=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Randolph (Conductor) - Short Biography]
May 12, 2010 · He received his B.S. in 1936, and proceeded to get his Master of Arts degree at Teachers College, Columbia University in 1941. From 1943 to 1947 David Randolph was a Music Specialist (assistant director) for the United States Office of War Information.
URL: https://www.bach-cantatas.com/Bio/Randolph-David.htm

[David Randolph papers, 1943-2010 - NYPL Archives]
Randolph graduated from City College of New York with a bachelors degree in music in 1936, and in 1942 received a masters of arts degree from the Teacher's College at Columbia University.
URL: https://archives.nypl.org/mus/18559

[Randolph, David | Encyclopedia.com]
Randolph, DavidRandolph, David , American conductor; b. N.Y., Dec. 21, 1914. He studied at City Coll., N.Y. (B.S., 1936) and Teachers Coll., Columbia Univ. (M.A., 1941). From 1943 to 1947 he was asst. director of music of the U.S. Office of War Information. In 1943 he organized the Randolph Singers, which he conducted until 1972. In 1955 he founded the Masterwork Chorus and Orch., which he ...
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/arts/dictionaries-thesauruses-pictures-and-press-releases/randolph-david

[David Randolph - Freedom From Religion Foundation]
David Randolph On this date in 1914, composer David Randolph (né Rosenberg) was born in New York City. He held a bachelor's degree from the City College of New York and earned a master's in music education from Teachers College of Columbia University. During World War II, Randolph worked for the U.S. Office of War Information.
URL: https://ffrf.org/publications/day/david-randolph/

[David Randolph - Grokipedia]
He earned a bachelor's degree in music from the City College of New York in 1936 and a master's in arts from Teachers College, Columbia University, in 1942, ...
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/david_randolph


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Randolph (Conductor) - Short Biography] ---
| Born: December 21, 1914 - New York City, New York, USA Died: May 12, 2010 - Manhattan, New York City, New York, USA | | The American conductor and teacher, David Randolph, received his B.S. from the College of the City of New York, where he planned to be a physicist until meeting up with higher mathematics. Having scored in the 98th percentile on a musical aptitude test, he changed his major to music, which had always been one of his loves. He received his B.S. in 1936, and proceeded to get his Master of Arts degree at Teachers College, Columbia University in 1941. From 1943 to 1947 David Randolph was a Music Specialist (assistant director) for the United States Office of War Information. In 1947 he became the Music Annotator for the Columbia Broadcasting System, writing the broadcast scripts for concerts by the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra, and all other classical music presentations on the network. In 1946, he began a series of weekly broadcasts called "Music for the Connoisseur," later known as "The David Randolph Concerts," on New York City's radio station WNYC. For his fourth broadcast, on July 23, 1946, he surveyed the subject of "Humor in Music," thus "inventing" the type of radio broadcast devoted to a single musical subject with commentary. The broadcasts were later heard nationwide on the 72-station network of the National Association of Educational Broadcasters. These broadcasts, which won four Ohio State University Awards as "The best programs of music and commentary in the nation," continued for 33 years and resulted in invitations from 23 publishers to write a book. His book, This Is Music, was described by The New York Times as "One of the Best of the Year." He also edited The David Randolph Madrigal Series. In 1943 David Randolph organised his own five-voiced madrigal group, The Randolph Singers, which he conducted until 1972. They toured, gave concerts in Town Hall, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, and Carnegie Recital Hall, made many recordings, and was the subject of a full two-hour "Today" show on NBC-TV. In 1948, Randolph married the contralto of the group, Mildred Greenberg, who can be seen in the center box at all of his Carnegie Hall concerts. He was the host of the program "Lincoln Center Spotlight," heard weekly on radio station WQXR; host for "Young Audiences," a series of 39 programs on the CBS Television network; and appeared as a guest on the Metropolitan Opera Intermission broadcasts. He has been a regular guest critic on WQXR's "First Hearing." David Randolph was the conductor of the original Masterwork Chorus & Orchestra from its founding in 1955 until his resignation on January 1, 1993. With them, he developed a specialty as a conductor of George Frideric Handel's Messiah. His much-acclaimed interpretation of that beloved masterpiece became a seasonal tradition in New York City, eventually resulting in as many as seven sold-out performances a season and a world record. Since 1965 he has been the conductor of The St. Cecilia Chorus and Orchestra. From 1981 he also led the Masterwork Chamber Orchestra. His 1997 Carnegie Hall performances with The St. Cecilia Chorus and Orchestra brought that record number to 170 performances. David Randolph taught conducting at the Dalcroze School (1947-1950), was professor of music at the State University of New York College at New Paltz (1970-1972), at Fordham University (1972-1973), and at Montclair State College (from 1973). |


--- [David Randolph papers, 1943-2010 - NYPL Archives] ---
Scope and arrangement The David Randolph papers consists of letters, diaries, writings, concert programs, photographs, and annotated scores documenting Randolph’s career as a choral conductor, radio host, and music educator. The collection contains information on Randolph’s personal and professional life; his intellectual output, including drafts of articles, reviews, and his music appreciation book This is Music; and his conducting methods and performance decisions. Inquiries regarding audio materials in the collection may be directed to the Rodgers and Hammerstein Archives of Recorded Sound (rha@nypl.org). Audio materials will be subject to preservation evaluation and migration prior to access. The David Randolph papers are arranged in nine series: - 1931-2010 The Biographical Documents series is comprised of Randolph’s curriculum vitae, various biographical write-ups, genealogical notes, personal interest newspaper stories concerning Randolph, and official certificates of achievement and diplomas. Arranged alphabetically. - 1946-2010 The Correspondence series contains private and business letters, the bulk of which are from family members (primarily Stanley, Isaac, and Vivian Rosenberg), colleagues, and acquaintances. Many letters are “testimonials” from audience and chorus members that discuss Randolph’s musical performances, radio program, and his impact on their appreciation of musical. Also present are communications concerning performances, lectures, and publishing, including letters from Carnegie Hall, Avery Fisher Hall, The St. Cecilia Chorus, the Masterwork Chorus, the Griffith Music Foundation, MidAmerican Productions, Mohonk Mountain House, and various institutions of higher education. Most of the letters written by Randolph are photocopies of originals written in the 1990s and 2000s, including emails to The St. Cecilia Chorus sent at the end of his life. Notable contributors include: Leonard Bernstein, Aaron Copland, Vernon Duke, Clifton Fadiman, Howard Hanson, Doris Humphrey, Harrison Kerr, Ernest Lubin, Tad Mosel, Walter Wehle Naumburg, Sam Norkin, Tony Randall, Lynn Redgrave, Klaus George Roy, William Schuman, Robert Haven Schauffler, Deems Taylor, Alec Templeton, Ralph Vaughan Williams, and Edgard Varese, among others. The bulk of these letters date from the 1950s and 1960s and are notes regarding concerts, radio shows, opinions on music and specific performances, and social pleasantries. Also of interest are letters between Randolph and Neurologist Oliver Sacks, who used Randolph as an example of a musician who had stayed active and agile into his 90s (2007-2008). Arranged into folders by decade with some contributor folders at the end arranged alphabetically. - 1943-2010 The Diaries series is comprised of 67 volumes (1943-2010) that contain daily entries noting Randolph’s professional and personal activities. Entries are brief. They include notes on appointments, deadlines, accomplishments, birthdays, anniversaries, and activities for the day. Occasionally they feature dramatic events in world news. The 1980 volume is missing and in its place is Randolph’s appointment calendar for that year. Arranged chronologically. - 1950-2009 The Writings series (1950-2009) consists of drafts, notes, and published clippings of magazine articles; reviews; lectures and speeches; performance notes; musical compositions and exercises; record liner notes; scripts for radio programs, LPs, and Films; and miscellaneous writings by Randolph from throughout his career. This series is arranged into 8 subseries with each organized alphabetically by folder title with general writings at the beginning. - 1954-1962 The Ledger series is made up of two volumes that document Randolph’s personal finances from 1954-1962. Randolph recorded deposits, withdrawals, and loans, and noted the purpose for each transaction. - 1945-2007 The Concert Programs series consists of material related to Randolph’s public performances as a singer, conductor, and lecturer. Programs list the date and location of performances, performers, and notes on the featured works. Some of the programs contain program notes written by Randolph. - 1947-2005 The Reviews and Publicity series contains newspaper and magazine reviews of Randolph performances, radio shows, lectures, and his book This Is Music. These clippings span Randolph’s entire career. - 1957-1999 The Photographs series is comprised of 35 images spanning 1957-1999. The bulk of these are portraits of Randolph, including publicity shots and photographs of him during concerts and rehearsals. Of note are two color photographs of the Randolph Singers dressed in 18th century costume for a performance at the Governor’s Palace in Williamsburg, Virginia (October 16, 1958); 16 black and white photographs of a St. Cecilia Chorus dress rehearsal at Carnegie Hall (December 16, 1973); and 5 color photographs of Randolph conducting The St. Cecilia Chorus performance of the Berlioz Requiem at Carnegie Hall (May 10, 1991). - undated The Scores series consists of 248 scores that Randolph used for performances throughout his career. These scores are extensively annotated and contain markings and notes regarding interpretation, errata, performers, and performance dates and venues. Many scores hold inserted printed concert programs from Randolph’s performances of the work. Score types include published and photocopied versions of full orchestral scores and piano vocal scores. The bulk of the pieces are for chorus and orchestra and span the standard chorus repertoire (Bach, Beethoven, Berlioz, Handel, Hayden, Mozart, and Vivaldi) along with American and European 20th Century compositions (Bernstein, Britten, Giannini, Stravinsky, and Vaughan Williams). The performance markings provide insights into Randolph’s musical decision making process. Of note are three heavily used copies of Handel’s Messiah.


--- [Randolph, David | Encyclopedia.com] ---
Randolph, David Randolph, David Randolph, David , American conductor; b. N.Y., Dec. 21, 1914. He studied at City Coll., N.Y. (B.S., 1936) and Teachers Coll., Columbia Univ. (M.A., 1941). From 1943 to 1947 he was asst. director of music of the U.S. Office of War Information. In 1943 he organized the Randolph Singers, which he conducted until 1972. In 1955 he founded the Masterwork Chorus and Orch., which he conducted until 1972 also led the . In Chorus and Orch. and, from 1981, the Masterwork Chamber Orch. He taught conducting at the Dalcroze School (1947–50); was a prof. of music at the State Univ. of N.Y. Coll. at New Paltz (1970–72), at Fordham Univ. (1972–73), and at Montclair State Coll. (from 1973). He was also active as a radio music commentator. He publ. the book This Is Music (N.Y., 1964), and also ed. The David Randolph Madrigal Series. —Nicolas Slonimsky/Laura Kuhn/Dennis McIntire


--- [David Randolph - Freedom From Religion Foundation] ---
On this date in 1914, composer David Randolph (né Rosenberg) was born in New York City. He held a bachelor’s degree from the City College of New York and earned a master’s in music education from Teachers College of Columbia University. During World War II, Randolph worked for the U.S. Office of War Information. In 1947, CBS hired him to script classical radio broadcasts. He founded a madrigal group, the Randolph Singers, which performed widely and in 1948 he married Mildred Greenberg, an alto in the choir. His sonorous baritone was known to listeners of the weekly classical music program “Music for the Connoisseur” on WNYC. The program, later called “The David Randolph Concerts,” ran for more than 30 years starting in 1946. He wrote the well-received This is Music: A Guide to the Pleasure of Listening (1964). The New York Times published a lengthy obituary in 2010 noting that Randolph’s performances of Handel’s “Messiah” (at least 170 full performances with two different choruses) were a mainstay of New York’s holiday season. Randolph remarked at a 2009 luncheon in his honor in New York City, hosted by FFRF Co-Presidents Dan Barker and Annie Laurie Gaylor: “A couple of months ago I had the pleasure of appearing on the Freethought Radio program with Dan and Annie Laurie, and Annie Laurie said to me, ‘How can you as an atheist conduct Handel’s Messiah?’ My answer was this: Suppose Dan were engaged as an actor to play the role of Iago in Shakespeare’s ‘Othello,’ admittedly one of the most vicious and horrible people in the world. Would he be able to do it? Yes. Does he have to be vicious and horrible? No, not at all.” “There was no such thing as ‘religious’ music, Randolph felt. … There was only music put to different uses, in different contexts,” wrote Oliver Sacks. (The Paris Review Daily, Dec. 21, 2010) “He would mention [this] when conducting his favorite Requiem Masses by Brahms, Verdi or Berlioz — all of whom, he would remind the audience, were atheists (as he himself was). Randolph was the original music director of the Masterwork Chorus, a high-level amateur group he led through 37 seasons before stepping down in 1992. He began directing the St. Cecilia Chorus in Manhattan in 1965 (entirely secular despite the inherited name), featuring works by freethought composers. Randolph retired from the post the Sunday before his death at age 95 from complications of pneumonia and cancer. (D. 2010)


--- [David Randolph - Grokipedia] ---
David Randolph (December 21, 1914 – May 12, 2010) was an American conductor, music educator, radio host, and author best known for his decades-long leadership of prominent New York choral ensembles and his influential broadcasting career in classical music.[1] Born David Rosenberg in Manhattan to Jewish parents, he adopted the surname Randolph after high school and built a multifaceted career that spanned performance, education, and media, conducting over 170 performances of Handel's Messiah alone and fostering appreciation for choral music through innovative programs and recordings.[1] His work with groups like the Masterwork Chorus and the St. Cecilia Chorus established him as a cornerstone of the city's classical music scene, while his radio shows and teaching roles extended his impact nationwide.[1]Randolph's early career included service as a music specialist for the U.S. Office of War Information from 1943 to 1947, during which he founded the professional chamber ensemble the Randolph Singers, active until 1972 and noted for its recordings and performances across the U.S. and Europe.[1] He earned a bachelor's degree in music from the City College of New York in 1936 and a master's in arts from Teachers College, Columbia University, in 1942, later teaching at institutions such as Montclair State University, Fordham University, and The New School.[1] From the 1940s onward, Randolph hosted the WNYC radio program Music for the Connoisseur (later The David Randolph Concerts) for 33 years, scripting broadcasts that introduced listeners to lesser-known works and earning him a reputation as an accessible advocate for classical music.[1]In 1955, he co-founded and became the inaugural music director of the Masterwork Chorus and Orchestra, leading it until 1992 and performing frequently at venues like Carnegie Hall and Avery Fisher Hall.[1] Randolph assumed directorship of the St. Cecilia Chorus in 1965, guiding it until his death and expanding its outreach through educational initiatives like the St. Cecilia Chorus Outreach program.[1] He authored the book This Is Music: A Guide to the Pleasures of Listening in 1964, aimed at broadening public engagement with music appreciation.[1] Among his honors were honorary doctorates from the College of Staten Island and Saint Peter’s College, as well as the Townsend Harris Medal from the City College of New York for distinguished service.[1] Randolph, married to soprano Mildred Greenberg from 1948 until her death in 2008, passed away in Manhattan from complications of pneumonia.[1] Early Life and Education Childhood and Family Background David Randolph was born David Rosenberg on December 21, 1914, in Manhattan, New York City, to parents Morris Rosenberg (born circa 1892) and Elsie Goodman (1893–1979).[1]His family belonged to New York's Jewish community, many members of which were recent immigrants or descendants of immigrants from Eastern Europe, contributing to the city's rich cultural mosaic in the early 20th century. Growing up amid this urban immigrant environment, Randolph encountered diverse artistic influences that sparked his early fascination with music, including classical compositions, though specific family anecdotes about these beginnings remain sparsely documented in available records.[1] Name Change and Formal Education Born David Rosenberg in Manhattan, New York, on December 21, 1914, he adopted the surname Randolph shortly after graduating from high school in the city, marking a pivotal step toward his professional identity in music.[1] This name change occurred as he transitioned from adolescence into adulthood amid the evolving cultural environment of mid-20th-century America.[2]Randolph's formal education was centered in New York institutions, beginning with high school completion before pursuing higher studies in music. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree in music from City College of New York in 1936, followed by a Master of Arts in music education from Teachers College, Columbia University in 1942.[1][2] While his academic training provided a structured foundation, Randolph supplemented this with informal musical experiences, including self-directed study and participation in local ensembles during his formative years.Post-graduation, Randolph's early career steps immersed him in New York's vibrant music community, laying the groundwork for his later prominence. In the early 1940s, he founded the Randolph Singers, a madrigal group that performed at key venues like Town Hall and Carnegie Recital Hall, fostering his skills in choral direction and performance before assuming more significant leadership roles.[2] These initial endeavors highlighted his emerging talent and commitment to choral music within the city's cultural landscape. Professional Career Conducting Roles David Randolph co-founded the Masterwork Chorus and Orchestra in 1955 and served as its inaugural music director until 1992, leading the ensemble in frequent performances at venues such as Carnegie Hall and Avery Fisher Hall.[1] Under his direction, the group became known for its interpretations of large-scale choral-orchestral works, including over 160 performances of Handel's Messiah alone.[3]Earlier in his career, Randolph founded the professional chamber ensemble the Randolph Singers during his service with the U.S. Office of War Information from 1943 to 1947; the group remained active until 1972, gaining recognition for its recordings and performances across the United States and Europe.[1]David Randolph was appointed music director of the St. Cecilia Chorus in 1965, a position he held until 2010, marking a 45-year tenure that solidified his reputation as a leading figure in New York City's choral music scene.[1] Under his leadership, the ensemble, later renamed the Cecilia Chorus of New York, became renowned for its performances of large-scale choral-orchestral works at venues like Carnegie Hall.[4]Randolph's programming emphasized annual traditions tied to the liturgical calendar, including Handel's Christmas Oratorio during the holiday season, Bach's St. John Passion and St. Matthew Passion around Easter, and Requiem Masses by composers such as Brahms (Ein Deutsches Requiem), Verdi, and Berlioz (Grande Messe des Morts).[4] These works were performed repeatedly over the decades—for instance, Handel's Christmas Oratorio appeared in multiple December concerts from 1973 to 2007, while Brahms's Requiem was featured in spring seasons like 1976, 1989, and 2005.[4] Verdi's Requiem and Berlioz's were similarly staples, with the former conducted at Carnegie Hall in 1993, 2003, and 2008, and the latter in 1991 and 1996, showcasing Randolph's commitment to blending sacred and dramatic repertoires.[4]His conducting approach integrated historical and cultural context to deepen performers' and audiences' understanding, often highlighting the secular influences in sacred music. For example, Randolph noted that Handel incorporated melodies from bawdy Italian love songs into pieces like the Messiah, underscoring music's universal, non-sectarian essence beyond religious labels.[5] This perspective informed his rehearsals and program notes, fostering performances that balanced technical precision with interpretive insight.[2] Radio Hosting and Broadcasting David Randolph began his radio career in 1946 as the host of Music for the Connoisseur on WNYC, a weekly program dedicated to classical music selections "off the beaten path," accompanied by accessible commentary designed for listeners of all levels.[6] The show premiered on July 2, 1946, and quickly established Randolph as a pioneering figure in classical broadcasting, with his fourth episode exploring humor in music as an early example of thematic formatting.[6] Over its 33-year run, the program evolved and was renamed The David Randolph Concerts in response to persistent mispronunciations of the original title by civil service announcers, a change Randolph announced on air to ensure clarity.[6]Randolph's broadcasts were nationally syndicated across the United States through the 72-station network of the National Association of Educational Broadcasters (NAEB), extending their reach far beyond New York.[6] He earned recognition as the "father of weekly thematic music programming" in classical radio for introducing structured, educational episodes that delved into specific musical themes, emphasizing the human and contextual elements of compositions.[6] The program received four Ohio State University Awards for excellence in music and commentary, underscoring its innovative approach.[6]Central to Randolph's broadcasting techniques were thematic episodes that examined composers' lives, historical contexts, and the broader appeal of music to evoke emotional and intellectual responses.[6] For instance, the 375th episode in June 1954 focused on "Composers' Senses of Humor," illustrating how he wove narrative insights with musical selections to help audiences grasp the "why" behind their enjoyment of great works.[6] This method not only educated listeners but also fostered a deeper appreciation, as evidenced by fan correspondence praising Randolph's gentle wit and ability to reveal the beauty, majesty, and power in classical repertoire.[6] Music Education Contributions David Randolph was actively involved in New York City's classical music community as an educator, teaching at institutions such as Montclair State University, Fordham University, and The New School, while also delivering lectures at academic venues and concert halls nationwide.[1] His pedagogical efforts emphasized making classical music accessible to broader audiences, drawing on his experience in conducting and broadcasting to simplify complex compositions through structured teaching.[1] For instance, in 1964, he published This Is Music: A Guide to the Pleasures of Listening, a book designed to enhance public appreciation of orchestral and choral works by explaining musical forms and historical contexts in an approachable manner.[7]Randolph conducted numerous workshops and lectures focused on music appreciation, covering topics such as the logic of musical forms, humor in music, folk influences, and whether music can convey narratives.[1] These sessions, documented in drafts and notes from the 1940s to 2010, were presented at diverse settings including New York University courses (1948–1969), Town Hall Theatre (1955–1960), and the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences (1960), as well as to organizations like IBM and the New Jersey Arts Study Group (1965).[1] He also led choral seminars at Mohonk Mountain House from 1986 to 1995, where participants engaged in hands-on exploration of works like J.S. Bach's Mass in B Minor.[1]Through his long tenure as music director of the St. Cecilia Chorus from 1965 to 2010, Randolph mentored younger musicians and choristers, fostering talent development via rigorous rehearsals and performance preparation.[1] Correspondence and testimonials from chorus members highlight his influence in deepening their understanding and commitment to choral music, with annotated scores of key works like Handel's Messiah serving as tools for instruction during ensemble sessions.[1] Additionally, he contributed to community outreach through the St. Cecilia Chorus Educational Outreach Program and The Masterwork School, initiatives that extended educational opportunities beyond professional performers to diverse local audiences.[1] Musical Philosophy and Works Views on Music's Universal Nature David Randolph held that music transcends religious, military, or romantic categorizations, embodying the universal human spirit independent of dogma or context. He argued there is no inherently "religious music," only music paired with religious texts, as without words, its intent remains ambiguous and applicable to secular purposes. This philosophy, articulated in his book This Is Music: A Guide to the Pleasure of Listening, posits that labels like "religious" or "patriotic" are meaningless, with music's power deriving from its emotional depth rather than prescribed uses.[5][3]Randolph illustrated this belief through examples of atheist composers creating profound works traditionally seen as sacred, demonstrating music's secular essence. Johannes Brahms, an avowed atheist, composed his German Requiem not as a religious tribute but as a "requiem for humanity," selecting biblical texts solely for their musical utility and omitting references to Christ. Similarly, Hector Berlioz, who felt "cold" and "icy" toward the Requiem text, produced a monumental work requiring vast forces, while Giuseppe Verdi, who dismissed divine creations as "crazy," crafted his Requiem from secular inspirations like bawdy Italian love songs. Randolph contrasted these masterpieces with lesser efforts by devout believers, emphasizing that compositional skill, not faith, yields greatness.[3][5]Neurologist Oliver Sacks praised Randolph's eloquent discussions of music's emotional and secular depth, noting his conviction that the "religious imagination... was a most precious part of the human spirit, but... did not require particular religious beliefs, or indeed any religious belief." As a lifelong atheist himself, Randolph applied this philosophy in his conducting and broadcasting, treating sacred works like scripted roles in acting—conducting the joyous resurrection sections of Handel's Messiah with exuberance despite personal disbelief, and interpreting "Hallelujah" as akin to "Whoopee" for lively delivery. In performances, such as his annual Brahms Requiem with the Cecilia Chorus, he highlighted ironic secular elements, like organists substituting profane pieces during rituals without detection, underscoring texts' role in perceived religiosity. On broadcasts like Freethought Radio, he discussed these views openly, advocating for music's atheistic potential amid growing secular acceptance.[5][3] Publications and Performances David Randolph authored the book This Is Music: A Guide to the Pleasure of Listening, published in 1964 by McGraw-Hill Book Company, which serves as a practical extension of his belief in music's universal accessibility.[5][8] In the book, Randolph provides listening advice drawn from historical anecdotes, emphasizing how music transcends rigid categories like "religious" or "secular," and instead gains meaning through context and use; for instance, he highlights George Frideric Handel's incorporation of bawdy Italian love songs—secular tunes of the era—into sacred oratorios such as Messiah, illustrating music's adaptable, human essence.[5] This work, praised for its eloquence and approachability, underscores Randolph's philosophy that all music invites pleasure through informed engagement, without requiring specialized knowledge.[5]Randolph's performance repertoire, particularly with the St. Cecilia Chorus of New York, which he directed from 1965 until 2010, featured signature interpretations of major oratorios that blended educational depth with engaging presentation.[5] He conducted Handel's Messiah at least 170 times, including annual performances at Carnegie Hall starting in 1965, where he prefaced each with spoken introductions explaining historical contexts, such as Handel's reuse of secular melodies to enhance sacred narratives, thereby demystifying the work for audiences.[9][5] Similarly, his annual renditions of Bach's Christmas Oratorio and Easter Passions, along with Requiems by composers like Johannes Brahms, Giuseppe Verdi, and Hector Berlioz—figures Randolph noted as atheists—showcased thematic programming that highlighted music's emotional power irrespective of doctrinal ties.[5]Through these selections, Randolph influenced choral programming by integrating thematic curation with live commentary, creating performances that educated while entertaining and reinforcing music's role as a shared human experience rather than a confined genre.[5] His approach, evident in over four decades of leadership with the chorus, fostered audiences' appreciation by weaving historical insights—like the secular origins in Handel's oratorios—into dynamic executions that balanced gravitas with spontaneity.[5] Death and Legacy Final Years and Death In his final years, David Randolph remained actively engaged in music despite advancing age, continuing to lead the St. Cecilia Chorus, where he had served as music director since 1965, until his retirement just days before his death.[2] His enduring passion for choral conducting was evident in his vigorous participation in rehearsals and performances, reflecting a lifetime commitment to fostering amateur musicianship in New York City's vibrant scene.[10]On March 25, 2010, Randolph participated in a 100-minute video oral history interview conducted by the Rodgers and Hammerstein Archives of Recorded Sound at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, in conversation with interviewer Gerald Greland.[10] Described as vibrant and reflective at age 95, he shared insights into his extensive career, marking this as his final major public reflection on a life dedicated to music education, broadcasting, and performance.[11] The interview, preserved in its entirety online, captured his philosophical views on music's universal accessibility shortly before his health began to decline.[10]Randolph passed away on May 12, 2010, at his home in Manhattan, New York, at the age of 95, from complications of pneumonia.[2] His death came mere weeks after the oral history session and following his retirement from the St. Cecilia Chorus on May 9, 2010, closing a chapter defined by unwavering dedication to choral artistry until the very end.[10] Archives and Lasting Impact The David Randolph papers, held in the Music Division of the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, encompass a comprehensive archive spanning 1943 to 2010 that documents his multifaceted career as a conductor, radio host, and educator. This collection includes personal correspondence, 67 volumes of diaries detailing daily professional activities, drafts of writings such as radio scripts and lectures, concert programs from venues like Carnegie Hall, annotated scores of major choral works (including multiple editions of Handel's Messiah), photographs of rehearsals and performances, and ledgers tracking personal finances. Complementing these materials are the related St. Cecilia Chorus Collection of Sound Recordings, which preserves live audio captures of performances conducted by Randolph starting from 1967, offering insight into his interpretive approaches to choral repertoire. Additionally, a 2010 oral history interview with Randolph, conducted by Gerald Greland and videotaped at the NYPL's Oral History Studio, provides a firsthand account of his life and contributions, recorded just weeks before his death.[1][11]Randolph is recognized as a pivotal figure in New York's performing arts scene, particularly for his enduring influence on choral traditions and innovative thematic radio programming. His leadership of ensembles like the Masterwork Chorus and St. Cecilia Chorus elevated standards in amateur choral performance, earning him a place in the Guinness Book of World Records for conducting the most complete renditions of Handel's Messiah. In broadcasting, he pioneered weekly thematic formats on WNYC's Music for the Connoisseur (later The David Randolph Concert), which ran for 33 years from 1946 and was syndicated nationally via the National Association of Educational Broadcasters network, winning four Ohio State University Awards for excellence in music and commentary. This approach, blending curated selections with accessible narration, shaped public engagement with classical music and inspired similar programs on stations like WQXR.[6][1]Randolph's legacy persists through the ongoing activities of the Cecilia Chorus of New York—formerly the St. Cecilia Chorus under his direction from 1965 to 2010—which continues to perform major works at Carnegie Hall and fosters community choral singing. The chorus established a memorial lecture series in his honor, beginning in 2013, to celebrate his educational vision. His syndicated broadcasts and archived recordings remain valuable resources for music education, influencing generations of listeners and performers by promoting thoughtful exploration of classical repertoire beyond mainstream favorites. The New York Choral Consortium has hailed him as a mentor whose work strengthened the city's choral community.[12][13][14]
