=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Marina Abramović - Wikipedia]
In her first performance in Edinburgh in 1973, [19] Abramović explored elements of ritual and gesture. Making use of ten knives and two tape recorders, the artist played the Russian game, in which rhythmic knife jabs are aimed between the splayed fingers of one's hand, the title of the piece getting its name from the number of knives used.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marina_Abramovi%C4%87

[Rhythm 10, 1973 | 50 Years | Lisson Gallery]
Rhythm 10 was first performed by Marina Abramović in Edinburgh in 1973 as part of her Rhythm series. The following year, she performed Rhythm 0 (1974), in which she offered herself as an object of experimentation for the audience, as well as Rhythm 5 (1974), where she lay in the centre of a burning five-point star to the point of losing ...
URL: https://www.lissongallery.com/about/confession

[How Marina Abramović 'found' her medium in Scotland | News & Press]
For Abramović, the Edinburgh Festival consolidated her newfound status as a performance artist as well as sparking a chain of connections with Scotland-based galleries and curators. Marina Abramović, The House with the Ocean View, 2002. Performance; 12 days. Sean Kelly Gallery, New York.
URL: https://flemingcollection.com/scottish_art_news/news-press/how-marina-abramovic-found-her-medium-in-scotland

[Marina Abramović HRSA - Biography | Royal Scottish Academy]
Marina Abramovic is the leading performance artists of the later 20 Th and early 21 st Centuries. Her emergence in international consciousness may be less well known, however, in 1973, she was invited to Edinburgh by Richard Demarco HRSA, to take part in the Edinburgh Festival through his exhibition Eight Yugoslav Artists.
URL: https://www.royalscottishacademy.org/artists/1109-marina-abramovic-hrsa/biography/

[Marina Abramović | Performative - - Viewing Room - Sean Kelly Gallery ...]
Apr 16, 2022 · Marina Abramović, Rhythm 10, 1973, Performance in Edinburgh. Image courtesy of the Marina Abramović archives. From the beginning of her career in Belgrade in the early 1970s, Marina Abramović has pioneered performance as a visual art form.
URL: https://seankelly-viewingroom.exhibit-e.art/viewing-room/marina-abramovic-performative


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Marina Abramović - Wikipedia] ---
Marina Abramović (Serbian Cyrillic: Марина Абрамовић, pronounced [marǐːna abrǎːmovitɕ]; born November 30, 1946) is a Serbian conceptual and performance artist. Her work explores body art, endurance art, the relationship between the performer and audience, the limits of the body, and the possibilities of the mind. Being active for over four decades, Abramović refers to herself as the "grandmother of performance art". She pioneered a new notion of artistic identity by bringing in the participation of observers, focusing on "confronting pain, blood, and physical limits of the body". In 2007, she founded the Marina Abramović Institute (MAI), a non-profit foundation for performance art.




--- [Rhythm 10, 1973 | 50 Years | Lisson Gallery] ---
Marina Abramović, 1973 Rhythm 10 was first performed by Marina Abramović in Edinburgh in 1973 as part of her Rhythm series. The following year, she performed Rhythm 0 (1974), in which she offered herself as an object of experimentation for the audience, as well as Rhythm 5 (1974), where she lay in the centre of a burning five-point star to the point of losing consciousness. Abramović joined Lisson Gallery in 2010, when a retrospective of her career was shown at the gallery, including the Rhythm series. Recalling the making of Abramović comments: "the idea of death terrifies me. When there is turbulence on an airplane, I shake with fear. I start composing my last will and testament. But when it comes to my work, I cast caution to the winds. That is how I felt about Rhythm 10, the piece I planned to perform at Edinburgh. Rhythm 10 was absolutely crazy, It was based on a drinking game played by Russian and Yugoslav peasants: you spread your fingers out on a wooden bar or table and stab down a sharp knife, fast, in the spaces between your fingers. Every time you miss and cut yourself, you have to take another drink. The drunker you get, the more likely you are to stab yourself. Like Russian roulette, it is a game of bravery and foolishness and despair and darkness – the perfect Slavic game. Beforehand, I was so nervous that I was scared I’d get one of my incapacitating whole-body migraines. I could hardly breathe from the idea that I was going to do this. But I was also serious about what I was about to do, 100 per cent committed. I was so serious about everything then! Yet I think I needed this gravity. Much later on, I read a statement of Bruce Nauman’s: 'Art is a matter of life and death.' It sounds melodramatic, but it’s so true. This was exactly how it was for me, even at the beginning. Art was life and death. There was nothing else. It was so serious, and so necessary. My variation on the game involved not one but ten knives, and sound, and a new idea: turning accidents into the plan for a piece of performance art. On the floor of the gymnasium of Melville College – one of the sites of the festival – I unrolled a big sheet of heavy white paper. On this paper I arranged ten knives of various sizes and two tape recorders. Then, with a big crowd watching – including Joseph Beuys at the front, in his little grey fedora – I knelt down on the paper and turned on one of the tape recorders. I had been terrified beforehand, but the second I began, my fear evaporated. The space I occupied was safe. Rat-tat-tat-tat-tat – I stabbed the knife down between the fingers of my left hand, and fast as I could. And of course because I was going so fast, every once in a while I would miss, just slightly, and nick myself. Each time I cut myself, I would groan with pain – the tape recorder would pick it up – and I would switch to the next knife. Pretty soon I had gone through all ten knives, and the white paper was stained very impressively with my blood. The crowd, including Beuys, stared, dead silent. And a very strange feeling came over me, something I had never dreamed of: it was as if electricity was running through my body, and the audience and I had become one. A single organism. The sense of danger in the room had united the onlookers and me in that moment: the here and now, and nowhere else. That thing that each of us loves with, that you are your own little self privately – once you step into the performance space, you are acting from a higher self, and it’s not you anymore. It’s not the you that you know. It’s something else. There on the gymnasium floor of Melville College in Edinburgh, Scotland, it was as if I had become, at the same time, a receiver and transmitter of huge, Tesla-like energy. The fear was gone, the pain was gone. I had become a Marina whom I didn’t know yet." - Marina Abramović, Walk Through Walls, A Memoir, 2016


--- [How Marina Abramović 'found' her medium in Scotland | News & Press] ---
Fifty years ago, the Serbian performance artist Marina Abramović ‘found’ her medium in Scotland. At the invitation of curator Richard Demarco, Abramović debuted ‘Rhythm 10’ at the Edinburgh Festival 1973. Prior to this, she experimented with an array of mediums, including sound installations which peripherally involved her body, but she lauds ‘Rhythm 10’ as her first ever body-based performance. An opportunity for radical collaboration and artistic exchange, the Edinburgh Festival 1973 supported several avant-garde artists from overseas to present wild new ideas and works in Scotland’s capital. For Abramović, the Edinburgh Festival consolidated her newfound status as a performance artist as well as sparking a chain of connections with Scotland-based galleries and curators. Setting her career alight, ‘Rhythm 10’ took inspiration from a drinking game played by Russian and Yugoslav peasants, ‘Rhythm 10’ is a mediation on gesture and endurance, courage and recklessness. It entailed Abramović rhythmically jabbing a knife between her splayed fingers while recording the action. Each time she missed the gap and cut her skin, she picked up a new knife from a row of ten and went again while playing the recording back to herself. When asked about the effect this had on him as a viewer, Demarco described the ‘upsetting’ sight of streaks of blood on stark white paper. On finding her medium in ‘Rhythm 10’, Abramović reflected in her bestselling memoir, ‘Walk Through Walls’ (2016): ‘No painting, no object that I could make, could ever give me that kind of feeling, and it was a feeling I knew I would have to seek out, again and again and again’. She sought that feeling of pure, unadulterated adrenaline both within and outside Scotland – again and again and again. Two years later, Abramović accepted Demarco’s invitation to return to Scotland, this time to participate in ‘Aspects ’75’, an exhibition of contemporary Yugoslav art, at The Fruitmarket Gallery in Edinburgh. There, she performed ‘Hot/Cold’ (1975). This piece saw Abramović seated at a table resting her hands on a thin sheet of glass covering a slab of ice while a scorching radiator dangled above. The artist shattered the glass with her bare hands, suffering cuts and second degree burns due to the dangerous combination of extreme heat and extreme cold. The audience, meanwhile, were tortuously locked into a strange dynamic between artist-turned-patient and their own morality: should they provide medical attention or silently endure the performance? According to Dr June Geddes’ research, Guardian art critic Cordelia Oliver could not resist an intervention. Although this is peculiarly omitted from Oliver’s exhibition review, Demarco testifies that the critic interrupted the performance, shouting: “I can’t stand it any longer, switch that bloody fire off.” Geddes subsequently heard another account that Oliver pulled the plug on the radiator, corroborating Demarco’s observations. Through the transfixing testimonies and bizarre anecdotes swapped between audience members and curators, Abramović’s performances in Scotland take on a mythical status. The festival ‘Edge ’90’ brought Abramović to Scotland once again – this time to Glasgow’s The Third Eye Centre. There, she enacted ‘Boat Emptying, Stream Entering’, a performance which marked her return to solo work after a psychic split from her artistic and romantic partner, Ulay. According to ‘Edge ’90’ organiser Nicola White, Abramović planned for five pythons (representing the five elements) to crawl over her body while encircled by ice. However, one python, named Solomon, mysteriously escaped before showtime, and remained lost for almost a year in the building. Another rogue python zoomed past the audience and towards the fire escape; fortunately, it was deftly captured by a snake handler. Uniquely, the full story of Solomon’s escape was published by the Dublin Review in 2017, but beyond White’s account, it otherwise remains imbued with anecdotal mystery. Five decades have passed since Abramović ‘found’ her medium and presented it to the art world in the Edinburgh Festival. As the first woman artist to occupy the Royal Academy’s main gallery space in a major retrospective, the remarkable trajectory of Abramović’s career, along with the evolution of her artistic method, is ripe for critique. In a contemporary culture where duty of care (for both audiences and performers) is continuously under reflection, radical body art such as ‘Rhythm 10’ would struggle to pass the curatorial risk assessments; instead, her first body-based performance will be celebrated through photographs in the exhibition. In combination, ‘Rhythm 10’, ‘Hot/Cold’ and ‘Boat Emptying, Stream Entering’ were violent actions which presented unique and unknowable risks. Needless to say, there will be no runaway pythons or second degree burns at the Royal Academy, but live performance will still take centre stage as four of her actions will be reperformed by artists trained by the Marina Abramović Institute. In dialogue with Abramović’s volatile performances which found her fame in the twentieth century, this retrospective offers an opportunity to consider what might be lost or gained through reproduced versions of the original actions without the artist present. Marina Abramović’s retrospective at the Royal Academy, London, is exhibited until 1st January 2024


--- [Marina Abramović HRSA - Biography | Royal Scottish Academy] ---
Marina Abramovic is the leading performance artists of the later 20Th and early 21st Centuries. Her emergence in international consciousness may be less well known, however, in 1973, she was invited to Edinburgh by Richard Demarco HRSA, to take part in the Edinburgh Festival through his exhibition Eight Yugoslav Artists. The premier of her seminal performance Rhythm 10, took place in Melville College before an international audience, including Joseph Beuys, who was subsequently instrumental in introducing her to galleries across Europe. Demarco built on the success of this exhibition with the more extensive Aspects 75 at the Scottish Arts Council’s Fruitmarket Gallery, at which Abramovic performed the punishing Warm/Cold, again during the official Festival. This exhibition toured to five further venues in England and Ireland culminating at Glasgow’s Third Eye Centre. Both of the above performances were included as photographic and filmed documentation in the exhibition 10 Dialogues: Richard Demarco, Scotland & The European Avant Garde, presented by the RSA in celebration of Richard Demarco’s 80th birthday in 2010. Abramovic was one of six European artists who Demarco had brought to Scotland along with four Scots presented by him in Europe. A further connection with the Academy is through Murray Grigor HRSA, who directed the film documenting one of Abramovic’s most ambitious projects in which she and her partner, Ulay, walked towards each other from opposite ends of the great wall of China with their marriage planned when at last they met. But instead this marked the end of their creative partnership and of their relationship.


--- [Marina Abramović | Performative - - Viewing Room - Sean Kelly Gallery ...] ---
March 4 - April 16, 2022 March 4 - April 16, 2022 Sean Kelly Gallery is delighted to announce Performative, Marina Abramović's ninth solo exhibition at the gallery. Presenting four distinct turning points in Abramović's five-decade career, the exhibition chronicles both the development of her oeuvre and how it has influenced performance art globally. This presentation features Abramović's iconic early performance, Rhythm 10, 1973, as well as her acclaimed 2010 MoMA performance, The Artist is Present, represented by a video installation. The public is invited to interact with a selection of Abramović's "transitory objects," in which natural materials transmit energy to the visitor. Finally, a screening of Abramović's latest film, Seven Deaths, is being shown for the first time in the United States. Together, these different bodies of work demonstrate how Abramović has shaped the trajectory of performance art over the last five decades and changed the public's perception of and interaction with this art form. Exhibition Film Rhythm 10 From the beginning of her career in Belgrade in the early 1970s, Marina Abramović has pioneered performance as a visual art form. It was at this time that she created some of the most important early works in her practice, including Rhythm 10, 1973. This piece documents the performance in which Abramović splayed her left hand on a large scroll of white paper and began to rhythmically stab the spaces between her fingers with a knife at increasing speed until she cut herself, paused, picked up a new knife, and resumed the performance. Accompanying the images will be the sound recording of the performance. Rhythm 10, marked a pivotal moment when Abramović first began to consider herself a performance artist. Rhythm 10: I place a white sheet of paper on the floor. I place 20 knives of different sizes and shapes on the paper. I place 2 tape recorders with microphones on the floor. Performance. I turn on the first tape recorder. I take the first knife and stab in between the fingers of my left hand as fast as possible. Every time I cut myself, I change the knife. When I’ve used all of the knives, (all the rhythms) I rewind the tape recorder. I listen to the recording of the first part of the performance. I concentrate. I repeat the first part of the performance. I take the knives in the same order, follow the same order, follow the same rhythm, and cut myself in the same places. In this performance the mistakes of time past and the time present are synchronized. I rewind the second tape recorder and listen to the double rhythm of the knives. I leave. Duration: 1 hour 1973 Museo d'Arte Contemporanea Villa Borghese, Rome. The first version of this performance (with 10 knives) was performed at the Edinburgh Festival, 1973. “This was the first time that I understood [the] energy of the audience, and how actually this energy, I could take and transmit it into my own and give it back. And it was the first time that I didn’t feel pain or any kind of discomfort doing it, that I understood that in performance my body is object and subject and I can push the limits in front of the public as far as I can, much more than if I would do in my own private life.” These first early solo performances pushed the boundaries of self-discovery, both for herself and her audience. They tested the limits of physical endurance, exploring ritual, gesture, even pain, to interrogate the parameters of art and challenge the fundamental relationship between performer and audience. The Artist Is Present Originally presented in 2010 at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, The Artist Is Present was inspired by Abramović’s belief that extending the length of a performance beyond expectations serves to alter our perception of time and foster a deeper engagement with the experience. Abramović sat silently at a wooden table across from an empty chair, as visitors to the museum were invited to take turns sitting across from her for eight hours a day, over nearly three months, totaling 716 and one half hours. All Images: Marina Abramović, The Artist Is Present, 2010, MoMA Performance. Photographs: Marco Anelli, Courtesy of the Marina Abramović Archives. This presentation includes a six-projection film documenting, in real time, the performance at MoMA. On the left wall are the faces of each of the individuals who took a seat opposite Abramović, while the right wall shows the artist's face in reaction to each participant. The rear wall features a monitor showing Abramović and visitors seated at the table together. Transitory Objects In 1988, after completing one of her more grueling durational performances in which she walked nearly 3,000 kilometers from one end of the Great Wall of China to its center point, Abramović began to create what she refers to as "transitory objects." In these works, the artist incorporated natural materials into interactive objects to transmit the various energy qualities of different minerals. This presentation includes four chairs, which incorporate different materials, and an installation of three Snowflake Obsidian "pillows." Visitors are invited to use these objects to become the performer, thus completing each piece. These works marked the first time the artist invited the public to participate directly in her practice. For additional information on Abramović's Transitory Objects, click here. “All the transitory objects have one thing in common: they do not exist on their own; the public must interact with them. Some objects are there to empty the viewer, some to give energy, and some to make a mental departure possible.” Seven Deaths For its New York premiere, Abramović’s cinematic film Seven Deaths, 2021, is being shown in the lower gallery. This one-hour, one-minute, and thirty-second performance is a continuation of the artist’s lifelong meditation on the female body as a source of both power and pain. Abramović turns her focus to renowned opera singer Maria Callas, whose stunning soprano voice captivated audiences around the world in the mid-20th century. In her film Seven Deaths, Abramović is joined by long-term collaborator, actor Willem Dafoe to illustrate seven of Maria Callas’ famous solo arias with an interpretive recreation of the protagonist’s death. The themes present in the film coincide with Abramović’s ambitious live action opera, 7 Deaths of Maria Callas, which premiered at the Bavarian State Opera in Munich in September 2021 and traveled to the Opéra National de Paris, and the Greek National Opera in Athens. In 2022, it will be performed at the Deutsche Oper Berlin (April 8-10) and Real Teatro San Carlo in Naples (May 13-15). Clip from Marina Abramović, Seven Deaths, 2021, color video, stereo sound, runtime: 61 min 30 sec, edition of 5 with 2 APs. Courtesy of the Marina Abramović Archives. Related Programming In Conversation: Marina Abramović and Glenn Lowry Sean Kelly, New York, New York Artist Marina Abramović and Sean Kelly have partnered with photographer Marco Anelli, leading online art marketplace Artsy, and Baobab Frames to help support the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine by hosting a benefit auction in which 100% of the proceeds will go to Direct Relief’s emergency response to aid Ukraine. The two lots will feature a unique opportunity to be photographed sitting with iconic performance artist Marina Abramović at Sean Kelly Gallery, New York, on Saturday, April 16, the final day of her current exhibition, Performative. The winning bidders will be photographed seated opposite Abramović in her installation of The Artist is Present, a six-projection film documenting, in real time, her historic 2010 performance at MoMA in which she sat silently in a chair as visitors to the museum took turns sitting across from her for eight hours a day, over nearly three months, for a total of 716- and one-half hours. Each of the winning bidders will be photographed with Abramović by renowned photographer Marco Anelli, who documented every sitting in Abramović’s legendary performance. Each sitter will receive a framed copy of the photograph signed by both Abramović and Anelli. In addition, they will receive a signed copy of Anelli’s 2021 publication, Portraits in the Presence of Marina Abramović, which includes portraits of all 1545 participants in the MoMA performance. The online auction, hosted by Artsy, will begin on date March 17th and run until March 25th. Exhibition Press Macias, Ernesto. "Marina Abramović Is Forever Young." Interview Magazine, March 31, 2022. Fragoso, Sam. "Marina Abramović: Episode 267." Talk Easy, March 20, 2022. Wally, Maxine. "The Rebirth of Marina Abramović." W Magazine, March 15, 2022. Editors. "MUST SEE: Marina Abramović Performative at Sean Kelly" Artforum, March 3, 2022. Marina Abramović was one of the first performance artists to become formally accepted by the institutional museum world, with major solo shows throughout Europe and the US for almost 50 years. In 2010, Abramović was the first performance artist to be the subject of a solo exhibition at MoMA, and in 2023, Abramović will be the first woman to have a solo exhibition across the entire Main Galleries at the Royal Academy, London. Abramović’s first European retrospective The Cleaner was presented at Moderna Museet in Stockholm, Sweden in 2017, followed by presentations at the Louisiana Museum of Modern Art in Copenhagen, Denmark, 2107, Henie Onstad, Sanvika, Norway, 2017, Bundeskunsthalle, Bonn, Germany, 2018, Centre of Contemporary Art, Torún, 2019, and Museum of Contemporary Art Belgrade, Serbia, 2019. Her work has also been the subject of solo exhibitions at institutions including the Sakıp Sabancı Museum, Istanbul, Turkey; the Benaki Museum, Athens, Greece; SESC, Pompeia, São Paulo, Brazil; the Serpentine Gallery, London, UK; the Contemporary Art Museum, Kumamoto, Japan; the Contemporary Art Center, Malaga, Spain; the Park Avenue Armory, New York; Kunsthalle Wien, Vienna, Austria; Padiglione d’Arte Contemporanea, Milan, Italy; the Garage Center for Contemporary Culture, Moscow, Russia; the Museum of Modern Art, New York, and the Guggenheim Museum, New York. Abramović has participated in many large-scale international exhibitions, including the Venice Biennale in 1976 and 1997, for which she was awarded the Golden Lion for Best Artist, and Documenta VI, VII and IX, Kassel, Germany in 1977, 1982, and 1992. Abramović has received numerous awards, most recently, the Princess of Asturias Award for the Arts, 2021. She also received the Globart Award in Vienna, 2018; the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres Officier for work in Bolero, Paris, 2013; and the Austrian Decoration of Honor for Science and Art in Vienna, 2008, amongst others.
