=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2008 UCI Cyclo-cross World Championships – Men's junior race]
Ranking ; Arnaud Jouffroy ( FRA ), 40:30.00 ; Peter Sagan ( SVK ), + 0:01.14 ; Lubomir Petrus ( CZE ), + 0:04.83 ; 4. Elia Silvestri ( ITA ), + 0:54.53.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2008_UCI_Cyclo-cross_World_Championships_%E2%80%93_Men%27s_junior_race

[Ahead since '91 – the milestones]
He began at the cross country MTB world cup race in Nove Mesto where he started from place 90 to lap by lap advance to place eight. The following week he joined ...
URL: https://www.stevensbikes.de/en/de/the-stevens-history-so-far/

[UCI Cyclo-cross World Cup]
The UCI Cyclo-cross World Cup is a season-long competition in cyclo-cross, organised by the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UCI_Cyclo-cross_World_Cup

[The Moment The Race Was Won – The Worlds]
Sep 28, 2015 — Still 25, it's not his first rainbow jersey either as he was junior MTB champion in 2008. ... world-championships-niels-albert-arnaud-jouffroy- ...
URL: https://inrng.com/2015/09/the-moment-the-race-was-won-the-worlds/

["We're stubborn and don't listen to the riders": why even French cyclocross ...]
Nov 26, 2025 — That's why Arnaud Jouffroy, Julian Alaphilippe and Pauline Ferrand-Prévot never really had big cyclocross careers. Once you go pro, the teams ...
URL: https://cyclingflash.com/news/were-stubborn-and-dont-listen-to-the-riders-why-even-french-cyclocross-wont-take-off


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2008 UCI Cyclo-cross World Championships – Men's junior race] ---
This event was held on Saturday 26 January 2008 as part of the 2008 UCI Cyclo-cross World Championships in Treviso, Italy.


--- [Ahead since '91 – the milestones] ---
2021: The second generation takes the helm With Kim von Hacht (33), Julian von Hacht (33) and Jacob von Hacht (31), the children of Werner and Wolfgang von Hacht will take over important management roles within the bicycle supplier in March 2021. “As a family and management, we are pleased that we can set up and continue to shape the further development of the company with the second generation in the interests of STEVENS, our employees, partners and, of course, the family,” says Wolfgang von Hacht. “Enthusiasm for the product, the trade and the partnership we live by are what characterize our new generation,” adds Werner von Hacht. Wolfgang von Hacht remains chairman of the management board. Kim von Hacht manages IT, human resources and administration, while Julian von Hacht takes charge of procurement, production, warehousing and product design. Jacob von Hacht, on the other hand, is responsible for marketing, customer service and sales.


--- [UCI Cyclo-cross World Cup] ---
The UCI Cyclo-cross World Cup is a season-long competition in cyclo-cross, organised by the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) and Flanders Classics. First held in the 1993–1994 season, there are currently six awards, tailored to the different categories of riders: Elite Men, Elite Women, Under 23 Men, Under 23 Women, Junior Men and Junior Women.
The World Cup is not to be confused with the World Championship, also organised by the UCI, which is a single one day race that awards the winner with a rainbow jersey to be worn in every race till the next World Championship. Typically the World Championships are held a week or two after the end of the World Cup at the end of January or early February.
In November 2014 the first round of the World Cup ever to take place outside mainland Europe was held in Milton Keynes, England. The following September, the CrossVegas competition was incorporated into the World Cup for the first time, becoming the first World Cup round to be held in the United States.


--- [The Moment The Race Was Won – The Worlds] ---
Richmond, city of tobacco and the home of the Lucky Strike brand. What better place for Peter Sagan to strike once? The Slovakian launched his attack on 23rd Street, flying past Greg Van Avermaet who’d had the same idea, only slower, and then using the twisting descent to extend his lead. This was the moment the race was won. The early break went with the usual random mix and no obvious team pattern. Virginia’s own Ben King was in the mix. Behind the orange jerseys of the Netherlands led the chase, at times it looked as if they thought there were 30km to go rather than 230km. The breakaway never got a big lead and the Dutch, notably Jos van Emden, toiled for 100km. Did the oranje need to work so hard? Maybe not but they and other teams tried to impose a strategy on the race. With 130km to go we saw Germany start to take over and the next lap the Belgians hit the front on the climbs with Poland visible too. Anyone watching the race from start to finish might question why they were viewing for so long but the distance matters, on a course without fierce difficulties the steady accumulation of fatigue is needed to tease apart the riders, to turn a molehill into a hors catégorie mountain. But if the race was long, so was the action as we got to see a series of moves that livened up the race. Kanstantin Siutsou, Guillaume Boivin, Jarlinson Pantano and Taylor Phinney: they were never going to win but they can roll and forced other teams to chase. With four laps to go there was a big crash at the feedzone with many hitting the ground, notably Alexander Kristoff, but all were up and riding soon. Later Michał Kwiatkowski, Bauke Mollema, Tom Boonen, Andrey Amador, Michał Kwiatkowski, Ian Stannard, Dani Moreno and Elia Viviani went clear, a heavyweight move. Boonen looked forceful, Kwiatkowski was floating while Moreno looked the odd one out but was representing Spain. Germany and Australia were left to chase. Sanremo Flashback: Peter Sagan was among the strongest in Milan-Sanremo last March. It showed. He was tracking moves and showboating on the descent of the Poggio. The result? He was too obvious, predictable rather than audacious. If cycling is wheeled poker, he was showing his hand to everyone. His moves were closed down. To declare Sagan lost this race is too strong but his tactics certainly reduced his chances. It’s one example from many occasions when Sagan simply looked too strong, too obvious, take Stage 16 of the Tour de France as another when Ruben Plaza rode away as the others marked the Slovak. Back to Richmond 2015 and a reduced peloton reeled in a late exhibition move by Kanstantin Siutsou and Tyler Farrar. Over 250km of racing and it was going to come down to the three climbs on the last lap. Many riders had shown a leg and smile but plenty had kept their faces hidden in the peloton, their names not even mentioned on TV nor race radio. Up Libby Hill and Zdeněk Štybar attacked with John Degenkolb on his wheel. For a moment the pair had a gap but Philippe Gilbert closed them down and everything regrouped, but only among those who’d been strong up the first climb. Onto 23rd street and Greg Van Avermaet launched a big attack as soon as he came out of the corner. For a moment it looked promising but as they hit the cobbles and the gradient pitched up Peter Sagan came flying past. Van Avermaet tried to follow but his body language needed no subtitles, his shoulders were rocking and his head was dipping while Sagan looked more forceful. Over the top of the rise there was only a few metres between them but a gulf in body language as Sagan powered away. Sagan could have sat tight for the sprint but this was – we’re in Richmond after all – a “liberty or death” move with no calculations or hesitations. He quickly turned the descent to his advantage, sitting on the top tube and pedalling to pull out an advantage. Now the time gap was growing, six seconds became nine and then more. Behind the others were hesitating, expecting someone else to chase. Sagan even unclipped his foot from the pedals by accident on the final climb up Governor Street but he was clear of the others and took the solo win. The Verdict The course was just selective enough after 260km, the crowds great and the result uncertain until the last moment. If the winning move was launched late in the race it came after an action-packed final hour and delivered a champion winner, a big name with big charisma despite riding for a small team today with his brother Juraj on tap and maybe, just maybe, some Tinkoff-Saxo colleagues. Sagan’s post-race interview briefly sounded like a confused address to the United Nations with talk that “the population must change“. But it was Sagan who’s changed first, landing the big win he’s been promising with a committed attack. 2015 has been a troublesome season when measured against the high expectations set by his employer and his pay packet. This has meant a season so far defined by his losses, despite a stage win in Tirreno-Adriatico, winning the Tour of California and taking the points competition and beaucoup airtime in the Tour de France before a stage win in the Vuelta. Still 25, it’s not his first rainbow jersey either as he was junior MTB champion in 2008. Michael Matthews was second and probably could not ask for more after a clever ride. Ramūnas Navardauskas was third and the Lithuanian has delivered some strong finishes before, he’s not a sprinter but has power on tap in a hard finish, today only shows what he’s capable of. The only let down this week was the TV production. Basic errors like the lack of an on-screen time gap made it hard to know what was happening, whenever the information appeared on screen it felt like a treat rather than a requirement. There were ten minute periods without a time gap between the bunch and the break. Bad? It’s deliberate as this has happened in previous editions of the Worlds and the Olympics under the UCI’s production. The camera crew need a debrief too, they often dwelt on a narrow view, for example when Sagan attacked we saw him riding hard but had no sense if he was going clear on the descent until the camera belatedly panned to the chasers; the helicopter kept showing the rooftops of Richmond instead of the race. This needs fixing before Rio.


--- ["We're stubborn and don't listen to the riders": why even French cyclocross ...] ---
"We're stubborn and don't listen to the riders": why even French cyclocross won't take off At the start of 2025, France still hosted the Cyclocross World Championships in Liévin, and this weekend the World Cup race follows in Flamanville. Yet, we haven’t seen a top French male cyclocross rider in a long time. Fortunately, there is more enthusiasm on the women’s side, but it’s a warning sign that both national champions, Amandine Fouquenet and Clément Venturini, have not found contracts for next year. How far has French cyclocross fallen? We asked former rider and Eurosport analyst Steve Chainel. During his career, Chainel was the prime example of a rider determined to combine road racing and cyclocross. He sometimes went against his employer’s wishes, but it earned him a stage win in the Three Days of De Panne-Koksijde on the road and a French cyclocross title—which was no small feat in a generation dominated by the French cyclocross legend Francis Mourey. But neither Mourey nor you have had successors, Steve! “That’s something I’ve also had to acknowledge, yes. It’s not easy as a Frenchman to have to drive to Belgium every weekend. I lived in the Vosges, which is a four-hour drive and just about manageable. But if you live in Bordeaux or Brittany and have to make a seven-hour or longer trip every weekend, after two months you’re completely wiped out. The same goes for your mechanics and your motorhome. And just try to pay for all that fuel. It’s basically impossible.” Still, many young French riders start cyclocross early. But just before turning pro, they all suddenly switch exclusively to road racing. “I rode for all the French teams, and I can tell you the same motto applies everywhere: cyclocross is only a preparation for the road. You could be a huge cyclocross talent in juniors, but teams don’t really see it as a specialty. That’s why Arnaud Jouffroy, Julian Alaphilippe and Pauline Ferrand-Prévot never really had big cyclocross careers. Once you go pro, the teams say: stop! The same recently happened to Quentin Jauregy. He even finished third at the Under-23 World Championships but wasn’t allowed to do full-time cyclocross as a pro. Joshua Dubau switched to mountain biking instead.” That must make your cyclocross heart weep? “It does. Especially since it’s often not even the riders’ choice themselves. I regularly watch junior races where over 200 riders start. They all love cyclocross, and so do their parents. My son is 17 and completely obsessed with Wout van Aert, and Mathieu van der Poel is also a huge inspiration. But after the U23 period, you have to choose: earn money on the road with a big team, or keep racing cyclocross with a small club team.” Isn’t that mindset a bit outdated, given many positive examples in recent years? The teams should see that, too? “At Decathlon CMA CMG, the tide is starting to turn a little, but again under the riders’ own initiative. Aubin Sparfel (19 years old) is currently the biggest cyclocross talent in France, and he’s been smart. He signed a solid contract with Decathlon that explicitly allows him to do cyclocross every winter. He’s a true fan of the sport and is thinking about the Olympics.” On the other hand, you can see Léo Bisiaux and Paul Seixas saying goodbye to cyclocross at that team. “I happened to be on a podcast with Léo this week. You’d think that as a former world champion he would still get opportunities in cyclocross, but when I asked him about that, he said that at Decathlon it’s only important that he develops into a top climber for general classifications. That might suit him best. But eventually they at Decathlon won’t be able to avoid it. They still have talents in their junior squad who want to excel in both disciplines. That should be possible, right? They’re based near the border in Lille and have a strong group with which they could gain visibility during winter.” So where exactly is the problem with these teams? “You have to understand that we don’t share the same culture. The French can be very stubborn sometimes. If something has always been done a certain way in the past, it’s very difficult to change that mindset. I nagged my team sports directors for years that cyclocross was important to me. That it helped me start the classics in good shape and stay focused during winter, but I never really got much support. You just can't motivate big teams to send people to Belgium every weekend with equipment. Of course, they want to spare their staff some in winter.” Even though it’s proven to improve performance in the classics? Wout van Aert and Mathieu van der Poel have shown that well enough. “That’s true. That’s definitely helping to slowly shift the mindset. In my time, you only had Lars Boom and Zdenek Stybar as examples; now there are more. Maybe I wasn’t talented enough to prove it myself (laughs). It’s just about finding the right balance, like Thibau Nys and Lucinda Brand do at Lidl-Trek. Célia Gery is getting a similar approach at FDJ-SUEZ, so the light is turning on there, too. Step by step, acceptance is growing that you can combine both.” Seeing how difficult it was for Hélène Clauzel to find a team, and now with Venturini and Fouquenet, you’d think there’s a need for a French cyclocross team to facilitate this. You once tried to set up such a team yourself. “That project is still costing me. In my opinion, it’s not possible today, for several reasons. One: which French sponsor would want to invest in visibility in Belgium? The biggest races take place in those countries. You really have to have a top rider on your roster, because you can’t convince a sponsor with a team that won’t compete for the top 5. Then you only appear at the start. Ideally, you find a sponsor genuinely interested in developing young riders and adding an elite or third division squad. Then you could build a nice project and grow together.” “Then there’s point two: even if I did find such a sponsor, you’re required to offer the riders a work contract in France, on which you have to pay a lot of taxes. If I want to hire Amandine in my team and pay her €1,000, with taxes that costs €2,000. While Belgian teams just send an invoice of €1,000 and pay her that way. So you need double the budget in France.” Is that why Clauzel ended up with the Roodhoofts? “Of course. In my view, they do it perfectly. Their riders compete both on road and cyclocross, making them stronger in both disciplines. On Wednesdays, they organize a joint cyclocross training that pushes them to improve even more. Hélène will take big steps there, if only because you recover better when you can stay in Belgium.” What will the new UCI rules and Olympic status change for French riders? “Mainly that teams will listen more to the riders. Not only in cyclocross. Benjamin Thomas is probably the best track rider of the last ten years, but he has to fight to be allowed to race on the track by his team. And track cycling is already Olympic. But UCI points will definitely interest Cofidis. I hope the desire many French riders have to do cyclocross can come true. Maybe riders like Evita Muzic, who comes from cyclocross, will pick up their old passion again. And also future generations will find it easier to voice their wishes.” What remains today of the French Coupe de France cyclocross series? “It’s a nice series on its own, but it has the same problem as those Belgian races. The first round is held in Albi, the second 600 kilometers away in Brittany, another in Normandy in the sand. If you want to race all those cyclocross events, it costs as much as a cyclocross race in Belgium because of the long distances. And if you get a flat tire and don’t win prize money, you drive seven hours for nothing. It’s too expensive to participate in all of them.” Will you use this weekend in Flamanville, as ambassador of French cyclocross, to remind some French sports directors of these issues? “My son is racing, so I’m definitely focused on him. But of course I’ll do my best. I have long been pushing the French federation to establish a good cyclocross course in every department, like Sven Nys’s circuit in Baal. I even want to build one near my house. Riders could train there safely and off the road, pushing each other to become stronger. There is interest in that.” “We should really copy Belgian cyclocross more. The World Cup is already broadcast live on Eurosport and L'Équipe TV in France, but maybe we could also get the Coupe de France live on TV. Then we follow the example of the Superprestige and X²O Trophy, sponsors gain more visibility, and interest grows. We’re not quite there yet, but in many ways we’re slowly moving in the right direction.”
