=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[International Prize in Statistics | ISI]
The International Prize in Statistics has been awarded to Bradley Efron, professor of statistics and biomedical data science at Stanford University, in recognition of the 'bootstrap', a method he developed in 1977 for assessing the uncertainty of scientific results that has had extraordinary impact across many scientific fields. See more information on the dedicated website.
URL: https://isi-web.org/awards-prizes/international-prize-statistics

[International Prize in Statistics - Wikipedia]
^ "International Prize in Statistics Awarded to Sir David Cox for Survival Analysis Model Applied in Medicine, Science, and Engineering" (PDF). ^ "International prize in statistics awarded to Nan Laird for longitudinal study methods". EurekAlert. American Statistical Association. Archived from the original on 2021-06-28. Retrieved 2021-03-24. ^ Va, Alexandria (August 23, 2023) [Originally ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Prize_in_Statistics

[Institute of Mathematical Statistics | International Prize in Statistics awarded to Nan Laird]
The 2021 International Prize in Statistics has been awarded to US biostatistician and IMS Fellow Nan Laird, Harvey V. Fineberg Professor of Biostatistics (Emerita) at Harvard T.H.
URL: https://imstat.org/2021/03/24/international-prize-in-statistics-awarded-to-nan-laird/

[Nan Laird Honored with International Prize in Statistics - Amstat News]
Like most Australians, I’m used to taking phone calls and Zoom meetings at strange hours. But I was particularly delighted to learn on a recent early-morning call with Ron Wasserstein that our nomination of Nan Laird as the 2021 recipient of the International Prize in Statistics had been ...
URL: https://magazine.amstat.org/blog/2021/04/01/lairdinternationalprize/

[Institute of Mathematical Statistics | Nan Laird receives International Prize in Statistics at ISI Virtual World Congress]
Nov 16, 2021 · As we announced in the April/May 2021 issue, the 2021 International Prize in Statistics was awarded to US biostatistician Nan Laird, Harvey V. Fineberg Professor of Biostatistics (Emerita) at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, in recognition of her work on powerful methods that have made possible the analysis of complex longitudinal ...
URL: https://imstat.org/2021/11/16/nan-laird-receives-international-prize-in-statistics-at-isi-virtual-world-congress/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [International Prize in Statistics | ISI] ---
International Prize in Statistics Previous winners of the prize Nan Laird, Harvey V. Fineberg Professor of Biostatistics (Emerita) at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, is recognized for her work on powerful methods that gave researchers the tools they needed to answer important questions in health, medicine, psychology and more. This jump-started a field known as “random effects modeling for longitudinal data analysis,” and the methods Laird introduced in 1982 are still the most widely used techniques in both observational studies and clinical trials today. The International Prize in Statistics has been awarded to Bradley Efron, professor of statistics and biomedical data science at Stanford University, in recognition of the ‘bootstrap’, a method he developed in 1977 for assessing the uncertainty of scientific results that has had extraordinary impact across many scientific fields. See more information on the dedicated website. Prominent British statistician Sir David Cox has been named the inaugural recipient of the International Prize in Statistics. Dr. Cox is a giant in the field of statistics, but the International Prize in Statistics Foundation is recognizing him specifically for his 1972 paper in which he developed the proportional hazards model that today bears his name. See more information on the dedicated website.


--- [International Prize in Statistics - Wikipedia] ---
The International Prize in Statistics is awarded every two years to an individual or team "for major achievements using statistics to advance science, technology and human welfare". The International Prize in Statistics, along with the COPSS Presidents' Award, are the two highest honours in the field of Statistics.
The prize is modelled after the Nobel Prizes, Abel Prize, Fields Medal and Turing Award and comes with a monetary award of $80,000. The award ceremony takes place during the World Statistics Congress.


--- [Institute of Mathematical Statistics | International Prize in Statistics awarded to Nan Laird] ---
The 2021 International Prize in Statistics has been awarded to US biostatistician Nan Laird, Harvey V. Fineberg Professor of Biostatistics (Emerita) at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, in recognition of her work on powerful methods that have made possible the analysis of complex longitudinal studies. More details below, in the April/May IMS Bulletin, and on the International Prize in Statistics website. The 2021 International Prize in Statistics has been awarded to US biostatistician and IMS Fellow Nan Laird, Harvey V. Fineberg Professor of Biostatistics (Emerita) at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, in recognition of her work on powerful methods that have made possible the analysis of complex longitudinal studies. Thanks to Laird’s work, applied researchers have been able to wring detailed information from large longitudinal studies—sometimes over many decades, such as with the Nurses’ Health Study in the US or the National Child Development Study in the UK. The design of these studies traditionally made it difficult for researchers to control for participants’ individual characteristics while also dealing with often-sparse data from hard-to-reach populations. Laird’s work gave researchers the tools they needed, allowing them to answer important questions in health, medicine, psychology and more. This jump-started the field of “random effects modeling for longitudinal data analysis,” and the methods Laird introduced in 1982 are still the most widely used techniques in both observational studies and clinical trials today. Garrett Fitzmaurice, professor of biostatistics at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, called Laird’s 1982 Biometrics paper “a statistical tour de force.” “Nan pioneered the development and application of what are now considered to be modern statistical methods for longitudinal analysis. Her work has changed how statisticians and empirical researchers approach the analysis of data from longitudinal studies.” The International Prize in Statistics is awarded every two years by a collaboration among five leading international statistics organizations: IMS, ASA, ISI, RSS and IBS. The prize recognizes a major achievement by an individual or team in the statistics field, particularly an achievement of powerful and original ideas that has led to practical applications and breakthroughs in other disciplines. Laird will receive the prize, which comes with an $80,000 award, this July at the biennial International Statistical Institute World Statistics Congress, which will be held virtually: see https://www.isi2021.org/. The first International Prize in Statistics was awarded in 2017 to British statistician David R. Cox for the development of the Cox proportional hazards model. US statistician Bradley Efron received the award in 2019 for the bootstrap, a clever computational method for assessing uncertainty in applied statistics. Nan Laird’s Work Nan Laird began the work that would eventually lead to the International Prize in Statistics in 1982, as an assistant professor in the Harvard School of Public Health Biostatistics Department, collaborating with Harvard biostatistician Jim Ware. Ware was involved with the Harvard Six Cities Study, which followed over 8,000 participants across the US for more than a decade, regularly collecting data to investigate the effects of air pollution on lung functioning. Ware turned to Laird for help in developing methods to address some particularly tricky problems in the data. At the time, most statistical methods required the data to be unrealistically orderly and complete. For example, researchers had to collect the exact same number of measurements from each participant on the same regular schedule —but in reality, participants often fail to show up for some appointments only to show up for later ones, or irregularly respond to researchers’ requests at unscheduled times. The existing methods also did not give researchers the flexibility to incorporate the participants’ individual characteristics, which were needed to address their study’s questions—such as how a person’s personal smoking behaviors interact with air pollution to affect their lung capacity, or how their change in body mass influences their overall health. Laird’s solution was to develop an integrated statistical framework that could handle all these problems. This approach, which she and Ware described in their 1982 Biometrics paper, “Random Effects Models for Longitudinal Data: An Overview of Recent Results,” was flexible enough to accommodate real-world situations, including ones with missing data. It also let researchers fine-tune their approaches to capture each participant’s individual changes over time, as well as the general effects across a population. The paper went beyond new abstract theories, however. Realizing the need for practical methods, especially given the limitations of computing in the early 1980s, Laird and Ware introduced a novel computational approach for carrying out data analysis. Also, in a surprisingly modern and visionary move for the time, Laird and Ware developed and disseminated user-friendly software for others to use, which led to broad adoption of the new statistical framework by investigators. Nan Laird’s Background Nan Laird was born in Gainesville, Florida, in 1943, to a schoolteacher mother, who stayed at home to raise her and her older sister, and a political science professor father, who turned to state government and political work when the family moved to Tallahassee when Laird was three years old. Math was Laird’s favorite subject in school, and when she started Rice University in 1961 as an undergraduate, she initially majored in math. She quickly grew dissatisfied with her studies, however. Not only was it awkward to be the sole female in her mathematics course section, especially at a time when women were generally discouraged from pursuing studies in the sciences, but she also yearned to do something more practical than the theory she was encountering. She soon switched her major to French, then left Rice altogether after her junior year and moved to New York City. A few years later, after another family move, Laird picked up her studies at the University of Georgia. This time, she started in computer science, hoping to find that elusive element of practicality she had missed in mathematics. She found it not in computers, which were just starting to become mainstream at the time, but in her statistical decision theory course. She was entranced by the idea that one could use math formulas to make life decisions, even mundane ones like whether to pack an umbrella in the morning. Hooked on statistics, she switched majors a final time and graduated with her BS in statistics in 1969. Another move took Laird to Boston, where she worked as a computer programmer for a couple of years on the Apollo Man to the Moon Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Draper Laboratory, running computer simulations to test the navigation system for the Apollo spacecrafts. The work convinced her she needed more education to keep advancing in her career, so she decided to pursue graduate studies in statistics. Laird entered Harvard University as a doctoral student in statistics in 1971. She earned her PhD after four years and joined the faculty as an assistant professor in biostatistics. She remained at Harvard until her retirement four decades later. Throughout her career, Laird has published three books and more than 400 papers, which have garnered more than 180,000 citations. She is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Statistical Association, and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics; an elected member of the International Statistical Institute; and the recipient of the Janet Norwood Prize and Samuel S. Wilks Award. Laird has served on many panels and editorial boards, including a 1986 National Academy of Sciences panel on airliner cabin environment, which led to the elimination of smoking on airplanes. Laird chaired the Harvard School of Public Health Department of Biostatistics from 1990–1999. Nan Laird lives in Cambridge, Mass., with her husband. She has two children and three grandchildren.


--- [Nan Laird Honored with International Prize in Statistics - Amstat News] ---
Nan Laird Honored with International Prize in Statistics Nomination Cites Transformative Contributions to Random Effects Modeling Louise Ryan, ACEMS Chief Investigator and Professor of Statistics, University of Technology Sydney Like most Australians, I’m used to taking phone calls and Zoom meetings at strange hours. But I was particularly delighted to learn on a recent early-morning call with Ron Wasserstein that our nomination of Nan Laird as the 2021 recipient of the International Prize in Statistics had been successful! Ron asked if I could do a short writeup about Nan for Amstat News, so I decided to simply give you a slightly shortened and adapted version of the nomination statement. Nan had just been promoted to associate professor in the department of biostatistics at the Harvard School of Public Health (HSPH) when I started there as a postdoctoral fellow in 1983. She was already well recognized as a powerhouse within the department and in the broader community. Because it was quite rare in those days to encounter such a prominent and successful female academic, I was somewhat awestruck and looked to her as a mentor and role model. A few years later, she became my department chair and boss. A few years after that, I became her department chair and boss! Although we have never written a paper together, I consider her to be a cherished colleague. Indeed, it was my pleasure and honor to interview her and write about her fascinating life in a 2015 Statistical Science article, “A Conversation with Nan Laird.” Like other intellectual giants, Nan has been extraordinarily productive throughout her career and made ground-breaking contributions to several distinct areas of statistical science. Indeed, Google Scholar reports more than 174,000 citations of her work. But because the International Prize in Statistics is awarded for a single work or body of work, it was necessary to pick a single area of focus. One natural possibility was her work on missing data and the EM algorithm, accomplished during her PhD years (her first published paper, “Maximum-Likelihood with Incomplete Data via the EM Algorithm,” published in the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series B in 1977, has more than 61,000 citations). Her work on meta-analysis was also a contender (her paper, “Meta-Analysis in Clinical Trials,” published in the Journal of Controlled Clinical Trials in 1986, has more than 28,000 citations). Nan has also made seminal contributions in statistical genetics, especially family-based association studies. In the end, we decided to focus on her ground-breaking contributions to random effects modeling for longitudinal data analysis. Indeed, this was her research focus when I met her at HSPH and I have witnessed first-hand the transformative effect her work has had, not only on my own work but on the work of so many other methodologically-focused statisticians and in practical application over multiple domains. As described in my 2015 Statistical Science article, the HSPH Biostatistics Department was tiny when Nan started as an assistant professor in 1975, but started to expand under the transformative leadership of Fred Mosteller and, soon thereafter, Marvin Zelen. Both strove to create a stimulating intellectual environment with young, talented statisticians working on interesting collaborative projects. They also gave the time and space for creative exploration of statistical methods ideas and challenges that arose from those collaborations. This was an environment in which Nan thrived. A fateful encounter was with another young assistant professor in the department, James Ware, who arrived in 1979 to work on the Harvard Six Cities Study. This large longitudinal cohort followed children recruited from six US cities with the goal of studying the impact of air pollution on the development of their lung function. Nan’s unique background and perspectives, honed during her PhD with Arthur Dempster in the Harvard Statistics Department, led her quite naturally to formulate the problem in terms of each child having a unique intercept and slope, which were influenced by exposure to air pollution. By viewing these random intercepts and slopes as unobserved or missing data, she was able to apply the EM algorithm, thereby achieving a brilliant analytic strategy that made fitting random effects models computationally feasible. While random effects models had been around for some time and understood from a theoretical perspective, fitting them was extremely difficult, except in certain restrictive settings (e.g., balanced and complete designs where all subjects were measured at exactly the same set of times). The 1982 paper Nan and Jim published in Biometrics, “Random Effects Models for Longitudinal Data: An Overview of Recent Results,” has earned more than 9,200 citations and is still getting well over 400 citations a year, even today. Nan and Jim were savvy enough to recognize the importance of disseminating their work with user-friendly software and did so via a Fortran program called REML, which many people soon started to use. It is important to remember this was in the early ’80s, when statistical software packages were in their infancy. Indeed, when SAS released their PROC Mixed module in 1992, it is my understanding that it was largely based on the Laird-Ware algorithm. Modern day advances in computational power have made it possible to fit mixed effects models more quickly using other algorithms. But, back in the 80s and 90s, recognition that the EM algorithm could be used to fit broad classes of random effects models resulted in an explosion of activity, not only in terms of applications but also in terms of statistical methodology development. Over the next several decades, Nan guided numerous students and postdoctoral fellows to explore a wide range of topics derived from her foundational paper with Jim. Building on the foundations she helped them lay, an impressive number of her students and mentees have gone on to forge prestigious careers of their own. One of them, Garrett Fitzmaurice, was co-author with her and Jim on a highly cited monograph on longitudinal data analysis, Applied Longitudinal Analysis. It is no surprise Nan has been recognized with many prestigious awards and honors throughout her career. However, having recently retired from her academic career at Harvard, being selected as the third winner of the International Prize in Statistics seems like a fitting, crowning accolade for her. I also believe having a female winner of the prize is powerful and timely. As I indicated above, Nan made a strong impression on me as a young postdoc and I vividly recall how, through her example, she inspired me to think that perhaps I could also succeed in my career. Almost 40 years later, our field has come a long way, but there is still much to be done. If you were to ask a young person in our profession today to close their eyes and imagine a world-class statistician, how many will see a woman? The impact of awarding the International Prize in Statistics to Nan not only recognizes her ground-breaking contributions to statistical science, but it will help empower many young females in our profession and inspire others to join our profession. Editor’s Note: Marie Davidian, Garrett Fitzmaurice, Ross Prentice, Kathryn Roeder, and Scott Zeger helped draft the nomination and wrote letters of support.


--- [Institute of Mathematical Statistics | Nan Laird receives International Prize in Statistics at ISI Virtual World Congress] ---
As we announced in the April/May 2021 issue, the 2021 International Prize in Statistics was awarded to US biostatistician Nan Laird, Harvey V. Fineberg Professor of Biostatistics (Emerita) at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, in recognition of her work on powerful methods that have made possible the analysis of complex longitudinal studies. Laird received the award, and accompanying $80,000, at the ISI Virtual World Congress in July, from Guy Nason, who chairs the International Prize in Statistics Foundation. In the award ceremony, Laird said she was honored to receive the prize, and grateful to the five statistical societies who created the award [ASA, IMS, IBS, ISI and RSS: see statprize.org], and to her many colleagues and friends who helped to make the award happen—notably Jim Ware, without whom, she said, the work on longitudinal studies would not have happened. She was “especially grateful” that her work was “recognized for having advanced public welfare and improved the quality of modern life,” adding, “I believe that statisticians touch the lives of all of us […] because of our many, many contributions—often behind the scenes—to our understanding of science, especially the social sciences, health and medicine. I am delighted to see that our profession has taken this step to improve the visibility of statistics in society.” You can watch the video of the presentation of the Prize, together with Nan Laird’s International Prize in Statistics 2021 Lecture, Contributions to Longitudinal Studies, here.
