=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ashraf Abbasi - Wikipedia]
Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. [1] She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ashraf_Abbasi

[A veteran politican & former Deputy Speaker NA Dr. Ashraf Abbasi dies]
She was nominated as a member of the committee that drafted the 1973 constitution. Begum Dr Ashraf Abbasi was active politician and among the close associates of Shaheed Zulifqar Ali Bhutto and Shaheed Benazir Bhutto, She remained a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 to 1965, joined PPP and won the NA-165 seat in 1970.
URL: https://thepioneer.com.pk/a-veteran-politican-former-deputy-speaker-na-dr-ashraf-abbasi-dies/

[Begum Ashraf Abbasi passes away - Newspaper - DAWN.COM]
She remained a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 to 1965, joined PPP and won the NA-165 seat in 1970. She became the first woman deputy speaker of the National Assembly in 1973 and ...
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/1123109

[Ashraf Abbasi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Ashraf Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی ‎; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي ‎) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly in 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP and ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/Ashraf-Abbasi

[Ashraf Abbasi - Wikiwand]
Ashraf Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. [1] She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP and won ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Ashraf_Khatoon_Abbasi


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ashraf Abbasi - Wikipedia] ---
Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP and won from her constituency in 1970.


--- [A veteran politican & former Deputy Speaker NA Dr. Ashraf Abbasi dies] ---
Imtiaz Gorar LARKANA: Former Deputy Speaker National Assembly and close aide to former Prime of Pakistan, founder PPP Shaheed Zulifqar Ali Bhutto and Shaheed Benazir Bhutto Begum Dr Ashraf Abbasi mother of former Senator Dr Safdar Abbasi and MPA Haji Munwar Ali Abbasi who passed away on Sunday evening due to prolonged illness, was laid to rest at her ancestral graveyard Arab Pir in Waleed Muhalla Larkana here on Monday. Hundreds people belonging from different walk of life among leaders of different political and religious organizations and notable citizens attended the funeral prayer. On the occasion former PPP MPA Anwar Mahar, MPA Ghulam Mujtaba Isran, PML F Leader Syed Akbar Shah Rashidi, Shafqat Hussain Unar, General Secretary PPP District Larkana Abdul Fatah Bhutto and other She was born in Larkana on 1st January 1923 and did her early education in Larkana later and passed secondary education from the DJ College Sindh in 1940 and got admission in the lady Harding Medical College for Girls in Delhi India and she also did her MBBS from the Dow Medical College when she was the mother of two. She was nominated as a member of the committee that drafted the 1973 constitution. Begum Dr Ashraf Abbasi was active politician and among the close associates of Shaheed Zulifqar Ali Bhutto and Shaheed Benazir Bhutto, She remained a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 to 1965, joined PPP and won the NA-165 seat in 1970. She became the first woman deputy speaker of the National Assembly in 1973 and held the position till 1977 and again from 1988 to 1990. She also served as the chairperson of the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology, SZABIST Larkana campus. In 1977, she won a Sindh Assembly seat and was made the minister for local government,She also remained a member of the Allama Iqbal Open University, Islamabad, and University of Sindh, Jamshoro, syndicates. She took active part in the Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD) and remained incarcerated in Sukkur jail for 14 months. She had been under house arrest four times in Karachi and Waleed (Larkana) during the PPP movement against martial law. Begum Ashraf established the Mothers’ Trust in 1996 to serve poor women and headed it till her death. She was author of one book “biography “which was published under the title of ‘Jaikey Halan Haikliyoon (the women who walk alone). Late Begum Ashraf Abbasi has left behind three sons, former MPA Haji Munwwar Ali Abbasi, former senator Dr Safdar Abbasi and Akhtar Abbasi. Her death has created big political vacuum in country, her services rendered for PPP and country will be remembered for ever.


--- [Begum Ashraf Abbasi passes away - Newspaper - DAWN.COM] ---
LARKANA: Begum Dr Ashraf Abbasi, former deputy speaker of the National Assembly and a close aide to PPP founder leader Z.A. Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto, died in Waleed village on Sunday. She was 91. She has left three sons, former MPA Haji Munwwar Ali Abbasi, former senator Dr Safdar Abbasi and Akhtar Abbasi. She was the mother-in-law of Benazir Bhutto’s political secretary Naheed Khan. Begum Abbasi, better known as ‘Amman doctor’ and ‘Ammi’, had been bed ridden for a long time, family sources said. She did her secondary education from the D.J. College Sindh in 1940 and got admission in the Lady Hardinge Medical College for Girls in Delhi. She remained a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 to 1965, joined PPP and won the NA-165 seat in 1970. She became the first woman deputy speaker of the National Assembly in 1973 and held the position till 1977 and again from 1988 to 1990. She also served as the chairperson of the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology, Larkana campus. In 1977, she won a Sindh Assembly seat and was made the minister for local government. Begum Abbasi did her MBBS from the Dow Medical College when she was the mother of two. She was nominated as a member of the committee that drafted the 1973 constitution. She also remained a member of the Allama Iqbal Open University, Islamabad, and University of Sindh, Jamshoro, syndicates. She took active part in the Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD) and remained incarcerated in Sukkur jail for 14 months. She had been under house arrest four times in Karachi and Waleed (Larkana) during the PPP movement against martial law. Begum Ashraf established the Mothers’ Trust in 1996 to serve poor women and headed it till her death. She authored her biography which was published under the title of ‘Jaikey Halan Haikliyoon (the women who walk alone). Published in Dawn, August 4th, 2014


--- [Ashraf Abbasi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Nationality Pakistani Name Ashraf Abbasi | Occupation Politician | | Died August 4, 2014, Larkana, Pakistan | Ashraf Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly in 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP and won from her constituency in 1970. Contents Personal life Abbasi received her secondary education from DJ College Sindh in 1940. She also studied at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi. She obtained her MBBS degree from the Dow Medical College Karachi. Abbasi opened her clinic in Larkana. She also served at Civil Hospital Larkana. She participated in the promotion of education. She died on 4 August 2014 in the village of Waleed, Larkana. She was the mother of two sons, including Safdar Ali Abbasi who became a PPP senator. Career Abbasi was a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 to 1965. Later, she the joined PPP, winning a National Assembly seat in 1970. She became the first woman deputy speaker of the National Assembly, serving from 1973 to 1977 and again from 1988 to 1990. She also served as the chairperson of the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology, Larkana campus, and was a member of the Allama Iqbal Open University, Islamabad, and University of Sindh, Jamshoro, syndicates. She was also a member of the constitution committee. She established the Mothers Trust in 1996 to help poor women. Abbasi wrote her biography titled Jaikey Halan Haikliyoon ("The Women Who Walk Alone").


--- [Ashraf Abbasi - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
