=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Evil Study Group | Community Wiki | Fandom]
In some cases they were not just left psychologically scarred but also physically damaged. At the Abed of that timeline's suggestion, these victims regrouped under a new purpose: to make other realities as dark as their own. The Evil Study Group's first appearance was in the Season Three episode "Remedial Chaos Theory".
URL: https://community-sitcom.fandom.com/wiki/Evil_Study_Group

[Remedial Chaos Theory - Wikipedia]
" Remedial Chaos Theory " is the fourth episode of the third season of the American television series Community. The episode was written by Chris McKenna and directed by Jeff Melman. It originally aired on October 13, 2011 on NBC. It follows a community college study group at a housewarming party for members Troy (Donald Glover) and Abed (Danny Pudi). When Jeff (Joel McHale) throws a die to ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remedial_Chaos_Theory

[List of Community episodes - Wikipedia]
The first season of Community premiered on September 17, 2009, and ended on May 20, 2010. NBC initially ordered 13 episodes, later ordering an additional nine in October and another three in January for a total of 25. [23][24]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Community_episodes

[Community's Darkest Timeline Explained: Every Event That Happens]
Apr 1, 2020 · The Darkest Timeline is introduced in Community season 3, episode 4, "Remedial Chaos Theory." The Darkest Timeline is the result of a game of chance that happens at a housewarming party thrown by Abed (Danny Pudi) and Troy (Donald Glover).
URL: https://screenrant.com/community-show-darkest-timeline-events-explained/

["Community" Introduction to Finality (TV Episode 2012)]
Introduction to Finality: Directed by Tristram Shapeero. With Joel McHale, Gillian Jacobs, Danny Pudi, Yvette Nicole Brown. Jeff faces an old nemesis as ...
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt2383317/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Evil Study Group | Community Wiki | Fandom] ---
We are the Evil Study group, and we have but one evil goal: return somehow to the Prime Timeline, the one that I stopped you from rolling that die. Then we destroy the good versions of ourselves and reclaim our proper lives. | | — Evil Abed, "Remedial Chaos Theory". | The roll of a Yahtzee die led to the creation of six different timelines. In one of those, Troy and Abed's housewarming party at their apartment turned into The Darkest Timeline. Due to the unfortunate events that took place, each member of the study group were changed for the worse. In some cases they were not just left psychologically scarred but also physically damaged. At the Abed of that timeline's suggestion, these victims regrouped under a new purpose: to make other realities as dark as their own. The Evil Study Group's first appearance was in the Season Three episode "Remedial Chaos Theory". Group history[] Season Three[] | In an alternate reality of the study group's third year at Greendale, Troy and Abed's housewarming party becomes the flashpoint for the creation of the "Evil Study Group". Troy left to get the pizza from the delivery guy only to return to the apartment minutes later to find chaos and confusion. Pierce had just accidentally gotten shot in the leg by Annie's gun, soaking Shirley with blood from his wound. While Annie and Abed tried to help Pierce, the Serbian rum he brought to the party had spilled onto the floor. It was ignited by a joint that Britta lit up in the bathroom, causing a fire to break out. Jeff and Britta tried to fight the fire as Troy decided to destroy the cause of the incident. He grabbed Pierce's housewarming gift, the Norwegian troll doll, and swallowed it despite the fact that it was on fire. | | | In the aftermath of these events, Pierce had apparently died from the gunshot, Annie was overcome with guilt due to that and was committed to a mental institution, Shirley started drinking again, Jeff was forced to have his arm amputated due to severe burns, and Troy had to have a voice box implanted after his throat was damaged. In solidarity to their friends, Britta dyed a blue streak in her hair while Abed came up with a plan to make things right. He created felt goatees and handed them to the rest of the group. He stated that they should embrace the darkness which occurred. Abed suggested they become the "Evil Study Group" and invade the "Prime timeline" they split off from. Still depressed over what happened, everyone but Troy agreed to help Abed with his plan ("Remedial Chaos Theory"). | | | Evil Abed would later establish contact with his "Prime timeline" counterpart via "The Dreamatorium". After Abed was scolded by Troy for his celebrity impersonator expenses, Evil Abed appeared in a simulation he imagined inside the play room. Abed was at first disturbed by his presence but Evil Abed convinced him being alone and separated from his friend wasn't a bad thing ("Contemporary Impressionists"). Evil Abed appeared to Abed once again after Troy had been forced to join the Greendale Air Conditioning Repair School. Taking advantage of how vulnerable he was at the time, Evil Abed took over Abed's body after tricking him into entering the Dreamatorium. Evil Abed then began his plan to make "The Prime Timeline" as dark as his own. | | | Evil Abed began with Britta and took control of a counseling session she had with Abed to force her to remember past childhood traumas. After leaving her dejected, Evil Abed went in search of Jeff, determined to cut his arm off and make him just like his counterpart. He found Jeff at Greendale representing Shirley in a faux court case against her business partner Pierce Hawthorne. The Bone saw Evil Abed brought didn't have a long enough cord to reach Jeff so he went to get an extension. When Evil Abed came back he was just in time to hear Jeff's closing argument. The speech was about doing good and being selfless which genuinely moved Evil Abed and stopped him from going through with his plan. His Prime Timeline counterpart took advantage of his hesitation, took back control of his body and cast Evil Abed back to his own reality ("Introduction to Finality"). | | Season Four[] | Evil Abed took the Winger Speech to heart and upon returning to his reality decided to try to brighten his own timeline instead of trying to darken others. However, Evil Jeff at the same time embraced his dark side and took control of the remaining Evil Study Group. Evil Troy turned his back on his now reformed best friend and joined Evil Jeff in his campaign to destroy the "Prime Timeline". When Evil Jeff crossed over, he used a special paintball gun to send "Prime Timeline" Abed to his world. While in the Darkest Timeline, Abed sought out his double. He found the formerly Evil Abed in his apartment who explained to him what occurred since their last encounter. Along with a DVD of all six seasons of his world's "The Cape", the Darkest Timeline Abed gave his double a means to return to his reality. He also gave him paintball equipment to combat the Evil Study group and send them back to the Darkest Timeline. | | | Evil Troy, Britta and Shirley crossed over to the Prime Timeline to join Evil Jeff and Annie and sent their counterparts to their dimension. After suiting up in matching leather apparel, Evil Jeff led his friends on a hunt to find each of their doubles. They arrived in the cafeteria only to be surprised by the arrival of Evil Pierce. It turned out he faked his own death to teach them a lesson and followed them to the "Prime Timeline" to offer his help. However, he misunderstood what Evil Britta told him about the mission and shot himself with a paintball gun Evil Britta accidentally shot herself as well, causing Evil Jeff to be exasperated at his cohort's stupidity. It's then that the "Prime Timeline" study group reveals they are inside the student lounge when Britta loudly takes exception to Evil Jeff berating her counterpart. The two groups face off and Annie, Shirley and Troy quickly dispatch their darker alternate selves. | | | Only Evil Jeff is left who lost track of his duplicate. Jeff then calls out to Evil Jeff who shoots a single paintball pellet his way. Jeff stands there unmoving as the paintball pellet races towards him and freezes it in place. Evil Jeff is puzzled at this turn of events as his counterpart shoots him with his own paintball gun sending him back to the Darkest Timeline. Afterwards, Evil Jeff and his Study Group have settled back into their lives in that reality. He interrupted Evil Troy and Formerly Evil Abed's morning show and expressed annoyance at their antics. He points out the fact that the show is fake and there isn't even an audience. Evil Jeff then tells them he'll see them later for lunch ("Advanced Introduction to Finality"). | | Members[]


--- [Remedial Chaos Theory - Wikipedia] ---
"Remedial Chaos Theory" is the fourth episode of the third season of the American television series Community. The episode was written by Chris McKenna and directed by Jeff Melman. It originally aired on October 13, 2011 on NBC. It follows a community college study group at a housewarming party for members Troy (Donald Glover) and Abed (Danny Pudi). When Jeff (Joel McHale) throws a die to determine who will go to collect the pizza delivery from downstairs, seven different timelines unfold, showing each member of the group leaving to collect it depending on the outcome of the dice—including the canonical timeline, in which Abed catches it before it lands. The episode was intended to be the third episode of the season, but was delayed by a week due to filming, editing and visual effects overrunning. As a result, "Competitive Ecology", due to be fourth, was aired third.
"Remedial Chaos Theory" is a concept episode, with each timeline depicting how the group is affected by the absence of one of its members. "The Darkest Timeline" ensues when Troy leaves, causing Pierce to be shot and a fire to break out. Further episodes continued plot points from this timeline. The episode received critical acclaim, lauded by fans and critics alike as one of the best episodes of the show. It has been described as one of the best episodes of 2011 and the 2010s. McKenna received a PAAFTJ Award and an Emmy Award nomination for his work on the episode. "Remedial Chaos Theory" also received a Hugo Award nomination.


--- [List of Community episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Community is an American television sitcom which premiered on NBC on September 17, 2009, and ended on June 2, 2015. The series creator Dan Harmon served as showrunner for all seasons, except season four in which David Guarascio and Moses Port served as co-showrunners. The series follows a group of students at a community college in the fictional locale of Greendale, Colorado. The series heavily uses meta-humor and pop culture references, often parodying film and television clichés and tropes.
The series stars Joel McHale, Gillian Jacobs, Danny Pudi, Yvette Nicole Brown, Alison Brie, Donald Glover, Ken Jeong, and Chevy Chase, with Jim Rash being promoted from recurring to series regular in season three. In season four, following an incident on set, Chase departed the series. In the fifth episode of season five, Glover left the series, followed by Brown in the season finale.
During the course of the series, 110 episodes of Community aired over six seasons. The first season of Community aired from September 17, 2009, through May 20, 2010. On March 5, 2010, NBC renewed the series for a second season, which aired from September 23, 2010, through May 12, 2011. The series was renewed for a third season on March 17, 2011. The third season aired from September 22, 2011, and concluded on May 17, 2012. The series was renewed for a fourth season on May 10, 2012. The fourth season ran from February 7 to May 9, 2013. The day after the season four finale, NBC announced it had renewed the series for a fifth season; the season ran from January 2 through April 17, 2014. A month later NBC announced that the series had been canceled. Yahoo Screen picked it up for a sixth and final season, which ran from March 17 to June 2, 2015.


--- [Community's Darkest Timeline Explained: Every Event That Happens] ---
No content


--- ["Community" Introduction to Finality (TV Episode 2012)] ---
Introduction to Finality - Episode aired May 17, 2012 - TV-PG - 22m Jeff faces an old nemesis as Shirley and Pierce square off in Greendale court, Abed succumbs to his evil alter ego, and Troy decides to meet his destiny at air conditioning school.Jeff faces an old nemesis as Shirley and Pierce square off in Greendale court, Abed succumbs to his evil alter ego, and Troy decides to meet his destiny at air conditioning school.Jeff faces an old nemesis as Shirley and Pierce square off in Greendale court, Abed succumbs to his evil alter ego, and Troy decides to meet his destiny at air conditioning school. - Director - Writers - Stars - Director - Writers - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro Featured reviews Perhaps part of this was the season trying to have more of a through-line in the season. This it manages, but it wasn't until the season was well underway where I felt it picked up and starting being more consistently funny. Maybe it was the guest stars – all of whom were nice in their moments, but still managed to make the show feel like it was trying too hard to bring them in. This aside, the majority of the season does work very well. Okay the plots being connected does occasionally mean that the free-floating madness of it all is a little lost, but there is enough of that to still make it work. The main cast produce their usual good delivery, and it was fun to see more from Rash and Jeong as the show fills out. As I mentioned, aside from the show feeling a bit like it is pushing the big names, the famous guests are not too distracting and do decent work. Having read that the show's creator left at the end of this season it will be interesting to see what happens into the fourth season; generally the opinion seems to be it is a real step down, which would be a shame since even this slightly weaker third season is enjoyable and funny. Did you know - TriviaIn the first shot of air-conditioner repair class there is a credo on the chalk board, "This is my Limpkin wrench..." That is a parody of The Rifleman's Creed (also known as My Rifle and The Creed of the United States Marine) that begins "This is my rifle...". - GoofsTowards the end of this episode when Britta and Troy hug their arms shift from under Troy's to over Troy's. - Quotes Jeff Winger: Your Honor... I have no closing statement because I'm throwing the case. [People gasp] Jeff Winger: No, no, it's okay. It's fine, don't worry. My client, Shirley Bennett, my friend of three years, she told me that it was okay. She said what I want was more important. She's right, right? I mean, guys like me, we'll tell you there's no right or wrong. There's no real truths. And as long as we all believe that, guys like me can never lose. Because the truth is... I'm lying when I say there is no truth. The truth is... the pathetically, stupidly, inconveniently obvious truth is... helping only ourselves is bad and helping each other is good. Now, I just wanted to get out of here, pass biology, and be a lawyer again, instead of helping Shirley. That was bad. And my former colleague wanted so badly to keep his rich client, that he just asked me to roll over in exchange for my old job. [All gasp] Jeff Winger: So, I guess we all walked in here pretty bad. But now... Shirley's gone good. Shirley's helping me. It's that easy. You just stop thinking about what's good for you, and start thinking about what's good for someone else. And you can change the whole game with one move. Now, if you like this idea, you can make it true by doing something good for everyone here. Throw this case out of court. It's dumb. That is all. Pierce Hawthorne: I withdraw my case! [Turns to Alan] Pierce Hawthorne: Why didn't you just do some inspirational speech about friendship? You're fired. - ConnectionsReferenced in Harmontown: Jim Belushi's Basement (2013) - SoundtracksGreendale Is Where I Belong (uncredited) Performed by Ludwig Göransson
