=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Louis de Broglie (1892 - 1987) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...]
After his doctorate, de Broglie remained at the Sorbonne where he taught for two years, becoming professor of theoretical physics at the Henri Poincaré Institute in 1928.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies//Broglie/

[Louis de Broglie - Biography, Facts and Pictures]
Born in Dieppe, France on 15 August in 1892, Louis de Broglie grew up in a rich, aristocratic family. He chose to study history after passing his school-leaving certificate in 1909 and he obtained a degree in history in 1910. Broglie soon gained an interest in science and acquired a degree in physics in 1913. During the World War I, he was enlisted...
URL: https://www.famousscientists.org/louis-de-broglie/

[Louis-Victor, duke de Broglie summary | Britannica]
Einstein built on de Broglie's idea of "matter-waves"; based on this work, Erwin Schrödinger constructed the system of wave mechanics. De Broglie remained at the Sorbonne after 1924 and taught theoretical physics at the Henri Poincaré Institute (1928-62). He was awarded a Nobel Prize for Physics in 1929 and UNESCO's Kalinga Prize in ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/summary/Louis-de-Broglie

[Journal de Physique Archives]
Journal de Physique archives are full of the biggest names in physics including Curie Langevin de Broglie and more recently Alain Aspect. The bilingual eresource spans 18721997 undoubtedly one of the most exciting and influential periods in physics research. Inv...
URL: https://www.journaldephysique.org/

[Louis Debroglie, French Physicist, Won '29 Nobel for Wave Theory]
Mar 20, 1987 · In 1913, he received a degree in science from the Sorbonne. Much of Prince de Broglie's career was devoted to teaching, first as a lecturer at the Faculty of Sciences, where in 1928 he was...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1987/03/20/obituaries/louis-debroglie-french-physicist-won-29-nobel-for-wave-theory.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Louis de Broglie (1892 - 1987) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...] ---
Louis Victor Pierre Raymond duc de Broglie Quick Info Dieppe, France Paris, France Biography Louis de Broglie's father was Victor, Duc de Broglie, and his mother was Pauline d'Armaillé. Louis studied at the Lycée Janson de Sailly in Paris completing his secondary school education in 1909. At this stage he did not envisage a career in science, but was interested in taking literary studies at university. He entered the Sorbonne in Paris taking a course in history, intending to make for himself a career in the diplomatic service. At the age of 18 he graduated with an arts degree but he was already becoming interested in mathematics and physics. After being assigned a research topic in history he chose, after worrying greatly about the decision, to study for a degree in theoretical physics.In 1913 de Broglie was awarded his Licence ès Sciences but before his career had progressed much further World War I broke out. During the War de Broglie served in the army. He was attached to the wireless telegraphy section for the whole of the war and served in the station at the Eiffel Tower. During these war years all his spare time was spent thinking about technical problems. He explained how he was attracted to mathematical physics after the War (see for example [9]):- When in 1920 I resumed my studies ... what attracted me ... to theoretical physics was ... the mystery in which the structure of matter and of radiation was becoming more and more enveloped as the strange concept of the quantum, introduced by Planck in 1900 in his researches into black-body radiation, daily penetrated further into the whole of physics.Taking up research in mathematical physics, de Broglie nevertheless maintained an interest in experimental physics. His brother Maurice de Broglie was at that time carrying out experimental work on X-rays and this proved a considerable interest to de Broglie during the first few years of the 1920s during which he worked for his doctorate. De Broglie's doctoral thesis Recherches sur la théorie des quanta Ⓣ of 1924 put forward this theory of electron waves, based on the work of Einstein and Planck. It proposed the theory for which he is best known, namely the particle-wave duality theory that matter has the properties of both particles and waves. In a lecture de Broglie gave on the occasion when he received the Nobel Prize in 1929 he explained the background to the ideas contained in his doctoral thesis (see for example [9]):- Thirty years ago, physics was divided into two camps: ... the physics of matter, based on the concepts of particles and atoms which were supposed to obey the laws of classical Newtonian mechanics, and the physics of radiation, based on the idea of wave propagation in a hypothetical continuous medium, the luminous and electromagnetic ether. But these two systems of physics could not remain detached from each other: they had to be united by the formulation of a theory of exchanges of energy between matter and radiation. ... In the attempt to bring the two systems of physics together, conclusions were in fact reached which were neither correct nor even admissible when applied to the energy equilibrium between matter and radiation ... Planck ... assumed ... that a light source ... emits its radiation in equal and finite quantities - in quanta. The success of Planck's ideas has been accompanied by serious consequences. if light is emitted in quanta, must it not, once emitted, possess a corpuscular structure? ... Jeans and Poincaré [showed] that if the motion of the material particles in a source of light took place according to the laws of classical mechanics, then the correct law of black-body radiation, Planck's law, could not be obtained.During an interview in 1963 de Broglie described how, given the above background, his discoveries came about:- As in my conversations with my brother we always arrived at the conclusion that in the case of X-rays one had both waves and corpuscles, thus suddenly - ... it was certain in the course of summer 1923 - I got the idea that one had to extend this duality to material particles, especially to electrons. And I realised that, on the one hand, the Hamilton-Jacobi theory pointed somewhat in that direction, for it can be applied to particles and, in addition, it represents a geometrical optics; on the other hand, in quantum phenomena one obtains quantum numbers, which are rarely found in mechanics but occur very frequently in wave phenomena and in all problems dealing with wave motion.The wave nature of the electron was experimentally confirmed in 1927 by C J Davisson, C H Kunsman and L H Germer in the United States and by G P Thomson (the son of J J Thomson) in Aberdeen, Scotland. De Broglie's theory of electron matter waves was later used by Schrödinger, Dirac and others to develop wave mechanics. After his doctorate, de Broglie remained at the Sorbonne where he taught for two years, becoming professor of theoretical physics at the Henri Poincaré Institute in 1928. From 1932 he was also professor of theoretical physics at the Faculté des Sciences at the Sorbonne. De Broglie taught there until he retired in 1962. From 1944 he was a member of the Bureau des Longitudes. In 1945 he became an adviser to the French Atomic Energy Commissariat. His greatest honour was being awarded the Nobel Prize in 1929. We have quoted above from his lecture given at the award ceremony. Let us quote further from the lecture (see for example [9]):- Thus I arrived at the following general idea which has guided my researches: for matter, just as much as for radiation, in particular light, we must introduce at one and the same time the corpuscle concept and the wave concept. In other words, in both cases we must assume the existence of corpuscles accompanied by waves. But corpuscles and waves cannot be independent, since, according to Bohr, they are complementary to each other; consequently it must be possible to establish a certain parallelism between the motion of a corpuscle and the propagation of the wave which is associated with it.After receiving the Nobel Prize in 1929 De Broglie worked on extensions of wave mechanics. Among publications on many topics he published work on Dirac's theory of the electron, on the new theory of light, on Uhlenbeck's theory of spin, and on applications of wave mechanics to nuclear physics. He wrote at least twenty-five books including Ondes et mouvements Ⓣ (1926), La mécanique ondulatoire Ⓣ (1928), Une tentative d'interprétation causale et non linéaire de la mécanique ondulatoire: la théorie de la double solution Ⓣ (1956), Introduction à la nouvelle théorie des particules de M Jean-Pierre Vigier et de ses collaborateurs Ⓣ (1961), Étude critique des bases de l'interprétation actuelle de la mécanique ondulatoire Ⓣ (1963). The last three mentioned books were published in English translations as Non-linear Wave Mechanics: A Causal Interpretation (1960), Introduction to the Vigier Theory of elementary particles (1963), and The Current Interpretation of Wave Mechanics: A Critical Study (1964). He wrote many popular works which demonstrate his interest in the philosophical implications of modern physics, including Matter and Light: The New Physics (1939); The Revolution in Physics (1953); Physics and Microphysics (1960); and New Perspectives in Physics (1962). In 1933 de Broglie was elected to the Académie des Sciences becoming Permanent Secretary for the mathematical sciences in 1942. The Académie awarded him its Henri Poincaré Medal in 1929 and the Albert I of Monaco Prize in 1932. Other honours which he received included the Kalinga Prize which was awarded to him by UNESCO in 1952 for his efforts towards the understanding of modern physics by the general public. The French National Scientific Research Centre awarded him its gold medal in 1956. Further honours included the awarding of the Grand Cross of the Légion d'Honneur and Belgium made him an Officer of the Order of Leopold. He received honorary doctorates from the Universities of Warsaw, Bucharest, Athens, Lausanne, Quebec, and Brussels. He was elected to honorary membership of eighteen academies and learned societies in Europe, India, and the United States. De Broglie described himself as:- ... having much more the state of mind of a pure theoretician than that of an experimenter or engineer, loving especially the general and philosophical view ... .The central question in de Broglie's life was whether the statistical nature of atomic physics reflects an ignorance of the underlying theory or whether statistics is all that can be known. For most of his life he believed the former although as a young researcher he had at first believed that the statistics hide our ignorance. Perhaps surprisingly, he returned to this view late in his life stating that:- ... the statistical theories hide a completely determined and ascertainable reality behind variables which elude our experimental techniques.Let us end our biography with the tribute paid to de Broglie by C W Oseen, Chairman of the Nobel Committee for Physics of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences:- When quite young you threw yourself into the controversy raging round the most profound problem in physics. You had the boldness to assert, without the support of any known fact, that matter had not only a corpuscular nature, but also a wave nature. Experiment came later and established the correctness of your view. You have covered in fresh glory a name already crowned for centuries with honour. References (show) - J L Heilbron, A R Weill-Brunschvicg, Biography in Dictionary of Scientific Biography (New York 1970-1990). See THIS LINK. - Biography in Encyclopaedia Britannica. https://www.britannica.com/biography/Louis-de-Broglie - B L Cline, The Questioners: Physicists and the Quantum Theory (1965). - Louis de Broglie que nous avons connu, Fondation Louis de Broglie (Paris, 1988). - A Abragam, Louis de Broglie : la grandeur et la solitude, La Recherche 245 (1992), 918-923. - S Colombo, Louis de Broglie 1892-1987, Revue des questions scientifiques 162 (1991), 349-359. - M Eberhardt, La France a perdu un genie, Science et vie 836 (1987), 10-25, 160. - L de Guitton, Le duc Louis de Broglie : témoignage sur l'homme que j'ai connu, Comptes rendus de l'Academie des sciences 9 (1992), 331-334. - N H de V Heathcote, Prince Louis-Victor de Broglie, Nobel prize winners in physics, 1901-1950 (New York, 1953), 287-296. - L Michel, Louis de Broglie : le savant, La Recherche 245 (1992), 923-. Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Louis de Broglie: Other websites about Louis de Broglie: Honours (show) Honours awarded to Louis de Broglie Cross-references (show) - History Topics: A history of Quantum Mechanics - History Topics: Light through the ages: Relativity and quantum era - History Topics: Wave versus matrix mechanics - Societies: Pontifical Academy of Sciences - Other: Jeff Miller's postage stamps - Other: Linda Hall Library links - Other: Royal Society obituaries - Other: Royal Society obituaries (chron) - Other: Sci Hi blog links Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update May 2001 Last Update May 2001


--- [Louis de Broglie - Biography, Facts and Pictures] ---
Louis de Broglie (In full:Louis-Victor-Pierre-Raymond, 7th duc de Broglie) was an eminent French physicist. He gained worldwide acclaim for his groundbreaking work on quantum theory. In his 1924 thesis, he discovered the wave nature of electrons and suggested that all matter have wave properties. He won the 1929 Nobel Prize for Physics. Early Life and Education: Born in Dieppe, France on 15 August in 1892, Louis de Broglie grew up in a rich, aristocratic family. He chose to study history after passing his school-leaving certificate in 1909 and he obtained a degree in history in 1910. Broglie soon gained an interest in science and acquired a degree in physics in 1913. During the World War I, he was enlisted in the French Army. He was posted in the Eiffel Tower, where he had plenty of time to carry out experiments in radio communications and engineering. After the war, Broglie started working with his brother, Maurice, in his lab. Contributions and Achievements: Most of the work in Maurice’s lab involved X-rays, which made Louis think about the dual nature of light; more particularly the wave–particle duality. Broglie soon suggested in his thesis for a doctorate degree that matter, also, might behave in a similar manner. His thesis, “Recherches sur la théorie des quanta” (Research on the Theory of the Quanta), centered on his revolutionary theory of electron waves. When the French Academy became aware of his theory of electron waves, it caught Albert Einstein’s attention, who had high praise for Broglie’s bold ideas. That inspired the birth of wave mechanics. Broglie’s theory resolved and offered an explanation to a question that was brought up by calculations of the motion of electrons within the atom. It was later independently proved in 1927 by G.P. Thomson and Clinton Davisson and Lester Germer that matter actually could show wave-like characteristics. Louis de Broglie won the 1929 Nobel Prize in Physics for his amazing work. Broglie stayed at the Sorbonne after earning his doctorate, being appointed a professor of theoretical physics at the newly-established Henri Poincaré Institute in 1928, where he remained until his retirement in 1962. Later Life and Death: Louis de Broglie acted as an adviser to the French Atomic Energy Commissariat after 1945. He won the Kalinga Prize by UNESCO in 1952, and became a foreign member of the British Royal Society, as well as the French Academy of Sciences. Broglie died on March 19, 1987 in Louveciennes, France. He was 94 years old. Works: His most important publications are: Recherches sur la théorie des quanta (Researches on the quantum theory), 1924. Ondes et mouvements (Waves and motions), Gauthier-Villars, 1926. La mécanique ondulatoire (Wave mechanics), Gauthier-Villars, 1928. Non-linear Wave Mechanics: A Causal Interpretation, 1960 Introduction to the Vigier Theory of elementary particles, 1963


--- [Louis-Victor, duke de Broglie summary | Britannica] ---
Louis-Victor, duke de Broglie, (born Aug. 15, 1892, Dieppe, France—died March 19, 1987, Paris), French physicist. A descendant of the de Broglie family of diplomats and politicians, he was inspired to study atomic physics by the work of Max Planck and Albert Einstein. In his doctoral thesis he described his theory of electron waves, then extended the wave-particle duality theory of light to matter. He is noted both for his discovery of the wave nature of electrons and for his research on quantum theory. Einstein built on de Broglie’s idea of “matter-waves”; based on this work, Erwin Schrödinger constructed the system of wave mechanics. De Broglie remained at the Sorbonne after 1924 and taught theoretical physics at the Henri Poincaré Institute (1928–62). He was awarded a Nobel Prize for Physics in 1929 and UNESCO’s Kalinga Prize in 1952. Louis-Victor, duke de Broglie summary Below is the article summary. For the full article, see Louis de Broglie. Nobel Prize Summary Nobel Prize, any of the prizes (five in number until 1969, when a sixth was added) that are awarded annually from a fund bequeathed for that purpose by the Swedish inventor and industrialist Alfred Nobel. The Nobel Prizes are widely regarded as the most prestigious awards given for intellectual physics Summary Physics, science that deals with the structure of matter and the interactions between the fundamental constituents of the observable universe. In the broadest sense, physics (from the Greek physikos) is concerned with all aspects of nature on both the macroscopic and submicroscopic levels. Its


--- [Journal de Physique Archives] ---
Journal de Physique Théorique et Appliquée 1872-1919 Série I-V J. Ch. D'Almeida The Journal de Physique (and its archives) is one of the numerous predecessor journals that now constitute the European Physical Journal EPJ B, D, E, AP, ST and EPL (Europhysics Letters). Invest in Nobel-winning physics: 50% discount on an outright purchase of the Journal de Physique digital archives. For more information, contact Nathalie Clément. Researchers seek the highest quality physics regardless of where or when it was published or the language of publication. The Journal de Physique archives are full of the biggest names in physics including Curie, Langevin, de Broglie and, more recently, Alain Aspect. This bi-lingual e-resource spans 1872-1997 – undoubtedly, one of the most exciting and influential periods in physics research. Find out more about the history of the Journal de Physique archives. 1872-1919 Série I-V J. Ch. D'Almeida 1904-1920 Tome I-XV Henri Fardas 1920-1963 Série VI-VIII Paul Langevin 1963-1990 Tome 24-51 1951-1964 Tome 13-26 1966-1990 Tome 9-19 1974-1985 Tome 36-46 1991-1997 Denis Jérôme 1966-1990 Tome 1-25 1991-2006 Vol 1-12 1991-1997 Vol 1-7 View the full video of "L'amour de notre science" here. View the full EDP Sciences 100th anniversary film here. “There is undoubtedly educational value to reading ‘legacy papers’, and this holds true for articles written in any language.” Gaia Donati, Discovery through multi-lingual science archives, Research Information To find out more about the other EDP Sciences physics and materials science archives and the value of archives, visit our general Archives page. Alternatively, contact Nathalie Clément to discuss the Journal de Physique archives which are available as an outright purchase or subscription. “Resources such as the EDP Sciences archives demonstrate that English is not the sole language of science. Moreover, given the high quality and wide availability of translation technology, materials in languages other than English are no longer inaccessible to English-only readers. Scientific findings reported in languages other than English enrich science and its communication.” Gaia Donati, Discovery through multi-lingual science archives, Research Information


--- [Louis Debroglie, French Physicist, Won '29 Nobel for Wave Theory] ---
Supported by LOUIS DEBROGLIE, FRENCH PHYSICIST, WON '29 NOBEL FOR WAVE THEORY Louis de Broglie, a French physicist who won the 1929 Nobel Prize for work in wave mechanics, died Thursday at a hospital in Paris, his relatives announced. He was 94 years old. ''The death of Louis de Broglie marks the disappearance of one of the most brilliant pioneers in contemporary physics,'' said Jean-Claude Lehmann, director of the physics department at France's National Center for Scientific Research. Louis de Broglie belonged to a noble family, originally from the Piedmont in Italy, that had founded a French branch before the 18th century and produced prominent French military, political and scientific figures. He was known as Prince most of his life, but in 1960, on the death of his elder brother, Maurice, a fellow physicist, he was designated Duke, the title traditionally held by the head of the family. His work leading to the Nobel Prize was associated with the early evolution of quantum theory, a physical theory concerned with the emission and absorption of energy by matter and with the motion of material particles. Early quantum theory said that waves sometimes behaved like particles. In 1923, the Prince de Broglie showed mathematically that particles, in turn, should exhibit wavelike properties, a prediction that led to the development of the field of wave mechanics. The idea that there was a universal link between particles and waves was confirmed experimentally by others in 1927, and Prince de Broglie won the Nobel award for his theory. Related Content Advertisement
