=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Disney Channel Halts Broadcasting in Russia - AllEars.Net]
Dec 3, 2022 · Back in March, Disney announced that it would be pausing all business in Russia due to the country’s invasion of Ukraine. According to Reuters, Disney Channel will stop broadcasting in Russia on December 14th.
URL: https://allears.net/2022/12/03/disney-channel-halts-broadcasting-in-russia/

[Disney Channel to stop in Russia - Broadband TV News]
Dec 5, 2022 · Disney Channel will no longer be available in Russia from December 14. According to Kommersant, it will be replaced by a channel named Solntse, operated by the Media group in partnership with...
URL: https://www.broadbandtvnews.com/2022/12/05/disney-channel-to-stop-in-russia/

[Disney Channel to stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14 - Kommersant]
Dec 2, 2022 · Disney Channel will stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14, the Kommersant newspaper reported on Friday, citing other media.
URL: https://www.reuters.com/business/media-telecom/disney-channel-stop-broadcasting-russia-dec-14-kommersant-2022-12-02/

[Disney channel to stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14]
Dec 5, 2022 · Disney Channel will stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14, the Kommersant newspaper reported on Friday, citing other media. According to the report, it will be replaced by a new children’s channel called “Solntse”, which means “sun” in Russian.
URL: https://www.broadcastandcablesat.co.in/disney-channel-to-stop-broadcasting-in-russia-from-dec-14/

[Disney Channel (Russia)]
The channel ceased broadcasting on 14 December 2022, with its last program being Gravity Falls.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disney_Channel_(Russia)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Disney Channel Halts Broadcasting in Russia - AllEars.Net] ---
It’s our job to keep an eye on all things Disney. That means news from the parks, news inside the company, streaming news, and everything in between. We’ve got a new update on Disney’s business in Russia to share with you today. Back in March, Disney announced that it would be pausing all business in Russia due to the country’s invasion of Ukraine. According to Reuters, Disney Channel will stop broadcasting in Russia on December 14th. The Kommersant newspaper reported on Friday that Disney Channel will be replaced by a new children’s channel called “Solntse“, which is the English equivalent of the word “sun.” When Disney announced the pause in March, they mentioned that some of the halts of streaming could take time due to previous contractual agreements. The Walt Disney Company was “not immediately available to comment” according to Reuters. Disney Channel originally started airing in Russia in 2010. To stay updated on the latest Disney news, be sure to stay tuned to AllEars. Now that Bob Iger is Disney’s CEO again, here’s what could actually change. Join the AllEars.net Newsletter to stay on top of ALL the breaking Disney News! You'll also get access to AllEars tips, reviews, trivia, and MORE! Click here to Subscribe! How do you feel about this news? Tell us in the comments below.


--- [Disney Channel to stop in Russia - Broadband TV News] ---
Disney Channel will no longer be available in Russia from December 14. According to Kommersant, it will be replaced by a channel named Solntse, operated by the Media group in partnership with Mercury Content. Media1 owns 80% of The Disney Channel in Russia, with the remaining 20% owned by The Walt Disney Company. Meanwhile, Mercury Content was founded by the producer Eduard Iloyan. Disney Channel airs content from both Walt Disney Pictures and other producers, including Russian ones, and according to Mediascope was the second highest rated children’s channel in Russia in October. Broadband TV News notes that The Walt Disney Company said in March that it was suspending its operations in Russia as a result of the country’s invasion of Ukraine. However, some of its services, including Disney Channel, have remained available in the country.


--- [Disney Channel to stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14 - Kommersant] ---
Dec 2 (Reuters) - Disney Channel will stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14, the Kommersant newspaper reported on Friday, citing other media. According to the report, it will be replaced by a new children's channel called "Solntse", which means "sun" in Russian. Sign up here. Reuters was not able to independently verify the report. The Walt Disney Company (DIS.N) was not immediately available to comment. The Walt Disney Company said in March that it was pausing all business in Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, including content and product licensing, but that some channels would take time to pause due to contractual nuances. Disney Channel was first granted approval to broadcast in Russia in 2010, and aired Disney shows, animations and films. Reporting by Reuters Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


--- [Disney channel to stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14] ---
International Circuit Disney channel to stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14 Disney Channel will stop broadcasting in Russia from Dec. 14, the Kommersant newspaper reported on Friday, citing other media. According to the report, it will be replaced by a new children’s channel called “Solntse”, which means “sun” in Russian. Reuters was not able to independently verify the report. The Walt Disney Company was not immediately available to comment. The Walt Disney Company said in March that it was pausing all business in Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, including content and product licensing, but that some channels would take time to pause due to contractual nuances. Disney Channel was first granted approval to broadcast in Russia in 2010, and aired Disney shows, animations and films. US News


--- [Disney Channel (Russia)] ---
Disney Channel (Russian: Канал Disney, romanized: Kanal Disney) was a Russian free-to-air television channel, serving as a local version of the American Disney Channel. It was launched as a pay television channel on 10 August 2010. On 31 December 2011, after acquiring the Russian free-to-air television network Semyorka, Disney Channel was launched in its place, becoming the second Disney Channel feed to be broadcast on free-to-air national television, after Spain and before Turkey and Germany. The channel ceased broadcasting on 14 December 2022, due to content licensing issues. 
The channel targeted viewers aged 10 to 45 and aired popular animated series, live-action shows, and films, including both Disney originals and Russian-produced content.
