=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[J&K LG inaugurates multiplex in Srinagar, city's first in 3 decades | J&K LG Manoj Sinha inaugurates multiplex in Srinagar]
Sep 20, 2022 · Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday (September 20) inaugurated a multiplex in Srinagar, the city’s first in over three decades. During the inaugural ceremony, Sinha said cinemas would now open in every district of Jammu and Kashmir.
URL: https://thefederal.com/states/north/jammu-and-kashmir/jk-lg-inaugurates-multiplex-in-srinagar-citys-first-in-3-decades

[Cinema opens in Kashmir city after 14 years but few turn up]
A security guard stands at the newly constructed 'INOX' multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years.
URL: https://apnews.com/article/entertainment-movies-kashmir-56125f443e03b1e14c262e65595fcbe8

[LG Sinha inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar]
Sep 20, 2022 · SRINAGAR, SEPT 20 – Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added.
URL: https://srinagarobserver.com/2022/09/20/lg-sinha-inaugurates-inox-multiplex-theatre-in-srinagar/

[Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar ...]
Sep 20, 2022 · Congratulating the people, Sh Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added. The Lt Governor observed that the opening of multipurpose Cinema Halls in Shopian, Pulwama and the first-ever Multiplex ...
URL: https://kashmirdotcom.in/2022/09/20/lt-governor-inaugurates-inox-multiplex-theatre-in-srinagar-congratulates-people-sh-vijay-dhar-inox-group/

[LG inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar; Congratulates people, Vijay Dhar and INOX Group - Daily Excelsior]
A major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years. It is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence & aspirations of people: LG Land identified for developing Film City in the UT: LG SRINAGAR, SEPTEMBER 20: Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the ...
URL: https://www.dailyexcelsior.com/lg-inaugurates-inox-multiplex-theatre-in-srinagar-congratulates-people-vijay-dhar-and-inox-group/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [J&K LG inaugurates multiplex in Srinagar, city's first in 3 decades | J&K LG Manoj Sinha inaugurates multiplex in Srinagar] ---
J&K LG inaugurates multiplex in Srinagar, city's first in 3 decades Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday (September 20) inaugurated a multiplex in Srinagar, the city’s first in over three decades. During the inaugural ceremony, Sinha said cinemas would now open in every district of Jammu and Kashmir. The INOX multiplex which has a total seating capacity of 520, is owned by a Kashmiri Pandit business family from Srinagar. The project took a total of five years for completion. Inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulations to the people, Sh. Vijay Dhar & INOX Group. A major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years. It is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people. pic.twitter.com/VhdiVTHhQw — Office of LG J&K (@OfficeOfLGJandK) September 20, 2022 Also Read: After almost 3 decades, Jammu and Kashmir gets cinema halls Lal Singh Chaddha, starring Aamir Khan, was screened during the inaugural show. Cinema halls in Jammu and Kashmir had closed down in the 1990s with the onset of militancy. Though efforts for revival were made in 1999, with theaters like, Neelam, Regal and Broadway opening in Srinagar, the attack on Regal cinema which led to the death of one person, again led to a closure. Also Read: LG Sinha inaugurates cinema halls in J-Ks Pulwama, Shopian; says theatres in every district soon Vikas Dhar, owner of the multiplex, told the media that it is like a dream come true. “Regular shows will start from September 30, sitting in the cinema will be a new experience for movie buffs. We have installed state-of-the-art equipment. And it will all be a different experience from what it used to be 30 years ago in cinema halls in Kashmir,” he said. LG Manoj Sinha had last week inaugurated multipurpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Yesterday inaugurated Multipurpose Cinema Halls at Pulwama and Shopian. It offers facilities ranging from movie screening, infotainment and skilling of youth. pic.twitter.com/rsCzxgqNwL — Manoj Sinha (@manojsinha_) September 19, 2022


--- [Cinema opens in Kashmir city after 14 years but few turn up] ---
Cinema opens in Kashmir city after 14 years but few turn up Cinema opens in Kashmir city after 14 years but few turn up A paramilitary soldier stands guard outside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard stands at the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard frisks a Kashmiri at the entrance of Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema after it was opened to public for the first time in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard watches the trailer on a screen as engineers check for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Paramilitary soldiers stand guard outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Manoj Sinha, Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, addresses the gathering after inaugurating Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Tuesday, Sept. 20, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Laborers work outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Journalists record with their cellphone as engineers play a trailer of a Bollywood movie to check for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Vijay Dhar, owner of newly constructed multiplex, speaks on a video call ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Laborers work outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A view of the seating arrangement inside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Employees of the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex work inside the ticket counter ahead of the inauguration in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) An engineer plays a trailer of a Bollywood movie from a laptop as he checks for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard checks the invitation of a Kashmiri journalist as a policeman stands guard near at the entrance of the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Security guards stand guard outside Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema after it was opened to public in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Paramilitary soldiers stand guard outside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) An engineer tests a projector at the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A media person reports from inside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Tuesday, Sept. 20, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A paramilitary soldier stands guard outside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A paramilitary soldier stands guard outside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard stands at the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard stands at the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard frisks a Kashmiri at the entrance of Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema after it was opened to public for the first time in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard frisks a Kashmiri at the entrance of Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema after it was opened to public for the first time in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard watches the trailer on a screen as engineers check for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard watches the trailer on a screen as engineers check for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Paramilitary soldiers stand guard outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Paramilitary soldiers stand guard outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Manoj Sinha, Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, addresses the gathering after inaugurating Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Tuesday, Sept. 20, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Manoj Sinha, Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, addresses the gathering after inaugurating Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Tuesday, Sept. 20, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Laborers work outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Laborers work outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Journalists record with their cellphone as engineers play a trailer of a Bollywood movie to check for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Journalists record with their cellphone as engineers play a trailer of a Bollywood movie to check for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Vijay Dhar, owner of newly constructed multiplex, speaks on a video call ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Vijay Dhar, owner of newly constructed multiplex, speaks on a video call ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Laborers work outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Laborers work outside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A view of the seating arrangement inside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A view of the seating arrangement inside the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Employees of the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex work inside the ticket counter ahead of the inauguration in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Employees of the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex work inside the ticket counter ahead of the inauguration in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) An engineer plays a trailer of a Bollywood movie from a laptop as he checks for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) An engineer plays a trailer of a Bollywood movie from a laptop as he checks for sound and picture quality ahead of the inauguration of ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard checks the invitation of a Kashmiri journalist as a policeman stands guard near at the entrance of the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A security guard checks the invitation of a Kashmiri journalist as a policeman stands guard near at the entrance of the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Security guards stand guard outside Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema after it was opened to public in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Security guards stand guard outside Kashmir’s first multiplex cinema after it was opened to public in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Saturday, Oct. 1, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Paramilitary soldiers stand guard outside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) Paramilitary soldiers stand guard outside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Friday, Sept. 30, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) An engineer tests a projector at the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) An engineer tests a projector at the newly constructed ‘INOX’ multiplex in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Monday, Sept. 19, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A media person reports from inside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Tuesday, Sept. 20, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) A media person reports from inside the first multiplex cinema of Kashmir in Srinagar in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Tuesday, Sept. 20, 2022. The multi-screen cinema hall has opened in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for public for the first time in 14 years. The 520-seat hall with three screens opened on Saturday, Oct. 1, amid elaborate security but only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show. (AP Photo/Dar Yasin) SRINAGAR, India (AP) — A multi-screen cinema hall opened on Saturday in the main city of Indian-controlled Kashmir for the first time in 14 years in the government’s push to showcase normalcy in the disputed region that was brought under India’s direct rule three years ago. Decades of a deadly conflict, bombings and brutal Indian counterinsurgency campaign have turned people away from cinemas, and only about a dozen viewers lined up for the first morning show, the Bollywood action movie “Vikram Vedha.” The 520-seat hall with three screens opened under elaborate security in Srinagar’s high security zone that also houses India’s military regional headquarters. “There are different viewpoints about (cinema) but I think it’s a good thing,” said moviegoer Faheem, who gave only one name. “It’s a sign of progress.” Others at the show declined to comment. The afternoon and evening shows had less than 10% occupancy on Saturday, according to India’s premier movie booking website in.bookmyshow.com. The multiplex was officially inaugurated on Sept. 20 by Manoj Sinha, New Delhi’s top administrator in Kashmir. The cinema is part of Indian multiplex chain Inox in partnership with a Kashmiri businessman. After Kashmiri militants rose up against Indian rule in 1989, launching a bloody insurgency that was met with a brutal response by Indian troops, the once-thriving city of Srinagar wilted. The city’s eight privately owned movie theaters closed on the orders of rebels, saying they were vehicles of India’s cultural invasion and anti-Islamic. In the early 1990s, government forces converted most of the city’s theaters into makeshift security camps, detention or interrogation centers. Soon, places where audiences thronged to Bollywood blockbusters became feared buildings, where witnesses say torture was commonplace. However, three cinema halls, backed by government financial assistance, reopened in 1999 amid an official push to project the idea that life had returned to normal in Kashmir. Soon after, a bombing outside one hall in the heart of Srinagar killed a civilian and wounded many others and shut it again. Weary Kashmiris largely stayed away, and the other hall locked its doors within a year. One theater, the Neelam, stuck it out until 2008. Officials said the government is planning to establish cinemas in every district of the region, where tens of thousands have been killed in the armed conflict since 1989. Last month, Sinha also inaugurated two multipurpose halls in the southern districts of Shopian and Pulwama, considered as hotbeds of armed rebellion. “The government is committed to change perceptions about Jammu and Kashmir, and we know people want entertainment and they want to watch movies,” Sinha told reporters at the inauguration. In 2019, India revoked the region’s semi-autonomy and brought it under direct control, throwing Kashmir under a severe security and communication lockdown. The region has remained on edge ever since as authorities also put in place a slew of new laws, which critics and many residents fear could change the region’s demographics.


--- [LG Sinha inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar] ---
SRINAGAR, SEPT 20 – Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added. The Lt Governor observed that the opening of multipurpose Cinema Halls in Shopian, Pulwama and the first-ever Multiplex Cinema Hall in Srinagar today marks the revival of cinema culture in the Kashmir valley after three decades, he added. Culture is a way of life and Cinema being the powerful medium of sharing thoughts and ideas reflects societal values and change. Cinema brings people together. Apart from entertainment it gives hopes, dreams and inspiration to youth to pursue their dreams till they realise it,” Lt Governor said. Following the inauguration of two multi-purpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian, the UT Government is building multi-purpose cinema halls in all the districts of J&K. Young generation have a strong urge to see a better society, to learn about other cultures, to become part of inter-dependent world. And, it is the responsibility of the administration to provide them opportunities and support,’ the Lt Governor added. The new cinema halls and ongoing film shootings will renew the beautiful bond between Jammu Kashmir and the Indian Film Industry, he further added. The Lt Governor said that the new Film Policy has been rolled out with special provisions and incentives for encouraging local youth to take up film as a career. We are in talks with various stakeholders and have identified the land for developing Film City in the UT and the facility will come-up in the UT soon, announced the Lt Governor. Under the guidance of Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi we have accelerated the pace of implementation of numerous developmental initiatives. After august 2019, a new social order has been established in J&K which promotes inclusive development, social harmony and equitable access to resources for all citizens without any discrimination. J&K UT is today stronger and more self-confident than ever before, the Lt Governor said. Subhash Chandra, Former Member Parliament, Rajya Sabha and Chairman Essel Group, congratulated the J&K Government and everyone associated with the newly inaugurated multiplex on the occasion. He also lauded the UT Administration for the transformation taking place in Kashmir, through opening of cinema halls, which has a great legacy of film-making and a massive film loving population. Rajat Sharma, Editor-In-Chief and Chairman, India TV, said that the Cinema is the perfect medium to unite people. He appreciated the efforts of the Lt Governor and the UT administration for creating facilities to cater the needs of the Indian Film-Industry and reviving a new-era of cinema in Kashmir. Siddharth Jain, Executive Director, INOX Group, while speaking on the occasion, said that the launch of the new multiplex theatre in Kashmir will make the region be a part of country’s creative economy and contribute to strengthening the soft power of the country. With ‘MYOUN INOX, MYOUN Cinema’, we are also looking to win the hearts of cinema lovers of Kashmir by offering them a world-class cinema-viewing experience, amalgamation of top-notch technology, great hospitality, best of cinema comforts, a blend of local designs, Dolby Atmos audio technology, latest 3D & projection technology and a professionally trained team. We are also looking forward to taking our artistic learning from Kashmir to the world, he said. Vijay Dhar, Chairman DPS and owner of Broadway theatre expressed gratitude to the Lt Governor led UT administration and the INOX group for bringing back the joy of movie-viewing in cinema halls to Kashmir. He also threw light on the golden era of cinema and film-shooting in Jammu Kashmir. To mark this momentous occasion, a special screening was held for the cinema lovers of the region. Junaid Azim Mattu, Mayor SMC; Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, Advisor to Lt Governor; Dr Hina Shafi Bhat, Vice Chairperson, J&K KVIB; Pandurang K. Pole, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir; Vijay Kumar, ADGP Kashmir; Mohammad Aijaz, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar; senior officials of civil administration, police and army, besides prominent citizens were present on the occasion.


--- [Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar ...] ---
No content


--- [LG inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar; Congratulates people, Vijay Dhar and INOX Group - Daily Excelsior] ---
- A major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years. It is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence & aspirations of people: LG - Land identified for developing Film City in the UT: LG SRINAGAR, SEPTEMBER 20: Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added. The Lt Governor observed that the opening of multipurpose Cinema Halls in Shopian, Pulwama and the first-ever Multiplex Cinema Hall in Srinagar today marks the revival of cinema culture in the Kashmir valley after three decades, he added. Culture is a way of life and Cinema being the powerful medium of sharing thoughts and ideas reflects societal values and change. Cinema brings people together. Apart from entertainment it gives hopes, dreams and inspiration to youth to pursue their dreams till they realise it,” Lt Governor said. Following the inauguration of two multi-purpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian, the UT Government is building multi-purpose cinema halls in all the districts of J&K. Young generation have a strong urge to see a better society, to learn about other cultures, to become part of inter-dependent world. And, it is the responsibility of the administration to provide them opportunities and support,’ the Lt Governor added. The new cinema halls and ongoing film shootings will renew the beautiful bond between Jammu Kashmir and the Indian Film Industry, he further added. The Lt Governor said that the new Film Policy has been rolled out with special provisions and incentives for encouraging local youth to take up film as a career. We are in talks with various stakeholders and have identified the land for developing Film City in the UT and the facility will come-up in the UT soon, announced the Lt Governor. Under the guidance of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi we have accelerated the pace of implementation of numerous developmental initiatives. After august 2019, a new social order has been established in J&K which promotes inclusive development, social harmony and equitable access to resources for all citizens without any discrimination. J&K UT is today stronger and more self-confident than ever before, the Lt Governor said. Subhash Chandra, Former Member Parliament, Rajya Sabha and Chairman Essel Group, congratulated the J&K Government and everyone associated with the newly inaugurated multiplex on the occasion. He also lauded the UT Administration for the transformation taking place in Kashmir, through opening of cinema halls, which has a great legacy of film-making and a massive film loving population. Rajat Sharma, Editor-In-Chief and Chairman, India TV, said that the Cinema is the perfect medium to unite people. He appreciated the efforts of the Lt Governor and the UT administration for creating facilities to cater the needs of the Indian Film-Industry and reviving a new-era of cinema in Kashmir. Siddharth Jain, Executive Director, INOX Group, while speaking on the occasion, said that the launch of the new multiplex theatre in Kashmir will make the region be a part of country’s creative economy and contribute to strengthening the soft power of the country. With ‘MYOUN INOX, MYOUN Cinema’, we are also looking to win the hearts of cinema lovers of Kashmir by offering them a world-class cinema-viewing experience, amalgamation of top-notch technology, great hospitality, best of cinema comforts, a blend of local designs, Dolby Atmos audio technology, latest 3D & projection technology and a professionally trained team. We are also looking forward to taking our artistic learning from Kashmir to the world, he said. Vijay Dhar, Chairman DPS and owner of Broadway theatre expressed gratitude to the Lt Governor led UT administration and the INOX group for bringing back the joy of movie-viewing in cinema halls to Kashmir. He also threw light on the golden era of cinema and film-shooting in Jammu Kashmir. To mark this momentous occasion, a special screening was held for the cinema lovers of the region. Junaid Azim Mattu, Mayor SMC; Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, Advisor to Lt Governor; Dr Hina Shafi Bhat, Vice Chairperson, J&K KVIB; Pandurang K. Pole, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir; Vijay Kumar, ADGP Kashmir; Mohammad Aijaz, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar; senior officials of civil administration, police and army, besides prominent citizens were present on the occasion.
