=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Centro Botín Welcomed 150,000 Visitors in 2022, 35% More Than the ...]
Jan 19, 2023 · Later on in the year, on 7 October, the first exhibition by Tino Sehgal in Spain will be unveiled, and it is set to be a show-stopper with his “Constructed Situations”, which involves live performances.
URL: https://www.centrobotin.org/en/centro-botin-welcomed-150000-visitors-in-2022-35-more-than-the-previous-year-and-doubling-the-percentage-of-visitors-from-abroad/

[New Martin Creed exhibition AMIGOS opens this April]
Centro Botín is a major new visual art centre in Santander, Spain, which opened in 2017, developed by Fundación Botín, a philanthropic Spanish institution founded in 1964. The building, as well as the urban intervention within which it is located, linking the city centre and its bay, has been designed by the renowned architect Renzo Piano.
URL: https://fadmagazine.com/2019/03/25/new-martin-creed-exhibition-amigos-opens-this-april/

[Home - Centro Botin]
Centro Botn is an arts centre designed by Pritzker Prizewinner architect Renzo Piano in collaboration with Luis Vidal and Architects. The Fundacin organises programmes in the realms of the arts and culture education science and rural development and supports soc...
URL: https://www.centrobotin.org/en/

["I wanna do things that make me happy": Martin Creed in conversation ...]
Visiting Santander's Centro Botín gallery the day before Martin Creed's Amigos show opens, the press representative informs me that we simply have to take the lift - despite the fact that we have no need to go upstairs. The gallery is closed at this point, empty besides an employee who joins ...
URL: https://www.itsnicethat.com/features/martin-creed-amigos-centro-botin-in-conversation-art-010719

[The biggest news events of 2022 - in pictures | World Economic...]
Dec 16, 2022 · The year 2022 has been full of rapid and unexpected changes. From severe flooding in Pakistan to the death of Queen Elizabeth II, these 10 pictures cover major news events from the past 12 months.
URL: https://www.weforum.org/stories/2022/12/2022-what-happened-this-year-pictures/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Centro Botín Welcomed 150,000 Visitors in 2022, 35% More Than the ...] ---
No content


--- [New Martin Creed exhibition AMIGOS opens this April] ---
Martin-Creed-Portrait (c) Hugo Glendinning Martin Creed has a new exhibition AMIGOS opening at Centro Botín in Santander, Spain this April. AMIGOS will be a site-wide commission, stretching from the surrounding Pereda Gardens all the way into the second-floor galleries of Centro Botín, by way of the lift and lobbies, Martin Creed will break down the physical and institutional boundaries between the galleries and the rest of the building, including live performances of a new work by roving musicians; the creation of monumental wall paintings that will cover every inch of the walls of the galleries and the surrounding spaces on the second floor, and with gallery staff wearing uniforms painted by Creed. At each end of the gallery, the views from the large bay windows over the Santander Bay and the gardens have been incorporated into this unique show. The project is curated by Benjamin Weil, Artistic Director of Centro Botín. Speaking about the show, Benjamin Weil, said: “This pluridiscliplinary and multi-dimensional project invites visitors to reconsider their environment, drawing attention not just to the humblest details of the architectural elements of the building that are often overlooked, but also to the gallery attendants themselves, fostering a more acute and attentive look at what are generally regarded as the most menial aspects of the environment. We are especially delighted that the work is being developed here at Centro Botín in close collaboration with young artists during Martin Creed’s invited residency as part of our International Artists Workshop programme.” Centro Botín Photo: Enrico Cano Since 1994, the Fundación Botín Visual Arts Workshops have brought together young artists from all over the world with such major creative talents as Tacita Dean, Carlos Garaiocoa, Mona Hatoum, Carsten Höller, Cristina Iglesias, Joan Jonas, Jannis Kounellis, Julie Mehretu, Gabriel Orozco, Juliao Sarmento and Juan Uslé. For his workshop, Martin Creed has invited young artists and musicians to a ten-day session during which they will work on scripting and composing a new piece, whilst also working on their own personal projects under his mentorship. Martin Creed: AMIGOS 6 April to 9 June 2019 Centro Botín, Muelle de Albareda, Jardines de Pereda, 39004 Santander, Spain www.centrobotin.org About The Artist Martin Creed (b. Wakefield 1968) grew up in Glasgow and lives and works in London. He works in a wide range of media including performance, installation, sound, text, sculpture, painting and drawing. His practice has been described as ‘a series of exercises in awareness,’ using commonplace materials and minimal intervention to draw to our attention things that we might otherwise overlook. He came to prominence in 2001 when he won the Turner prize with Work No 227: The lights going on and off, which was subsequently acquired by Tate for its permanent collection. This controversial work involved the lights in an empty gallery being switched on and off at intervals and is typical of the playful and understated nature of Creed’s work. Among his other works are Work No 1119: All the bells in a country rung as quickly and as loudly as possible for three minutes, in which thousands of women, men and children all over the UK took part, simultaneously ringing bells of all kinds, sounding car horns and even banging pots and pans, as a commission for the Cultural Olympiad of the London Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2012. Martin Creed founded his first band, Owada, in 1994 with Adam McEwen and Keiko Owada and in 2011 he set up his own label, Telephone Records. In addition to releasing a series of singles and albums, he has also composed orchestral works, including Work No 955, for Birmingham Symphony Orchestra; Work No 994, for Hiroshima Symphony Orchestra, and Work No 1375, for the London Sinfonietta. Centro Botín Centro Botín is a major new visual art centre in Santander, Spain, which opened in 2017, developed by Fundación Botín, a philanthropic Spanish institution founded in 1964. The building, as well as the urban intervention within which it is located, linking the city centre and its bay, has been designed by the renowned architect Renzo Piano. As well as offering a new wide-open door to art to the people of Santander city and the Cantabria region, it will strengthen the city’s social and cultural fabric and create a new attraction, in an exceptional seaside location, for all who visit Santander from around the world. Led by an outstanding team of international experts, Centro Botín is, first and foremost, dedicated to displaying and supporting art. It also offers educational and wider cultural programmes, many of which link the experience of art to the development of creativity and wellbeing. The building provides a home for the Fundación Botín’s permanent art collection, along with galleries for major exhibitions. Within the gallery spaces, and outside in the newly restored and extended Pereda Gardens, there are also displays of visual art of international calibre, from the historic to the contemporary. The building and its surrounds also offer excellent and generous areas for performance, screenings, education, discussion and creative projects. Centro Botín provides a base from which the Fundación can build on its longstanding support for art and artists, through international exhibitions, workshops and scholarships, and also pursue research into drawing styles of the major Spanish artists of all periods. Centro Botín is a manifestation of the Fundación’s long held belief that seeing art has the power to awaken each individual’s creativity, and a key strand in the programming will be a pioneering research-led training programme to help people develop their emotional intelligence through art. The mission of the Fundación Botín, from its inception in 1964, has been to contribute to society’s development. It does this by helping to generate cultural, social and economic wealth, not only in Cantabria, where it has always been based, but today also across Spain and as far afield as South America. The main focus is on uncovering and supporting creative talent in art, science, education and rural development. It is a potent mix of priorities, resulting in work that has enhanced the lives of many people, worldwide.


--- [Home - Centro Botin] ---
No content


--- ["I wanna do things that make me happy": Martin Creed in conversation ...] ---
- Words - Lucy Bourton - Illustration - Son Eunkyoung - — - Date - 1 July 2019 - Tags “I wanna do things that make me happy”: Martin Creed in conversation with It's Nice That Share Share Visiting Santander’s Centro Botín gallery the day before Martin Creed’s Amigos show opens, the press representative informs me that we simply have to take the lift – despite the fact that we have no need to go upstairs. The gallery is closed at this point, empty besides an employee who joins us and quickly fixes something inside. As the lift begins to rise, it becomes clear why we’re doing this – a group of opera singers chimes in over the PA system, loudly singing “sí, sí, sí” in higher pitches as we ascend, and then “no, no, no” as we head back down. Due to language barriers, there’s no fine-art chat about the concept behind this piece by the exhibiting artist; instead, we all just can’t stop laughing. This is the effect Martin Creed’s work has on you. The British, Turner Prize-winning artist and musician makes things that are inclusive, in the broadest sense of the word, whether you’re one of the world’s most coveted curators (Amigos was curated by the revered Benjamin Weil) or someone who has not the slightest interest in artistic practices. Ever since graduating from the Slade School of Art in 1990, Martin has made work which is inherently human, often picking up on societal behaviours. He’s created pieces in which a light switches on and off, filled gallery rooms with balloons, asked everyone in Britain to ring a bell at once, and constructed light installations to inform passers-by that “Everything Is Going To Be Alright”. But his most recent show at Centro Botín transformed the space, so that it became a work of art in itself. As you entered the garden outside, light fixtures spelt its title in the trees. Inside, you were greeted by staff wearing uniforms splattered in paint, before spotting that the walls were covered in patterns by the artist following a continuous line – other than to make room for a light switch or two. This was all just leading up to the main event, as a group of performers entered the space, playing instruments, sprinting around and performing Martin’s songs. The artist hadn’t just created an exhibition, but facilitated a smile-inducing experience for everyone involved. The following day, in between Martin making final touches and saying hello to his countless new friends in Santander, we sat down to discuss humour, the awkwardness of going to a gallery, job interviews and how to look for joy in life. INT How do you usually feel the day before a show opening? MC Usually quite nervous and excited. But usually by this time it’s too late. I just have to make the best of it now, so in a way it’s easier. It’s like doing a live show, going on stage and whatever happens, if you make mistakes, you just have to accept it. One week before, there’s still time to actually make changes and that’s when a lot of stress happens. That’s why I prefer live shows, because you can’t go back. In a way it’s a relief, but there’s also more adrenaline and it’s more scary in some ways. INT The Amigos show is particularly joyful. Were you hoping that people would find it a joyous experience? MC I hope that people do, yeah! If it’s like that, then I’m happy. I think it’s very difficult to work on things with a predetermined goal. If something makes people laugh, or if it makes them happy, then that to me is brilliant… I wanna do things that make me happy. Usually to me, that comes out of difficulties. Like, feeling bad and wanting to feel better and seeing colours makes me happy. INT There’s also a lot of humour in your work. How would you describe your sense of humour? MC Well, I find it very difficult to talk about being funny or anything like that. I like things that make me laugh. I feel like, if I thought, “I want to make people laugh”, I just wouldn’t even know where to start in terms of doing that. I like things that make me laugh, but I do feel that the only way to work is to work seriously, and then, like I say, if it’s a byproduct of that, then that’s good. INT What makes you really laugh, then? MC Something like, having a laugh in the kitchen sort of thing. Just you know, not some big official comedy, but just joking around about a cup of coffee. Something like that, aye. The little things. “To me, the toilet is almost as good as the gallery, if not more helpful in fact.” Martin Creed INT Earlier you mentioned how visiting galleries can be a self-conscious experience, and you’re right. It can be such an awkward thing to do. MC Aye! I think looking at things is really weird… But if you put work in a lift, it can help that problem. Or if you see something right in the doorway before you’ve even thought you were in the gallery, that can help, because you’re not self-conscious or whatever. It’s the same reason to put stuff in the toilets, or in the corridor down to the toilet. To me, the toilet is almost as good as the gallery, if not more helpful in fact. You can’t go to the toilet in the gallery, so why not look at something in the toilet. INT It makes sense, then, that this show is all-encompassing. Was there a moment when you visited that you thought, “Let’s go all out for this”? MC Aye! Actually I think it was the uniforms of the staff that was when I probably realised like, fuck, we actually have all these grey uniforms and it was actually possible. After we had a meeting to actually do it, there was the idea that there could be uniforms for the staff, the walls, plus music and live action, without anything really being brought into the gallery, just to have it as part of the infrastructure. 1 of 4 Martin Creed: AMIGOS, Centro Botín, photography by Belen De Benito 1 of 4 Martin Creed: AMIGOS, Centro Botín, photography by Belen De Benito INT I was reading something you said about when recording an album, you’re writing and thinking about it for a while, but you do it in a week in a studio and then it’s done. Do you think that, if more artists worked in that way, it would produce more interesting work? MC Yeah, I think it’s a great problem – over-working things, you know. You just take the life out of them. But fear makes you over-work things and that’s quite understandable. INT What’s your favourite part of a gallery other than the work displayed? MC What I like about art galleries is that you’re free to come and go as you please. That’s more difficult when you’re in a concert hall or theatre, because you get kind of trapped. You can have a laugh if you’re with people and walking around, the freedom of it. But I do realise that maybe some people don’t feel free. In fact, in art galleries I tend to not like works where you have to queue up to look at them. Or if you have to take your shoes off. Oh god, there’s loads of works where you have to take your shoes off, like a room installation with a white carpet or something. INT But when you put on shows it’s very common that you’ll shift the space and play with what it can be. Did you have a particular experience with galleries, when you were younger? MC I was always getting taken round art galleries and going to the theatre a lot – The Citizens Theatre in Glasgow. I was seeing amazing stage sets, but also getting taken round galleries and seeing installations, also a lot in Germany, because my mother is German. My parents are Quakers, which is called the Society of Friends. I grew up going to Quaker Sunday School and Quakers don’t believe in any hierarchy, they don’t like church, they call it a “meeting house”. There aren’t any sacred spaces, it’s just functional. Basically, art galleries are considered sacred, they’re special and you have to protect the work. You end up with this sacred space, where people feel like they can’t be at home. I feel like that probably affected me quite a lot, that whole Quaker thing. INT The Amigos show is very welcoming in its use of language, with performers speaking in both Spanish and English. MC I’ve been working on that for quite a few years, to try to do something with different languages – but this is the first time I’ve done it. Some of the stage shows I do, when I do them in other countries like Korea or places like that, I have a translator on stage. This is more a way of doing it with a performance, but here it is integrated, saying the same word in Spanish and English at the same time. “It’s quite arrogant to even speak and expect anyone to listen anyway, you know?” Martin Creed INT Is it important to you that locals of Santander visit the gallery? MC Aye. That’s the reason I was trying to use Spanish, I don’t want to come in and just use English. I’m really excited about it, because it’s to do with the problem of words. One of the great problems with words is that you’re speaking or using words, by implication it’s as if you’re speaking sort of authoritatively. It’s quite arrogant to even speak and expect anyone to listen anyway, you know? INT You’re also known for numbering your works and it’s a concept discussed a lot about your work – it seems to really fascinate people! MC I know! It’s like a library has catalogue numbers. I took that from music, from doing classical music and all the Beethoven stuff has a notice number. When I thought that I didn’t want to have titles, I started numbering them. It means you can treat everything equally, which is good, helpful, whether it’s a small thing or a big thing. INT Do you listen to music when you’re working? MC I quite often listen to music to help me sleep. Apart from that, I often don’t listen to that much music when I’m working. Actually, I remember this producer guy that I work with said that if you want to make music, you shouldn’t listen to music. It just gets into your head and you regurgitate what you’ve heard. INT You’ve been working with musicians in the lead-up to this. How have the workshops been? MC The people are great musicians and I’ve just been trying out different songs and different bits I wanted to. I think they’re amongst the best musicians I’ve ever worked with, and I’d work with them again, separately or together. They’ve all come from different places and didn’t know each other. I think there was an expectation at the start as well, because they had the expectation that I would be really picky about who I work with. I remember doing job interviews with people for the role of studio manager at my studio. I did all these interviews with some people, then of course I did more interviews and then second interviews. Then, I started to get to know them and liking them. It just got worse and worse, because I got attached to all of these different people. I couldn’t make a decision… I think job interviews are just shit. They don’t work, it’s totally artificial. The only way to work with people, I think, is if it happens. If that’s the way it goes, you meet someone in a bar and they say I play the violin, and then you try it. It’s the same way we were talking about looking at art, if it’s all self-conscious then it’s just not fun. INT But it’s quite amazing that you’ve created an artwork that has given someone a job. Maybe they’ll make friendships or some of them will fancy each other or something. MC Yeah and that aspect of work is what I feel is really important. To take away the idealism in the way of things and just concentrate on the reality. They are a human being and they are doing this to earn money, but they might be interested in it as well, but what their motives are is up to them. That’s the way. You can have as many ideas floating in the clouds as you want, but, you know, in the end, you have to go to the toilet and you have to go to sleep. You can take a look at where Martin Creed’s work is on display on a global scale with this handy map pinpointing his works. Centro Botín’s current exhibition is Calder Stories, which spans five decades of Alexander Calder’s career curated by Hans Ulrich Obrist, until 3 November 2019. Share Article About the Author — Lucy (she/her) was part of the It’s Nice That team from 2016–2025, first joining as a staff writer after graduating from Chelsea College of Art with a degree in Graphic Design Communication, eventually becoming a senior editor on our editorial team, and most recently at Insights, a research-driven department with It’s Nice That.


--- [The biggest news events of 2022 - in pictures | World Economic...] ---
Here’s what happened in 2022 in 10 striking pictures The year 2022 has been full of rapid and unexpected changes. Image: REUTERS/NASA/GSFC/NOAA/USGS Listen to the article - The year 2022 has been full of rapid and unexpected changes. - From severe flooding in Pakistan to the death of Queen Elizabeth II, these 10 pictures cover major news events from the past 12 months. 2022 has been a year like no other. Economic, environmental and geopolitical turmoil have defined the past 12 months, in a year that saw the death of the UK’s Queen Elizabeth II and the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. Here are 10 pictures that tell the story of how key news stories unfolded around the world in this unpredictable year. 1. Inflation surges around the world Inflation has been unusually high in countries around the world in 2022. Price increases in the US peaked at more than 9.1% in June, and at 11.1% in the UK in October. This has resulted in a cost-of-living crisis, with many families, even in some of the world’s wealthiest nations, being forced to choose between eating or heating this winter. 2. The Omicron coronavirus variant spreads The highly transmissible Omicron variant of COVID-19 spread around the world this year. Two Omicron “cousins” have also recently been named by the UK Health Security Agency, as the virus continues to mutate. What is the World Economic Forum doing to manage emerging risks from COVID-19? 3. Russia invades Ukraine Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February, leading to global crises for both food and energy, as well as displacing millions of people. 4. US Supreme Court overturns abortion rights In a controversial ruling on 24 June, the US Supreme Court revoked women’s constitutional right to abortion, restoring the ability of individual states to determine a woman's reproductive rights. 5. Record-breaking heatwaves Climate change has led to many record-breaking temperatures around the world. From runways melting to devastating wildfires, no country was safe from the extreme levels of heat experienced this year. 6. Droughts around the world This summer produced Europe’s worst drought in 500 years, with two-thirds of the continent experiencing some sort of extreme heat warning. In China, factories were forced to shut down in August due to decreased water levels around the Yangtze river basin, which curbed electricity generation at hydropower plants. 7. Flooding in Pakistan Flooding in Pakistan from June to August killed more than 1,391 people and caused an estimated $30 billion in damage as houses, crops and key infrastructure were swept away. 8. Queen Elizabeth II passes away Queen Elizabeth II died at Balmoral Castle in Scotland on 8 September and was succeeded by her eldest son, King Charles III. She died at 96 years of age after 70 years on the throne, making her the world’s second longest-ever reigning monarch. 9. World population exceeds 8 billion The world reached its first landmark of 1 billion people in 1803. Over 200 years later, on 15 November 2022, the world surpassed 8 billion people. 10. COP27’s ‘loss and damage’ fund for vulnerable countries The fund agreed at the COP27 summit will support poor countries that are being heavily impacted by climate change, despite their historically low emissions. It will cover the cost of any climate-related damage that these countries cannot avoid or adapt to. The events of this year will shape our Annual Meeting in Davos on 16-20 January 2023. Visit the event page to learn more. Don't miss any update on this topic Create a free account and access your personalized content collection with our latest publications and analyses. License and Republishing World Economic Forum articles may be republished in accordance with the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International Public License, and in accordance with our Terms of Use. The views expressed in this article are those of the author alone and not the World Economic Forum. Forum Stories newsletter Bringing you weekly curated insights and analysis on the global issues that matter. More on Forum in FocusSee all Gayle Markovitz October 29, 2025
