=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ricky Whittle thrilled with TRIC prize - Digital Spy]
Mar 10, 2010 · Hollyoaks star Ricky Whittle reacts to his success at the 2010 TRIC Awards. Hollyoaks star Ricky Whittle has revealed that he is surprised but thrilled after winning a prize at the...
URL: https://www.digitalspy.com/soaps/hollyoaks/a207905/ricky-whittle-thrilled-with-tric-prize/

[Ricky Whittle - Awards - IMDb]
Television and Radio Industries Club Awards 2010 Winner TRIC Award TV Soap Personality Hollyoaks
URL: https://www.imdb.com/name/nm1340638/awards/

[Ricky Whittle’s Biography: Wife, Net Worth, Ethnicity, Height]
British actor and model Richard George ‘Ricky’ Whittle was born in Oldham, Greater Manchester, England, under the zodiac sign Sagittarius on 23 November 1981. He’s had roles in 16 movies and TV series, and is perhaps known best forplaying Captain East in the 2013 romantic comedy movie “Austenland”, which Jerusha Hess wrote and directed, and which s...
URL: https://thebiography.org/ricky-whittles-biography-wife-net-worth-ethnicity-height/

[Ricky Whittle - Award History & Wins | AceShowbiz]
Ricky Whittle awards - 1 wins and multiple nominations. Complete awards history.
URL: https://www.aceshowbiz.com/celebrity/ricky_whittle/awards.html

[Ricky Whittle Awards - GAWBY]
Ricky Whittle Awards Television and Radio Industries Club Awards (2010) Winner TV Soap Personality
URL: https://www.gawby.com/person/245209/awards


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ricky Whittle thrilled with TRIC prize - Digital Spy] ---
Hollyoaks star Ricky Whittle has revealed that he is surprised but thrilled after winning a prize at the Television and Radio Industries Club (TRIC) Awards. Yesterday, the 28-year-old actor walked home with the 'TV Soap Personality Of The Year' accolade for his role as Calvin Valentine on the Channel 4 teen drama. What to Read Next Whittle's success was a triumph over EastEnders actress Lacey Turner (Stacey Branning) and Coronation Street's Simon Gregson (Steve McDonald), who were also nominated in the category. Reflecting on the result, Whittle is quoted by BBC Newsbeat as saying: "I didn't believe I was going to win it, so it's unreal. I never win. I've never won anything so I'm made up." The ceremony also saw EastEnders winning the 'TV Soap Of The Year' prize and Walford legend Barbara Windsor (Peggy Mitchell) receiving a lifetime achievement award. Previous recipients of the 'Soap Personality' gong include Coronation Street's Michelle Keegan and Kym Marsh.


--- [Ricky Whittle - Awards - IMDb] ---
Menu All All Watchlist Sign in EN Fully supported English (United States) Partially supported Français (Canada) Français (France) Deutsch (Deutschland) हिंदी (भारत) Italiano (Italia) Português (Brasil) Español (España) Español (México) Use app Back Biography Awards Trivia FAQ IMDbPro All topics Awards Ricky Whittle Jump to Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films, USA (1) British Soap Awards (4) Television and Radio Industries Club Awards (1) 1 win & 5 nominations Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films, USA 2018 Nominee Saturn Award Best Actor on Television American Gods British Soap Awards 2010 Nominee British Soap Award Sexiest Male Hollyoaks 2009 Nominee British Soap Award Sexiest Male Hollyoaks 2008 Nominee Sexiest Male Hollyoaks 2007 Nominee Sexiest Male Hollyoaks Television and Radio Industries Club Awards 2010 Winner TRIC Award TV Soap Personality Hollyoaks Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content Please see our guide to updating awards Learn more about contributing More from this person More to explore Recently viewed You have no recently viewed pages Back to top


--- [Ricky Whittle’s Biography: Wife, Net Worth, Ethnicity, Height] ---
• British actor and model, born in Oldham, Greater Manchester, England • Mostly raised in Oldham by mother Maggie (nee Goodwin) and Jamaican father Harry • Dropped out of university to pursue a career in the film industry • Starred in 16 movies and TV series, including “Austenland”, “Losing Sam”, “Succulent & Savory”, “Nappily Ever After”, “Hollyoaks”, “The 100”, “American Gods” • Net worth estimated at over $1.5 million Who is Ricky Whittle? British actor and model Richard George ‘Ricky’ Whittle was born in Oldham, Greater Manchester, England, under the zodiac sign Sagittarius on 23 November 1981. He’s had roles in 16 movies and TV series, and is perhaps known best for playing Captain East in the 2013 romantic comedy movie “Austenland”, which Jerusha Hess wrote and directed, and which starred Jennifer Coolidge, JJ Field and Keri Russell. It follows a woman who’s obsessed with the 1995 movie “Pride and Prejudice”, and has travelled to a Jane Austen theme park to find the perfect man; the film was nominated for a Grand Jury Prize at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival. Education and early Ricky was mostly raised in Oldham alongside two younger siblings, by their British mother Maggie (nee Goodwin) and Jamaican father Harry; the family occasionally moved because Harry worked for the Royal Air Force. Ricky attended an elementary school in Northern Ireland, where he was bullied because he was the only black boy at school. He later attended a high school in England, and upon matriculating in 2000 enrolled at Southampton Solent University; he was mostly into playing soccer during his time there, and was the captain of the university’s team. Ricky began working as a model to pay for college, but then dropped out in 2003 wanting to pursue a career in the film industry. Roles in movies Ricky’s debut film role was in the 2002 music video “Blue: Fly by II”, and his following part came in 2011, when cast to star as Samuel in the short comedy “Losing Sam”. The year 2016 saw him play the main character Chef Maxmilian in the romantic comedy “Succulent & Savory”, written and directed by Jasmine O’Donnell, and which also starred Simone-Elise Girard and Maxim Roy. It follows Chef Valentina who’s about to compete in an international cooking show, and the film won one of its four award nominations. Ricky’s appeared in only one other movie: he played Clint one of the main characters in the critically acclaimed 2018 romantic comedy “Nappily Ever After”, directed by Haifaa Al-Mansour, and which also starred Sanaa Lathan and Lyriq Bent. It follows Violet Jones who’s broken up with her boyfriend because he’s taking too long to propose, and the movie won one of its six award nominations. Ricky’s currently shooting for the upcoming movie “Land of Bad”. Roles in TV series Ricky’s debut TV series role was playing the supporting character Ryan Naysmith in 111 episodes (2002-2007) of the sports drama “Dream Team”, which starred Lisa Burstow, Terry Kiely and Alison King. The series follows the lives of boys playing for the soccer team Harchester United, and aired its 419 episodes from 1997 through 2007. The year 2004 saw Ricky play David Richards in the episode “You Can Choose Your Friends…” of the drama “Holby City”, and from 2006 through 2011, he starred as Calvin Valentine in the romantic drama “Hollyoaks”, created by Phil Redmond, and which today stars Nick Pickard, Ashley Taylor Dawson and Kieron Richardson. The series has been airing since 1995, numbering close to 5,000 episodes, and follows a group of teenage friends as they’re growing up; it’s won 49 of its 281 award nominations. In 2011, Ricky played Eddie Shannon in an episode of the comedy “Candy Cabs”, and the year 2012 saw him portray Charles in eight episodes of the romantic comedy “Single Ladies”. In 2014 and 2015, he portrayed Daniel Zamora in the popular romantic thriller “Mistresses”, which K. J. Steinberg created, and which starred Alyssa Milano, Rochelle Aytes and Jes Macallan. The series follows the lives of four best friends, and won a single award, Most Popular Foreign Drama at the Seoul International. Ricky’s since appeared in only two TV series: he played Lincoln in 35 episodes of the hit mystery science fiction “The 100” from 2014 through 2016, and Shadow Moon in 26 episodes of the fantasy mystery “American Gods” from 2017 through 2021. Season 2 episode 2 of American Gods #bts #ShadowMoon pic.twitter.com/VpOKaJmm8a — Ricky Whittle (@MrRickyWhittle) March 18, 2019 Other credits Ricky voiced Paul Tatum in the 2018 video game “NBA 2k19”. Some of his recent talk-show appearances have been in “The Real”, “Sidewalks Entertainment” and “20 Heures le Journal”. Awards and nominations Ricky won a 2010 Television and Radio Industries Club Award for TV Soap Personality, for his performance in “Hollyoaks”. He was nominated for four British Soap Awards for Sexiest Male from 2007 through 2010, for his performance in “Hollyoaks”, as well as for a 2018 Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films Award for Best Actor on Television, for “American Gods”. Love life and girlfriend Ricky rarely speaks about his love life in public, but there are still two women whom he’s been with, that his fans know about. From 2007 through 2009, he was in a relationship with British actress and singer Carley Stenson; the two met on the set of “Hollyoaks”. Carley’s appeared in only seven movies and TV series, and is probably known best for portraying Steph Cunningham in 313 episodes of the mentioned series. From 2016 through 2018, Ricky was in a relationship with American actress and model Kirstina Colonna; it’s widely believed that the two were planning to marry, but this hasn’t been confirmed by either of them. Ricky seems to be unattached as of January 2023, hasn’t married and doesn’t have children. Interesting facts and hobbies Ricky’s revealed that he loves beach weddings, especially ‘a sunset ceremony with fire lanterns and beautiful sky’. He’s addicted to working out at the gym, and sometimes exercises several times a day. Ricky dislikes life in America, and has revealed that he’d probably go fat if he were to move to the USA from England. Close to a million people are following Ricky on Instagram today, and he’s uploaded over 850 pictures and videos onto the social media network. His favorite actors are Channing Tatum and Will Smith, and some of his favorite movies include “Dear John”, “Dog” and “The Lost City”. Height, eyes and wealth Ricky’s age is 41. He has brown eyes and black hair, is 6ft 1in (1.85m) tall and weighs about 190lbs (87kgs). Ricky’s net worth’s been estimated at over $1.5 million, as of January 2023.


--- [Ricky Whittle - Award History & Wins | AceShowbiz] ---
No content


--- [Ricky Whittle Awards - GAWBY] ---
GAWBY Home Movies TV Shows Photos Now Streaming Movies Streaming Now TV Shows Streaming Now In Theaters Coming Soon Sign In Country GAWBY Light Dark Auto Country Home Movies TV Shows Photos More Now Streaming Movies Streaming Now TV Shows Streaming Now In Theaters Coming Soon Celebrities Sign In Light Dark Auto Home People Ricky Whittle Awards Share with a friend Quick Copy Link Copy Share on Social Media Popular Twitter Facebook WhatsApp Telegram Professional LinkedIn Email More Options Reddit Pinterest Tumblr Viber VK XING LINE Pocket Flipboard Weibo Blogger Baidu OK.ru Oops! Send feedback to Gawby.com Describe your issue or suggestion Send Back to top
