=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Harnaam Kaur - Wikipedia]
[3] In March 2017, Kaur was featured in the Teen Vogue article "Instagrammers Challenge Body and Facial Hair Stigma". [14] In August 2017, Kaur collaborated with the grooming company Captain Fawcett to create and design a beard oil elixir. Kaur models in the advertisement campaign for the beard oil. [15]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harnaam_Kaur

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/

[12 Facts About Harnaam Kaur - FactSnippet]
8. In September 2016, Harnaam Kaur was included in the Guinness World Records as the youngest woman in the world to have a full beard. 9. In March 2017, Harnaam Kaur was featured in the Teen Vogue article "Instagrammers Challenge Body and Facial Hair Stigma". 10.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-harnaam-kaur.html

[The Bearded Lady Project: Challenging the Face of Science ...]
“Instagrammers Challenge Body and Facial Hair Stigma.” Teen Vogue, March 28, 2017. https://www.teenvogue.com/story/girlschallenging-body-and-facial-hair-stigma.
URL: https://dokumen.pub/the-bearded-lady-project-challenging-the-face-of-science-9780231552462.html

[Month - Wikipedia]
A month is a unit of time, used with calendars, that is approximately as long as a natural phase cycle of the Moon; the words month and Moon are cognates.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Month


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Harnaam Kaur - Wikipedia] ---
Harnaam Kaur (born 29 November 1990) is a British social media personality, postpartum coach, life coach, and motivational speaker.


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:


--- [12 Facts About Harnaam Kaur - FactSnippet] ---
At the age of 12, Harnaam Kaur was diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome, which is due to elevated androgens in females. 12 Facts About Harnaam Kaur Harnaam Kaur is able to grow a full beard as a result of her condition. Harnaam Kaur worked as a primary school teaching assistant at Khalsa Primary School before coming to media attention in 2014, when she started giving public interviews. In June 2015, Harnaam Kaur modeled for Rock N Roll Bride and was photographed by Louisa Coulthurst of Urban Bridesmaid Photography. In November 2015, Harnaam Kaur joined the "Eff Your Beauty Standards" campaign founded by Tess Holliday as a spokesperson and representative. In March 2016, Harnaam Kaur became the first woman with a beard to walk at London Fashion Week. Harnaam Kaur is signed to Wanted Models in Paris and continues to be featured in fashion spreads in both online and print magazines. In September 2016, Harnaam Kaur was included in the Guinness World Records as the youngest woman in the world to have a full beard. In March 2017, Harnaam Kaur was featured in the Teen Vogue article "Instagrammers Challenge Body and Facial Hair Stigma". In 2017, Harnaam Kaur contributed to panel discussions in the House of Parliament on topics relating to mental health, body image, cyberbullying, LGBTQIA+ and how social media, businesses, schools and the government can help with the development of positive body images. Harnaam Kaur uses her profiles on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to contribute to numerous body-positive campaigns. Harnaam Kaur continues to wear her turban or other head coverings, which is a custom of the Khalsa tradition of Sikhism.


--- [The Bearded Lady Project: Challenging the Face of Science ...] ---
No content


--- [Month - Wikipedia] ---
A month is a unit of time, used with calendars, that is approximately as long as a natural phase cycle of the Moon; the words month and Moon are cognates. The traditional concept of months arose with the cycle of Moon phases; such lunar months ("lunations") are synodic months and last approximately 29.53 days, making for roughly  12.37 such months in one Earth year. From excavated tally sticks, researchers have deduced that people counted days in relation to the Moon's phases as early as the Paleolithic age. Synodic months, based on the Moon's orbital period with respect to the Earth–Sun line, are still the basis of many calendars today and are used to divide the year.
Calendars that developed from the Roman calendar system, such as the internationally used Gregorian calendar, divide the year into 12 months, each of which lasts between 28 and 31 days. The names of the months were Anglicized from various Latin names and events important to Rome, except for the months 9–12, which are named after the Latin numerals 7–10 (septem, octo, novem, and decem) because they were originally the seventh through tenth months in the Roman calendar. In the modern Gregorian calendar, the only month with a variable number of days is the second month, February, which has 29 days during a leap year and 28 days otherwise.


