=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lieutenant Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar]
Sep 20, 2022 · A major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years. It is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence & aspirations of people: L ieutenant Governor SRINAGAR, SEPTEMBER 20: Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulates people, Sh. Vijay Dhar & INOX Group Congratulating the people, Sh Vijay Dhar & INOX ...
URL: https://kashmirscanmagazine.com/2022/09/lieutenant-governor-inaugurates-inox-multiplex-theatre-in-srinagar/

[LG inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar]
Sep 20, 2022 · SRINAGAR — Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Vijay Dhar and INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last three years and it is a reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people. The Lt Governor ...
URL: https://kashmirpulse.com/jk/kashmir/lg-inaugurates-inox-multiplex-theatre-in-srinagar/97297.html

[Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar]
Sep 20, 2022 · Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Sh Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added. The Lt Governor observed that the ...
URL: https://www.thebetterkashmir.com/lt-governor-inaugurates-inox-multiplex-theatre-in-srinagar/

[Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar]
Sep 20, 2022 · Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar Congratulates people, Sh. Vijay Dhar & INOX Group A major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years. It is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence & aspirations of people: LG…
URL: https://theopenview.in/2022/09/20/lt-governor-inaugurates-inox-multiplex-theatre-in-srinagar/

[Kashmir's 3-decade wait ends, first multiplex inaugurated in Srinagar ...]
Sep 20, 2022 · Srinagar: Kashmir’s three-decade-long wait ended on Tuesday with the Valley’s first multiplex opening here. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha inaugurated the INOX multiplex here which is the union territory’s first such cinema hall.
URL: https://www.timesnownews.com/india/kashmirs-3-decade-wait-ends-first-multiplex-inaugurated-in-srinagar-pictures-article-94321106


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lieutenant Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar] ---
A major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years. It is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence & aspirations of people: Lieutenant Governor SRINAGAR, SEPTEMBER 20: Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Sh Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added. The Lieutenant Governor observed that the opening of multipurpose Cinema Halls in Shopian, Pulwama and the first-ever Multiplex Cinema Hall in Srinagar today marks the revival of cinema culture in the Kashmir valley after three decades, he added. Culture is a way of life and Cinema being the powerful medium of sharing thoughts and ideas reflects societal values and change. Cinema brings people together. Apart from entertainment it gives hopes, dreams and inspiration to youth to pursue their dreams till they realise it,” Lieutenant Governor said. Following the inauguration of two multi-purpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian, the UT Government is building multi-purpose cinema halls in all the districts of J&K. Young generation have a strong urge to see a better society, to learn about other cultures, to become part of inter-dependent world. And, it is the responsibility of the administration to provide them opportunities and support,’ the Lt Governor added. The new cinema halls and ongoing film shootings will renew the beautiful bond between Jammu Kashmir and the Indian Film Industry, he further added. The Lt Governor said that the new Film Policy has been rolled out with special provisions and incentives for encouraging local youth to take up film as a career. We are in talks with various stakeholders and have identified the land for developing Film City in the UT and the facility will come-up in the UT soon, announced the Lt Governor. Under the guidance of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi we have accelerated the pace of implementation of numerous developmental initiatives. After august 2019, a new social order has been established in J&K which promotes inclusive development, social harmony and equitable access to resources for all citizens without any discrimination. J&K UT is today stronger and more self-confident than ever before, the Lieutenant Governor said. Sh Subhash Chandra, Former Member Parliament, Rajya Sabha and Chairman Essel Group, congratulated the J&K Government and everyone associated with the newly inaugurated multiplex on the occasion. He also lauded the UT Administration for the transformation taking place in Kashmir, through opening of cinema halls, which has a great legacy of film-making and a massive film loving population. Sh Rajat Sharma, Editor-In-Chief and Chairman, India TV, said that the Cinema is the perfect medium to unite people. He appreciated the efforts of the Lt Governor and the UT administration for creating facilities to cater the needs of the Indian Film-Industry and reviving a new-era of cinema in Kashmir. Sh Siddharth Jain, Executive Director, INOX Group, while speaking on the occasion, said that the launch of the new multiplex theatre in Kashmir will make the region be a part of country’s creative economy and contribute to strengthening the soft power of the country. With ‘MYOUN INOX, MYOUN Cinema’, we are also looking to win the hearts of cinema lovers of Kashmir by offering them a world-class cinema-viewing experience, amalgamation of top-notch technology, great hospitality, best of cinema comforts, a blend of local designs, Dolby Atmos audio technology, latest 3D & projection technology and a professionally trained team. We are also looking forward to taking our artistic learning from Kashmir to the world, he said. Sh Vijay Dhar, Chairman DPS and owner of Broadway theatre expressed gratitude to the Lt Governor led UT administration and the INOX group for bringing back the joy of movie-viewing in cinema halls to Kashmir. He also threw light on the golden era of cinema and film-shooting in Jammu Kashmir. To mark this momentous occasion, a special screening was held for the cinema lovers of the region. Sh Junaid Azim Mattu, Mayor SMC; Sh Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, Advisor to Lt Governor; Dr Hina Shafi Bhat, Vice Chairperson, J&K KVIB; Sh Vijay Kumar, ADGP Kashmir; Sh Pandurang K. Pole. Divisional Commissioner Kashmir; Sh Mohammad Aijaz, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar; senior officials of civil administration, police and army, besides prominent citizens were present on the occasion.


--- [LG inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar] ---
SRINAGAR — Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Vijay Dhar and INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last three years and it is a reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people. The Lt Governor observed that the opening of multipurpose cinema halls in Shopian, Pulwama and the first-ever multiplex cinema hall in Srinagar today marks the revival of cinema culture in the Kashmir valley after three decades. “Culture is a way of life and Cinema being the powerful medium of sharing thoughts and ideas reflects societal values and change. Cinema brings people together. Apart from entertainment, it gives hopes, dreams and inspiration to youth to pursue their dreams till they realise it,” the Lt Governor said. Following the inauguration of two multi-purpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian, the UT Government is building multi-purpose cinema halls in all the districts of J&K. “Young generation has a strong urge to see a better society, to learn about other cultures, to become part of the inter-dependent world. And, it is the responsibility of the administration to provide them opportunities and support,” the Lt Governor added. “The new cinema halls and ongoing film shootings will renew the beautiful bond between Jammu and Kashmir and the Indian film industry,” he further added. The Lt Governor said that the new film policy has been rolled out with special provisions and incentives for encouraging local youth to take up the film as a career. “We are in talks with various stakeholders and have identified the land for developing Film City in the UT and the facility will come up in the UT soon,” announced the Lt Governor. “Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we have accelerated the pace of implementation of numerous developmental initiatives. After August 2019, a new social order has been established in J&K which promotes inclusive development, social harmony and equitable access to resources for all citizens without any discrimination. J&K UT is today stronger and more self-confident than ever before,” the Lt Governor said. Subhash Chandra, former Member Parliament, Rajya Sabha and Chairman Essel Group, congratulated the J&K Government and everyone associated with the newly inaugurated multiplex on the occasion. He also lauded the UT administration for the transformation taking place in Kashmir, through the opening of cinema halls, which has a great legacy of filmmaking and a massive film-loving population. Rajat Sharma, Editor-In-Chief and Chairman, India TV, said that the cinema is the perfect medium to unite people. He appreciated the efforts of the Lt Governor and the UT administration for creating facilities to cater for the needs of the Indian film industry and reviving a new era of cinema in Kashmir. Siddharth Jain, Executive Director, INOX Group, while speaking on the occasion, said that the launch of the new multiplex theatre in Kashmir will make the region a part of the country’s creative economy and contribute to strengthening the soft power of the country. “With ‘MYOUN INOX, MYOUN Cinema’, we are also looking to win the hearts of cinema lovers of Kashmir by offering them a world-class cinema-viewing experience, amalgamation of top-notch technology, great hospitality, best of cinema comforts, a blend of local designs, Dolby Atmos audio technology, latest 3D and projection technology and a professionally trained team. We are also looking forward to taking our artistic learning from Kashmir to the world,” he said. Vijay Dhar, Chairman DPS and owner of Broadway theatre expressed gratitude to the Lt Governor-led UT administration and the INOX Group for bringing back the joy of movie-viewing in cinema halls to Kashmir. He also threw light on the golden era of cinema and film shooting in Jammu Kashmir. To mark this momentous occasion, a special screening was held for the cinema lovers of the region. Junaid Azim Mattu, Mayor SMC; Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, Advisor to Lt Governor; Dr Hina Shafi Bhat, Vice Chairperson, J&K KVIB; Pandurang K. Pole, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir; Vijay Kumar, ADGP Kashmir; Mohammad Aijaz, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar; senior officials of civil administration, J&K Police and Indian Army, besides prominent citizens were present on the occasion. Follow Us The Kashmir Pulse is now on Google News. Subscribe our Telegram channel and Follow our WhatsApp channel for timely news updates!


--- [Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar] ---
Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Sh Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added. The Lt Governor observed that the opening of multipurpose Cinema Halls in Shopian, Pulwama and the first-ever Multiplex Cinema Hall in Srinagar today marks the revival of cinema culture in the Kashmir valley after three decades, he added. Culture is a way of life and Cinema being the powerful medium of sharing thoughts and ideas reflects societal values and change. Cinema brings people together. Apart from entertainment it gives hopes, dreams and inspiration to youth to pursue their dreams till they realise it,” Lt Governor said. Following the inauguration of two multi-purpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian, the UT Government is building multi-purpose cinema halls in all the districts of J&K. Young generation have a strong urge to see a better society, to learn about other cultures, to become part of inter-dependent world. And, it is the responsibility of the administration to provide them opportunities and support,’ the Lt Governor added. The new cinema halls and ongoing film shootings will renew the beautiful bond between Jammu Kashmir and the Indian Film Industry, he further added. The Lt Governor said that the new Film Policy has been rolled out with special provisions and incentives for encouraging local youth to take up film as a career. We are in talks with various stakeholders and have identified the land for developing Film City in the UT and the facility will come-up in the UT soon, announced the Lt Governor. Under the guidance of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi we have accelerated the pace of implementation of numerous developmental initiatives. After august 2019, a new social order has been established in J&K which promotes inclusive development, social harmony and equitable access to resources for all citizens without any discrimination. J&K UT is today stronger and more self-confident than ever before, the Lt Governor said. Sh Subhash Chandra, Former Member Parliament, Rajya Sabha and Chairman Essel Group, congratulated the J&K Government and everyone associated with the newly inaugurated multiplex on the occasion. He also lauded the UT Administration for the transformation taking place in Kashmir, through opening of cinema halls, which has a great legacy of film-making and a massive film loving population. Sh Rajat Sharma, Editor-In-Chief and Chairman, India TV, said that the Cinema is the perfect medium to unite people. He appreciated the efforts of the Lt Governor and the UT administration for creating facilities to cater the needs of the Indian Film-Industry and reviving a new-era of cinema in Kashmir. Sh Siddharth Jain, Executive Director, INOX Group, while speaking on the occasion, said that the launch of the new multiplex theatre in Kashmir will make the region be a part of country’s creative economy and contribute to strengthening the soft power of the country. With ‘MYOUN INOX, MYOUN Cinema’, we are also looking to win the hearts of cinema lovers of Kashmir by offering them a world-class cinema-viewing experience, amalgamation of top-notch technology, great hospitality, best of cinema comforts, a blend of local designs, Dolby Atmos audio technology, latest 3D & projection technology and a professionally trained team. We are also looking forward to taking our artistic learning from Kashmir to the world, he said. Sh Vijay Dhar, Chairman DPS and owner of Broadway theatre expressed gratitude to the Lt Governor led UT administration and the INOX group for bringing back the joy of movie-viewing in cinema halls to Kashmir. He also threw light on the golden era of cinema and film-shooting in Jammu Kashmir. To mark this momentous occasion, a special screening was held for the cinema lovers of the region. Sh Junaid Azim Mattu, Mayor SMC; Sh Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, Advisor to Lt Governor; Dr Hina Shafi Bhat, Vice Chairperson, J&K KVIB; Sh Pandurang K. Pole, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir; Sh Vijay Kumar, ADGP Kashmir; Sh Mohammad Aijaz, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar; senior officials of civil administration, police and army, besides prominent citizens were present on the occasion.


--- [Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar] ---
Lt Governor inaugurates INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar Congratulates people, Sh. Vijay Dhar & INOX Group A major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years. It is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence & aspirations of people: LG Land identified for developing Film City in the UT: LG SRINAGAR, SEPTEMBER 20: Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha today inaugurated INOX multiplex theatre in Srinagar. Congratulating the people, Sh Vijay Dhar & INOX Group on the occasion, the Lt Governor said that a major Socio-economic revolution is sweeping through J&K in the last 3 years and it is reflection of a new dawn of hope, dreams, confidence and aspirations of people, he added. The Lt Governor observed that the opening of multipurpose Cinema Halls in Shopian, Pulwama and the first-ever Multiplex Cinema Hall in Srinagar today marks the revival of cinema culture in the Kashmir valley after three decades, he added. Culture is a way of life and Cinema being the powerful medium of sharing thoughts and ideas reflects societal values and change. Cinema brings people together. Apart from entertainment it gives hopes, dreams and inspiration to youth to pursue their dreams till they realise it,” Lt Governor said. Following the inauguration of two multi-purpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian, the UT Government is building multi-purpose cinema halls in all the districts of J&K. Young generation have a strong urge to see a better society, to learn about other cultures, to become part of inter-dependent world. And, it is the responsibility of the administration to provide them opportunities and support,’ the Lt Governor added. The new cinema halls and ongoing film shootings will renew the beautiful bond between Jammu Kashmir and the Indian Film Industry, he further added. The Lt Governor said that the new Film Policy has been rolled out with special provisions and incentives for encouraging local youth to take up film as a career. We are in talks with various stakeholders and have identified the land for developing Film City in the UT and the facility will come-up in the UT soon, announced the Lt Governor. Under the guidance of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi we have accelerated the pace of implementation of numerous developmental initiatives. After august 2019, a new social order has been established in J&K which promotes inclusive development, social harmony and equitable access to resources for all citizens without any discrimination. J&K UT is today stronger and more self-confident than ever before, the Lt Governor said. Sh Subhash Chandra, Former Member Parliament, Rajya Sabha and Chairman Essel Group, congratulated the J&K Government and everyone associated with the newly inaugurated multiplex on the occasion. He also lauded the UT Administration for the transformation taking place in Kashmir, through opening of cinema halls, which has a great legacy of film-making and a massive film loving population. Sh Rajat Sharma, Editor-In-Chief and Chairman, India TV, said that the Cinema is the perfect medium to unite people. He appreciated the efforts of the Lt Governor and the UT administration for creating facilities to cater the needs of the Indian Film-Industry and reviving a new-era of cinema in Kashmir. Sh Siddharth Jain, Executive Director, INOX Group, while speaking on the occasion, said that the launch of the new multiplex theatre in Kashmir will make the region be a part of country’s creative economy and contribute to strengthening the soft power of the country. With ‘MYOUN INOX, MYOUN Cinema’, we are also looking to win the hearts of cinema lovers of Kashmir by offering them a world-class cinema-viewing experience, amalgamation of top-notch technology, great hospitality, best of cinema comforts, a blend of local designs, Dolby Atmos audio technology, latest 3D & projection technology and a professionally trained team. We are also looking forward to taking our artistic learning from Kashmir to the world, he said. Sh Vijay Dhar, Chairman DPS and owner of Broadway theatre expressed gratitude to the Lt Governor led UT administration and the INOX group for bringing back the joy of movie-viewing in cinema halls to Kashmir. He also threw light on the golden era of cinema and film-shooting in Jammu Kashmir. To mark this momentous occasion, a special screening was held for the cinema lovers of the region. Sh Junaid Azim Mattu, Mayor SMC; Sh Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, Advisor to Lt Governor; Dr Hina Shafi Bhat, Vice Chairperson, J&K KVIB; Sh Pandurang K. Pole, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir; Sh Vijay Kumar, ADGP Kashmir; Sh Mohammad Aijaz, Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar; senior officials of civil administration, police and army, besides prominent citizens were present on the occasion. Discover more from THE OPEN VIEW Subscribe to get the latest posts sent to your email. Categories: Srianagar News


--- [Kashmir's 3-decade wait ends, first multiplex inaugurated in Srinagar ...] ---
Srinagar: Kashmir’s three-decade-long wait ended on Tuesday with the Valley’s first multiplex opening here. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha inaugurated the INOX multiplex here which is the union territory’s first such cinema hall. Movies had not been screened in Kashmir for decades due to the threat of terrorism, after the last cinema halls closed down at the start of militancy in the early 1990s. With the opening of the multiplex, Kashmiris have not got a chance to watch movies on the big screen for the first time in three decades. The multiplex which has been inaugurated in Srinagar will be run by INOX. It was reported earlier that the multiplex has three large auditoriums and a total seating capacity of over 500 people at a time. The auditoriums are equipped with Dolby Atmos digital sound system to provide the moviegoers of the Valley an immersive experience. Further, a silver screen has been used to make the experience premium. Also, recliner seats as well as normal chairs have been installed for movie watching. An ANI news report said the cinema halls have been designed using Kashmiri handicrafts of 'khatamband' and 'papier mache'. Further, a food court has also been set up for people to enjoy snacks during intervals. Project chairman Vijay Dhar was quoted as saying: "We saw there had been no such thing here for 30 years. We thought why not? So we've just started. The youngsters should get the same facilities in the cinema which they get in Jammu or in other towns of the country.” The multiplex has started three years after the abrogation of Article 370 which provided special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Earlier on Sunday, the J&K LG also inaugurated multipurpose cinema halls in Pulwama and Shopian that offer facilities for movie screening, infotainment and skilling of youth. Speaking on the launch of the Srinagar multiplex today, LG Sinha said: "With the advent of new film policies in the state, more films are being shot here now. We will also be establishing a film city in the coming months, allotment of land for the film city is done already." For the Latest news, India News and breaking stories from around the world, visit Times Now for live coverage and in-depth reporting.
