=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kiraitu Murungi - Wikipedia]
Kìraitū Mūrungi was born on 1 January 1952 in Kionyo Village, Meru District. He attended Kionyo Primary School, then Chuka High School, and Alliance High School. Murungi earned a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Nairobi in 1977 and later an LLM from the same university in 1982. In 1991, he completed a second LLM at Harvard Law School, where he studied during his exile in the United ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kiraitu_Murungi

[Kiraitu Murungi’s profile | CiaMeru News]
Nov 13, 2016 · Kiraitu went to Kairiene and Kionyo Primary Schools before proceeding to Chuka High School, where he won the best student prize in 1971. He attended Alliance High School where he sat A’ Level examinations in 1973 and passed with 4 principals and 1 subsidiary.
URL: https://ciameru.wordpress.com/2016/11/13/kiraitu-murungis-profile/

[Kiraitu Murungi Biography, Age, Education Family, Networth, and ...]
Nov 16, 2023 · He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Daniel M’Mwarania. Education. Kiraitu attended primary education at Kionyo Primary School and later joined Chuka High School for secondary education. He later joined Alliance High School where he completed his A-Level examinations and scored 4 principals and 1 subsidiary. Kiraitu Murungi Law Career.
URL: https://www.nairobiminibloggers.com/kiraitu-murungi-biography-age-education-family-networth-and-contacts/

[Kiraitu Murungi Profile: Age, Education, Career, Family]
Feb 6, 2025 · Kiraitu Murungi Education Background He started his high school education at Chuka High and later joined Alliance Boys High School for His A-levels. Kiraitu Murungi is a graduate with a bachelor’s degree in law from the University of Nairobi and later pursued a master’s degree in law from the same university.
URL: https://thekenyatimes.com/kenya/kiraitu-murungi-profile-age-education-career-family-and-net-worth/

[14 Facts About Kiraitu Murungi - FactSnippet]
4. Kiraitu Murungi was born on 1 January 1952 in Kionyo Village, Meru District. 5. Kiraitu Murungi attended Kionyo Primary School, then Chuka High School, and Alliance High School. 6. Kiraitu Murungi became well known for his work in human rights and social justice, including representing Wanyiri Kihoro against the Kenyan government. 7.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-kiraitu-murungi.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kiraitu Murungi - Wikipedia] ---
Kìraitū Mūrungi (born 1 January 1952) is a Kenyan politician, lawyer, and civil rights advocate. He is  the Chairman of the National Oil Corporation of Kenya. He has previously held roles including Governor of Meru County, Senator for Meru, and was a long-serving Member of Parliament for South Imenti Constituency. Over his extensive political career, he has also served as a Cabinet Minister and been instrumental in advocating for social justice and democratic reforms in Kenya.


--- [Kiraitu Murungi’s profile | CiaMeru News] ---
Kiraitu Murungi is the first born of the Late Daniel M’Mwarania and Anjelika Kiajia. Born in South Imenti at the height of the Mau Mau struggle in the 1950s, Kiraitu grew up in the deprivation of a concentration camp. He is married to Priscilla K. Murungi and is the father to Nkatha, Mwenda, Makena and Anita Murungi. Kiraitu went to Kairiene and Kionyo Primary Schools before proceeding to Chuka High School, where he won the best student prize in 1971. He attended Alliance High School where he sat A’ Level examinations in 1973 and passed with 4 principals and 1 subsidiary. He joined the Faculty of Law at the University of Nairobi in 1974 and graduated in 1977 with an Upper Class Honours degree. Between 1977 and 1978 he studied at the Kenya School of Law. He graduated at the top of his class and won both the Best Law Student Prize and the Law Society of Kenya Prize for the best overall student in class of 1978. Kiraitu taught as a lecturer at the Kenya School of Law between 1978 and 1980. In 1979, he took the Commonwealth Legal Drafting Course. Between 1980 and 1982, he studied for a Masters of Law degree (LL.M) in the Faculty of Law at the University of Nairobi. In 1990, while in exile, he studied for a second masters Degree at Harvard Law School, in Cambridge Massachusetts, USA. His areas of specialisation include Constitutional Law, Human Rights and Democracy. He founded the law firm ‘Kamau Kuria, Kiraitu & Ringera Advocates’ in Nairobi in 1980. As a practising lawyer, Kiraitu Murungi specialised in Constitutional Law,Commercial Law & Civil Litigation. He handled several high profile cases both in the High Court and Court of Appeal. Read more here More links


--- [Kiraitu Murungi Biography, Age, Education Family, Networth, and ...] ---
Kiraitu Murungi, he is a well-known politician in Meru and the entire country. Currently, he is serving as the board chair at National Oil Corporation, an office he ascended to in 2022 after the Meru county governor race defeat by Kawira Mwangaza Kiraitu Age Kiraitu Murungi was born on 1 January 1952 in Kionyo village, Abogeta West Ward, South Imenti Constituency of Meru County in Eastern Kenya. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Daniel M’Mwarania. Education. Kiraitu attended primary education at Kionyo Primary School and later joined Chuka High School for secondary education. He later joined Alliance High School where he completed his A-Level examinations and scored 4 principals and 1 subsidiary. Kiraitu Murungi Law Career. He joined the faculty of Law at the University of Nairobi and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Law in 1977. He then proceeded to the Kenya School of Law from where he graduated in 1978 with an outstanding performance. Murungi furthered his studies at the University of Nairobi where he enrolled for a Master’s of Law degree and graduated in 1982. While in exile, in 1990, he took a step further in his career and graduated with a second master’s degree in Law from Havard University. Wife and Family. Murungi has a wife, Priscilla Murungi with whom he has sired four children. The children are Mwenda, Anita, Makena, and Nkatha Murungi. He has a sister known as Betty Kaari Murungi who is married to Siaya Senator James Orengo. Work and experience He taught as a lecturer at Kenya School of Law from 1978 to 1980. Kiraitu founded a law firm along with his law colleagues Kuria Kamau, Kiraitu, and Ringera advocates. Murungi has formerly served as Minister of Justice and Constitutional Affairs and as a shadow Attorney General in Former President Kibaki’s Government. After the Government’s defeat in the 21 November 2005 constitutional referendum, he was appointed Minister of Energy, a position in which he served up to 2013. During his time as minister, he initiated the rural electrification program which Saw many rural areas in Kenya receive electricity. During his tenure as the minister of energy, crude oil/petroleum was discovered in the Turkana Basin. Kiraitu Murungi Political Career. Kiraitu began his political career when he joined other opposition leaders in championing multiparty democracy in Kenya. In the 1992 general elections, he vied for the member of parliament for the south Imenti constituency and won. He was re-elected into the MP’s office in the recurring elections until 2013 when he stepped down to vie for a senatorial seat. The 20-year period in which he served as an MP saw him complete several development projects. Through his works, the Constituency was marked as the best-developed constituency in the county and got recognition countrywide. He ascended into the office of the governor following the 2017 elections after beating his rival Peter Munya on the ballot. Before assuming the role of governor, he had served as Meru Senator from 2013 to 2017, a position he secured in the 2013 General Elections. After ascending into the governor’s office in 2017, he envisioned a project dubbed Meru Youth Service to provide opportunities for young people in the county. Kiraitu is said to be the only politician who has never lost an election since joining politics in 1992. He was among the leaders who pushed for Multi-party democracy along with opposition leader Raila Odinga. Murungi has formerly served as Minister of Justice and Constitutional Affairs and as a shadow Attorney General in Former President Kibaki’s Government. Kiraitu Murungi Book and Scholarly Works. The veteran lawmaker is the author of three books: In the Mud of Politics, The Song of My Beloved, and the most recent, Beyond Politics: A Conversation with Kiraitu. It is through his many Scholarly and political accolades that he is referred to as the Kingpin of Meru and a political genius. After being elected governor, Kiraitu’s stake in national government affairs was reduced. Being a governor, he has been tasked with ensuring that Meru County Government operations are running smoothly. Therefore, he ought to concentrate on his gubernatorial duties. Currently, he is working on several development projects intending to fulfill his promises to the people of Meru dubbed `Making Meru Great`. Kiraitu Murungi Businesses Kiraitu has three known palatial houses, one in Nairobi, one in Nkubu-Meru, and the third one at his home location in Kionyo. There is no reliable figure of Governor Kiraitu’s wealth at the time this article was written. However, it will be updated as soon as reliable information is sourced.


--- [Kiraitu Murungi Profile: Age, Education, Career, Family] ---
No content


--- [14 Facts About Kiraitu Murungi - FactSnippet] ---
Kiraitu Murungi was born on 1 January 1952 and is a Kenyan politician, lawyer, and civil rights advocate. 14 Facts About Kiraitu Murungi Kiraitu Murungi is the Chairman of the National Oil Corporation of Kenya. Kiraitu Murungi has previously held roles including Governor of Meru County, Senator for Meru, and was a long-serving Member of Parliament for South Imenti Constituency. Kiraitu Murungi was born on 1 January 1952 in Kionyo Village, Meru District. Kiraitu Murungi attended Kionyo Primary School, then Chuka High School, and Alliance High School. Kiraitu Murungi became well known for his work in human rights and social justice, including representing Wanyiri Kihoro against the Kenyan government. Kiraitu Murungi entered politics in the early 1990s, joining the Forum for the Restoration of Democracy and later the Democratic Party as he advocated for multi-party democracy. Kiraitu Murungi was elected as a Member of Parliament for South Imenti in 1992 and held this seat until 2013, aligning himself with reformist leaders and later joining the National Rainbow Coalition in 2002. Kiraitu Murungi held various cabinet roles, including Minister of Justice and Constitutional Affairs and later Minister of Energy. In 2013, Kiraitu Murungi became the Senator for Meru County, representing the county in the Kenyan Senate. Kiraitu Murungi was implicated in the Anglo Leasing Scandal, an infamous corruption case in Kenya. In 2006, John Githongo, former Governance and Ethics Permanent Secretary, released recordings alleging that Kiraitu Murungi attempted to obstruct investigations. Kiraitu Murungi has been described as a visionary leader and social organiser who has significantly contributed to the development of South Imenti Constituency. Kiraitu Murungi is married to Priscilla Murungi, and they have four children.
