=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ken Noda - Wikipedia]
In 1982, at the age of 20, he was invited by President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan to perform alongside violinist Itzhak Perlman in the East Room of the White House.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Noda

[Ken Noda, 20, to Play at White House - The New York Times]
Oct 28, 1982 · The White House announced today that Ken Noda, a 20-year-old pianist, would appear with the violinist Itzhak Perlman in the first program of this year's ''In Performance at the White...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1982/10/28/arts/ken-noda-20-to-play-at-white-house.html

[Ken Noda - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Sep 27, 2024 · In 1982, at the age of 20, he was invited by President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan to perform alongside violinist Itzhak Perlman in the East Room of the White House. The performance was recorded for the PBS television program In Performance at the White House.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Ken-Noda

[Ken Noda at the White House - The Washington Post]
Pianist Ken Noda, who is all of 20, made his White House debut yesterday afternoon in the East Room, under the patronage and in the presence of the President and Mrs. Reagan.
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/lifestyle/1982/11/08/ken-noda-at-the-white-house/b209b53a-31b2-4d99-a8d3-5b3b00b1b9ea/

[Age Calculator]
This free age calculator computes age in terms of years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds, given a date of birth.
URL: https://www.calculator.net/age-calculator.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ken Noda - Wikipedia] ---
Ken Noda (born October 5, 1962) is an American concert pianist, accompanist, vocal coach, and composer. He began composing music and performing as a concert pianist before the age of 11. He has performed with symphony orchestras throughout the world, and has composed numerous art songs and five operas. He worked as a vocal coach at the Metropolitan Opera from 1991 until retiring from his full time position in July 2019.


--- [Ken Noda, 20, to Play at White House - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Ken Noda, 20, to Play at White House New York Times subscribers* enjoy full access to TimesMachine—view over 150 years of New York Times journalism, as it originally appeared. *Does not include Games-only or Cooking-only subscribers. About the Archive This is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them. Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions. The White House announced today that Ken Noda, a 20-year-old pianist, would appear with the violinist Itzhak Perlman in the first program of this year's ''In Performance at the White House'' series. The program is to be taped Nov. 7 in the East Room at the White House and is to be broadcast Nov. 10, at 8 P.M. on PBS. Mr. Perlman has taken the role begun last year by Beverly Sills as the master of ceremonies of a series designed to give young performers a chance to play before a wide audience. President and Mrs. Reagan and their guests are to attend the performance, which will include Mr. Noda's playing of the Mozart Fantasia in D minor (K. 397) and the Chopin Ballade No. 1 in G minor, Opus 23. A version of this article appears in print on , Section C, Page 16 of the National edition with the headline: Ken Noda, 20, to Play at White House. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Related Content Advertisement


--- [Ken Noda - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Ken Noda | || Itzhak perlman ken noda chopin nocturne n 20 in c diesis minor Ken Noda (born October 5, 1962) is an American concert pianist, accompanist, vocal coach, and composer. He began composing music and performing as a concert pianist before the age of 11. He has performed with symphony orchestras throughout the world, and has composed numerous art songs and five operas. He has worked as a vocal coach at the Metropolitan Opera since 1991, and is currently musical assistant to conductor James Levine. Contents - Itzhak perlman ken noda chopin nocturne n 20 in c diesis minor - Ying huang ken noda puccini la boheme quando m en vo - Early life and education - Opera compositions - Performance career - Educator and work at the Metropolitan Opera - References Ying huang ken noda puccini la boheme quando m en vo Early life and education Born to Japanese parents in Dobbs Ferry, New York, Noda grew up in Scarborough and was educated at the Hackley School (graduated 1980). He began studying the piano at age five and was admitted into the Juilliard School on a full scholarship at the age of seven. He has studied piano privately with Daniel Barenboim, Adele Marcus, and Sylvia Rabinof. He studied singing with Beverley Peck Johnson, and for many years was her studio accompanist at Juilliard. In 1986 he was awarded an Avery Fisher Career Grant worth $10,000 (equivalent to $21,849 in 2016). Opera compositions Noda composed his first opera, The Canary and the Baseball, at the age of 10, a work which premiered at the Brevard Music Festival on August 18, 1973, and was later staged by the educational wing of the New York City Opera. At the age of 13 he was awarded a grant from the National Endowment of the Arts to compose a three-act opera, The Rivalry (1976), which was his third work in that genre. He has since composed two more operas: The Highwayman (1979) and The Magic Turtle (1980). By the time he was 16 years old he had composed 65 art songs. Performance career Noda began performing at a young age, and by the age of 14 he had already appeared as a soloist in concerts with the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, the Minnesota Orchestra, the St. Louis Symphony, and the New York Philharmonic. Other orchestras he has performed with include the Berlin Philharmonic, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, the London Symphony Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic, the Montreal Symphony Orchestra, the National Symphony Orchestra, the Orchestre de Paris, the Philharmonia Orchestra, and the Vienna Philharmonic among others. In 1980 Noda performed at Royal Albert Hall for the The BBC Proms. In 1982, at the age of 20, he was invited by President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan to perform alongside violinist Itzhak Perlman in the East Room of the White House. The performance was recorded for the PBS television program In Performance at the White House. In 1983 he closed out the Mostly Mozart Festival at Lincoln Center playing Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 1 under the baton of Leonard Slatkin. In 1989 he performed in concert with the Emerson String Quartet for the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. In 1991 Noda ceased his performance career after becoming disillusioned with the classical musical world and the role he was playing in it. In an interview with The New York Times several years later, Noda stated the following: Young people like romance stories and war stories and good-and-evil stories and old movies because their emotional life mostly is and should be fantasy. They put that fantasized emotion into their playing, and it is very convincing. I had an amazing capacity for imagining these feelings, and that's part of what talent is. But it dries up, in everyone. That's why so many prodigies have midlife crises in their late teens or early 20s. If our imagination is not replenished with experience, the ability to reproduce these feelings in one's playing gradually diminishes. After halting his performance career, Noda joined the staff of the Metropolitan Opera as a vocal coach and administrator in 1991 and has since only performed rarely as a soloist. He continues to perform with regularity as an accompanist to singers in recitals in New York City, often in connection with his work at the Met. Performers he has accompanied include, among others: Educator and work at the Metropolitan Opera Since 1999 Noda has taught on the faculty at the Marlboro Music School and Festival. He also spent four summers teaching at the Renata Scotto Opera Academy and gives masterclasses in opera at the Yale School of Music and the Juilliard School. He currently serves on the staff of the Metropolitan Opera as musical assistant to conductor James Levine and as an instructor to singers in the Lindemann Young Artist Development Program. He has also served as a judge for the final round of the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions. He began working at the Met as a vocal coach in 1991.


--- [Ken Noda at the White House - The Washington Post] ---
Pianist Ken Noda, who is all of 20, made his White House debut yesterday afternoon in the East Room, under the patronage and in the presence of the President and Mrs. Reagan. It was this year's opening concert of the excellent "In Performance at the White House" series, in which established performers introduce major young performers who are on the way up.


--- [Age Calculator] ---
Age Calculator The Age Calculator can determine the age or interval between two dates. The calculated age will be displayed in years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, and seconds. The age of a person can be counted differently in different cultures. This calculator is based on the most common age system. In this system, age increases on a person's birthday. For example, the age of a person who has lived for 3 years and 11 months is 3, and their age will increase to 4 on their next birthday one month later. Most western countries use this age system. In some cultures, age is expressed by counting years with or without including the current year. For example, a person who is twenty years old is the same age as another person who is in their twenty-first year of life. In one of the traditional Chinese age systems, people are born at age 1 and their age increases up at the Traditional Chinese New Year rather than their birthday. For example, if one baby is born just one day before the Traditional Chinese New Year, 2 days later, the baby will be 2 even though he/she is only 2 days old. In some situations, the months and day result of this age calculator may be confusing, especially when the starting date is the end of a month. For example, we count Feb. 20 to Mar. 20 to be one month. However, there are two ways to calculate the age from Feb. 28, 2022 to Mar. 31, 2022. If we consider Feb. 28 to Mar. 28 to be one month, then the result is one month and 3 days. If we consider both Feb. 28 and Mar. 31 as the end of the month, then the result is one month. Both calculation results are reasonable. Similar situations exist for dates like Apr. 30 to May 31, May 30 to June 30, etc. The confusion comes from the uneven number of days in different months. In our calculations, we use the former method.
