=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[International House of Prayer - Wikipedia]
IHOPKC is best known for its prayer meetings, based on its "harp and bowl" worship model, which have been held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, since September 19, 1999. [9] These meetings, streamed live on the internet and through GOD TV, [10] alternate regularly between music and prayer in two-hour sets through all hours of the day and night. [11] The 24/7 meetings are ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_House_of_Prayer

[International House of Prayer - Alchetron]
IHOPKC is best known for its daily prayer meetings based on its " harp and bowl " worship model that are held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year since September 19, 1999. While the prayer meeting is the primary ministry of IHOPKC, the missions organization has also established many different ministries that serve its community. These prayer meetings, which are streamed live on ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/International-House-of-Prayer

[International House of Prayer explained]
Prayer Format IHOPKC is best known for its prayer meeting s, based on its " harp and bowl " worship model, which have been held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, since September 19, 1999. [9] These meetings, streamed live on the internet and through GOD TV, [10] alternate regularly between music and prayer in two-hour sets through all hours of the day and night. [11] The 24/7 ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/International_House_of_Prayer/

[International House of Prayer]
IHOP is most well - known for its daily prayer meetings based on its " harp and bowl " worship model that are held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year since September 19, 1999.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/9257426

[Mike Bickle (minister) - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
He then started the International House of Prayer (also known by its acronym IHOPKC). IHOPKC is most well known for its daily prayer meetings based on its "harp and bowl" worship model that are held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year since September 19, 1999.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Mike-Bickle-(minister)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [International House of Prayer - Wikipedia] ---
The International House of Prayer, Kansas City (IHOPKC), is an evangelical Christian movement and missions organization, based the nearby suburb of Grandview and formerly in Kansas City.
It is best known for the Global Prayer Room, which has run continuously with live worship teams since September 19, 1999, and simultaneously broadcasts via its website and YouTube channel. Doctrinally, IHOPKC is evangelical, and affirms historic premillennialism. IHOPKC places great importance on the practices of Bible study, prayer, worship, fasting, and works of justice.


--- [International House of Prayer - Alchetron] ---
Country United States Membership over 2000 Phone +1 816-763-0200 Founded 1999 | Denomination Non-Denominational Website www.ihopkc.org | | Address 3535 E Red Bridge Rd, Kansas City, MO 64137, USA Hours Open today · Open 24 hoursTuesdayOpen 24 hoursWednesdayOpen 24 hoursThursdayOpen 24 hoursFridayOpen 24 hoursSaturdayOpen 24 hoursSundayOpen 24 hoursMondayOpen 24 hours Similar Metro Christian Fellowship, Courtyard by Marriott Kansas C, Coach House, Holiday Inn Express & Suites Ka, Timber Lakes at Red Brid Profiles | The International House of Prayer (IHOP or IHOPKC) is an evangelical charismatic Pentecostal Christian missions organization based in Kansas City, Missouri, and the nearby suburb of Grandview that focuses on prayer, worship, and evangelism. Contents - Only a shadow full concert misty edwards - Overview - International House of Prayer University - Expansion - Controversy - References It is best known for the prayer room which has run 24/7 with live worship teams since September 19, 1999, and simultaneously broadcast via its website. Doctrinally, IHOPKC is evangelical, post-tribulational, and affirms historic premillennialism. IHOPKC places great importance on the practices of prayer, worship, fasting, and discipleship. IHOPKC is based in Kansas City, Missouri. It runs a training facility which houses a Bible school, music academy, and media institute, collectively known as the International House of Prayer University (IHOPU) in nearby Grandview, Missouri. The annual Onething conference has been hosted by IHOPKC since 2002 in the Kansas City Convention Center. Only a shadow full concert misty edwards Overview The International House of Prayer of Kansas City (IHOPKC) was founded by Mike Bickle. The organization began in a small building off Grandview Road in Kansas City, Missouri, as a prayer room dedicated to worshiping Jesus night and day. Since that time, IHOPKC has grown and spread out over several different locations throughout south Kansas City and Grandview, Missouri. As of November 2010, the church had over 1,000 staff and a student body of another 1,000 individuals. IHOPKC is best known for its daily prayer meetings based on its "harp and bowl" worship model that are held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year since September 19, 1999. While the prayer meeting is the primary ministry of IHOPKC, the missions organization has also established many different ministries that serve its community. These prayer meetings, which are streamed live on the internet and through GOD TV, alternate regularly between music and prayer through all hours of the day and night. IHOPKC staff regularly teach on themes that include prayer, worship, the Great Commandment, the Great Commission, eschatology, understanding God's spiritual purposes for Israel, spiritual gifts, and various other evangelical themes. International House of Prayer University The International House of Prayer University is an unaccredited Bible college with a campus at Grandview, Missouri. As of 2010, there were 1,000 full-time students enrolled. The educational process centers on prayer. The program has included ministry training programs, a music academy, a media school, missionary training, and others. The program was founded in 2000 as the Forerunner School of Prayer. In 2008 the institution was renamed International House of Prayer University after the school was certified by the state to receive international students. In 2010 the school invested $6 million to renovate part of a strip mall in Grandview for use as a new campus. The president of the school was Wes Hall, until he followed a call to the Gospel Forum Academy in Stuttgart, Germany in 2016. Expansion The IHOPKC Project plans to build a facility on 125 acres of land adjacent to Highway 71 that once belonged to Harry Truman. They expect to spend $150 million on the project. There are several apartment complexes in Grandview, Missouri that are inhabited primarily by members of IHOPKC. In late 2009 and early 2010, reports of revival at the IHOPKC center led to increased attendance at their prayer services and conferences. Their current facility was built in 2012. Controversy Mike Bickle has previously been involved in what was called by others as "the Kansas City prophets movement," and which was criticized by Ernie Gruen in a well-known controversy after which John Wimber, the leader of the Vineyard Church extended oversight to Mike Bickle and his church (Kansas City Fellowship) which then jointed the AVC and changed its name to Metro Vineyard Fellowsip. Two men who were said to be a part of the "Kansas City Prophets," Bob Jones and Paul Cain, left the ministry due to professional and sexual scandal. IHOPKC has repeatedly been accused of being a cult by Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry and other apologetics groups. The 2013 documentary film God Loves Uganda suggests that North American evangelicals in general, and IHOPKC specifically, were responsible for Uganda's Anti-Homosexuality Bill. IHOPKC has stated that it was not connected to the bill and is opposed to the legislation. When IHOPKC moved to a new location in an old shopping center in the Terrace Lake neighborhood of Kansas City in 2002, many members of the local community voiced suspicions about the ministry. IHOPKC attempted to allay their fears in a series of community meetings. IHOPKC has been credited, however, with helping the local economy by bringing large numbers of visitors to the area. On September 14, 2010, IHOP (International House of Pancakes) announced that they were suing the International House of Prayer for trademark dilution and infringement. The lawsuit was dropped on December 21, 2010, with the dispute resolved out of court. On October 30, 2012, former IHOPKC intern Bethany Deaton was found dead in an apparent suicide. Days later, IHOPU student Micah Moore came forward to Grandview police and was subsequently charged with Bethany Deaton's murder. In statements to police, Moore stated that he was part of a religious group with Bethany and her husband, Tyler Deaton. Moore said that group leader and IHOPU graduate Tyler Deaton ordered his wife's murder to prevent her from revealing sexual assaults within the group. While IHOPKC materials and website listed Tyler Deaton as a division coordinator for IHOPKC friendship groups until five days after Bethany's death, IHOPKC officials said that Tyler Deaton's group was not connected to IHOPKC. Melanie Morgan, one of Moore's lawyers, said in early December 2012: "The facts suggest Bethany Deaton’s death was an unfortunate suicide and Micah Moore had nothing to do with that suicide". On Oct 31, 2014, the Jackson County, Missouri prosecutor dismissed murder charges against Micah Moore.


--- [International House of Prayer explained] ---
No content


--- [International House of Prayer] ---
- International House of Prayer - International House of Prayer International House of Prayer The International House of Prayer in Kansas City, MOLocation Kansas City and Grandview, Missouri Country United States Denomination Non-denominational Churchmanship Evangelical Membership over 2000 Weekly attendance over 2000 Website www.ihop.org History Founded May 7, 1999 Founder(s) Mike Bickle The International House of Prayer (also known by its acronym IHOP or by IHOP–KC) is an evangelical charismatic Christian missions organization based in Kansas City and Grandview, Missouri that focuses on prayer, worship, and evangelism.[1] Doctrinally, IHOP–KC is evangelical, post-tribulational, and affirms historic premillennialism. IHOP-KC places great importance on the practices of prayer, worship, fasting, and discipleship. IHOP–KC has a prayer room in Kansas City, Missouri and runs a Bible and ministry school called the International House of Prayer University (IHOPU) in nearby Grandview, Missouri. Contents Overview The International House of Prayer was founded by Mike Bickle, and is part of the New Apostolic Reformation movement. The organization began in a small building off of Grandview Road in Kansas City, Missouri as a prayer room dedicated to worshiping Jesus night and day. Since that time, IHOP has grown and spread out over several different locations throughout south Kansas City and Grandview, Missouri. As of November 2010[update] the church had over 1,000 staff and a student body of another 1,000 individuals with over 4,000 attending their weekly services.[2] IHOP is most well-known for its daily prayer meetings based on its "harp and bowl" worship model that are held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year since September 19, 1999. While the prayer meeting is the primary ministry of IHOP, the missions organization has also established many different ministries that service its community. These prayer meetings, which are streamed live on the internet and through GOD TV,[3] alternate regularly between music and prayer through all hours of the day and night. [4] IHOP staff regularly teach on themes that include prayer, worship, the Great Commandment, the Great Commission, eschatology, understanding God's spiritual purposes for Israel, spiritual gifts and other various evangelical themes.[3][2] International House of Prayer University The International House of Prayer University is a Bible college with campuses at Grandview, Missouri.[5] As of November 2010[update] there are 1000 full time students enrolled, and prayer is central to the educational process.[2] Expansion The 2007-2008 promotion of the new IHOP headquarters in Grandview, MO was estimated to bring over 5,000 new residents to the city.[by whom?] The IHOP-KC Project consists of plans to build a facility on 125 acres of land adjacent to Highway 71 that once belonged to Harry Truman. They expect to spend $150 million dollars on the project.[3] There are several apartment complexes in Grandview, Missouri inhabited primarily by members of IHOP.[2] In late 2009 and early 2010 reports of revival at the IHOP center led to increased attendance at their prayer services and conferences.[6] Controversy When IHOP moved to a new location in an old shopping center in the Terrace Lake neighborhood of Kansas City in 2002 many members of the local community voiced suspicions about the ministry. IHOP attempted to allay their fears in a series of community meetings.[7][8][9] IHOP has been credited, however, with helping the local economy by bringing large numbers of visitors to the area.[10] A writer from the McClatchy-Tribune News Service has stated that IHOP is "Kansas City's biggest religious phenomenon in a century".[3] The Southern Poverty Law Center has criticized IHOP because of the extent to which their teachings emphasize Jesus making war on his enemies at His Second Coming.[11] On September 14, 2010 IHOP (International House of Pancakes) announced that they were suing the International House of Prayer for trademark dilution and infringement.[12] The lawsuit was dropped on December 21, 2010, with the dispute resolved out of court.[13] See also - Justice House of Prayer - Onething conference - TheCall - Youth with a Mission References - ^ Bradley, Donald (26, July 2009), "Entreaties never stop at the International House of Prayer", Kansas City Star (Kansas City, MO): A1, http://www.kansascitystar.com - ^ a b c d Yoars, Marcus (1 November 2010). "We Won’t Stop Praying". Charisma. http://www.charismamag.com/index.php/features/2010/november/29497-we-wont-stop-praying. Retrieved 10 February 2011. - ^ a b c d "This IHOP serves generous portions of prayer". Reading Eagle. McClatchy-Tribune (Reading, Pennsylvania). 8 August 2009. http://readingeagle.com/article.aspx?id=151677. Retrieved 12 February 2011. - ^ Gaines, Adrienne. "Ministry marks 20 years of nonstop prayer and worship". Charisma. http://www.charismamag.com/index.php/news/23394-ministry-marks-10-years-of-nonstop-prayer-and-worship. Retrieved 24 June 2011. - ^ "Prospective Students". IHOPU. http://www.ihop.org/Group/Group.aspx?ID=1000040853. Retrieved July 12, 2011. - ^ Tom, Karen (24 November 2009). "Thousands Flock to IHOP Student ‘Awakening’". Charisma (Charismamag.com). http://www.charismamag.com/index.php/news/25464-thousands-flock-to-ihop-student-awakening. Retrieved 2010-01-14. - ^ Robertson, Joe (21 September 2002). "Neighbors remain wary of ministry's plans". The Kansas City Star: p. 1. http://nl.newsbank.com/nl-search/we/Archives?p_product=KC&p_theme=kc&p_action=search&p_maxdocs=200&p_topdoc=1&p_text_direct-0=0F64115B5A44339E&p_field_direct-0=document_id&p_perpage=10&p_sort=YMD_date:D&s_trackval=GooglePM. Retrieved 12 February 2011. - ^ Robertson, Joe (5 November 2002). "Prayer ministry still has doubters". The Kansas City Star: p. 1. - ^ Robertson, Joe (20 June 2002). "Ministry finds home amid suspicions Terrace Lake business owners await their fate as prayer group moves in". The Kansas City Star: p. B1. - ^ Dornbrook, James (18 April 2009). "Grandview triangulates eco-devo success". Kansas City Business Journal. http://www.bizjournals.com/kansascity/stories/2010/04/19/story5.html. Retrieved 12 February 2011. - ^ Sanchez, Casey (Issue Number 131, Fall 2008). "'Arming' for Armageddon". Intelligence Report. Southern Poverty Law Center. http://www.splcenter.org/get-informed/intelligence-report/browse-all-issues/2008/fall/arming-for-armageddon. Retrieved 3 December 2010. - ^ Lateef Mungin, (September 16, 2010) Pancake house takes on prayer group CNN - ^ Glendale News-Press, (December 29, 2010) Pancake versus prayer dropped External links Categories:- Charismatic and Pentecostal Christianity - Organizations based in Kansas City, Missouri - Christianity in Missouri - Religious organizations established in 1999 - 1999 establishments in the United States - Charismatic and Pentecostal organizations Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Mike Bickle (minister) - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Mike Bickle Role Pastor | Spouse Diane Bickle | | Full Name Michael Leroy Bickle Born July 17, 1955 (age 70) ( 1955-07-17 ) Books Passion for Jesus, Growing in the prophetic, The Rewards of Fasting, The Pleasures of Loving, After God's Own Heart Similar People Paul Cain, Rick Joyner, Lou Engle, John Paul Jackson, John Wimber Profiles | Michael Leroy "Mike" Bickle (born July 17, 1955) is an American Evangelical Christian leader best known for his leadership of the International House of Prayer (IHOPKC). As the leader of IHOPKC, Bickle oversees several ministries and a Bible school. Bickle has written a number of books and served as the pastor of multiple churches. Contents Ministry Mike Bickle became an evangelical Christian when he was fifteen when his football coach paid his way to a Fellowship of Christian Athletes student conference in Estes Park, Colorado. After listening to Dallas Cowboys quarterback Roger Staubach speak of his "personal relationship with Jesus," Bickle committed himself to become an evangelical Christian. After serving as a pastor in several evangelical churches in St. Louis, Bickle moved to Kansas City to start the Kansas City Fellowship (now known as Metro Christian Fellowship) in November 1982. Eventually, Kansas City Fellowship joined the Association of Vineyard Churches led by John Wimber in 1990, and was renamed Metro Vineyard Christian Fellowship. It remained a part of that association of churches until 1996. During his tenure as the pastor of Metro Christian Fellowship, Bickle pastored a group known to both detractors and supporters as the Kansas City Prophets that, by some accounts, included Bob Jones, Paul Cain, John Paul Jackson, and others. Bickle asserted no formal group known as the Kansas City Prophets ever existed, but that the term "clustered a whole bunch of personalities into one group and one stereotype." The movement is described by Ernie Gruen in the Aberant Practices of the Kansas City Fellowship. In 1993, Bickle and Gruen released a joint statement in which they stated the conflict to be resolved. During his ministry, Bickle claims to have had several encounters with God, including hearing the audible voice of God and being taken to heaven twice. In 1999, Bickle was fired from the church that he was pastoring, Metro Christian Fellowship, then a megachurch of over three thousand members. He then started the International House of Prayer (also known by its acronym IHOPKC). IHOPKC is most well known for its daily prayer meetings based on its "harp and bowl" worship model that are held 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year since September 19, 1999. IHOPKC also established a Bible college, known as the International House of Prayer University and several internships for young adults. In addition to these training programs, IHOPKC also organizes various evangelism and charitable programs locally and internationally. The ministry currently consists of approximately 2,500 full-time staff members, students, and interns. IHOPKC organizes the annual Onething conference at the Kansas City Convention Center. In 2010, the event saw over 25,000 young adults attend. The conference focuses on worship music and sermons on prayer, evangelism, and Christian eschatology. Bickle is known for dressing casually while preaching and for his avoidance of "charismatic self-referentiality". Bickle endorsed Ted Cruz for president in 2016. Theology Bickle's teachings have primarily focused on prayer, worship, fasting, the Great Commandment, with his own Trinitarian interpretation, the Great Commission, spiritual gifts, and the Bible with a particular focus on passion for Jesus, the first commandment, and preparing people spiritually by understanding what Jesus said about the end times. In 1988 Bickle began studying the Song of Songs, a book that he had dismissed in the past as being only for women. He interprets the Song of Songs as an allegory of the relationship between the body of believers (= the church) and God. After studying this book for several years, he began to focus his ministry primarily on the Great Commandment. Bickle teaches extensively on prayer. Bickle began teaching on the Tabernacle of David in 1983 after an experience in which he claims to have heard the audible voice of God. He encourages churches and Christian ministries to develop a "culture of prayer" by developing continuous worship and prayer. Bickle has focused some of his teaching on God's spiritual purposes for Israel. He believes that it is important for Christians to pray for the spiritual salvation of the Jews. Reception There has been criticism of aspects of Bickle's theology and ministry practices. Aspects of his ministry which have been particularly controversial include his view of the prophetic ministry today. Most of the criticism involving Bickle's ministry, however, focuses on the sexual activities of some of the ministers that were closely connected with his ministry in the 80s and 90s, including Bob Jones and Paul Cain though neither has been involved with Bickle's ministry for several years as a result. In 1990 Kansas City pastor Ernie Gruen published a report entitled "Documentation of the Aberrant Practices and Teaching of the Kansas City Fellowship (Grace Ministries)". After the publication of this document, Bickle announced that he was submitting to John Wimber's oversight and joined the Association of Vineyard Churches in part to address the issues raised by his critics. Bickle later noted that "We were tempted to say that the attacks were all of the devil. In retrospect, we see that God’s hand in all of this - even using the things that came from Satan’s hand as well. Some of the criticisms were valid (especially concerning our pride); others were not." Bickle's ministry has since been endorsed by several American charismatic leaders, including Dr. Jack W. Hayford, Bill Bright, Loren Cunningham, Jack Deere, and C. Peter Wagner. Bickle came under fire from the Anti-Defamation League for his controversial statements.
