=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Emilio Palma - Wikipedia]
Emilio Marcos de Palma Morella (born 7 January 1978) is an Argentine man who was the first person born on the continent Antarctica. [1][2] The first person to be conceived in the continent was Juan Pablo Camacho. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emilio_Palma

[Born in Antarctica: The White Continent Has 11 'Citizens']
Sep 30, 2025 · Just months later, on 27 May 1978, Marisa de las Nieves Delgado was born at Esperanza Base, during a storm when winds reached 150kph. Delivered by Dr. Carlos Galceran with help from her father, Sergeant Nestor Delgado, she weighed 3.42kg. Newspapers announced her as “The First Woman of Antarctica.”
URL: https://explorersweb.com/born-in-antarctica-the-white-continent-has-11-citizens/

[The First Antarctican - The Breeze]
On January 7, 1978 Argentinan Emilio Marcos Palma became the first person to be born in Antarctica. The story of why he was born on this desolate continent is fascinating and, maybe to some, comical. Antarctica was a continent that many different countries were competing for. This competition mostly ended when multiple countries (45 to...
URL: https://www.sbrhsbreeze.org/news/2017/12/24/the-first-antarctican/

[Emilio Palma (Antarctica's First Born) ~ Bio Wiki | Photos | Videos]
Emilio Marcos Palma (born 7 January 1978) is an Argentine man known for being the first documented person born on the continent of Antarctica. Palma was born in Fortn Sargento Cabral at the Esperanza Base, near the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula, and weighed 3.4kg (7lb 8oz). His father, Captain
URL: https://alchetron.com/Emilio-Palma

[Most southerly birth - Guinness World Records]
At the time of his birth, Emilio Marcos Palma (Argentina) born 7 January 1978 at the Sargento Cabral Base, Antarctica, could claim to be the first and only child to be born on the icy southern continent.
URL: https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/73079-most-southerly-birth


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Emilio Palma - Wikipedia] ---
Emilio Marcos de Palma Morella (born 7 January 1978) is an Argentine man who was the first person born on the continent Antarctica. The first person to be conceived in the continent was Juan Pablo Camacho.




--- [Born in Antarctica: The White Continent Has 11 'Citizens'] ---
Antarctica is usually unoccupied except for scientists, wealthy tourists, and adventurers. Surprisingly, though, a small number of children have entered the world there. The exact figure is difficult to pin down. Some sources list 11 births, mostly at Argentina’s Esperanza Base and Chile’s Eduardo Frei Base. One child was both conceived and born in Antarctica. Even these remarkable children, however, don’t carry Antarctic passports, because Antarctica isn’t a country. The children take their parents’ nationality. The first ‘Antarctican’ The first documented birth was Emilio Marcos Palma, delivered on Jan. 7, 1978, at Argentina’s Esperanza Base. His mother, Maria Silvia Morello, flew there late in her pregnancy as part of an Argentine initiative to strengthen its territorial presence. Palma weighed 3.4kg at birth. His father, Captain Jorge Emilio Palma, was head of the Argentine Army detachment at the base. Most sources recognize Palma’s birth as the first on the Antarctic mainland. Palma was also entitled to British overseas citizenship, as the UK also claimed that part of Antarctica. Marisa Delgado Just months later, on 27 May 1978, Marisa de las Nieves Delgado was born at Esperanza Base, during a storm when winds reached 150kph. Delivered by Dr. Carlos Galceran with help from her father, Sergeant Nestor Delgado, she weighed 3.42kg. Newspapers announced her as “The First Woman of Antarctica.” Although she returned to Buenos Aires as a baby, Delgado told The Press, “My memories aren’t of playing in the snow –- but it’s my story, it’s in my identity.” She often introduces herself as Marisa “de las Nieves” Delgado, meaning “of the snows.” In 2000, Delgado returned with the Argentine Antarctic Program, describing it as “the opportunity to begin the search for my identity.” Her parents were among the first families to overwinter at Esperanza, and she calls them “pioneers.” Now living in New York, Delgado co-founded the Native Antarctica Foundation with fellow Antarctic-born Argentinians Jose Manuel Valladares Solis and Maria Sol Cosenza. “Our lives are not a footnote in a scientific record,” she says. “We should view Antarctica not just through a microscope, but through a human lens.” Today, pregnancies are not permitted at Antarctic bases, which Delgado believes could mean hers is among the last generations born there. “I do not think anyone would allow it today,” she says. “It’s sad because it means we would have witnessed the end of our community.” Ruben Eduardo de Carli On 21 September 1979, Ruben Eduardo de Carli was born at Esperanza Base. His father, Eduardo Francisco de Carli, was a 26-year-old army technician tasked with setting up a radio station, while his mother, Maria Rosario Cuccaro, was a kindergarten teacher. Today, de Carli lives in Buenos Aires. De Carli recalls his birth was “complicated.” He was born at eight months after a difficult delivery, and midwives initially believed he was stillborn. Francisco Javier Sosa Just weeks later, on Oct. 11, 1979, Francisco Javier Sosa was born at the same base. His father worked as a cook, and his mother was a professor of Antarctic history. Sosa later moved to the United States, where he worked as a cook in Florida and raised three children. Reflecting on his unique birthplace, he later said, “Having been born in Antarctica meant a lot because it is unique…I was not able to visit the place where I was born.” Silvia Analia Arnouil In January 1980, Silvia Analia Arnouil was born at Esperanza Base to Petty Officer Oscar Arnouil and his wife. Her delivery was attended by doctors Ruben and Mabel Pariggi. Jose Manuel Valladares Solis On 24 January 1980, Jose Manuel Valladares Solis was delivered at Esperanza under unusual circumstances. His parents (his father was an Army Colonel) had traveled south after a fire damaged the base’s facilities. With little equipment available, because of the fire, doctors improvised using a nebulizer as a surgical aspirator (often used to assist via suction with difficult births) during the delivery. Valladares has since reflected his belief that his birth was not driven by politics. “I agree with the opinion of the Japanese journalist Eiji Roppongi, who interviewed me in 2003 and stated that my birth was my destiny, not because of political interest in Argentina, not because my parents chose the place, but because God wanted it that way.” Lucas Daniel Posse On Feb. 4, 1980, Lucas Daniel Posse was born at Esperanza Base to Sergeant Marcelo Posse, a mechanic, and his wife Maria Rosa Domínguez. Maria Sol Cosenza In 1983, Maria Sol Cosenza was born at Esperanza and lived there until she was six months old. Later settling in Mexico, she studied social communication. Reflecting on her unusual beginning, she later said, “I am proud of having been born in a magic land, as I see it, and it makes me feel special.” Chile joins the story Chile also recognized the value of encouraging families at its Antarctic outpost. On Nov. 21, 1984, Juan Pablo Camacho Martino was born at the Eduardo Frei Base on King George Island. Unlike Palma, Camacho was both conceived and born in Antarctica, making his case unique. Within weeks, Gisella Cortes Rojas was also born at the base, followed in January 1985 by Ignacio Alfonso Miranda Lagunas, the most recent birth recorded on the continent. Timeline of Antarctic births - 7 January 1978 – Emilio Marcos Palma (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 27 May 1978 – Marisa de las Nieves Delgado (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 21 September 1979 – Ruben Eduardo de Carli (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 11 October 1979 – Francisco Javier Sosa (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 14 January 1980 – Silvia Analia Arnouil (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 24 January 1980 – Jose Manuel Valladares Solís (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 4 February 1980 – Lucas Daniel Posse (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 1983 – Maria Sol Cosenza (Esperanza Base, Argentina) - 21 November 1984 – Juan Pablo Camacho Martino (Eduardo Frei Base, Chile) - 2 December 1984 – Gisella Cortes Rojas (Eduardo Frei Base, Chile) - 23 January 1985 – Ignacio Alfonso Miranda Lagunas (Eduardo Frei Base, Chile) By establishing family life at their stations, both Argentina and Chile sought to underscore their territorial claims in a region governed by the Antarctic Treaty. Families endured storms, fires, and isolation, but their presence was presumably seen as proof of national commitment. Since the mid-1980s, no further births have been publicly documented. Today, Antarctic programs prioritize safety and logistics, and pregnant women are not sent to the remote bases.


--- [The First Antarctican - The Breeze] ---
The First Antarctican December 24, 2017 On January 7, 1978 Argentinan Emilio Marcos Palma became the first person to be born in Antarctica. The story of why he was born on this desolate continent is fascinating and, maybe to some, comical. Antarctica was a continent that many different countries were competing for. This competition mostly ended when multiple countries (45 to be exact) signed the Antarctic Treaty of 1959, barring any one nation from taking over the icy continent. However, disputes still remained between Argentina and Chile. Both countries claimed the Antarctic Peninsula was a continuation of the Andes Mountains and therefore part of their own country. It is important to note the Antarctic Peninsula is basically a useless strip of land; it might have some coal, oil, and other minerals but mining or extracting of these resources would be illegal and the exact amount in the peninsula is unknown. This is where Emilio Palma’s parents come into the story. His father was Captain Jorge Emilio Palma, leader of the Argentine army at Esperanza Base in Antarctica. His wife, Sílvia Morella de Palma was pregnant. The idea was if Argentina could birth the first baby in Antarctica, it would have a legitimate claim to the peninsula. She was sent to Esperanza Base in late 1977 and gave birth to Emilio Palma in early 1978. After his birth, the Argentine government banned the making of maps of Argentina that did not include Antarctica. Chile was not about to admit defeat. After the birth of Emilio Palma, Chile sent a recently married couple to their own base to make the first baby conceived and born in Antarctica. In total, eleven children have been born in Antarctica, eight from Argentinian Esperanza Base and the other three from Chile’s Base Presidente Eduardo Frei Montalva. Ultimately, this “baby boom” ended due to the risk being too high for something with little reward.


--- [Emilio Palma (Antarctica's First Born) ~ Bio Wiki | Photos | Videos] ---
Citizenship Argentine | Name Emilio Palma | | Full Name Emilio Marcos Palma Born January 7, 1978 (age 47) ( 1978-01-07 ) Esperanza Base, Trinity Peninsula, Argentine Antarctic Territory (disputed between British Antarctic Territory and Chilean Antarctic Territory), Antarctica Parent(s) Jorge Emilio Palma (father)Silvia Morella de Palma (mother) | Emilio Marcos Palma (born 7 January 1978) is an Argentine man known for being the first documented person born on the continent of Antarctica. Contents WORLD'S First KID TO BE BORN IN ANTARCTICA!!!! Biography Palma was born in Fortín Sargento Cabral at the Esperanza Base, near the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula, and weighed 3.4 kg (7 lb 8 oz). His father, Captain Jorge Emilio Palma, was head of the Argentine Army detachment at the base. While ten people have been born in Antarctica since, Palma's birthplace remains the southernmost. In late 1977, Silvia Morella de Palma, who was then seven months pregnant, was airlifted to Esperanza Base, in order to complete her pregnancy in the base. The airlift was a part of the Argentine solutions to the sovereignty dispute over territory in Antarctica. Emilio was automatically granted Argentine citizenship by the government since his parents were both Argentine citizens, and he was born in the claimed Argentine Antarctica. This is a sector of Antarctica claimed by Argentina as part of its national territory, although this claim is not internationally recognised and overlaps with British and Chilean claims. He is featured in the Guinness Book of Records as the first person in history known to be born on the continent. Other births in Antarctica His stepbrother, A Bauer, was also born in Antarctica, 12 years later, while his parents were on a two-year science mission. However, Solveig Gunbjørg Jacobsen of Norway, born in the island territory of South Georgia on 8 October 1913, was the first person born and raised in the Antarctic (the world region south of the Antarctic Convergence). The first human born in the wider Antarctic region was the Australian James Kerguelen Robinson, born in Kerguelen Islands on 11 March 1859.


--- [Most southerly birth - Guinness World Records] ---
Most southerly birth - Who - Emilio Marcos Palma - What - First - Where - Antarctica - When - 07 January 1978 At the time of his birth, Emilio Marcos Palma (Argentina) born 7 January 1978 at the Sargento Cabral Base, Antarctica, could claim to be the first and only child to be born on the icy southern continent. The mother was flown from Argentina at governmental expense.
