=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bahria Town - Wikipedia]
Bahria Town (Private) Limited (Urdu: بحریہ ٹاؤن) is an Islamabad -based privately employee-owned real-estate development company that owns, develops, and manages properties across Pakistan. [1][2] It established its first gated community in Rawalpindi/Islamabad. [3] Its second gated community opened in Lahore.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bahria_Town

[Bahria Town in Pakistan - Your Lifestyle Destination]
Jul 22, 2019 · Bahria Town (Private) Limited is a Rawalpindi-based privately owned real-estate development company which owns, develops and manages properties across Pakistan. Founded in late-1990s, it established its first gated community in southern Rawalpindi on the Grand Trunk Road, which by mid-2000s had expanded into nine phases divided into two compounds.Its second gated community opened in Lahore,…
URL: https://bahriatownpakistan.home.blog/2019/07/22/bahria-town-in-pakistan-your-lifestyle-destination/

[Bahria Town - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Sep 30, 2024 · Bahria Town (Urdu ) is a Rawalpindibased privately owned realestate development company which owns, develops and manages properties across Pakistan. It is the largest private real estate company in Asia. Founded in late1990s, it established its first gated community in southern Rawalp
URL: https://alchetron.com/Bahria-Town

[Bahria Town Private Limited - Real Estate Development Company in Karachi]
Apr 5, 2019 · The company was established in late-1990s and developed its first gated community in southern Rawalpindi region on the Grand Trunk Road. This was the same project which was further been expanded into nine phases in 2000 which then got distributed into two compounds. Moreover, its second gated community got established in Lahore, which was heavily influenced by Greco-Roman culture.
URL: https://bahriatowncompany.wixsite.com/bahritown/post/bahria-town-private-limited-real-estate-development-company-in-karachi

[BAHRIA TOWN KARACHI 2 - Tajarat Properties]
After the immense popularity of Bahria Town Karachi, the developers have launched an upgraded and better version of Bahria Town with the name of Bahria Town 2. The main aim of this newly-launched housing society is to upgrade the lives and living standards of thousands of people in Karachi city.
URL: https://tajarat.com.pk/bahria-town-karachi-2/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bahria Town - Wikipedia] ---
Bahria Town (Private) Limited (Urdu: بحریہ ٹاؤن) is an Islamabad-based privately employee-owned real-estate development company that owns, develops, and manages properties across Pakistan.
It established its first gated community in Rawalpindi/Islamabad. Its second gated community opened in Lahore. In 2015, it launched Bahria Town Karachi, the largest of its gated communities, while the Bahria Enclave Islamabad (launched in 2013) is the smallest of them. Most of these communities are large towns in their own right; its oldest community in the Southern Rawalpindi/Islamabad area spans over 16,000 hectares (40,000 acres). The under-construction Bahria Town Karachi spans over 16,000 hectares (40,000 acres), making it the largest privately owned residential community in the country.
The companies subsidiaries include the Mall of Lahore and the under-construction Mall of Islamabad, a chain of cinemas under the brand Cine Gold, a chain of supermarkets under the banner of Green Valley Hypermarket and skyscrapers including the Bahria Icon Tower, which is the tallest building in Pakistan. The group is also the developer of Grand Jamia Mosque, Lahore, which is the seventh largest in the world and is constructing the third largest mosque in Karachi. The under-construction Rafi Cricket Stadium, when completed, will also be the largest in the country. In November 2016, Bahria entered into a contract with Hyatt to develop four properties across Pakistan, including two golf resorts, worth a combined $600 million. The properties would be owned by Bahria.
ACE International Academy is also a project of Bahria Town. 
Bahria projects usually house upper-middle and high-income Pakistanis; these communities have private security, the ability to restrict access to non-residents and are energy independent from the national grid. Bahria gated communities are home to private schools, including those operated by the company, private hospitals, hotels, and commercial avenues. Bahria has been featured by several international news agencies.


--- [Bahria Town in Pakistan - Your Lifestyle Destination] ---
Bahria Town (Private) Limited is a Rawalpindi-based privately owned real-estate development company which owns, develops and manages properties across Pakistan. Founded in late-1990s, it established its first gated community in southern Rawalpindi on the Grand Trunk Road, which by mid-2000s had expanded into nine phases divided into two compounds.Its second gated community opened in Lahore, which is influenced by Greco-Roman culture and is built in Southern Lahore. In 2015, it launched the Bahria Town Karachi, the largest of its gated communities, while Bahria Enclave Islamabad (launched in 2013) is the smallest of them. Most of these communities are large towns in their own right, its oldest community in Rawalpindi spans over 16,000 hectares (40,000 acres). The under-construction Bahria Town Karachi spans over 16,000 hectares (40,000 acres) and it is the largest privately owned residential community in the country. Combined, its projects have the capacity to house over a million people. Apart from gated towns, the company owns several shopping complexes including the Mall of Lahore and the under-construction Mall of Islamabad, chain of cinemas under the brand of Cine Gold, a chain of supermarkets under the banner of Green Valley Hypermarket and skyscrapers including the Bahria Icon Tower, which is the tallest in Pakistan. With over 100,000 employees, the group also is the developer of Grand Jamia Mosque, Lahore, which is the seventh largest in the world and is constructing the third largest mosque in Karachi.The under-construction Rafi Cricket Stadium when completed will also be the largest in the country.[16][17] On November 2016, Bahria entered into a contract with Hyatt to develop four properties across Pakistan, including two golf resort’s, worth combined $600 million. The properties would be owned by Bahria. Bahria projects usually house upper middle and high income Pakistanis, these communities have private security, ability to restrict access to non-residents and are energy independent from the national grid. Bahria gated communities are home to private schools including those operate by the company, private hospitals, hotels and commercial avenues. Bahria has been featured by international news agencies’ GlobalPost claimed that in 2013, Bahria houses some 100,000 people in Rawalpindi alone. Newsweek calls it as Pakistan’s Gateway to Paradise.On October 6, 2011, the Los Angeles Times referred to Bahria as a ‘functioning state within a non-functioning one’. Regardless of that Bahria has been subject to controversies, it is referred to as a symbol of inequality, blamed for illegal encroachment of forests and illegal alliance with military. Communities: - Bahria Rawalpindi - Bahria Islamabad - Bahria Town Lahore - Bahria Orchard Lahore - Bahria Karachi - Bahria Nawabshah - Bahria Golf City


--- [Bahria Town - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Revenue 10 billion USD (2015) Headquarters Rawalpindi Total assets 20 billion USD (2015) | Number of employees 550,000 Type of business Private | | Key people Malik Riaz Hussain, ChairmanAhmed Ali Riaz Malik, CEO Products TownCommercial areaPlotsHouseVillaRestaurantsHotelGolf clubsHospitals Profiles | Bahria Town (Urdu: بحریہ ٹاؤن) is a Rawalpindi-based privately owned real-estate development company which owns, develops and manages properties across Pakistan. It is the largest private real estate company in Asia. Contents - Jaidad com pk pakistan property tax 2016 expert advice from bahria town lahore - Bahria Town Rawalpindi - Bahria Enclave Islamabad - Bahria Town Lahore - Bahria Town Karachi - Bahria Golf City - Hospitality - Recognition and awards - Controversies - References Founded in late-1990s, it established its first gated community in southern Rawalpindi on the Grand Trunk Road, which by mid-2000s had expanded into nine phases divided into two compounds. Its second gated community opened in Lahore, which is influenced by Greco-Roman culture, and is build in Southern Lahore. In 2015, it launched the Bahria Town Karachi, the largest of its gated communities, while Bahria Enclave Islamabad (launched in 2013) is the smallest of them. Most of these communities are large towns in their own right, its oldest community in Rawalpindi spans over 40,000 square acres. The under-construction Bahria Town Karachi spans over 44,000 acres is the largest privately owned residential community in the country. Combined, its projects have the capacity to house over a million people. Apart from gated towns, the company owns several shopping complexes including the Mall of Lahore and the under-construction Mall of Islamabad, chain of cinemas under the brand of Cine Gold, a chain of supermarkets under the banner of Green Valley Hypermarket and skyscrapers including the Bahria Icon Tower, which is the tallest in Pakistan. With over 100,000 employees, the group also is the developer of Grand Jamia Mosque, Lahore, which is the seventh largest in the world, and is constructing the third largest mosque in Karachi. The under-construction Rafi Cricket Stadium stadium when completed will also be the largest in the country. On November 2016, Bahria entered into a contract with Hyatt to develop four properties across Pakistan, including two golf resort's, worth combined $600 million. The properties would be owned by Bahria. Bahria projects usually house upper middle and high income Pakistanis, these communities have private security, ability to restrict access to non-residents and are energy independent from the national grid. Bahria gated communities are home to private schools including those operate by the company, private hospitals, hotels and commercial avenues. Bahria has been featured by international news agencies' GlobalPost claimed that in 2013, Bahria houses some 100,000 people in Rawalpindi alone. Newsweek calls it as Pakistan's Gateway to Paradise. On October 6, 2011, Los Angeles Times refereed Bahria as 'functioning state within a non-functioning one'. Regardless of that Bahria has been subject to controversies, it is referred to as a symbol of inequality, blamed for illegal encroachment of forests and illegal alliance with military. Malik Riaz Hussain, a major real estate mogul and founder of Bahria Town has an approximate net worth of US$1.1 billion. Jaidad com pk pakistan property tax 2016 expert advice from bahria town lahore Bahria Town Rawalpindi The original project, the gated community has over 100,000 people and has series of projects. It is divided into various phases and smaller projects. Unlike other housing societies in Pakistan, Bahria produces its own electricity and sells it to its resident through the Bahria Town Electric Supply Company. Bahria Town projects in Rawalpindi and Lahore were running respectively 12 and 9 megawatts of generation units of their own. Bahria Town also has constructed 3 grid stations with its own resources and also provides underground lines to its residents. There is no load shedding in Bahria Town projects. Bahria Enclave Islamabad Bahria Enclave Islamabad is a housing scheme launched by Bahria Town in July 2011. It is located approximately 8 km (15 minutes) drive from Chak Shahzad, the Park Road & the Kuri Road with access from Kashmir Highway, Lehtrar Road & Islamabad Highway. On January 31, 2012, Capital Development Authority approved the plan for development of Jinnah Avenue in Zone-IV. The construction project of four-lane road would link main Kuri Road to Kuri Model Village and is awarded to Bahria Town. Bahria Town Lahore It is a flagship gated community in Lahore. The community is home to the Grand Jamia Mosque, Lahore which is the seventh largest mosque in the world which has a total capacity of 70,000 people. Bahria Town Karachi Includes residential and commercial plots, bahria apartments and bahria homes in addition to exclusive block for overseas residents. Situated 9 km from Toll Plaza on Karachi-Hyderabad Super highway. Bahria town Karachi is the most prestigious project of bahria town ever. The bahria town is planned excellently to counter all the problems faced by Karachiites. It is going to have the widest ( 18 lane ) bouleward in world, named Jinnah Avenue with a majestic grand gate house towering higher than 110 feet. Bahria Golf City Under-construction golf themed gated community which includes an Hyatt Gold Resort. Hospitality On November 14, 2016, Hyatt Hotels Corporation and Bahria Town Group entered into agreement in Abu Dhabi to develop four properties in Pakistani worth over $600 million. All properties are under-construction as of 2016. Recognition and awards After success at national level, Bahria has been featured by international magazines and news agencies, referred to as the prosperous face of Pakistan. According to Emirates 24/7 Bahria Town is 'where Pakistan's new middle class takes refuge from the Taliban attacks and endless power cuts that plague the rest of the country.' GlobalPost claimed that in 2013, Bahria houses some 100,000 people in total. Newsweek calls it as Pakistan's Gateway to Paradise. On October 6, 2011, Los Angeles Times refereed Bahria as 'functioning state within a non-functioning one'. Regardless of that Bahria has been subject to controversies, it is referred to as a symbol of inequality, blamed for illegal encroachment of forests and unholy alliance with military. Controversies Bahria has been subject to controversies, it is referred to as a symbol of inequality, blamed for illegal encroachment of forests and unholy alliance with military. Ayesha Siddiqa, a civilian military analyst and author of "Military Inc: Inside Pakistan Military Economy," alleges that those links have allowed him to acquire land, in some cases returning a percentage to senior officers as developed plots. Chief Executive of Bahria Town, Ali Riaz Malik has submitted his statement regarding the Arsalan Iftikhar (son of Chief Justice of Pakistan Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry) suo moto case in the Supreme Court of Pakistan that Bahria Town was not behind any allegations against Arsalan and that the court's proceedings were not aimed at investigating the affairs of Bahria Town. The written reply also said that if any statement were made against Bahria Town or against its administration, then the organisation would have the right to respond to it. In April 2016, Malik Riaz Hussain's son, Ahmed Ali Riaz Malik, was named in the Panama Papers.


--- [Bahria Town Private Limited - Real Estate Development Company in Karachi] ---
Bahria Town Private Limited – Real Estate Development Company in Karachi - bahriatownoffice - Apr 5, 2019 - 2 min read Bahria Town (Private) Limited is a privately owned real-estate development company in Karachi which develops, owns and administer properties across Pakistan. The company was established in late-1990s and developed its first gated community in southern Rawalpindi region on the Grand Trunk Road. This was the same project which was further been expanded into nine phases in 2000 which then got distributed into two compounds. Moreover, its second gated community got established in Lahore, which was heavily influenced by Greco-Roman culture. In 2015, the company then launched Bahria Town Karachi, which was amongst he biggest one of the gated communities they build. On the other side, Bahria Enclave Islamabad came up as their smallest gated community launched in 2013.Also, when we talk about the communities they build all these years; they have mostly been the large sized townships. While the oldest one of them being in Rawalpindi the community spreads to over 16,000 hectares (40,000 acres).On the other side, The under-construction Bahria Town Karachi comes as the largest privately owned residential community in the country with its reach to over 16,000 hectares (40,000 acres) . As a whole, the townships they have build can provide shelter to more than million people in the country. The company is led and founded by Asia’s largest real-estate developer, Malik Riaz Hussain, who is also a chairman of the Bahria Town. He is the leading man who has enabled Pakistan and its people to stand shoulder on shoulder with other technologically advanced countries in the world. Mr Malik Riaz Hussain firmly believes education as the real power of the masses and wants the whole country to follow the use alongside. He doesn’t believe in making people dependent on the government and want them to become self skilled and reliant with all the high end education and modern skills. bahria town, malik riaz hussain,


--- [BAHRIA TOWN KARACHI 2 - Tajarat Properties] ---
BAHRIA TOWN KARACHI 2 Booking Start from 5th JanuaryIntroduction The main aim of this newly-launched housing society is to upgrade the lives and living standards of thousands of people in Karachi city. The developers and owners of Bahria Town proudly present this new phase with ultra-modern amenities and features. On top of all, this society phase is located at the prime location of Karachi with a lot of nearby accessible landmarks and places. Furthermore, it is a gated community that will protect the residents of this housing society. The development work in Bahria Town is going on and it will be completed in a very short time. For those people who are looking for a luxurious and peaceful lifestyle, the BTK 2 is the best opportunity to invest for residential and commercial purposes. On top of that, this society also gives business opportunities to the people of Karachi. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Developers & Owners Bahria Town is the other name for luxury that has marked its name by providing the residents of Pakistan with top-notch facilities, features, and infrastructure. It provides a premium lifestyle with lavish amenities at affordable price rates. Also in other cities, their housing schemes comprise a variety of options such as apartments, villas, plots, and townhouses. The development work also includes a commercial hub, recreational facilities, cinemas, shopping malls, restaurants, resorts, theme parks, and many more. Bahria Town Karachi 2 BOOK NOW Bahria Town Karachi 2 Developers Previous Projects BTK 2 is a development project of a leading real estate company Bahria Town Private Limited. The company has done high-quality and successful projects in the previous years ranging from residential, recreational, and commercial developments. Bahria Town is a well-known housing project that is famous because of its modern and lavish amenities. The developers have constructed several residential and commercial buildings, amusement parks, shopping malls, golf courses, and many other amusement facilities. In short, they have built high-end infrastructure with a well-managed master plan that offers a top-class lifestyle to residents and investors. Bahria Town Karachi 2 provides an eco-friendly and family-friendly environment to its residents. This mega project is designed to provide with waste drainage & disposal system, sewerage treatment system, water supply, and underground electricity facilities. Some of the previous projects of Bahria Town developers are as follow: - Bahria Town Rawalpindi - Bahria Town Islamabad - Bahria Town Lahore - Bahria Enclave Islamabad - Mall of Islamabad - Hoshang Pearl, Karachi - Bahria Icon Tower - Opal 225, Karachi - Bahria Town Tower, Karachi - Bahria Greens Karachi - Central Park Apartments - Bahria Farmhouses Karachi - Hoshang Pearl Luxury Apartments - Bahria Town Icon - Bahria Sports City - Bahria Golf City Karachi - Bahria Heights - Bahria Homes - Bahria Apartments Bahria Town Karachi 2 NOC In the vicinity of Karachi, this newly-launched housing project is going to set an unmatched bar of living. For those people who are looking for long-term investment opportunities, this project gives them a splendid investment opportunity. But we all know that legal status and NOC (No Objection Certificate) are the things that experienced investors see on a priority basis to earn high profits in the future. NOC plays an integral role as it provides details about the construction plans, developer, zoning regulations, the land area uses, and safe & security actions that must be taken during the process of construction. We have good news for you as this housing society is NOC-approved by Sindh Building Control Authority (SBCA) and Sindh Development Authority (SDA). You can also confirm it from the head office of the SBCA and SDA departments of Sindh. So, investing in this legally approved project is completely secure and safe. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Demand The owner of BTK 2 recently announced the launch of this mega project. The demand for Bahria Town Phase 2 in Karachi is highly increasing due to the updated and appealing developments inside the community that are offering incredible investment opportunities and peaceful residences. Right after the establishment of Bahria Town, it has become the first choice of property investors and buyers, and the center of attention for Karachi people. No doubt, it’s a well-known sector of real estate in Pakistan and also quite popular at the International level. To cater to the increasing demands of investors, the developers of Bahria town have launched another Phase with ultra-modern amenities. It has covered a large land area with luxurious features and amenities. One of the most appealing features of this project is its peaceful and prime location that is separated from the hustle and bustle of Karachi city. Its demand is increasing with each passing day because it provides the chance to have a home in a luxurious setting at the most affordable rates. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Location One of the most attractive features of this housing project among investors is its prime and peaceful location. Bahria Town Karachi 2 location is away from the city’s hustle and bustle and this feature makes it unique from the other housing societies. It’s the most ideal location to build your dream home and live in a calm and eco-friendly environment. If you follow BTK 2 map, it is ideally located on M-9 (Karachi to Hyderabad) Motorway, which will make easy access to this society. If you are a resident of Karachi or are aware of the Karachi roads, then you will notice that this housing society is close to all the famous places and landmarks of the city. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Map Look from the Bahria Town Karachi 2 Map, it is situated at the most standard location that provides grander and unmatched amenities and facilities to the residents inside the society. Its ultra-modern infrastructure ensures a sophisticated and comfortable surrounding for everyone around there. The housing society is about 35 kilometers away from Bahria Town Karachi. Furthermore, DHA phase 1 and Jinnah International Airport are in proximity to this housing society. While keeping in mind the rush and noise of Karachi, the developers developed this housing society away from the city. This has become the plus point of this project for the future residents of this housing society. BTK 2 Accessibilities The Bahria Town Phase 2 is a fairly accessible housing society. Its located in the most anticipated area of Karachi offering different commercial and residential plots at a cost-friendly payments plan. Furthermore, investment in this housing society is quite a practical and safe choice for all domestic and international investors as it’s a legally approved developmental housing project. The most accessible points of this housing society are as follow: - M-9 (Karachi to Hyderabad) Motorway is about 5 minutes far from this housing society. - Jinnah International Airport is almost 30 minutes drive away from this housing project. - M-10 Motorway is around 30 minutes drive away from phase 2 of Bahria Town Karachi. - Malir Cantonment is about 50 minute drive away from this housing scheme. - The super-Highway toll plaza is nearly 34 minutes drive away from Bahria Town Phase 2. - Dream World Family Resort is approximately 20 minutes drive away from this housing project. - Gulzar E Hijri Scheme 33 is about 55 minutes far from BTK2. - Karachi Northern Bypass is around 39 minutes drive away from this housing society. BTK 2 Nearby Places & Landmarks As this housing society is located on Karachi – Hyderabad Motorway (M-9), so many areas and roads are attached to this location. In addition, this society has great access to major hospitals, educational organizations, leisure spots, and commercial areas of Karachi city. Some of the nearby places and landmarks of BKT 2 are - North Town Residency Gadap Town is nearly 50 minutes drive away from Bahria Town Phase 2. - Al Ghafoor Green City is approximately 45 minutes drive away from this housing society. - Memon Medical Institute Hospital is about 45 minute drive away from this housing project. - Fiesta Family Water Park is about 30 minutes drive away from this housing scheme. - Shah Faisal Town is about 40 minutes drive away from Bahria Karachi 2. BTK 2 is sited away from the hustle & bustle of the City Bahria Town Karachi 2 is located away from the hustle and bustle of the main city, typically in a rural area, to provide a safe and secure environment for its residents. It is away from the rush and havoc of city life and provides a peaceful, green, and secure environment for its residents. Furthermore, it is a private housing society ideally located on the M-9 Motorway, Super Highway, about 20 kilometers from the city center of Karachi. The Society offers a variety of facilities including sports complexes, parks, shopping malls, schools, hospitals, and a wide range of housing options. Furthermore, the area is also well connected to the rest of the city through a system of roads and public transportation. This housing society has educational institutions, healthcare facilities, amusement activities, sports facilities, marts, grocery stores, much more facilities inside the community. That is the main reason it’s sited away from the city so that you can have everything within your reach. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Master Plan The developers of Bahria Town have planned and organized a master plan of about 4756 Acres of land area. According to the reports, 40 % of the development work has been completed and its soon going to be launched at the start of 2023. Also, the overall area of design is roughly 202 KM. Sectors A, B, and D are in progress, while Sector C is still untouched. These all sectors will be further divided into different Blocks. According to the sources, the association’s central avenue would be called “Iqbal Avenue”. There are many priorities where the construction work is almost completed and soon it will be done. Housing, professional, industrial, medical, academic, and much more areas are added to the master plan of phase 2. The housing society will provide flats, houses, villas, and property plots for residential purposes. In addition, the squares, offices, retailers, plazas, and plots will be available for commercial purposes. All these features and facilities make this housing society worth living in that is going to provide everything inside the community. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Plots for Sale Bahria Town Karachi 2 Residential Plots The developer of BTK 2 is giving you a golden opportunity to invest in this magnificent housing project. The people who wish to live in modern and smart homes with elite-class amenities, this place is perfect for them to have a home. This housing society is comprised of different housing blocks, and each of them has its particular design and layout. The plots of blocks are well-maintained and spacious. There are also lush green trees and beautiful views of the city. - 125 square yard - 250 square yard - 500 square yard - 1000 square yard Bahria Town Karachi 2 Commercial Plots The most demanding plots in this housing society are the residential plots that are selling in great numbers. The people who are business oriented, this society is the best place to start and grow your business. You can start your business in a spacious area and the best thing is that the infrastructure of the society is already in place. In the commercial area of BTK 2, all the top-class features and amenities will be available. This housing project also offers different sizes of plots for business purposes with a wide range of services. Some of the different sizes of commercial plots in Bahria Town Karachi 2 are as follows: - 125 square Yard - 250 square Yard Bahria Town Karachi 2 Villas In the heart of BTK 2, a high-end lavish territory is located for the residents. This amazing development of the society delivers extraordinary scenery of the city by making it the perfect space for a high-class modern living standard. The luxurious Villas are consisting of 3 bedrooms with top-notch amenities that make it the perfect look in society. So, the people who want luxurious and smart housing at reasonable rates, need to buy these villas as soon as possible. Start living your dream life now! The size of the plot available is as follows: - 125 square yard Expected Properties to Launch Later There are some properties that developers will launch later, such as the following properties: - 2000 Square Yards of Residential Plots - 250 Square Yards & 500 Square Yards Villas - 4000 Square Yards and Greater Sizes of Other Plots plus Land for Farmhouses All the above-mentioned residential and commercial properties will provide a smart and facilitated living standard to the people of Karachi. Additionally, the price rates of the above properties will be affordable, and an easy payment plan will be designed. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Payment Plan The Bahria Town Karachi 2 payment plan has been designed and planned carefully to provide a luxurious and protected lifestyle to the residents. One of the most exclusive sites for investors and buyers is Bahria Town Karachi. It’s a golden investment opportunity and will provide a high return in the future. On top of all, it has everything that one needs to have a peaceful and luxurious life. Bahria Town Phase 2 offers futuristic living and greater investment chances at an inexpensive price rate. It proposes a wide range of properties and unparalleled amenities to upgrade your living standard. According to the reports, you can purchase any property with 4 years of an easy and flexible payment plan by giving 10 % of the down payment. Before the completion of the payment plan, the possession will be handed over to the property owner. The expected payment plan and price rates are the following: 125 Square Yards Plots in BTK 2 The 125 square-yard residential plots are expected to be priced between 30 lacs to 35 lacs. If are willing to book your plots in these residential plots, then your booking will start from 3 lacs. The developer has designed and planned the payment plan in a very flexible way. The rest of the amount could be paid in 4 years of the easy and flexible installment plan. Furthermore, the payment plan consists of monthly and quarterly installments. After the completion of all installments, the possession of your property will be handed over to you. 250 Square Yards Plots in BTK 2 The 250-square-yard residential plots are expected to be priced between 50 lacs to 60 lacs. The booking of this specific block is starting from 5 lac Rupees. According to the Bahria Town 2 payment plan, the remaining amount could be paid in convenient 4 years installments. Besides, the payment plan of this residential plot will also have quarterly and monthly easy installments. 500 Square Yards Plots in BTK 2 The amount of a residential plot of 500 square yards is around 75 lacs to 90 lacs and you can pay this amount in 4 years of easy installments. The amount is also payable in monthly and quarterly installments. Furthermore, the booking amount of 500 square yards is starting from 7 and a half lac Rupees. Hence, the possession of this residential plot in Bahria Town 2 will be handed over to you after the completion of your all property payments. 1000 Square Yards Plots in BTK 2 The residential plots of 1000 square yards are expected to be between 120 – 125 lacs Rupees and the starting booking amount is 12 lacs Rupees. This well-organized and well-designed payment plan will also have different plans, such as monthly and quarterly easy installments. After the booking amount, you can pay the remaining amount in an easy payment plan of 4 years. Also, the possession of your desired property will be given to you after the completion of your all payments. 125 Square Yards Villas in BTK 2 The developer of Bahria Town 2 is also offering luxurious and updated villas at a very affordable price rate. The price range of luxury villas ranges from 1.2 crores to 1.5 crore Rupees. Same as the above, the payments are payable in 4 years of a flexible payment plan. The bookings of these villas are starting from the 25 % down payment. This payment plan will contain several monthly and quarterly easy installments. Similarly, you can get possession of your land after completing all dues. 2 Beds Apartments in BTK 2 These modern designs and unique living areas are located in the center of this magnificent Bahria Town Phase 2 Karachi. Just like the Bahria Town Apartments Precinct, the 2 Bedroom apartments will be developed in Phase 2. The price range of these apartments are ranging from 85 lacs to 1 crore Rupees. Also, you can get your possession after completing all payments in the payment plan. 3 Beds Apartments in BTK 2 These are perfect living spaces to live in a peaceful and comfortable living standard with your family. Like the Bahria Town Apartments Precinct 19, 4 Bedroom apartments will be designed for you all. The expected price rate of these 3-bedroom villas ranges from 1.5 crores to 1.8 crore Rupees. Just like the other plots, the possession will be handed over to you after paying you all installments. 4 Beds Apartments in BTK 2 If you have a big family and want to enjoy life to the fullest, then you have to choose 4-bedroom apartments in Bahria Town 2. These apartments will be quite similar to the apartments in Bahria Town 1. The booking price of these apartments is starting from 2 crores to 2.6 crores Rupees. Furthermore, the possession of the 4-bedroom apartments will be provided to you when you are done with your all installments. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Payment Plan of Residential Plots - The total price is PKR 4,499,000 - The down payment price of PKR 499,000 - The registration fee is PKR 10,000 - The form fee is PKR 1,000 - The quarterly installments/4 years are PKR 250,600 - The total price is PKR 7,499,000 - The down payment price is PKR 799,000 - The registration fee is PKR 10,000 - The form fee is PKR 1,000 - The quarterly installments/4 years are PKR 418,750 - The total price is PKR 12,999,000 - The down payment price is PKR 999,000 - The registration fee is PKR 10,000 - The form fee is PKR 1,000 - The quarterly installments/ 4 years are PKR 750,000 - The total price is PKR 22,499,000 - The down payment price is PKR 1,999,000 - The registration fee is PKR 10,000 - The form fee is PKR 1,000 - The quarterly installments/4 years are PKR 1,281,250 Bahria Town Karachi 2 Payment Plan of Commercial Plots - The total price is PKR 19,999,000 - The down payment price is PKR 2,199,000 - The registration fee is PKR 10,000 - The form fee is PKR 1,000 - The quarterly installments/4 years are PKR 1,112,500 - The total price is PKR 34,999,000 - The down payment price is PKR 2,999,000 - The registration fee is PKR 10,000 - The form fee is PKR 1,000 - The quarterly installments/4 years are PKR 2,000,000 Bahria Town Karachi 2 Payment Plan of Villas Villas of 5 Marla BTK 2 : - The total price is PKR 14,999,000 - The down payment price is PKR 1,499,000 - The registration fee is PKR 10,000 - The form fee is PKR 1,000 - The quarterly installments/4 years are PKR 843,750 Why BTK 2 is better than other Housing Societies? Let’s compare the price rates of BTK 2 and other housing societies. It seems like the price rates of Bahria Town are higher than the other housing societies but it’s not like that at all. If you see the payment plan of the other housing societies, you will see that BTK 2 payment plan is quite reasonable than the nearby housing societies, but with more luxury and amenities. And, the bookings are starting from 10 % of the down payment. All these properties in this housing society come with matchless amenities and features for the residents and nearby people. You will not have a place like this in any other area of Karachi and you can see that by visiting this housing society. The Bahria Town 2 is one of its kind with more advanced attractions and features that make it unique from other housing societies. In short, it’s a matchless housing project in Karachi. Another appealing feature is its prime location that will provide you high rate benefits in the future, investment in this housing project will secure your future and life. The developers are providing you with a golden opportunity by investing in your desirable plots, So, if you are interested, the n book your plot as soon as possible because the prices will increase in the next few years. BTK 2 Facilities & Amenities Bahira Town 2 is one of its kind to provide stunning developments in residential and commercial areas of society. one of its most attractive things is the master plan of this housing society which includes, commercial, residential, educational facilities, medical facilities, and recreational activities for its valued residents. Bahria Town 2 is considered the most lavish residential and commercial project with a budget-friendly payment plan. You will experience a modern living standard with top-notch features like gyms, fitness clubs, swimming pools, sports courts, recreational parks, green gardens, spas, and much more. Bahria Town is the other name for modernization which offers the following modern features to its residents: Gated Community: Bahria Town is known for its top-class security system that they provide to its residents for safety. Just like the other phases of Bahria Town in other cities, a gated community has been established in Bahria Town Phase 2. They have their forces for security purposes. Furthermore, a large number of security guards are placed at all gates of the housing society outsider will be allowed inside the community without having rigorous security checks. You will feel safe and secure by living in this housing society. Surveillance System: The management of this housing society has installed CCTV cameras for the security of the residents. Society’s security and surveillance measures include CCTV cameras, scanners, facial recognition software, and safe networks of communication that allows management to look at all the activities 24/7. Educational Institutions: Bahria Town also provides you with educational facilities that are the basic need of all the students in the society. this housing society has different educational organizations such as a Montessori School, a British School, and an international school that provide an international curriculum to the students. High-quality education is guaranteed in this housing society. By living in a posh area, you will also get a high-quality education. Easy Transportation: The housing society also gives you the facility of transportation that will connect you from different parts of the city. It will become easy for you to move from one place to another place. Furthermore, the roads of the society are so extensive that will make your moving easy. Healthcare Facilities: Medical facilities are also available inside the community of Bahria Town 2 that will assist the residents in all cases. Comprehensive healthcare facilities will be available for the residents that include treatment and diagnosis of injuries and common illnesses. Ambulance facilities will also be available for people 24/7. A team of expert and professional doctors and nurses will treat the patients from morning until evening. Residents of Bahria Town Phase 2 Karachi can also rely on several medical pharmacies that will supply all kinds of medications. Amusement Parks: There are also some amusement parks in the heart of this housing society where you and your children will have fun in your a free-time. In these amusement parks, your children will be able to enjoy different attractions and rides. So, it’s fun to live in this society. Jamiah Mosque: In the heart of this housing society, there is Grand Jamiah Mosque is developed beautifully with top-notch facilities. There is a beautiful prayer hall and minaret at the mosque that will assist many people in religious gatherings. Shopping Center: This project also offers a variety of entertainment and shopping points which includes, shopping centers, cafes, restaurants, a cinema, a bowling alley, and a water theme park. Bahria Town Karachi 2 Salient Features BTK 2 has the following salient features that make it unique from other societies: - Mosques - Schools - Healthcare centers - Museums - Shopping centers - 24/7 Security - Dancing Fountain - Gated Community - E-Transportation System - Recreational Parks - Banks and ATM - Entertainment &Leisure - Eco-friendly Environment - Underground Electricity System - Solid Sewerage & Waste Disposal System - Easy Transportation System - Golf Clubs and Gold Courses - Uninterrupted Supply of Water & Electricity - Playground for kids - High-speed internet bandwidth with the backup of satellite - Well-Equipped Fitness & Gym Center - Commercial Zones Bahria Town Karachi 2 Booking Procedure The booking procedure of this housing society is quite simple and easy. Follow the below-mentioned steps and documentation procedure for your plot booking and get your possession: The documents that are required for the booking procedure are as follows: - One photocopy of the applicant’s CNIC - Two copies of the passport-size picture - One copy of your nominee/kin’s CNIC - Pay order of the down payment (token) Bahria Town Karachi 2 Application Process Bahria Town is the gem of real estate developments and a perfect choice for domestic and international investors. This housing society is a complete project that offers high-class amenities, features, and infrastructure. It is a refuge for people seeking for calm, secure, and opulent lifestyle. The application process for BTK 2 is very simple and easy. Follow the steps to make your property application successful: - You must get the appropriate booking application form from the office, to purchase a property in Bahria Town Karachi 2. - Complete the application form by entering the correct information about yourself and your nominee. All the details must be correct. - Attach a copy of the applicant’s CNIC, 2 passport-sized photographs of the applicant, the CNIC of your nominee/kin, and the payment order for the registration form token - Submit the form to your authorized representative or the nearest office of Bahria Town. BTK 2 Pros & Cons If you want to pay by a pay order or promissory note, then the booking application form must include payee details and society’s official bank account details for every bank. Also, you must send your token number to Bahria Town Karachi Private Limited. Bahria Town 2 has promised to provide the residents with the best possible amenities and services. There are some pros and cons of this housing society: Pros Here are Advantages of BTK2- Education Organizations - Extensive Roads - Healthcare and Clinics Facilities - Highways - Freshwater Resources & Sui Gas Availability - 24/7 Power and Water Supply - Distinctive Entrance - Uninterrupted Security System - Underground Electrification - Gated Community - Mosques - Roadway Lighting - Playgrounds & Walking Trails Cons Here is only Disadvantage Of BTK2- Perception about higher rates of properties Bahria Town Karachi 2 Development Updates The developers of Bahria Town have always impressed their investors and clients with their speedy development projects. The developmental work of newly-launched BTK 2 is completed almost 40 % and the rest of the development work will be completed in no time. You can look at the graceful development of the main entrance and gate. The grand entrance gate is finished in a grey structure and the finishing touches are in progress. The development work of the roundabout and Iqbal Avenue are quite appealing to the people. An expert team of engineers, laborers, planners, designers, and architects have worked hard with the help of modern technological equipment. The horticulture work is also started and is ongoing. The whole development will be completed on international standard work and you will be amazed by seeing its final touch. You must visit this magnificent place in person for a great experience. Reasons to invest in Bahria Town Karachi 2 Cost-effective: This housing society is the most appreciated in the Karachi neighborhood. On top of all, it offers constant power, cutting-edge security, wide streets, no water problems, and world-class facilities to the resident at affordable rates. The Regional Contractors and Builders’ interest: BTK 2 is so well-known that all the regional property contractors and builders are interested to complete their properties in Phase 2 of Bahria Town. There are so many residential and commercial projects in the process. In short, it’s the favorite place of contractors and builders. High Investment Returns: One of the most satisfying things about this housing society is that it provides higher investment returns in the future. You will feel your future safe and secure by investing in Bahria Town 2. Additionally, golf courses, communities, kid’s parks, game rooms, walking trails parks golf courses, and many other recreational activities are available inside the community. Tajarat Properties are the most reliable sales and marketing partner of Bahria Town. Former Creativities: All the previous promises that have been made in Rawalpindi and Lahore have been satisfied by the developers. Initially, Bahria Town Karachi was launched in 2015 and it’s still developing more and more. Frequently Asked Questions Here are some answers to your most commonly asked questions regarding this project: Q1. Who owned Bahria Town Karachi 2? Ans: This housing society is owned by Malik Riaz Hussain. Q2. Is BTK 2 a legal housing society? Ans: Yes, BTK 2 is officially approved by SBCA and the SDA departments of Sindh. Q3. What’s the exact location of BTK 2? Ans: This housing society is located on M9 Motorway (Karachi-Hyderabad), Karachi. Q4. What’s the booking date for Bahria Town Karachi 2? Ans: The bookings of this housing society are starting from 5th January 2023. Q5. Is BTK 2 a good investment opportunity? Ans: Of course, BTK 2 is the best housing society due to its top-notch amenities, prime location, affordable rates, and high-quality infrastructure. Q6. How to book a plot in Bahria Town Karachi 2? Ans: You can easily book your plots by contacting Tajarat Properties or you can also visit their official website. Q7. How to verify your property in BTK 2? Ans: For property verification, you need to contact the official management of BTK 2. Q8. How to check the Balloting results of BTK 2? Ans: For the balloting results, you are advised to contact BTK 2, the official management team. Q9. What are the sizes of different residential plots in BTK 2? Ans Residential plots of 125, 250, 500, and 1000 square yards are available in this housing scheme. Q10. What are the sizes of different commercial plots in Bahria Town Karachi 2? Ans: 125 and 250 square yards of commercial plots available in the housing society. Q11. Can we visit the BKT2 head office? Ans: Yes, you can visit the head office of BTK2. Q12. How many sectors are in Phase 2 of Bahria Town? Ans: There are three Sectors in this housing society such as; Sector A, Sector B, and Sector D. Q13. What are the facilities in BTK2? Ans: This housing society provides the following facilities to its residents: - Mosques - Schools - Healthcare centers - Museums - Shopping centers - 24/7 Security - Dancing Fountain - Gated Community - E-Transportation System - Recreational Parks - Banks and ATM - Entertainment &Leisure - Eco-friendly Environment - Underground Electricity System - Solid Sewerage & Waste Disposal System - Easy Transportation System - Golf Clubs and Gold Courses - Uninterrupted Supply of Water & Electricity - Playground for kids - High-speed internet bandwidth with the backup of satellite - Well-Equipped Fitness & Gym Center - Commercial Zones Q14. Are plots of Bahria Town Karachi 2 available in installments? Ans: Yes, this housing society is offering residential plots in installments. Q15. How BTK2 is unique from other housing societies? Ans: This housing society is an excellent project in Karachi, Sindh. A team of experts has done hard work to provide the residents with the most luxurious lifestyle at affordable rates. cheap car shipping quote Q16. What is the address of the Bahria Town Karachi 2 office? Ans: The head office address of BTK 2 is Super Highway, Bahria Town, Karachi, Sindh. Q17. What’s the contact number of BTK2? Ans: BTK 2 head office contact number is 0800 00100. Q18. How can I book a plot in BTK2? Ans: The bookings of BTK2 plots are starting from 5th Jan 2023. Q19. Is Bahria Town Karachi 2 a good place to have a home? Ans: Yes, it’s the other name of modernization that provides luxury to the people of Pakistan and Overseas. It provides an eco-friendly and family-friendly environment to the residents. So, it’s a perfect place to have a home. Q20. Are BTK2 plots available for sale? Ans: Yes, BTK2 plots will be available for sale after 5th January 2023. Conclusion Bahria Town Karachi 2 is the right choice for those people who are looking for the most secure and peaceful housing society in Karachi. One of the most appealing things about this project is its prime location. Its located away from the hustle and bustle of the city on the M-9 (Karachi to Hyderabad) Motorway which offers exceptional amenities, easy accessibility to nearby landmarks, and amazing investment opportunities at affordable rates. This housing society is well-equipped with all the necessities and utilities, including a 24/7 water supply, electricity, gas supply, and a family-friendly environment. Furthermore, it has proximity to many hospitals, educational organizations, recreational parks, and shopping centers. In general, it’s the golden investment opportunity for investors looking for the best structures and secure housing schemes with high potential benefits in return. With the great facilities and the current inflationary trend offered in a housing society, it’s the perfect option for investment. Tajarat Properties are the most trustworthy sales and marketing partners of BTK 2. We have an expert team of real estate consultants, property advisors, and developers. We treat our clients like a family and build long-term relationships with them. Like Bahira Town 2, we also have the top-notch other real estate projects which include Blue World City, Capital Smart City, Lahore Smart City & New City Paradise. So, CONTACT US NOW FOR BOOKINGS! Bahria Town Karachi 2 BOOK NOW
