=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hiram Revels' letter to President Grant - NCpedia]
The great mass of the white people have abandoned their hostility to the general government and Republican principles, and to-day accept as a fact that all men are born free and equal, and I believe are ready to guarantee to my people every right and privilege guaranteed to an American citizen.
URL: https://www.ncpedia.org/biography/revelsletter

[Hiram R. Revels - Wikipedia]
On November 6, 1875, Revels wrote a letter to fellow Republican and President Ulysses S. Grant that was widely reprinted. Revels denounced Ames and the carpetbaggers for manipulating the black vote for personal benefit, and for keeping alive wartime hatreds: [21]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hiram_R._Revels

[Hiram Rhodes Revels | Military Wiki - Fandom]
On November 6, 1875, Revels, as a Republican, wrote a letter to Republican President Ulysses S. Grant that was widely reprinted. Revels denounced Ames and the carpetbaggers for manipulating the Black vote for personal benefit, and for keeping alive wartime hatreds: [9]
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/Hiram_Rhodes_Revels

[Black History Month: Hiram Revels]
On November 6, 1875, Revels wrote a letter to Republican President Ulysses S. Grant, one that was widely reprinted in the press, in which he denounced Governor Ames as a "carpetbagger" (a pejorative term for northerners who exploited the south after the war) for manipulating the African-American vote for personal benefit, and for keeping alive ...
URL: https://potus-geeks.livejournal.com/1410180.html

[.: February 2014]
Ulysses S Grant the 18th President of the United States gives his testimony October 19th 1915. Ulysses S Grant was Grover Cleveland, President of the U.S. and 24th president of the United States.
URL: https://celestialangels.blogspot.com/2014/02/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hiram Revels' letter to President Grant - NCpedia] ---
See also: Hiram Revels Letter dated November 6, 1875. ….Since reconstruction, the masses of my people have been, as it were, enslaved in mind by unprincipled adventurers, who, caring nothing for country, were willing to stoop to anything no matter how infamous, to secure power to themselves and perpetuate it. My people are naturally Republicans and always will be, but as they grow older in freedom so do they in wisdom. A great portion of them have learned that they were being used as mere tools, and, as in the late election, not being able to correct existing evils among themselves, they determined by casting their ballots against those unprincipled adventurers, to overthrow them…. My people have been told by these schemers, when men have been placed on the ticket who were notoriously corrupt and dishonest, that they must vote for them; that the salvation of the party depended upon it; that the man who scratched a ticket was not a Republican. This is only one of the many means these unprincipled demagogues have devised to perpetuate the intellectual bondage of my people. To defeat this policy, at the late election men, irrespective of race, color, or party affiliation, united, and voted together against men known to be incompetent and dishonest. I cannot recognize, nor do the mass of my people who read, recognize the majority of the officials who have been in power for the past two years as Republicans…. The great mass of the white people have abandoned their hostility to the general government and Republican principles, and to-day accept as a fact that all men are born free and equal, and I believe are ready to guarantee to my people every right and privilege guaranteed to an American citizen. The bitterness and hate created by the late civil strife has, in my opinion, been obliterated in this state, except perhaps in some localities, and would have long since been obliterated in this state, were it not for some unprincipled men who would keep alive the bitterness of the past, and inculcate a hatred between the races, in order that they may aggrandize themselves by office, and its emoluments, to control my people, the effect of which is to degrade them. As an evidence that party lines in this state have been obliterated, men were supported without regard to their party affiliations, their birth, or their color, by those who heretofore have acted with the Democratic party, by this course giving an evidence of their sincerity that they have abandoned the political issues of the past, and were only desirous of inaugurating an honest state government, and restoring a mutual confidence between the races.; I give my opinion, that had our state adhered to Republican principles, and stood by the platform upon which it was elected, the state to-day would have been upon the highway of prosperity. Peace would have prevailed within her borders, and the Republican party would have embraced within her folds thousands of the best and purest citizens of which Mississippi can boast, and the election just passed would have been a Republican victory of not less than eighty to a hundred thousand majority; but the dishonest course which has been pursued has forced into silence and retirement nearly all of the leading Republicans who organized, and have heretofore led the party to victory. A few who have been bold enough to stand by Republican principles, and condemn dishonesty, corruption, and incompetency have been supported and elected by overwhelming majorities. If the state administration had adhered to Republican principles, advanced patriotic measures, appointed only honest and competent men to office, and sough to restore confidence between the races, bloodshed would have been unknown, peace would have prevailed, Federal interference been unthought of; harmony, friendship, and mutual confidence would have taken the place of the bayonet….


--- [Hiram R. Revels - Wikipedia] ---
Hiram Rhodes Revels (September 27, 1827 – January 16, 1901) was an American Republican politician, minister in the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and college administrator. Born free in North Carolina, he later lived and worked in Ohio, where he voted before the Civil War. Elected by the Mississippi legislature to the United States Senate as a Republican to represent Mississippi in 1870 and 1871 during the Reconstruction era, he was the first African American to serve in either house of the U.S. Congress.
During the American Civil War, Revels had helped organize two regiments of the United States Colored Troops and served as a chaplain. After serving in the Senate, Revels was appointed as the first president of Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College (now Alcorn State University), a historically black college. He served from 1871 to 1873. Later in his life, he served again as a minister.




--- [Hiram Rhodes Revels | Military Wiki - Fandom] ---
| Hiram Rhodes Revels | | |---|---| | United States Senator from Mississippi | | In office February 23, 1870 – March 3, 1871 | | | Preceded by | Albert G. Brown | | Succeeded by | James L. Alcorn | | Personal details | | | Born | [note 1] Fayetteville, North Carolina, U.S. | September 27, 1827 | Died | January 16, 1901 Aberdeen, Mississippi, U.S. | (aged 73) | Political party | Republican | | Spouse(s) | Phoebe A. Bass Revels | | Alma mater | Knox College | | Profession | Politician, Barber, Minister, College President | | Religion | African Methodist Episcopal Church | | Military service | | | Service/branch | Union Army | | Years of service | 1863 - 1865 | | Unit | Chaplain Corps | | Battles/wars | American Civil War | Hiram Rhodes Revels (September 27, 1827[note 1] – January 16, 1901) was a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal Church (AME), and a politician. He was the first person of color to serve in the United States Senate, and in the U.S. Congress overall. He represented Mississippi in 1870 and 1871 during Reconstruction. During the American Civil War, he helped organize two regiments of the United States Colored Troops and served as a chaplain. Early career[] Revels was born a free man in Fayetteville, North Carolina, to free parents of African and European ancestry. He was tutored by a black woman for his early education. In 1838 he went to live with his older brother, Elias B. Revels, in Lincolnton, North Carolina, and was apprenticed as a barber in his brother's shop. After Elias Revels died in 1841, his widow Mary transferred the shop to Hiram before she remarried.[citation needed] Revels attended the Union County Quaker Seminary in Indiana, and studied at a black seminary in Ohio.[citation needed] In 1845 Revels was ordained as a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal Church (AME); he served as a preacher and religious teacher throughout the Midwest: in Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Tennessee, Missouri, and Kansas. "At times, I met with a great deal of opposition," he later recalled. "I was imprisoned in Missouri in 1854 for preaching the gospel to Negroes, though I was never subjected to violence.[citation needed] He did additional religious studies from 1856 to 1857 at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois. He became a minister in a Methodist Episcopal Church in Baltimore, Maryland, where he also served as a principal for a black high school.[1] As a chaplain in the United States Army, Revels helped recruit and organize two black Union regiments during the Civil War in Maryland and Missouri. He took part at the battle of Vicksburg in Mississippi.[2] Political career[] In 1865, Revels left the AME Church and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church. He was assigned briefly to churches in Leavenworth, Kansas, and New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1866, he was given a permanent pastorship in Natchez, Mississippi, where he settled with his wife and five daughters, became an elder in the Mississippi District,[1] continued his ministerial work, and founded schools for black children. During Reconstruction, Revels was elected alderman in Natchez in 1868. In 1869 he was elected to represent Adams County in the Mississippi State Senate. As the Congressman John R. Lynch later wrote in his book on Reconstruction:[3] "So far as known he [Revels] had never voted, had never attended a political meeting, and of course, had never made a political speech. But he was a colored man, and presumed to be a Republican, and believed to be a man of ability and considerably above the average in point of intelligence." [Lynch 1913] In January 1870, Revels presented a remarkable opening prayer in the state legislature. Lynch said, "That prayer—one of the most impressive and eloquent prayers that had ever been delivered in the [Mississippi] Senate Chamber—made Revels a United States Senator. He made a profound impression upon all who heard him. It impressed those who heard it that Revels was not only a man of great natural ability but that he was also a man of superior attainments." Election to Senate[] At the time, the state legislature elected U.S. senators from Mississippi. In 1870 Revels was elected by a vote of 81 to 15 in the Mississippi State Senate to finish the term of one of the state's two seats in the US Senate, which had been left vacant since the Civil War. Previously, it had been held by Albert G. Brown, who withdrew from the US Senate in 1861 when Mississippi seceded.[4] When Revels arrived in Washington, DC, Southern Democrats opposed seating him in the Senate. For the two days of debate, the Senate galleries were packed with spectators at this historic event.[5] The Democrats based their opposition on the 1857 Dred Scott Decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that people of African ancestry were not and could not be citizens. They argued that no black man was a citizen before the 14th Amendment was ratified in 1868, and thus Revels could not satisfy the requirement for nine years' prior citizenship.[6] Supporters of Revels made a number of arguments, from the relatively narrow and technical to fundamental arguments about the meaning of the Civil War. Among the narrower arguments was that Revels was of mixed black and white ancestry (an "octoroon") and that the Dred Scott Decision ought to be read to apply only to those blacks who were of totally African ancestry; supporters also argued that Revels had long been a citizen (and indeed had voted in Ohio) and that he had met the nine-year requirement before the Dred Scott decision changed the rules and held that blacks could not be citizens.[7] The more fundamental arguments Revels supporters made boiled down to this idea: that the Civil War, and the Reconstruction Amendments, had overturned Dred Scott. The meaning of the war, and also of the Amendments, was that the subordination of the black race was no longer part of the American constitutional regime, and that therefore, it would be unconstitutional to bar Revels on the basis of the pre-Civil War Constitution's racist citizenship rules.[7] One Republican Senator supporting Revels mocked opponents as still fighting the "last battle-field" of the War.[7] On February 25, 1870, Revels, on a strict party-line vote of 48 to 8, with only Republicans voting in favor and only Democrats voting against, became the first African American to be seated in the United States Senate.[6] Everyone in the galleries stood to see him sworn in.[5] U.S. Senator[] Revels advocated compromise and moderation. He vigorously supported racial equality and worked to reassure senators about the capability of blacks. In his maiden speech to the Senate on March 16, 1870, he argued for the reinstatement of the black legislators of the Georgia General Assembly, who had been illegally ousted by white Democratic Party representatives. He said, "I maintain that the past record of my race is a true index of the feelings which today animate them. They aim not to elevate themselves by sacrificing one single interest of their white fellow citizens." (Ploski 18). He served on both the Committee of Education and Labor and the Committee on the District of Columbia. (At the time, the Congress administered the District.) Much of the Senate's attention focused on Reconstruction issues. While Radical Republicans called for continued punishment of ex-Confederates, Revels argued for amnesty and a restoration of full citizenship, provided they swore an oath of loyalty to the United States.[citation needed] Revels' term lasted one year, February 1870 to March 3, 1871. He quietly, persistently—although for the most part unsuccessfully—worked for equality. He spoke against an amendment proposed by Senator Allen G. Thurman (D-Ohio) to keep the schools of Washington, D.C., segregated. He nominated a young black man to the United States Military Academy; the youth was subsequently denied admission. Revels successfully championed the cause of black workers who had been barred by their color from working at the Washington Navy Yard. The northern press praised Revels for his oratorical abilities. His conduct in the Senate, along with that of the other African Americans who had been seated in the House of Representatives, prompted a white Congressman, James G. Blaine, to write in his memoir, "The colored men who took their seats in both Senate and House were as a rule studious, earnest, ambitious men, whose public conduct would be honorable to any race."[8] Revels supported bills to invest in developing infrastructure in Mississippi: to grant lands and right of way to aid the construction of the New Orleans and Northeastern Railroad (41st Congress 2nd Session S. 712), and levees on the Mississippi river (41st Congress 3rd Session S. 1136).[6] He argued for integration of schools in the District of Columbia.[1] College president[] Revels resigned two months before his term expired to accept appointment as the first president of Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College (now Alcorn State University), a historically black college located in Claiborne County, Mississippi. He taught philosophy as well. In 1873, Revels took a leave of absence from Alcorn to serve as Mississippi's secretary of state ad interim. He was dismissed from Alcorn in 1874 when he campaigned against the reelection of Governor of Mississippi Adelbert Ames. He was reappointed in 1876 by the new Democratic administration and served until his retirement in 1882. On November 6, 1875, Revels, as a Republican, wrote a letter to Republican President Ulysses S. Grant that was widely reprinted. Revels denounced Ames and the carpetbaggers for manipulating the Black vote for personal benefit, and for keeping alive wartime hatreds:[9] Since reconstruction, the masses of my people have been, as it were, enslaved in mind by unprincipled adventurers, who, caring nothing for country, were willing to stoop to anything no matter how infamous, to secure power to themselves, and perpetuate it..... My people have been told by these schemers, when men have been placed on the ticket who were notoriously corrupt and dishonest, that they must vote for them; that the salvation of the party depended upon it; that the man who scratched a ticket was not a Republican. This is only one of the many means these unprincipled demagogues have devised to perpetuate the intellectual bondage of my people.... The bitterness and hate created by the late civil strife has, in my opinion, been obliterated in this state, except perhaps in some localities, and would have long since been entirely obliterated, were it not for some unprincipled men who would keep alive the bitterness of the past, and inculcate a hatred between the races, in order that they may aggrandize themselves by office, and its emoluments, to control my people, the effect of which is to degrade them. Revels remained active as a Methodist Episcopal minister in Holly Springs, Mississippi and became an elder in the Upper Mississippi District.[1] For a time, he served as editor of the Southwestern Christian Advocate, the newspaper of the Methodist Church. He taught theology at Shaw College (now Rust College), a historically black college founded in 1866 in Holly Springs. Hiram Revels died on January 16, 1901, while attending a church conference in Aberdeen, Mississippi. Legacy[] Revels' daughter Susan Revels edited a newspaper in Seattle, Washington. Among his grandsons were Horace R. Cayton, Jr., co-author of Black Metropolis, and Revels Cayton, a labor leader.[10] In 2002, scholar Molefi Kete Asante listed Hiram Rhodes Revels as one of 100 Greatest African Americans.[11] Notes[] References[] - Citations - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 "Hiram Rhodes Revels", Robinson Library, 2011, accessed 10 October 2012 - ↑ U.S. Senate: Art & History Home > Photo Exhibit at www.senate.gov - ↑ “Chapter III”, The Facts of Reconstruction. Retrieved on 2012-11-01 at Project Gutenberg “Revels was comparatively a new man in the community. He had recently been stationed at Natchez as pastor in charge of the A.M.E. Church, and so far as known he had never voted, had never attended a political meeting, and of course, had never made a political speech. But he was a colored man, and presumed to be a Republican, and believed to be a man of ability and considerably above the average in point of intelligence; just the man, it was thought, the Rev. Noah Buchanan would be willing to vote for.” - ↑ "BROWN, Albert Gallatin - Biographical Information". U.S. Congress. http://bioguide.congress.gov/scripts/biodisplay.pl?index=b000900. Retrieved July 25, 2012. - ↑ 5.0 5.1 "The Colored Member Admitted to His Seat in the Senate", New York Times, 25 February 1870, accessed 10 October 2012 - ↑ 6.0 6.1 6.2 "First African American Senator". U.S. Senate. http://www.senate.gov/artandhistory/history/minute/First_African_American_Senator.htm. Retrieved July 25, 2012. - ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 Richard Primus, "The Riddle of Hiram Revels", 119 Harvard Law Review 1680 (2006) - ↑ Blaine, Twenty Years in Congress - ↑ full text in James Wilford Garner. Reconstruction in Mississippi (1901) pp. 399-400. - ↑ Foner, Eric. Freedom's Lawmakers: A Directory of Black Officeholders during Reconstruction. 1996. Revised. ISBN 0-8071-2082-0. p. 181. - ↑ Asante, Molefi Kete (2002). 100 Greatest African Americans: A Biographical Encyclopedia. Amherst, New York. Prometheus Books. ISBN 1-57392-963-8. - Primary source - Borome, Joseph A. "The Autobiography of Hiram Rhodes Revels Together with Some Letters by and about Him," Midwest Journal, 5 (Winter 1952-1953), pp. 79–92. - Lynch, John R. The Facts of Reconstruction (1913), Online at Project Gutenberg - Memoir by Mississippi Congressman (a freedman) who served during Reconstruction - Other references - Foner, Eric. Freedom's Lawmakers: A Directory of Black Officeholders during Reconstruction. 1996. Revised. ISBN 0-8071-2082-0. - Gravely, William B., "Hiram Revels Protests Racial Separation in the Methodist Episcopal Church (1876)," Methodist History, 8 (1970), pp. 13–20. - Harris, William C., The Day of the Carpetbagger: Republican Reconstruction in Mississippi, Louisiana State University Press, 1979 - Haskins, James, Distinguished African American Political and Governmental Leaders, Oryx Press. 1999. pp: 216-8. - Hildebrand, Reginald F., The Times Were Strange and Stirring: Methodist Preachers and the Crisis of Emancipation, Duke University Press, 1995 - Thompson, Julius E., Hiram Revels: A Biography (1973) (unpublished dissertation, Princeton University)[Clarification needed] - State Library of North Carolina - Biographical sketch at the U.S. Senate website - Portrait and biography, Harper's Weekly, 19 February 1870, p. 116 - "The Colored Member Admitted to His Seat in the Senate", New York Times, 25 February 1870 - "Hiram Revels pioneered southern Black politics". African American Registry. Media Business Solutions. Archived from the original on 2003-05-06. http://web.archive.org/web/20030506162754/http://www.aaregistry.com/african_american_history/1871/Hiram_Revels_pioneered_southern_Black_politics. Retrieved 2012-11-01. External links[] | Wikimedia Commons has media related to Hiram Revels. | - Hiram Rhodes Revels at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress - "Hiram Rhodes Revels". Find a Grave. http://www.findagrave.com/memorial/6125891. Retrieved 2008-11-05. The original article can be found at Hiram Rhodes Revels and the edit history here.


--- [Black History Month: Hiram Revels] ---
Black History Month: Hiram Revels His full name was Hiram Rhodes Revels. He was a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal Church, a college administrator and an United States Senator. Unlike many African-American men of his generation, he was born a free man in North Carolina. He moved to Ohio, where he was allowed to vote in elections before other African Americans were given the Constitutional right to do so. During the Civil War, Revels helped organize two regiments of the "United States Colored Troops" and served as their chaplain. He became the first African American to serve in Congress when he was elected to the United States Senate to represent Mississippi in 1870 and 1871 during the Reconstruction era. Revels was born in Fayetteville, North Carolina on September 27, 1827. His parents were what were known as "free people of color", having both African and European ancestry. Revels was taught by a local African American woman for his early education. In 1838 he went to live with his older brother , Elias B. Revels, in Lincolnton, North Carolina. There he apprenticed as a barber in his brother's barber shop. After Elias Revels died in 1841, he took over the shop. Revels left North Carolina to attended the Union County Quaker Seminary in Indiana, and Darke County Seminary in Ohio. In 1845 Revels was ordained as a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal Church. He worked as a preacher and religious teacher throughout a number of states, including Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Tennessee, Missouri, and Kansas. His preaching to other African Americans was not always well received in some of those states and in 1854 he was imprisoned in Missouri for preaching the gospel to African Americans. Remarkably, according to Revels himself he was never subjected to violence. While in Ohio he was even permitted to vote in elections. Revels pursued his religious studies at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois from 1855 to 1857. He became a minister in a Methodist Episcopal Church in Baltimore, Maryland, and he also served as a principal for a black high school. When war broke out in 1861, Revels served as a chaplain in the United States Army. He helped recruit and organize two Union regiments composed of African American solduers from Maryland and Missouri. He himself took part at the battle of Vicksburg in Mississippi. When the war ended in 1865, Revels left the African Methodist Episcopal Church and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church. He was assigned as a minister briefly to churches in Leavenworth, Kansas, and New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1866, he was appointed to be permanent pastor at a church in Natchez, Mississippi, where he settled with his wife and five daughters. He became an elder in the Mississippi District of the Methodist Church, and while he was there he founded schools for African American children. During Reconstruction in the south, a number of African Americans were elected to serve in positions in which it would have been unthinkable for them to do so prior to the Union victory. Revels was elected alderman in Natchez in 1868. In 1869 he was elected to represent Adams County in the Mississippi State Senate. Previously Revels had never attended a political meeting and had never made a political speech. Local Republicans presumed him to be a supporter of their party because of his race. Party leaders considered him to be very able and well respected in the community. In January 1870, Revels was selected to present the opening prayer in the Mississippi State Legislature. Congressman John Lynch described the prayer recited by Revels as "one of the most impressive and eloquent prayers that had ever been delivered in the [Mississippi] Senate Chamber". It elevated Revels' stature and made a profound impression on the other legislators. At the time, most state legislatures, including Mississippi, elected U.S. senators from the state. In 1870 Revels was elected by a vote of 81 to 15 in the Mississippi State Senate to finish the term of one of the state's two seats in the US Senate, which had been left vacant since the Civil War. Previously, the seat had been held by Albert G. Brown, who withdrew from the US Senate in 1861 when Mississippi seceded. When Revels arrived in Washington, D.C., southern Democrats opposed having him seated him in the Senate. Two days of debate over the issue followed, with Senate galleries packed with spectators for this historic event. Democrats based their opposition on the 1857 Dred Scott Decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that people of African ancestry were not and could not be citizens. They argued that no African American had been a citizen before the 14th Amendment was ratified in 1868, and therefore Revels could not satisfy the Senate's requirement of nine years' prior citizenship. Revels' supporters said that the Civil War, and the Reconstruction Amendments, had overturned Dred Scott. They said that the subordination of African-Americans was no longer part of the US constitutional regime. They said that it would be unconstitutional to bar Revels based on the pre-Civil War Constitution's racist citizenship rules. Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner said: "The time has passed for argument. Nothing more need be said. For a long time it has been clear that colored persons must be senators. All men are created equal, says the great Declaration, and now a great act attests this verity. Today we make the Declaration a reality. The Declaration was only half established by Independence. The greatest duty remained behind. In assuring the equal rights of all we complete the work.” On February 25, 1870, the Senate voted, on a party-line vote of 48 to 8, to seat Revels in the senate, with only Republicans voting in favor and only Democrats voting against. He became the first African American to be seated in the United States Senate. The entire gallery stood up as he was sworn in. As a Senator, Revels called for compromise and moderation in effecting reconstruction. But he strongly supported racial equality and sought to reassure his fellow senators about the capability of African Americans. He gave his maiden speech to the Senate on March 16, 1870, in which he argued for the reinstatement of the black legislators of the Georgia General Assembly, who had been illegally ousted by white Democratic Party representatives. Revels served on both the Committee of Education and Labor and the Committee on the District of Columbia. Much of the Senate's attention focused on Reconstruction issues. While Radical Republicans called for continued punishment of ex-Confederates, Revels disappointed the radicals when he argued for amnesty and a restoration of full citizenship of former Confederates, provided that they swore an oath of loyalty to the United States. Revels' term lasted one year, February 1870 to March 3, 1871. He spoke against an amendment proposed by Senator Allen G. Thurman (D-Ohio) to keep the schools of Washington, D.C., segregated. He nominated a young African American man to the United States Military Academy, but the young man was denied admission. Revels successfully took on the cause of black workers who had been barred by their color from working at the Washington Navy Yard. The northern press praised Revels for his ability as an orator. Revels supported bills for the investment in developing infrastructure in Mississippi, as well as the grant of lands and right of way to aid the construction of the New Orleans and Northeastern Railroad, and levees on the Mississippi river. He pressed for integration of schools in the District of Columbia. In 1871, after his term as U.S. Senator expired, Revels was appointed as the first president of Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College (now Alcorn State University), a college for African American students located in Claiborne County, Mississippi. He taught philosophy as well. In 1873, Revels took a leave of absence from Alcorn to serve as Mississippi's secretary of state ad interim. He was dismissed from Alcorn in 1874 when he campaigned against the reelection of Governor of Mississippi Adelbert Ames. He was reappointed in 1876 by the new Democratic administration and served until his retirement in 1882. On November 6, 1875, Revels wrote a letter to Republican President Ulysses S. Grant, one that was widely reprinted in the press, in which he denounced Governor Ames as a "carpetbagger" (a pejorative term for northerners who exploited the south after the war) for manipulating the African-American vote for personal benefit, and for keeping alive wartime hatreds. He wrote to Grant: "Since reconstruction, the masses of my people have been, as it were, enslaved in mind by unprincipled adventurers, who, caring nothing for country, were willing to stoop to anything no matter how infamous, to secure power to themselves, and perpetuate it. My people have been told by these schemers, when men have been placed on the ticket who were notoriously corrupt and dishonest, that they must vote for them; that the salvation of the party depended upon it; that the man who scratched a ticket was not a Republican. This is only one of the many means these unprincipled demagogues have devised to perpetuate the intellectual bondage of my people. The bitterness and hate created by the late civil strife has, in my opinion, been obliterated in this state, except perhaps in some localities, and would have long since been entirely obliterated, were it not for some unprincipled men who would keep alive the bitterness of the past, and inculcate a hatred between the races, in order that they may aggrandize themselves by office, and its emoluments, to control my people, the effect of which is to degrade them. Hiram Revels died on January 16, 1901, while attending a church conference in Aberdeen, Mississippi. He was buried at the Hillcrest Cemetery in Holly Springs, Mississippi. Revels was born in Fayetteville, North Carolina on September 27, 1827. His parents were what were known as "free people of color", having both African and European ancestry. Revels was taught by a local African American woman for his early education. In 1838 he went to live with his older brother , Elias B. Revels, in Lincolnton, North Carolina. There he apprenticed as a barber in his brother's barber shop. After Elias Revels died in 1841, he took over the shop. Revels left North Carolina to attended the Union County Quaker Seminary in Indiana, and Darke County Seminary in Ohio. In 1845 Revels was ordained as a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal Church. He worked as a preacher and religious teacher throughout a number of states, including Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Tennessee, Missouri, and Kansas. His preaching to other African Americans was not always well received in some of those states and in 1854 he was imprisoned in Missouri for preaching the gospel to African Americans. Remarkably, according to Revels himself he was never subjected to violence. While in Ohio he was even permitted to vote in elections. Revels pursued his religious studies at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois from 1855 to 1857. He became a minister in a Methodist Episcopal Church in Baltimore, Maryland, and he also served as a principal for a black high school. When war broke out in 1861, Revels served as a chaplain in the United States Army. He helped recruit and organize two Union regiments composed of African American solduers from Maryland and Missouri. He himself took part at the battle of Vicksburg in Mississippi. When the war ended in 1865, Revels left the African Methodist Episcopal Church and joined the Methodist Episcopal Church. He was assigned as a minister briefly to churches in Leavenworth, Kansas, and New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1866, he was appointed to be permanent pastor at a church in Natchez, Mississippi, where he settled with his wife and five daughters. He became an elder in the Mississippi District of the Methodist Church, and while he was there he founded schools for African American children. During Reconstruction in the south, a number of African Americans were elected to serve in positions in which it would have been unthinkable for them to do so prior to the Union victory. Revels was elected alderman in Natchez in 1868. In 1869 he was elected to represent Adams County in the Mississippi State Senate. Previously Revels had never attended a political meeting and had never made a political speech. Local Republicans presumed him to be a supporter of their party because of his race. Party leaders considered him to be very able and well respected in the community. In January 1870, Revels was selected to present the opening prayer in the Mississippi State Legislature. Congressman John Lynch described the prayer recited by Revels as "one of the most impressive and eloquent prayers that had ever been delivered in the [Mississippi] Senate Chamber". It elevated Revels' stature and made a profound impression on the other legislators. At the time, most state legislatures, including Mississippi, elected U.S. senators from the state. In 1870 Revels was elected by a vote of 81 to 15 in the Mississippi State Senate to finish the term of one of the state's two seats in the US Senate, which had been left vacant since the Civil War. Previously, the seat had been held by Albert G. Brown, who withdrew from the US Senate in 1861 when Mississippi seceded. When Revels arrived in Washington, D.C., southern Democrats opposed having him seated him in the Senate. Two days of debate over the issue followed, with Senate galleries packed with spectators for this historic event. Democrats based their opposition on the 1857 Dred Scott Decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that people of African ancestry were not and could not be citizens. They argued that no African American had been a citizen before the 14th Amendment was ratified in 1868, and therefore Revels could not satisfy the Senate's requirement of nine years' prior citizenship. Revels' supporters said that the Civil War, and the Reconstruction Amendments, had overturned Dred Scott. They said that the subordination of African-Americans was no longer part of the US constitutional regime. They said that it would be unconstitutional to bar Revels based on the pre-Civil War Constitution's racist citizenship rules. Massachusetts Senator Charles Sumner said: "The time has passed for argument. Nothing more need be said. For a long time it has been clear that colored persons must be senators. All men are created equal, says the great Declaration, and now a great act attests this verity. Today we make the Declaration a reality. The Declaration was only half established by Independence. The greatest duty remained behind. In assuring the equal rights of all we complete the work.” On February 25, 1870, the Senate voted, on a party-line vote of 48 to 8, to seat Revels in the senate, with only Republicans voting in favor and only Democrats voting against. He became the first African American to be seated in the United States Senate. The entire gallery stood up as he was sworn in. As a Senator, Revels called for compromise and moderation in effecting reconstruction. But he strongly supported racial equality and sought to reassure his fellow senators about the capability of African Americans. He gave his maiden speech to the Senate on March 16, 1870, in which he argued for the reinstatement of the black legislators of the Georgia General Assembly, who had been illegally ousted by white Democratic Party representatives. Revels served on both the Committee of Education and Labor and the Committee on the District of Columbia. Much of the Senate's attention focused on Reconstruction issues. While Radical Republicans called for continued punishment of ex-Confederates, Revels disappointed the radicals when he argued for amnesty and a restoration of full citizenship of former Confederates, provided that they swore an oath of loyalty to the United States. Revels' term lasted one year, February 1870 to March 3, 1871. He spoke against an amendment proposed by Senator Allen G. Thurman (D-Ohio) to keep the schools of Washington, D.C., segregated. He nominated a young African American man to the United States Military Academy, but the young man was denied admission. Revels successfully took on the cause of black workers who had been barred by their color from working at the Washington Navy Yard. The northern press praised Revels for his ability as an orator. Revels supported bills for the investment in developing infrastructure in Mississippi, as well as the grant of lands and right of way to aid the construction of the New Orleans and Northeastern Railroad, and levees on the Mississippi river. He pressed for integration of schools in the District of Columbia. In 1871, after his term as U.S. Senator expired, Revels was appointed as the first president of Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical College (now Alcorn State University), a college for African American students located in Claiborne County, Mississippi. He taught philosophy as well. In 1873, Revels took a leave of absence from Alcorn to serve as Mississippi's secretary of state ad interim. He was dismissed from Alcorn in 1874 when he campaigned against the reelection of Governor of Mississippi Adelbert Ames. He was reappointed in 1876 by the new Democratic administration and served until his retirement in 1882. On November 6, 1875, Revels wrote a letter to Republican President Ulysses S. Grant, one that was widely reprinted in the press, in which he denounced Governor Ames as a "carpetbagger" (a pejorative term for northerners who exploited the south after the war) for manipulating the African-American vote for personal benefit, and for keeping alive wartime hatreds. He wrote to Grant: "Since reconstruction, the masses of my people have been, as it were, enslaved in mind by unprincipled adventurers, who, caring nothing for country, were willing to stoop to anything no matter how infamous, to secure power to themselves, and perpetuate it. My people have been told by these schemers, when men have been placed on the ticket who were notoriously corrupt and dishonest, that they must vote for them; that the salvation of the party depended upon it; that the man who scratched a ticket was not a Republican. This is only one of the many means these unprincipled demagogues have devised to perpetuate the intellectual bondage of my people. The bitterness and hate created by the late civil strife has, in my opinion, been obliterated in this state, except perhaps in some localities, and would have long since been entirely obliterated, were it not for some unprincipled men who would keep alive the bitterness of the past, and inculcate a hatred between the races, in order that they may aggrandize themselves by office, and its emoluments, to control my people, the effect of which is to degrade them. Hiram Revels died on January 16, 1901, while attending a church conference in Aberdeen, Mississippi. He was buried at the Hillcrest Cemetery in Holly Springs, Mississippi.


--- [.: February 2014] ---
October 19th, 1915 Received by:James Padgett Washington D.C. I am General Grant. I was the President of your country and also the General of the Federal armies. Well, I want to say that I am in a condition of comparative happiness, but not entirely relieved from my darkness or sufferings. I had a great many sins to answer for and many penalties to pay, and during the years since my death I have suffered much and experienced great darkness. But thanks be to God, I am emerging from these conditions and am having my spiritual eyes opened to the truths of God and the necessity of obtaining His Love and Favor. As you may know, when on earth I attended the Methodist Church, but my religious knowledge was merely that which comes from an assent of the mind to certain propositions, or rather doctrines, of the church. I knew nothing of the soul development or of the Divine Love, or of any of those attributes of the Father which were necessary to my becoming a redeemed spirit and an accepted child of God. I am in the Second Sphere, where are many of my old comrades in arms, and many who were antagonistic in the great War of the Rebellion. But we are no longer enemies, for we have obtained sufficient Love to become friends, and to know that war and hatred and murder are not in accord with God's laws, or approved by Him; and we are now seeking only Love, and trying to apply the Golden Rule in our lives here. Well, I am somewhat surprised that I can communicate with you in this way, for while I have attended some séances and made my presence known in other ways and by other manifestations, I never before had the opportunity to do so by this method of writing; and I must say, it is the most satisfactory of my experiences. As this is my first appearance, and coming without an invitation, though some of your band which is here signified their assent, I do not feel that I should longer intrude. Well, I have been interested in this great and bloody war, and have visited the scenes of many battles and the headquarters of the officers of both sides, and have heard their plans discussed, and have learned what their expectations were. It is rather early in the game to form an opinion as to the outcome, but judging from the facts, as I have been able to gather them, and from the conditions of the armies and means of carrying on the war, of both sides, I am rather inclined to think the Allies will win. This I say in a perfectly unbiased way, as I have no bias or prejudice for either side. But this I do know: that no human being can at all estimate the great injury that will be done to the various countries or to the progress of the human race in the things material. But God rules, and the right will prevail, as I believe. Sometime later, if agreeable, I will write you further on this matter.I will now say good night. Received by:James Padgett Washington D.C. I am General Grant. I was the President of your country and also the General of the Federal armies. Well, I want to say that I am in a condition of comparative happiness, but not entirely relieved from my darkness or sufferings. I had a great many sins to answer for and many penalties to pay, and during the years since my death I have suffered much and experienced great darkness. But thanks be to God, I am emerging from these conditions and am having my spiritual eyes opened to the truths of God and the necessity of obtaining His Love and Favor. As you may know, when on earth I attended the Methodist Church, but my religious knowledge was merely that which comes from an assent of the mind to certain propositions, or rather doctrines, of the church. I knew nothing of the soul development or of the Divine Love, or of any of those attributes of the Father which were necessary to my becoming a redeemed spirit and an accepted child of God. I am in the Second Sphere, where are many of my old comrades in arms, and many who were antagonistic in the great War of the Rebellion. But we are no longer enemies, for we have obtained sufficient Love to become friends, and to know that war and hatred and murder are not in accord with God's laws, or approved by Him; and we are now seeking only Love, and trying to apply the Golden Rule in our lives here. Well, I am somewhat surprised that I can communicate with you in this way, for while I have attended some séances and made my presence known in other ways and by other manifestations, I never before had the opportunity to do so by this method of writing; and I must say, it is the most satisfactory of my experiences. As this is my first appearance, and coming without an invitation, though some of your band which is here signified their assent, I do not feel that I should longer intrude. Well, I have been interested in this great and bloody war, and have visited the scenes of many battles and the headquarters of the officers of both sides, and have heard their plans discussed, and have learned what their expectations were. It is rather early in the game to form an opinion as to the outcome, but judging from the facts, as I have been able to gather them, and from the conditions of the armies and means of carrying on the war, of both sides, I am rather inclined to think the Allies will win. This I say in a perfectly unbiased way, as I have no bias or prejudice for either side. But this I do know: that no human being can at all estimate the great injury that will be done to the various countries or to the progress of the human race in the things material. But God rules, and the right will prevail, as I believe. Sometime later, if agreeable, I will write you further on this matter.I will now say good night. Your friend, U. S. Grant
