=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dolly (sheep) - Wikipedia]
Dolly (sheep) ... Dolly (5 July 1996 – 14 February 2003) was a female Finn-Dorset sheep and the first mammal that was cloned from an adult somatic cell. She was cloned by associates of the Roslin Institute in Scotland, using the process of nuclear transfer from a cell taken from a mammary gland (somatic cell nuclear transfer). [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolly_(sheep)

[Dolly | History, Impact & Legacy | Britannica]
Feb 18, 2026 · Dolly, a female Finn Dorset sheep that lived from 1996 to 2003, was the first clone of an adult mammal. Dolly was produced by British developmental biologist Ian Wilmut and colleagues of the Roslin Institute, near Edinburgh, Scotland.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/topic/Dolly-cloned-sheep

[The Life of Dolly | The Roslin Institute | The Royal (Dick) School of ...]
Dolly spent her life at the Roslin Institute and, apart from the occasional media appearance, led a normal existence with the other sheep at the Institute. Over the years, Dolly had a total of six lambs with a Welsh Mountain ram called David.
URL: https://vet.ed.ac.uk/roslin/about/history/dolly/facts/life-of-dolly

[The Story of Dolly | Ask A Biologist - Arizona State University]
Jun 5, 2012 · The Story of Dolly Dolly is the name of a sheep that has the honor of being the first mammal to be cloned by a group of scientists in Scotland. Dolly was born July 5th, 1996 and she passed away in 2003. She lived for 6 and a half years, as a normal, active ewe. She was not that normal though, she was a clone after all. There are several breeds of sheep in the world. The sheep we focus on here ...
URL: https://askabiologist.asu.edu/content/story-dolly

[The story of Dolly the sheep - National Museums Scotland]
Dolly the sheep was the first cloned mammal ever to be created from an adult cell. Affectionately named after country music legend Dolly Parton, Dolly caused excitement and controversy among both scientists and the public. Why is Dolly important? Dolly was a part of the Roslin Institute's research into producing genetically modified farm animals or livestock. Its work was focused on ...
URL: https://www.nms.ac.uk/discover-catalogue/the-story-of-dolly-the-sheep


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dolly (sheep) - Wikipedia] ---
Dolly (5 July 1996 – 14 February 2003) was a female Finn-Dorset sheep and the first mammal that was cloned from an adult somatic cell. She was cloned by associates of the Roslin Institute in Scotland, using the process of nuclear transfer from a cell taken from a mammary gland (somatic cell nuclear transfer). Her cloning  proved that a cloned organism could be produced from a mature cell from a specific body part. Contrary to popular belief, she was not the first animal to be cloned.
The employment of adult somatic cells instead of embryonic stem cells for cloning emerged from the foundational work of John Gurdon, who cloned African clawed frogs in 1958 with this approach. The successful cloning of Dolly led to widespread advancements within stem cell research, including the discovery of induced pluripotent stem cells.
Dolly lived at the Roslin Institute throughout her life and produced several lambs. She was euthanized at the age of six years due to a progressive lung disease. No cause that linked the disease to her cloning was found.
Dolly's body was preserved and donated by the Roslin Institute in Scotland to the National Museum of Scotland, where it has been regularly exhibited since 2003.


--- [Dolly | History, Impact & Legacy | Britannica] ---
Dolly - Who was Dolly the sheep? - Why is Dolly the sheep famous? - What does it mean that Dolly was a cloned sheep? - How was Dolly the sheep cloned? - What scientific technique was used to create Dolly? - Why was the cloning of Dolly considered important for science and medicine? Dolly, female Finn Dorset sheep that lived from 1996 to 2003, the first clone of an adult mammal, produced by British developmental biologist Ian Wilmut and colleagues of the Roslin Institute, near Edinburgh, Scotland. The announcement in February 1997 of Dolly’s birth marked a milestone in science, dispelling decades of presumption that adult mammals could not be cloned and igniting a debate concerning the many possible uses and misuses of mammalian cloning technology. The concept of mammalian clones, even humans, was not new at the time of Dolly’s birth. Among mammals, naturally occurring genetic clones, or individuals genetically identical to one another, had long been recognized in the form of monozygotic (identical) twins. Unlike Dolly, however, such clones are derived from a single zygote, or fertilized egg, and thus they are clones of one another, rather than clones of another individual. Moreover, clones had been generated previously in the laboratory, but only from embryonic cells that were either undifferentiated or only partially differentiated. In animals, the production of clones from fully differentiated (adult) cells (e.g., skin or muscle cells) had been carried out successfully only in lower species, such as frogs. For decades, scientists had tried and failed to clone mammals from existing adults. The repeated failures led scientists to speculate about the significance of the timing and process of cell differentiation in the developing mammalian embryo. Of particular interest were changes that occurred to DNA during an animal’s development, whereby patterns in gene expression were altered as cells became increasingly specialized in function. It was realized that, through the process of differentiation, adult mammalian cells lose totipotency—the ability to become any of the different cell types required for making a complete and viable animal. It was presumed that the process was irreversible. The successful production of Dolly, however, proved otherwise. Dolly was cloned from a mammary gland cell taken from an adult Finn Dorset ewe. Wilmut and his team of researchers at Roslin created her by using electrical pulses to fuse the mammary cell with an unfertilized egg cell, the nucleus of which had been removed. The fusion process resulted in the transfer of the mammary cell nucleus into the egg cell, which then began to divide. In order for the mammary cell nucleus to be accepted and functional within the host egg, the cell first had to be induced to abandon the normal cycle of growth and division and enter a quiescent stage. To accomplish that, researchers deliberately withheld nutrients from the cells. The importance of the step had been determined experimentally, though an explanation for its necessity was lacking. Nevertheless, starting with a collection of mammary cell nuclei and host egg cytoplasms derived from Scottish Blackface ewes, a number of fused couplets successfully formed embryos. The reconstructed embryos were transferred to surrogate Scottish Blackface ewes. Of 13 recipient ewes, one became pregnant, and 148 days later, which is essentially normal gestation for a sheep, Dolly was born. Dolly remained alive and well long after her birth, with a functional heart, liver, brain, and other organs, all derived genetically from the nuclear DNA of an adult mammary gland cell. The technique used to produce her later became known as somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). SCNT has since been used to generate a wide variety of mammalian clones, from different types of adult cells; its success in producing clones of primates, however, has been notably limited. On February 14, 2003, Dolly was euthanized by veterinarians after being found to suffer from progressive lung disease. Her body was preserved and displayed at the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh.


--- [The Life of Dolly | The Roslin Institute | The Royal (Dick) School of ...] ---
The story of Dolly the sheep, from start to finish. Making DollyDolly was created as a result of an experiment at the Roslin Institute. The experiment formed part of a study that aimed to improve methods of producing genetically modified livestock. If successful, the study would mean fewer animals would need to be used in this area of work.Scientists at Roslin also wanted to learn more about how cells change during development and whether a specialised cell, such as a skin or brain cell, could be used to make a whole new animal.These experiments were carried out at the Roslin Institute and PPL Therapeutics by a team led by Professor Sir Ian Wilmut. Owing to the nature of the research, the team was made up of people with a range of skillsets, including scientists, embryologists, surgeons, vets and farm staff.Dolly was cloned from a cell taken from the mammary gland of a six-year-old Finn Dorset sheep and an egg cell taken from a Scottish Blackface sheep. She was born to her Scottish Blackface surrogate mother on 5 July 1996.Dolly’s white face was one of the first signs that she was a clone because if she had been genetically related to her surrogate mother, she would have had a black face.Dolly was named after the country music singer Dolly Parton. Dolly and her surrogate mother Why was Dolly so important?Dolly was the first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell. Her birth proved that specialised cells could be used to create an exact copy of the animal they came from.This knowledge changed what scientists thought was possible and opened up a lot of possibilities in biology and medicine, including the development of personalised stem cells, known as iPS cells. Dolly meets the world’s media. However, Dolly was not the first ever cloned mammal. That honour belongs to another sheep which was cloned from an embryo cell and born in 1984 in Cambridge, UK.Two other sheep, Megan and Morag, had also been cloned from embryonic cells grown in the lab at the Roslin Institute in 1995 and a further six sheep, cloned from embryonic and foetal cells, were born at Roslin at the same time as Dolly.What made Dolly so special was that she had been made from an adult cell, which no-one at the time thought was possible. Dolly’s lifeDolly was announced to the world on 22 February 1997, to a frenzy of media attention.The Roslin team chose to make the announcement at this time to coincide with the publication of the scientific paper which describes the experiments that produced her.Dolly captured the public’s imagination – no small feat for a sheep – and sparked a public debate about the possible benefits and dangers of cloning.In the week following the announcement, the Roslin Institute received 3,000 phone calls from around the world. Dolly and Bonnie When Dolly was a year old, analysis of her DNA showed that her telomeres - caps on the ends of DNA molecules that protect them from damage - were shorter than would be expected for a normal sheep of the same age.As an animal or person ages, their telomeres become progressively shorter, exposing the DNA to more damage.It was thought that, because Dolly's DNA came from an adult sheep, her telomeres had not been fully renewed during her development. This could have meant that Dolly was biologically older than her actual age.However, extensive health screens on Dolly at the time did not find any conditions which could be directly related to premature or accelerated ageing.Dolly spent her life at the Roslin Institute and, apart from the occasional media appearance, led a normal existence with the other sheep at the Institute.Over the years, Dolly had a total of six lambs with a Welsh Mountain ram called David. Their first lamb, Bonnie, was born in April 1998.In 2001, Dolly was diagnosed with arthritis after farm staff noticed her walking stiffly. This was successfully treated with anti-inflammatory medication, although the cause of the arthritis was never discovered.After Dolly gave birth to her last lambs in September 2000, it was discovered that she had become infected by a virus called Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus (JSRV), which causes lung cancer in sheep. Other sheep at the Roslin Institute had also been infected with JSRV in the same outbreak.Dolly continued to have a normal quality of life until February 2003, when she developed a cough. A CT scan showed tumours growing in her lungs and the decision was made to euthanise Dolly rather than risk her suffering. Dolly was put to sleep on 14 February 2003, at the age of six. Where is Dolly now?After her death the Roslin Institute donated Dolly’s body to the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh, where she has become one of the museum’s most popular exhibits. LinksScientific publication about cloning DollyCloning FAQsDolly memoriesNational Museum of Scotland websiteNational Museums Scotland blog post – ‘Goodbye Dolly’Dolly meets the media Image copyright: Murdo Macleod This article was published on 2024-09-02


--- [The Story of Dolly | Ask A Biologist - Arizona State University] ---
The Story of Dolly Dolly is the name of a sheep that has the honor of being the first mammal to be cloned by a group of scientists in Scotland. Dolly was born July 5th, 1996 and she passed away in 2003. She lived for 6 and a half years, as a normal, active ewe. She was not that normal though, she was a clone after all. There are several breeds of sheep in the world. The sheep we focus on here are easy to remember though. One breed of sheep is the Scottish Blackface and the other is a Finn Dorset. What is easy about those names is that the Blackface actually has a black face. The Finn Dorset is all white. You know that the genetic material in our cells determines how we look on the outside. The black face of the Blackface sheep is determined by its genetic material, which means you can check to see who has that genetic material by just looking at their face! Very easy! How Dolly Was Made In Dolly's case, the nucleus of an egg from a black faced sheep was removed. The nucleus from a white faced sheep was inserted into that egg. Now, they had just one cell with the nucleus of a white faced sheep, but the rest of the cell containing items from a black faced sheep. That cell was placed into the black faced sheep who's egg it started out as. The cell eventually grew up and made Dolly. When Dolly was born, her face was white! Black faced sheep never have white faced sheep. Dolly's face being white was good proof that the experiment was successful, but scientists double checked Dolly's genetic material. They found that Dolly did have the exact same genetic material as the white faced sheep that donated the nucleus. Dolly did not have any genetic material from the black faced sheep who was her mother. The story was first published as a short report in a scientific journal called Nature, Volume 385, 1997, pages 810-812. Since that time, attempts at cloning at least 10 species of mammals have been made. Only seven attempts have been successful; cows, sheep, goats, mice, pigs, cats, and rabbits. The rate of success is very low. Several questions are brought up by Dolly's life and death. Scientists were interested to see if she aged faster because the genetic material was older than that from a fertilized egg. It was thought that she was aging faster, but no one could be sure. Dolly's cells looked a little older in a region in the genetic material, but is that enough to cause premature aging? Dolly got arthritis, a disease that mainly affects older individuals, but again, no one could be sure if it was because she was a clone. Some animals get arthritis early in life. Dolly even gave birth to a daughter, who was completely normal in all ways. Dolly led an active, healthy, sheep life until she passed away. Dolly got severely sick with a lung infection that affects many sheep. Scientists decided to put her down, euthanize her, to end her suffering. Dolly passed away when she was six and a half years old. That is half the average lifespan for a Finn Dorset sheep. She is now stuffed and on display in Edinborough, Scotland. We learned a lot from Dolly while she was alive and when she had passed away, but she might have left many more questions than answers. Image of Iam Wilmut feeding his cloned sheep Dolly from http://dnabiob.wikispaces.com/Ian+Wilmut accessed June 5, 2012. Read more about: Cloning Ewe Bibliographic details: - Article: The Story of Dolly - Author(s): Dr. Biology - Publisher: Arizona State University School of Life Sciences Ask A Biologist - Site name: ASU - Ask A Biologist - Date published: - Date accessed: - Link: https://askabiologist.asu.edu/content/story-dolly APA Style Dr. Biology. (). The Story of Dolly. ASU - Ask A Biologist. Retrieved from https://askabiologist.asu.edu/content/story-dolly Chicago Manual of Style Dr. Biology. "The Story of Dolly". ASU - Ask A Biologist. . https://askabiologist.asu.edu/content/story-dolly Dr. Biology. "The Story of Dolly". ASU - Ask A Biologist. . ASU - Ask A Biologist, Web. https://askabiologist.asu.edu/content/story-dolly MLA 2017 Style Dolly the sheep on display at the National Museum of Scotland. Image by Toni Barros via Wikimedia Commons. Be Part of Ask A Biologist By volunteering, or simply sending us feedback on the site. Scientists, teachers, writers, illustrators, and translators are all important to the program. If you are interested in helping with the website we have a Volunteers page to get the process started.


--- [The story of Dolly the sheep - National Museums Scotland] ---
The story of Dolly the sheep News Story Dolly the sheep was the first cloned mammal ever to be created from an adult cell. Affectionately named after country music legend Dolly Parton, Dolly caused excitement and controversy among both scientists and the public. Why is Dolly important? Dolly was a part of the Roslin Institute’s research into producing genetically modified farm animals or livestock. Its work was focused on introducing new genes into livestock so they display a new trait which can then be passed on to their offspring. Cloning was the next step in its research. Dolly was the first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell. Before Dolly was born, this was thought to be impossible. Scientists believed that specialised adult cells, those that had a certain job (like a skin cell or a liver cell), only held the information to do that job. Dolly was grown from a single mammary cell which contained all the information to create a whole new sheep. Dolly’s life Dolly started her life as a single cell in a test tube. The nucleus was taken from a cell from the mammary gland of a Finn Dorset sheep and put into an empty egg cell from a Scottish Blackface Sheep. Once normal development was confirmed in a lab at six days, the embryo was transferred into a surrogate mother. Dolly was born on 5 July 1996. The birth of Dolly was kept under wraps until the Roslin Institute published its research paper. Her birth was announced on 22 February 1997, and the world’s press descended on Roslin to meet the now famous sheep. Her sudden apperance sparked a media frenzy and debate around the ethics of cloning ensued. Dolly spent her whole life living in a flock of sheep at the Roslin Institute. She had six lambs with a Welsh Mountain sheep named David. Their first lamb, Bonny, was born in the spring of 1998. Twins, Sally and Rosie, followed the next year and triplets, Lucy, Darcy, and Cotton, the year after that. Image gallery Illness and legacy In the autumn of 2001, Dolly was walking stiffly. X-rays confirmed that she had arthritis. It fuelled the suspicion that cloned animals were destined to age prematurely. The cause of the arthritis was never established. But daily anti-inflammatory treatment resolved the clinical signs within a few months. Although her arthritis was a concern for the animal carers at Roslin, a much more serious problem was feared. In January 2000, a cloned sheep called Cedric died. The post mortem revealed that Cedric had died of sheep pulmonary adenomatosis (SPA). This disease is caused by a virus that induces tumours to grow in the lungs of affected animals and is incurable. Dolly remained healthy until Monday 10 February 2003, when an animal care worker reported that he had noted her coughing. Full veterinary examinations and blood tests were conducted but failed to establish a diagnosis. A CT scan was carried out on 14 February 2003. The scan confirmed the team's worst fears: tumours were growing in Dolly's chest. Since a general anaesthetic had been necessary to perform the CT scan, it was decided that it would be best if Dolly did not regain consciousness and she was put to sleep at the age of six. Dolly was donated to National Museums Scotland by the Roslin Institute. She has been on display at the National Museum of Scotland since 2003. Much like her namesake, Dolly captured the public imagination. Her inception changed what scientists thought was possible and opened up new possibilities in medicine and biology. Dolly is currently on display in the Science and Technology galleries at the National Museum of Scotland.
