=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) - Wikipedia]
Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) (SJP (R)) was an Indian political party founded by Chandra Shekhar, who served as prime minister of the country from 1990 to 1991. He led the party until his death on 8 July 2007. At the time of his death, he was the party's sole member of the Lok Sabha. The party was formed on 5 November 1990 when Shekhar and Devi Lal broke away from the governing Janata Dal ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samajwadi_Janata_Party_(Rashtriya)

[Samajwadi Janata Party - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
The Samajwadi Janata Party, out of which SJP (R) evolved, was formed on November 5 1990 when Chandra Shekhar and Devi Lal broke away from Janata Dal. In total the party was able to gather 60 MPs and form a government which lasted for four months.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/694201

[Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) - Detailed Pedia]
Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) (SJP (R)) was an Indian political party founded by Chandra Shekhar, who served as prime minister of the country from 1990 to 1991. He led the party until his death on 8 July 2007. At the time of his death, he was the party's sole member of the Lok Sabha.
URL: https://www.detailedpedia.com/wiki-Samajwadi_Janata_Party_(Rashtriya)

[Party Constitution - Samajwadi Janta Party ChandraShekhar]
May 8, 2017 · The party was formed on November 5, 1990 when Chandra Shekhar and Devi Lal broke away from Janata Dal. The party was able to gather 60 MPs and form a government which lasted for seven months.
URL: https://www.sjpchandrashekhar.org.in/party-constitution/

[Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) - Wikiwand]
Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) (SJP (R)) was an Indian political party founded by Chandra Shekhar, who served as prime minister of the country from 1990 to 1991. He led the party until his death on 8 July 2007. At the time of his death, he was the party's sole member of the Lok Sabha.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Samajwadi_Janata_Party


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) - Wikipedia] ---
Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) (SJP(R)) was an Indian political party founded by Chandra Shekhar, who served as prime minister of the country from 1990 to 1991. He led the party until his death on 8 July 2007. At the time of his death, he was the party's sole member of the Lok Sabha. 
The party was formed on 5 November 1990 when Shekhar and Devi Lal broke away from the governing Janata Dal. The party was able to gather 60 MPs and form a government, supported by the Indian National Congress (Indira) with Shekhar as prime minister. The SJP(R) government lasted for seven months, from 10 November 1990 to 21 June 1991. Shekhar's government collapsed when the INC(I) withdrew support.
S. R. Bommai was the president of Karnataka state unit till the state party got merged with Janata Dal in 1993 before 1994 Karnataka Assembly elections.
As of 2012 Kamal Morarka, a former cabinet minister in the union government headed by Chandra Shekhar, was the head of the party. The party headquarters were located in Narendra Niketan, ITO Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi, India.




--- [Samajwadi Janata Party - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
Samajwadi Janata Dal Democratic — is a political party in India. It is registered with the Election Commission of India, but still unrecognized.References [http://eci.gov.in/May2006/parties/regd/index.htm Election Commission of India] … Wikipedia Organisation of the Bharatiya Janata Party — This article is part of a series about Bharatiya Janata Party … Wikipedia Janata — Janata, is a Hindi word for the populace; or the people . Following the first Janata coalition in the 1970s between the Lok Dal, the Congress (O) and the Socialist Party, it has become part of the name of a number of federal and state level,… … Wikipedia Nepal Samajwadi Janata Dal — Nepal This article is part of the series: Politics and government of Nepal Government … Wikipedia Janata Dal — is an Indian political party which was formed through the merger of one of the major Janata Party factions, the Lok Dal and a group of Congressmen led by V.P. Singh. Ascent to powerIt first came to power in 1989, after allegations of corruption,… … Wikipedia Janata Dal (S) — Janata Dal Le Janata Dal est un parti politique indien. Ses dirigeants le voient comme un parti national mais il ne représente une force significative que dans les États du Karnataka et du Bihar. Il préconise une idéologie laïque et socialiste et … Wikipédia en Français Janata Dal (Secular) — Janata Dal Le Janata Dal est un parti politique indien. Ses dirigeants le voient comme un parti national mais il ne représente une force significative que dans les États du Karnataka et du Bihar. Il préconise une idéologie laïque et socialiste et … Wikipédia en Français Samajwadi Party — Die Samajwadi Party ist eine politische Partei in Indien. Die Samajwadi Party (SP) ist eine der zahlreichen Nachfolgeorganisationen der beiden einstigen Sozialistischen Parteien, die 1977 mehrheitlich im Experiment Janata Party, die kurzzeitig… … Deutsch Wikipedia Janata Dal — Le Janata Dal est un parti politique indien. Ses dirigeants le voient comme un parti national mais il ne représente une force significative que dans les États du Karnataka et du Bihar. Il préconise une idéologie laïque et socialiste et tire… … Wikipédia en Français Rashtriya Janata Dal — RJD redirects here. For the heavy metal singer, see Ronnie James Dio. Rashtriya Janata Dal Chairperson Lalu Prasad Yadav … Wikipedia


--- [Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) - Detailed Pedia] ---
No content


--- [Party Constitution - Samajwadi Janta Party ChandraShekhar] ---
Party Constitution Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) (SJP) is an Indian political party founded by Chandra Shekhar, 8th Prime Minister of India in 1990–91, and led by him until his death on July 8, 2007. Chandra Shekhar was the sole Lok Sabha MP of the party at the time of his death. The party was formed on November 5, 1990 when Chandra Shekhar and Devi Lal broke away from Janata Dal. The party was able to gather 60 MPs and form a government which lasted for seven months. H. D. Deve Gowda was one of the MPs that joined SJP(R). As of 2012 Kamal Morarka, a former cabinet minister in the union government headed by Chandra Shekhar was the head of the party. The party headquarters were located in Narendra Niketan, ITO Indraprastha Estate, New Delhi, India. On 14 April 2015, Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya), Janata Dal (United), Janata Dal (Secular), Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Indian National Lok Dal, and Samajwadi Party, announced that they would merge into a new national alliance, Janata Parivar in order to oppose the Bharatiya Janata Party.


--- [Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
