=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Alex Michel | Bachelor Nation Wiki | Fandom]
After college, he worked in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. He later became a documentary travel video producer, which took him to Australia, Brazil, China, Fiji, India, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Venezuela among others.
URL: https://bachelor-nation.fandom.com/wiki/Alex_Michel

[Where Are They Now: Harvard University/The Bachelor Alumnus ...]
Jan 6, 2021 · After college, he worked in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. He later became a documentary travel video producer, which took him to Australia, Brazil, China, Fiji, India, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, New Zealand and Venezuela among others.
URL: https://collegiatewaterpolo.org/where-are-they-now-harvard-university-the-bachelor-alumnus-alex-michel/

[How to Pronounce "U" and "Ü" in Spanish | SpanishDictionary.com]
The Sound of the Letter U How to Pronounce U in Spanish The letter u represents the Spanish vowel sound, or phoneme, /u/. Vowel sounds are made with your mouth open and not blocked by your tongue in any way. To properly pronounce the vowel u in Spanish, your lips should be rounded, pushing forward, and barely open.
URL: https://www.spanishdict.com/guide/how-to-pronounce-u-and-in-spanish

[“U” with an Accent | SpanishDictionary.com]
Learn how to write the letter "u" with an accent and when to use the letter "u" with an accent in Spanish in this article!
URL: https://www.spanishdict.com/guide/u-with-an-accent

[Alex Michel - Academic Kids]
After college he worked in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. He later worked creating documentary travel videos which took him to many exotic locations, including Australia, Brazil, China, Fiji, India, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Venezuela among others.
URL: https://academickids.com/encyclopedia/index.php/Alex_Michel


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Alex Michel | Bachelor Nation Wiki | Fandom] ---
Alexander Mattheus "Alex" Michel was the bachelor on the first season of Bachelor. Biography[] Retrieved from wikipedia.com Michel was born in Charlottesville, Virginia, the son of a corporate executive and a marriage and family therapist. He has two younger sisters. In high school, Michel was the valedictorian, student body president, homecoming king, and captain of the swim team. He graduated with honors from Harvard College, majoring in History and Literature, and was a member of the varsity swimming and water polo teams. During college he spent a summer working as an analyst in the Office of Management and Budget in the Executive Office of the President of the United States. After college, he worked in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. He later became a documentary travel video producer, which took him to Australia, Brazil, China, Fiji, India, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Venezuela among others. He speaks Spanish and some Portuguese. He later returned to school and earned an MBA at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business in 1998. He worked at CNET as a television producer, and at the Boston Consulting Group as a management consultant. He was named the Sundance Institute New Producing Fellow for 1993. At the age of 31, a friend at Harvard Business School sent Michel an email about auditions for a new reality show in which a bachelor chooses a wife out of 24 female contestants. After seven weeks filming The Bachelor, he chose Amanda Marsh over runner-up Trista Rehn, but did not propose to her. After dating Marsh for a year, the couple broke up. After the airing of The Bachelor, Michel returned to the business world and did a variety of media projects. He became a spokesperson for Match.com, guest-starred on The Re-Run Show, and became a spokesperson for Princess Cruises. He is currently a media industry executive in New York City. Amanda Marsh told US exclusively in July 2020 that Alex is married with kids .


--- [Where Are They Now: Harvard University/The Bachelor Alumnus ...] ---
BRIDGEPORT, Pa. — Former Harvard University water polo athlete Alex Michel ’92 holds arguably one of the most unique positions in pop culture – he was “The Bachelor”. Not one of the litany of individuals who have graced the American Broadcasting Company show since its launch in March 25, 2002. He was the original “The Bachelor” during a six episode first season of the program which concluded on April 22, 2002. Born in Charlottesville, Virginia, Michel was the valedictorian, student body president, homecoming king, and captain of the swim team at Darien High School in Connecticut. He graduated with honors from Harvard , majoring in History and Literature, and was a member of the varsity swimming and water polo teams. During college, he spent a summer working as an analyst in the Office of Management and Budget in the Executive Office of the President of the United States. After college, he worked in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. He later became a documentary travel video producer, which took him to Australia, Brazil, China, Fiji, India, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, New Zealand and Venezuela among others. Michel later returned to school and earned a Masters of Business Administration (MBA) at Stanford University’s Graduate School of Business in 1998. He worked at CNET as a television producer from May 1995-to-May 1996, and at the Boston Consulting Group as a management consultant from July 1998-to-June 2002. He was named the Sundance Institute New Producing Fellow for 1993. At the age of 31, a friend at Harvard Business School sent Michel an email about auditions for a new reality show in which a bachelor chooses a wife out of 24 female contestants. After seven weeks filming The Bachelor, he chose Amanda Marsh (now Amanda Caldwell) over runner-up Trista Rehn, but did not propose to her. After the airing of The Bachelor, Michel returned to the business world as Vice President at Bernstein Global Wealth Management and with Rapt Technologies and Microsoft. A prior spokesman for Match.com and Princess Cruises, he is currently a media/technology executive in Washington, D.C. following co-founding NewCo in March 2012 and serving as Managing Director of Generation Consulting in January 2016.


--- [How to Pronounce "U" and "Ü" in Spanish | SpanishDictionary.com] ---
Explanation The letter uin Spanish is pronounced like the letter group oo in moon or the letter u in June, but much shorter than in English and with rounded lips pushing forward. Compare the sound of oo and u in moon and June with the sound of u in their Spanish translations, lunaand junio. The letter u sometimes appears with two dots on top. That sign is called umlaut in English, or diéresisin Spanish. It means that the letter is actually pronounced as the vowel /u/ in spite of being part of the letter groups gue or gui, for example in the words cigüeña(stork) and lingüista(linguist). Written Vowels vs. Vowel Sounds In Spanish, each written vowel corresponds to a single vowel sound called a phoneme (fonema). There are five vowels in Spanish: a, e, i, o, and u. Although y is considered a consonant, it has the same sound as i in certain words and positions, such as hoy(today). Remember that the h is almost always silent in Spanish, so it does not make any sound in the word hoy above. The Sound of the Letter U How to Pronounce U in Spanish The letter u represents the Spanish vowel sound, or phoneme, /u/. Vowel sounds are made with your mouth open and not blocked by your tongue in any way. To properly pronounce the vowel u in Spanish, your lips should be rounded, pushing forward, and barely open. The back of your tongue should be close to your soft palate. Check it out in these words: uña(nail), Ucrania(Ukraine), vuelo(flight), cuna(cradle), and espíritu(spirit). Is the Spanish U Similar to the English U? Sometimes it is. It’s similar to the English u that can be heard in words like tube or flute, whose translations have the Spanish u sound too: tuboand flauta. However, remember that the Spanish u is much shorter in duration. Let’s look at some examples of words containing the letter u, whether the letter is stressed or unstressed, in different word positions and letter combinations. The Sound of the Letter Ü You might have noticed that the letter u sometimes appears with two dots on top. That sign is called umlaut in English, or diéresisin Spanish. It means that the letter is actually pronounced as the vowel /u/ in spite of being part of the letter groups gue or gui, for example in the words lingüística(linguistics) and pingüino(penguin). Let’s look at some examples of words containing the letter ü and what vowel the ü is combined with, either e or i. Now let's take a look at some sentences that contain u and ü in Spanish! Want to learn more about Spanish pronunciation? Check out the following articles! • How to Pronounce the Letter "U" in Spanish • SPA, IPA, and ABC Pronunciation


--- [“U” with an Accent | SpanishDictionary.com] ---
“U” with an Accent The letter u with a tilde serves a variety of purposes in Spanish, such as marking word stress and distinguishing between types of words. Ú and Word Stress A written accent placed over a letter primarily serves as a pronunciation marker. It indicates which syllable to stress. In words like crepúsculo(twilight), the accent is necessary because it tells us to pronounce the first u with greater emphasis. Let’s take a look at the various types of words that use an u with a tilde: Diphthongs and Hiatus A diptongo(diphthong) is any combination of two vowels pronounced as one syllable, for example a strong + weak or weak + weak vowel combination, as in lengua(language), canción(song), or cuidar(to care for). On the other hand, when a sequence of vowels is pronounced as two syllables in Spanish, that sequence is called an hiato(hiatus). A hiatus may be formed by a combination of an unstressed open vowel (a, e, o) + a stressed closed vowel (i, u), as in reír(to laugh), oír(to hear), and transeúnte(passerby), or a combination of a stressed closed vowel + unstressed open vowel, as in María(Mary) and frío(cold). The reason that Raúland baúlhave a tilde over the u is that they contain an unstressed open vowel followed by a stressed closed vowel—that is, a hiatus—and hiatus carry a tilde no matter what! Ú and Word Types A tilde over a vowel may mark the difference between certain possessive adjectives and subject pronouns. The following examples demonstrate that when a tilde is added, the possessive adjective tu(your) changes to the subject pronoun tú(you). | examples | |---| Writing/Typing an Accent Over the U The tilde over the u is written as a short diagonal line, from the top right to the bottom left. To type ú on your keyboard, you can copy and paste ú, use the character code Alt + 0250, or learn the keyboard shortcuts on your Mac or PC. Take a look at how to type ú on your Mac or PC! On a PC There are several keyboard shortcuts you can use for Spanish letters and punctuation on your PC. Please note that these shortcuts sometimes only work on newer computers and may only work in Microsoft Office. If you’re using Office for Windows, use the following shortcut: - For an ú, press Ctrl + ', then the u. On a Mac To get the ú on a Mac, hold down the Option/Alt key (⌥), and press the e key. Then, release both keys and press the u key. If you write in Spanish often, we recommend going into your settings and adding the US International keyboard. This keyboard layout supports all major Western European languages, and it uses the right Alt key as a modifier for special characters. Would you like to learn more about accents and word stress in Spanish? Check out these articles!


--- [Alex Michel - Academic Kids] ---
Alex Michel | | Alex Michel (born August 10, 1971) is an American businessman, producer, and television personality, best known for the role in The Bachelor. Alex was born in Charlottesville, Virginia, but has lived all over the U.S. He has a close knit family including his father, a corporate executive, his mother, a marriage and family therapist, and two younger sisters. In high school Alex was valedictorian, student body president, homecoming king and captain of a state championship swim team his senior year of high school. He graduated with honors from Harvard University, majoring in History and Literature, and was a member of the varsity swimming and water polo teams. During college he spent a summer working as an analyst in the Office of Management and Budget in the Executive Office of the President of the United States. Travel and adventure have always been a part of Alex's life. After college he worked in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. He later worked creating documentary travel videos which took him to many exotic locations, including Australia, Brazil, China, Fiji, India, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, New Zealand, and Venezuela among others. He speaks Spanish fluently and even speaks a little Portuguese. Prior to earning an MBA at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business in 1998, Alex worked at a successful Internet company. Most recently he has worked as a management consultant to several major corporations, collaborating with CEO-level executives to develop, communicate, and implement breakthrough business strategies for entertainment, media, and technology companies. Previously, Michel produced national television shows about the Internet for CNET, a publicly traded new media company. He also produced and directed travel documentaries, working in over 20 countries around the world. He was named the Sundance Institute New Producing Fellow for 1993. After the airing of The Bachelor, Alex did a variety of media projects. He became a spokesperson for Match.com, guest starred on "The Re-Run Show", and starred and excutive produced a short movie called "Our Very First Sex Tape". Now, Alex has been putting his MBA to work with The Lennox Group dealing in tax lien purchasing, research and property management. External Links - TV Tome Alex Michael (http://tvtome.com/tvtome/servlet/PersonDetail/personid-136754) - ABC Bachelor Bio Page (http://abc.go.com/primetime/specials/bachelor/bios/Alex.html)
