=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Krimachi | District Udhampur, Government of Jammu and Kashmir]
It lies 12 kms north of Udhampur on Udhampur-Lander road and 67 kms from Jammu. The complex consists of five temples and two small shrines. This valley amidst ...
URL: https://udhampur.nic.in/tourist-place/krimachi/

[20 Km - Distance from Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex]
The distance between Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex is 20 Km by road. You can also find the distance from Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex using other travel options like bus, subway, tram, train and rail. Apart from the trip distance, refer Directions from Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex for road driving directions!
URL: https://www.distancesfrom.com/distance-from-Udhampur-to-Krimchi-Temple-Complex/DistanceHistory/25185748.aspx

[Distance calculator - Calculate the distance online!]
The go-to service when it comes to distance calculation. Used by millions of people, trusted by gov edu and com. Calculate distances in miles and kilometres between any locations and coordinates, providing car routing, route planners, interactive maps, and more.
URL: https://www.distance.to/

[Krimchi Temples - Remnants of an era | India Heritage Walks]
The ruins of the Krimchi Temples are one of the most captivating places and are situated at a distance of about 14km from the city of Udhampur. These temples are considered to be the oldest in the state of Jammu dating back to the period between the 8th and the 9th centuries.
URL: https://www.sahapediaexperiences.org/blog/krimchi-temples-remnants-era

[The LOST Temples of Krimchi... - The Wanderer]
Jul 18, 2016 — Located at a distance of about 12 km from Udampur and 65 kilometre from Jammu city, Krimchi temples tell a tale of Jammu and Kashmir which ...
URL: https://www.sid-thewanderer.com/2016/07/lost-temples-of-krimchi-in-kashmir.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Krimachi | District Udhampur, Government of Jammu and Kashmir] ---
Krimachi Group of Temples Krimachi Krimachi is a small village in Udhampur district of Jammu & Kashmir UT. It lies 12 kms north of Udhampur on Udhampur-Lander road and 67 kms from Jammu. The complex consists of five temples and two small shrines. This valley amidst green mountains is located at an elevation of 730 m above the mean sea level . Two rivulets namely “Birunala” and Krimachi are draining this area. The local tradition says that in the past it was a halting place on Jammu- Kashmir route through Banihal . According to the contemporary of Pandavas of Mahabharata was responsible to lay the foundation of this place. Another tradition ,says that Krimachi was capital of Bhuti which had been one of the principalities of Jammu region under the successors of Daya-Karan, a ruler of Kashmir. According to Diwan Narsingh Dass Nargis the descendents of king Daya- Karan ruled for many centuries and their dynasty was known as “Bhutials”. As per tradition the last ruler of this dynasty named “Himmat Singh” was defeated by the Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Ultimately The Bhuti was given to Raja Gulab Singh . Thus Bhuti was included in to the Jammu Kingdom in A.D. 1834. The group of temples at Krimachi has been built over the elevated terrace of Biru Nala. Photo Gallery How to Reach: By Air Jammu Airport (78 Km) By Train Udhampur Railway Station (16 Km) By Road By Pvt Bus or Taxi


--- [20 Km - Distance from Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex] ---
The distance between Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex is 20 Km by road. You can also find the distance from Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex using other travel options like bus, subway, tram, train and rail. Apart from the trip distance, refer Directions from Udhampur to Krimchi Temple Complex for road driving directions!


--- [Distance calculator - Calculate the distance online!] ---
Distance calculator With the distance calculator distance.to you can easily determine distances between world-wide locations. Simply enter any desired location into the search function and you will get the shortest distance (air line) between the points, the route (route planner) as well as all important information. Of course, you can also determine distances between coordinates (latitude / longitude). Flight time and flight distance If you want to know the exact flight distance or flight time between two cities or airports, simply enter the airport code (IATA) and you will get the appropriate data. If you do not have the appropriate code (IATA), simply search for the desired destination, the nearest airports will be displayed. Time difference and time zones Would you like to know how late it is now at your destination or how many time zones you will cross? Here you will find the answer. This distance calculator shows you the time zones and local time and calculates the time difference between start and destination. Find midpoint between places You want to know where the centre is between two cities or places, or where you can meet in the middle? Distance.to calculates the geographic midpoint between locations and shows the centre of your travel route. Popular routes Cities in USA New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Brooklyn, Houston, Queens, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Manhattan, San Antonio, San Diego, The Bronx, Dallas, San Jose, Austin, Jacksonville, San Francisco, Columbus, Fort Worth, Indianapolis, Charlotte, Seattle, Denver, El Paso, Detroit, Boston, Memphis, Portland, Oklahoma City, Las Vegas, Baltimore, Washington D.C., Milwaukee, Albuquerque, Tucson, Nashville, Fresno, Sacramento, Kansas City, Long Beach, Mesa, Staten Island, Atlanta, Colorado Springs, Virginia Beach, Raleigh, Oakland, Minneapolis, Tulsa, Wichita, New Orleans, Arlington, Cleveland, Bakersfield, Honolulu, Tampa Country list AD (Andorra), AE (United Arab Emirates), AF (Afghanistan), AG (Antigua and Barbuda), AL (Albania), AM (Armenia), AO (Angola), AR (Argentina), AT (Austria), AU (Australia), AZ (Azerbaijan), BA (Bosnia and Herzegovina), BB (Barbados), BD (Bangladesh), BE (Belgium), BF (Burkina Faso), BG (Bulgaria), BH (Bahrain), BI (Burundi), BJ (Benin), BN (Brunei), BO (Bolivia), BR (Brazil), BS (Bahamas), BT (Bhutan), BW (Botswana), BY (Belarus), BZ (Belize), CA (Canada), CD (Democratic Republic of the Congo), CF (Central African Republic), CG (Republic of the Congo), CH (Switzerland), CI (Ivory Coast), CL (Chile), CM (Cameroon), CN (China), CO (Colombia), CR (Costa Rica), CU (Cuba), CV (Cape Verde), CY (Cyprus), CZ (Czechia), DE (Germany), DJ (Djibouti), DK (Denmark), DM (Dominica), DO (Dominican Republic), DZ (Algeria), EC (Ecuador), EE (Estonia), EG (Egypt), ER (Eritrea), ES (Spain), ET (Ethiopia), FI (Finland), FJ (Fiji), FR (France), GA (Gabon), GB (United Kingdom), GD (Grenada), GE (Georgia), GH (Ghana), GM (Gambia), GN (Guinea), GQ (Equatorial Guinea), GR (Greece), GT (Guatemala), GW (Guinea-Bissau), GY (Guyana), HN (Honduras), HR (Croatia), HT (Haiti), HU (Hungary), ID (Indonesia), IE (Ireland), IL (Israel), IN (India), IQ (Iraq), IR (Iran), IS (Iceland), IT (Italy), JM (Jamaica), JO (Jordan), JP (Japan), KE (Kenya), KG (Kyrgyzstan), KH (Cambodia), KI (Kiribati), KM (Comoros), KN (Saint Kitts and Nevis), KP (North Korea), KR (South Korea), KW (Kuwait), KZ (Kazakhstan), LA (Laos), LB (Lebanon), LC (Saint Lucia), LI (Liechtenstein), LK (Sri Lanka), LR (Liberia), LS (Lesotho), LT (Lithuania), LU (Luxembourg), LV (Latvia), LY (Libya), MA (Morocco), MC (Monaco), MD (Moldova), ME (Montenegro), MG (Madagascar), MK (Macedonia), ML (Mali), MM (Myanmar), MN (Mongolia), MR (Mauritania), MT (Malta), MU (Mauritius), MV (Maldives), MW (Malawi), MX (Mexico), MY (Malaysia), MZ (Mozambique), NA (Namibia), NE (Niger), NG (Nigeria), NI (Nicaragua), NL (Netherlands), NO (Norway), NP (Nepal), NR (Nauru), NZ (New Zealand), OM (Oman), PA (Panama), PE (Peru), PG (Papua New Guinea), PH (Philippines), PK (Pakistan), PL (Poland), PT (Portugal), PY (Paraguay), QA (Qatar), RO (Romania), RS (Serbia), RU (Russia), RW (Rwanda), SA (Saudi Arabia), SB (Solomon Islands), SC (Seychelles), SD (Sudan), SE (Sweden), SG (Singapore), SI (Slovenia), SK (Slovakia), SL (Sierra Leone), SM (San Marino), SN (Senegal), SO (Somalia), SR (Suriname), SS (South Sudan), ST (Sao Tome and Principe), SV (El Salvador), SY (Syria), SZ (Swaziland), TD (Chad), TG (Togo), TH (Thailand), TJ (Tajikistan), TL (East Timor), TM (Turkmenistan), TN (Tunisia), TO (Tonga), TR (Turkey), TT (Trinidad and Tobago), TV (Tuvalu), TW (Taiwan), TZ (Tanzania), UA (Ukraine), UG (Uganda), UY (Uruguay), UZ (Uzbekistan), VA (Vatican), VC (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines), VE (Venezuela), VN (Vietnam), VU (Vanuatu), WS (Samoa), XK (Kosovo), YE (Yemen), ZA (South Africa), ZM (Zambia), ZW (Zimbabwe) Languages Help make this service available to everyone in the world and translate distance.to into other languages. Translate now! - Distance calculator - Entfernungsrechner - Afstandsberegning - Kalkulačka vzdálenosti - Distancia entre ciudades - Distancia entre cidades - Distance entre deux villes - Distanze chilometriche - מחשבון מרחק - Afstand berekenen - Beräkna Avstånd - Калькулятор расстояний - Distanta de calculator - المسافة حاسبة - Mesafe hesaplama - Kalkulator odległości - Калькулятор відстані


--- [Krimchi Temples - Remnants of an era | India Heritage Walks] ---
The overwhelming beauty of Kashmir is marked with intrigue. Kashmir was once imbued with Hinduism and spirituality, and Kashmiri Shivaism, a non-dualistic tradition that dates back to 850 C.E., had a deep influence on it. It was a Kashmiri Hindu, Swami Lakshman Joo, who was instrumental in reviving Kashmiri Shivaism. (Walk the talk with Canta Dadlaney, through the ruins of Krimchi Temples that transport you to a bygone history marked with riches and royalty!) The ruins of the Krimchi Temples are one of the most captivating places and are situated at a distance of about 14km from the city of Udhampur. These temples are considered to be the oldest in the state of Jammu dating back to the period between the 8th and the 9th centuries. While no written information exists today to validate their history, the stories behind the construction of these temples are numerous. Some say they were built by King (Raja) Kichak of the Mahabharat (the ancient historic war fought between the Pandavas and the Kauravas), while others state that they were built by the Pandavas, who, after being sent into exile, spent a lot of their time in this region. This accounts for these temples popularly referred to as the ‘Pandhava Temples’. Destination - Krimchi A 30-minute drive by road from Udhampur city brings you to this complex which includes a total of seven temples, four large ones facing the east and three small ones facing the west. Built on the banks of a stream, the temples are surrounded with lush foliage and a vast range of colourful flowers. The main temple stands at a towering height of 50 ft and is dedicated to Hindu deities i.e. Lord Shiva, his consort Goddess Parvati, their child, Lord Ganesha and Lord Vishnu. A Celebrated History Krimchi was the brain-child of King Kichak, a contemporary of the Pandavas who defeated and killed him. The lineage of royals who ruled Krimchi is long with some of the notable rulers being King Dayakaran (the son of King Puran Karan), King Bahadur Singh and, King Himmat Singh. Temple Architecture For the convenience of visitors and tourists, the temples have been marked from one to seven. Temple number three is the oldest and temple number one appears as the most decorated one. A lot of information has been concisely detailed throughout the temples to give an insight into the background of this sacred place. Many attribute the architecture of these temples to Greek influences though some local folk state that the architecture is influenced by the ‘Nagara’ style of North India. Some believe that they were built by the Pandavas while others affirm that they were built by the Dev dynasty of Jammu state. The eroded walls depict faded abstract impressions and the structures appear very similar to the Indian temples at Chamba, Bhubanewswar and Barmour. The pillars bear discrete foliage motifs which speak volumes of the creativity of that time. In the past, archaeologists and researchers, in the course of excavations, discovered stone idols, iron arrow heads, earthen pots and other ancient paraphernalia which are exhibited for all to see. The excavations have now been stopped to retain the historical importance of these monuments which have a unique story of their own. Many a request has been put forth for this temple complex to be deemed as a World Heritage site to no avail. Walking amongst these ancient ruins transports one to a mystical era of a past, deeply mired in spirituality and imbues one with an unknown serenity and calm. These ancient temple ruins make for a very popular tourist attraction and are a must-visit for curious minds and solace seekers. Timings of visit: 6am – 6pm. Banner Image credit- Canta Dadlaney


--- [The LOST Temples of Krimchi... - The Wanderer] ---
The LOST Temples of Krimchi... This is a story of my unplanned visit to this architectural wonder... | The Lost temples of Krimchi in Kashmir | | The elaborate entrance to the temple | I had already spent a few days in Jammu and hadn't liked the town much due to the heat there. On a chance encounter in the bus from Jammu to Srinagar, I met someone who told me about some ancient temples in the area. I am a sucker for anything old, so I took some directions form him and made an impromptu stopover at Udhampur to visit these temples. I had set a daily expenditure limit for myself and hotel expense was capped at Rs 150/ night. So I took a room in a shady lodge where my bus driver also stayed with the cleaner and decided to explore these ancient temples the very next day. | One of the few solitary temples at the complex... | | The style is unique, yet closely resembles the temples in Uttarakhand | | A few surviving carvings... | One of the places I visited was Krimchi temples, located about 12 kilometres from the city. There were no buses so I simply took a jeep and then hiked to the village. Interestingly there was simply no one that I met during the hike, except a few local men who waved and smiled. I guess my long hair made me stand out quite a lot then! Legend of Krimchi temples It is believed that Raja Kichak of Mahabharata was the creator of this town as well as all the temples. Later when the Pandavas were in exile, they spent many years living here.This legend has also given these temples another name - Pandava temples. So why were the temples destroyed/ abandoned? Well, I don't know the real answer but according to the legends it was the Pandavas themselves who destroyed the city. Why? Hmmm...I haven't dug so deep into scriptures yet :) Architecture of Krimchi temples The temples are extremely beautiful and even more so for me as I didn't expect this to come out of my chance encounter. In other words I was simply blown by the temples! They were pretty much in ruins, yet quite majestic.| Another view of the temples | | The very Roman columns | | What's on top? | | Lord Ganesha on top of the column... | The one thing that stuck me the most was the influence of Roman architecture in these temples. The perfectly carved columns certainly looked like a version of Doric style columns from ancient Rome. This was not so surprising as trade was common between the two civilisations back then (I wonder what happened now - I never a thing about Greece in India)., and the temples were located on a trade route so ideas must have traveled. Maybe a Roman architect himself came over and helped execute this ;) While we are at it, I also found the temples quite close to the architectural style of temples in Uttarakhand. Since I come from the state, I have explored some very interesting and not-so-popular places there too, and also did a small series on Temples of Almora, which will give you a visual representation of what I am talking about. The ASI description is a bit bland on architecture, but perhaps more accurate than some of my own conclusions. 'This group of temples consists of four large and three small Shiva temples and they are marked from one to seven. Five of these temples are raised on the common platform. All temples, except one, face east and are built on a similar plan comprising a Garbhagriha with curvilinear shikara and antarala with sukanasika. On eo the temples has pillared mandala in front of astarala which seems to be later. The garbhagriha is built on triratha and Pancharatha plan externally and square internally.' | Detailed carvings | | I can only imagine what this place would have looked like in its heydays... | | Its mostly original stones, but some are new as the structure on the left | Planning a visit to Kashmir soon? Read these stories to get some more inspiration :) An evening at Shah-e-Hamdam in Srinagar Srinagar's Heritage walk through old city Floating vegetables market of Srinagar A brief history of Srinagar's houseboats ---------- This is a part of a new series called 'Lost temples of Jammu and Kashmir'. Long forgotten in history, I feel it's our responsibility to bring out stories of these architectural and cultural marvels, and keep them alive.
