=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Patna Planetarium - Show Timings, Prices & Duration]
Built by Bihar Council on Science & Technology, the planetarium opened for public on 1st April 1993. Its concept came up in the mind of Shri Satyendra Narain ...
URL: https://www.indianholiday.com/bihar/tourist-attraction/patna/patna-planetarium.html

[Indira Gandhi Planetarium - Wikipedia]
It was conceptualised in 1989 by Bihar Chief Minister Shri Satyendra Narain Sinha with construction [4] commencing in the same year, and opened for the public from 1 April 1993. [3] It is named after senior Indian National Congress leader and former Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indira_Gandhi_Planetarium

[Best Time To Visit Patna Planetarium]
Patna Planetarium was conceptualized in 1989 and opened to the public in 1993. It stands among the largest planetariums all over India and is tourists from far- ...
URL: https://www.tourtravelworld.com/india/patna/patna-planetarium.htm

[Indira Gandhi Planetarium - Patna - Wikimapia]
The Planetarium was dedicated to the Nation and opened for the public from 1 April 1993.It is named after senior Indian National Congress leader and former Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi.
URL: https://wikimapia.org/151832/Indira-Gandhi-Planetarium

[Patna Planetarium on top of its game. An IAS officer ...]
Jul 9, 2025 — ... Planetarium that was first opened for the public over three decades ago in 1993. ... Bihar is also the land of Aryabhatta. Before him, Dr. Chandra ...
URL: https://theprint.in/ground-reports/patna-planetarium-is-on-top-of-its-game-today-an-ias-officer-sparked-the-transformation/2681998/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Patna Planetarium - Show Timings, Prices & Duration] ---
Also known as Indira Gandhi Planetarium, Patna Planetarium is one of the most important tourist attractions in India and also one of Asia’s largest planetariums. Located in the Indira Gandhi Science Complex, the planetarium is equally popular amidst domestic and foreign tourists. Regular film shows and exhibitions on topics of astronomy are run here. Built by Bihar Council on Science & Technology, the planetarium opened for public on 1st April 1993. Its concept came up in the mind of Shri Satyendra Narain Sinha, Chief Minister of Bihar, in the year 1989 and was inaugurated by the then chief minister of Bihar, Laloo Prasad Yadav on 21st /March 1993. Check out Bihar tour packages, Nalanda tour packages, Vaishali tour packages, Buddhist tour packages


--- [Indira Gandhi Planetarium - Wikipedia] ---
The Indira Gandhi Planetarium (ISO: Indirā Gāndhī Tārāmaṇḍal), also known as the Patna Planetarium (ISO: Paṭnā Tārāmaṇḍal), is located in Patna's Indira Gandhi Science Complex. The planetarium was constructed through Bihar Council on Science & Technology at a total cost of about ₹110 million (equivalent to ₹1.2 billion or US$14 million in 2023). It was conceptualised in 1989 by Bihar Chief Minister Shri Satyendra Narain Sinha with construction commencing in the same year, and opened for the public from 1 April 1993. It is named after senior Indian National Congress leader and former Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi.
The Indira Gandhi Planetarium is one of the largest planetariums in Asia. It attracts many domestic as well as foreign tourists. The planetarium has regular film shows on subjects related to astronomy. It also holds exhibitions, which attract many visitors.
The planetarium, which previously used traditional opto-mechanical projection of celluloid film, now employs a modern digital projection system featuring state-of-the-art Christie projectors installed by ZEISS in 2023. This system enhances the experience with high-resolution 3D projections.


--- [Best Time To Visit Patna Planetarium] ---
Patna Planetarium aka Indira Gandhi Planetarium is a famous tourist destination in Bihar. This planetarium is located in Patna city. It bears the name of the former Indian PM, lt. Indira Gandhi. Patna Planetarium was conceptualized in 1989 and opened to the public in 1993. It stands among the largest planetariums all over India and is tourists from far-away places visit this museum. It Is Known For:- 1) Patna Planetarium is one the largest planetariums in India. 2) The authorities of this planetarium host various exhibitions and film shows related to the subject of astronomy. 3) Apart from the exhibitions and movie shows, seminars for the budding astronomers are organized as well. 4) The locals and tourist that have a special taste in astronomy flock to this planetarium on a huge scale. Best Time To Visit:- Patna Planetarium is visited on a huge scale by many visitors. One can embark a visit to this planetarium during any time of the year. Various educational institutions also visit here, especially when there’s a celestial event. Watch Out! Many visitors go to Patna Planetarium on the occasion of the eclipse and meteor shower. If you’re in the city and get the chance, do not miss visiting this intriguing planetarium. Reaching There:- Patna city is well-connected to the major highways, railways, and airways. Such connectivity makes it easier to reach the city from anywhere in Bihar. The roadways bus, broad gauge trains, and flights are the apt options. People travel within Patna by the local transit. Nearest Railway Station:- Patna Junction Nearest Airport:- Patna Airport


--- [Indira Gandhi Planetarium - Patna - Wikimapia] ---
Indira Gandhi Planetarium (Patna) India / Bihar / Patna / Bailey Road World / India / Bihar / Patna World / India / Bihar / Patna planetarium Add category Indira Gandhi Planetarium is located in Patna's Indira Gandhi Science Complex. Planetarium was constructed through Bihar Council on Science & Technology at a total cost of about Rs. 11 Crores.It was conceptualised in 1989 by Bihar Chief Minister Shree Satyendra Narain Sinha and was inaugurated by Shree Laloo Prasad, the then Chief Minister of Bihar, on March 21, 1993. The Planetarium was dedicated to the Nation and opened for the public from 1 April 1993.It is named after senior Indian National Congress leader and former Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi. The Patna Planetarium is one of the largest planetariums in Asia. It attracts a large number of domestic as well as foreign tourists. The planetarium has regular film shows on subjects related to astronomy. It also holds exhibitions, which attracts lots of visitors. Patna Planetarium is located on Bailey Road near Income Tax Golambar in Patna within a distance of 8 km from Patna Airport, 1½ km from Patna Railway station, 2 km from Government Bus stand, and 10 km from Private Bus stand. The Patna Planetarium is one of the largest planetariums in Asia. It attracts a large number of domestic as well as foreign tourists. The planetarium has regular film shows on subjects related to astronomy. It also holds exhibitions, which attracts lots of visitors. Patna Planetarium is located on Bailey Road near Income Tax Golambar in Patna within a distance of 8 km from Patna Airport, 1½ km from Patna Railway station, 2 km from Government Bus stand, and 10 km from Private Bus stand. Wikipedia article: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patna_Planetarium Nearby cities: Coordinates: 25°36'37"N 85°7'55"E Comments - india,s only 2nd and last planetorium. - It is among the largest and best planetorium in asia.It was a brainchild of Former Bihar CM S N Sinha, who is credited for the establishment of the Indira Gandhi Planetorium cum Science Centre in Patna.He laid the foundation stone in oct.1989 and it was inaugrated in early 1990's by then CM Lalu Yadav. - It is the second largest planetorium in India, a project initiated by then CM S.N. Sinha. - One of it's best in Asia.science based presentations.a dream-project of then CM satynarayan Sinha. - This planetarium is among the largest in Asia.The Congress CM S N SINHA's project named after the only women PM Indira Gandhi has earned national appreciation. - Bihar's pride and a landmark in Patna.Late satyendra Narain Sinha's vision saw the project being cleared by the then Union cabinet and became a landmark. - Hi this is the best place in world,i think - Well....Late Satyendra Sinha's(Then Bihar CM).... conceptualised the project and laid the foundation stone in October 1989....It is among Asia's Best Planetarium.... - one of then Bihar CM's another visionary project;the Bihar's first Software Park,conceptualised way back in 1989 still unfinishd - Hi,Bihar is the best base of education in the hole world.Now the bihar is the one of the improving state in the India.Now bihar is growing its all depart.As like Road,Transport,Study's Centers in bihar.Bihar has loat of things which are popular in asia.And now comeing day bihar will be top state in India. - Patna planitarium is the largest planetarium in Asia. - Are you educated in Bihar, 'cause you can't even spell "Whole". Before starting to sing praises for Bihar you need to step out of your air conditioned room and look at the pile of crap on the street where dogs and humans feed on trash... This is beyond bottom.... on top of that the politicians and people like you keep talking about how great Bihar is. Get real. - hello,iam an architect student.iam just want to now the architect who bult it - Show all comments - Birla Auditorium and Planetarium 942 km - Nehru Planetarium 1612 km - Regional Science Centre & Planetarium Calicut 1876 km - Science Museum & Bangkok Planetarium 2088 km - Malacca Planetarium 3182 km - Beijing Planetarium 3302 km - Matsuyama City Multipurpose Community Center 4652 km - Sapporo science center 5418 km - Arboretum Robert Ruffier-Lanche 7225 km - The Dome (La Coupole d'Helfaut-Wizernes) 7358 km - Adalatganj 0.2 km - Patna Museum Campus 0.3 km - Adalat Ganj 0.4 km - Patna Women's College 0.6 km - Patna High Court campus area 0.7 km - Patna G.P.O Campus 0.8 km - Carmel School 0.9 km - Harding Park 1 km - Bihar Museum 1.2 km - R Block 1.3 km


--- [Patna Planetarium on top of its game. An IAS officer ...] ---
Patna: The wonder of the cosmos had always called Kshitiz Kant, Class IX student at Radiant International School in Patna. In 2016, at just six years old, he visited the Bengaluru planetarium. It was his first visit to a planetarium. That visit sparked a passion that carried him across India—from Kolkata to Delhi, Kanyakumari to Chennai—until, finally, in January 2025, he arrived at the planetarium in Patna. “Patna’s planetarium is outstanding. The 360-degree dome, coupled with the 3D 8K technology, felt like I was aboard a satellite, floating in space,” he said, remembering his winter outing at the Indira Gandhi Planetarium that was first opened for the public over three decades ago in 1993. Kshitiz’s father, a station master, was frequently relocated, and with each new posting, he got an opportunity to explore the science centres. When this reporter spoke to him, Kshitiz was planning to make another visit to the planetarium in his summer vacations. This public science infrastructure has remained relevant among the people of Bihar and the government’s efforts to transform shows it realises the importance of this place. The once-familiar landmark has now evolved into a gleaming glass tower. Gone are the days of 2D lamp projections and the hour-long outdated show that only talked about stars and planets. Spread across 13 acres along Bailey Road, the planetarium now boasts of cutting-edge 3D 8K resolution laser technology, an interactive astronomy gallery, and a redesigned seating arrangement, reduced from 261 to 225. It’s an immersive experience for visitors with power packed 30-minute shows on the latest NASA-acquired films, available in both Hindi and English. “After a two-year redevelopment process, it was opened for the public in April 2024. It draws more than 1,500 visitors daily, with peak crowds reaching 2,000,” said Project Director Dr. Anant Kumar. In 2022, the state government had sanctioned Rs 36 crore to breathe new life into the old infrastructure. Also read: EtherealX to Agnikul, Indian startups enter space defence domain. Op Sindoor was the pivot Taramandal 2.0 Eight shows each day and a better seating capacity means long queues outside the ticket counters. Vloggers from across the country flock to capture and share its wonder, spreading the excitement far beyond Bihar’s borders in the reels and YouTube videos. “The investment did not merely restore the structure—it redefined how Bihar perceives science and astronomy,” said Kumar, proudly emphasing Bihar is also the land of Aryabhatta. Before him, Dr. Chandra Shekhar Singh briefly held the post of project director from January 2019 to December 2019. Singh recalled how, in the 1990s, Bihar had introduced 2D technology from Japan, a cutting-edge advancement at the time. However, as the years passed, the technology became outdated, and whenever the machines malfunctioned, there were no local mechanics available to replace their parts, everything had to be sourced from outside the country. “Shows were put on hold for days and even months due to such malfunctions. In this backdrop, the idea to upgrade and modernize emerged in 2013, initiated by the Chief Minister,” said Singh. According to him, decisions on which projector to install and which technology to adopt remained uncertain, especially as 3D technology was evolving rapidly after 2010, becoming mainstream in fields like medicine and aerospace. “Finally, during my tenure in 2019, as the world was preparing to introduce commercial 3D 8K technology, we finalised the tenders.” he added. Kumar is confident the Patna planetarium is the best. “If there were rankings, we would come first,” said Dr Kumar. The impact of its transformation has been undeniable. Visitor numbers have nearly doubled, surpassing 2,000 daily, according to Shiv Shanker Sahay, Nodal Officer. “Until 8K technology is upgraded to something even more advanced, we remain the most cutting-edge planetarium in the country,” he remarked. The planetarium has generated Rs 3.5 crore in revenue through ticket sales, parking, and exhibitions, more than enough to sustain its 50-member workforce, including operators, guards, and support staff. Also read: Inside CCMB Hyderabad—where scientists turn elephant blood, tiger bones into criminal evidence ‘Lacks interaction and fun’ Not all praise around the famous public science infrastructure is unchallenged. The missing link, educators argued, is the active engagement of schoolchildren—something Bihar Museum has done masterfully. “Our kids love visiting the Bihar Museum and science centre but the planetarium, though modernised, still lacks incentives and curated programs for children,” remarked Principal Manisha Sinha of Radiant International School. The last school batch that visited the planetarium was before it was shut down for renovations. For nearly a decade, it had been reduced to hosting silk saree exhibitions, said Sinha. “After 2015–16, it was hardly a planetarium,” she recalled. “Now that it has been upgraded, it is ready to inspire a new generation, only if the right programs are put in place.” Soumya, a 14-year-old Class IX student at Radiant International School, has a deep fascination for science. Her quest led her to visit the newly revamped planetarium twice, without the school’s curated trip. She watched two shows—Life of Trees and Voyagers. But during her visits, she noticed something intriguing. “For me, the astronomy gallery was very interactive and fun, but it felt underrated to other visitors—so many people were just busy taking selfies,” she reflected. “The presence of AI makes me wonder about how the future will look like now.” Though each visit to the planetarium has left her curious to learn more about science, space, and the survival of humankind, she felt that it needed to be more than just a movie show or an astronomy gallery. “I wish there had been a souvenir section too—something I could take home,” she said. “A guide needed to narrate the stories of each object that stands in the gallery in an interesting way.” Kshitiz, her classmate, and a science enthusiast, agreed. “To improve the experience, there should be science-based activities and quizzes. Right now, it feels more like a cinema hall, where many adults simply hoot, diminishing the joy of discovery,” he complained. Exciting developments are underway, assured Shiv Shanker Sahay, Nodal Officer. “A souvenir shop is set to open, and the two parks within the premises will be transformed into astronomical parks,” he told ThePrint, adding that the planetarium recently showcased the celestial event through a telescope, where three planets—Saturn, Venus, and the Moon—aligned between 20 May and 24 May 24 2025. “We will also have a 25-seater virtual reality theatre installed,” Sahay added. The project is expected to be completed within a year, with further expansions planned. Responding to the demands of children and schools, the project director stated that the planetarium had offered free shows for the first month. “We provide tickets at Rs 20 for students if they obtain a receipt from their principal for a visit,” he said. However, former project director Singh emphasised the need for creative engagement beyond just movie screenings. During Chandra Shekhar Singh’s tenure, a science scholarship program was introduced, awarding Rs 10,000 to winning student groups. A total of 500 groups benefited before the initiative was discontinued. “You cannot rely solely on a science center to satisfy children’s curiosity,” he commented. Also read: Indians are gaming US immigration to get Einstein visas meant for top scientists A new era for Bihar Patna planetarium’s fate was lost in oblivion. But things started to change sometime in 2021 when Kumar Ravi, a 2005 batch IAS officer, took charge in as Bihar’s Building Secretary. In the years that followed, he emerged as the face behind Bihar’s infrastructure transformation, leading projects that shaped collectorates, convention halls, museums, and the iconic Bapu Tower. Among his many projects, the revival of the planetarium stands out, his colleagues pointed out. “The planetarium stood defunct, forgotten for the last many years—until 2021, when the Department of Science and Technology (DST) proposed its revival,” Ravi recalled. “The Building Construction Department (BCD) undertook a sweeping overhaul—facade lighting, a new guest house, and landscape enhancements,” he added. For Ravi, this revival was deeply personal. “I first set foot in this planetarium as a school student, like many others, and witnessing its revival was truly exhilarating.” Under Ravi’s tenure, BCD also spearheaded the development of a brand-new planetarium in Darbhanga. He also oversaw the ongoing construction of Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Science City, a state-of-the-art science center being built in Rajendra Nagar, near Moin-ul-Haq Stadium, on a 22-acre site. With a budget of Ra 640 crore, the science city is expected to be completed by November 2025.” “The planetarium should be seen in the context of the science city because, once it comes to life, it will offer children an experience unlike anything before,” said Dr. Chandra Shekhar Singh, who is currently a principal at a polytechnic college. He is hopeful that this will mark the beginning of a science-based movement. Also read: Rajasthan village gets a dream school from Mumbai business tycoon. Sparks a rush in Rajsamand Imported tech In 2022, Kumar Ravi and Lokesh Kumar Singh, then Secretary of the Science and Technology Department, alongside Project Director Dr. Kumar, travelled to Germany and France, on a hunt to bring the latest technological innovations to India. During this trip, they zeroed in on Carl Zeiss, a renowned German manufacturer specializing in optical, mechanical, and digital projection systems. From this collaboration, the planetarium acquired an advanced digital 2D/3D RGB laser-based projection system, setting a new benchmark in immersive astronomy experiences. To modernize the facility, a team of eight specialists from Kolkata was enlisted. Their work began with extensive waterproofing of the dome’s outer surface to prevent seepage, followed by critical structural repairs to reinforce the aging building. “A custom-designed screen for the dome’s inner surface was sourced from the United States,” shared Dr. Kumar, highlighting the efforts made to enhance the planetarium’s visual experience. The LED-based projector, featuring multiple lenses, brings millions of stars to life on the 16-meter projection dome, precisely angled on an aluminum screen. To add value beyond projections, a high-capacity optical telescope was procured through the National Council of Science Museums for Rs 10 lakh, now proudly displayed in the astronomy gallery. The planetarium also features 25 interactive exhibits, showcasing both advancements and historic discoveries, including the Big Bang Theory, Vikram Lander, Aditya-L1, and a statue of Aryabhata. “Among all planetariums in India, only those in Kolkata and Karnataka feature this latest 3D projection system—but they don’t have 8K resolution,” noted Project Director Dr. Kumar. Also read: 6 years, 400 trials, and a breakthrough—how Kashmir gave India its first gene-edited sheep ‘International standards’ Gautam Kumar, a 34-year-old Data Scientist and a native of Bihar, felt a wave of nostalgia when he stepped into the Indira Gandhi Planetarium in December 2024. This place is etched into his childhood memories, just like it is for many others who grew up in Patna and other parts of Bihar. His first visit had been in the early 2000s, a time when visiting the planetarium was more than just a day out. Back then, it wasn’t just about science—it was about the thrill of sitting in an air-conditioned hall, witnessing celestial wonders in 2D projections, with tickets priced at just Rs 10 or 15. Now, decades later, Kumar returned—this time, not as a wide-eyed child, but as a scientist, bringing along his three-year-old nephew and five-year-old niece to experience the magic. “The 3D shows were breathtaking,” he remarked. A seasoned science museum traveller, Kumar had visited Birla Planetarium and Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium, but this experience felt different, he said. “My brother, who lives in the United States, was also amazed by the experience. He said it stands on par with international planetariums, if not better,” Kumar shared. “For me, even the astronomy gallery stood out.” Lord Khan, 46, a Political Science graduate and now a businessman, vividly remembers his first visit to the planetarium. “There wasn’t much to explore in Patna back then. Taramandal was one of the few places to visit.” This time, he came with his two sons, Yashav and Arif, both science students in classes X and XII, respectively. But what made this trip to Taramandal unique was that it wasn’t the young boys leading the way like the earlier times—it was his sister, Kiran Khan, 50, who convinced the family of four to visit the planetarium, in the scorching May heat. She had once experienced the grandeur of Kolkata’s planetarium and longed to see how Patna’s compared. Standing near the entrance, Kiran Khan noticed something unusual—more adults than children gathering outside the gates. Inside the auditorium, adults outnumbered children. The echoes of excitement were missing. The joyful shouts were replaced by quiet observation. The scene was a stark contrast to decades ago, when children experienced planetariums as places of magic, wonder, and limitless possibility. “For kids these days, the entire universe is at the palm of their hands,” Kiran Khan commented. “Today, bringing them to science museums and planetariums has become a challenge,” said Krishan Mohan, a commuter operator on the ticker counter. The reactions inside the hall are not quite the same as they were years ago, he mentioned. Planetariums have transformed into entertainment hubs and are not just places of education. Visitors take selfies under the dome and in the gallery. Vloggers declare it a must-visit experience for a mere Rs 100. “There is a need to spark curiosity and pull the children away from screens,” said Kiran Khan. The article is part of a three-part series on state of planetariums in India. Read all articles here (Edited by Anurag Chaubey)
