=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cousin George | Tom and Jerry Wiki | Fandom]
George Cat is the musophobic and identical cousin of Tom. George's appearance is identical to his cousin, except for the fact that he does talk and that he, rather ironically, has a fear of mice, making him a scaredy-cat. George's only appearance so far was in Timid Tabby. Jerry could not tell the difference between him and Tom, because of their appearances being similar to each other, also ...
URL: https://tomandjerry.fandom.com/wiki/Cousin_George

[List of Tom and Jerry characters - Wikipedia]
This usually happens when the latter pushes Tom a little too far, such as in The Million Dollar Cat, where Jerry learns that Tom will lose his newly acquired wealth if he harms any animal, "including mice." He then torments Tom a touch too much until he retaliates. In Timid Tabby, Tom's look-alike cousin pushes Jerry over the edge.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Tom_and_Jerry_characters

[Timid Tabby (Western Animation) - TV Tropes]
Screw This, I'm Outta Here!: Jerry initially tries to scare George (unaware that he's actually Tom's identical cousin), but the former soon flees to a house for mice with nervous breakdowns after being terrified at the sight of Tom and George pretending to be a two-headed, four-armed and four-legged cat monster.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/WesternAnimation/TimidTabby

[Tom and Jerry - Timid Tabby (1957) - YouTube]
This is the one hundred sixth episode of Tom and Jerry released to theaters on April 19, 1957. This is one of the few cartoons where Tom wins. This is Cousin George's only appearance in the ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sfjUoZrR7VI

[Timid Tabby (Short 1957) - Plot - IMDb]
Summaries Tom's fraidy cat cousin comes for a visit and Jerry takes advantage of the cowardly feline. Tom's cousin, George, comes to visit, even though he's terribly afraid of mice. When Jerry gets out of Tom's ineffective prison, he discovers this and takes full advantage of it though he's rather confused, since Tom and George look alike.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0051086/plotsummary/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cousin George | Tom and Jerry Wiki | Fandom] ---
George Cat is the musophobic and identical cousin of Tom. George's appearance is identical to his cousin, except for the fact that he does talk and that he, rather ironically, has a fear of mice, making him a scaredy-cat. George's only appearance so far was in Timid Tabby. Jerry could not tell the difference between him and Tom, because of their appearances being similar to each other, also becomes confused with their personalities. This makes the two cousins win over him easily. Information[] George first appears when Tom opens the door of his house and finds George standing on a chair, afraid there could be a mouse around. He later finds Jerry when he takes a jellybean that Jerry was holding. But in the end of Timid Tabby, George getting over his fear of mice, as he and Tom scared Jerry out of Tom's house. Characteristics[] Appearance[] In the beginning of Timid Tabby, George appears with wearing straw hat with blue band, but it suddenly gone when Tom scared him with a toy shaped-mouse. And until the end of the episode, the hat was never comeback again. George's appearance is identical to Tom, although he is slightly shorter and his skin color is little lighter than him. Personality[] Cousin George is a shy, timid and scaredy-cat who is afraid of mice at the beginning of Timid Tabby, but at the end, he appears to have gotten over his fear. Episodes appear in[] Shorts[] - Timid Tabby - Feedin' the Kiddie (mentioned on the note) Trivia[] - In the Tom and Jerry Kids Show, a cat named Tim originally had the same fear as George, but Tim pretended he was not scared of mice, in contrast to George who is genuinely scared of mice. - Like his mouse counterpart Muscles, George acts as a foil of his own kind, in that he is scared of mice. Likewise, Muscles, can easily stand up to cats with no sweat. - He was voiced by Bill Thompson who also had voiced Droopy and Butch Dog.


--- [List of Tom and Jerry characters - Wikipedia] ---
This article contains the list of characters featured in the Tom and Jerry animated series, given in the order of the era in which they first appeared.




--- [Timid Tabby (Western Animation) - TV Tropes] ---
Timid Tabby is an animated Tom and Jerry short released on April 20th, 1957 by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It was directed by William Hanna and Joseph Barbera. Tom is chasing Jerry as usual, but the former receives a letter from his identical cousin, George, who is coming for a visit but is afraid of mice. When George arrives at the house, Jerry sees him, and mistaking him for Tom, takes the opportunity to scare George, which doesn't go unnoticed by the real Tom, so Tom decides to team up with his cousin to get back at Jerry. This cartoon provides examples of: - Big Brother Instinct: Cousin in this case. Tom is not happy when learning that Jerry is tormenting his cousin George by scaring him, so the first thing Tom does upon seeing this is to hit Jerry on the head and later he helps George to get back at Jerry. - Breaking Old Trends: This is one of the few episodes where Tom emerges victorious against Jerry. - Don't Do Anything I Wouldn't Do: Tom's chicken-hearted cousin visits, and he's scared of mice. After several scenes of confusion, Tom and his cousin team up to fool Jerry. Tom's rear shows up behind a wall and Jerry is about to kick it when his cousin (whom Jerry thinks is Tom gone cowardly) shows up at the other end and says "I wouldn't kick me if I were you!" - Earn Your Happy Ending: Tom and George successfully scare away Jerry as revenge for scaring the latter. - Everyone Has Standards: Tom. Despite scaring his cousin George with a toy mouse for his amusement, he becomes mad when learning that Jerry has been tormenting George and decides to help his cousin to get back at Jerry. - Eek, a Mouse!!: Tom's cousin, George has a fear of mice to the point where he arrives at Tom's house while standing on a chair. Jerry takes advantage of this to frighten him. However, George gets better after successfully scaring Jerry. - Hypocritical Heartwarming: Tom laughs after scaring George with a toy mouse (see above), but once Jerry starts doing it, he takes steps to stop him. - Identical Twin Mistake: Due to Tom and George being identical cousins, Jerry torments George (who is afraid of mice) believing him to be Tom. - Laser-Guided Karma: Jerry spends a good part of the episode scaring George for his own amusement (believing him to be Tom) to the point to where George jumps on the roof and later literally melts under a grate. However, Tom becomes mad at this and helps George to get back at Jerry by pretending to be a cat monster, which frightens Jerry to the point that he flees to a house for mice with nervous breakdowns. - Pet the Dog: When George tells Tom about Jerry scaring him, Tom tells his cousin about his plan to scare Jerry, and pats the nervous George on the back reassuringly. - Screw This, I'm Outta Here!: Jerry initially tries to scare George (unaware that he's actually Tom's identical cousin), but the former soon flees to a house for mice with nervous breakdowns after being terrified at the sight of Tom and George pretending to be a two-headed, four-armed and four-legged cat monster. - Security Cling: Whem Tom is about to leave George in the living room, the latter quickly clings on his cousin's arm to be reassured about not being any mice at the house, much to Tom's annoyance. - Trickster Twins: When Tom learns of Jerry tormenting George with his fear of mice, the two identical cousins team up to trick and scare Jerry by pretending to be a two-headed, eight-limbed cat monster. It works. Before that they also bewilder Jerry by pretending to be as long as a hallway (see above) and at one point reacting to Jerry's making a "wave hands beside the ears" face by doing the same thing— with four hands! - Troll: After George arrives at the house, Tom plays a mean prank on his cousin by scaring him with a wind-up toy mouse. It works, much to Tom's amusement.


--- [Tom and Jerry - Timid Tabby (1957) - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Timid Tabby (Short 1957) - Plot - IMDb] ---
- Tom's fraidy cat cousin comes for a visit and Jerry takes advantage of the cowardly feline. - —Jon ReevesTom's cousin, George, comes to visit, even though he's terribly afraid of mice. When Jerry gets out of Tom's ineffective prison, he discovers this and takes full advantage of it though he's rather confused, since Tom and George look alike. When Tom and George find this out, it's their turn to have some fun. - Tom chases Jerry around the house, as usual, when Jerry manages to escape into his mouse-hole. Tom the cat gets a letter in the mail. It is from his cousin George, who says he is coming over for a visit. He also states that he is terrified of mice. Tom then looks over Jerry's hole and decides to seal it up so that his cousin has nothing to be scared of. Soon, George arrives, standing on a chair, and looking identical to Tom. He asks Tom if he got his letter and if he is sure the house has no mice. George looks very shaky and stammers a lot while speaking due to his phobia for mice. George admits that he is not brave like the other cats. He says that he is ashamed of himself and hates to be left alone. Tom takes George's things and lets him in. However, George is still nervous about mice possibly being in the house. Tom uses a wind-up toy mouse to scare George for a laugh, which proves George's phobia of mice. Soon, Jerry escapes from his makeshift prison by sawing through the wooden planks blocking his mouse-hole and frightens George when Jerry dips into the same jar of candy that George was eating from. Upon seeing Jerry, George jumps in the air with fright and clings to the walls with his nails. Jerry is unaware that he is not frightening Tom and continues to frighten George by driving him up the wall every time he slides down. But when Jerry meets Tom, he really gets confused when he notices that Tom is not scared. To ends up swatting Jerry with a fly swatter and leaves him dazed. Jerry goes into his mouse-hole and Tom covers the hole with the TV cabinet. George comes up out of a vent he was hiding in and breaks the fourth wall by telling the viewers that he cannot help it if he is chicken. Jerry manages to squeeze his way out of his mouse-hole and finds George next to the TV. Jerry then spots George again and hides in the television. George, unaware of Jerry being inside it, turns on the TV to calm himself. However, when he sees Jerry on screen, he gets frightened again. George runs and hides behind the curtains, but it does not work so he runs away again. Jerry soon gets confused again when he spots Tom instead of George and notices that the cat is not flinching. Tom ends up swatting Jerry again. George tells Tom of his problem, and Tom whispers an idea to him. George asks if he thinks it is going to work, and Tom assures him. George says that he will try, though he is scared, and they put the plan into action. Jerry chases George into a room and scares him twice (Every time George is scared by Jerry, he jumps in the air) before Tom nails him with a dustpan the third time he opens the door. One of the cat twins hides behind a corner when Jerry sees him, but just when Jerry is about to kick him in the rear, George comes out the other corner, whistles, and tells him that he would not kick him if he were him. Soon, Jerry gets a taste of his own medicine when Tom frightens Jerry by making him and George's arms wave around at the same time to make it seem like one cat has four arms. Tom and George then sneak by the spooked Jerry under a purple carpet. Jerry steps out into the hallway and spots a frightened George who runs away from him on sight. Tom then asks for George to come behind a curtain with him, Jerry pulls the curtain back and scares the cat he spots three times. However, when he scares the cat once, another set of arms pops out, the second scare causes the cat to get a second pair of legs, and the third one makes a separate pop out. The "monster cat" laughs wickedly as a frightened Jerry runs for his life. He gets so scared that he runs out of the house, to the delight of the "monster cat", and heads to a house for mice with nervous breakdowns. Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content
