=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Severance Episode 1 and 2 Recap and Ending, Explained]
Feb 18, 2022 · The former Department Head, Petey, has left the company, leading to Marks promotion. Petey and Mark were best friends at work, but the severance process stops Mark from recollecting memories of Petey outside of work. Helly is Petey’s replacement and is assigned to work in the macro data refining department with Mark, Dylan, and Irving.
URL: https://thecinemaholic.com/severance-episode-1-and-2-recap-and-ending-explained/

[Mark Scout | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Mark Scout, known as Mark S. when working at Lumon, is a former history professor who underwent the severance procedure so his consciousness and memory are divided into two parts. Mark was born on April 3, 1978 and grew up with a younger sister named Devon, with whom he shared a close bond that continued long into their adult years. When he was growing up, Mark left his house's back gate open ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Mark_Scout

[Mark Scout - Severance Wiki]
Jul 23, 2025 · Mark Scout (born April 3, 1978) is a former college professor of history, specializing in World War I [1], at the college in Ganz. He now works at Lumon Industries, first as a Senior Macrodata Refiner and then as Macrodata Refinement Chief following a promotion after his coworker Petey abruptly left.
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/mark_scout

[Mark Scout - Wikipedia]
Mark Scout and Mark S. are fictional characters and the main protagonists of the Apple TV+ series Severance, portrayed by Adam Scott. An employee at Lumon Industries, former history professor Mark Scout underwent "severance"—a medical procedure that ensures they retain no memories of the outside world while at work, and have no recollection of their job once they leave, essentially creating ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Scout

[Severance cast: Adam Scott and Britt Lower star in season 2 | Radio Times]
Mar 26, 2025 · Adam Scott as Mark in Severance season 2. Who is Mark Scout? Mark Scout is a severed worker in the Macrodata Refinement division at Lumon Industries, and the boss of the department.
URL: https://www.radiotimes.com/tv/sci-fi/severance-season-2-cast/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Severance Episode 1 and 2 Recap and Ending, Explained] ---
‘Severance’ is a thriller series created by Dan Erickson that takes viewers on a mind-bending and reality-altering journey into the inner working of a corporate empire known as Lumon Industries. In the series, Mark Scout is an employee of the company who has undergone a process known as “severance.” While Mark is content with his job, a series of events pushes him towards investigating the true machinations occurring at Lumon industries. Like Mark, we are sure viewers are also vying for answers about the events happening at Lumon. If you need an explanation about the ending of ‘Severance’ episodes 1 and 2, here’s everything you need to know! SPOILERS AHEAD! Severance Episode 1 and 2 Recap The premiere episode of the series called ‘Good News About Hell’ opens with a woman being subjected to a test inside a locked room. We soon find out that the test subject is a new recruit at Lumon Industries named Helly and the test conductor is Mark Scout. Mark works in macro data refining and has been recently made the Head of the Department. The former Department Head, Petey, has left the company, leading to Marks promotion. Petey and Mark were best friends at work, but the severance process stops Mark from recollecting memories of Petey outside of work. Helly is Petey’s replacement and is assigned to work in the macro data refining department with Mark, Dylan, and Irving. Although Helly takes time to adjust to the severance process, she learns that she opted for the procedure of her own free will. The process separates a person’s work-related memories from personal ones, thereby creating a separate consciousness that resides within the severed floor. Outside work, Mark spends time with his sister and her friends while trying to recuperate from the loss of his wife, Gemma. He is greeted by a mysterious stranger who claims to be Petey and reveals their work friendship. Petey leaves a greeting card for Mark with an address on the back, promising that Mark will find more answers at the address. Mark returns home and has a conversation with Mrs. Selvig, who is, in reality, his boss, Ms. Cobel. Helly’s integration process continues in the second episode, titled ‘Half Loop.’ Helly soon realizes that she wants to quit but cannot do so due to the company’s protocols. She tries to escape but is caught by Mr. Graner. Mark takes responsibility for Helly’s actions and is sent to the Break Room. In the outside world, Mark thinks about Petey’s warnings and decides to check out the address. At the place, Mark meets Petey, who reveals that he has “unsevered” himself and has proof of a conspiracy within Lumon. Mark brings Petey to his house. As Mark contemplates the recent revelations, Petey begins to experience severe side-effects of being unsevered. Severance Episode 1 and 2 Ending: What Is Wrong With Petey? What Is Happneing at Lumon Industries? The second episode provides some answers about the inner workings of Lumon industries, and the company is outright creepy. While the severance process is voluntary, it is hard to understand its exact purpose. In the second episode, Helly finally gets the hang of her job, but it raises more questions about the true nature of Mark and his colleagues’ jobs. Moreover, the employees are provided with meager incentives and forced to remain productive for long hours, highlighting the brutality and rigidity of corporate work cultures. The employees are being churned and practically being kept captive at their workplace. Towards the second episode’s end, we learn that undergoing the severance process essentially separates a person’s work consciousness from their personal one. The work consciousness only exists on the severed floor of the Lumon Industries’ office. However, since Petey has undone the severance process, he feels burned out from reintegrating into being a single consciousness. While talking to Mark, Petey experiences severe migraines, which indicate that his health is deteriorating. In the episode’s final moments, Petey’s nose begins to bleed, and he is alarmed by the situation. While Petey takes a shower, he has visions of his work self. Petey’s reactions indicate that this isn’t the first time he has experienced something like this. The moment also strongly indicates that the severance process is something far more sinister and reality-altering than merely separating a person’s memories. The process seems to be creating an entirely new consciousness and is playing with a person’s perception of reality. Petey is one of the few people to have unsevered themselves, and his existence is key to solving the conspiracy at Lumon. Thus, the episode’s ending sets up a clear quest for Mark, as he must find a way of interacting with his work self to find more answers. Read More: When and Where is Severance Set In?


--- [Mark Scout | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Mark Scout, known as Mark S. when working at Lumon, is a former history professor who underwent the severance procedure so his consciousness and memory are divided into two parts. History[] Early Life[] Mark was born on April 3, 1978 and grew up with a younger sister named Devon, with whom he shared a close bond that continued long into their adult years. When he was growing up, Mark left his house's back gate open, which his dog escaped through and ended up getting killed. He felt great shame from the accident and still blamed himself decades later.[2] Meeting Gemma[] In his later years, Mark worked as a history professor at Ganz College, teaching about the First World War. He once took part in a blood drive hosted by Lumon Industries at the college, where he first met Gemma, a fellow member of the faculty. After spending a night out together, the two soon fell deeply in love, marrying after a short time and moving into a quaint woodland cottage where they lived an idyllic life together. The couple also became close friends with Devon and her husband Ricken Hale, often meeting to go on hikes and camping trips together. During one such meeting at their home, Gemma subtly informed Devon she was pregnant with Mark's child, while Mark and Ricken discussed a past trip, unaware. That night however, Gemma suffered a miscarriage and collapsed in the bathroom. Mark rushed in to tend to her and realized what had happened. After Gemma's miscarriage, the couple instead decided to have a child through in vitro fertilization treatments, receiving them from Butzemann Fertility Clinic. Unfortunately, three rounds of IVF came and went with no signs of success, putting a heavy strain on Mark and Gemma's marriage. He eventually suggested they stop trying for a baby. The stress and tragedy of the miscarriage and failed IVF caused Mark to despair, as he retreated into himself and became distant to Gemma. As he was working late one night, Gemma asked him to join her on a night out with local friends, but he gave a half-hearted excuse and decided to stay in. Gemma called out that she loved him, but Mark simply sat and didn't respond, only returning the sentiment after Gemma repeated herself. That night, tragedy struck Mark again, as police officers arrived at his door to inform him that Gemma had been killed in a car accident. Mark was utterly destroyed by Gemma's death, as well as guilty over his ignorant behavior to her just before she died. He helped identify her body and was forced to inform Gemma's parents and students of her death, receiving an urn of her cremated remains from the local morgue. A few weeks after her passing, Mark attempted to return to work at Ganz College, but his grief and the short time that had passed made the effort disastrous, as he started showing up for work drunk most days.[3] Joining Lumon & Innie Life[] After being fired or quitting, Mark fell into the orbit of Lumon Industries and became employed by the company. He agreed to have the Severance procedure performed on him, a neurosurgery process that implanted a microchip in his brain and separated his consciousness into two personalities, one that only existed to work on Lumon's underground severed workspace (the "Innie") and his original self who lived his personal life on the outside (the "Outie"). Mark agreed to the procedure purely because of his grief over Gemma's death, as he had hoped part of him would be free from the crushing pain he lived with daily.[4][5] Mark moved away from his and Gemma's cottage into the Lumon corporate town Kier.[6] His Innie self, known as Mark S., first awoke on the severed floor, where he received his orientation from fellow Innie Petey K., whom he threatened to kill after realizing he had no personal memories. Mark joined the Macrodata Refinement (MDR) department and worked alongside Petey, Irving B., and Carol D.. At some point after he woke up, Carol "retired" and was replaced by Dylan G.[1] Shortly after his orientation, Mark was given his first Macrodat file named Allentown, which he managed to refine and complete in a record-breakingly short time. Lumon managed to engineer a faster refinement process based on his work, cutting down the average completion time to a few weeks. In recognition for his outstanding debut, Mark was rewarded with a laser-etched crystal head cube of himself, a one-of-a-kind gift that other Innies didn't receive. Over the next two years at Lumon, Mark and the rest of the MDR team became close friends, Mark and Petey in particular became best friends and bonded over their shared humor. Mark had completed twenty-three files by the 882nd Quarter, with his latest being Dranesville.[7][1] Helly R.'s Arrival[] One day, Petey disappeared and never came into work. After an emotional breakdown in his car, Mark entered the office as usual. Floor manager Harmony Cobel and supervisor Seth Milchick informed him of Petey "leaving" the company, but refused to divulge why, deeply distressing him. He hesitantly accepted a promotion to Department Chief, and was given his first assignment of overseeing the orientation of Helly R., Petey's replacement. Observing her "birth" from a separate room through a speaker, Mark nervously probed Helly's memory for any bleedthrough effects by asking a series of questions, but she became aggressive and attempted to force her way out of the room. Mark eventually entered and informed Helly of her name and current situation, attempting to stick by the script he was given while under the watchful eye of a CCTV camera. Helly lashed out and threw the speaker at his head, cutting his temple open, and again tried to break the door down. Realizing Helly wouldn't listen to Lumon's propaganda, Mark instead went off-script and described his own experience waking up for the first time, just as she did. He attempted to reason with her and assured her she could still live a fulfilling life on the severed floor, but Helly still refused to listen and again demanded to be let free, which Mark finally granted her after she asked a third time. Mark walked Helly through the halls to the exit Stairwell and allowed her to walk through to "leave." After realizing she physically couldn't leave from her perspective, Mark assured her that she wasn't dead or in hell and brought her to Cobel's office. Milchick bandaged his temple wound while Cobel spoke with Helly, then entered her office himself. She sharply admonished him for going off-script and delivered a lecture about human ingenuity for even the most horrific creations, which the socially-stunted Mark failed to understand. She stated that a department like MDR could go good or bad, and the only difference is the people within it. He returned to MDR, arriving just as Helly finished watching a video from her Outie explaining Severance. Despondent, Helly questioned him if they ever get to leave, which he said she would, but perceptually that this version of her would never experience it. When she asked if she had any choice, Mark told her that every time she found herself at Lumon, it was because she chose to come back. Mark left the office and transitioned back to his Outie self, where he discovered an envelope on his car that gave a false explanation for his bandage, as well as a Pip's Bar & Grille gift card. As he left in his car, Mark nearly ran over Helly's Outie, though the two quickly moved on from it and showed no recognition of each other. Devon came to Mark's house that night to pick him up for a "dinner-less dinner" at her home with Ricken and his colleagues. While everyone spoke at the table, Mark remained silent until Danise asked him about his teaching days in Ganz, prompting another question from Patton about WW1. Mark stayed withdrawn from most of the conversation until Ricken bluntly revealed he was severed, instantly changing the mood to a tense one as everyone fell silent. Ricken apologized even though Mark expressed his indifference, but Danise then began hounding him with questions about what severance feels like and how he feels about "the other one," which he denied the existence of. Patton then tried to deliver his own explanation of what Mark experienced when working, but referred to his Innie as being "trapped" at Lumon, which aggravated Mark into threatening Patton. Ricken broke the tension in the air and expressed his own view that, in spite of the ethical controversies, he stood behind Mark's decision to sever unreservedly. After the others left, Devon made Mark a sandwich and they discussed his lack of visits to his therapist, as he believed severance was helping him better. Though Devon was still proud of him for taking the job, she felt that shutting out and forgetting about Gemma during his workday was not a healthy way to heal from her death. Mark didn't answer. Devon then offered for him to stay the night despite his protests, and he stayed in a race car-style bed intended for Devon and Ricken's upcoming child. Unable to sleep, Mark went downstairs to get water and noticed something moving outside Devon's house. He stepped outside and saw a strange man dressed in a business suit staring at him, suddenly vanishing after a car driving past distracted him. He told Devon about it the next morning, but she assumed it was probably a drunk patron from a nearby bar.[1] Petey Blows the Whistle[] After returning home, Mark went to Pip's at night to use his gift card, where he got a call from Mrs. Selvig about days when their bins were collected. Suddenly, the same businessman from the night before appeared and sat across from him, ordering him to hang up the phone. The stranger introduced himself as Petey, one of Mark's coworkers at Lumon, which Mark refused to believe until Petey told him he had managed to bypass his severance chip, a widely-accepted impossibility beforehand. Mark, still unconvinced, asked if Petey thought Lumon were after him, which he knew they were. Petey slid a red envelope to Mark and insisted that nothing Lumon says about the severed floor is true, and the information he knows needs to stay known. When Mark asked if they were friends, Petey confirmed he was Mark's best friend, while Mark was Petey's "very good" friend. After Petey left, Mark went to his car and read the letter. Petey explained that their Innie selves believed their Outies were monsters for trapping them at Lumon, but he knew now that wasn't true. Petey also gave him an address to come to alone, where he could find answers. He returned home and was met by Mrs. Selvig out front as she apologized for mixing up their bins. After asking about his dinner, Mrs. Selvig told him about an old saying from her mother that Catholic saints took eight hours a day to bless a "sleeping child." Mark excused himself and went to leave, though Mrs. Selvig then called out to him and said he was a good person.[1] Integrating Helly[] Once the weekend passed, Mark was the first to arrive in MDR, carrying out his duties as Department Chief to clean and prepare the office for its use that day. As he was dusting off the old group picture of MDR, Mark was distressed to see Petey's face, so he took all the group photos from everyone's desks and hid them in the storage closet. Helly then arrived and asked about their perception of time, as the weekend felt like a split second for her. He explained that they never experienced the passing to the next day, but instead believed it was better to focus on the physical effects of sleep and relaxation. Helly supposed the two weren't friends on the outside, which Mark agreed with. Mark gave Helly her introduction to the MDR terminals and the process of refining, through her first file Siena. He explained to her that certain clusters of numbers on her terminal would evoke an emotional response, allowing her to categorize it into a bin. The process baffled Helly, but Mark reassured her that getting the correct response to the numbers took time. Helly then asked if she was truly trapped, and if deciding to quit was an option for an Innie. Mark told her if she really wanted to, she could submit a resignation request to her Outie, which Dylan said almost never got approved. Mark then reminded her that, as her Innie self only exists at Lumon, then "quitting" would effectively end her life, however short it has been. Before Helly could respond, Milchick then arrived in MDR with a melon bar to celebrate Helly's induction into MDR. Milchick and the team played the team-building ball game, during which Helly became agitated at Milchick and bombarded him with questions about contacting her Outie and her outside life. Mark explained what the Outies were to Helly, and also confirmed that the elevators were equipped with letter-scanning code detectors, preventing messages from reaching the surface. After revealing some basic facts about Helly, Milchick passed the ball to Mark. He attempted to take his turn quickly, but Milchick said he used the same response. Mark, after a long pause, admitted he broke protocol by removing the group photos, as seeing Petey's face had made him feel sad. Milchick found his reaction sweet, but wondered why he was so emotional over Petey's departure as opposed to Carol D. Mark reminded him that Carol D.'s Outie filmed a retirement video and thus they knew she was leaving, whereas Petey had vanished with no warning, leaving him wondering if Petey was dead or in trouble somewhere. Milchick immediately shut down Mark's outburst, reminding MDR that deaths do not happen there, and their lives are protected at Lumon. Afterwards, the team indulged in the melon bar, during which Mark and Helly spoke. She asked him how he was going to find out if Petey's okay, but Mark said Milchick already made it clear they should stop prying. When Helly pressed him again, he told her that Milchick was kind and it was best to listen to him, lest they make him lose his cheery demeanor. The MDR team then gathered for their new group photo, but Helly became overwhelmed and stormed out of the office, writing a note for her Outie saying that she quit. Mark cautioned her again about the code detectors, though she refused to believe they were even real. Mark followed after her, causing her to run and make a break for the elevator. Sure enough, the decectors were triggered and Helly was sealed in the foyer, trapping Mark out via the emergency doors. Head of Security Doug Graner then arrived to deal with the incident, confiscating her note and moving to take her to the Break Room, until Mark intervened and caught Graner's attention. He apologized for the note and passed it off as him forgetting to tell Helly the data-smuggling restrictions, insisting the incident was on his shoulders. Graner then took him to the Break Room in Helly's place, where Mark received a punishment from Ms. Cobel herself. That night, Mark went out on a date with Alexa, Devon's midwife friend, where the two awkwardly discussed her past experience with delivering babies. As Mark downed several whiskeys, Alexa spoke to him about Lumon, puzzled by the effects severance had on a person's memory. She asked him if forgetting about those closest to him for eight hours a day messed with his head. Mark instead believed that it was the point for some people. Slightly drunk, Mark and Alexa left the restaurant and walked through the streets, during which he blundered remembering Alexa's hometown. Nearby, a group of young Whole Mind Collective activists were handing out pamphlets denouncing severance. Mark and Alexa approached them and he started drunkenly bombarding the WMC members with obnoxious questions about severance, but didn't actually disagree with their views on the procedure. Mark and Alexa left after he realized how aggressive he was being. After returning home, Mark continued to drink, but he was interrupted by Mrs. Selvig arriving at his door, where she offered him homemade chamomile cookies as a peace offering for a supposed fight between them. Mark invited her in and tasted her cookies, masking his disgust with praise, though Selvig then asked if he had been on a date based on his cologne. She told Mark a story about her late carpenter husband, who promised to build her a house in the afterlife, as well as a guest apartment in case she found a new man before joining him. Stunned, Mark called the story sweet and saw Mrs. Selvig out. He descended to the basement to find a replacement lightbulb, searching through boxes of Gemma's old handcrafts and memorabilia. He eventually gave up on the effort and passed out drunk on the sofa yet again.[7] The next morning, Mark decides to take up Petey's offer and calls Mr. Milchick while driving to the address on the card, informing him he was taking a sick day. After arriving at a greenhouse on 499 Half Loop Road, Mark was surprised to find Petey living in harsh conditions, as he couldn't return home for fear of being caught. Mark asked him what exactly they were working on in the office, but Petey still didn't know, despite managing to completely reverse the microchip's effects through an operation called "reintegration". He showed Mark a large, in-progress map of the severed floor which he was trying to recreate from the original, which he hid somewhere in the office before he left Lumon. Petey suddenly suffered a strange headache which he explained was caused by "reintegration sickness", baffling Mark as he'd never heard of such a thing; Petey was the first to contract it. Still unconvinced, Mark questioned what was so terrible about the severed floor, to which Petey started to explain what the break room was, then revealed he had managed to smuggle a cassette tape out of Lumon. The tape played a recording of one of Innie Mark's sessions in the break room, as he read the Compunction Statement to Milchick on the brink of tears, shocking and horrifying Mark. Feeling sympathetic due to their Innies' friendship, Mark brought Petey back to his home and gave him the basement sofa to sleep on. He also offered Petey a shower and a gifted bathrobe from Ricken, which Petey thanks him for before leaving to wash up. However, in the bathroom Petey suffered another mental attack from reintegration, causing an intense nosebleed that made him collapse in the shower; Mark repeatedly asked if he was okay.[7] Mark continued calling out to Petey to see if he was okay, but Petey suddenly left the bathroom and started talking to Mark about Lumon-related terms like "Cobel" and "Sunset Park", as he was experiencing a strong hallucination that perceptually transported him back to the MDR office. After Mark snapped him out of it, Petey tried to downplay it as disorientation, though he couldn't give an answer when Mark asked what Sunset Park was. After retrieving a pizza for Petey, Mark sat down and listened to him explain reintegration, describing it as having two separate lives suddenly meshed together, which scrambles the relativity of his memories and causes the hallucinations. Petey says "they" told him it would The next morning, as he went to leave for work, Mark found the flier from the WMC in his pocket and called in sick to work. Then he drove to the address on the card Petey gave him and found Petey living in a greenhouse there. Mark told him about the break room, where they were forced to recite a statement of contrition until the person with them believed they genuinely regretted what they'd done. Petey also said he'd been mapping the severed floor and left a copy of it for innie Mark to find before he left. Petey said he'd been experiencing reintegration sickness, which caused him a lot of pain. Mark brought Petey home with him since Petey couldn't return to his own home. He said Petey could stay on his couch and found a sleeping bag for him to use.[7] Mark spoke more with Petey about his reintegration and told Petey he wouldn't be reintegrating himself because severance had helped him, despite the negative things Petey told him about the company. The next morning, when Mark went to leave for work, he told Petey that he'd lost his wife a few years prior and that severance helped him deal with that. Petey said he used to come to work with red eyes and they joked that he had an elevator allergy. He was taking the grief to work with him, only he didn't know where it came from. When Mark got to work, he found that the new group photos had come in. Helly also told him he'd been gone the day before and she successful refined some data while he was gone. Mark then read the morning announcements for his first time as the new department chief, including the news that Helly's resignation request had been denied, which upset her. Mark found Helly twice trying to send her outie messages. He stopped her both times and warned her that it would be worse for her if she tried it. Then he took Helly and the rest of the MDR team to the Perpetuity Wing at Irving's suggestion, to show Helly what kind of history she was part of. While they were there, they played "Eagan Bingo," except Irving, who treated the wing with reverence. This led to an argument when Irving discovered their game. The argument was interrupted when Mark noticed that Helly had left the room. He chased her to a stairwell, where she broke a window and stuck her arm out with a note in her hand. Graner found them and had Helly come with him to the Break Room. At the end of the day, after everyone else had left, Mark decided to replace the old group photos with the new ones. As he opened the last frame, he found a map of the severed floor behind the picture. He put the map back in the frame with the new picture and left work. When Mark got home, he found that Petey was gone. He drove around and found Petey at a convenience store, being cared for by EMTs. He watched from a distance as Petey collapsed and the EMTs said he wasn't breathing. Mark went back home and removed all evidence that Petey had been there. Then he heard Petey's phone vibrating with an incoming phone call.[6] Petey's phone continued ringing, so Mark hid it in a box of camping equipment. Back at work, Mark looked at the map Petey had left him. When he left the bathroom, Irving mentioned that Helly was still in the Break Room despite it being several hours into her second day there and asked if Mark could check on her. Their conversation was interrupted when Burt came in, bringing the new handbook tote bags and offering up a tour of O&D. As Irving life to take him up on that, Helly returned and reported that she'd had to recite the compunction statement 1,072 times. Helly talked to Dylan about her experience until Mark reminded them they weren't supposed to talk about it. When Helly found the map in Mark's drawer, she confronted him about it, calling him a hypocrite for lecturing her about policy while he had a hidden map of the floor. She was also surprised he wasn't planning to do anything with the map even though his best friend had left it. Mark took the map and shredded it to prove to Helly he didn't care about it. Irving came back to MDR and said there was an emergency. Then he led Mark and Dylan to a room where he'd found a book, The You You Are, on a chair. Dylan thought it was a message from Petey, while Irving thought it was a loyalty test. Mark decided he'd take it to Milchick. When they got back to MDR, they found Helly missing. She had gone to Cobel's office and threatened to cut off her fingers if Cobel didn't allow her to record a video to her outie. Once she'd recorded the message, they all escorted her to the elevator to leave. She quickly returned with a message from her outie refusing to let her quit. At home that night, Mark got a notification telling him about an article reporting Petey's death. Mark decided to go to Petey's funeral. When he ran into Mrs. Selvig there, he said he'd read that Petey worked at Lumon and thought they might have known each other. He met Petey's ex-wife and daughter. June, Petey's daughter, learned that Mark was severed and asked if he'd ever considered that maybe severance wasn't the best way to deal with his problems. Mark admitted he didn't know. When the funeral started with a video of Petey playing music with his daughter, Mark became overwhelmed and had to leave. He went home, but instead of going inside, he left again and drove out to a remote location, where he touched a tree and cried. Despite having said he'd turn the book into Milchick, Mark kept it and secretly read it in the bathroom. Then he was called in for a wellness session with Ms. Casey, who gave him a ball of clay to mold his feelings. He molded the ball into the shape of a tree.[8] Mark returned to MDR and then left for the day. When he got to the elevator, he found Helly hanging there. He grabbed onto her, holding her body up, and called for help. Graner came, untied Helly, and then ordered Mark into the elevator. When Mark returned to work, he found Cobel and Milchick waiting for him. Cobel said that it happened on his watch, implying that it was his fault. She also told him Helly was bruised, but would be okay. With Helly gone, Mark hid in the bathroom to read The You You Are, which he found inspiring. When Mark left work one day, He found several missed calls from Ricken, telling him that Devon was in labor. He went to the birthing retreat, where he ran into Alexa. He apologized for the night of their date, but she said it was okay. Mark then supported Devon and helped Ricken hang up kelp. During a contraction, he admitted to her that he thought Lumon was up to something. Soon afterward, Devon gave birth to the baby. Mark returned to work and learned it would be Helly's first day back. Milchick encouraged him to have kind eyes when greeting her as it would be innie Helly's first time being conscious since the attempt. As she stepped off the elevator, Mark told her they'd gotten rid of everything that might be dangerous to her. He tried to talk to her about the attempt, but she walked away from him. Ms. Casey was assigned to watch her, which annoyed Helly. Mark distracted Ms. Casey by spilling a drinking. While Ms. Casey was gone getting something to clean up, Mark took Helly out of MDR. He tried to ask her how she was. She said that she told her outie she wanted to quit and her outie told her she wasn't a person, so that was bad. Their conversation was interrupted by a cry. They followed it to a room where Wyatt was feeding a goat and surrounded by other goats. He told them that they couldn't take the goats because they weren't ready yet. He told them to go. They left and Helly questioned if the goats were the data they were refining. Mark didn't think it was. He said he knew Helly didn't want to be there, but he was glad she was. Helly then agreed to clean up the map for Mark, because his drawing was bad. Ms. Casey found them and Mark said they were on their way back from a mental health walk. She was relieved they were not hurt.[9] At home, Mark took Petey's phone out of the basement, took out the battery, and threw both separately in his trash can. At work, Mark continued reading The You You Are. Irving said he wanted the whole MDR team to go to O&D together, to unite the two departments as Keir intended. Helly was immediately on board, but Mark was more reluctant, especially after he noticed Ms. Casey was missing. However, after finding out that Ms. Casey had been sent to the Break Room because of it, Mark led his entire team to O&D, in direct defiance of Cobel's removal of their hallway privileges until they met their quota. Burt led them into the storeroom and introduced the two teams. They shared their mutual lack of knowledge of what they were actually working on and decided that Burt and Mark, as the department heads, would reach out to the goat room, the other department they were aware of, and figure out what they knew. Their conversation was interrupted when Milchick came in and returned the MDR team to their department. Cobel was waiting for them and sent Mark to the Break Room. On his way into the Break Room, Mark passed Ms. Casey, who was leaving. He apologized to her as they passed. That night, Mark went on another date with Alexa. His knuckles were bruised and he told her that Lumon had said he jammed his hand while replacing a water cooler jug. They talked about Devon's baby and struggles with breastfeeding and then Mark talked about Gemma. He asked if that was weird, but Alexa said she thought it was healthy not to split his life. When she realized what she'd said, she cringed, but he made a joke about it. After they ate, Mark saw a poster saying June's band was playing nearby and they decided to go The watched as the band performed a song about how much Lumon sucked and then Mark talked to June. When a fight broke out nearby, Mark and Alexa decided to leave. Mark explained that June was the daughter of a co-worker of his who died. Alexa leaned in and kissed him and went home with him. Mark woke up and had a flash of Petey collapsing. He got out of bed and retrieved Petey's phone and the battery. He turned the phone back on and answered it when it rang. He told the person on the other side that he was a friend of Petey and wanted to understand. They arranged to meet at Ganz College. When he got there, Asal Reghabi asked if he'd come alone. He said he had and he used to work at Ganz, which she knew. She told him to come with her.[10] Asal led Mark to a more secluded area, where she told him she'd put the chip in his head and was the only person who could deactivate it. When he stood by his decision to sever, she asked if he ever thought about his innie and how his innie felt about it. Graner came in and told Mark they worked together at Lumon. Before Graner could question him further, Asal came up behind him and hit him with a bat, killing him. Then she had Mark help her move the body. She told him Graner was the head of security at Lumon and gave Mark his key card and had Mark give her Petey's phone. Then she told Mark to go home and get rid of his clothes. Mark collected his clothes in a trash bag. Alexa found him and knew he'd left in the middle of the night. He told her he just felt the need to go for a drive because their relationship was kind of a big deal for him. The next morning, Mark put the trash bag in his outdoor trash can and took the key card with him to work, hiding it in his pocket. When he got to the severed floor, he was surprised to have Milchick greet him. Milchick escorted him to MDR, which now had a door that required a key card to open. Milchick denied that they were trapped. Later that day, Milchick brought in a cart for a Music Dance Experience to celebrate Helly getting to 75%. When Irving pointed out that she was only at 73%, Milchick said they all needed something nice. He put the music on and all of them except Dylan started dancing. The Music Dance Experience abruptly ended when Dylan lunged at Milchick, knocking him over and biting him. Once Milchick left, Dylan explained that he'd been woken up outside Lumon. Helly realized they could do that for themselves and Mark showed them the key card he'd found in his pocket, which he thought was Graner's. They used it to leave MDR. Dylan stayed behind to distract Milchick if he came back. Once they were out, Irving left to go to O&D to check on Burt while Mark and Helly went to the security office. There, they found a binder that had a page about the Overtime Contingency. Helly ripped it out and the left when they saw Cobel coming down an elevator to the floor. Back in MDR, Helly and Mark told Dylan what they'd found. He offered to stay behind at the end of the work day to be the one to activate the OTC. Despite it being meant for two people, he insisted he could do it. When Irving returned, escorted by Milchick, he told them they should burn Lumon to the ground. At home, Mark was drinking when Alexa came over to get her phone, which she'd left there. He tried to assure her he was ready for a relationship, though she didn't believe him. He tried to prove it by ripping up a picture of Gemma, but Alexa left anyway. Once Alexa was gone, Mark gathered the pieces of the picture and taped it back together.[11] Mark, Dylan, Helly, and Irving prepared their plan to activate their innie selves while outside Lumon. This involved pushing to meet their quota, which allowed one of them to have a waffle party. When Helly finished the Siena file, Mark met with Cobel, who celebrated their success, and told her the waffle party would go to Dylan. She told him to report to Wellness for a session before returning to MDR. When he got there, he learned that Ms. Casey had been fired and that her life had consisted of mostly half-hour wellness sessions, which made the day she spent watching Helly the longest she'd ever been awake for and the highlight of her life. She then read him facts about his outie. Mark went back to MDR and told the others about his session and Ms. Casey being fired. He asked if they were sure about their plan, but before they could answer, Milchick came in with their pre-waffle party egg bar social, which they enjoyed. At the party, Mark admitted to Helly that he was scared of getting caught. He just hoped that he had things he cared about on the outside. The party was abruptly ended when Milchick left to attend to a management issue. Before leaving for the day, Mark, Helly, Irving, and Dylan talked over what Dylan would do. Mark said it was important for them to be prepared to wake up in any possible situation, as they had no way of knowing what their outie would be doing. Then they needed to find someone they could trust as quickly as possible and tell them everything as they had no idea how much time they would have. Mark, Helly, and Irving then got on the elevator one at a time. Before Helly left, she stepped out of the elevator to kiss Mark just in case. Mark went home and went to Mrs. Selvig's house to invite her to a party at Ricken and Devon's. Despite being upset, she decided to go in her own car so she could leave if she wanted to. When Mark got to the party, Ricken told him the reading would start in eight minutes and was upset that Mark hadn't brought his own copy to read along. Mark then talked to Devon and said they should talk later about a life change he was pondering. Mrs. Selvig/Cobel overheard this and asked Mark about it. He said he was thinking about quitting because he didn't think he needed severance anymore. Cobel encouraged him to do it, to get away from Lumon.[12] When Mark's Innie was activated, he looked around and tried to figure out where he was. Throughs some conversations, he figured out that Devon was his sister and Ricken his brother-in-law. He told Ricken how much his book meant to him, though Ricken believed he was being sarcastic. Finally, during a reflection break, Mark was able to talk to Devon. Devon suggested going to reporters instead of the police because of Lumon's influence. They had to be careful who they talked to. Mark then remembered to ask why Cobel was there. When he described her, Devon realized she's the woman Devon knew as Mrs. Selvig. Since she had left Eleanor with her, she immediately panicked and went to find her. They searched the house and Mark found her in a room, safe in her car seat. Also in the room, Mark found a picture of himself with Gemma, whom he recognized as Ms. Casey. He took it and ran into the living room, telling Devon she was alive just as his Innie was deactivated.[13] Outie Mark woke up and learned from Devon and Ricken what he'd said. Ricken believed that Mark's comment referred to Eleanor and Mark said he was sure of that as well. Devon was less sure, but went along with them. Shortly thereafter, Milchick arrived, saying he imagined Mark was confused and wanted to answer his questions. He explained what had happened and said he wanted Mark to return to work on Monday. The next morning, Mark had breakfast at Pip's with Devon, where he told her he was going to quit. She asked if he was sure he didn't want to be sure what his innie meant, but he insisted Mark was talking about Eleanor, because he'd seen and identified Gemma's body. He was upset by Devon's assertion that Gemma's death affected her as well and left. Milchick came to his place that night with a gift basket and the offer of a 20% raise for him to return to work. He reminded Mark that he'd undergone the severance procedure to escape the pain of losing Gemma and told him that innie Mark was free of that pain.[14] Mark returned to MDR only to find that the rest of his team was gone and three new refiners: Mark Wilkins, Gwendolyn Y., and Dario Rossi, had been brought in to replace them. Mark refused to accept Milchick's insistence that the others didn't want to return and tried to sabotage the new refiners. He distracted Milchick and ran to Milchick's office, where he used the speaker to appeal directly to the board to bring his team back. Milchick found him and escorted him to the elevator. When he returned to work, his team came in behind him to his delight. Milchick called them all to the new, improved Break Room, where he showed them a video about the uprising and explained that they, not their outies, had a choice to stay or leave. He gave them until the end of the day to decide. Mark told Helly about his desire to find out where Ms. Casey was, as he believed he was his outie's wife and they both decided to stay. As they sat down to get to work, Irving and Dylan joined them, having also decided to stay.[4] Wanting to find out what really happened to Ms. Casey, Mark and Helly made posters with a drawing of her face and made copies to show people from other departments. They took theirs to the goat room, where they found a tunnel to a back room. They crawled through and found a room full of goats. They were confronted by Lorne, who denied making use of the Wellness department and rang a bell, summoning the other employees, who surrounded Mark and Helly. When Helly held up the poster and explained that they were looking for her, Lorne said they decided they were going to send a courier to tell Milchick what they were doing. Mark said they might kill Ms. Casey if they found out and he worried about it happening to others if they stood by and let it happen to Ms. Casey. The goat wranglers decided to let them go without intervening after they showed they didn't have pouches on their bellies. Outside work, Mark counted the seconds it took to get from his car to the elevator to the severed floor. Then he went home and he and Devon tried to figure out how to burn an afterimage onto his cornea that would stay long enough for his innie to see it. He tested this out in his car, but when Asal Reghabi found him, she told him it wouldn't work because the switch dilated his pupils for a second. She told him that the only way to get information in and out of Lumon was reintegration. He was reluctant until she told him his wife was still alive as of the last time Asal saw her. Asal started the reintegration process, showing him the two waves that represented the two halves of him and how he'd make them one again. As she worked, she asked him questions, first about his outie life, but then also about his work at Lumon. He struggled to answer the questions as the waves merged until finally, he remembered waking up at Lumon for the first time with Petey's voice welcoming him.[2] Irving woke up one day in a frozen tundra. He soon met up with Helly, Mark, and Dylan. They found a television, which played a video that explained that they were on a corporate retreat that would last two days, during which they would traverse the terrain of Dieter Eagan National Forest. The answer to the question of who Dieter was is in the fourth appendix of the compliance handbook, which was forbidden on the severed floor. They would follow Kier's path in the forest, which is where he first tamed the four tempers, and they would have help along the way. They saw what that help was when they spotted a figure that looked like Mark across the way pointing them in the right direction. With no other option, they followed his directions. Next, they came across a figure that looked like Helly and they followed her directions to a cave containing the fourth appendix. Helly started reading it and it told the story of Kier and Dieter's journey. They continued walking, following that path. When Irving noticed Mark and Helly talking privately, he asked Mark about it. He admitted he didn't trust Helly because her story of what she saw outside didn't add up. Mark brushed off his concern. As they continued walking, they found a dead animal. Irving suggested eating it because they didn't know if there would be food waiting for them whoever they were going, but they decided not to. Irving admitted that he didn't trust Lumon to take care of them, which caused an argument. Finally, they reached a waterfall and Milchick appeared to tell them they'd followed Kier and Dieter's path and reached Woe's Hollow. He led them to their tents, where Miss Huang had prepared a grill for them to cook their meat. He also told them all about the amenities.Then he read them more of Keir and Dieter's story, ending with Dieter's death. Helly and Mark began laughing and Milchick had their marshmallows thrown into the fire before leaving. Once he was gone, Irving again pestered Helly with questions about what she'd seen on the outside. Helly said he was just upset because he would never see Burt again. Irving took his torch and walked into the forest alone while the rest of them went to bed. Mark went into Helly's tent and they had sex. When they were done, Mark asked her about her outie. She only told him she was someone she didn't like, which made her feel ashamed. While they were talking, Mark glitched for a second, but told her he was okay. The next morning, Mark learned that Irving hadn't come back to the camp the night before and Helly was also missing. They heard yelling and found Irving threatening to drown Helly, saying she wasn't really Helly, but an Eagan. After dunking her under the water a few times, Helly told "Seth" to do it already and Milchick called for someone to remove the Glasgow block. Helly switched back to her innie self and Milchick told Irving he was fired. Dylan apologized for not believing Irving, but Milchick ordered them to cease communication. Then he had Irving walk into the forest and told him it would be like he never existed.[15] With the first phase of reintegration complete, Mark waited for Asal to say they could start the next part. In the meantime, he showed some signs of reintegration sickness and took multiple medications. Asal also began staying with him. When Mark returned to work, he, Helly, and Dylan were told Irving wouldn't be coming back. He also to them that Helena Eagan had come to work among them to learn their grievances like Kier had done before her. When they returned to MDR, they found all traces of Irving erased, including his work station. Dylan asked for a funeral and Milchick agreed to arrange it while they worked on their files. At the funeral, Milchick gave them a few seconds to remember Irving and had Dylan give a eulogy. Then he gave them a melon shaped like Irving's head to enjoy. Mark left soon after that and Helly followed him. He admitted that he didn't trust that she was Helly and couldn't continue the search for Ms. Casey because Lumon knew about it and was watching everything they did. Mark went back to MDR, where he worked on Cold Harbor until he got it to 85% completion. When he saw it was 5:54, he got up and left for the day. Milchick stopped the elevator and got on. He asked if the funeral had helped Mark and Mark placated him by saying yes and agreeing to put everything behind them. Milchick finally let Mark leave. Back at home, Mark found Asal in his basement, looking through Gemma's things for something to rattle his memories. He asked when they could continue the process and she said possibly the next day. When they came across a box of cremated remains, Mark asked who it was. Asal told him Lumon had someone at the morgue on payroll. When he asked if they were hurting Gemma, Asal admitted she didn't know. Mark went to go upstairs, but had flashes of memories of Ms. Casey reading facts about his outie to him during a wellness session. Then he remembered being in a hall at Lumon and seeing Ms. Casey there.[16] Mark told Asal what he'd seen and asked what Lumon was doing to her. Asal said she didn't know but she knew that Gemma was essential to them. Mark said that he'd spent a lot of time bargaining after Gemma's death, thinking about things he would change to have more time with her and was not facing that being a real possibility. At work, Dylan told Mark and Helly about a map he'd found in the break room. They were upset with him for leaving it there. Helly said she had a hall pass and offered to use it to go get the map. Mark later told Helly about Milchick threatening him in the elevator. Helly felt it was part of a plan to drive a wedge between them to keep them from working together. Mark also confessed that he'd had sex with Helly's outie believing she was Helly. Helly said it was okay, that he thought it was her, but then left. When she returned, she told Mark that it sucked that Helena got to have sex with him and she didn't. He offered to describe it to her, but she said she didn't want Helena's memory. She wanted her own. They slipped away and found an empty room, where they had sex. On the way back to MDR, Helly asked Mark if it was different with her. Mark responded by pressing her against the wall and kissing her. When he pulled back, she told him he was bleeding. They went to Miss Huang, who had Mark hold pressure on his nose and tried to figure out the cause. The bleeding quickly stopped. While Miss Huang took his blood pressure, Mark flashed between his life at Lumon and his life outside. When he settled, he found himself in his basement. Asal said it was a good sign that he felt he'd just been at Lumon, as it was a sign that his two selves were merging. She had the idea to flood his chip to make the process faster, but when she tried to do that, Mark decided he'd had enough and refused to allow it. He left to go get some food. While he was at a restaurant, Helena Eagan approached him and talked to him about his work and the Overtime Contingency he'd experienced. This led Mark to believe that Lumon was onto him and he rushed home and told Asal he wanted to continue right away. Asal opened his head and flooded his chip. He immediately felt the effects. When his sister knocked on the door, Asal told him not to answer, but he ignored her, saying his sister could see his car in the driveway and knew he was home. Devon said she had an idea for another way to get a message into Lumon. Mark told her he was trying something else, but refused to tell her what it was. He then had more flashes of memory and collapsed to the floor, convulsing.[17] Mark remained unconscious while Asal and Devon looked over him, making sure he was okay. Asal told Devon that Mark was on a journey. When Mark finally woke up, Devon asked where he'd gone.[3] Devon repeatedly tried calling Cobel. When Cobel finally answered, Devon told her about Mark reintegrating. Cobel had her put Mark on the phone and asked him to tell her everything.[18] They arranged a meeting with Cobel. When she showed up, Devon asked her to take them to the cabin so they could talk to Mark's innie. She said it wasn't safe and it would be better to wait until dark. She had Mark call Milchick and feign illness to explain why he wasn't coming in to work. Once it was dark, they hid Mark in the truck bed, Devon pretended to be pregnant, and Cobel drove them to the birthing retreat, where she used coded language to get them access to the cabin. Once they were there, Mark's innie activated and Devon brought him to talk to Cobel. Devon asked if he remembered the last words he said to her and he say, "She's alive."[19] Cobel asked if he'd finished Cold Harbor and when he said no, she said that was good, because it meant Gemma was still alive and they could get her out of Lumon. She was surprised when he told her he knew of the Exports Hall from Irving's drawings. She then explained to him what he would have to do in order to get Gemma out. It involved cooperation between him and his outie, so they played a message his outie had recorded for him and waited while the two of them had a back and forth conversation. When they couldn't agree, as innie Mark wasn't convinced he would benefit as much as his outie, Cobel asked to speak to innie Mark alone. She told him that the numbers were his wife and every filed he'd completed created a new innie for her. Cold Harbor was the last of those and after he completed it, he'd be done at Lumon as he'd served his purpose. She also told him that he and Helly wouldn't have a happy ending because he meant nothing to Helena. Mark responded by telling Devon and Cobel to warn Mark against activating him again before his next shift at Lumon. Innie Mark next woke up at Lumon. When he got to MDR, he found a note congratulating him for completing his 25th file. He and Helly went to the work stations and he explained to her what he'd learned about Gemma. She wasn't sure if they could trust Cobel, but he said she seemed different. When Mark got to the end of his file, Helly slipped him the directions and they watched as the lights went out and a performance celebrating his success started. When Mark said he needed to leave, so he could rescue Gemma, Helly created a distraction by stealing Milchick's radio. Mark ran out of MDR and made his way to the testing floor. He found a door, but was unable to open it. His banging on the door was heard by Drummond, who attacked Mark. Lorne saved Mark by putting a captive bolt pistol to Drummond's head, ready to kill him. Mark stopped her and ended up taking Drummond with him to lead him to the testing floor. In the elevator, he told Drummond to lead him to Gemma, but when his outie activated, his body tensed and he fired the gun, killing Drummond. Mark, now covered in Drummond's blood, went to find Gemma. He found the Cold Harbor room and used his blood-soaked tie to get into the room. There, he found Gemma's new innie. He asked her to trust him and led her out of the room, which activated her outie. The two of them ran back to the elevator together, where they hugged and kissed. They were kissed when her Ms. Casey innie and his innie activated, creating an awkward situation for them. Mark then led Gemma to the exit door and told her to do through. Once she did, her outie activated and she called for Mark to come with her. He hesitated and when Helly appeared at the other end of the hallway, he ignored Gemma's begging and went to Helly. The two of them took off down the hallway, running hand in hand.[5] Personality[] Outie Mark, even two years on, still struggles with the grief of losing his wife, drinking heavily most nights to dissociate from his depression. Gemma's death has incited self-destructive and spiteful habits in Mark, as he often tries to avoid other people and even unintentionally sabotages his relationships due to his avoidant personality. His grief was so great that Mark believed becoming severed would act as a way to heal, but in truth, Mark was simply cutting his lifespan in half and still living with the same pain every day. Mark is also ignorant and callous in his views of the Severance procedure and its ethics. He never actually acknowledged his Innie as his own person and even disregarded his relationship with Helly R. when attempting to enlist his help against Lumon. In his own words, Mark isn't a bad person, but he's not a nice person. For most of his two years at Lumon, Innie Mark was a content, hardworking Lumon employee who abided by the company's ethos and beliefs dilligently. A change began when Petey vanished from Lumon without warning, inspiring Mark to begin questioning Lumon's shady activities, though he wasn't fully swayed until Helly R. came into existence on the severed floor. Slowly, Helly challenged the by-the-book life Mark had been living until he began to openly question the mysterious nature of their work for Lumon, culminating in him joining MDR to hijack the Overtime Contingency and spread word to the outside. However, Mark's spirit was crushed in the aftermath of the ORTBO and Helena's impersonation of Helly, causing him to become anti-social and indifferent to Irving's death and his blossoming romance with Helly. The two were able to reconnect and soon fell in love, though it was prevented from becoming something more as Mark was thrown into his Outie's plan to infiltrate Lumon and rescue Gemma from captivity, facing the difficult revelation that he and all the other Innies would die after she was freed and the company exposed. After seeing his Outie's indifference to his own life and Cobel's confession that Lumon would dispose of the Innies regardless, Mark refused to help them and wanted to live with Helly, a future they both quietly accepted was impossible. Realizing that he was finished either way, Mark decided to help and, after almost being killed in the process, saved Gemma and led her to her freedom. Faced with non-existence and never seeing Helly again, Mark chose not to leave Lumon with Gemma, instead fleeing into the depths of Lumon with Helly in a final act of freedom. Physical Description[] Mark is a middle aged man with white skin and brown eyes. He has dark brown hair that is straight, which he keeps short in the front and longer in the back. He often looks tired or hung over, due to his late night wine habit. He dresses formally for work, often in a suit, but is always in casual clothing outside of work, usually jeans and long sleeved shirts. Relationships[] Gemma Scout[] Mark and Gemma had a deeply special and romantic marriage for four years. For all intents and purposes, they were perfect for each other. The couple enjoyed a quiet and loving life together as Gemma, in Devon's words, made Mark wonderful and less of a bitter person. Their marriage was strained after Gemma's tragic miscarriage and thrice-failed IVF treatments, causing Mark to start slowly ignoring her and avoid social events together. When Gemma was believed to have died in a car accident, Mark's immense grief made him destroy himself, eventually choosing to undergo the severance procedure in a desperate attempt to escape his agony. Two years on from her death, Mark still grieved Gemma deeply, drinking heavily almost every night and even barring himself from a potential new relationship due to not healing properly. When Mark ultimately discovered that she was alive on the severed floor, he was willing to do anything to reunite with her, agreeing to the reintegration procedure immediately. Helly R.[] Dylan G.[] Irving B.[] Quotes[] | Notes and Trivia[] - Mark lives in Baird Creek in Lumon-subsidized housing in the city of Kier. - His employee number is 4502, although his employee code on his ID badge reads 08-927.[7] - Mark has worked at Lumon for approximately two years, since just after his wife allegedly died. - Mark S. received a glass cube portrait of himself as a reward early in his refining career for his work on the Allentown file. - The watch worn by Outie Mark is a Vostok Komandirskie 341307, and the watch worn by Innie Mark is a Bijouone B001. Both watches were supplied by Severance prop master Catherine Miller. - The word "komandirskie" in Russian translates to commander. Given that his wife taught Russian literature at Ganz College, it is likely she gifted him the watch. - The character is named after Mark Erickson, the father of Severance creator Dan Erickson. - His license was issued on April 24, 2020. - Mark drives a light-colored 1997 Volvo S90. - His kindergarten teacher was named Mrs. Lustgarten.[2] - He can parallel park in less than twenty seconds.[16] - He can roller-skate with grace.[16] - He pays all his gas and electric bills within three business days.[16] - He listens to music while shaving, but not while showering.[16] - He prefers two scoops of ice cream in a serving, but they must be the same flavor.[16] - He once captured a butterfly.[16] - He can set up a tent in under three minutes.[12] - He knows a beautiful rock from a plain one.[12] Gallery[] Promotional[] Screenshots[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | | Season 2 | ||||| | #01 | "Hello, Ms. Cobel" | #05 | "Trojan's Horse" | #09 | "The After Hours" | | #02 | "Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig" | #06 | "Attila" | #10 | "Cold Harbor" | | #03 | "Who Is Alive?" | #07 | "Chikhai Bardo" | || | #04 | "Woe's Hollow" | #08 | "Sweet Vitriol" (voice) | References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 Good News About Hell, 1x01 - ↑ 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 Who Is Alive?, 2x03 - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Chikhai Bardo, 2x07 - ↑ 4.0 4.1 Hello, Ms. Cobel, 2x01 - ↑ 5.0 5.1 Cold Harbor, 2x10 - ↑ 6.0 6.1 In Perpetuity, 1x03 - ↑ 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ The You You Are, 1x04 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ 12.0 12.1 12.2 What's for Dinner?, 1x08 - ↑ The We We Are, 1x09 - ↑ Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig, 2x02 - ↑ Woe's Hollow, 2x04 - ↑ 16.0 16.1 16.2 16.3 16.4 16.5 16.6 Trojan's Horse, 2x05 - ↑ Attila, 2x06 - ↑ Sweet Vitriol, 2x08 - ↑ The After Hours, 2x09


--- [Mark Scout - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Mark Scout | | | Also Known As | Mark S., Milady, Flip | |---|---| | Portrayed By | Adam Scott | | Occupation | Macrodata Refinement Chief at Lumon Industries | | Status | Partially/Fully Reintegrated, Alive | | First Appearance | Good News About Hell | Mark Scout (born April 3, 1978) is a former college professor of history, specializing in World War I [1], at the college in Ganz. He now works at Lumon Industries, first as a Senior Macrodata Refiner and then as Macrodata Refinement Chief following a promotion after his coworker Petey abruptly left. Mark has worked at Lumon for about two years,[2] since just after he was told his wife Gemma Scout died in a car accident. His employee code is 4502,[3] and the employee number on his ID badge reads 08-927.[4] Due to his severed status, Mark is not sure what he does at Lumon but believes he is a type of corporate historian, working in the archives division.[5] He lives alone as a widower in a house, #34, in Baird Creek Manor that is subsidized by the company. His neighbor is Mrs. Selvig. He has two betta goldfish in a bifurcated tank, one red, one blue, and does not change lightbulbs when they burn out. He has a better grasp of the schedule for trash and recycling bins than his neighbor. All mementoes of his marriage and Gemma were shoved down into the basement, leaving his home much more sterile in appearance than it was when they lived together in Ganz. She also taught at the college there, and they enjoyed a close relationship with his sister Devon and her husband Ricken. Mark and Gemma’s wedding photo.[6] Mark has one sibling, a younger sister named Devon, who is married to Ricken Hale. His relationship with Devon is very close; with Ricken, less so. Ricken says Mark and Devon’s father was “a misdiagnosed alcoholic,”[7] with his use of the past tense suggesting their father—whose name is not mentioned—is deceased. Their mother was Fern Scout and she had brown eyes.[8] When Mark was a child, he left the gate open which resulted in the death of their dog, and he still carries that shame. Mark met his wife, Gemma, giving blood at Ganz College where they were both professors. They lived in a beautiful home in Ganz where they tried to conceive a child via fertility treatments from the Butzemann Fertility Center. They had been married for four years[9] when she disappeared. She was reportedly killed in a car accident, but that was exposed as a lie during the Overtime contingency. He believed that he identified her body at the hospital. Following the tragedy, he quit teaching and took a job on the Severed Floor of Lumon to escape his grief, at least for part of the day. At night, alone, he would drink until he passed out, unless Devon tried to pull him out of his shell. Over time, Mark’s Innie and Outie both grew more distrustful of Lumon Industries, and Mark’s Outie even considers quitting. After meeting Peter Kilmer, Innie name Petey, as an Outie, he takes Petey in out of pity and likely curiosity since Petey reports he is Mark's best friend and needs someone to know what goes on at Lumon. Later he attends Petey's funeral and sees Petey's daughter June's band, Fissureman perform “Fuck You, Lumon.” When Irving finds a copy of Ricken's latest book on the Severed Floor, Mark takes to reading it in secret, and it completely opens up his world. Since Gemma's ostensible death, Mark briefly dated Alexa, shared vessels with Helena Eagan and her Innie Helly R., despite having a fairly grumpy and inflexible personality. Asal Reghabi performed the Severance Procedure on Mark[10] since she also originally inserted the chip inside his brain. According to her, she is the only person who can deactivate the chip.[11] She performed the Reintegration protocol on Mark over a series of sessions in his basement,[12][13] then “flooded” the chip to speed up the process,[14] resulting in him seemingly having a seizure. Time will tell if Mark's reintegration will be more successful than when she did it to Peter Kilmer. Mark S. finally completed the Cold Harbor file, triggering a series of events meant to culminate in a key step forward in Kier's grand agendum. As a result of the celebratory hullaballoo, he is able to kill Mr. Drummond, rescue an innocent goat, and find his Outie's wife before Lumon disposed of her. Outie Mark Scout finally reunited with Gemma on the Testing Floor for a few brief moments until they returned to the Severed Floor, where their innies Mark. S and Ms. Casey, took over the rescue effort. Mark S. did not follow Gemma into the stairwell to freedom, preferring to remain in his innie state with Helly R. whom he loves. Who are you?Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (00:14) Thank you for taking the welcome survey. I can sense that the questions made you feel afraid or disoriented. Well, the good news is, you’re at an orientation.Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (21:08) Every time you find yourself here, it’s because you chose to come back.Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (32:39) Your house smells like pregnancy.Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (32:39) There was a businessman in the yard last night.Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (48:00) As a reminder, Post-it Notes are not to be put on faces. They clog your Outie’s pores.Season 1, Episode 3, In Perpetuity (14:08) I mean, I’m 99% sure there was no coup.Season 1, Episode 3, In Perpetuity (33:12) The work is mysterious and important.Season 1, Episode 4, The You You Are (44:41) We found a department the opposite way from here that’s, well, raising baby goats.Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (16:57) Why won’t they tell us what we’re doing here? What-What are they so afraid of? If the Eagan philosophy is illumination above all… then why doesn’t that include us? Why are we down here still working in the dark?Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (17:54) We’re not children, Mr. Milchick. We didn’t do anything wrong.Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (19:24) I’m not a bad person.Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (32:88) My wife was extraordinary. My wife was allergic to nutmeg. And when she sneezed, she always sneezed twice. My wife liked other people’s dogs. My wife thought cardigans looked ridiculous. I loved all these things about her…equally.Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (47:31) Because we’re people, not parts of people. Even with what little they gave us, these are our lives. No one gets to just turn you off.Season 1, Episode 8, What’s for Dinner? (14:31) You’re easy to pretend to care about.Season 1, Episode 8, What’s for Dinner? (25:43) It’s a nice name. Gemma.Season 1, Episode 9, The We We Are (28:38) She’s alive!Season 1, Episode 9, The We We Are (38:31) Please. They're my friends! You can't just make them disappear! Please!Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (18:49) I ate your shitty fucking cookies.Season 2, Episode 2, Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig (43:02) I wanna see my wife.Season 2, Episode 3, Who Is Alive? (48:07) I know, but she seemed different. I mean, she's the same, but… like, different same.Season 2, Episode 10, Cold Harbor (27:46)


--- [Mark Scout - Wikipedia] ---
Mark Scout and Mark S. are fictional characters and the main protagonists of the Apple TV+ series Severance, portrayed by Adam Scott. 
An employee at Lumon Industries, former history professor Mark Scout underwent "severance"—a medical procedure that ensures they retain no memories of the outside world while at work, and have no recollection of their job once they leave, essentially creating a new consciousness known as an "innie". Scout's "innie", Mark S., works on Lumon's "severed floor" with other severed workers.
Scott has received praise for his performance; he was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Lead Actor In A Drama Series at the 74th and 77th Primetime Emmy Awards in 2022 and 2025.


--- [Severance cast: Adam Scott and Britt Lower star in season 2 | Radio Times] ---
Severance cast: Full list of stars joining Adam Scott and Britt Lower in season 2 Ready to check in for another shift at Lumon Industries? *Warning: Spoilers ahead for Severance season 2.* Severance season 2 has come to a dramatic end, which means all eyes are on season 3. The good news is it has been confirmed! The bad news is that we'll have to wait a little for it to land on Apple TV+ – though hopefully not as long as we did between seasons 1 and 2. The third instalment is also expected to follow the same group of colourful Lumon Industries employees who have undergone the severance procedure that takes work/life balance to a whole new – and disturbing – level. Adam Scott is expected to continue to leads the charge as Mark Scout, joined by the likes of Britt Lower, Zach Cherry and John Turturro. With Gemma playing a huge part in that tense finale, it's likely we'll see Dichen Lachman return too, alongside some of this season's newer additions. They include Gwendoline Christie, Merritt Wever, Alia Shawkat, and even A-Lister Keanu Reeves, who voices the Lumon building in episode 1. Want to know more about them? Read on for everything you need to know about the cast of Severance. Severance season 2 cast: Full list of actors and characters The following stars feature in the Severance cast for season 2. - Adam Scott as Mark Scout - Britt Lower as Helly Riggs - Zach Cherry as Dylan George - John Turturro as Irving Bailiff - Tramell Tillman as Seth Milchick - Patricia Arquette as Harmony Cobel - Jen Tullock as Devon Scout-Hale - Dichen Lachman as Ms Casey/Gemma Scout - Michael Chernus as Ricken Hale - Christopher Walken as Burt Goodman - Sarah Bock as Miss Huang - Alia Shawkat as Gwendolyn Y - Bob Balaban as Mark W - Stefano Carannante as Dario R - John Noble as Fields - Gwendoline Christie as Lorne - Merritt Wever as Gretchen - Ólafur Darri Ólafsson as Mr Drummond - Robby Benson as Dr Mauer - Keanu Reeves as the voice of the Lumon building - Sydney Cole Alexander as Natalie - Claudia Robinson as Felicia - Anthoula Kasimatides as Florence - Brian Rock as Wyatt - Jared Johnston as Goat Man - Yul Vasquez as Petey - Sandra Bernhard as Nurse - Jane Alexander as Sissy Cobel - James Le Gros as Hampton Here is all you need to know about the major players... Adam Scott plays Mark Scout Who is Mark Scout? Mark Scout is a severed worker in the Macrodata Refinement division at Lumon Industries, and the boss of the department. His Outie chose to be severed because he was grieving the death of his wife. However, when his Innie and the rest of the department rebelled and woke themselves up in the outside world, he learned that his wife is actually alive, and working at Lumon as Ms Casey. What else has Adam Scott been in? Scott is best known for his roles in series including Parks and Recreation, The Good Place, Big Little Lies, Party Down and Loot. Meanwhile, he has also had roles in films such as The Aviator, Knocked Up, Step Brothers, Black Mass and Madame Web. Britt Lower plays Helly Riggs/Helena Eagan Who is Helly Eagan? Helly, known as Helly R when an Innie, is a severed worker in the Macrodata Refinement division at Lumon. She later learned that her Outie is Helena Eagan, the daughter of Lumon CEO Jame Eagan, and she underwent the procedure to build public support for severance. During season 2, fans have developed a terrifying theory that Helena has replaced her Innie, Helly, on the severed floor. As for if that's got any legs, only time will tell! What else has Britt Lower been in? Lower has had roles in series including Unforgettable, Man Seeking Woman, Future Man and American Horror Stories, as well as films such as Sisters. Zach Cherry plays Dylan George Who is Dylan George? Dylan is a severed worker in the Macrodata Refinement division at Lumon, who at the start of the series is content in his work and is confident and self-assured. However, once he learned his Outie has children, he turned on the company, and wanted to find out the truth about severance. What else has Zach Cherry been in? Cherry has had roles in series including You, Crashing, Succession, Our Cartoon President, Most Dangerous Game, Duncanville and Fallout, as well as in films such as The Big Sick, Spider-Man: Homecoming, Isn't It Romantic and Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings. John Turturro plays Irving Bailiff Who is Irving Bailiff? Irving is a severed worker in the Macrodata Refinement division at Lumon, who is a stickler for company policy. He is drawn to another severed worker, Burt, and when Burt retires, he joins the rest of his department in rebelling. His Innie found that he Outie was painting black corridors over and over, and found that Burt's Outie is already in a relationship with another man. What else has John Turturro been in? Turturro is known for his roles in films including Do the Right Thing, Miller's Crossing, Barton Fink, The Big Lebowski, Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?, Transformers, Cars 2, The Batman and Guillermo Del Toro's Pinocchio. He has also appeared in series such as The Night Of and Mr & Mrs Smith. Tramell Tillman plays Seth Milchick Who is Seth Milchick? Mr Milchick is the manager on the severed floor at Lumon, who has often shown a willingness to keep the employees locked up, and in inhumane conditions. He is promoted in season 2. What else has Tramell Tillman been in? Tillman has had roles in series including Dietland, Godfather of Harlem, Hunters and Hit-Monkey. Patricia Arquette plays Harmony Cobel Who is Harmony Cobel? Ms Cobel is the ex-manager of the severed floor at Lumon. Throughout season 1, she was also spying on Mark while living as his neighbour, Mrs Selvis. Towards the end of the season she was fired by the company's board, but was the first to realise the plan of the team in Macrodata Refinement. What else has Patricia Arquette been in? Arquette is best-known for her roles in films including Lost Highway, Holes, Boyhood and Toy Story 4, as well as series such as Medium, Boardwalk Empire, CSI: Cyber, Escape at Dannemora and High Desert. Jen Tullock plays Devon Scout-Hale Who is Devon Scout-Hale? Devon is Mark's sister. During season 2, she's seen helping Mark to try and find out the truth about what's happening at Lumon. What else has Jen Tullock been in? Tullock has had roles in series such as Disengaged, The Coop and Perry Mason, as well as films including Spirited and Cora Bora. Dichen Lachman plays Ms Casey/Gemma Scout Who is Ms Casey/Gemma Scout? Ms Casey is the Wellness counsellor on the severed floor. She was fired towards the end of season 1, after which Mark's Innie found out she is in fact Gemma, the wife of Mark's Outtie who was believed to be dead. What else has Dichen Lachman been in? Lachman has had roles in series including Neighbours, Dollhouse, Torchwood, Last Resort, The 100, Shameless, The Last Ship, Supergirl, Altered Carbon, Agent of SHIELD and Animal Kingdom. She has also appeared in films such as Raya and the Last Dragon, Jurassic World: Dominion and Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes. Michael Chernus plays Ricken Hale Who is Ricken Hale? Ricken is Mark's brother-in-law, and the author of a number of self-help books. What else has Michael Chernus been in? Chernus has had roles in series including Mercy, Manhattan, Patriot, Easy, Orange is the New Black, Tommy, Ramy and Dead Ringers, as well as films such as Men in Black 3, The Bourne Legacy, Captain Phillips, Spider-Man: Homecoming and A Complete Unknown. Christopher Walken plays Burt Goodman Who is Burt Goodman? Burt is a severed employee and the head of the Optics and Design division. His Innie is drawn to Irving, but his Outtie is already in a relationship with another man. What else has Christopher Walken been in? Walken is best-known for his roles in films including Annie Hall, The Deer Hunter, Heaven's Gate, Batman Returns, Pulp Fiction, Antz, Sleepy Hollow, Catch Me If You Can, Wedding Crashers, Click, Hairspray, Seven Psychopaths, Eddie the Eagle, The Jungle Book and Dune: Part Two. He has also had roles in series including The Outlaws. Sarah Bock plays Miss Huang Who is Miss Huang? Miss Huang is the new Deputy Manager of the Severed floor in season 2. What else has Sarah Bock been in? Bock previously had a role in the 2022 film Bruiser, and has previously done voice work in some animated children's projects. Gwendoline Christie plays Lorne Who is Lorne? Lorne is the supervisor in the Mammalians Nurturable department. While she initially seems scared of Helly and Mark, she eventually helps them during their search for Ms Casey. What else has Gwendoline Christie been in? Christie is best-known for playing Brienne of Tarth in Game of Thrones and Captain Phasma in the Star Wars sequel trilogy. She has also had roles in The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2, The Personal History of David Copperfield, The Sandman and Wednesday. Karen Aldridge plays Reghabi Who is Reghabi? Reghabi is a former Lumon scientist who claims to have implanted Mark's severance chip – and who helped his friend Petey to reintegrate. What else has Karen Aldridge been in? Aldridge previously starred as Zelmare Roulette in Fargo, Dr Kendra Perrington in Chicago Fire, and Naimah Watts in 61st Street. Sydney Cole Alexander plays Natalie Who is Natalie? Natalie is the Board Liason for Lumon. What else has Sydney Cole Alexander been in? Sydney Cole Alexander has been in films like A Neighbour's Vendetta and TV series like Limitless. Claudia Robinson plays Felicia Who is Felicia? Felicia is an employee in the Optics and Design department, who used to work with Burt. What else has Claudia Robinson been in? Robinson is known for various roles, including Christophine in the film adaptation of Wide Sargasso Sea, and TV series including Gotham, Orange is the New Black and Law & Order. John Noble plays Fields Who is Fields? Fields is Outtie Burt's husband. What else has John Noble been in? Noble is known for his roles in films including The Lord of the Rings trilogy and The Conjuring: The Devil: Made Me Do It, as well as series such as All Saints, Home and Away, Fringe, Sleepy Hollow, Legends of Tomorrow, Elementary, Star Trek: Prodigy and Twilight of the Gods. Merritt Wever plays Gretchen Who is Gretchen? Gretcher is Outtie Dylan's wife, who has been growing close with Innie Dylan during their in-office meetings. What else has Merritt Wever been in? Wever has had roles in films including Michael Clayton, Birdman (Or the Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance) and Marriage Story, as well as series such as New Girl, Nurse Jackie, The Walking Dead and Tiny Beautiful Things. Ólafur Darri Ólafsson plays Mr Drummond Who is Mr Drummond? Mr Drummond is a major, high-ranking figure within Lumon. What else has Ólafur Darri Ólafsson been in? Ólafsson has had many roles of Icelandic series and films, as well as appearing in American and British productions such as The Secret Life of Walter Mitty, True Detective, Zoolander 2, The BFG, The Missing, Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald, Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga, Boat Story and The Tourist. Robby Benson plays Dr Mauer Who is Dr Mauer? Dr Mauer is a doctor at Lumon who has been running experiments on Gemma. What else has Robby Benson been in? Benson played the Beast in 1991's Beauty and the Beast, while he has also had roles in Prince Valiant and American Dreams amongst other series and films. Sandra Bernhard plays Nurse Who is Nurse? The nurse has been observing Gemma at Lumon since her apparent death. What else has Sandra Bernhard been in? Bernhard has had roles in films such as The King of Comedy and Zoolander, as well as series including Hercules, Brooklyn Nine-Nine, 2 Broke Girls, Roseanne, Pose and American Horror Story. Jane Alexander plays Celestine 'Sissy' Cobel Who is Celestine 'Sissy' Cobel? Celestine, known as Sissy, is Harmony Cobel's aunt, who was also an employee at Lumon. What else has Jane Alexander been in? Alexander has had roles in films such as All the President's Men, Kramer vs Kramer, The Cider House Rules, The Ring and Terminator Salvation, as well as series including The Blacklist, The Good Wife, Elementary and Tales from the Loop. James Le Gros plays Hampton Who is Hampton? Hampton is an old friend of Harmony Cobel's. What else has James Le Gros been in? Le Gros has had roles in films including Point Break, Countdown and Enemy of the State, as well as series such as ER, Ally McBeal, Mercy, Grey's Anatomy, Girls, Revenge, Justified, Hunters and Blue Bloods. Alia Shawkat plays Gwendolyn Y Who is Gwendolyn Y? A new member of the MDR team. What else has Alia Shawkat been in? Shawkat is best-known for playing Maeby in Arrested Development, while she has also appeared in series including State of Grace, Transparent, Big Mouth, Search Party, Summer Camp Island, The Old Man and Star Wars: Skeleton Crew. Shawkat's film appearances include roles in Whip It, The Oranges, Green Room, 20th Century Women, First Cow and Blink Twice. Bob Balaban plays Mark W Who is Mark W? A new member of the MDR team. What else has Bob Balaban been in? Balaban is known for his roles in films including Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Gosford Park, Capote, Lady in the Water, Moonrise Kingdom, The Monuments Men, The Grand Budapest Hotel, Isle of Dogs, The French Dispatch and Asteroid City. He has also appeared in series including Seinfeld, Friends and Condor. Stefano Carannante plays Dario R Who is Dario R? A new member of the MDR team. What else has Stefano Carannante been in? Carannante has previously appeared in Hey Joe and an episode of Blue Bloods. Severance season 2 premiered on Friday 17th January on Apple TV+ with new episodes airing weekly. Season 1 is available now. Sign up for Apple TV+ here. Check out more of our Sci-Fi coverage or visit our TV Guide and Streaming Guide to see what's on tonight. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to The Radio Times Podcast. Authors James Hibbs is a Drama Writer for Radio Times, covering programmes across both streaming platforms and linear channels. He previously worked in PR, first for a B2B agency and subsequently for international TV production company Fremantle. He possesses a BA in English and Theatre Studies and an NCTJ Level 5 Diploma in Journalism.
