=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jo Ann Hardesty - Wikipedia]
Jo Ann A. Hardesty (formerly Bowman, [2][3] born October 15, 1957) is an American Democratic politician in the U.S. state of Oregon who served as a Portland City commissioner from 2019 to 2022. She previously served in the Oregon House of Representatives from 1995 until 2001. Hardesty was the first African American woman and first minority woman to serve on the council. A longtime activist for ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jo_Ann_Hardesty

[Jo Ann Hardesty, 1st Woman Of Color On Portland City Council, Takes ...]
Jan 2, 2019 · Portland Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty took the oath of office Wednesday, becoming the first African-American woman to serve on the City Council.
URL: https://www.opb.org/news/article/oregon-jo-ann-hardesty-first-african-american-woman-portland-city-council/

[Jo Ann Hardesty - Portland City Commissioner 2019-2023 - Oregon Mental ...]
A summary of major accomplishments and notable moments during Commissioner Hardesty's first year in office: 2019 - 2020. During this time Commissioner Hardesty was assigned to oversee Portland Fire & Rescue, Bureau of Emergency Communication (BOEC), and the Bureau of Emergency Management (PBEM). Commissioner Hardesty is sworn in as the First Black Woman Ever Elected to the Portland City ...
URL: https://www.oregonarchive.org/32551-2/

[Jo Ann Hardesty sworn in as first black woman to serve on Portland City ...]
Jan 2, 2019 · The move is historic, because she’s now the first black woman to serve on the Portland City Council. When she arrived in Council Chambers, she made the rounds.
URL: https://www.kgw.com/article/news/politics/jo-ann-hardesty-sworn-in-as-first-black-woman-to-serve-on-portland-city-council/283-38fed24a-22b1-464b-9320-d0fc074461bd

[Jo Ann Hardesty Sworn In As Portland's First African American Woman on ...]
Jan 2, 2019 · Dozens of Portlanders crammed into city council chambers this morning hoping to catch a glimpse of history being made with the swearing in of Jo Ann Hardesty, the first Black woman to serve on ...
URL: https://www.portlandmercury.com/news/2019/01/02/25385114/jo-ann-hardesty-sworn-in-as-portlands-first-african-american-woman-on-city-council


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty - Wikipedia] ---
Jo Ann A. Hardesty (formerly Bowman, born October 15, 1957) is an American Democratic politician in the U.S. state of Oregon who served as a Portland City commissioner from 2019 to 2022. She previously served in the Oregon House of Representatives from 1995 until 2001.
Hardesty was the first African American woman and first minority woman to serve on the council. A longtime activist for racial justice and other progressive policy issues, she is well known as an advocate for police reform and defunding. In 2021, Portland Police Bureau's internal investigation concluded their officers leaked a false accusation that she was responsible for a hit and run in an act of retaliation. Hardesty faced several controversies during her tenure in office, such as her handling of personal credit card debt, vacation time, and placing a call to 9-1-1 over a dispute with a Lyft driver.
Hardesty stood for the November 2022 election runoff to serve a second term, but lost the seat to challenger Rene Gonzalez.


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty, 1st Woman Of Color On Portland City Council, Takes ...] ---
Portland Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty took the oath of office Wednesday, becoming the first African-American woman to serve on the City Council. Hardesty told a crowd of hundreds of supporters and colleagues in City Hall that she started her day with a commute on a MAX train, reflecting on the two African-American commissioners who preceded her: Charles Jordan and Dick Bogle. "It’s been 25-ish years since an African-American has had the privilege of serving the people of Portland," she said. "What I see all around me is a city filled with people with hope, and I don’t take that hope lightly.” In a nod to the historic moment, Justice Adrienne Nelson led a brief ceremony. Nelson is the first African-American to serve on the Oregon Supreme Court. Mayor Ted Wheeler, Police Chief Danielle Outlaw and Fire Chief Mike Meyers were in the crowd, alongside many of Hardesty's longtime supporters, such as homeless activist Ibrahim Mubarak and civil rights activist James Posey. Related: Portland Voters Elect Hardesty As 1st Woman Of Color To City Council Portland is the only large American city that elects commissioners citywide, instead of by district or ward. Courts have struck down such at-large election systems in other cities — including a recent case involving the Yakima City Council — because they can dilute the power of minority voters. In Portland, very few people of color — or residents of poorer neighborhoods like East Portland — have been elected to the Council. Hardesty, who lives in East Portland’s Gateway neighborhood, is a Navy veteran, civil rights activist and consultant who served in the state Legislature from 1997 to 2000. On the campaign trail, Hardesty often downplayed the historic nature of the election. Her chief opponent, Loretta Smith, is also an African-American woman. Instead, Hardesty focused on her long record as an activist and her powerful grassroots campaign. “My campaign is not because I want to be the first black woman on Portland’s city council," she said at one of the final candidate debates. “It’s all about the service I’ve provided to the city, for free many times, because I love Portland,” she said. In Portland’s unique commission form of government, City Council members also manage city services. Mayor Wheeler has assigned Hardesty four bureaus to oversee: Portland Fire and Rescue, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Communications and the Fire and Police Disability & Retirement Fund. Hardesty’s election could mean a further shift to the left for the City Council, particularly on public safety issues, posing a challenge for Wheeler, who also serves as police commissioner. Hardesty has pledged to push for a vote to withdraw Portland from the Joint Terrorism Task Force, a partnership between local and federal law enforcement established by the FBI in 2000. Related: Portland Council Candidate Jo Ann Hardesty: On The Record She has also proposed hiring mental health professionals to triage calls in the city’s 911 call center and for alternatives to sending police officers to respond to people in a mental health crisis. Commissioner Dan Saltzman, whose seat Hardesty fills, was a moderate who reliably supported Wheeler’s agenda. Saltzman retired after serving five terms on the Council. He held on to his seat longer than any other commissioner in the past 50 years. Saltzman said his advice to Hardesty is to focus. “It’s going to be like trying to drink out of a fire hose,” he said. “Really have two or three specific priorities that you want to own and make happen, and be relentless about them.” A celebration of Hardesty’s swearing-in will take place at City Hall at 6 p.m. Wednesday and is open to the public. Capacity will be limited to 250 guests.


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty - Portland City Commissioner 2019-2023 - Oregon Mental ...] ---
Portland Street Response Pilot Launched, Expanded, & Evaluated In February, the long anticipated launch of the initial Portland Street Response (PSR) pilot team occurred as they began taking calls dispatched from 911 to offer an unarmed response for people suffering from a mental or behavioral health crisis. For the first two months of the pilot, the team responded to calls solely in the Lents neighborhood during limited hours. This first shift was composed of a firefighter paramedic, a licensed clinical social worker and two community health workers. After 2 months the pilot boundaries were expanded to cover eight Portland Police Bureau (PPB) districts in the greater Lents area. In April, the PSR team also started responding to additional call types: for a person either outside or inside of a publicly accessible space such as a business, store, public lobby, etc. The team also started co-responding with Portland Fire & Rescue on certain public burning calls (such as outside warming and cooking fires) to offer wrap-around service assistance. Portland State University, the outside evaluator hired by the City to determine if PSR is meeting its goals, released its six-month report and presented the results to City Council. Dr. Greg Townley, director of research at PSU’s Homelessness Research & Action Collaborative and the lead evaluator, reported that the investigators believe Portland Street Response was well on its way to becoming a citywide solution to responding to 911 and non-emergency calls involving unhoused people and people experiencing a mental or behavioral health crisis. Key findings included: ● A 4.6% reduction in total calls traditionally responded to by police. ● A 22.5% reduction in police response on non-emergency welfare checks as well as dispatches coded as “unwanted persons” and “suspicious persons” calls. ● A 11.6% reduction in fire department activity on behavioral health calls and illegal burn calls. ● Clients rated PSR 5 on a scale of 1-5 with 5 being the best. In November, PSR embarked on its next expansion with the launch of its night shift and additional team members including a Firefighter/EMT, a Mental Health Crisis Responder, and two Peer Support Specialists. This increased the boundary from 13 square miles to 36 square miles. In November, Portland City Council voted to release $2 million in funding to PSR as part of the Fall Budget Monitoring Process, paving the way for citywide expansion. Portland Fire & Rescue Vaccination Effort Portland Fire & Rescue teamed up with Multnomah County health officials to administer tens of thousands of vaccinations across clinics throughout Portland that were primarily focused on targeted outreach to BIPOC and harder to reach communities. To promote vaccination efforts knowing that Black communities have a valid historical distrust of government vaccines – Commissioner Hardesty received her vaccination from Portland Fire & Rescue on video. Her office also worked with the county to promote a webpage including details about the diversity in COVID-19 vaccine studies to help alleviate concerns. Mount Scott-Arleta Violence Intervention Pilot Following the destabilizing effects of the pandemic, gun violence skyrocketed nationwide, and Portland was no exception. The Portland City Council made a historic investment in community-based organizations that interrupt violence and address upstream solutions – but more urgent action was lacking. Community members in the Mt. Scott-Arleta neighborhood observed a correlation between gun violence and high-speed traffic and proposed an intervention. Commissioner Hardesty’s staff worked with PBOT experts and residents to explore options for how the deployment of temporary traffic control devices could help discourage or mitigate the effects of gun violence. Commissioner Hardesty’s office and PBOT were not alone, as the intervention became a collaborative effort involving PBOT, Parks & Recreation, OMF Division of Community Safety, Portland Police Bureau, and local community residents. The all-hands-on deck, holistic response: PBOT placed 18 traffic calming barrels as requested by neighbors Parks & Recreation increased Park Ranger patrol and repaired lighting in Mt. Scott Park Portland Police Bureau increased patrols to area, enhanced collaboration with Park Rangers Commissioner Hardesty’s office surveyed residents in area to capture their concerns and ideas City staff spoke with local businesses, encouraged installation of security cameras Built upon partnership with Multnomah County Youth Violence Prevention Office Police Accountability Commission Recruitment & Appointment The Portland City Council came together during the summer of 2020 to unanimously send a ballot measure to voters to create a new system of independent police oversight. An important piece of building trust in our police bureau will be a system of oversight and accountability with a structure that centers the community the police are sworn to protect and serve. The ballot measure stipulated the next step in the process would be recruiting and appointing a group of community members that would have 18 months to create a framework and structure for the final police oversight board approved by 82% of Portland voters. After reviewing applicants, The Police Accountability Commission was appointed unanimously by Council. The Commission is composed of individuals from community justice organizations, small businesses impacted by community safety issues, and people from overpoliced communities, such as Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC), immigrants, refugees, people living with low-income, experiencing houselessness, and/or mental health or substance use. Interim Director Michael Montoya Appointed to Stabilize Office of Community & Civic Life Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty appointed Michael Montoya as the interim director for the Office of Community & Civic Life. Montoya formally served as Civic Life’s strategy, innovation & performance manager. Commissioner Hardesty knew the Office of Community and Civic Life needed a year of transformation and healing and believed Montoya was the leader for the moment to foster a stronger, more resilient, more responsive bureau. Under Montoya’s leadership, the Office of Community & Civic life moved on from past controversies and proceeded with important work – including the nationally renown Cannabis program and efforts to support our immigrant and refugee communities. Year 3 Annual Budget Process Commissioner Hardesty expressed process concerns that the community and council was not involved enough in the deliberation of her third annual budget. One of the most contentious debates during this budget was whether to fully fund the expansion of Portland Street Response citywide. By a 3-2 vote, Council voted down an amendment for PSR expansion. Later during the Fall Budget Monitoring Process, Commissioner Hardesty was able to secure Council support for expansion. Despite disappointment that her PSR amendment was voted down, the budget had been significantly improved by other proposed amendments. Commissioner Hardesty ultimately voted yes on a budget that included: Funding for staff support for the voter approved police oversight board. Funding support for alternative shelter program to allow safe sleeping options for those currently sleeping on our streets. Funding to support a Truth and Reconciliation process between the Portland Police Bureau and community members of the City of Portland. Increased resources to the City African American Network. Increased funding for the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. Directed PBOT to develop new revenue sources that reflect Portland’s climate goals and addresses the bureaus structural deficit Continued to fund the Portland Bureau of Transportation’s Healthy Businesses program, allowing the creative use of space to provide outdoor dining, drinking, and more. This provided a lifeline to small businesses operating during the pandemic. Increased money to Neighborhood District Coalitions and reinstated the small grant program to Neighborhood Associations. Funded a citywide anti-white supremacy training for city staff. Avoided cuts to the budget of Portland Fire & Rescue. Transfer of 82nd Avenue from State to City Control with $180 Million Investment A long-held priority for East Portland residents, the City of Portland and the State of Oregon agreed to transfer 82nd Ave from State to City Control following decades of organizing. Commissioner Hardesty was part of the coalition of elected leaders and community advocates who successfully advocated for, negotiated, and secured the transfer with substantial funding. The transfer included $80 million in state funding on top of an additional $70 million pledged by the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT), plus $35 million committed from PBOT for a total of over $180 million. The historic transfer and investment will make possible the transformative changes community has been calling for on 82nd Avenue for decades. This would not have been possible without community advocates calling attention to the long record of traffic violence on this high-crash corridor. This was a truly collaborative effort that highlighted the importance of diversity in representation for East Portland. which includes many of the most diverse neighborhoods in Portland. Rapid Street Safety Improvements Responding to a record rise in traffic-related fatalities, Commissioner Hardesty introduced and passed an emergency budget amendment during the summer that allocated $450,000 for rapid street safety improvements on high-crash corridors. These high-crash streets are disproportionately in East Portland. They generally are in areas with higher rates of people living on low incomes and people who are Black, Indigenous or People of Color. The High-Crash Corridor safety interventions included: Speed safety cameras Increased safety and visibility at intersections Turn-calming infrastructure like rubber bumps Center turn lane delineation Speed limit reductions High-crash intersection warning signs Safe Routes to School 2021 saw many children return to school in person for the first time since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, which made it vital to enhance investments in PBOT’s Safe Routes to School program. Commissioner Hardesty secured that funding boost from Council. These dollars funded safety infrastructure on primary school routes such as crossing, sidewalks, and traffic calming. PBOT Healthy Business Permit Extension Commissioner Hardesty championed and secured council support for an extension of PBOT’s Healthy Businesses permit program by allocating $3.5 million from federal American Rescue Plan Act funding to continue the program while waiving all permit fees through 2021. The Healthy Businesses program was created in the first months of the COVID-19 public health emergency. Providing much needed sidewalk and street space, it allowed Portland businesses and their customers to continue operating in a safe and healthy way during the pandemic. PBOT agreed to waive all fees to support business resiliency in the face of unprecedented economic challenges. Restaurants, bars, and other small businesses represent many of the pillars of the Portland economy. By providing businesses, especially restaurants, with more outdoor space, the Healthy Businesses program directly helped pull many back from the brink of disaster. As one participating business said, “Without those outdoor seats, we’d be closed and there wouldn’t have been a penny for anyone, or jobs for the 50 people we’ve got working now.” Portland Public Plaza Expansion A priority during the summer of 2021, PBOT rolled out numerous new public plazas around the city in partnership with local organizations, businesses, and neighborhoods. These included the Northeast Dream Street Plaza, “A Black-centered space for community and microenterprise in historic Albina.” It also included the downtown Pride Plaza, “a new LGBTQ+ friendly neighborhood gathering space with street art, public seating, community activities, and expanded space for businesses into the street.” Ankeny Food Carts Upon becoming Transportation Commissioner in 2021, Commissioner Hardesty asked her staff to bring together PBOT, Prosper Portland, Parks, and council colleagues to rejuvenate the process of finding a home for many of the food carts displaced by the construction of a Ritz-Carlton luxury hotel downtown. Permitting solutions were found and the city was finally able to get food carts placed and operational in a beautiful new space. Additionally, Commissioner Hardesty successfully advocated for a funding package to revitalize O’Bryant Square across from the Ankeny Food Carts as part of the connecting vision of the Green Loop downtown. Increasing Waterfront Access to the Willamette River In collaboration with the Human Access Project, Commissioner Hardesty directed PBOT to help make Duckworth Dock a safer and more accessible place for Portlanders to cool down and hang out in the Willamette River during Portland’s increasingly hot summers. This included providing eight new ladders from the dock to the river, slow no-wake buoys for safety from river traffic, a bike rack, a life ring, and opportunities for live music. Also related to waterfront access, Commissioner Hardesty worked with Human Access Project and Commissioner Mapps, who introduced an amendment to conduct a feasibility study that could contribute to a vision for increased public access to Portland’s beautiful but underutilized waterfront. New Green Revenue Sources There is no debate – climate change is here and its effects on Portland have been catastrophic. This was clear during the tragic heatwave we experienced during the summer of 2020. PBOT is in a position to lead our transition to a sustainable green Portland that is less reliant on cars, with increased access to healthier, safer options for travel: from public transit to biking to scooters and more. Today revenue sources for PBOT have an inherent contradiction toward meeting Portland’s climate mitigation goals, because so much of their revenue derives from fossil fuel infrastructure such as parking fees. During the budget process of 2021, PBOT was formally directed to explore new revenue sources that can adequately fund Portland’s transportation needs without relying on fossil fuel infrastructure. Division Transit Project SE Division Street is a high-crash corridor that is most dangerous in Outer East Portland. The Division Transit project included critical safety improvements like crosswalks with signals, new crosswalks near bus stops, better lighting, protected bike lanes, and medians for pedestrians crossing the street. TriMet also unveiled their new “FX – Frequent Express” transit service to provide faster, more frequent, and more sustainable service to SE Division Street from Gresham to downtown Portland. The City of Portland heard from the community that people wanted this to be more than just a transit project. They also wanted safety, jobs, and housing for the people in our community. That’s what was delivered. This project also hired Raimore Construction, awarding the largest construction contract for a minority contractor in Oregon history.


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty sworn in as first black woman to serve on Portland City ...] ---
On Wednesday, Jo Ann Hardesty officially became a Portland City Commissioner. She was sworn in Wednesday morning before the city council meeting. The move is historic, because she’s now the first black woman to serve on the Portland City Council. When she arrived in Council Chambers, she made the rounds. Many of her supporters showed up for the swearing-in ceremony. Hardesty was all smiles, hugging her supporters and taking pictures with them. "I appreciate having you represent us," Nick Alex said to Hardesty. Alex, his wife, and nine kids showed up to City Hall to see Hardesty get sworn in. "It means everything that she's the first black woman, because I have five daughters myself. So I had to bring all my daughters to see her, and my sons as well," Alex said. There were also some people who decided to disrupt Wednesday morning's council session by speaking over commissioners and the mayor. Some lied down in the middle of council chambers. The commotion forced the city council to take a break, twice. But for Hardesty and her supporters, nothing could overshadow the history making day. "The first black woman on the city council," Alex said. "We had to support." Hardesty defeated Loretta Smith back in November. She replaces longtime commissioner Dan Saltzman. Hardesty also previously served as President of the Portland chapter of the NAACP.


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty Sworn In As Portland's First African American Woman on ...] ---
Dozens of Portlanders crammed into city council chambers this morning hoping to catch a glimpse of history being made with the swearing in of Jo Ann Hardesty, the first Black woman to serve on Portland City Council. Hardesty, a former state representative, NAACP chapter president, and community organizer, replaces former Commissioner Dan Saltzman, who served on the council for 20 years. Many attendees dressed up for the occasion and some brought their children along to witness the brief, yet monumental, event. Longtime community activists who've worked closely with Hardesty—like Right 2 Survive's Ibrahim Mubarak, Mental Health Association of Portland's Jason Renaud, minority-owned business advocate James Posey. "This is a very historic day," said Posey. "Now, the work really begins." Not only is Hardesty the first African American woman to sit on council, but her appointment makes the five-member council majority female for the first time in history. Commissioner @JoAnnPDX is hugging friends, supporters before her swearing in. pic.twitter.com/ckHnu8SZS9 — Alex Zielinski (@alex_zee) January 2, 2019 Hardesty was sworn in by Adrienne Nelson, the first African American judge for the Oregon Supreme Court. Before joining her new colleagues at the council dais, Hardesty addressed the crowded room. "What I see all around me is a city filled of people with hope. And I don't take that hope lightly," she said. "I look forward to what we're able to do together as Portlanders." Hardesty is the third African American commissioner to sit on Portland City Council. The last commissioner, Dick Bogel, stepped down 27 years ago. Hardesty starts her term as the commissioner in charge of the Portland Fire Bureau, Bureau of Emergency Communications, Bureau of Emergency Management, and the Fire and Police Disability & Retirement Fund. It’s official, @JoAnnPDX is a Portland city commissioner. pic.twitter.com/13F8z4GhDA — Alex Zielinski (@alex_zee) January 2, 2019 More than a dozen members of the Portland Fire Department, including Chief Mike Meyers, attended the morning event, along with Portland Police Chief Danielle Outlaw. Before kicking off her inaugural council meeting, Mayor Ted Wheeler noted the day's significance. This is the first time in the history of the city that there has been a majority of women on city council. This is the first time that a woman of color has been elected to city council," Wheeler said. "I know Jo Ann Hardesty to be a tireless leader and effective advocate. Commissioner Hardesty, I welcome you to the dais." Wheeler added that the day's council agenda was the shortest he's ever seen. No significant votes were passed. However, Commissioner Amanda Fritz elected Commissioner Chloe Eudaly to be the council president—a rotating role that makes Eudaly the second in command if Wheeler is absent. Hardesty will hold a public swearing-in celebration this evening at 6 pm at Portland City Hall. And then, she said, the work begins. "I want to remind you that this is only day one. It doesn't mean that after the party today you get to go home. You need to come back to this chamber," Hardesty said. "Let's make sure we keep this chamber looking like the city of Portland, keep coming back, keep making sure your voice is being heard. Because that's why you elected me."
