=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Emerald Ash Borer | National Invasive Species Information Center]
The Future of Ash Trees Feb 28, 2024 USDA. Forest Service. How can an insect that is smaller than a penny cause so much ecological, economic, and cultural devastation? The emerald ash borer, an invasive beetle native to Asia, is one of the most destructive invasive species in North America.
URL: https://www.invasivespeciesinfo.gov/terrestrial/invertebrates/emerald-ash-borer

[Emerald ash borer - Wikipedia]
The emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis), also known by the abbreviation EAB, is a green buprestid or jewel beetle native to north-eastern Asia that feeds on ash species (Fraxinus spp.). Females lay eggs in bark crevices on ash trees, and larvae feed underneath the bark of ash trees to emerge as adults in one to two years. In its native range, it is typically found at low densities and does ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emerald_ash_borer

[Plants with Special Requirements and Prohibited Plants | APHIS]
Plants of certain endangered species are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) and the Endangered Species Act (ESA). To import protected seed species, the buyer must obtain a PPQ 587-Permit To Import Plants or Plant Products.
URL: https://www.aphis.usda.gov/plant-imports/buy-plants-seeds-online/plants-special-requirements

[United States Register of Introduced and Invasive Species (US-RIIS)]
Introduced (non-native) species that becomes established may eventually become invasive, so tracking introduced species provides a baseline for effective modeling of species trends and interactions, geospatially and temporally. The United States Register of Introduced and Invasive Species (US-RIIS) is comprised of three lists, one each for Alaska (AK, with 532 records), Hawaii (HI, with 6,075
URL: https://www.usgs.gov/data/united-states-register-introduced-and-invasive-species-us-riis

[Chapter 5: history of emerald ash Borer BiologiCal Control]
by JR Gould · Cited by 17 — Applying for permits to release exotic parasitoids against invasive pests in the United States is a complicated process involving review by the North. American ...
URL: https://www.fs.usda.gov/nrs/pubs/jrnl/2015/nrs_2015_gould_001.pdf


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Emerald Ash Borer | National Invasive Species Information Center] ---
Agrilus planipennis Fairmaire, 1888 (ITIS) Emerald ash borer (EAB) Eastern Russia, Northern China, Japan, and Korea (McCullough and Usborne 2015) 2002 (McCullough and Usborne 2015) Arrived accidentally in cargo imported from Asia (McCullough and Usborne 2015) Ash trees lose most of their canopy within 2 years of infestation and die within 3-4 years (McCullough and Usborne 2015; Poland and McCullough 2006) Find more images Spotlights Distribution / Maps / Survey Status All Resources Selected Resources The section below contains highly relevant resources for this species, organized by source. Council or Task Force Partnership Federal Government International Government State and Local Government Academic Integrated Taxonomic Information System. Agrilus planipennis. [Accessed Aug 31, 2023].


--- [Emerald ash borer - Wikipedia] ---
The emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis), also known by the abbreviation EAB, is a green buprestid or jewel beetle native to north-eastern Asia that feeds on ash species (Fraxinus spp.). Females lay eggs in bark crevices on ash trees, and larvae feed underneath the bark of ash trees to emerge as adults in one to two years. In its native range, it is typically found at low densities and does not cause significant damage to trees native to the area. Outside its native range, it is an invasive species and is highly destructive to ash trees native to Europe and North America. Before it was found in North America, very little was known about the emerald ash borer in its native range; this has resulted in much of the research on its biology being focused in North America. Local governments in North America are attempting to control it by monitoring its spread, diversifying tree species, and through the use of insecticides and biological control.




--- [Plants with Special Requirements and Prohibited Plants | APHIS] ---
Plants with Special Requirements and Prohibited Plants Buying or selling plants online? E-commerce itself may seem harmless, but some plants pose a significant risk to the United States. These products may carry plant pests and pathogens or be a noxious weed. To safeguard U.S. agriculture, APHIS prohibits certain types of plants from entering the United States and enforces special requirements for others—from permits and certificates to specific shipping and labeling needs. Importers must check if plants have special requirements before they can be shipped to the United States. Visit eFile, create an account (1.45 MB), and apply for a PPQ 587 permit to find out. This process can take up to 2 months, so plan accordingly with your exporter. Plants With Special Requirements Plants for planting shipped to the United States must be free of sand, soil, earth, and other growing media. For plants to be shipped in a growing media, they must meet requirements of APHIS-approved plants in growing media programs and all of the following conditions: - Be APHIS-approved taxa (see APHIS-Approved Plants in Growing Media below) - In APHIS-approved growing media - From an APHIS-approved facility - Be accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate issued by the national plant protection organization of the country where the plants were grown, with an additional declaration that the plants meet the conditions of the APHIS Plant Protection and Quarantine (PPQ) Plants in Growing Media Programs These specific plants may be imported in growing media: - Epiphytic plants (including orchid plants). These may be imported on the following growing media: - Coconut husks - Coconut fiber - New clay pots - New wooden baskets - Plants from Canada that meet Canadian-origin plants in growing media requirements. - Plants growing solely in agar or in other agar-like tissue culture media Go to the Plants in Growing Media Programs in the Agricultural Commodity Import Requirements (ACIR) portal to view lists of approved taxa and growing media and learn more about the exceptions. Use the ACIR facilities search engine to find all up-to-date facility lists. Plants for planting offered for importation must meet size and age requirements. There are two size and age restrictions based on whether the whole plant or part of a plant is offered for import: - Whole plants shipped into the United States should not be older than 2 years. - Plant parts are not eligible for importation if the stem diameter exceeds 4 inches and the plant is taller than 6 feet. For specific size and age restrictions and other variations, visit the ACIR portal. The following propagative plant parts must be treated at a U.S. port of entry before they will be released to the importer: - Allium sativum (garlic) bulbs - Dioscorea (yam) tubers Artificially dwarfed plants (such as bonsai or penjing) under two years old are allowed under the general import requirements for size and age. Artificially dwarfed plants over two years old from any country except Canada can be imported into the United States under certain conditions. Refer to the ACIR portal for the full list of commodity import requirements. These requirements are summarized below: - Any growing media, including soil, must be removed from the artificially dwarfed plants (bonsai or penjing) prior to shipment to the United States. - Artificially dwarfed plants must be grown per the following requirements: - Grown for at least 2 years in a greenhouse or screenhouse in a nursery registered with the government of the country. - Grown in screenhouse or greenhouse with screens no greater than 1.6mm mesh size. Entryways must have automatic closing doors. - Grown in sterile growing media. - Grown on benches at least 50cm above the ground. - Grown in a nursery the government of the country inspected in the last 12 months and found free of quarantine pests. Plants of certain endangered species are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) and the Endangered Species Act (ESA). To import protected seed species, the buyer must obtain a PPQ 587–Permit To Import Plants or Plant Products. They may also be required to obtain a PPQ 621–Permit To Engage in the Business of Importing, Exporting or Re-Exporting Terrestrial Plants or Plant Products That Are Protected. In addition, the seller must obtain a CITES Certificate/Permit from the country of origin. This document must accompany the shipment. To view lists of plants protected under CITES and ESA, please visit the following links: - CITES.org: See "Flora-Plants" toward the end of the list. - Agricultural Commodity Import Requirements Portal Postentry quarantine restrictions may be placed on the importation of certain taxa of plants for planting based on an identified pest risk. Plants are required to grow in quarantine for 2 years. Some are grown for less than 2 years. Seeds are exempt from postentry quarantine. Plants required to enter a postentry quarantine must: - Be accompanied by a valid postentry quarantine permit (form PPQ 546) - Be destined to a State that has completed a State postentry quarantine agreement with APHIS - Be imported under an importer postentry quarantine growing agreement Refer to the Plants for Planting Manual for the list of plants that require postentry quarantine. Prohibited Plants All propagatable plant parts of Federal Noxious Weeds (283.98 KB) are prohibited from all countries. These plants may only be imported for research in an APHIS-approved containment facility with a PPQ 526–Permit to Move Live Plant Pests, Biological Control Agents, or Noxious Weeds. Plant parts (including seeds) of parasitic plants are prohibited from all countries. These plants may only be imported for research in an APHIS-approved containment facility with a PPQ 526–Permit to Move Live Plant Pests, Biological Control Agents, or Noxious Weeds.


--- [United States Register of Introduced and Invasive Species (US-RIIS)] ---
United States Register of Introduced and Invasive Species (US-RIIS) Introduced (non-native) species that becomes established may eventually become invasive, so tracking introduced species provides a baseline for effective modeling of species trends and interactions, geospatially and temporally. The United States Register of Introduced and Invasive Species (US-RIIS) is comprised of three lists, one each for Alaska (AK, with 532 records), Hawaii (HI, with 6,075 records), and the conterminous United States (L48, with 8,657 records). Each list includes introduced (non-native), established (reproducing) taxa that: are, or may become, invasive (harmful) in the locality; are not known to be harmful there; and/or have been used for biological control in the locality. To be included in the US-RIIS, a taxon must be non-native everywhere in the locality and established (reproducing) anywhere in the locality. Native pest species are not included. Each record has information on taxonomy, dates of introduction (where available; currently for 38%), invasion status (invasive or introduced), and citations for the authoritative sources from which this information is drawn. The US-RIIS builds on a previous dataset, A Comprehensive List of Non-Native Species Established in Three Major Regions of the U.S.: Version 3.0 (Simpson et al., 2020, https://doi.org/10.5066/p9e5k160). There are 15,264 records in the master list and 12,981 unique scientific names. The list is derived from 5,951 authoritative sources, was reviewed by or based on input from 30 invasive species scientists, and continues to be updated. Publication of version 2.0 of the US-RIIS is anticipated (but not guaranteed) in approximately 12 months. Many thanks to these additional Reviewers/Contributors: Alexander Salazar, Miami University, Ohio; Alma Solis, Smithsonian Institution; Andrew P. Landsman, National Park Service; Bethany Bradley, University of Massachusetts, Amherst; Bruce Cutler, University of Kansas; Cayla Morningstar, USGS-NAS; Chris Taliga, USDA-ARS PLANTS database; Connor Davidson Crouch, Northern Arizona University; Danielle Froelich, SWCA Environmental Consultants; Darrell Ubick, Cal Academy; Faith Campbell, Center for Invasive Species Prevention; Gerry Moore, USDA-ARS PLANTS database; Matt Bowser, US Fish and Wildlife Service; Matt Neilson, USGS-NAS; Michael Gates, USDA-ARS; Nancy Khan, Smithsonian Institution; Rachel Neville, Invasive Species Consultant; Roy Van Driesche, University of Massachusetts-Amherst; Shyama Pagad, IUCN Invasive Species Specialists Group; Terry L. Whitworth, Washington State University; Thomas Henry, USDA-ARS; Vickie Brewster, USDA-APHIS; Warren Wagner, Smithsonian Institution. Our sincere apologies to the many contributors whom we may not have mentioned. We appreciate your assistance improving the quality of this dataset. Citation Information | Publication Year | 2021 | |---|---| | Title | United States Register of Introduced and Invasive Species (US-RIIS) | | DOI | 10.5066/P95XL09Q | | Authors | Annie Simpson, Rebecca Turner, Rachael Blake, Andrew Liebhold, Mireya Dorado, Elizabeth A Sellers | | Product Type | Data Release | | Record Source | USGS Asset Identifier Service (AIS) | | USGS Organization | Science Analytics and Synthesis Program | | Rights | This work is marked with CC0 1.0 Universal |


--- [Chapter 5: history of emerald ash Borer BiologiCal Control] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
