=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Joachim Neubüser (1932 - 2021), Obituary - Springer]
Joachim Neubüser was born 1932 in Belgard, Pomerania (then Germany, now Poland). At the end of the second world war he fled with his family to Oldenburg in northern Germany. In 1951, Joachim Neubüser started to study mathematics at the University of Kiel, graduating in 1957 with the Staatsexamen (the government exam to become a school teacher), as well as the doctorate (Dr. rer.nat.). His ...
URL: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1365/s13291-022-00255-7

[Joachim Neubüser (1932 - 2021) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...]
Joachim Neubüser completed his schooling in Oldenburg in 1951 and later in that year he entered the University of Kiel to study mathematics. He worked for both a school teacher's certificate and for his doctorate in mathematics advised by Wolfgang Gaschütz. After Gaschütz died, Joachim wrote to me [EFR] on 11 November 2016:-
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Neubuser/

[What's the difference between 'a year' and 'the year'?]
Jan 26, 2017 · 'A year' can be any year without any specification. But 'the year' means a particular/specified year or the one which is already mentioned and thereby known. E.g: In a year there are twelve months. (means any year or all years) I was born in the year 2000. (in that particular year) Grammatically 'a/an' is known as indefinite article and 'the' is definite article. The indefinite article (a/an ...
URL: https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/370328/whats-the-difference-between-a-year-and-the-year

[Joachim Neubüser - RWTH Aachen University]
Joachim Neubüser's Web Site Joachim.Neubueser@t-online.de Prof. em. Dr. Joachim Neubüser Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik RWTH Aachen Templergraben 64 D 52062 Aachen, Germany Telefon: +49-241-8094534
URL: http://www.math.rwth-aachen.de/~Joachim.Neubueser/

[Joachim Neubüser - Wikipedia]
Neubüser studierte ab 1951 an der Universität Kiel mit dem Staatsexamen 1957 und der Promotion bei Wolfgang Gaschütz 1957 (Über homogene Gruppen). [2] Als Post-Doktorand war er 1957/58 an der University of Manchester und ab 1958 Assistent in Kiel, war nach der Habilitation 1967 (Die Untergruppenverbände der Gruppen der Ordnung ≤ 100 mit Ausnahme der Ordnungen 64 und 96 ...
URL: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joachim_Neub%C3%BCser


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Joachim Neubüser (1932 - 2021), Obituary - Springer] ---
Joachim Neubüser was born 1932 in Belgard, Pomerania (then Germany, now Poland). At the end of the second world war he fled with his family to Oldenburg in northern Germany. In 1951, Joachim Neubüser started to study mathematics at the University of Kiel, graduating in 1957 with the Staatsexamen (the government exam to become a school teacher), as well as the doctorate (Dr. rer.nat.). His thesis [1], written under the supervision of Wolfgang Gaschütz, is entitled Über homogene Gruppen (On homogeneous groups) and was inspired by the work of Bernhard Neumann [34] on ‘Identical relations in groups’. 1 Early career Manchester: Immediately after receiving his doctorate, Joachim Neubüser spent a year in Manchester on a British Council scholarship, working in particular with Bernhard Neumann. He shared an office with Gilbert Baumslag, Ian D. Macdonald and Mike Newman, all of whom later made important contributions to computational group theory. Manchester at the time was imbued with the beginnings of computation in mathematics. The department head, Max Newman, had been influential at Bletchley Park (the Newmanry unit is named after him), in particular in the construction of the computer Colossus. After the war he established the Royal Society Computing Machine Laboratory which developed the Manchester Baby, the world’s first stored-program electronic computer. Alan Turing held a position in the department from 1948 until his tragic death in 1954. Another colleague, C. Brian Haselgrove, worked on coset enumeration, developing what would later be known as the HLT strategy. Joachim Neubüser arrived in Manchester with a list of hand-calculated Hasse diagrams of the subgroup lattices of all groups of order at most 31. It seems likely that he had already considered the idea to use computers for automating such calculations before arriving in England. Working in the mathematics department in Manchester clearly made this idea seem more feasible. He was encouraged in this view by Bernhard Neumann, who told him that although using computers in group theory might be unusual, it would be worth pursuing. Kiel: Back in Kiel in the summer of 1958, Joachim Neubüser became Wissenschaftlicher Assistent in the group of Wolfgang Gaschütz. In the same year, the University in Kiel purchased its first computer, a Zuse Z22, a machine with 14 words of 38-bit core memory, extended by an 8192 word drum storage, and operating at a clock rate of 140 kHz [35]. Even though none of his colleagues in the mathematics department in Kiel considered using computers in algebra at the time, Joachim Neubüser started to work on algorithmic methods for subgroup lattice computations, and implemented them on the Zuse Z22. These algorithms were also the subject of his first papers [2, 3], and would later lead to his Habilitation thesis. It is remarkable that his subgroup lattice algorithm is still in use today. Implementing algorithms on the Z22 was no easy task. Only one person at a time could work on the machine, and the Z22 could not be left unattended with any task, as it might overheat and pose a fire hazard. Consequently, Joachim Neubüser often spent nights and weekends at the Z22, programming the machine and watching it work. Programs were handed to the Z22 in the form of punched tape, and Joachim Neubüser was able to read the programs on these tapes fluently. Joachim Neubüser’s enthusiasm for computational work also extended to the diploma students he advised. Hartmut Felsch (1960) wrote a thesis on strategies for the Todd Coxeter algorithm, as well as a description of the ‘collection process’ due to Philip Hall. Volkmar Felsch (1963) developed an algorithm to compute the automorphism group of a group, Claus Brott (1966) worked on algorithms for the computation of characters of groups, and Rolf Bülow (1967) considered crystallographic groups. In 1965, Joachim Neubüser taught for one semester at the Australian National University, on a lectureship arranged by Bernhard Neumann. These lectureships had the principal goal of enabling the participation of a number of younger researchers in a group theory conference in Canberra. This visit seeded contacts with several Australian group theorists which continued through all of Joachim Neubüser’s career. At the meeting Computational Problems in Abstract Algebra in 1967 in Oxford, the research group of Joachim Neubüser, which by then had grown to six members, made significant contributions to the conference and its proceedings, see [7–10]. Also present at the meeting were Charles Sims, John Cannon and Hans Zassenhaus who all became important collaborators of Joachim Neubüser. At a colloquium in the same year, Joachim Neubüser met the crystallographer Hans Wondratschek, who was interested in mathematical questions regarding crystallographic groups. As subgroup lattices were important to crystallographers, they naturally struck up a collaboration. In 1967 Joachim Neubüser completed his Habilitation thesis [5] on the subgroup lattices of groups of order at most 100, with the exception of the orders 64 and 96, and he was promoted to Wissenschaftlicher Rat at the University in Kiel. That same year he married Freya Schwarck, who had completed her thesis on the Frattini-subalgebra of a Lie Algebra under Gaschütz’ supervision in 1963. 2 Aachen: 1969-85 In 1969 Joachim Neubüser was named the inaugural Chair of the newly created algebra institute Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik (now called Lehrstuhl für Algebra und Zahlentheorie) at RWTH Aachen University. His students Volkmar Felsch and Rolf Bülow accompanied him from Kiel to Aachen and helped him establish computational group theory as the research focus of the new institute. Starting with his first semester in Aachen, Joachim Neubüser regularly taught large classes of students Linear Algebra, Algebra and Group Theory. Joachim Neubüser was highly devoted to teaching and became known as an enthusiastic lecturer. Moving from northern Germany to the Rhineland region was not without its pitfalls though: During his first year in Aachen, unaware of the local custom of raucous carnival celebrations preceding Lent, Joachim Neubüser set the date of the exam to fall during these festivities which created a lot of confusion among his students. In 1972 Adalbert Kerber joined Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik as a second professor. He left a few years later for Bayreuth, and Herbert Pahlings took his position. Shortly afterwards, Ulrich Schoenwaelder became the third professor at Lehrstuhl D. Herbert Pahlings and Ulrich Schoenwaelder both broadened their research interests to include algorithmic topics. They thus supported Joachim Neubüser in his interest to build up a strong research group in computational algebra. Crystallographic groups: The joint work of Joachim Neubüser with crystallographer Hans Wondratschek continued from the earlier days in Kiel throughout his academic career. The 230 crystallographic groups in dimension 3 had been classified in 1891 by Schoenflies and Fjodorow. Three papers by Harold Brown, Joachim Neubüser and Hans Zassenhaus entitled On integral groups I, II, III, see [13–15], paved the way to the classification of the crystallographic groups in dimension 4. Their classification relied heavily on computational methods, including the subgroup lattice program of Joachim Neubüser and an algorithm by Zassenhaus (1947) to classify extensions. The complete classification of the crystallographic groups in dimension 4 appeared in book form [17]. Applications of computers to questions in crystallography remained an important research focus of Joachim Neubüser throughout his life. Early computer algebra systems: When Joachim Neubüser arrived in Aachen, scientists there had access to a CDC 6400 and later to a Control Data Corporation Cyber 175 supercomputer. This allowed Joachim Neubüser and his group to switch from programming machine code to programming in Fortran. Programs could now be written on punch cards, which was far more comfortable as each card had its Fortran instruction printed on it, making it much easier to debug programs. Joachim Neubüser and his collaborators, in particular Volkmar Felsch, started to build up a library of Fortran programs to work with different types of groups, such as permutation groups, matrix groups or finitely presented groups. In this library the same program could be applied to different types of groups by exchanging stacks of punch cards. In 1971 Joachim Neubüser and John Cannon started to work on a joint computational group theory system, the Aachen-Sydney Group System. Collaboration in those times used postal mail and was hampered by the long time that letters between Aachen and Sydney needed. Joachim Neubüser and John Cannon always had several letters to each other underway simultaneously. Significant differences in their working styles and opinions on how to support a computer algebra system eventually led to a break in their joint work in the early eighties. Afterwards Joachim Neubüser started the development of other computer algebra systems. In 1981, in collaboration with Herbert Pahlings and Wilhelm Plesken, the system CAS [25] was announced. It consisted of an interactive collection of programs designed to compute and work with character tables of finite groups. It was highly successful in computing some of the character tables of finite groups collected in the Atlas [33], and it helped with checking and correcting mistakes. The development of the system Sogos [24] to work with soluble groups started around the same time as a collaboration of Joachim Neubüser, Ulrich Schoenwaelder, and Reinhard Laue. In multiple iterations it was written by diploma students and, among other functionality, implemented Joachim Neubüser’s algorithm to compute subgroup lattices. Both CAS and Sogos were collections of programs without a connecting environment or programming language, making it hard to perform sequences of calculations. 3 Aachen: 1986-1997 By the early 1980s, experience with the Aachen-Sydney Group System, as well as CAS and Sogos, had left a number of design wishes unaddressed. These systems did not provide their own programming language, and hence experiments with algorithms required regular recompilation. As innovative as Fortran had been earlier, by this time it had become outdated, and its user interface was awkward. Many of these issues were being addressed by the system Cayley (which later became Magma), by then under development in Sydney. However, Cayley was not free software, as it required a licence fee to be paid, and Joachim Neubüser was a firm advocate of making mathematical software free of charge and with full source code available. This made a collaboration with the group around John Cannon in Sydney increasingly impossible. The origins of GAP: Out of this situation arose the desire to have a new system that would be free, come with full source code, and would provide a user-friendly programming environment. The last desideratum included that it ought to be possible to interrupt a calculation at any time and inspect the values of the variables at that stage. Impressed by an early demonstration of the computer algebra system Maple at the conference EUROCAL’85 in Linz, Joachim Neubüser initiated discussions about a new system, to be called GAP, in 1985 with Johannes Meier, Werner Nickel, Alice Niemeyer, and Martin Schönert, who at that time were diploma students at the department. The new computer algebra system GAP was to provide an intuitive new language, also called GAP, and a library of programs written in this language. A prototype version of the new system was designed and implemented by Martin Schönert in Pascal. GAP turned into a major success. It expanded quickly with the work of new diploma students who joined the project. Martin Schönert remained the architect of the system and the diploma students contributed implementations of mathematical algorithms in the GAP language. While Joachim Neubüser did not want to be listed as co-author, he drove the development of new algorithms by monitoring the progress of the students. He also led the many highly engaged discussions about features of the system and remained a stern advocate for a user-friendly system designed for the needs of mathematicians. Moreover, he promoted GAP throughout the world, always looking out for new methods by the established members of the community as well as new researchers and students to join the project. This setup proved to be highly successful. In this leadership role, Joachim Neubüser focused on developing an environment in which computational group theory would flourish. Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik regularly hosted a number of international researchers. Visitors were encouraged to work on group theoretic algorithms and their implementations in GAP specifically, or received assistance with applications of computational group theory to their research. With everyone, including diploma students, located within a few rooms in the Lehrstuhl, interaction was encouraged and collaboration flourished. For those of us who were students at Lehrstuhl D at the time, the constant stream of international visitors seemed only natural and was very motivating. Only after moving elsewhere (and encountering the difficulties of providing space, accommodation and funding for visitors) did we realize the amount of work that must have gone into creating such an inspiring environment. Similarly, funds were made available for doctoral students to spend several months at universities abroad and to participate in international conferences. This very special environment was fertile ground for research that led to software, theses and publications. Even though Joachim Neubüser typically was not a formal co-author on the resulting works, he had a significant impact through providing the working environment, advice, and serious enthusiasm for all the ongoing work. Visitors were encouraged to contribute to the training of students, or the development of GAP. Joachim Neubüser was instrumental in ensuring that theoretical complexity results of group theoretic algorithms were also reflected in their practical performance and often invited researchers to implement their theoretical algorithms in GAP. The lasting impact on computational group theory was to bring together the two previously separate communities of theoretical computer scientists and mathematicians mostly interested in the applications of the algorithms. It is worth noting that invitations went out generously to group theorists who were in need of a bridging position at a university in Western Europe, even if their work was at best peripherally connected to computation. Software Releases: Joachim Neubüser considered the publication of software as important as journal publications. The earlier programs were dependent on particular machines, and never got formal distribution outside Kiel or Aachen. This changed with GAP, which not only ran on a variety of platforms, but also emerged at a time when computers became commonplace in mathematics departments. The first official release was in December 1988 with GAP 2.4. It had a handful of users outside Aachen and was distributed by shipping computer tapes (and later floppy disks) at self-cost. Members of Lehrstuhl D who travelled to conferences were instructed to take software that could be given to interested participants, enabling them to use the system. Only around the mid-1990s did services such as FTP become sufficiently available to allow users to download GAP themselves. A significant change came with GAP 3.1, released in April 1992, which provided a semblance of object orientation, as well as some simplification in the language. This was also the first version of GAP used extensively outside Lehrstuhl D and cited in research publications. Packages provided an easy way for external user contributions. The final major redesign of the GAP language was GAP 4.1 (by Martin Schönert), released in 1999. With compulsory retirement on the horizon in 1997, Joachim Neubüser realized that his successors’ research focus might not include the continued development of GAP. In collaboration with Edmund Robertson and Steve Linton, he thus initiated a formal move of GAP from Aachen to St Andrews/UK. This gave the system a solid base for the coming years. By now, development and developers of GAP are distributed over multiple institutions, countries and continents, and GAP packages are developed at places too numerous to list them all. Conferences: The Mathematische Forschungsinstitut in Oberwolfach is the preeminent conference venue for mathematics in Germany. Wolfgang Gaschütz, Karl Gruenberg and Bertram Huppert regularly organised meetings in ‘Gruppentheorie’ and invited Joachim Neubüser to them. Later Joachim Neubüser and Charles Sims started an independent series of conferences at the institute: the series on ‘Computational Group Theory’. This is still ongoing today. Joachim Neubüser was also instrumental in the genesis of the Groups St Andrews series of conferences, as described in [32]. 4 Students The development of GAP and other software at Lehrstuhl D was to a large extent based on the large number of Diploma- and doctoral students at Lehrstuhl D. Among the Diploma students in Aachen were Wilhelm Plesken, Klaus Lux, Rüdiger Offermanns, Matthias Mecky, Martin Schönert, Johannes Meier, Werner Nickel, Alice Niemeyer, Thomas Breuer, Thomas Merkwitz, Wolfgang Merkwitz, Alexander Wegner, Thomas Bishops, Frank Celler, Bettina Eick, Alexander Hulpke, Jürgen Mnich, Udo Polis and Heiko Theissen. Many of these students contributed significantly to GAP and other software projects. The PhD students supervised by Joachim Neubüser are Karsten Johnsen (1969, Kiel), Volkmar Felsch (1969, Kiel), Rolf Bülow (1973, Aachen), Wilhelm Plesken (1974, Aachen), Klaus-Joachim Köhler (1977, Aachen), Bettina Eick (1996, Aachen), Alexander Hulpke (1996, Aachen), Frank Celler (1997, Aachen) and Heiko Theissen (1997, Aachen). According to the Mathematics Genealogy Project, these nine doctoral students currently have a further 56 doctoral descendants. 5 Closing Remarks Below, we give a complete list of Joachim Neubüser’s scientific publications. In addition to the work cited so far, it includes: [4, 6, 11, 12, 16, 18–23, 26–29, 31]. It seems appropriate to close on a note from Joachim Neubüser’s penultimate paper [30], written in 1994: In describing the progress that systems for computational group theory have made over time and the challenge technical innovations pose, he notes: While Huppert’s book will most likely still be on your shelves in 2021, after the next 27 years, one must have serious doubts if you will still be able to use GAP (or Magma) then. We happily report that Joachim Neubüser’s prediction was incorrect and at the time of writing in 2022 both systems are thriving and indeed have become indispensable research tools. The success of GAP is a fitting reward for his life’s work. References Bibliography (In chronological order) Neubüser, J.: Über homogene Gruppen. Dissertation, Universität Kiel (1957) Neubüser, J.: Untersuchungen des Untergruppenverbandes endlicher Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten electronischen Dualmaschine. Numer. Math. 2, 280–292 (1960) Neubüser, J.: Bestimmung der Untergruppenverbände endlicher \(p\)-Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten elektronischen Dualmaschine. Numer. Math. 3, 271–278 (1961) Gaschütz, W., Neubüser, J., Yen, T.: Über den Multiplikator von \(p\)-Gruppen. Math. Z. 100, 93–96 (1967) Neubüser, J.: Die Untergruppenverbände der Gruppen der Ordnung \(\leq 100\) mit Ausnahme der Ordnungen 64 und 96. Habilitation thesis, Universität Kiel (1967) Felsch, V., Neubüser, J.: Über ein Programm zur Berechnung der Automorphismengruppe einer endlichen Gruppe. Numer. Math. 11, 277–292 (1968) Brott, C., Neubüser, J.: A programme for the calculation of characters and representations of finite groups. In: Computational Problems in Abstract Algebra Proc. Conf., Oxford, 1967, pp. 101–110. Pergamon, Oxford (1970) Bülow, R., Neubüser, J.: On some applications of group-theoretical programmes to the derivation of the crystal classes of \(R_{4}\). In: Computational Problems in Abstract Algebra Proc. Conf., Oxford, 1967, pp. 131–135. Pergamon, Oxford (1970). Felsch, V., Neubüser, J.: On a programme for the determination of the automorphism group of a finite group. In: Computational Problems in Abstract Algebra Proc. Conf., Oxford, 1967, pp. 59–60. Pergamon, Oxford (1970) Neubüser, J.: Investigations of groups on computers. In: Computational Problems in Abstract Algebra Proc. Conf., Oxford, 1967, pp. 1–19. Pergamon, Oxford (1967). 1970 Kovács, L.G., Neubüser, J., Neumann, B.H.: On finite groups with “hidden” primes. J. Aust. Math. Soc. 12, 287–300 (1971) Neubüser, J.: Computing moderately large groups: some methods and applications. In: Computers in Algebra and Number Theory. Proc. SIAM-AMS Sympos. Appl. Math., New York, 1970, SIAM–AMS Proc., vol. IV, pp. 183–190 (1971) Brown, H., Neubüser, J., Zassenhaus, H.: On integral groups. I. The reducible case. Numer. Math. 19, 386–399 (1972) Brown, H., Neubüser, J., Zassenhaus, H.: On integral groups. II. The irreducible case. Numer. Math. 20, 22–31 (1972/73) Brown, H., Neubüser, J., Zassenhaus, H.: On integral groups. III. Normalizers. Math. Comput. 27, 167–182 (1973) Loos, R., Neubüser, J.: Group theoretical computations in mathematical crystallography. SIGSAM Bull. 10(4), 11–18 (1976) Brown, H., Bülow, R., Neubüser, J., Wondratschek, H., Zassenhaus, H.: Crystallographic Groups of Four-Dimensional Space. Wiley Monographs in Crystallography. Wiley-Interscience [John Wiley & Sons], New York-Chichester-Brisbane (1978) Felsch, V., Neubüser, J.: An algorithm for the computation of conjugacy classes and centralizers in \(p\)-groups. In: Symbolic and Algebraic Computation EUROSAM’79, Internat. Sympos., Marseille, 1979. Lecture Notes in Comput. Sci., vol. 72, pp. 452–465. Springer, Berlin (1979) Finken, H., Neubüser, J., Plesken, W.: Space groups and groups of prime-power order. II. Classification of space groups by finite factor groups. Arch. Math. (Basel) 35(3), 203–209 (1980) Felsch, W., Neubüser, J., Plesken, W.: Space groups and groups of prime-power order. IV. Counterexamples to the class-breadth conjecture. J. Lond. Math. Soc. (2) 24(1), 113–122 (1981) Neubüser, J., Plesken, W., Wondratschek, H.: An emendatory discursion on defining crystal systems. Match 10, 77–96 (1981) Neubüser, J.: Computing with groups and their character tables. In: Proceedings of the Tenth International Colloquium on Group-Theoretical Methods in Physics, Canterbury, 1981, vol. 114, pp. 493–506. Springer, Vienna (1982). Also published in: Computer Algebra, pages 45–56, 1983 Neubüser, J.: An elementary introduction to coset table methods in computational group theory. In: Groups—St. Andrews 1981, St. Andrews, 1981. London Math. Soc. Lecture Note Ser., vol. 71, pp. 1–45. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (1982) Laue, R., Neubüser, J., Schoenwaelder, U.: Algorithms for finite soluble groups and the SOGOS system. In: Computational Group Theory, Durham, 1982, pp. 105–135. Academic Press, London (1984) Neubüser, J., Pahlings, H., Plesken, W.: CAS; design and use of a system for the handling of characters of finite groups. In: Computational Group Theory, Durham, 1982, pp. 195–247. Academic Press, London (1984) Neubüser, J., Sidki, S.: Alguns Procedimentos Computacionais Para Grupos Dados Por Uma Apresentação Finita (Some computational approaches to groups given by finite presentations). Rev. Mat. Univ. 7, 77–120 (1988) Mecky, M., Neubüser, J.: Some remarks on the computation of conjugacy classes of soluble groups. Bull. Aust. Math. Soc. 40(2), 281–292 (1989) Celler, F., Neubüser, J., Wright, C.R.B.: Some remarks on the computation of complements and normalizers in soluble groups. Acta Appl. Math. 21(1–2), 57–76 (1990) Felsch, V., Johnson, D.L., Neubüser, J., Tsaranov, S.V.: The structure of certain Coxeter groups. In: Groups’93 Galway/St. Andrews, Vol. 1, Galway, 1993. London Math. Soc. Lecture Note Ser., vol. 211, pp. 177–190. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (1995) Neubüser, J.: An invitation to computational group theory. In: Groups’93 Galway/St. Andrews, Vol. 2. London Math. Soc. Lecture Note Ser., vol. 212, pp. 457–475. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (1995) Neubüser, J., Souvignier, B., Wondratschek, H.: Corrections to: Crystallographic groups of four-dimensional space by Brown et al. (1978) [New York: Wiley and Sons]. Acta Crystallogr. Sect. A 58(3), 301 (2002) Other cited works Campbell, C.M., Robertson, E.F.: Twenty-five years of Groups St. Andrews conferences. In: Groups—St. Andrews 1981, St. Andrews, 1981. London Math. Soc. Lecture Note Ser., vol. 71, pp. ix–xii. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (2007). Second edition Conway, J.H., et al.: ATLAS of Finite Groups. Clarendon Press, Oxford (1985) Neumann, B.H.: Identical relations in groups. I. Math. Ann. 114, 506–525 (1937) Wikipedia. Z22 — Wikipedia, die freie Enzyklopädie https://de.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Z22&oldid=212548400, 31 Mai 2021 Acknowledgements We thank Volkmar Felsch, Klaus Lux, Mike Newman, Eamonn O’Brien, Wilhelm Plesken, Martin Schönert, Rebecca Waldecker, and the Neubüser family for their contributions. Author information Authors and Affiliations Corresponding author Additional information Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Rights and permissions About this article Cite this article Eick, B., Hulpke, A. & Niemeyer, A.C. Joachim Neubüser (1932 - 2021), Obituary. Jahresber. Dtsch. Math. Ver. 124, 147–155 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1365/s13291-022-00255-7 Accepted: Published: Version of record: Issue date: DOI: https://doi.org/10.1365/s13291-022-00255-7


--- [Joachim Neubüser (1932 - 2021) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...] ---
Joachim Neubüser Quick Info Belgard, Germany (now Białogard, Poland) Aachen, Germany Biography Joachim Neubüser was born in Belgard, Pomerania, a town of about 15,000 inhabitants about 25 km from the Baltic Sea coast. Today it is Białogard, in Poland, but when Joachim was born there it was part of Germany. Joachim was a friend and colleague of mine [EFR] whom I worked with for many years, so some details in the biography below come from things he told me about his life while some are from personal experiences working with him.Joachim Neubüser was only six months old when, in January 1933, Adolf Hitler, the leader of the Nazi Party, became chancellor and head of the German government. Pomerania, part of Germany at this time, came under Nazi rule. Arguments between Germany and Poland over the region were used by Hitler as a reason to invade Poland in 1939 which marked the start of World War II. At this time Joachim was seven years old and had just begun has schooling. The war years were not easy and from 1943 onwards Pomerania became the target of Allied bombing. Many parts of Germany were finding conditions far worse, however, and families fled, particularly from Berlin, to Pomerania which was safer. At the beginning of 1945 Russian troops began attacking Pomerania which became a major battlefield. Families now sought safer places and the Neubüser family, like many others, moved west, settling in Oldenburg. By May 1945 British and Canadian forces had advanced east as far as Oldenburg. German propaganda had painted the Allied troops as evil men who would murder and destroy, so Joachim and his family were terrified when they knew British and Canadian forces were approaching. A group of residents, including the Neubüser family, stood waiting in dread. As the soldiers reached them, the group pushed the twelve year old Joachim out, shaking with fear, to talk to the soldiers since he was the only one who knew a little English. He was overwhelmed by the kindness of the soldiers and there was still emotion in his voice when he told me [EFR] this story 45 years later. Joachim Neubüser completed his schooling in Oldenburg in 1951 and later in that year he entered the University of Kiel to study mathematics. He worked for both a school teacher's certificate and for his doctorate in mathematics advised by Wolfgang Gaschütz. After Gaschütz died, Joachim wrote to me [EFR] on 11 November 2016:- [Wolfgang Gaschütz] has never worked on Computational Group Theory though he certainly caused my curiosity for the 'inside' of groups that lead me to my first attempts to look for a way of computing subgroup lattices.In 1957 Joachim Neubüser graduated from the University of Kiel with the Staatsexamen (the school teacher qualification), and his doctorate (Dr. rer. nat.) with his thesis Über homogene Gruppen Ⓣ. He attended the International Congress of Mathematicians held at the University of Cambridge, England, in August 1958 and gave a short lecture on the results of his thesis. The award of a British Council scholarship funded a postdoctoral year 1957-58 for Joachim at the University of Manchester. At this time Manchester was an exciting place for a young group theorist. Max Newman held the chair of Mathematics and worked on combinatorial topology but he had undertaken work on computers during World War II and had appointed Alan Turing to Manchester. He had also appointed to Manchester, among others, B H Neumann who was one of the leading group theorists. When Joachim Neubüser arrived in Manchester he was immediately introduced to four Ph.D. students of B H Neumann, namely Jim Wiegold, Gilbert Baumslag, Ian David Macdonald and Michael Frederick Newman. All four would become important figures the group theory with three of the four making important contributions to computational group theory. Jim Wiegold submitted his doctoral dissertation entitled Nilpotent products of groups with amalgamations in 1958 and was awarded his Ph.D. Gilbert Baumslag was also awarded his Ph.D. in 1958; his thesis, was entitled Some aspects of groups with unique roots. Both Ian D Macdonald and Mike Newman were near the beginning of their studies and both graduated with a Ph.D. in 1960, Ian Macdonald with the thesis On Groups with Conditions like Finiteness of Conjugacy Classes and Mike Newman with the thesis On Groups All of Whose Proper Homomorphic Images are Nilpotent. The authors of [8] write:- Joachim Neubüser arrived in Manchester with a list of hand-calculated Hasse diagrams of the subgroup lattices of all groups of order at most 31. It seems likely that he had already considered the idea to use computers for automating such calculations before arriving in England. Working in the mathematics department in Manchester clearly made this idea seem more feasible. He was encouraged in this view by Bernhard Neumann, who told him that although using computers in group theory might be unusual, it would be worth pursuing.After his postdoctoral year at Manchester, Joachim returned to Kiel in 1958 where he was appointed as an assistant to Wolfgang Gaschütz. Kiel had just purchased a Zuse Z22 computer and Joachim set about writing programs to compute subgroup lattices [8]:- ... Joachim Neubüser often spent nights and weekends at the Z22, programming the machine and watching it work. Programs were handed to the Z22 in the form of punched tape, and Joachim Neubüser was able to read the programs on these tapes fluently.This work led to his first two papers Untersuchungen des Untergruppenverbandes endlicher Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten electronischen Dualmaschine Ⓣ (1960) and Bestimmung der Untergruppenverbände endlicher p-Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten elektronischen Dualmaschine Ⓣ (1961). In the first of these he writes [13]:- When examining group-theoretic problems, it is often useful to test the question using a larger sample of material. However, a more detailed discussion of special groups, if they are not of a well-known type such as abelian groups, can require a considerable amount of computation. It is therefore natural to try to use electronic calculators to study and discuss specific groups.Reviewing this paper, D H Lehmar writes:- In group theory, there are hardly any systematic methods for investigating the structure of a given group; only a few calculation methods are used more frequently, such as that of residue class enumeration, for a group given by generators and defining relations, with the aim of obtaining a permutation representation for it. When discussing a group, one tends to make use of group-theoretic theorems that are applicable to the specific group, in order to avoid lengthy calculations as far as possible. The use of an electronic calculating machine, on the other hand, only makes sense if a systematic procedure is established which can be applied to any group or at least to a large classes of groups. To a limited extent (due to the memory capacity of the machine), changes in the calculation method based on already known partial results using group-theoretic theorems can be taken into account by branches of the program. A description is given of a program designed to analyse the structure of finite groups with the aid of a binary digital computer instead of theorems. The group elements are represented by permutations on n marks. One or more words are used to store one permutation, using n subwords, each sufficiently large to store a number from 1 to n. Thus, for n = 19, 5 bits are required for each mark and so 7 marks are packed into each of 2 words and the remaining 5 marks are packed into a third word. (A 38 bit word is used.) The program generates the group from the given generators and proceeds to analyse the group by means of cyclic subgroups. It reports out (a) the order of the group, (b) the number of cyclic subgroups of prime power order, (c) the total number of subgroups, and (d) the number of classes of conjugate subgroups. Space and time restrictions of the machine, a Zuse 22, limit the program to groups of order about 300, without outside human assistance.The 1961 paper was reviewed by Brian Haselgrove who writes [9]:- This paper describes a method for enumerating the subgroups of a group of order which has been programmed for the computer Zuse 22. It is found that a group of order with 514 subgroups and 334 classes of conjugate subgroups required 8 hours of computation, whereas another group of the same order with 386 subgroups and 224 classes required hours.In 1967 the first major conference on computation in abstract algebra was held in Oxford, England from 29 August to 2 September. By this time Joachim was head of perhaps the most active research group on computational group theory and he gave the major survey Investigations of groups on computers, see [15]. His research group had six members, all of whom present at the meeting contributing several papers. Now 1967 was an eventful year for Joachim Neubüser for in that year he completed work on his habilitation thesis Die Untergruppenverbände der Gruppen der Ordnung ≤ 100 mit Ausnahme der Ordnungen 64 und 96 Ⓣ. This led to his promotion at Kiel. Also in 1967 he married Freya Schwarck. Freya had studied for a doctorate at Kiel advised by Wolfgang Gaschütz and Friedrich Bachmann and had been awarded a Dr. rer. nat. in 1963 for her thesis Die Frattini-Algebra einer Lie-Algebra Ⓣ. Freya was so kind to me when I visited them and she cooked a wonderful meal. She asked me what my favourite meal was and she cooked that for me on my next visit. In 1969 Joachim was named chair of the Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik at the Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule (RWTH Aachen University). The Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik was a new department, specially created to bring Joachim Neubüser to Aachen. He brought two colleagues from Kiel to help in founding the Department, namely Volkmar Felsch and Rolf Bülow. With their help Joachim began to quickly establish a major computational group theory team. He was now one of three major figures in computational group theory, the other two being Charles Sims and John Cannon. In the Preface of his 1994 book Computation with finitely presented groups Sims wrote [19]:- In 1970, John Cannon, Joachim Neubüser, and I considered the possibility of jointly producing a single book which would cover all of computational group theory. A draft table of contents was even produced, but the project was not completed. It is a measure of how far the subject has progressed in the past 20 years that it would now take at least four substantial books to cover the field, not including the necessary background material on group theory and the design and analysis of algorithms.Around 1971 Joachim Neubüser and John Cannon began a collaboration on a general purpose computational group theory system called the Aachen-Sydney Group System. This system has developed into MAGMA, a system widely used today for computations in algebra, number theory, algebraic geometry, and algebraic combinatorics. Joachim, however, left the project in the early 1980s mainly due to having a different vision about computer systems. You can see what these differences were by looking at the section "Some concerns" of Joachim's lecture A history of computational group theory; see THIS LINK. Let me [EFR] now say a little about how I collaborated with Joachim Neubüser. I was an undergraduate at the University of St Andrews, wrote a Ph.D. thesis on infinite dimensional matrix groups at the University of Warwick and was appointed to St Andrews in 1968. There I had two colleagues, Mike Beetham who had written a Todd-Coxeter coset enumeration program, and Colin Campbell who, advised by Willie Moser, had written an M.Sc. thesis on Nathan Mendelsohn's modification of Todd-Coxeter. I became interested in computational group theory and when I heard that Ian D Macdonald, who had produced one of the cleverest ideas in computational group theory, the -Nilpotent-Quotient method, had moved from Australia to Stirling in Scotland, I invited him to lecture at St Andrews. We became good friends and, around the beginning of 1979 Ian told me that Joachim Neubüser had produced a counter-example to the class breadth conjecture. Ian said he wished he could find out the details, so I suggested that I invite Joachim to come to St Andrews. He came in the summer of 1979 and lectured to a small group including David Johnson who came from Nottingham with his Ph.D. student. Joachim gave a series of excellent lectures on Counterexamples to the class-breadth conjecture and while he was in St Andrews I asked him if he would be a main speaker if Colin Campbell and myself organised a bigger conference in 1981. Joachim agreed, provided we chose dates to fit in with the German school holidays. In addition, we invited Sean Tobin and Jim Wiegold to be main speakers and they agreed. With large numbers registering for the conference Groups St Andrews 1981, Joachim said we needed more than three main speakers so we invited Derek Robinson. These four gave five-lecture surveys which were published in the conference Proceedings. Joachim's lecture series An elementary introduction to coset table methods in computational group theory was expanded into a 45-page article in the Proceedings. Let me explain here that Colin Campbell and myself were editors of the Proceedings and made the (perhaps silly) decision to unify the style of the references in all the papers. When Joachim saw it he was furious we had changed his reference style and told me so in no uncertain terms. Then he said he'd got it off his chest, it was now all forgotten, no hard feelings. Unfortunately, we had to change Joachim's reference style in his article "History of computational group theory up to 1993" at THIS LINK so it would work in MacTutor. Joachim would have been furious. The demand for the Proceedings over the years was largely because of this article and it was so great that Cambridge University Press asked us to produce a second edition 25 years later. In this second edition we wrote in [3]:- Even after 25 years the article by Joachim Neubüser remains the first source to which all three of us refer those who want to find out about the use of coset tables for studying groups. Our view is confirmed by the 14 Reference Citations from 1998 to 2005 which MathSciNet reveals for this article. ... One of Neubüser's aims in writing his survey was to provide a unified view on coset table methods in computational group theory. He addressed the way coset table concepts were developed, implemented and used.We note that from 1998 to 2022 there are now 25 Reference Citations to this article in MathSciNet. A number of computer algebra systems were developed in Aachen by Joachim in collaboration with other colleagues. In 1981 CAS was announced which consisted of an interactive collection of programs designed to compute and work with character tables of finite groups. In 1982 the system Sogos became available based on Joachim Neubüser's algorithm to compute subgroup lattices. In 1989 SPAS was produced in Aachen containing versions of the modified Todd-Coxeter and Tietze Transformation programs which had been developed at St Andrews. The system for which Joachim Neubüser is best known is GAP which began life around 1985. I was awarded an EPSRC grant 'A computer program to learn group theory techniques', 1984-87, to work with my Ph.D. student Kevin Rutherford on developing a computational group theory system. Some time in 1985 I suggested to Joachim that we apply to the European Communities (EC) (which became the EU in 1995), for funds to develop a computer algebra system. I told Joachim about the system I was developing with Kevin Rutherford and Joachim replied that he just begun developing a similar system called GAP. (Originally GAP stood for Groups And Programming, but was soon changed into Groups Algorithms Programming.) We decided to go ahead with an application to the EC for developing GAP. Our first application to the EC for a "twinning grant" was rejected on the grounds we were not asking for enough money. We then added Galway, Ireland (the EC seemed happy with 3 twins!) and asked for the grant 'Intelligent computer algebra systems' to support travel, research assistants, and equipment. This was awarded with myself as scientific coordinator which meant I did most of the administrative work but Joachim led the development of GAP. This was the first of four major EC grants, the other three being: 'Using computer algebra', 1993-94, involving co-operation between St Andrews, Aachen, Trento, and five Hungarian Universities; 'Computational Group Theory', 1993-96, involving co-operation between St Andrews, Aachen and nine other EC centres of computational algebra expertise; and 'Using computer algebra', 1994-96, involving co-operation between St Andrews, RWTH Aachen, Germany, Universita degli studi di Trento, Trento, Italy, Lorand Eotvos Budapest Hungary, Technical University of Budapest, Budapest, Hungary, Lajos Kossuth University, Debrecen, Hungary, and the University of Miskolc, Miscolc, Hungary. I was the scientific co-ordinator for all four of these grants but I was greatly helped by Joachim in writing the reports which we would discuss in detail before I wrote them. To get an impression of the GAP development that came about from these grants, you can read a draft of the final report I wrote for the 'Computational Group Theory' one. I sent this draft to Joachim in March 1997 for his comments, see THIS LINK. We organised Groups 1993 Galway / St Andrews. We wrote in the Preface:- An invitation to Professor J Neubüser (Aachen) to arrange a workshop on Computational Group Theory and the use of GAP was taken up so enthusiastically by him that the workshop became effectively a fully-fledged parallel meeting throughout the second week, with over thirty hours of lectures by experts and with practical sessions organised by M Schönert (Aachen). These Proceedings contain an article by Professor Neubüser based on a lecture he gave in the first week of the conference.Joachim was keen to begin the GAP workshop at 8 a.m. each day but after a little gentle persuasion he agreed, somewhat reluctantly, to begin at 9 a.m. On 31 July 1997 Joachim Neubüser retired and GAP headquarters formally moved from Aachen to St Andrews. He wrote on 30 June 1995:- After careful consideration and discussion with various colleagues, I have come to the conclusion not to take the risk if my successor as chairman of Lehrstuhl D, who after all might get determined only shortly before my retirement, will be interested to further the development of GAP in a similar way as I have done. It seemed to be better and safer for GAP and the community of its users to hand the responsibility for GAP in time before my retirement to a group of colleagues who are both competent and willing to take over the work of the further development and maintenance of GAP.After he retired, Joachim, of course, continued to take a passionate interest in GAP development and was in frequent contact with me. GAP continued to be developed and it was awarded the ACM/SIGSAM Richard Dimick Jenks Memorial Prize for Excellence in Software Engineering applied to Computer Algebra in July 2008. ... Let me finally state a point that is very important to me. The colleagues in St Andrew completely agree with me that also in their hands GAP will remain a system that can be obtained free of charge and with completely open source of kernel, library and data. Also the present support of the community of GAP users by GAP-forum and GAP-trouble will be maintained. To read Joachim Neubüser's "History of computational group theory up to 1993" see THIS LINK. In his 1993 lecture, Joachim Neubüser spoke about "Some concerns" looking at the positive and negative aspects of using a computer to solve algebra problems. For example, he wrote [16]:- You can read Sylow's Theorem and its proof in Huppert's book in the library without even buying the book and then you can use Sylow's Theorem for the rest of your life free of charge, but ... for many computer algebra systems license fees have to be paid regularly for the total time of their use. In order to protect what you pay for, you do not get the source, but only an executable, i.e. a black box. You can press buttons and you get answers in the same way as you get the bright pictures from your television set but you cannot control how they were made in either case.For more of Joachim Neubüser's "Some concerns", see THIS LINK. With this situation two of the most basic rules of conduct in mathematics are violated: In mathematics information is passed on free of charge and everything is laid open for checking. Not applying these rules to computer algebra systems that are made for mathematical research ... means moving in a most undesirable direction. Most important: Can we expect somebody to believe a result of a program that he is not allowed to see? Moreover: Do we really want to charge colleagues in Moldova several years of their salary for a computer algebra system? In September 2021, Bettina Eick and Alexander Hulpke announced Joachim Neubüser's death to the GAP Forum [7]:- It is with immense sadness we would like to inform you that Joachim Neubüser passed away on Saturday, September 25, after a long illness. He was the founder of the GAP System and also one of the main initiators of Computational Group Theory in its early days.Peter Cameron paid this tribute after the death of Joachim Neubüser [1]:- ... Many modern group theoretic algorithms have been influenced by his work and the GAP System, of which he was the leader until his retirement 1997, is still one of the world leading computer algebra systems today. As two of his doctoral students, both of us owe much of our education in group theory, and in algorithms, to him. In Gratitude, Bettina Eick and Alexander Hulpke. Neubüser was much more than just the originator of GAP: a skilled computational group theorist himself, and an inspiring teacher. Indeed, when I wrote my book on permutation groups in the late 1990s, he wrote me a long account of the trials and mis-steps in the classification of transitive subgroups of low-degree symmetric groups, and permitted me to quote it in the book (which I did). But GAP, together with his students, make up his main legacy. References (show) - P Cameron, Joachim Neubüser: Another sad loss (29 August 2021). https://cameroncounts.wordpress.com/2021/09/29/joachim-neubuser/ - C M Campbell, Some examples using coset enumeration, in J Leech (ed.), Computational Problems in Abstract Algebra, Proc. Conf., Oxford, 1967 (Pergamon, Oxford, 1970) - C M Campbell, G Havas and E F Robertson, Addendum to "An elementary introduction to coset table methods in computational group theory", in C M Campbell and E F Robertson (eds.), Groups-St Andrews 1981, St Andrews, 1981 (Second edition), London Math. Soc. Lecture Note Series 71, (Cambridge University Press - C M Campbell and E F Robertson, Twenty-five years of Groups St Andrews conferences, in C M Campbell and E F Robertson (eds.), Groups-St Andrews 1981, St Andrews, 1981 (Second edition), London Math. Soc. Lecture Note Series 71, (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge - C M Campbell and E F Robertson, The orders of certain Metacyclic Groups, Bull. London Math. Soc. 6 (3) (1974), 312-314. - H S M Coxeter, Review: Crystallographic groups of four-dimensional space, by Harold Brown, Rolf Bülow, Joachim Neubüser, Hans Wondratschek and Hans Zassenhaus, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 1 (5) (1979), 792-794. - B Eick and A Hulpke, The death of Joachim Neubüser, Gap Forum (28 September 2021). https://www.gap-system.org/ForumArchive2/2021/006322.html - B Eick, A Hulpke, Alice C Niemeyer, Joachim Neubüser (1932-2021), Obituary, Jahresbericht der Deutschen Mathematiker-Vereinigung 124 (2022), 147-155. - C B Haselgrove, Review: Bestimmung der Untergruppenverbände endlicher p-Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten elektronischen Dualmaschine, by J Neubüser, Mathematical Reviews MR0134436 (24 #B489). - Joachim Neubüser, Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik, RWTH Aachen. http://www.math.rwth-aachen.de/~Joachim.Neubueser/ - Joachim Neubüser: Publications, Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik, RWTH Aachen. http://www.math.rwth-aachen.de/~Joachim.Neubueser/schrift.html - D H Lehmer, Review: Untersuchungen des Untergruppenverbandes endlicher Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten electronischen Dualmaschine (1960), by J Neubüser, Mathematical Reviews MR0117939 (22 #8713). - J Neubüser, Untersuchungen des Untergruppenverbandes endlicher Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten electronischen Dualmaschine, Numer. Math. 2 (1960), 280-292. - J Neubüser, Bestimmung der Untergruppenverbände endlicher p-Gruppen auf einer programmgesteuerten elektronischen Dualmaschine, Numer. Math. 3 (1961), 271-278. - J Neubüser, Investigations of groups on computers, in J Leech (ed.), Computational Problems in Abstract Algebra, Proc. Conf., Oxford, 1967 (Pergamon, Oxford, 1970) - J Neubüser, An invitation to computational group theory, in C M Campbell, T C Hurley, E F Robertson, S J Tobin and J Ward (eds.), Groups '93 Galway/St Andrews Vol. 2, London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series 212 (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge - J Neubüser, The minster at Aachen, Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik, RWTH Aachen (August 1999). - E F Robertson, Report on grant EC 'Computational Group Theory' No ERBCHRXCT930418. - C C Sims, Computation with finitely presented groups (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1994). Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Joachim Neubüser: Other websites about Joachim Neubüser: Honours (show) Honours awarded to Joachim Neubüser Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update February 2023 Last Update February 2023


--- [What's the difference between 'a year' and 'the year'?] ---
# What&#39;s the difference between &#39;a year&#39; and &#39;the year&#39;?

When I should use "a year" and when I should use "the year."


## Accepted Answer

'A year' can be any year without any specification. But 'the year' means a particular/specified year or the one which is already mentioned and thereby known. 
E.g: In a year there are twelve months. (means any year or all years)
     I was born in the year 2000. (in that particular year)

Grammatically 'a/an' is known as indefinite article and 'the' is definite article.

The indefinite article(a/an) refers to things in general and the definite article(the) refers to a particular person or thing. This is the very basic rule pertaining to the use of articles. Actually, in English grammar, perhaps the uses of the articles are the most difficult/confusing topic.
For details on this subject, it is better to consult a good grammar like 'PRACTICAL ENGLISH USAGE' by Michael Swan.

'January is the first month of the year'- here 'the' is used in a sense of 'general plus known', as everybody knows what a year is and how many months are there in a year and what they are.
Sometimes 'the' is used with a singular countable noun to talk about things in general.
See a couple of examples from the above-mentioned grammar:
E.g: 'Schools should pay less attention to examination success, and more attention to the child.' (means all school children, not a particular child)
'The tiger is in danger of becoming extinct.'( means the whole tiger family, not any specific tiger.



--- [Joachim Neubüser - RWTH Aachen University] ---
Prof. em. Dr. Joachim Neubüser Lehrstuhl D für Mathematik RWTH Aachen Templergraben 64 D 52062 Aachen, Germany Telefon: +49-241-8094534 | 1932 | born in Belgard/Pommern; | | 1951/57 | Student, University of Kiel; | | 1957 | Staatsexamen and Dr. rer. nat., University of Kiel; | | 1957/58 | British Council Scholarship, University of Manchester; | | 1958/67 | Assistent, University of Kiel; | | 1967 | Habilitation, University of Kiel; | | 1967/1969 | Wissenschaftlicher Rat, University of Kiel; | | 1969 | o.Prof., Chair LDfM, RWTH Aachen; | | 1986 | Initiated GAP; | | 31.7.1997 | retired. | See also: Publications and Preprints


--- [Joachim Neubüser - Wikipedia] ---
Joachim Neubüser (* 18. Juni 1932 in Belgard, Pommern; † 25. September 2021 in Aachen) war ein deutscher Mathematiker, der sich vorwiegend mit Gruppentheorie befasste und Professor an der RWTH Aachen war.
