=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bruno Kreisky - Wikipedia]
Bruno Kreisky (German: [ˈbʁuːno ˈkʁaɪ̯ski]; 22 January 1911 - 29 July 1990) was an Austrian social democratic politician who served as foreign minister from 1959 to 1966 and as chancellor from 1970 to 1983.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruno_Kreisky

[Bruno Kreisky (1911-1990) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree]
When the Socialist Party was banned by the authorities in 1934, Bruno Kreisky became active in underground political work. He was arrested in 1935; in 1936 he was convicted of treason and imprisoned. He was released in June of that year. Following the annexation of Austria by Germany in 1938, he emigrated to Sweden. He married Vera Fürth in 1942.
URL: https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Kreisky-1

[Bruno Kreisky Marriages and Divorces - strictlyweddings.com]
How long was Bruno Kreisky married for? Bruno Kreisky was married to Vera Fürth for 46 years. Their longest marriage (that we know of) was 46 years to Vera Fürth.
URL: https://www.strictlyweddings.com/info/notable-marriages/bruno-kreisky-82917

[Bruno Kreisky - Bruno Kreisky Forum für internationalen Dialog]
Bruno Kreisky stands undoubtedly as the most prominent and influential politician to emerge in post-war Austria. For some thirty years, he helped to shape his country's politics and raise its status in the world, first as Under Secretary of State (1953-1958), as Foreign Minister (1959-1966), then as leader of the opposition Social Democratic ...
URL: https://www.kreisky-forum.org/en/bruno-kreisky/

[Bruno Kreisky Facts for Kids]
Bruno Kreisky (German: [ˈbʁuːno ˈkʁaɪ̯ski]; 22 January 1911 - 29 July 1990) was an important Austrian politician. He was a member of the Social Democratic Party. He served as Foreign Minister from 1959 to 1966. Later, he became Chancellor from 1970 to 1983. His 13 years as Chancellor was the longest time any Chancellor served in Austria after World War II. This period is often called ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Bruno_Kreisky


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bruno Kreisky - Wikipedia] ---
Bruno Kreisky (German: [ˈbʁuːno ˈkʁaɪ̯ski]; 22 January 1911 – 29 July 1990) was an Austrian social democratic politician who served as foreign minister from 1959 to 1966 and as chancellor from 1970 to 1983. Aged 72, he was the oldest chancellor after World War II.
Kreisky's 13-year tenure was the longest of any chancellor in republican Austria and, as an influential political figure in Western European social democracy, he worked closely with like-minded leaders Willy Brandt of West Germany and Olof Palme of Sweden in the Socialist International.


--- [Bruno Kreisky (1911-1990) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree] ---
Biography Bruno Kreisky was the Federal Chancellor (the head of government) of Austria from 1970 to 1983. He was born in 1911 in the Margareten district, Vienna, Austria, to a non-observant Jewish family. He joined the Young Socialist Workers ( Sozialistische Arbeiterjugend) in 1927. He studied law at the University of Vienna. When the Socialist Party was banned by the authorities in 1934, Bruno Kreisky became active in underground political work. He was arrested in 1935; in 1936 he was convicted of treason and imprisoned. He was released in June of that year. Following the annexation of Austria by Germany in 1938, he emigrated to Sweden. He married Vera Fürth in 1942. In 1946, following the Second World War, he was assigned to the Austrian legation in Sweden. He returned to Austria in 1951 and was appointed Assistant Chief of Staff and political adviser by Theodor Körner, the Federal President of Austria. In 1953 he became "Staatssekretär" (similar to an undersecretary) for Foreign Affairs in the Austrian Federal Government. In this capacity, he took part in the negotiations in Moscow, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, that preceded the conclusion of the 1955 Austrian Independence Treaty. He was elected to the Austrian "Nationalrat" (the elected lower house of the Austrian Parliament) in 1956. From 1959 to 1966, he was the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Austria. In 1970 he became the Federal Chancellor, serving until he resigned in 1983. He is considered by many to have been the most successful socialist Chancellor of Austria. He passed away in 1990. Sources - Wikipedia: Bruno Kreisky. - https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruno_Kreisky (German Wikipedia).


--- [Bruno Kreisky Marriages and Divorces - strictlyweddings.com] ---
Austrian diplomat and chancellor (1911 - 1990) Bruno Kreisky was married to Vera Fürth in 1942. Bruno Kreisky was married in 1942 to Vera Fürth. Bruno Kreisky was married to Vera Fürth for 46 years. Their longest marriage (that we know of) was 46 years to Vera Fürth. Bruno Kreisky has been married once, in 1942 (that we know of). Bruno Kreisky has not been divorced (that we know of). Bruno Kreisky has not been divorced (that we know of). | Spouse | Married | Marriage End | |---|---|---| | Vera Fürth | 1942 | 1988 | Spotted a mistake? Please do let us know! We obtain this information from publically accessible sources, by doing additional research as well as information submitted by users and we endeavor to make sure it's correct. However, StrictlyWeddings.com is not responsible for any errors or omissions, or for the results obtained from the use of this information. All information on this site is provided "as is", with no guarantee of completeness, accuracy, timeliness or of the results obtained from the use of this information. Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that information you receive from this page is correct.


--- [Bruno Kreisky - Bruno Kreisky Forum für internationalen Dialog] ---
Bruno Kreisky Bruno Kreisky (1911 – 1990) Bruno Kreisky stands undoubtedly as the most prominent and influential politician to emerge in post-war Austria. For some thirty years, he helped to shape his country’s politics and raise its status in the world, first as Under Secretary of State (1953-1958), as Foreign Minister (1959-1966), then as leader of the opposition Social Democratic Party, and finally as Chancellor from 1970 to 1983. During his long tenure of public office, Austria achieved unprecedented levels of prosperity, whilst he promoted electoral, educational and legal reform and weathered the occasional scandal. Kreisky tried simultaneously to broaden and deepen democracy in Austria and to intensify the dialogue with the international community. Bruno Kreisky was born in Vienna, Austria, on January 22, 1911, into a middle class Jewish family. Angered by the poverty and violence around him in Austria between the Wars, Kreisky joined the “Socialist Working Youth” (SAJ) when he was 16. During the authoritarian Schuschnigg-Regime he was arrested in 1935 and imprisoned for 1 ½ years. The Nazi regime put him back into a Gestapo jail in March 1938 and forced him to immigrate in September of that year to Sweden, where he married Vera Fürth. Despite his efforts to return to Austria in 1946 he was kept out of the country as a diplomat in Sweden and returned home only in 1951. Kreisky at that point started his political career as advisor to the then President Theodor Körner. Having been appointed Undersecretary of State in the Foreign Affairs Department of the Austrian Chancellery, he participated in the decisive negotiations leading to the Austrian State Treaty of 1955 and the Neutrality Law, ending a ten year post-war period of four-power allied administration of Austria. His analytical mind and intelligence were much appreciated by statesmen in East and West as well as in the academic world, as were his deeply felt humanism, integrity, untiring advocacy of tolerance and social justice, and his earnest sense of responsibility. These won him the trust and admiration of the leading international figures of his era, including Willy Brandt, Indira Ghandi, John F. Kennedy, Charles de Gaulle, Anwar al-Sadat, Henry Kissinger and François Mitterrand. His international connections and his position as leader of a neutral state allowed him to assume the role of honest broker in international peace, human rights, and development initiatives. While heading the government from 1970 to 1983, Bruno Kreisky strode the international stage as an advocate of Palestinian self-determination, of European détente and of North-South dialogue. He worked continuously towards realising the Conference of Security and Cooperation in Europe, and never gave up his interventions in favour of suppressed opposition leaders in Communist countries. As a result of such activity, Kreisky was respected and praised by every U.S. and Soviet administration from Kennedy to Brezhnev, despite his support for the containment of Soviet communism and sharp critique of U.S. Cold War policies and arms build-up under President Reagan. In his late years he realized that the world had completely changed and that Europe would be recreated after the end of the Cold War, and he was therefore emotionally very sad not to be able to participate in the shaping of a new era. Bruno Kreisky died on 29 July 1990. In the eulogy delivered at Bruno Kreisky’s funeral, the German Statesman and Nobel Prize recipient Willy Brandt remarked, “What do we do with this, our debt of gratitude? I believe that we discharge it by keeping alive as much as possible of that for which he strove.” This statement is a powerful dictum for the future work of the Bruno Kreisky Forum. (© Oliver Rathkolb)


--- [Bruno Kreisky Facts for Kids] ---
Bruno Kreisky facts for kids Quick facts for kids Bruno Kreisky | | |---|---| | Kreisky, photographed in 1983 | | | Chancellor of Austria | | | In office 21 August 1970 – 24 May 1983 | | | President | | | Vice-Chancellor | | | Preceded by | Josef Klaus | | Succeeded by | Fred Sinowatz | | Chair of the Social Democratic Party | | | In office 1 February 1967 – 27 October 1983 | | | Preceded by | Bruno Pittermann | | Succeeded by | Fred Sinowatz | | Minister of Foreign Affairs | | | In office 16 July 1959 – 19 April 1966 | | | Chancellor | | | Preceded by | Leopold Figl | | Succeeded by | Lujo Tončić-Sorinj | | Personal details | | | Born | Vienna, Austria-Hungary | 22 January 1911 | Died | 29 July 1990 Vienna, Austria | (aged 79) | Resting place | Vienna Central Cemetery | | Political party | Social Democratic Party | | Spouse | Vera Fürth (m. 1942; died 1988) | | Children | 2 | | Education | University of Vienna | Bruno Kreisky (German: [ˈbʁuːno ˈkʁaɪ̯ski]; 22 January 1911 – 29 July 1990) was an important Austrian politician. He was a member of the Social Democratic Party. He served as Foreign Minister from 1959 to 1966. Later, he became Chancellor from 1970 to 1983. His 13 years as Chancellor was the longest time any Chancellor served in Austria after World War II. This period is often called the "Kreisky era." He is seen as one of the most important political leaders in Austria. He also worked closely with other social democratic leaders in Europe, like Willy Brandt from West Germany and Olof Palme from Sweden. Early Life and Political Journey Bruno Kreisky was born in Margareten, a part of Vienna, Austria. His family was Jewish, but they were not very religious. His father worked in the textile business. When he was 15, in 1925, he was shocked by the poverty and violence in Austria. This led him to join the youth group of the Socialist Party. In 1929, he started studying law at the University of Vienna. He stayed active in politics during his studies. In 1934, the Socialist Party was banned by the government. Bruno Kreisky continued his political work secretly. He was arrested in 1935 but was released in 1936. In March 1938, Austria became part of Germany. This event was called the Anschluss. To escape the persecution of Jewish people by the Nazis, Kreisky moved to Sweden in September 1938. He stayed there until 1945. In Sweden, he married Vera Fürth in 1942, and they had two children. Returning to Austria and Key Roles Bruno Kreisky came back to Austria in May 1946. He soon returned to Stockholm to work for the Austrian government. In 1951, he moved back to Vienna. There, he became an important adviser to the Austrian President. In 1953, he was made Undersecretary in the Foreign Affairs Department. In this role, he helped negotiate the 1955 Austrian State Treaty. This treaty was very important because it ended the occupation of Austria by four powers. It also made Austria independent and neutral again. Becoming a Member of Parliament Kreisky was elected to the Austrian parliament, called the Nationalrat, in 1956. He became a key member of the Socialist Party's leadership. After the 1959 election, he became the Foreign Minister. He kept this job under different Chancellors. He played a big part in creating the European Free Trade Association. He also helped solve a problem with Italy about the South Tyrol region. He even suggested a "Marshall Plan" to help developing countries. In 1966, the opposing party, the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP), won a majority of seats. They decided to govern alone, ending the "grand coalition" that had ruled Austria since 1945. Kreisky resigned from his government position. Leading the Socialist Party In February 1967, Bruno Kreisky was chosen as the chairman of the Socialist Party. In the March 1970 elections, the Socialists won 81 seats. This was almost a majority. Kreisky then became the first Socialist Chancellor since 1920. He led the first government in modern Austrian history made only of left-wing politicians. He was also Austria's first Jewish Chancellor. Kreisky's government was supported by the Freedom Party. In return, they passed reforms that made elections fairer. After these reforms, he called for new elections in October 1971. Even though the reforms were meant to help smaller parties, the Socialists won a strong majority with 93 seats. They also won half of all the votes, which no Austrian party had ever done in a free election. Kreisky was reelected in 1975 and 1979. Each time, his party won comfortably. End of Chancellorship In 1981, Kreisky turned 70. Voters started to feel he was too focused on international issues. In the 1983 election, the Socialists lost their absolute majority. Kreisky decided not to form a government that didn't have a majority. He resigned and suggested Fred Sinowatz as his replacement. Kreisky's health began to decline. He had a kidney transplant in 1984. He passed away in Vienna in July 1990. Key Ideas and Programs As Chancellor, Bruno Kreisky and his Justice Minister, Christian Broda, brought many modern changes to Austria. They improved family laws and prisons. Kreisky also worked to improve relations between the Catholic Church and the Socialist movement. He promised to reduce the time people had to serve in the military. After he was elected, military service was shortened. Social Reforms During Kreisky's time as Chancellor, many progressive reforms were made. - Employee benefits were improved. - The workweek was shortened to 40 hours. - Laws were passed to ensure equality for women. - His government also protected the language rights of the Slovene and Croatian minorities in Austria. - The penal code (laws about crimes) was updated. - Discrimination against children born outside of marriage was removed. - Grants were given for marriages. - A "mother-child pass" program was started for health care during pregnancy and for babies. - Four weeks of paid vacation were introduced for workers. - An ombudsman office was created to help citizens with government issues. - Laws were passed to protect consumers. - Self-employed people gained social security coverage. - In 1979, rules were made to protect employees from being fired unfairly. Health and Education Improvements - In 1970, pensions for widows were linked to inflation. - In 1972, free medical check-ups became available for healthy people. - Optional health insurance for students was introduced. - Periods of study, illness, and unemployment could count towards pension eligibility. - In 1974, family and birth benefits were also linked to inflation. - The 1973 Special Subsidies Act helped people who lost their jobs due to big economic changes. - The 1974 Wage Continuation Act made sure workers in private companies still got paid if they were sick. - In 1976, accident insurance was expanded to cover work-related activities. - A 1981 law introduced special early retirement for people doing heavy manual work. Full sick pay was given to blue-collar workers in 1974. Family benefits were expanded to include: - Full school transport (1971). - A marriage payment (1972). - Payment for school books (1974). - A birth payment (1976). Between 1973 and 1980, spending on health and education increased a lot. In education, the number of students per teacher decreased. A new university law in 1975 made higher education more accessible. Many more Austrians were able to go to university. Other Important Laws - The 1972 Crime Victims Act provided compensation for people harmed by crimes. - The 1974 Town Renovation Act helped improve residential areas in towns. - The 1975 Housing Property Act established the rights of house and apartment owners. - In 1975, housing support was expanded to cover costs of home improvements. - In 1974, the time off for mothers before and after childbirth was extended to 8 weeks. This was also extended to adoptive mothers in 1976. - A 1981 law updated pension plans and introduced a widower's pension, similar to a widow's pension. - In 1976, accident insurance was introduced for students. - A law passed in 1976 allowed people to take care of sick close relatives. - The 1979 Bankruptcy Wage Continuation Act ensured workers were paid if their company went bankrupt. - In 1982, self-employed women received a maternity allowance for 16 weeks. International Relations Kreisky was very active in international affairs. He encouraged talks between North Korea and South Korea. He also worked with leaders like Willy Brandt and Olof Palme to promote peace and development around the world. Even though Austria could not join the European Union because of the 1955 State Treaty, Kreisky supported European cooperation. Austria became a bridge between Eastern and Western countries. Vienna hosted important talks between the United States and the Soviet Union about limiting weapons. Kreisky, who was Jewish, had unique views on Zionism (the movement for a Jewish homeland). He believed Jews were a religious group, not an ethnic group. However, he did not oppose the existence of Israel. He had friendly relations with the Israeli Labor Party. He also became friends with Arab leaders like Anwar Sadat and Muammar Gaddafi. In 1980, Austria established relations with the Palestine Liberation Organization. He tried to use his position to help mediate between Israel and Arab nations. Disagreements and Legacy Kreisky faced some criticism for appointing politicians who had been members of the Nazi party in their youth. When Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal pointed this out, Kreisky defended his choices. He believed that people had the right to make political mistakes when they were young. This led to a long and public disagreement between Kreisky and Wiesenthal. In 1976, the Bruno Kreisky Foundation for Human Rights was created to celebrate his 65th birthday. Every two years, the Bruno Kreisky Human Rights Prize is given to someone who has done great work for human rights around the world. Later in his life, Kreisky tried to help some people who were speaking out against the Soviet government. What People Remember Today, people have different opinions about Kreisky's time as Chancellor. Many of his supporters remember him as a great socialist leader. They recall a time when the standard of living in Austria was rising. The welfare state (government support for citizens) was strong, and children from working-class families were encouraged to get higher education. This led to a time of prosperity and hope for the future. Some critics, however, point to Kreisky's policy of spending more money than the government earned. He famously said he preferred the government to have high debts rather than people being unemployed. These critics believe his policies caused economic problems for Austria later on. Despite these different views, Bruno Kreisky greatly changed Austria during his time in office. He improved working conditions, raised the average standard of living, and expanded the welfare state. He is still considered one of Austria's most successful socialist Chancellors. See also In Spanish: Bruno Kreisky para niños - Chancellor of Austria for a complete list of Federal Chancellors since the founding of the Republic in 1918 - Kreisky-Peter-Wiesenthal affair
