=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[2019 Word of the Year is "(My) Pronouns," Word of the Decade is ...]
HILTON NEW ORLEANS RIVERSIDE, NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA—JAN. 3—In its 30th annual words of the year vote, the American Dialect Society voted for " (my) pronouns " as its Word of the Year (2019) and singular "they" as its Word of the Decade (2010-2019).
URL: https://americandialect.org/2019-word-of-the-year-is-my-pronouns-word-of-the-decade-is-singular-they/

['They' Named as 'Word of the Year' by American Dialect Society - Trill Mag]
Jan 11, 2020 · Image via New York Post The American Dialect Society has announced the word of the decade (2010-2019) is the singular “they” and “ (my) pronouns” as the Word of the Year for 2019. This year also marked the 30th annual year for the American Dialect Society Word of the Year vote. Members in the 131-year-old organization include linguists, lexicographers, etymologists, grammarians ...
URL: https://www.trillmag.com/interesting/they-named-as-word-of-the-year-by-american-dialect-society/

['They' is the word of the decade - Social Good]
Jan 4, 2020 · The Word of the Decade 2010-2019 is gender-neutral singular "they"! #wordofthedecade #woty19 — American Dialect Society (@americandialect) January 4, 2020 The other contenders in the category included #BlackLivesMatter, climate, #MeToo, meme, emoji, opiod crisis, selfie, and woke, according to the society's official Twitter account.
URL: https://sea.mashable.com/social-good/8375/they-is-the-word-of-the-decade

['They' voted 'word of the decade' by American linguist group]
Jan 7, 2020 · At a Jan. 3 meeting, language experts in the linguist society voted “they” as the Word of the Decade for 2010 through 2019, recognized for the pronoun’s “growing use to refer to a known ...
URL: https://www.foxnews.com/lifestyle/they-voted-word-of-the-decade-american-linguist-group

[Word of the Decade: Singular 'they' crowned by American linguists]
Jan 12, 2020 · The American Dialect Society also bestowed its word of the year honors on the increasingly common practice of introducing oneself in correspondence or socially by the set of pronouns one prefers to be called by declaring in an email. The Word of the Decade 2010-2019 is gender-neutral singular "they"! #wordofthedecade #woty19
URL: https://www.englishforward.com/news/word-of-the-decade-they-crowned/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [2019 Word of the Year is "(My) Pronouns," Word of the Decade is ...] ---
HILTON NEW ORLEANS RIVERSIDE, NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA—JAN. 3—In its 30th annual words of the year vote, the American Dialect Society voted for “(my) pronouns” as its Word of the Year (2019) and singular “they” as its Word of the Decade (2010-2019). “(My) pronouns” was recognized for its use as an introduction for sharing one’s set of personal pronouns (as in “pronouns: she/her”), while singular “they” was recognized for its growing use to refer to a known person whose gender identity is nonbinary. Singular “they” was previously selected by the ADS as the 2015 Word of the Year. Presiding at the Jan. 3 voting session was Ben Zimmer, chair of the American Dialect Society’s New Words Committee and language columnist for the Wall Street Journal. “When a basic part of speech like the pronoun becomes a vital indicator of social trends, linguists pay attention,” Zimmer said. “The selection of “(my) pronouns” as Word of the Year speaks to how the personal expression of gender identity has become an increasing part of our shared discourse. That trend is also reflected in singular “they” being chosen as Word of the Decade, with a growing recognition of the use of they for those whose identities don’t conform to the binary of he and she.” Word of the Year is interpreted in its broader sense as “vocabulary item”—not just words but phrases. The words or phrases do not have to be brand-new, but they have to be newly prominent or notable in the past year. The vote is the longest-running such vote anywhere, the only one not tied to commercial interests, and the word-of-the-year event up to which all others lead. It is fully informed by the members’ expertise in the study of words, but it is far from a solemn occasion. Members in the 131-year-old organization include linguists, lexicographers, etymologists, grammarians, historians, researchers, writers, editors, students, and independent scholars. In conducting the vote, they act in fun and do not pretend to be officially inducting words into the English language. Instead, they are highlighting that language change is normal, ongoing, and entertaining. In a companion vote, sibling organization the American Name Society voted “Arrokoth” (the name of a far-flung minor planet) as Name of the Year for 2019 in its fifteenth annual name-of-the-year contest. Read the full press release, including all winners, candidates, and vote tallies for all candidates.


--- ['They' Named as 'Word of the Year' by American Dialect Society - Trill Mag] ---
Image via New York Post The American Dialect Society has announced the word of the decade (2010-2019) is the singular “they” and “(my) pronouns” as the Word of the Year for 2019. This year also marked the 30th annual year for the American Dialect Society Word of the Year vote. Members in the 131-year-old organization include linguists, lexicographers, etymologists, grammarians, historians, researchers, writers, editors, students, and independent scholars,” Ben Zimmer, chair of the American Dialect Society’s New Words Committee and language columnist for the Wall Street Journal explains. “When a basic part of speech like the pronoun becomes a vital indicator of social trends, linguists pay attention.” The Word of the Decade and Word of the Year selection was a nod to the ongoing conversations around gender and gender identity according to Zimmer. “’(My) pronouns’ as Word of the Year speaks to how the personal expression of gender identity has become an increasing part of our shared discourse. That trend is also reflected in singular ‘they’ being chosen as Word of the Decade, with a growing recognition of the use of they for those whose identities don’t conform to the binary of he and she.” The words or phrases chosen do not need to be new words, but do need to be new to conversations or discourse. For example, in 2009, the word of the year was “tweet, noun, a short message sent via the Twitter.com service, and verb, the act of sending such a message” and the Word of the Decade was “google, verb, to search the Internet. Generic form of the trademarked ‘Google,’ the world’s dominant Internet search engine.” You can find the complete list of winning words here, including categories such as “Political Word of the Year,” “Digital Word of the Year,” “Slang/Informal Word of the Year,” “WTF Word of the Year,” “Hashtag of the Year,” and even “Emoji of the Year.” Click here for more “Of the Year” winners.


--- ['They' is the word of the decade - Social Good] ---
Words matter — especially to those at the American Dialect Society. So it spoke volumes when the top linguists who make up the group voted to crown the singular pronoun "they" as the Word of the Decade at its annual meeting on Friday. The Word of the Decade 2010-2019 is gender-neutral singular "they"! #wordofthedecade #woty19 — American Dialect Society (@americandialect) January 4, 2020 The other contenders in the category included #BlackLivesMatter, climate, #MeToo, meme, emoji, opiod crisis, selfie, and woke, according to the society's official Twitter account. It initially came down to a runoff between "meme" (at 110 votes) and "they" (128), with only singular votes cast for "emoji" and "opioid crisis." The prominence of "meme" came a bit as a surprise, since the phenomenon of memes was certainly not exclusive to the decade. Early examples of widely spread memes like the "can has cheezburger" cat date back to 2007. To be fair, memes certainly became a more mainstream mainstay in the last 10 years. American Dialect Society Blake Zimmer argued for "meme" because "memes are eternal" and categorized many of other nominees in the category as memes themselves, according to live tweets of the meeting. "They" ultimately feels like the more decade-appropriate winner, however, since some of the biggest gatekeepers of the English language officially accepted it in the past 10 years, like when the American Psychological Association officially added it to their guidebook and Merriam Webster named it their 2019 Word of the Year. Another member of the society, Kirby Conrod, spoke to how "they" was the only entry on the list that also doubled as a major grammatical change. More voices for "meme" for #wordofthedecade Jessi Grieser also advocates for "they" as a change in a closed class, as well as a reference to the prior Word of the Millennium, "she".#woty19 #wordofthedecade— American Dialect Society (@americandialect) January 4, 2020 In Mashable's own list of words and phrases that defined the decade, the singular "they" was also highlighted along with other inclusivity-related words like "nonbinary" and "genderqueer." Though the American Dialect Society was founded in the 19th century, only two other words have ever been selected for the Word of the Decade honor. "Web" won the 1990s, while the verb "Google" reigned over the 2000s. Entries for the 2019 Word of the Year included “OK Boomer,” “(my) pronouns,” "cancel,” and “Karen.” Ultimately, "OK Boomer" was the runner up at 88 votes and "(my) pronouns" won with 161. "(My) pronouns" refer to a practice of telling people how to refer to you. Phrases such as she/her, he/him, or they/them could be seen popping up on online profiles throughout 2019. Notably, both the year and decade winners reflect the enormous impact our evolving lexicon around gender identity has had on the American language and society.


--- ['They' voted 'word of the decade' by American linguist group] ---
Small but mighty, the personal singular pronoun “they” has been crowned the “word of the decade” by the American Dialect Society (ADS.) At a Jan. 3 meeting, language experts in the linguist society voted “they” as the Word of the Decade for 2010 through 2019, recognized for the pronoun’s “growing use to refer to a known person whose gender identity is non-binary.” As for Word of the Year, members selected “(my) pronouns” — such as she/her, he/him and they/them. “When a basic part of speech like the pronoun becomes a vital indicator of social trends, linguists pay attention. The selection of “(my) pronouns” as Word of the Year speaks to how the personal expression of gender identity has become an increasing part of our shared discourse,” said Ben Zimmer, chair of the society’s New Words Committee. 'EXISTENTIAL,' 'CLIMATE EMERGENCY' CHOSEN AS WORDS OF THE YEAR “The selection of “(my) pronouns” as Word of the Year speaks to how the personal expression of gender identity has become an increasing part of our shared discourse,” Zimmer continued. “That trend is also reflected in singular “they” being chosen as Word of the Decade, with a growing recognition of the use of ‘they’ for those whose identities don’t conform to the binary of he and she.” Close contenders for the 2010-2019 Word of the Decade included “#BlackLivesMatter,” “climate,” “emoji,” “meme,” “#MeToo,” “opioid crisis,” “selfie” and “woke.” Meanwhile, “OK boomer,” “cancel” and "Karen” were respective runners-up for the 2019 Word of the Year, per a news release. Linguists, lexicographers, etymologists, grammarians, historians, researchers, writers, editors, scholars and students comprise the 131-year-old ADS group, according to the release. In a larger sense, the group describes its Word of the Year as “interpreted in its broader sense as ‘vocabulary item’ — not just words but phrases.” “The words or phrases do not have to be brand-new, but they have to be newly prominent or notable in the past year,” ADS explains. FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS In related headlines, Merriam-Webster also recently declared “they” as its 2019 Word of the Year. “They” seized the top spot in the annual, data-driven list after receiving a 313-percent search increase on the dictionary publisher’s website in comparison with 2018, the Associated Press reports. In September, Merriam-Webster expanded the definition of “they” as relating to a person whose gender identity is non-binary. Weeks later, the American Psychological Association recognized “they” as a singular third-person pronoun in its latest scholarly writing style guide. In 2019, “they” seized the spotlight and reportedly drove people to the dictionary after non-binary model Oslo Grace rocked the catwalk at Paris Fashion Week in January, Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.) spoke about her gender-nonconforming child while advocating for LGBTQ rights legislation during a House committee hearing in April and historic Pride celebrations were commemorated in June. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP In September, pop star Sam Smith also revealed on social media that their preferred pronouns were “they” and “them,” an announcement inspired by a “lifetime of being at war with my gender." As for other famous words of the year, Dictionary.com declared "existential" as its 2019 Word of the Year, while the Oxford Dictionaries chose "climate emergency" and Macquarie Dictionary, an Australian English dictionary, selected “cancel culture” for their respective words of the year. The Associated Press contributed to this report.


--- [Word of the Decade: Singular 'they' crowned by American linguists] ---
The singular pronoun “they” has been voted word of the decade by linguists in the United States of America, who said it embodied 2010 to 2020. According to the American linguists, “they” was chosen as their Word of the Decade because of the growing use of third-person plural pronouns as a singular form to refer to people who identify their gender as neither entirely male nor entirely female. The American Dialect Society also bestowed its word of the year honors on the increasingly common practice of introducing oneself in correspondence or socially by the set of pronouns one prefers to be called by declaring in an email. The Word of the Decade 2010-2019 is gender-neutral singular "they"! #wordofthedecade #woty19 — American Dialect Society (@americandialect) January 4, 2020 Ben Zimmer, a linguist, and lexicographer chaired the group as two awards were given out in New Orleans by about 350 members of the society at its annual meeting of academics, graduate students, and word lovers who voted by a show of hands, for the word of the decade. The most popular pick for the Word of the Year is the pronoun “My,” a reflection of “how the personal expression of gender identity has become an increasing part of our shared discourse,” the society said in a statement announcing the outcome. Linguists, lexicographers, etymologists, grammarians, historians, researchers, writers, editors, scholars, and students comprise the 131-year-old ADS group. Other Word of the Decade nominations #BlackLivesMatter; the hashtag used to protest alleged disparities in police use of force against African Americans. Climate change, reflecting increased interest in the impact of climate change. #MeToo; the movement that has highlighted widespread patterns of sexual abuse and harassment that women have faced at the hands of men across many spheres of life, including business, politics, and entertainment. Notably, the group was founded in 1889 and aimed at the study of the English language in North America, just like English Forum is aimed at enhancing the English language generally. The group started selecting its “Word of the Year” in 1991 and since then has picked only two other Word of the Decade winners. Top choices were “Web” for the 1990s and “Google” as a verb for the 2000s. Other Word of the Year nominations for 2019 included: Cancel; meaning to withdraw support from someone or something that is considered problematic or unacceptable, used in the phrase “cancel culture.” Karen; the stereotype of a complaining, self-important, demanding white woman, typically a member of Generation X or “Generation Karen.” OK Boomer; described as a retort to someone older, typically a member of the Baby Boom generation, who expresses views that are out-of-touch or condescending to young people and their concerns. Various group reactions The declaration of “they” as the Word of the Decade, has aroused joy and approval by multiple groups and individuals. Popstar Sam Smith expressed his approval on social media, noting that their preferred pronouns were “they” and “them,” an announcement inspired by a lifetime of being at war with my gender. Pramila Jayapal spoke about her gender-nonconforming child while advocating for LGBTQ rights legislation during a House committee hearing in April, and historic Pride celebrations were commemorated in June. In related headlines, Merriam-Webster also recently declared “they” as its 2019 Word of the Year. “They” seized the top spot in the annual, data-driven list after receiving a 313-percent search increase on the dictionary publisher’s website in comparison with 2018.
