=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Line B (Buenos Aires Underground) - Wikipedia]
Line B opened to the public on 17 October 1930. [3][4] In recent years, it has held the title of being the most used line of the Buenos Aires Underground, and its patronage has increased even more after the opening of a section of tunnel between Los Incas station in the neighbourhood of Parque Chas and a shopping centre in Villa Urquiza.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Line_B_(Buenos_Aires_Underground)

[Line B (Buenos Aires subway) - AcademiaLab]
The line B of the Buenos Aires subway, opened to the public on October 17, 1930, stretches for 11.8 km between Leandro N. Alem and Juan Manuel de Rosas. This was the last station inaugurated on the line, in July 2013, next to the Echeverría Station. In recent years, it has held the title of being the line most used by locals. It was the first line in Buenos Aires whose stations had turnstiles ...
URL: https://academia-lab.com/encyclopedia/line-b-buenos-aires-subway/

[Line B (Buenos Aires Underground) - Wikiwand]
In recent years, it has held the title of being the most used line of the Buenos Aires Underground, and its patronage has increased even more after the opening of a section of tunnel between Los Incas station in the neighbourhood of Parque Chas and a shopping centre in Villa Urquiza. It was the first line in Buenos Aires whose stations had turnstiles and moving stairways.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Line_B_(Buenos_Aires_Metro)

[Line B (Buenos Aires Underground) - Alchetron]
In recent years, it has held the title of being the most used line, and increased even more so after the opening of a section of tunnel between Los Incas station in the neighborhood of Parque Chas and a shopping centre in Villa Urquiza. It was the first line in Buenos Aires whose stations had turnstiles and moving stairways. It is the only line that uses third rail current collection, while ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/Line-B-%28Buenos-Aires-Underground%29

[Between - Best App for Couples]
Between is a private space where you can share each moment only with that special someone. Create, share, and remember all your moments with each other. Get started now!
URL: https://between.us/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Line B (Buenos Aires Underground) - Wikipedia] ---
Line B of the Buenos Aires Underground runs 11.75 kilometres (7.30 mi) from Leandro N. Alem to Juan Manuel de Rosas in Villa Urquiza. Line B opened to the public on 17 October 1930.
In recent years, it has held the title of being the most used line of the Buenos Aires Underground, and its patronage has increased even more after the opening of a section of tunnel between Los Incas station in the neighbourhood of Parque Chas and a shopping centre in Villa Urquiza. It was the first line in Buenos Aires whose stations had turnstiles and moving stairways.
It is the only line that uses third rail current collection, while the rest of the Underground lines collect electric current from overhead lines, although there has been ongoing conversion to overhead lines to incorporate new rolling stock. Its gauge of 4 ft 8+1⁄2 in (1,435 mm) is the same as the rest of the Buenos Aires underground system.
The rolling stock currently used on the B line are former Tokyo Metro (formerly Eidan Subway) 300/500/900 stock, which was used on Marunouchi Line, and CAF 6000 stock. The Japanese units were acquired in the early 1990s, and offer less sitting room than the previous rolling stock, increasing the line's capacity during peak hours. The Japanese trains have been partially supplanted by CAF 6000 rolling stock, acquired in 2013 from the Madrid Metro.


--- [Line B (Buenos Aires subway) - AcademiaLab] ---
Line B (Buenos Aires subway) The line B of the Buenos Aires subway, opened to the public on October 17, 1930, stretches for 11.8 km between Leandro N. Alem and Juan Manuel de Rosas. This was the last station inaugurated on the line, in July 2013, next to the Echeverría Station. In recent years, it has held the title of being the line most used by locals. It was the first line in Buenos Aires whose stations had turnstiles and escalators. It has marked differences with the other lines of the network, since it is the only one that uses electric current capture by third rail, in addition to presenting a gauge that is noticeably wider (3.10 m, against the standard of 2.6 m of the grid). Its gauge is 1435 mm (standard). and it is connected to the Urquiza Line, with which it shares a gauge and feeding system, through tunnels at the Federico Lacroze station. It uses Mitsubishi trains of Japanese origin, built in 1959, and complementary Spanish CAF trains (5000 and 6000 series). The travel time between headwaters takes about 30 min. When the excavation for the construction of the Leandro N. Alem station was being carried out, the remains of an "elephant" American from the Quaternary Era, which were sent to the Museum of Natural Sciences of La Plata. Many years later, during the works to extend the line in the opposite direction, a glyptodont fossil was found in Villa Ortúzar, which is currently on display at the Tronador station. History | Leandro N. Alem | | | Florida | | | Carlos Pellegrini | | | Uruguay | | | Shut up. | | | Pasteur | | | Pueyrredon | | | Carlos Gardel | | | Medrano | | | Angel Gallardo | | | Malabia | | | Dorrego | | | Federico Lacroze | | | Colour of friezes in 1930 and 1931 | In 1912, the Congress of the Argentine Nation enacted Law 8,870 for the construction of the line that would join the Central Post Office and the intersection of Triunvirato and Elcano streets, where the Central Railway of Buenos Aires was located, through an 8.7 km tunnel. The law established that the work would "partially relieve traffic congestion in the central area of the city". On December 17, 1927, the financial agreement to build it was signed in New York, between Teófilo Lacroze, the president of Banco de la Nación Dr. Tomás de Estrada, Dr. Luis J. Rocca, head of the Railroad board of directors Buenos Aires Terminal and the bankers Harris and Forbes. Thus, the concession for the passenger, parcel and cargo line was granted to the company Lacroze Hermanos. Construction was conducted by Dwight P. Robinson & Cía, and the line was called Ferrocarril Terminal Central de Buenos Aires. The first section between Lacroze and Callao was inaugurated on October 17, 1930 and measured 7,021 km. The inaugural trip was made by the de facto president José Félix Uriburu. He June 22 of the following year it was extended to the Carlos Pellegrini station. Finally the line was completed on December 1, 1931 when the subway reached the Leandro N. Alem station. These three sections were carried out in their entirety under Corrientes Avenue, they include 19 curves and 13 stations. Depending on the depth of the route, some sections were made in an open trench or through a gallery or tunnel. This is how the Federico Lacroze, Dorrego, Canning (current Malabia), Rio de Janeiro (current Ángel Gallardo) and Medrano stations were built in an open trench. Upon reaching Maipú street, the tunnel reached its maximum depth of 17 m. This line had escalators and turnstiles to pay for the service that worked with coins, originally manufactured in the United States; previously it was controlled by guards. It was also deeper than Line A, and just like Line A, each station was decorated with friezes in characteristic colors. On June 12, 1933, the underground link to the Mercado de Abasto subsoil was inaugurated, through which the freight wagons of the Buenos Aires Central Railroad arrived. Although it is no longer used, it is possible to see it next to the main branch. Initially the line had 56 English cars Metropolitan Cammell, with a metal body and two bogies, painted cream and red and with a capacity for 47 seated people. Each car had 3 double-leaf sliding doors on each side, at the height of the platform, whose opening and closing was commanded by the guard, and had two 105 HP motors. Then 20 North American Osgood-Bradley cars were incorporated. Between 1965 and 1967, 14 similar cars were purchased from Military Fabrications, and between 1977 and 1979, 20 units with Siemens 195 HP engines. The system adopted for the electrical supply of the formations was the third rail with 600 Vdc, while the cars, unlike the then existing Line "A", had from the beginning a profile or "gauge" railway. Remodeling In 1995, fleet replacement began and 128 second-hand Japanese Mitsubishi cars were purchased (they worked on the Tokyo city subway, more precisely on the Marunouchi Line) that were in an excellent state of preservation. The other units were completely radiated, with a few "Metropolitan Cammel" and "Osgood Bradley" donated to an organization of railway enthusiasts called Ferroclub Argentino, while two other units (an English one, number 112, and an F.M., number 193) were transferred into custody to the Friends of the Tram Association, an entity that is restoring them for their conservation in original state. The modernization and aesthetic change works carried out from 1996 by the then brand-new private concessionaire Metrovías brought about a radical change in the appearance of the stations, covering the walls of both platforms and vestibules with asphalt-type material painted black and ocher in most cases; except for Callao and Carlos Gardel, decorated with white tiles with black veins. In this way, the aforementioned colored friezes that embellished the seasons and gave them their characteristic touch were covered. The line always had an automatic light signaling system. In 1980 the mechanical train stop devices were replaced by other magnetic induction ones, and in 1998 they were finally replaced by an electronic system with Automatic Train Protection (ATP). The original tracks were replaced, and a new automatic signaling system with automatic train protection was installed and the transformers were replaced with ones that did not contain PCBs, a carcinogenic chemical. On August 9, 2003, two new stations were inaugurated, Tronador - Villa Ortúzar and De los Incas - Parque Chas, allowing the line to transport more than 300,000 passengers per business day. Tour Your tour begins at the intersection of Avenida Corrientes and Avenida Leandro N. Alem, at the Leandro N. Alem station, and continues below Avenida Corrientes until it crosses with Avenida Federico Lacroze, where the train station is located. same name Federico Lacroze. Next, the line takes a curve to go under Avenida Guzmán to Avenida Elcano, where it takes the route of Avenida Triunvirato to its terminus Juan M. de Rosas. Seasons | Station | Opening | Location and height | Barrio | Comb. | Station | |---|---|---|---|---|---| | Leandro N. Alem | 1 December 1931 | Avenida Corrientes 200 | St. Nicholas | Combination terminal | | | Florida | 15 December 1931 | Avenida Corrientes 500 | St. Nicholas | Step by step | | | Carlos Pellegrini | 22 June 1931 | Avenue Corrientes 900 | St. Nicholas | Combination | | | Uruguay | 22 June 1931 | Corrientes Avenue 1400 | St. Nicholas | Step by step | | | Shut up. | 17 October 1930 | Avenida Corrientes 1800 | San Nicolás and Balvanera | Step by step | | | Pasteur | 17 October 1930 | Avenida Corrientes 2300 | Balvanera | Step by step | | | Pueyrredon | 22 June 1931 | Corrientes Avenue 2700 | Balvanera | Combination | | | Carlos Gardel | 17 October 1930 | Corrientes Avenue 3300 | Balvanera | Step by step | | | Medrano | 17 October 1930 | Corrientes Avenue 3900 | Almagro | Step by step | | | Angel Gallardo | 17 October 1930 | Corrientes Avenue 4600 | Almagro | Step by step | | | Malabia | 17 October 1930 | Corrientes Avenue 5300 | Villa Crespo | Step by step | | | Dorrego | 17 October 1930 | Corrientes Avenue | Chacarita | Combination | | | Federico Lacroze | 17 October 1930 | Corrientes Avenue 6800 | Chacarita | Combination | | | Tronador | 9 August 2003 | Avenida Triunvirato 3000 | Villa Ortúzar | Step by step | | | Of the Incas | 9 August 2003 | Avenida de los Incas 4000 | Villa Ortúzar and Parque Chas | Step by step | | | Echeverría | 26 July 2013 | Avenida Triunvirato 4200 | Villa Urquiza | Step by step | | | Juan Manuel de Rosas | 26 July 2013 | Avenida Triunvirato 4600 | Villa Urquiza | Combination terminal | Rolling stock The tractive material of this line is made up of 21 arrays of 6 cars each, 11 Mitsubishi-Eidan Series 500 arrays from the Tokyo Metro and 10 CAF-Siemens Series 6000 originals from the Madrid Metro The Mitsubishi 500 Series were manufactured in Japan starting in 1959, being acquired in 1995 by the National State under the management of the Metrovías concessionaire, having circulated until then on the Marunouchi Line of the Tokyo Subway. Its acquisition meant the replacement of all the units in use until then: British Metropolitan Cammel from 1930, North American Osgood Bradley from 1931, and Argentine Siemens-Fabricaciones Militares from the 1970s. They circulated with their original colors (red with white stripes and guards). silver) until the mid-2010s, when they were gradually plotted at first with Metrovías colors (yellow and grey), and later, with institutional reasons of the Government of the City of Buenos Aires, in tune with the later incorporated cars CAF-Siemens 6000 Series. In 2016, three cars returned to Japan for restoration as a historic lineup of the Marunouchi Line. In 2013, 36 used “CAF - Siemens 5000 Series” cars were purchased from the Madrid Metro with the aim of reinforcing the fleet and thus allowing the inauguration of the Echeverría and Juan Manuel de Rosas stations without the need to extend frequencies. At the end of April of that year, the testing of the new formations began. In July 2014 a controversial situation arose when it was denounced that the Madrid Metro trains were not suitable for the line, which would mean a temporary closure of the line to adapt the tunnels. Subterráneos de Buenos Aires denied the information. In February 2018, the units were radiated from the service when it was verified that they had insulating plates made of asbestos, a carcinogenic material, and that the directors of Subterráneos de Buenos Aires acknowledged not having demanded that Metro de Madrid a report if these materials had been removed before the purchase. Due to this incident, an inspection commission was created to determine if the rolling stock of the Subway had components with asbestos, which cost the separation of the Hitachi- formations from service. Nippon Sharyo "Nagoya" of Lines C and D and CAF-General Electric España on Line E, and the destruction of Mitsubishi cars on Line B and Materfer-Siemens on Line E. In 2014, “CAF - Siemens 6000 Series” cars were purchased with an average age of 15 years, with air conditioning, internal communications system, interconnecting corridor and four doors per side that can be opened individually. By the end of March 2015, all the formations should be in operation, but the installation of the rigid catenary and other works necessary for its incorporation suffered delays and the electrical power of the line was insufficient. In June 2015 Juan Pablo Piccardo, president of Subterráneos de Buenos Aires, was criminally denounced for defrauding the public administration, bribery and breach of the duties of a public official for the purchase of these formations and successive adaptation works. Extension works The line was extended below Av. Triunvirato between Av. de los Incas and Av. Monroe, for 2 km. The works began on November 19, 2004, and were affected by the collapse of a section of the excavation, where three workers were injured. In 2013, two new stations, Echeverría and Juan Manuel de Rosas, were inaugurated, the latter being the subject of a controversy, due to its name (it was originally going to be called "Villa Urquiza"). The first is located at the intersection between Av. Triunvirato and Echeverría and the second at the intersection of Av. Triunvirato and Monroe, in combination with the Gral. Urquiza station of the General Miter Railroad. Both stations opened on July 26, 2013. Image Gallery Contenido relacionado Chaco Railway Services Subways of Buenos Aires Cyangugu


--- [Line B (Buenos Aires Underground) - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Line B (Buenos Aires Underground) - Alchetron] ---
Daily ridership 412,882 (2009) 13.7% | Stations 17 Opened 1930 | | Termini Leandro N. AlemJuan Manuel de Rosas | Line B of the Buenos Aires Underground runs 11.75 kilometres (7.30 mi) from Leandro N. Alem to Juan Manuel de Rosas in Villa Urquiza. Line B opened to the public on 17 October 1930. Contents In recent years, it has held the title of being the most used line, and increased even more so after the opening of a section of tunnel between Los Incas station in the neighborhood of Parque Chas and a shopping centre in Villa Urquiza. It was the first line in Buenos Aires whose stations had turnstiles and moving stairways. It is the only line that uses third rail current collection, while the rest collect electric current from overhead lines, though there has been ongoing conversion to overhead lines to incorporate new rolling stock. Its gauge of 4 ft 8 1⁄2 in (1,435 mm) is the same as the rest of the Buenos Aires underground system. The rolling stock currently used on the B line are former Tokyo Metro (formerly Eidan Subway) 300/500/900 stocks, which was used on Marunouchi Line and CAF 5000 stock. These Japanese units were acquired in the early 1990s, and offer less sitting room than the previous setup, increasing the line's capacity during peak hours. The Japanese trains are being phased out and replaced by newer CAF 5000 and CAF 6000 rolling stock acquired from the Madrid Metro. History In 1912 the Congress of Argentina enacted Law 8,870 to carry out the line that would unite the Correo Central (Central Post Office) and the intersection of Triumvirato and Elcano streets, splice site with the tracks of the Buenos Aires Central Railroad (Ferrocarril Central de Buenos Aires or FCCBA), which belonged to the same business group through an 8.7 km tunnel. The Act provided that the works "would clear in part the traffic in the central area of the city". Latterly on 17 December 1927 in New York City the financial agreement to build was signed between Teófilo Lacroze, the president of Banco de la Nación Dr. Tomás de Estrada, Dr. Louis J. Rocca directory owner of Ferrocarril Terminal de Buenos Aires and bankers Harris and Forbes. This will grant the concession of the line for passengers, parcels and freight to Lacroze Brothers Company. The construction was done by the Argentine builder Dwight P. Robinson & Cía, and the line was called Ferrocarril Terminal Central de Buenos Aires (Buenos Aires Central Terminal Railroad). The first section between Federico Lacroze and Callao opened on 17 October 1930 and measured 7.021 km. The maiden voyage was made by President de facto José Félix Uriburu. On 22 June 1931, it was extended to Carlos Pellegrini station. Finally, the line was completed on 1 December 1931 when the subway reached the station Leandro N. Alem. These three sections were carried out entirely below Corrientes Avenue, including 19 curves and 13 stations. According to the depth of the line, some sections were made by open ditch (cut-and-cover method) or gallery or tunnel. As so were performed mainly at open skies the stations Federico Lacroze, Dorrego, Canning, (now Malabia), Río de Janeiro, (now Ángel Gallardo) and Medrano . When you reach the tunnel at Maipu Street the maximum depth reached 17 metres. Underneath the Rancagua (today Los Andes) park, in Chacarita, a workshop and a 10 track garage (with capacity for 110 wagons) were built. This line had escalators and turnstiles for the payment of coin-operated service, initially manufactured in United States, formerly controlled by guards. It also was deeper than the Line A, and like it, each station was decorated with friezes of characteristic colors. An underground link with the subsoil of the Mercado Central de Abasto (central wholesale fruit and vegetable market) was made available on 12 July 1933, by which goods wagons with freight from the Ferrocarril Central de Buenos Aires (Buenos Aires Central Railroad) would arrive, driven by electric locomotives. This was lifted after the fire occurred on 27 November 1952. From the beginning the circulation was protected by an automatic luminous signalization, with devices for mechanic trains, which were substituted in 1980 for others of magnetic induction, also replaced in 1998 for an electric system with ATP. Recent expansion and refurbishment Line B was recently extended underground further west (2 km) from Los Incas/Parque Chas to Echeverría and Juan Manuel de Rosas (previously named Villa Urquiza) where transfer to the Ferrocarril Mitre is provided. The new stations opened in July 26, 2013. Further plans include: installation of a new signal system, acquisition of new cars, construction of a new central workshop for the repair of machinery, widening of platforms, hallways and all areas of pedestrian traffic at stations and at transfer nodes, improvements in transfer centers with other means of transport Some refurbishment on the line has come under criticism, mostly due to the overwhelming colour of the new murals, but also due to alleged cases where the historic artwork of the line has been destroyed during the line's modernisation. Rolling stock Line B inaugurated with 56 English Metropolitan Cammell cars (numbered from 101 to 156), of two bogies and metallic bodywork painted with cream and red colours on the exterior, with decorative artwork and dark blue coloured doors. Each car had two 105 HP motors. The interiors had 47 wooden seats, the majority with reversible back and three slide doors on each side, at the platforms level, of opening and closure commanded by the guard. One year later, 20 similar cars made by Osgood Bradley Car Company of the US were incorporated. The Japanese-built Eidan 300/400/500/900 sets, which ran on line B starting in 1996, were in service on the Marunouchi Line in Tokyo from 1959 through late 1995. In 2009, it was announced that the Madrid Metro has sold its oldest wide-profile trains to Buenos Aires. The 5000 series trains, which were in operation in Madrid since 1974, entered service in 2011 to replace some of the Eidan 300/400/500/900 sets that were utilized on line B starting in 1996. In July 2013, Madrid Metro sold 73 of its 6000 series cars (which entered service in Madrid in 1998) to Buenos Aires for €32.6 million in exchange for the retirement of the rest of the Japanese-built trains. The purchase of the CAF 6000 rolling stock has been met with criticism due to major alterations that were made to the line to accommodate the cars' height, as well as the fact that the second-hand units were not significantly cheaper than simply purchasing new rolling stock, as was done with Line A.


--- [Between - Best App for Couples] ---
Relationship App for Couples Between is a mobile app for couples in love! Chat, share photos and schedules in a private space just for two. Start now and collect all the moments in your relationship. Between is a mobile app for couples in love! Chat, track anniversaries, share photos and video, and plan your schedules together all in one private space. Start using Between now and make your relationship even better! Express yourselves better with cute stickers and emoticons. Have fun with GIF Selfies. Between is the place to have your intimate conversations. Every photo, video, and notes - just between the two of you. Your memories all remain, even if you change phones. Save and share all your precious memories in Between. Never miss a word from the voice you miss most. Between provides free and clear Voice Calls. Keep on talking without the worry of phone call charges. Do you remember the day you first met, your first anniversary, or a special trip together? These special moments, no matter how small, are all important in your relationship. Save and track all your special days and moments on Between, and never forget them. Easily share your individual schedules and make plans. No set up or syncing needed to keep each other updated. Between's Shared Calendar makes planning as a couple smooth as silk. "Korean Couples App Between Raises $3 Million To Expand Into Japan And Other Markets: "Between is huge in Asia — and growing."" "It offers an ultra-private, richer, and meaningful experiential context that nurtures intimacy with your significant other.." "You can have only one contact on Between—your significant other. If Facebook is a high-school reunion and Twitter is a cocktail party, Between is staying home with a boxed set and ordering pizza." Between is a mobile app for couples in love! Chat, share photos and schedules in a private space just for two. Start now and collect all the moments in your relationship. Express yourselves better with cute stickers and emoticons. Have fun with GIF Selfies. Between is the place to have your intimate conversations. Every photo, video, and notes - just between the two of you. Your memories all remain, even if you change phones. Save and share all your precious memories in Between. Never miss a word from the voice you miss most. Between provides free and clear Voice Calls. Keep on talking without the worry of phone call charges. Do you remember the day you first met, your first anniversary, or a special trip together? These special moments, no matter how small, are all important in your relationship. Save and track all your special days and moments on Between, and never forget them. Easily share your individual schedules and make plans. No set up or syncing needed to keep each other updated. Between's Shared Calendar makes planning as a couple smooth as silk. "Korean Couples App Between Raises $3 Million To Expand Into Japan And Other Markets: "Between is huge in Asia — and growing."" "It offers an ultra-private, richer, and meaningful experiential context that nurtures intimacy with your significant other.." "You can have only one contact on Between—your significant other. If Facebook is a high-school reunion and Twitter is a cocktail party, Between is staying home with a boxed set and ordering pizza."
