=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Karnofsky, Louis Armstrong NOLA connection lives on — in Lithuania]
Jun 20, 2021 · Unveiling the Louis Armstrong plaque in Vilkija. Photos courtesy Kaunas Region Municipality The story of the Karnofsky family in New Orleans and their early support of legendary jazz singer Louis Armstrong is now being celebrated in Lithuania. On May 22, the municipality of Vilkija dedicated an outdoor stage overlooking the Nemunas Valley in honor of Armstrong and the Karnofskys, as the ...
URL: https://sjlmag.com/2021/06/20/karnofsky-louis-armstrong-nola-connection-lives-on-in-lithuania/

[Satchmo and the Jewish Family - 64 Parishes]
Dec 16, 2014 · He learned that from the Karnofskys. Louis really did start at the bottom. His job for the Jewish family was collecting refuse (bottles and rags mostly) and delivering coal to the prostitutes in Storyville. He usually accompanied Morris or Alex, two of the Karnofsky sons, on the junk wagon and played a tinhorn to attract customers.
URL: https://64parishes.org/satchmo-jewish-family

[Louis Armstrong and his ties to Jewish community - Verite ...]
Aug 1, 2025 · What did a Jewish family and jazz great Louis Armstrong have in common? The Karnofsky Tailor Shop. Located at 427 S. Rampart St. in the early 1900s, the tailor shop belonged to Louis and Tillie Karnofsky, who lived on the building’s second floor. Armstrong was 7 when the Karnofskys hired him to work with their sons, Morris and Alex, on their junk and coal wagons.
URL: https://veritenews.org/2025/08/01/bitd-louis-armstrong-jewish-community/

[Louis Armstrong with Tillie and Morris Karnofsky in New Orleans]
This little boy was called Louis "Satchmo" Armstrong. Louis Armstrong proudly spoke fluent Yiddish and the origins of his nickname "Satchmo" are truly shrouded in mystery no one really knows yet what the full story is there. The New Orleans House where Louis Armstrong lived with Tillie and Morris Karnofsky before it was demolished.
URL: http://azuremilesrecords.com/louisarmstrongandtillieandmorriskanofskyinneworleans.html

[Satchmo's Second Family - Jazztalks]
When Louis was just seven years old, the Karnofskys brought him in—along with other young blacks—to help with their budding coal and junk businesses. At the time, Jews nurtured a kinship with blacks, the "comradeship of excluded peoples."
URL: http://www.jazztalks.com/satchmos-second-family.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Karnofsky, Louis Armstrong NOLA connection lives on — in Lithuania] ---
Unveiling the Louis Armstrong plaque in Vilkija. Photos courtesy Kaunas Region Municipality The story of the Karnofsky family in New Orleans and their early support of legendary jazz singer Louis Armstrong is now being celebrated in Lithuania. On May 22, the municipality of Vilkija dedicated an outdoor stage overlooking the Nemunas Valley in honor of Armstrong and the Karnofskys, as the Karnofsky family had lived there in the 19th century before immigrating to the United States and arriving in New Orleans in 1900. When he was six, Louis and Tillie Karnofsky hired Armstrong, who lived with his mother in a rough, impoverished neighborhood, to work with their sons, Morris and Alex, on their junk and coal wagons. They blew tin horns to attract customers, and Armstrong soon wondered how he would sound with a real horn. He saw a cornet in a pawn shop window for $5, and was determined to get it. Armstrong insisted that it not be a gift but that he would work for it, so the Karnofskys loaned him against future pay, and he got the cornet. Morris, who eventually opened the first jazz record store in New Orleans, knew Armstrong had talent and encouraged him to play. Dining with the family, Armstrong developed a taste for Jewish food, and learned a Russian lullaby from Tillie. He worked for the Karnofskys for a few years, and then was off to the world of music. But he always had a special relationship with the Karnofskys and an affinity for the Jewish people. In one instance, before a Moscow concert he was asked by Soviet officials to remove songs with Jewish-styled melodies, because as they said, there were few Jews in the Soviet Union. Arm-strong is said to have replied, “And a lot of blacks?” Armstrong wore a Star of David necklace, spoke Yiddish and had a mezuzah. He said that as a boy, he was astounded at the amount of prejudice “other whites” had toward Jews. Eugenius Bunka, a journalist in Lithuania, has written about the connection between the Karnofsky family and Vilkija. During his research he contacted Jacob Karno and traveled to New Orleans to interview him about his family. He also visited with Ricky Riccardi, research director at the Armstrong House Museum in New York. Bunka, who told the story at the annual Mama Jazz festival in Vilnius, suggested the dedication for the town’s long-planned venue. There is even a rumor, which has not been confirmed, that the stage is on the site where the Karnofsky house had been. Local official Kazys Bacenas said “the stage is mainly dedicated to music events, so can there be a better idea than to call it the name of the music performer and his patrons from Vilkija? Nice coincidence.” The stage will be covered by a canopy during the summer, with it being removed in winter. Throughout the park, there are pillars where one can press a button and listen to one of 13 tracks by Armstrong. An “Early Years” plaque describes the Karnofskys as “simple people” when they lived in Vilkija, who were involved in trading and waste collection. After describing how the Karnofskys took Armstrong under their wing, the plaque describes the “warm relationship” between them, and how he incorporated Jewish motifs in his jazz. The plaque also mentions how the Karnofsky Project still helps “children from indigent families purchase musical instruments.” At the dedication, the Kaunas Big Band played jazz and Kaunas District Mayor Valeriius Makunas spoke about the town’s history. A bas relief of Armstrong was unveiled during the ceremony. The Jewish History of Vilkija The Jewish presence in Vilkija dates back to the 18th century, and became a large presence. In 1915, according to the book “Lithuanian Jewish Communities,” Jews were expelled from the town, but soon returned, and by 1921 about 800 Jews lived there, 80 percent of the population. A large fire in 1937 contributed to the community’s decline, as did a disruption in the timber industry from Vilna, and by the late 1930s, the Jewish community numbered about 400. In the Holocaust, Jews throughout Lithuania were slaughtered during the second half of 1941, often by Partisan groups before the Germans had even arrived. The first targets were Jews who were suspected to have ties to the Soviet Union, which had just left after occupying Lithuania. After the German invasion, it took only a few weeks for the Jews to be rounded up and placed into ghettos, then taken to the forests to dig pits for their own mass graves, where they were either shot or buried alive. A recent book, “The Lithuanian Slaughter of Its Jews,” compiled by David Sandler, includes a chapter on Vilkija, from the testimonies of Moyshe Karnovsky, recorded in a displaced persons camp between 1946 and 1948. There had been two synagogues, including a 19th-century Neo-Renaissance style building on the bank of the river, and was the iconic image on postcards from that time. It operated until World War II, and afterwards was a storage house before being abandoned and collapsing. Some fortifications remain as the only remnants of the town’s Jewish history. Today, the town has about 2,300 residents.


--- [Satchmo and the Jewish Family - 64 Parishes] ---
Magazine Satchmo and the Jewish Family Louis Armstrong never forgot the employers who nurtured him as a boy Published: December 16, 2014 Last Updated: May 23, 2019 How Louis encountered “the Jewish Family” (as he referred to them in writing) should come as no surprise to anyone familiar with the “crazy quilt” character of some New Orleans neighborhoods, in which people of diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds commingle on a daily basis, often living next door to each other. Such was the case when Louis moved from Jane Alley, “back o’ town,” to Franklin and Perdido Streets, in the Third Ward. South Rampart Street was only a couple of blocks away, teeming with pawnshops, tailoring establishments, restaurants, bars, and saloons. The resident proprietors of the pawnshops, and many of the tailors, were Jewish — the Finks, Fertels, and Karnofskys being the most prominent among them — but the neighborhood also included a Chinatown. Running amok on the streets as he was wont to do, little Louis took it all in, and his relationship with the Karnofskys (which began with his first job) was pretty much a foregone conclusion from the time he moved into the neighborhood. Among other things, they shared a similar lifestyle, right down to the basics: for example, everybody in the neighborhood had to use privies (yes, outhouses); everyone was poor in material goods but rich in spirit, and their fortune was in the streets; and if you were eating out for a special occasion, you went to a Chinese restaurant, where they had soul food (“lead beans and lice” said Louis) along with the usual Cantonese fare. What Armstrong admired about his Jewish benefactors was that they were industrious and stood together in the face of oppression — which was something they encountered at every turn, like their black neighbors. They were “all in this together,” but some folks were more together than others. As Louis said later, “I came up the hard way, the same as lots of people, but I always help the other fellow if there’s anyways possible.” After he made it, he kept a bankroll that could choke a gator, precisely to make good on that promise. He learned that from the Karnofskys. Louis really did start at the bottom. His job for the Jewish family was collecting refuse (bottles and rags mostly) and delivering coal to the prostitutes in Storyville. He usually accompanied Morris or Alex, two of the Karnofsky sons, on the junk wagon and played a tinhorn to attract customers. One day they passed a pawnshop and Louis saw a burnished B-flat cornet on sale for five dollars in the window. Five bucks might as well have been a million, but Morris advanced him two dollars and he saved the rest at 50 cents a week until he could raise the money to buy the horn. (That’s something else they taught him, how to save, which as most of us know, is a hard lesson, often learned more than once in a lifetime.) Morris never let Louis forget that he had talent and applauded him as he attempted to make his first horn sing. “They could see I had something in my soul,” Louis said. And the Karnofskys also made sure that he had something in his stomach. Louis loved the food he ate at their home. As he put it: “My first Jewish meal was at the age of seven. I liked their Jewish food very much. Every time we would come in late on the little wagon from buying old rags and bones, when they would be having supper they would fix a plate of food for me, saying ‘you’ve worked, might as well eat here with us. It is too late, and by the time you get home, it will be way too late for your supper.’ I was glad because I fell in love with their food from those days until now. I still eat their food — matzos. My wife Lucille keeps them in her breadbox so I can nibble on them any time that I want to eat late at night. So tasty — DEElicious.” Louis worked for the Karnofskys until he was about twelve, by which time he was “a little large for the job.” We all know what happened to him after that — he became the first super star of jazz — but what about his mentors? As Louis tells it “they came into larger businesses. They had invested their saved earnings, and before one realized it, they had New Orleans all sewed up.” Well, in point of fact, the youngest son, David, grew up to be a master tailor, and he kept in touch with his family’s most famous protégé, often attending Louis’s performances in New York. And there’s more. Later generations of Karnofskys abbreviated the surname to Karno (which it may have originally been in their native Russia), and some of them became powerful nightclub owners in the French Quarter. Nick Karno had La Strada, The 500 Club, The Famous Door, Court of Two Sisters, and other prime real estate devoted to music. So maybe this relationship was more reciprocal than it’s usually made out to be, because it seems to me that Louis gave the Karnofskys something, too — an appreciation for the creative power of jazz. That’s a gift that keeps on giving. ———- Bruce Boyd Raeburn, Ph.D., is director of the Hogan Jazz Archive at Tulane University.


--- [Louis Armstrong and his ties to Jewish community - Verite ...] ---
What did a Jewish family and jazz great Louis Armstrong have in common? The Karnofsky Tailor Shop. Located at 427 S. Rampart St. in the early 1900s, the tailor shop belonged to Louis and Tillie Karnofsky, who lived on the building’s second floor. Armstrong was 7 when the Karnofskys hired him to work with their sons, Morris and Alex, on their junk and coal wagons. “They blew tin horns to attract customers, and Armstrong soon wondered how he would sound with a real horn,” a 2021 Southern Jewish Life article states. Armstrong “saw a cornet in a pawn shop window for $5, and was determined to get it. Armstrong insisted that it not be a gift but that he would work for it, so the Karnofskys loaned him against future pay, and he got the cornet.” Not only did the Karnofskys provide Armstrong with work, food and an instrument, but they also encouraged his musical talent. Morris Karnofsky even opened the first jazz record store in New Orleans. “I shall always love the Karnofskys,” said Armstrong, who enjoyed Jewish food and often wore the Star of David as a symbol of gratitude for the Karnofskys’ kindness. “I learned a lot from them about how to live — real life and determination…I began to feel like I had a future and ‘It’s a Wonderful World’ after all.” Listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the Karnofsky building crumbled during a Category 4 hurricane. “After decades of neglect, the Karnofsky building was in a weakened condition when Hurricane Ida came ashore in 2021,” WWOZ’s A Closer Walk states. “Despite additional braces added by a new owner in 2019, the structure was destroyed in the storm. The image of its ruins was widely disseminated and quickly became a symbol of the hurricane’s wrath.” For more tales from New Orleans history, visit the Back in the Day archives.


--- [Louis Armstrong with Tillie and Morris Karnofsky in New Orleans] ---
Louis Armstrong with Tillie and Morris Karnofsky in New Orleans Louis Armstrong "It was the Jewish people who instilled in me singing from the heart. (Louis Armstrong) "i love the Jewish people because they taught me three things. how to eat. how to sing. and how to play. (Louis Armstrong) Quoted below from Black History and Politics: This working link stopped working on an unknown day after the article was published. (MER) "A Jewish family Karnofsky, who immigrated from Lithuania to the United States, took pity on the 7-year-old boy and brought him to their home. There he stayed and spent the night in this Jewish family home, where for the first time in his life he was treated with kindness and tenderness. When he went to bed, Mrs Karnofski sang him Russian lullabies, which he sang with her. Later he learned to sing and play several Russian and Jewish songs. Mrs. Tillie "Ester" Karnofsky Over time, this boy became the adopted son of this family. Mr. Karnofsky gave him money to buy his first musical instrument, as was the custom in Jewish families. Morris Karnofsky Later, when he became a professional musician and composer, he used these Jewish melodies in compositions such as St. James's Hospital and Go Down Moses. The little boy grew up and wrote a book about this Jewish family, who adopted him in 1907. And proudly spoke Yiddish fluently. In memory of this family and until the end of his life, he wore the Star of David and said that in this family he learned "to live a real life and determination." This little boy’s name was Louis Armstrong. This little boy was called Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong. Louis Armstrong proudly spoke fluent Yiddish and the origins of his nickname "Satchmo" are truly shrouded in mystery no one really knows yet what the full story is there. The New Orleans House where Louis Armstrong lived with Tillie and Morris Karnofsky before it was demolished. How awful this was done before anyone could save a literal birthplace of jazz! A much more detailed account on this subject may be read here: Louis Armstrong and the Jewish Family From Melody of Words: "There are incredibly insulated people in academia and publications like the New Yorker and the New York Times, who don't understand how jazz was born from a historic confluence of African Americans, the primary great improvisers, with many notable exceptions, forced here for slavery, and Jewish Americans escaping Pogroms and the Holocaust, the primary composers and lyricists for the ragas of jazz, also with many notable exceptions, referring to the jazz standards used for improvisation together with blues forms, the lyrics being equally crucial as the music, they being inextricably intertwined, all the great instrumental improvisers of swing and modern jazz being intimate with the lyrics for rasa inspiration. Italian Americans were also crucial in the history of jazz, including the greatest jazz vocalist, Frank Sinatra - Miles Davis, Lester Young, Art Blakey, Count Basie, Lee Konitz, Duke Ellington and Stan Getz being among numerous jazz greats who shared this opinion - and myriad others of various European and Latino ancestries were also indispensable, of course. My first jazz idol was Charlie Parker, who taught how one lives is how their music sounds. We seek the truth in music as a form of self-realization, that is what writing about music is for me, and I'm glad to share it with others. My jazz teacher, Lee Konitz, who later became a close friend, was a friend and colleague of both Charlie Parker and Miles Davis. Lee exemplified what Parker believed, and this is how I was taught, to be truthful in music, something naturally extended to writing about music. While primarily a composer, writing about music is a personal learning experience as noted, influencing both my composing and piano improvising. Very unexpectedly, during our last phone talk before he left us, Lee in his Manhattan apartment, and myself driving over Benedict Canyon near Mulholland towards the Valley, he suddenly urged me to being playing jazz in addition to my composing. Rather magically this came to be, with piano improvisation the same medium used by Lee's jazz teacher, Lennie Tristano, Pisces like myself, Lee being a Libra, myself knowing very little about astrology! Jazz is too precious to lie about. African American innovators are so magnificent there is no need to pretend there weren't equally as great Jewish Americans, Italian Americans, and may other crucial ethnicities involved with its splendid entirety. It actually is insulting to African American jazz greats of the past to patronize them with the strongly idiotic notion they are so weak as to be threatened by the inclusion of their equally great friends and colleagues with different backgrounds, something artificially and erroneously developed in academia and graduates of such who became jazz writers. My favorite Richard Davis album is with Phil Woods, and my favorite Mile Davis album is with Bill Evans, and my favorite Duke Ellington album is with Frank Sinatra, and my favorite Lester Young album is with Buddy Rich. I could go on forever like this. The actual musicians never believed in this marginalizing and disappearing stuff, it was only when jazz entered academia and spawned confused writers that the lies began. They're ugly lies and more so, a lot of times now students and readers don't even know they're lies because... wisdom is thrown into jail It rots in a cell misguided as hell Leaving no one to pick up the trail Thank you Bob with an assist from Political World on the Oh Mercy album, one of the greatest ever. I'm only able to untangle the mess because I was tight with one of the main architects of modern jazz, and I know for sure Lee Konitz, Charlie Parker and Miles Davis would all love me for telling the true story of jazz, not to mention Satchmo himself, who is without doubt the greatest jazz singer after Frank Sinatra in addition to his trumpet artistry that launched jazz. I took a music study class in college and it was all about the history of jazz (my professor was a big jazz guy) and though I learned it was rooted in black culture I had no idea the Jewish influence involved. ALSO, did you see the mothers name who adopted him was named Esther like my grandmother on my fathers side. Love love love the four lines about wisdoms being thrown in a jail cell and rotting. SO TRUE. And jazz did throw people for a loop because it wasn’t tradition sounds and vibrations together! People always reject and lie about new stuff, I think it’s all based in the fear or change. Such a good read. Thank you (Sent this morning out of the blue from Isabelle O'Leary with a B.A in Psychology from a leading California university who is currently working on her masters degree. O'Leary has Irish Catholic, French, Italian, Polish and Gypsy ancestries.) - Michael Robinson, May 2024, Los Angeles © 2024 Michael Robinson All rights reserved Michael Robinson is a Los Angeles-based composer, programmer, pianist and musicologist. His 199 albums include 152 albums for meruvina and 47 albums of piano improvisations. Robinson has been a lecturer at UCLA, Bard College and California State University Long Beach and Dominguez Hills. |


--- [Satchmo's Second Family - Jazztalks] ---
| Talk Topics... | | ♬ LISTEN: King Oliver's Creole Jazz Band--October 26, 1923 Louis Armstrong, second cornet Workingman Blues This is the breakout band that brought Armstrong out of the New Orleans swamp to Chicago. Most Crescent City musicians then held down day jobs--as factory workers, plasterers, cigar makers, coal cart drivers, and in other "street trades." Louis was no exception.This performance dramatizes the labor of their days, together with the joy and triumph they felt as the sun went down. |
