=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 Release Date]
Mar 28, 2018 · The Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 will be worn by Kylian Mbappé on pitch March 31st and will release the same day on Nike.com in limited quantities. Below you can check out more images which will give you a closer look.
URL: https://www.sneakerfiles.com/off-white-nike-mercurial-vapor-360-release-date/

[Nike x Virgil Abloh Off-White Mercurial Vapor 360 Boots Released]
Mar 28, 2018 · The Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 x Virgil Abloh soccer cleat is the first-ever football boot designed by Virgil Abloh, part of the new Nike Football x Off-White collaboration.. Nike and Abloh have teamed up with French superstar Kylian Mbappé who's going to wear the boot in a Superfly version.
URL: https://www.footyheadlines.com/2018/03/nike-off-white-mercurial-vapor-360-boots.html

[Virgil Abloh x Nike Mercurial Release Details | Hypebeast]
Mar 28, 2018 · The Virgil Abloh x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 will be worn by French wonderkid Kylian Mbappé for the first time on March 31, with limited pairs dropping via the Nike web store on the same day.
URL: https://hypebeast.com/2018/3/virgil-abloh-nike-mercurial-vapor-360-release-information

[Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 - nss sports]
It now marks one hundred days til the kick off of the 2018 World Cup and we're at that exact moment when the hype starts to become real, also thanks to collabos like the one we're about to talk. If you're attentive to all the freshest movements in the football-fashion feed, you surely have seen this pictures, the first available of the awaited Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor XII 360.
URL: https://www.nss-sports.com/en/lifestyle/14092/off-white-nike-mercurial-vapor

[Kylian Mbappé Launches The Nike x Virgil Abloh Mercurial 360]
Mar 28, 2018 · Nike Football reveal their second Mercurial 360 collaboration of the year as Virgil Abloh of Off-White leaves his stamp in limited edition style. Set to be worn by Kylian Mbappé on March 31 when PSG host Monaco, the disruptive design will launch on the same day.
URL: https://www.soccerbible.com/performance/football-boots/2018/03/kylian-mbapp%C3%A9-launches-the-nike-x-virgil-abloh-mercurial-360/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 Release Date] ---
Virgil Abloh has once again connected with Nike to expand their partnership with their latest offering being the Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 cleat. “For this Mercurial, I was interested in bridging the gap between foot and eye coordination,” says Abloh. “All the dots on the boot represent an optimal place to strike the ball.” The idea is two fold: First, to help the wearer recognize where he or she should hit the ball; and second, to present a powerful message to the opposition. “In my approach, I thought about what it would be like if I saw someone wearing the boot,” says Abloh, who assumed a stopper role during his high school playing days. “Design is a powerful tool, as it communicates energy and a message, and it offers a unique capacity to make someone do a double take on-pitch — I feel like it would be intimidating to see this boot.” The boots arrive in a custom box and feature Abloh’s trademark Off-White branding on the medial side. Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 Release Date The Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 will be worn by Kylian Mbappé on pitch March 31st and will release the same day on Nike.com in limited quantities. Below you can check out more images which will give you a closer look. Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 March 31, 2018


--- [Nike x Virgil Abloh Off-White Mercurial Vapor 360 Boots Released] ---
Nike x Virgil Abloh Off-White Mercurial Vapor 360 Boots Released Nike and Virgil Abloh today launched a new limited edition Mercurial football boot. The Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 x Virgil Abloh soccer cleat is the first-ever football boot designed by Virgil Abloh, part of the new Nike Football x Off-White collaboration.. Nike and Abloh have teamed up with French superstar Kylian Mbappé who's going to wear the boot in a Superfly version. Nike is only going to sell the Mercurial Vapor 360 x Virgil Abloh in a Vapor version, so the Superfly of Mbappé is the only one out there! Nike x Off-White Mercurial Vapor 12 Elite - Total Orange / White This picture shows the Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 Off-White soccer cleats. Inspired by the debut colorway as well as Nike and Virgil Abloh's 'The Ten' sneaker collection, the Off-White Mercurial Vapor XII Elite football boots are orange with white brandings and Abloh's signature text quotes - including "LOGO, "KNIT" and "FAST AF." “For this Mercurial, I was interested in bridging the gap between foot and eye coordination,” says Abloh. “All the dots on the boot represent an optimal place to strike the ball.” “In my approach, I thought about what it would be like if I saw someone wearing the boot,” says Abloh, who assumed a stopper role during his high school playing days. “Design is a powerful tool, as it communicates energy and a message, and it offers a unique capacity to make someone do a double take on-pitch — I feel like it would be intimidating to see this boot.” Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 - Features - One-piece Flyknit upper - 360° Fit wraps around the foot - Microtexturized Flyknit upper with NikeSkin overlay - ACC (All Conditions Control) - Podular sole plate system with an internal chassis - Swoosh design on the toe has a matte finish to help provide traction on the ball Tech-wise, the cleat is identical to the regular colorways of the Nike Mercurial Vapor 12 Elite soccer boot model. The Off-White Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 is released in limited quantities for around 350 Euro. Do you like the Nike x Off-White Mercurial Vapor cleats? Comment below, and check out the Boot Calendar for more.


--- [Virgil Abloh x Nike Mercurial Release Details | Hypebeast] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 - nss sports] ---
Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 We can finally have a look at the awaited football boot collabo between the Swoosh and Virgil Abloh UPDATE: After the leak we saw a few weeks ago, Nike Football officially unveiled the Off-White Mercurial Vapor 360, the awaited collaboration with Virgil Abloh. The main testimonial chosen for the boot has been PSG striker Kylian Mbappé, that will wear the boot on March 31, the same day it will be available on nike.com. It now marks one hundred days til the kick off of the 2018 World Cup and we’re at that exact moment when the hype starts to become real, also thanks to collabos like the one we’re about to talk. If you’re attentive to all the freshest movements in the football-fashion feed, you surely have seen this pictures, the first available of the awaited Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor XII 360. As you can immediately see, the design of the boot is similar than the one seen on the Off-White x Mercurial VaporMax worn by Virgil Abloh at the London event last month. The silo, of course, is the same presented by the Swoosh and the color, orange, is also the same of the Nike boot, even if slightly lighter. But to make the Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor XII 360 unique are the iconic designs of Abloh’s brand. Starting from the external side, there are the colored stamps - white and light blue - the “LOGO” writing above Nike’s swoosh and the “KNIT” one, representing the construction of the boot. The name of the collection, “FAST AF”, is placed on the soleplate, while the tongue has the “Engineered for Speed” and “LIMITED EDITION” writings. There are no official details about the Off-White x Nike Mercurial Vapor XII 360 yet, but you can expect to discover the release date, availability, and price in the upcoming weeks. The kickoff of the World Cup is just behind the corner and Nike Football seems just ready to the event.


--- [Kylian Mbappé Launches The Nike x Virgil Abloh Mercurial 360] ---
Nike Football reveal their second Mercurial 360 collaboration of the year as Virgil Abloh of Off-White leaves his stamp in limited edition style. Set to be worn by Kylian Mbappé on March 31 when PSG host Monaco, the disruptive design will launch on the same day. Virgil Abloh's style is one of the most instantly recognisable in high-end lifestyle circles and his distinctive design is transferred onto the "Total Orange" upper of Nike's latest Mercurial generation. A creative display on the contemporary game, the design references foot and eye coordination with dots representing optimal strike zones. Following on from the Kim Jones x Mercurial Vapor 360, the Virgil Abloh collaboration further blends the worlds of lifestyle and performance as Nike place their leading silo on a pedestal of hype. Dropping in restricted numbers the boots arrive in a custom box and feature Abloh's trademark Off-White branding on the medial side. Other literal branding such as "box", "shoelaces", "knit" and "bootbag" take their respective places. The Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 x Virgil Abloh will be launched in a lo-cut Vapor silhouette, however Kylian Mbappé has received a customised version of the Superfly 360 to wear on pitch on March 31 when PSG host Monaco at the Parc des Princes. Details have already merged about a wider collaboration between Nike and Off-White for the 2018 World Cup, and the duo showcased some of their creative football culture in London when the Mercurial was launched in February. The forthcoming Nike x Off-White capsule collection will include a collaborative jersey, worn by Mbappé to launch the boot here. The Nike Mercurial Vapor 360 x Virgil Abloh collab will drop on the Nike Store when Mbappé laces them up for the first time on Saturday, but a further quantity will be held back for a selected number of retailers. Photography by Alex Penfornis.
