=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[How to Pronounce "U" and "Ü" in Spanish | SpanishDictionary.com]
The Sound of the Letter U How to Pronounce U in Spanish The letter u represents the Spanish vowel sound, or phoneme, /u/. Vowel sounds are made with your mouth open and not blocked by your tongue in any way. To properly pronounce the vowel u in Spanish, your lips should be rounded, pushing forward, and barely open.
URL: https://www.spanishdict.com/guide/how-to-pronounce-u-and-in-spanish

[“U” with an Accent | SpanishDictionary.com]
Learn how to write the letter "u" with an accent and when to use the letter "u" with an accent in Spanish in this article!
URL: https://www.spanishdict.com/guide/u-with-an-accent

[‎CBC Gem: Shows & Live TV App - App Store]
CBC Gem is home to hit shows like Schitts Creek Murdoch Mysteries Wild Cards and global hits like The Great British Baking Show and Ghosts. Stream CBC TV Live access all 14 channels from across the country. Explore exclusive TV series from around the world Disco...
URL: https://apps.apple.com/ca/app/cbc-gem-shows-live-tv/id422191503

[CBC Gem]
CBC Gem includes exclusive content from CBC News, CBC Sports, CBC Documentaries and CBC Kids. This content is only available to our signed in members. The Great Canadian Baking Show is the latest episode of the popular Canadian baking show. Dragons Den Reality S...
URL: https://gem.cbc.ca/

[Live TV | Ottawa | CBC Gem]
Live TV Ottawa CBC Gem. Live TV. Calgary NewsCalgary Friday REGIONAL NEWSCalgary News. Regina Coronation Street Episode 11720PG Regina Regina St Johns Toronto Vancouver. WindsorMarketplaceS53 In Critical Condition. Offered with Closed Captions and Described Vide...
URL: https://gem.cbc.ca/live


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [How to Pronounce "U" and "Ü" in Spanish | SpanishDictionary.com] ---
Explanation The letter uin Spanish is pronounced like the letter group oo in moon or the letter u in June, but much shorter than in English and with rounded lips pushing forward. Compare the sound of oo and u in moon and June with the sound of u in their Spanish translations, lunaand junio. The letter u sometimes appears with two dots on top. That sign is called umlaut in English, or diéresisin Spanish. It means that the letter is actually pronounced as the vowel /u/ in spite of being part of the letter groups gue or gui, for example in the words cigüeña(stork) and lingüista(linguist). Written Vowels vs. Vowel Sounds In Spanish, each written vowel corresponds to a single vowel sound called a phoneme (fonema). There are five vowels in Spanish: a, e, i, o, and u. Although y is considered a consonant, it has the same sound as i in certain words and positions, such as hoy(today). Remember that the h is almost always silent in Spanish, so it does not make any sound in the word hoy above. The Sound of the Letter U How to Pronounce U in Spanish The letter u represents the Spanish vowel sound, or phoneme, /u/. Vowel sounds are made with your mouth open and not blocked by your tongue in any way. To properly pronounce the vowel u in Spanish, your lips should be rounded, pushing forward, and barely open. The back of your tongue should be close to your soft palate. Check it out in these words: uña(nail), Ucrania(Ukraine), vuelo(flight), cuna(cradle), and espíritu(spirit). Is the Spanish U Similar to the English U? Sometimes it is. It’s similar to the English u that can be heard in words like tube or flute, whose translations have the Spanish u sound too: tuboand flauta. However, remember that the Spanish u is much shorter in duration. Let’s look at some examples of words containing the letter u, whether the letter is stressed or unstressed, in different word positions and letter combinations. The Sound of the Letter Ü You might have noticed that the letter u sometimes appears with two dots on top. That sign is called umlaut in English, or diéresisin Spanish. It means that the letter is actually pronounced as the vowel /u/ in spite of being part of the letter groups gue or gui, for example in the words lingüística(linguistics) and pingüino(penguin). Let’s look at some examples of words containing the letter ü and what vowel the ü is combined with, either e or i. Now let's take a look at some sentences that contain u and ü in Spanish! Want to learn more about Spanish pronunciation? Check out the following articles! • How to Pronounce the Letter "U" in Spanish • SPA, IPA, and ABC Pronunciation


--- [“U” with an Accent | SpanishDictionary.com] ---
“U” with an Accent The letter u with a tilde serves a variety of purposes in Spanish, such as marking word stress and distinguishing between types of words. Ú and Word Stress A written accent placed over a letter primarily serves as a pronunciation marker. It indicates which syllable to stress. In words like crepúsculo(twilight), the accent is necessary because it tells us to pronounce the first u with greater emphasis. Let’s take a look at the various types of words that use an u with a tilde: Diphthongs and Hiatus A diptongo(diphthong) is any combination of two vowels pronounced as one syllable, for example a strong + weak or weak + weak vowel combination, as in lengua(language), canción(song), or cuidar(to care for). On the other hand, when a sequence of vowels is pronounced as two syllables in Spanish, that sequence is called an hiato(hiatus). A hiatus may be formed by a combination of an unstressed open vowel (a, e, o) + a stressed closed vowel (i, u), as in reír(to laugh), oír(to hear), and transeúnte(passerby), or a combination of a stressed closed vowel + unstressed open vowel, as in María(Mary) and frío(cold). The reason that Raúland baúlhave a tilde over the u is that they contain an unstressed open vowel followed by a stressed closed vowel—that is, a hiatus—and hiatus carry a tilde no matter what! Ú and Word Types A tilde over a vowel may mark the difference between certain possessive adjectives and subject pronouns. The following examples demonstrate that when a tilde is added, the possessive adjective tu(your) changes to the subject pronoun tú(you). | examples | |---| Writing/Typing an Accent Over the U The tilde over the u is written as a short diagonal line, from the top right to the bottom left. To type ú on your keyboard, you can copy and paste ú, use the character code Alt + 0250, or learn the keyboard shortcuts on your Mac or PC. Take a look at how to type ú on your Mac or PC! On a PC There are several keyboard shortcuts you can use for Spanish letters and punctuation on your PC. Please note that these shortcuts sometimes only work on newer computers and may only work in Microsoft Office. If you’re using Office for Windows, use the following shortcut: - For an ú, press Ctrl + ', then the u. On a Mac To get the ú on a Mac, hold down the Option/Alt key (⌥), and press the e key. Then, release both keys and press the u key. If you write in Spanish often, we recommend going into your settings and adding the US International keyboard. This keyboard layout supports all major Western European languages, and it uses the right Alt key as a modifier for special characters. Would you like to learn more about accents and word stress in Spanish? Check out these articles!


--- [‎CBC Gem: Shows & Live TV App - App Store] ---
Supported Features VoiceOver Voice Control Larger Text Dark Interface Differentiate Without Colour Alone Sufficient Contrast Captions Audio Descriptions Free · In-App Purchases The developer, CBC, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. For more information, see the developer’s privacy policy . The following data may be used to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies: The following data may be collected and linked to your identity: The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity: The developer indicated that this app supports the following accessibility features. Learn More For more information, visit the developer’s accessibility website .


--- [CBC Gem] ---
Saint-Pierre (NEW EPISODE) Exiled to Saint-Pierre, Fitz and Arch solve unique crimes. Exiled to Saint-Pierre, Fitz and Arch solve unique crimes. Vicky McClure stars in this explosive crime-drama series. A spirited con woman and a by-the-book detective join forces Two wildly different women battle menopause and midlife. Paralympic hopefuls on their journey to Milano Cortina 2026. A star rookie police officer fights to exonerate her father. Meghan's trailblazing rise to her dramatic royal departure.


--- [Live TV | Ottawa | CBC Gem] ---
Live TV Ottawa Morning - Tuesday Also Live Now - Calgary. The National, 2026-03-02. Started at 11:00 AM. Offered with Closed Captions. This content is only available to our signed in members.11:00 AM - Fredericton. New Brunswick First - Tuesday REGIONAL NEWS, Tuesday REGIONAL NEWS. Started at 11:10 AM. Offered with Closed Captions. This content is only available to our signed in members.11:10 AM New Brunswick First - Tuesday REGIONAL NEWS - Halifax. Kingdom Force Shorts - 1-19B Gimme a Break, 1-19B Gimme a Break. Started at 11:13 AM. Offered with Closed Captions and Described Video. This content is only available to our signed in members.11:13 AM Kingdom Force Shorts - 1-19B Gimme a Break - St. John's. Kingdom Force Shorts - 1-19B Gimme a Break, 1-19B Gimme a Break. Started at 11:13 AM. Offered with Closed Captions and Described Video. This content is only available to our signed in members.11:13 AM Kingdom Force Shorts - 1-19B Gimme a Break CBC News Network Become a Premium subscriber to access Canada's source for breaking news, live event coverage, and in-depth analysis 24/7, on all of your devices. News & Current Affairs - Information Radio – Winnipeg. Today at 12:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. Information Radio – Winnipeg - Live at The Brier with Canada's biggest curling fans. Today at 5:30 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. Live at The Brier with Canada's biggest curling fans Sports - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 1 - Carleton vs UNB. Thursday at 5:30 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 1 - Carleton vs UNB - ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 1 - Heerenveen. Thursday at 6:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 1 - Heerenveen - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 2 - McGill vs Calgary. Thursday at 7:30 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 2 - McGill vs Calgary - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 3 - Saskatchewan vs UBC. Thursday at 11:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 3 - Saskatchewan vs UBC - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 4 - TMU vs Laval. Friday at 1:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 4 - TMU vs Laval - FIS Alpine Skiing Women's World Cup: DH - Val di Fassa. Friday at 10:30 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Alpine Skiing Women's World Cup: DH - Val di Fassa - ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 2 - Heerenveen. Friday at 6:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 2 - Heerenveen - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 1 - UBC vs TMU. Friday at 7:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 1 - UBC vs TMU - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 2 - Carleton vs Laval. Friday at 9:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 2 - Carleton vs Laval - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 1 - Quebec. Friday at 10:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 1 - Quebec - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 2 - Quebec. Saturday at 12:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 2 - Quebec - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 3 - Victoria vs Calgary. Saturday at 1:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 3 - Victoria vs Calgary - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 4 - Bishop's vs Acadia. Saturday at 3:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Quarterfinal # 4 - Bishop's vs Acadia - FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: GS - RUN 1 - Kranjska Gora. Saturday at 8:30 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: GS - RUN 1 - Kranjska Gora - FIS Snowboard World Cup: SBX - Erzurum. Saturday at 9:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Snowboard World Cup: SBX - Erzurum - FIS Alpine Skiing Women's World Cup: DH - Val di Fassa. Saturday at 9:45 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Alpine Skiing Women's World Cup: DH - Val di Fassa - FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: GS - RUN 2 - Kranjska Gora. Saturday at 11:30 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: GS - RUN 2 - Kranjska Gora - FIS Snowboard World Cup: PSL - Spindleruv Mlyn. Saturday at 12:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Snowboard World Cup: PSL - Spindleruv Mlyn - ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 3 - Heerenveen. Saturday at 12:05 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 3 - Heerenveen - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 1 - Calgary. Saturday at 7:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 1 - Calgary - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 1 - Quebec. Saturday at 8:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 1 - Quebec - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 2 - Calgary. Saturday at 9:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Consolation Semifinal # 2 - Calgary - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 2 - Quebec. Saturday at 10:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 2 - Quebec - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 1 - Calgary. Sunday at 12:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 1 - Calgary - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Consolation Final - Quebec. Sunday at 12:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Consolation Final - Quebec - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 2 - Calgary. Sunday at 2:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Championship Semifinal # 2 - Calgary - FIS Snowboard World Cup: Halfpipe - Sapporo. Sunday at 2:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Snowboard World Cup: Halfpipe - Sapporo - FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: SL - RUN 1 - Kranjska Gora. Sunday at 7:30 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: SL - RUN 1 - Kranjska Gora - FIS Snowboard World Cup: SBX - Erzurum. Sunday at 8:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Snowboard World Cup: SBX - Erzurum - FIS Alpine Skiing Women's World Cup: SG - Val di Fassa. Sunday at 8:45 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Alpine Skiing Women's World Cup: SG - Val di Fassa - FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: SL - RUN 2 - Kranjska Gora. Sunday at 10:30 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. FIS Alpine Skiing Men's World Cup: SL - RUN 2 - Kranjska Gora - ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 4 - Heerenveen. Sunday at 12:30 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. ISU Long Track Speed Skating: World Championships - Day 4 - Heerenveen - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Consolation Final - Calgary. Sunday at 5:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Consolation Final - Calgary - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Bronze Medal - Quebec. Sunday at 5:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Bronze Medal - Quebec - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Bronze Medal - Calgary. Sunday at 7:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Bronze Medal - Calgary - U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Gold Medal - Quebec. Sunday at 9:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Women's Basketball Championship: Gold Medal - Quebec - U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Gold Medal - Calgary. Sunday at 11:00 PM. This content is only available to our signed in members. U SPORTS Men's Basketball Championship: Gold Medal - Calgary - Arctic Winter Games Opening Ceremony. Monday at 2:00 AM. This content is only available to our signed in members. Arctic Winter Games Opening Ceremony CBC News Channel News stories that matter to Canadians with the context they need to understand Canada and the world. CBC Comedy What’s funny, free, and streaming 24/7? CBC Comedy - Canada’s free comedy streaming channel. Laugh along with your favourite CBC Comedy series, plus Canadian sketch comedy and standup specials. If it’s laughter you’re after, you found it. Olympic Channel Olympic Channel is a 24-hour digital livestream with up-close access to the greatest moments from Olympic sports. CBC Kids Channel Watch the best kids shows - anytime and ad-free - with the CBC Kids. Stream all the favourites from Hey Duggee to Molly of Denali to Dino Ranch and more. CBC News BC Channel CBC News B.C. delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Calgary Channel CBC News Calgary delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Edmonton Channel CBC News Edmonton delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Manitoba Channel CBC News Manitoba delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News New Brunswick Channel CBC News New Brunswick delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News NL Channel CBC News NL delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News North Channel CBC News North delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Nova Scotia Channel CBC News Nova Scotia delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Ottawa Channel CBC News Ottawa delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News PEI Channel CBC News PEI delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Quebec Channel CBC News Quebec delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Saskatchewan Channel CBC News Saskatchewan delivers news you need when you need it. CBC News Toronto Channel CBC News Toronto delivers the news you need when you need it. CBC News Windsor Channel CBC News Windsor delivers news you need when you need it. Heartland Channel Journey to Heartland Ranch, where a multi-generational family navigates life’s ups and downs in Canada’s beloved, long-running drama, set against Alberta’s stunning foothills. Murdoch Mysteries Channel Detective Murdoch cracks Toronto’s toughest cases in the early 20th century, using groundbreaking tech, faith and a quirky team. In this CBC critically acclaimed series, every body is a mystery. Schitt’s Creek Channel The filthy-rich Roses suddenly find themselves broke and in their worst nightmare - starting over in Schitt’s Creek. The hit CBC comedy series stars Eugene Levy, Catherine O’Hara, Dan Levy and Annie Murphy.
