=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Friends S 4 E 1 The One With The Jellyfish - TV Tropes]
Upon Ross cracking and shouting he and Rachel were on a break, Chandler and Joey ask Monica if she'd like to go to Central Perk. Of course, they don't manage to get out of there before Ross and Rachel storm out of the bedroom yelling at each other.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/FriendsS4E1TheOneWithTheJellyfish

[Amanda (Ross' date) | Friends Central | Fandom]
Amanda is a woman Ross thinks he dates, but she is only using him as a babysitter for her son in "The One With Joey's New Girlfriend". She was portrayed by Laura Stepp.
URL: https://friends.fandom.com/wiki/Amanda_(Ross%27_date)

[Watch Friends Online | Season 4 (1997) | TV Guide]
Season 4 24 Episodes 1997 - 1998 Episode 1 The One with the Jellyfish Thu, Sep 25, 1997 22 mins This episode picks up exactly where the last one ended. Ross chose Rachel's room and they kiss.
URL: https://www.tvguide.com/tvshows/friends/episodes-season-4/1030937287/

[Friends: Season 4 (1997) — The Movie Database (TMDB)]
Sep 25, 1997 · Ross chooses between Rachel and his bald-headed girlfriend Bonnie. Phoebe struggles to deal with the revelation that her mother's friend is actually her mother. Monica gets stung by a jellyfish, forcing Chandler and Joey to step up to the plate in order to relieve her pain.
URL: https://www.themoviedb.org/tv/1668-friends/season/4/episode/1

[Friends: A Complete Timeline of Ross & Rachel's Relationship]
The Friends episode "The One In Vegas," which served as the season 5 finale, is one of the funniest moments in Ross and Rachel's timeline. After arguing with each other throughout their trip to Las Vegas, Ross and Rachel end up getting drunk and marrying each other in a spur of the moment decision.
URL: https://screenrant.com/friends-ross-rachel-relationship-break-timeline/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Friends S 4 E 1 The One With The Jellyfish - TV Tropes] ---
Ross has chosen Rachel over Bonnie, but their relationship takes a new turn. Phoebe struggles with the news that Phoebe Abbott is her birth mother. Monica gets stung by a jellyfish at the beach. Tropes: - Artistic License – Biology: In reality, urinating on a jellyfish sting not only doesn't help but it can even make things worse. - Beach Bury: Happened once again to Joey. Not from being buried in the sand, like in the last episode, but rather from the beach water entering the large hole he dug right where the waves collapse. Monica and Chandler actually have to help him get out of there. - Beach Episode: The bad weather from the previous episode has broken so Monica, Chandler and Joey can finally head to the beach. - Big "OMG!": Chandler's frustrated reaction to Ross once again insisting that he and Rachel were on a break. - Dark Secret: Parodied with what Chandler, Joey, and Monica experienced on the beach.Joey: A lot of things happened on that trip that [looks towards Chandler] we should never ever talk about. Ross: What the hell happened on that beach? Joey: It's between us and the sea, Ross! [Ross looks incredulous, but Chandler silently nods to agree with Joey] - Don't Ask: Chandler, Joey, and Monica when asked about what happened at the beach. Eventually, though, they crack. - Door Slam of Rage: Phoebe Buffay does this after rejecting Phoebe Abbott's apology, leaving the latter's house. They would make amends by the end of the episode. - Doorstopper: As a condition of getting back together with Ross, Rachel makes him read a letter ("Eighteen pages! Front and back!") that he has to accept in full. In much of it Rachel "rambles" (according to Ross), writing it like if she were speaking to him face-to-face. No wonder Ross falls asleep while reading the letter (at 5:30 a.m.) and then says he accepts it in full, only discovering later that he assumed full responsibility for the previous breakup of their relationship, when they were "on a break" (because he slept with Chloe the copy center girl). - Downer Ending: Ross ruins his chances of getting back together with Rachel when he finally confesses to not reading the paper for taking responsibilities for their breakup and this results in them not only breaking up again but also breaking ties with each other for good (or at least for the immediate future). - Electric Jellyfish: Monica gets stung by one while she and Chandler were helping Joey get out of the hole he dug, which sets the B-plot involving her, him, and Chandler. It hurts her really badly. - Explain, Explain... Oh, Crap!: During the explanation of how Monica got stung by jellyfish, Joey mentions the documentary he saw on the Discovery Channel. Ross says he saw that one, too, and realizes mid-sentence what this means. - Failed Attempt at Drama: Phoebe storms out of Phoebe Abbott's house yelling that she never wants to see her again...and then awkwardly walks back in with her hand over her eyes because she forgot her purse. - Friendship Moment: Joey saying that if it was necessary, he'd pee on any one of his friends. Ross gets what he means and gives a somewhat appreciative nod. - Godzilla Threshold: In the face of Ross, Rachel, and Phoebe being grossed out, Monica insists that the sheer pain caused by the jellyfish sting meant she had to go ahead with the only available remedy. - Goodbye, Cruel World!: When Phoebe goes to tell Ursula about finding their birth mother Ursula reveals that she's known for years as their adoptive mother mentioned it in her suicide note, which Phoebe didn't know existed. Ursula then tries to pass off a hastily scribbled note as the real thing which Phoebe immediately sees through. - Honor Before Reason: Double subverted with Ross. He is immediately outraged upon learning from the letter that Rachel wants him to take full responsibility for their break-up, but Chandler and Joey caution him that picking his "We were on a break" fight again will cost him the relationship he so badly wanted back. Ross acknowledges they're right and initially bites his tongue in the face of Rachel talking about him owning up to what he did, but he eventually cracks under the pressure of Rachel condescendingly talking about him "cheating". - Innocently Insensitive: In bed, Rachel talks about how Ross owned up to what caused their break-up. She has no idea how much this irritates him, until he reveals he still believes they were on a break. - The Loins Sleep Tonight: Possibly alluded to (it could be this, or going off prematurely) when Rachel is yelling at Ross during their argument.Rachel: And hey, just so you know: It's not that common, it doesn't happen to every guy and it IS a big deal! (slams the door) Chandler: I KNEW IT! - Never My Fault: Ross and Rachel finalize their breakup because neither of them are willing to acknowledge their role in why it ended the first time around. - Rachel, to the point of making Ross sign her own written document confirming everything that went wrong in their relationship was his fault. When he feigns approving it, she acts incredibly smug about it, to the point Ross cracks and decides it's not worth it.Ross: *snaps* And for the record, it took two people to break up this relationship! Rachel: *outraged* Yeah! You, and that girl from the copy place! - Ross goes back insisting that they were "on a break," ignoring his previous acknowledgement after Rachel pushed the point that he would have been devastated if the situation had been reversed. - Rachel, to the point of making Ross sign her own written document confirming everything that went wrong in their relationship was his fault. When he feigns approving it, she acts incredibly smug about it, to the point Ross cracks and decides it's not worth it. - Polyamory: Phoebe Abbott admits that she, Lily and Frank Buffay were a couple, to her biological daughter Phoebe Buffay.Phoebe Abbott: Frank, Lily and I... The three of us were... a couple. - Previously on…: Done by Joey, only he has no idea how the various plot lines that don't involve him ended. He ends the recap by offering to get Chandler so he can explain things. - Rhetorical Question Blunder: When Phoebe Abbott explains giving up her children and admitting she was scared and stupid.Phoebe Abbott: I mean, you were remember what it was like to be 18 years old, don't you? Phoebe Buffay: Yeah, let's see, my mom had killed herself, my dad had run off, and I was living in a Gremlin with a man named Cindy who talked to his hand. - Rhetorical Request Blunder: In response to Polyamory, Phoebe says she doesn't even know how that would work. Just as Phoebe Abbott starts to explain, our Phoebe asserts she wasn't asking to find out. - The Scream: The camera cuts to the kitchen just before Ross shouts, "WE WERE ON A BREAK!" Chandler and Joey enter immediately afterwards, having been able to hear him from across the hall. The audience will later get to see the moment from inside the room in "TOW The Invitation". - Screw This, I'm Outta Here!: Upon Ross cracking and shouting he and Rachel were on a break, Chandler and Joey ask Monica if she'd like to go to Central Perk. Of course, they don't manage to get out of there before Ross and Rachel storm out of the bedroom yelling at each other. - Sequel Episode: Begins where the last episode of the previous season, "The One at the Beach", ended. - Suddenly Shouting: - Ross gets in a few examples, first when finishing the letter and later when fighting with Rachel."It so does NOT!" "WE WERE ON A BREAK!" "It was five thirty in the morning. And you had rambled on for eighteen pages. FRONT AND BACK!" [on Rachel saying they're over] "FINE BY ME!" "Don't you worry about me falling asleep. I STILL HAVE YOUR LETTER!" - Rachel gets in some, as well, particularly when telling Ross about how a certain something doesn't happen to every guy. - Monica when denouncing all jellyfish. - Ross gets in a few examples, first when finishing the letter and later when fighting with Rachel. - Urine Trouble: Joey has to pee on Monica to treat her jellyfish sting but gets "the stage fright" and can't do it. Chandler steps up but apparently has some aiming issues.Joey: That's right, I stepped up. She's my friend and she needed help. If I had to, I'd pee on any one of you.


--- [Amanda (Ross' date) | Friends Central | Fandom] ---
- For other pages with the name "Amanda" see Amanda. Amanda is a woman Ross thinks he dates, but she is only using him as a babysitter for her son in "The One With Joey's New Girlfriend". She was portrayed by Laura Stepp. Friends Central - We are currently in the application process for electing a new admin. If you're interested, visit this page to apply READ MORE Amanda is a woman Ross thinks he dates, but she is only using him as a babysitter for her son in "The One With Joey's New Girlfriend". She was portrayed by Laura Stepp.


--- [Watch Friends Online | Season 4 (1997) | TV Guide] ---
No content


--- [Friends: Season 4 (1997) — The Movie Database (TMDB)] ---
Season 4 (1997) ← Back to season list Episodes 23 The One with the Jellyfish Ross chooses between Rachel and his bald-headed girlfriend Bonnie. Phoebe struggles to deal with the revelation that her mother's friend is actually her mother. Monica gets stung by a jellyfish, forcing Chandler and Joey to step up to the plate in order to relieve her pain. Read MoreThe One with the Cat Phoebe believes that her adoptive mother's spirit resides in a cat that jumped into her guitar case in Central Perk. Monica goes on a date with Rachel's hunky high-school boyfriend, who was cool in high-school, but a failure now. And when Joey and Chandler decide to sell the entertainment center, Joey takes stupidity to a new level. Read MoreThe One with the 'Cuffs Monica caters a party for her mother, who still doesn't quite know how to talk to her daughter. Chandler's encounter with Rachel's boss leads to an embarrassing situation. And an encyclopedia salesman takes advantage of Joey. Read MoreThe One with the Ballroom Dancing Joey attempts ballroom dancing in order to help Monica and Rachel keep their illegal sublet. Phoebe is attracted to one of her massage clients. And Ross tries to help Chandler quit the gym. Read MoreThe One with Joey's New Girlfriend Chandler hits on a woman at Central Perk, not realizing she is Joey's new girlfriend. He soon realizes he is very attracted to, possibly in love, with her. Ross and Rachel play the jealousy game in their relationships. And Phoebe desperately tries to catch a cold after discovering that her voice is sexier and her singing better when she has phlegm in her throat. Read MoreThe One with the Dirty Girl Ross's new girlfriend seems nearly perfect until he visits her house and discovers that her apartment is incredibly dirty. Chandler helps Joey pick out a thoughtful present for Kathy's birthday. Rachel attempts to finish a crossword puzzle by herself. And Phoebe helps Monica cater a funeral. Read MoreThe One Where Chandler Crosses the Line Chandler must decide between the girl of his dreams and his best friend when he and Kathy share a passionate kiss. Needless to say, Joey is not happy when he finds out about it. And nobody wants to tell Ross how awful his keyboard playing is. Read MoreThe One with Chandler in a Box Chandler agrees to spend Thanksgiving in a shipping crate as penance for kissing Kathy. The gang decides to give each other Secret Santa gifts. After Monica gets ice in her eye, she ends up visiting Richard's son, who is as attracted to Monica as his father was. Read MoreThe One Where They're Going to Party! Chandler and Ross's college friend Gandalf is planning to come to town. Gandalf is "the party wizard." Ross and Chandler are very excited until Gandalf cancels. However, they decide to make their own party with Joey's help. Joanna squashes Rachel's chance at a promotion. And when Monica fills in for a friend as food critic for a small newspaper, she must decide between a steady job as head chef of a restaurant she panned or keeping her catering business with her friend Phoebe. Read MoreThe One with the Girl from Poughkeepsie Ross must decide whether to continue dating a girl he must travel two-and-a-half hours to see. Chandler sets Rachel up with a co-worker who misunderstands her intentions. Monica is being treated poorly by her new co-workers so she hires Joey just so she can fire him and show who's the boss. And Phoebe tries to write the perfect holiday song. Read MoreThe One with Phoebe's Uterus Phoebe considers her options when her brother visits with his new wife and asks her to carry their child. Joey works as a tour guide at Ross's museum and tries to tear down the walls between tour guides and scientists. And Chandler seeks advice from Monica and Rachel after he fears that he will not live up to Kathy's sexual expectations--especially since the last guy she slept with before him was Joey. Read MoreThe One with the Embryos Phoebe's uterus is examined for implantation of the embryos. Meanwhile, a seemingly harmless game between Chandler and Joey against Monica and Rachel escalates into a full blown contest where the stakes are raised higher and higher. Read MoreThe One with Rachel's Crush After seeing Kathy's play, Chandler becomes convinced she is cheating on him with her co-star. Rachel develops a crush on one of her customers. Monica becomes jealous when she realizes she is no longer the 'hostess'. Read MoreThe One with Joey's Dirty Day After a three-day fishing trip with his dad, Joey is in a jam when he doesn't have time to take a shower before going to the set of Charlton Heston's new movie. Rachel, continuing to fawn over clothing shopper Joshua, sets Ross up with her boss's niece Emily when she is unable to take her to the opera. And while Chandler is despondent after his breakup with Kathy, the girls take him to a strip club. Read MoreThe One with All the Rugby Chandler runs into Janice, and finds her more irritating than ever. Meanwhile, Ross attempts to learn how to play rugby to impress Emily and Monica obsesses over an electric switch in her new apartment. Read MoreThe One with the Fake Party With two days left until Emily's departure back to England, Rachel throws a fake party for her, just so that she can see Joshua outside of work. And a pregnant (vegetarian) Phoebe craves meat. Read MoreThe One with the Free Porn Chandler and Joey discover that they're getting a free porno station on their TV. Monica encourages Ross to tell Emily he loves her just before she leaves for London. Phoebe gets some shocking news when she visits her OB-GYN. Read MoreThe One with Rachel's New Dress Rachel has an awkward encounter with Joshua's parents. Phoebe is offered the chance to name one of the triplets. Ross becomes paranoid when Emily goes to London with Susan. Read MoreThe One with All the Haste Ross proposes to Emily. Monica and Rachel try to win their apartment back from Chandler and Joey. Read MoreThe One with All the Wedding Dresses Chandler takes Joey to a sleep clinic when he starts snoring. After Ross asks Monica to pick up Emily's wedding dress, she tries it on and can't stop wearing it. Meanwhile, jealous of Ross's proposal to Emily, Rachel tries to talk Joshua into marriage. Read MoreThe One with the Invitation As Ross and Emily send out wedding invitations, he and Rachel each look back on their relationship together while Joey and Chandler look for a purpose in life. Read MoreThe One with the Worst Best Man Ever Joey convinces Ross to pick him as his best man instead of Chandler. He throws a great bachelor party, but the next morning he's shocked to find out that the wedding ring is missing and he suspects that the stripper stole it. Meanwhile, Phoebe is experiencing major mood swings due to her pregnancy and the girls decide to throw her a baby shower to cheer her up, but it only makes matters worse. Read MoreThe One with Ross's Wedding The gang heads over to London for Ross and Emily's wedding. Joey can't contain his excitement about London which annoys Chandler to no end and results in two of them arguing. While the guys are touring the city, Monica, together with Ross and Emily, visit the chapel where the wedding ceremony is supposed to take place only to find out that it's being torn down prematurely. Phoebe tries to warn the gang that Rachel is coming to London to tell Ross that she still loves him. After the initial excitement about visiting England dissipates, Joey begins to feel homesick, however, one of the bridesmaids helps him to forget about it. Meanwhile, Ross and Emily's parents get into an argument over the bill for the wedding. Read More


--- [Friends: A Complete Timeline of Ross & Rachel's Relationship] ---
No content
