=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mowalola Ogunlesi]
She enrolled in the Master of Arts programme at Central Saint Martins that year but dropped out in 2018 to have more creative freedom in her work.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mowalola_Ogunlesi

[Everything You Need to Know About Mowalola]
Aug 25, 2020 — While she stayed on at the institution with the intent to complete an MA, she swiftly dropped out of the program in pursuit of freedom and ...
URL: https://www.papermag.com/mowalola-ogunlesi

[An essential guide to the world of cult designer Mowalola]
Jun 24, 2022 — Five years ago, Mowalola Ogunlesi set 1 Granary Square alight with her Central Saint Martins BA graduate collection. Delivered to a panel of ...
URL: https://i-d.co/article/mowalola-fashion-music-guide/

[Mowalola, Fashion's Subversive Rising Star, Debuts in Paris | BoF]
Jun 24, 2022 — The designer's star was already on the rise when she quit the Master's program at Central Saint Martins. Her Bachelor's degree show had won ...
URL: https://www.businessoffashion.com/articles/sports/mowalola-fashions-subversive-rising-star-debuts-in-paris/

[Emerging Designer Mowalola Ogunlesi by Aybuke Barkcin]
Nov 25, 2020 — After dropping out of Central Saint Martins one year before graduating, Mowalola Ogunlesi held her first show with the support of Fashion ...
URL: https://ashadedviewonfashion.com/2020/11/25/emerging-designers-mowalola-by-aybuke-barkcin/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mowalola Ogunlesi] ---
Mowalola Ogunlesi (born 25 March 1994) is a Nigerian-born fashion designer and singer working and living in London. She is known for working with a wide variety of textiles such as leather and PVC to produce non-traditional silhouettes inspired by Nigerian and London youth culture.


--- [Everything You Need to Know About Mowalola] ---
The news of the YZY Gap partnership announced earlier this summer was all anyone in fashion could talk about. The excitement escalated, however, when it was learned 25-year-old Lagos-born designer Mowalola Ogunlesi would be the design director of Kanye West's latest project. Given her new high-profile position, Ogunlesi's work is rapidly gaining traction on social media. But who is this young talent that has been entrusted with helping to oversee the design direction of the new Gap venture? Born to two Nigerian fashion designers, Ogunlesi moved to the UK and attended a boarding school in Surrey when she was 12. The London-residing designer went on to complete a BA in Fashion Textiles at Central Saint Martins, which has birthed fashion legends such as Alexander McQueen, Stella McCartney and Riccardo Tisci. During her studies she debuted a '70s Nigerian rock scene-inspired menswear collection entitled "Psychedelic," which showcased her now signature structured skin-exposing tops, straight-leg pants and bright leathers. While she stayed on at the institution with the intent to complete an MA, she swiftly dropped out of the program in pursuit of freedom and creative license to design in London. ("I do what I fucking want," she told The Peninsulist.) Ogunlesi held her first show at London Fashion Week in 2019 with the support of design incubator Fashion East. After impressing front-row attendees Skepta and Kim Jones with the debut of her sex-charged and gender-fluid designs, she began to gain traction throughout the British fashion scene. Her accolades piled up after this as she threw herself into multiple projects such as a collab with Nike to design the Nigerian football team's uniform, working alongside Skepta on his "Pure Water" music video and being one of six designers picked by British Vogue to dress the 60th anniversary Barbie. She has also experienced a recent surge in commercial success. When she launched her new website, Mowalola caused a buzz online with her petite bundle bags and tie-dye trousers (nearly all of which are sold out). She also teased the prospect of a Mowalola thong earlier this month, a fitting addition to her assortment of bold and erotic designs. Her avant-garde looks and provocative posts have amassed an Instagram following of over 117k users, including Frank Ocean and Law Roach. Under her fitting social media alias, "DriP Gawd," Ogunlesi provides a raw and witty insight into the thought process behind her creations. Her tweets such as "How do you feel?" or "Outdated minds are a danger to the world" are a candid reflection on the thoughts and emotions that fuel her creative process. "I also think just for your mental health, having to put so much of yourself into your work every six months is a lot," Ogunlesi told Kaleidoscope. "You need time to stop and think, 'Okay, what do I want to do next?' Otherwise, everything becomes work — even creating becomes work — and then it shows in the clothes." This confession of an embedded sense of self in her work gives a profound meaning to the eccentric colors and barely-there silhouettes displayed in her collections. The conversations around the intentions behind her clothes have even found themselves in controversy. Naomi Campbell was once spotted sporting a halter neck dress from Mowalola's "Coming For Blood" collection — a striking white garment that features a contrasting deep red bullethole wound. Due to the nature of the event that Campbell was attending, a Fashion For Relief gala, the dress was viewed in bad taste as many interpreted it as a social comment of the political climate surrounding gun violence. Ogunlesi, however, took to her Instagram to set the record straight regarding the meaning of her dress by revealing that it actually signified "the horrific feeling of falling in love." The supermodel is not the only well-known face to wear Mowalola's designs, however. Drake was also spotted donning a custom Mowalola leather jacket which depicted Halle Berry on its back, and influencers such as the Clermont Twins were dressed in skin-tight Mowalola for their Mont Boudoir collaboration. There's even an Instagram page @peoplewearingmowalola which acts as a shrine to all of the Mowalola outfits that have been worn by celebrities and fashionistas alike. The upcoming collaboration with West, while a new revelation to most at the time of announcement, was foreshadowed by Kim Kardashian West a few weeks prior when she posted a picture alongside her husband dressed in an exquisite brown vinyl cutout two-piece designed by Mowalola. The designer has been outspoken about the roots of her inspiration, stating that it mostly stems from "music, film and people." These multiple sources of creative inspiration are also evident in the ventures she has made outside of the fashion world. From releasing a short film "Silent Madness" in March to hosting events at the coveted music platform-turned-club Boiler Room, her creativity is seeping across a variety of fields and in turn forging her a multi-faceted career. Ogunlesi, when talking to SSENSE, addressed the gender-fluid nature of her designs acknowledging that "gender constructs don't need to have certain wardrobe restrictions." It's a message made loud and clear from the rising star, who is part of the new wave of young British ethnic minorities changing and challenging societal boundaries in fashion including Grace Wales Bonner, Priya Ahluwalia and Bianca Saunders. Photo via Getty From Your Site Articles - Seven Black Artists You Should Know - PAPER › - Gap Announces Multi-Year Deal With Kanye West's Yeezy Line ... › - Yeezy Gap's First Drop Is a $200 Blue Nylon Jacket - PAPER › - Ye and Demna Join Forces for Yeezy Gap's Latest - PAPER › - YZYSZN9 Shows New "White Lives Matter" Design, The Internet Reacts › - Mowalola Looks to the Future With 'BUNDLES' › - An Otherwordly Escape With Mowalola - PAPER Magazine › Related Articles Around the Web


--- [An essential guide to the world of cult designer Mowalola] ---
Five years ago, Mowalola Ogunlesi set 1 Granary Square alight with her Central Saint Martins BA graduate collection. Delivered to a panel of judges including fashion writers Suzy Menkes and Sarah Mower, the Nigerian-born designer presented a refreshing vision of Black masculinity that was strong, flamboyant and irreverent to gendered binaries at once. It eschewed the tired, colonial gaze that so often informs depictions of Black men, instead offering a textured study of Lagos via London that instantly captivated the fash pack. Now, Mowalola’s fan base includes names in both underground music scenes, such as her close friend Deto Black, and global icons like Kanye West, who would appoint her as creative director of his Yeezy Gap line in 2020. Alongside fashion, she makes music and understands herself broadly as a creative. “I am a designer, but I don’t really see myself as just a designer,” she explained in an interview. “I am an artist. I just want to create.” Citing music as her keystone reference, Mowalola emerged from the unique ecosystem of designers, artists and imagemakers that coalesced around the multi-hyphenate DJs Mischa Notcutt, Ms Carrie Stacks and Akinola Davies’ night, PDA, as well as other queer– and Black-run parties. Refusing to succumb to the market-driven demands of fashion, she’s taken things at her own pace, creating only when it suits her. After nearly three years out of the traditional fashion circuit, she’s set to return with an off-schedule show during Paris Fashion Week. As she shows her latest collection, we highlight some of her finest moments marching to the beat of her drum. The Graduate Collection Titled ‘Psychedelic’, Mowalola’s SS18 offering was ambitious for a BA student, although it certainly succeeded. Presented as a catwalk show, a film and a lookbook styled by Ib Kamara, her magnum opus took inspiration from 1970s Nigerian rock music and a niche motorbike subculture in Lagos. This translated to heavy leathers speckled with lurid paint, with the show featuring an all-black cast brought together by artist and then-casting agent Rhea Dillon. Carrying headlights, the models walked proudly while hood ornaments and v-lines glinted. The reception was universally positive. “Mowa blew me away at her CSM show. The collection was insane, as was the casting and styling – the whole world and energy she had created around the clothes was unlike any other student I’d seen,” remembers Fashion East director, Lulu Kennedy. “I went backstage and took photos of her models and already knew I’d love to work with her.” Heartwarmingly, her collection resonated and converted opinions back home, too. As Mowalola recounts in a conversation for Kaleidoscope with one of her former CSM tutors, Reba Maybury, her Nigerian aunties previously scorned the idea of men wearing lace. When they saw the collection, that changed. The Fashion East Collections True to her word, the talent incubator Lulu Kennedy did indeed wind up working with Mowalola. Offered a spot with fashion’s favourite non-profit – responsible for igniting the careers of Kim Jones, Martine Rose, Wales Bonner and more – Mowalola dropped out of the CSM MA she’d enrolled on, and set to work alongside Lulu and co. Opening with the aptly named ‘Exposed’ collection for AW19, she showed alongside Irish designer Robyn Lynch and Stefan Cooke. In good company, Mowalola stepped up the raunch and doubled-down on flashes of bare, oiled-up skin. While her two co-showers remained within the remit of menswear, Mowalola opted for a mixed-gender cast – albeit one that remained all black. Jackets were cropped, trousers were lowered below v-lines like a reverse bumster and thong silhouettes were upturned into vests. Unlike with her graduate collection, this would be seized up by buyers with commercial intent. That she stuck by her guns, flipping the bird on cultural norms as well as financial incentives to design clothes that file neatly under one of two binaries is testament to her integrity. The Naomi Bullet-hole Dress Mowalola’s sophomore collection at Fashion East was also the last time she showed. Named ‘Coming for Blood’, the SS20 show departed from the pains of falling in love and the Black experience in a systemically rigged society. Belt buckles featuring middle-American insignia and Christian iconography poked at tricky histories with sardonic tact, while bleeding bullet wounds punctuated a pristine white column dress and a blazer with a more direct message. Worn by Naomi Campbell to the Fashion for Relief gala in 2019, the leather halterneck sparked a media furore from foaming tabloids upset by its political potency. Eventually, the dress in question was addressed by the designer herself in an Instagram post. “I make clothes to challenge people’s minds,” read the statement. “This dress is extremely emotional to me – it screams my lived experience as a Black person. It shows no matter how well dressed you are or well behaved, we are time after time, seen as a walking target.” Mowalola finished by pinpointing the issue in its most immediate manifestation: “Inequality is still rife and newspapers clawing at my work is testament to that.” Despite articulating complex problematics with such eloquence through fashion, she staunchly rejects the role of activist. “I feel like a lot of people can’t understand that Black people are able to express their emotions in ways that white people do,” she explains in one interview. “I’m really just telling you how I feel.” Silent Madness For all her embrace of physicality, sex and hedonism, Mowalola is cogniscant of the ills of excess. Examining this dichotomy, her exhibition at the Greenwich Peninsula’s NOW Gallery in 2019 put the hellish aspects of fun in full view. Soundtracked by several of her frequent collaborators including James Massiah, the installation was a cloying fever dream of spiked mannequins. Sparked by a desire to create her own version of a Renaissance painting, the show sought to remedy the disconnect felt when visiting museums herself, Mowalola explained in an interview at the space. Following its closure, the concept was translated into a sweat-inducing film directed by photographer Jordan Hemingway. With experimental musician Yves Tumor as protagonist, unsettling scenes unfold as the Mowalola-clad producer climbs and crashes between drug-induced euphoria and hallucinations in a hazy clubland. At the end of the film, Yves has left the confines of the club for a housing estate where his convulsions reach a climax before he bleeds out. Too much of a good thing is bad, goes the saying. Shedding little light on the meaning behind the film, Mowalola kept her clues brief. “What will you be at the end of the world?” went her response. Not long after, she lamented the UK’s lockdown in failing to produce any real sense of armageddon. “To be honest, I thought it would be a lot more dramatic. I thought there’d be some chaos, but it’s just really sombre, lonely, and boring.” Mowala on Your Walkman Lockdown’s tedium dominated much of the last few years in London, but for someone with an insatiable capacity for chaotic creativity like Mowalola, our collective mandate to sit still must have been hard, right? Yes and no, it seems. As she told us at the time, lockdown pushed her further into a piecemeal creative approach. In part, this meant idle chilling. Looking back on the fruits of her labour over the past two years, though, it’s clear she got busy. Releasing music under the same moniker as her brand, Mowalola has taken a deep dive into Y2K’s treasure trove of forgotten sounds. Fusing saccharine jingles with a trap twist, her productions are not only polished, they’re also bops. Tracks like “tRuck.mp3.0001” or “Bundles” pull on all our Limewire-ridden memories of R&B hits and the impending doom these struck on the family PC. This nostalgic-futurism also makes itself felt in Mowalola’s imagery, graphics and recent fashion designs, which have been released in drop formats. They chime with that same Pokemon-inflected, Soulja Boy kitsch – a highlight being the Sony Walkman logo rip she introduced. Her sound, somewhere between Lil Uzi Vert, Hannah Diamond and Yung Lean is sleek and the lyrics, sexual. While the songs might not appeal to pearl-clutching folk, they inevitably slap. Ultimately, it’s chaos that informs Mowalola the musician, the artist and, of course, the fashion designer. “We don’t really plan when we shoot, we just turn up, throw the clothes on the floor and make it work in the moment,” says frequent collaborator, photographer Samuel Ibram. “It’s not pre-planned. It’s not storyboarded, and that’s important.” Music, fashion or fine art, chaos reigns in Mowalola’s world. Follow i-D on Instagram and TikTok for more on music and fashion.


--- [Mowalola, Fashion's Subversive Rising Star, Debuts in Paris | BoF] ---
No content


--- [Emerging Designer Mowalola Ogunlesi by Aybuke Barkcin] ---
Dear Shaded Viewers, London Fashion Week may have found its saviour. I first heard of Mowalola when Gap announced its 10-year partnership with Kanye West’s Yeezy. It was confirmed that Mowalola Ogunlesi, the 25 year old Nigerian-British designer would be the Design Director for Yeezy x Gap. Then came the news of Mowalola’s inclusion in GucciFest Emerging Designer Fashion Films… presenting us “Drip City” a short-animated film that takes you on a trippy ride to an alternative world, where meteors hit and aliens merge identities, inspired by video games and simulations of fight matches. A complete escape from reality. “I’m interested in exposure — whether that’s emotional exposure, showing your skin, or becoming fully vulnerable — and the idea of expressing that through the way that you dress,” The strength of Mowalola comes from being completely boundless. Nothing classic, usual or familiar to see in her designs. A powerful expression of the Nigerian and London youth cultures that is acidic, futurist and genderless. Minimalist but loud, with garments exposing as much skin as possible…thong-straps, low-rise leather pants and micro-mini skirts leaving little to the imagination. Her bold colors and patterns mix together as if you are looking through a kaleidoscope. Effortlessly young, careless and fun. After dropping out of Central Saint Martins one year before graduating, Mowalola Ogunlesi held her first show with the support of Fashion East at London Fashion Week 2019. Since then, celebs like Kim Kardashian, Meghan Thee Stallion, Drake, Solange have been spotted wearing her pieces. Last year Naomi Campbell caused controversy when she wore Mowalola’s white halter neck dress which featured a deep red bullet hole wound from her “Coming for Blood” collection. Many interpreted as a way to draw attention on gun violence and Black Lives Matter. The designer went on social media to clarify the meaning of the dress, expressing “This dress is extremely emotional to me – it screams my lived experience as a black person. It shows no matter how well dressed you are or well behaved, we are time after time, seen as a walking target.” Though her brand is only a few years old, Mowalola seems to have hit home run when it comes to understanding the zeitgeist.
