=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Geography of India - Wikipedia]
It extends 900 km (560 mi) with many peaks rising above 1,000 m (3,300 ft). [26] It is triangular in shape, with its apex at Ratnapuri and the two sides being parallel to the Tapti and Narmada rivers. [28]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geography_of_India

[The Peninsular Plateau of India: Plateaus, Hill Ranges & Significance]
Dec 25, 2024 — The eastern part of the Meghalaya Plateau is known as the Mikir Hills (700 m). The Deccan Plateau. Location: It is a triangular-shaped plateau ...
URL: https://www.nextias.com/blog/peninsular-plateau/

[Indian Peninsular Plateau (Deccan Plateau) - UPSC Notes » LotusArise]
It covers a total area of about 16 lakh sq km (India as a whole is 32 lakh sq km). The average height of the plateau is 600-900 m above sea level (varies from region to region).
URL: https://lotusarise.com/indian-peninsular-plateau-upsc/

[Peninsular Plateau of India, Map, Major Divisions, Major Rivers]
Check the Peninsular Plateau of India with its divisions, geological features, major rivers, crops, climate and the states it spans from Deccan to Northeast.
URL: https://vajiramandravi.com/current-affairs/peninsular-plateau/

[Geography of India]
It extends for a distance of 900 km with many of its peaks rising above 1000 m (3,300 feet). It is angular in shape, with its vertex at Ratnapuri and the ...
URL: https://dlab.epfl.ch/wikispeedia/wpcd/wp/g/Geography_of_India.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Geography of India - Wikipedia] ---
India is situated north of the equator between 8°4' north (the mainland) to 37°6' north latitude and 68°7' east to 97°25' east longitude. It is the seventh-largest country in the world, with a total area of 3,287,263 square kilometres (1,269,219 mi2). India measures 3,214 km (1,997 mi) from north to south and 2,933 km (1,822 mi) from east to west. It has a land frontier of 15,200 km (9,445 mi) and a coastline of 7,516.6 km (4,671 mi).
On the south, India projects into and is bounded by the Indian Ocean—in particular, by the Arabian Sea on the west, the Lakshadweep Sea to the southwest, the Bay of Bengal on the east, and the Indian Ocean proper to the south. The Palk Strait and Gulf of Mannar separate India from Sri Lanka to its immediate southeast, and the Maldives are some 125 kilometres (78 mi) to the south of India's Lakshadweep Islands across the Eight Degree Channel. India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands, some 1,200 kilometres (750 mi) southeast of the mainland, share maritime borders with Myanmar, Thailand and Indonesia. The southernmost tip of the Indian mainland (8°4′38″N, 77°31′56″E) is just south of Kanyakumari, while the southernmost point in India is Indira Point on Great Nicobar Island. The northernmost point which is under Indian administration is Indira Col, Siachen Glacier. India's territorial waters extend into the sea to a distance of 12 nautical miles (13.8 mi; 22.2 km) from the coast baseline. India has the 18th largest Exclusive Economic Zone of 2,305,143 km2 (890,021 mi2).
The northern frontiers of India are defined largely by the Himalayan mountain range, where the country borders China, Bhutan, and Nepal. Its western border with Pakistan lies in the Karakoram and Western Himalayan ranges, Punjab Plains, the Thar Desert and the Rann of Kutch salt marshes. In the far northeast, the Chin Hills and Kachin Hills, deeply forested mountainous regions, separate India from Myanmar. On the east, its border with Bangladesh is largely defined by the Khasi Hills and Mizo Hills, and the watershed region of the Indo-Gangetic Plain.
The Ganges is the longest river originating in India. The Ganges–Brahmaputra system occupies most of northern, central, and eastern India, while the Deccan Plateau occupies most of southern India. Kangchenjunga, in the Indian state of Sikkim, is the highest point in India at 8,586 m (28,169 ft) and the world's third highest peak. The climate across India ranges from equatorial in the far south, to alpine and tundra in the upper regions of the Himalayas. Geologically, India lies on the Indian Plate, the northern part of the Indo-Australian Plate.




--- [The Peninsular Plateau of India: Plateaus, Hill Ranges & Significance] ---
Surrounded by the oceans on three sides, the Peninsular Plateau of India, or the Indian Peninsular Plateau stands as one of the most significant and ancient geographical features of India. Extending from the central part of the country down to the southern tip, it holds multifarious significance for India and the whole subcontinent. This article aims to study in detail the Peninsular Plateau of India, including its major features, regional divisions, geomorphology, and significance. About the Peninsular Plateau of India The Peninsular Plateau of India, also known as the Indian Peninsular Plateau, refers to the flat tableland that lies in the southern part of India and is surrounded by the oceans on three sides. It constitutes one of the 5 physiographic divisions of India. Along with being the oldest landmass of India, it also holds the distinction of being the largest physiographic division of India. Features of the Peninsular Plateau of India - Shape: It is roughly triangular. - Its broad base lies at the southern edge of the Indo-Gangetic Plains. From here, it tapers downwards up to Kanyakumari. - Extent: Its northern boundary is an irregular line running from Kutch along the western flank of the Aravalis to areas near Delhi, which then moves roughly parallel to the Yamuna and the Ganga up to the Rajmahal Hills and the Ganga Delta. - Boundaries: It is surrounded by hill ranges on all three sides: - In the north, it is bounded by the Aravali Range, the Vindhya, the Satpura, the Bharmer, and the Rajmahal Hills. - In the west, it is bounded by the Western Ghats. - In the east, it is bounded by the Eastern Ghats. - Area: Peninsular India is the largest physiographic unit of India with an area of 16 lakh sq. km. - The area occupied by the Peninsular Plateau of India equals almost half of the area of the country. - Composition: This old tabular block is made of schists and Archaean genesis. - It is regarded as a stable shield that hasn’t had many structural alterations since it first formed. - Slope: The Peninsular block slopes mostly from west to east. - This is the reason major peninsular rivers (except Narmada and Tapi) flow from west to east and drain into the Bay of Bengal. - Elevation: The average height of the Peninsular Plateau of India is 600–900 meters above the mean sea level. Geomorphology of Peninsular Plateau of India The Peninsular Plateau of India is made up of many smaller plateaus and hill ranges, interspersed with river basins and valleys. Thus, studying the geomorphology of Peninsular India entails studying major plateaus and major hill ranges in the region. The same are explained in detail in the sections that follow. Major Plateaus of Peninsular India The Peninsular Plateau of India or the Indian Peninsular Plateau, as a physiographic unit, consists of several smaller plateaus. The prominent smaller plateaus of Peninsular India are described as follows: The Marwar Upland - Location: It is located to the east of the Aravali Range. - It is for this reason it is also called the Upland of Eastern Rajasthan. - Elevation & Slope: The average elevation of this part of the Indian Peninsular Plateau is 250-500 m, and it slopes eastwards. - Composition: It is made up of Sandstone, Shales, and Limestones of the Vindhyan period. - Rivers: River Banas, a tributary of River Chambal, originates from the Vindhyan Range and then flows through this region. - Topography: It is a region of rolling plateau with rounded hills and forest. - The erosional works of River Banas and its tributaries have played an important role in shaping the topography of this region. The Central Highlands (Madhya Bharat Pathar) - Location: It is located to the east of the Marwar Upland. - Most of it lies in the Chambal River Basin. - Composition: This part of the Peninsular Plateau of India is made up of old rocks and some interspersed rounded hills composed of sandstone. - Rivers: Chambal River flows in a rift valley through this region. - Topography: It is an open rolling plateau. - Ravines or Badlands of River Chambal. The Bundelkhand Upland - Location: It is bounded by the Yamuna River to the north, Madhya Bharat Pathar to the west, Vindhyan Scarplands to the east and southeast, and Malwa Plateau to the south. - Spread: It spreads over the Uttar Pradesh-Madhya Pradesh border and surrounding areas in the two states. - Elevation & Slope: It has an average elevation of 300-600 m above the mean sea level with the plateau sloping down from the Vindhyan Scarp toward the Yamuna River. - Composition: It is an old dissected upland made up of ‘Bundelkhand Gneiss’ comprising Granite and Gneiss. - Rivers: The prominent rivers flowing in the area include the Betwa, Dhasan, and Ken. - Topography: Senile topography is a characteristic of this region of the Indian Peninsular Plateau. - The erosional work of the rivers flowing in this region has made this area undulating (wave-like surface), and hence unfit for cultivation. - Also, the area is marked by a chain of hillocks (small hills) made of Granite and Sandstone. The Malwa Plateau - Location: It is a triangular-shaped plateau. - Its base lies on the Vindhyan Hills in the north and is bounded by the Aravali Range in the west and Bundelkhand in the east. - The plateau constitutes an extension of the Deccan Traps. - Elevation: The general height of the plateau is 600 m in the south which steeps down to 500 m in the north. - Composition: It has been formed by basaltic lava flow, and hence is covered with black soils. - Rivers: It is drained by two drainage systems: - The first one, flowing towards the Arabian Sea includes – The Narmada, the Tapi, and the Mahi. - The other one, flowing towards the Bay of Bengal includes – Chambal, Sindh, Betwa, and Ken. - Topography: The region of the Peninsular Plateau of India comprises rolling surfaces with flat-topped hills dissected by rivers. - The plateau is marked by the Chambal ravines in the north. The Baghelkhand - Location: It lies to the east of the Maikal Range. - It is bounded by the Son River on the north and anticlinal highlands and synclinal valleys made up of sandstones and limestones in the south. - Elevation: The region has a general elevation of 150 m to 1200 m. - Composition: Its western part is made up of limestone and sandstones. Its eastern part, on the other hand, is composed of granite. - Rivers: The central part of the plateau acts as a water divide between the drainage systems of the Son River in the north and the Mahanadi River in the south. - Topography: The region of the Peninsular Plateau of India has uneven relief. - It comprises the scarps of the Vindhyan sandstones between the Ganga Plain and the Narmada-Son Trough. - The general horizontality is a characteristic of the region and shows that this area has not undergone any major disturbance. The Chotanagpur Plateau - Location: It lies to the east of the Baghelkhand Plateau and represents the north-eastern projection of the Peninsular Plateau of India. - Spread: The plateau spreads over the border areas of Jharkhand, northern Chhattisgarh, and the western part of West Bengal. - It lies entirely between the basins of the Ganga and Son Rivers to the north and the Mahanadi River to the south. - Elevation: The average height of the plateau is 700 m above sea level. - Its mid-western portion, having an elevation of about 1100 m, is known as the Pat Lands. - From the Pat Lands, the plateau descends in all directions in a series of steps, particularly towards the east, until it merges gradually with the Lower Ganga Plain. - Composition: The rocks of the plateau are mostly Gondwana, with sections of Deccan lava, gneisses, and Archaean granite. - Rivers: The plateau witnesses a radial drainage pattern with numerous rivers and streams flowing in different directions. - The prominent rivers flowing in the region are – Son, Damodar, Subarnrekha, North Koel, South Koel, and Barakar. - Major Geographical Features: Some of the major geographical features present in this region include: The Hazaribagh Plateau - It lies to the north of the Damodar River. - This plateau comprises isolated hills, such as Parasnath hills. - Though a plateau, it resembles a peneplain due to the large-scale erosion. The Ranchi Plateau - It lies to the south of the Damodar Valley. - The surface of the plateau is rolling with some areas interrupted by monadnocks and conical hills. - The western part of this plateau consists of Pats and Mesas, which refer to high areas capped with laterite. The Rajmahal Hills - It is situated at the northeastern edge of the Chhotanagpur plateau. - It is mainly composed of basaltic lava. The Meghalaya Plateau (Shillong Plateau) - Location: It lies in the northeastern part of the country. - It is bounded by the Brahmaputra Valley in the north, and Surma and Meghna Valleys in the south. - Formation: It is a rectangular block formed by the extension of the Peninsular Plateau of India in the northeastern direction beyond the Rajmahal hills. - During the Himalayan orogeny, due to the force exerted by the north-eastwardly movement of the Indo-Australian Plate, a huge fault, known as Malda Gap or Garo-Rajmahal Gap, was created between the Meghalaya Plateau and the Rajmahal hills, detaching it from the Indian Peninsula. - The Gap was gradually filled up by the depositional activities of the nearby rivers. - Composition: The plateau is largely composed of Archaean or Dharwarian quartzites, shales, and schists. - Topography: It is an imposing plateau with rolling grassland, hills, and river valleys. - Major Geographical Features: Major geographical features present in the region include: The Garo Hills - The western part of the Meghalaya Plateau is known as the Garo Hills (900 m). The Khasi-Jaintia Hills - The central part of the Meghalaya Plateau is known as the Khasi-Jainita Hills (1500 m). The Mikir Hill - The eastern part of the Meghalaya Plateau is known as the Mikir Hills (700 m). The Deccan Plateau - Location: It is a triangular-shaped plateau bordered by the Satpura and Vindhya in the northwest, the Mahadev and Maikal in the north, the Western Ghats in the west, and the Eastern Ghats in the east. - Area: With an area of about 5 lakh sq. km, this plateau constitutes the largest unit of the Indian Peninsular Plateau or the Peninsular Plateau of India. - Elevation & Slope: It has an average elevation of 600 m. - Its general slope is from west to east, which is indicated by the flow of major rivers of the region like the Mahanadi, the Godavari, the Krishna, and the Cauvery. - Sub Plateaus: The Deccan Plateau consists of several smaller plateaus, which have been formed by the dissection of rivers. These are: The Maharashtra Plateau - It lies in Maharashtra and forms the northern part of the Deccan Plateau. - The area resembles a rolling plain because of the weathering activity. - The presence of horizontal lava sheets has led to the formation of Deccan Trap topography. - The entire expanse of this part of the Peninsular Plateau of India is covered by black cotton soil also known as Regur. The Karnataka Plateau (Mysore Plateau) - It lies to the south of the Maharashtra Plateau and forms the southern part of the Deccan Plateau. - The major streams draining this region include the Godavari, Krishna, Kaveri (Cauvery), Tungabhadra, Sharavati, and Bhima. - The topography of the region resembles a rolling country type. - Several rivers that rise from the Western Ghats divide this plateau into two parts: Malnad - Malnad is a word for hill country in Kannada. - Malnad consists of deep valleys with dense forests. Maida - Maidan consists of a rolling plain interspersed with low granite hills. Telangana Plateau - It occupies the region of Telangana. - The region is drained by three river systems – the Godavari, the Krishna, and the Penneru. - This part of the Peninsular Plateau of India is composed of two major physiographic regions, namely, the Ghats and the Peneplains. The Chhattisgarh Plain - It is a saucer-shaped depression drained by the upper stretch of River Mahanadi. - The entire basin is situated between the Hills of Odisha and the Maikala Range. - The basin is laid with nearly horizontal beds of limestone and shales. Major Hill Ranges of Peninsular India The smaller plateaus of the region of the Peninsular Plateau of India are divided from one another by river valleys and hill ranges. The prominent hill ranges of Peninsular India are discussed below: The Aravali Range - Location: It is a residual mountain running in a northeast-to-southwest direction for about 800 km between Delhi and Palanpur in Gujarat. - Its northeastern end is marked by the Delhi Ridge. - Formation: The Aravalis are remnants of one of the oldest fold mountains in the world. - Elevation: The general elevation of this mountain range is only 400 – 600 m. - Prominent Peaks: Mount Abu (1158 m), Guru Shikhar (1722 m – the highest peak of the Aravalis), etc. The Vindhyan Range - Location: It lies to the south of the Malwa Plateau and runs parallel to the Narmada Valley in the east-west direction - It stretches for a distance of over 1200 km from Jobat in Gujarat to Sasaram in Bihar. - This range, lying in the region of the Peninsular Plateau of India, forms the northern border of the Deccan and serves as the watershed between the Ganga and South Indian River systems. - Formation: They are considered a Block Mountain as they have been formed through cracks in the Earth’s crust. - Elevation: The general elevation of this range is 300-650 m. - Composition: It comprises horizontally bedded ancient sedimentary rocks with its western part covered with lava. - Rivers: The area is drained by several rivers, including the Betwa, Ken, and Chambal. - Ranges: These mountains continue eastward into two branches: The Kaimur Range - It is the northern branch that runs north of the Son River upto western Bihar. The Bharner Hills - It is the southern branch, running between the upper reaches of the Son and Narmada rivers to meet the Satpura Range. The Satpura Range - About: It is a series of seven Block Mountains, thus justifying its name Satpura - In Sanskrit, ‘Sat’ means seven, and ‘Pura’ means mountains). - Location: It lies in the region of the Peninsular Plateau of India and is located to the south of the Vindhyan Range and stretches in an east-west direction between the Narmada and the Tapi. - It starts from the Rajpipla Hills in the west and continues for a distance of around 900 km through the Mahadev Hills to the Maikala Range. - Rivers: The Satpura Range is drained by many rivers, including the Narmada, Wainganga, Wardha and Tapi. - Important Peaks: Dhupgarh (1350 m) near Pachmarhi on Mahadev hills is the highest peak. - The other peaks are Astamba Dongar (1325 m) and Amarkantak (1127 m). The Western Ghats (or the Sahyadris) - About: The Western Ghats, also known as the Sahyadris, refer to the mountain range that runs parallel to the western coast of the Peninsular Plateau of India. - Location: To the east of this mountain range lies the Deccan plateau and to the west lies the Coastal Plains and the Arabian Sea. - North-South Extent: It runs parallel to and near the coast of the Arabian Sea, from the Tapi Valley to a point north of Kanyakumari. - It spreads over the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu as well as two UTs namely Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Puducherry (Mahe). - Topography: They are characterized by steep-sided, terraced, flat-topped hills or cliffs, presenting a mesa-like stepped topography. - Slope: On the western side, the Western Ghats rise abruptly from the Western Coastal Plain. However, on the eastern side, they slope gently. - Divisions: The Western Ghats can be divided into three sections – the Northern Section, Middle Sahyadris, and Southern Section. The Northern Western Ghats (The Northern Sahyadri) - Location: This section of the Western Ghats is located between the Tapi Valley to a little north of Goa. - Composition: It is composed of horizontal sheets of Deccan lavas forming an imposing wall along the western coastal plains. - Important Peaks: Kalsubai (1646 m), Salher (1,567 m), Mahabaleshwar (1438 m) and Harishchandragarh (1424 m). - Important Passes: Thalghat and Bhorghat. - They provide passage between the Western Coastal Plain and the Deccan Plateau The Central Western Ghats (The Central Sahyadri) - Location: This section of the Western Ghats runs from 16°N latitude up to the Nilgiri Hills. - Composition: This part is made up of granites and gneisses. - Important Peaks: Doddabetta (2637 m), Makurti (2554 m), Vavul Mala (2,339 m), the Kudremukh (1892 m) and Pushpagiri (1714 m). The Southern Western Ghats (The Southern Sahyadris) - Location: This section forms the southernmost division of the Western Ghats. - The southern part of the Western Ghats is separated from the main Sahyadri Range by a mountain pass called the Palghat Gap. - Important Peaks: Anai Mudi (2,695 m) is the highest peak in the peninsular plateau region as well as the whole of southern India. - Important Hills: Prominent hills lying in this section are discussed as follows. - From the Anai Mudi Peak, three ranges radiate in different directions: The Anaimalai Hills The Anaimalai Hills (1800-2000 m) run from the Anai Mudi Peak towards the north The Palni Hills The Palni Hills (900-1200 m) run from the Anai Mudi Peak towards the northeast The Cardamom Hills The Cardamon Hills (1000-1500 m), also known as the Ealaimalai Hills, run from the Anai Mudi Peak towards the south - Other hills located in this section are Agasthyamalai Hills - Agasthyamali Hills (1,868 m), well known for its endemic components, is situated at the southern end of Western Ghats. The Eastern Ghats - About: The Eastern Ghats refers to a series of discontinuous ranges of mountains that border the eastern edge of the Indian Peninsular Plateau, and run almost parallel to the east coast of India. - Location: To the west of this mountain range lies the Deccan Plateau and to the east lies the Coastal Plains and the Bay of Bengal. - North-South Extent: They stretch from the Mahanadi in Odisha to the Vagai in Tamil Nadu. - Topography: Unlike the Western Ghats, the Eastern Ghats are not a continuous range. They comprise a chain of highly broken and detached hills. - Divisions: The Eastern Ghats can be divided into two sections: The Northern Eastern Ghats - Location: This section of the Eastern Ghats lies between the Mahanadi and the Godavari Valley. - Important Hills: Some of the important hill ranges lying in this part are: Maliya Range Mahendra Giri (1501 m) is the tallest peak in this range. Madugula Range Some important peaks in this range are – Arma Konda (1680 m), Gali Konda (1643 m), Sinkram Gutta (1,620 m), etc. The Southern Eastern Ghats - Location: This section of the Eastern Ghats lies between the Godavari and the Krishna rivers. - Important Hills: Some of the important hill ranges in this part include: The Nallamalai Range The southern part of the Nallamalai Range is called the Palkonda Range. Javadi Hills These hills are located in northern Tamil Nadu. Shevroy-Kalrayan Hills These hills are also located in Tamil Nadu. Biligiri Rangan Hills These hills are situated at the border of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. - At its southern extremities, the Eastern Ghats merge with the Western Ghats. Significance of the Peninsular Plateau of India As the oldest and the most stable landmass of the Indian subcontinent, the Peninsular Plateau of India carries many significances: - Mineral resources: The plateau is blessed with large quantities of mineral resources like Iron, Copper, Manganese, Bauxite, Chromium, Mica, Gold, etc. - Coal deposits: The region contains 98 percent of the Gondwana coal deposits in the country. - Agriculture: The region is covered with black soil which is found suitable for the production of several crops such as cotton, tea, coffee, rubber, millet, etc. - Forest produce: Being replete with forest these areas are an abundant source of forest produce like timber, etc. - Rivers: The rivers in these areas offer great opportunities for the generation of hydroelectricity and provide irrigation facilities for crops. - Tourism: The place has numerous places of scenic beauty such as Ooty, Pachmarhi, Kodaikanal, Mahabaleshwar, Mount Abu, etc. Much more than just a geographical feature, the Peninsular Plateau of India carries multiple significance. This largest physiographic division of India is a source of multiple resources. Of late, it faces several challenges, including deforestation, soil degradation, and loss of biodiversity. Understanding and preserving this unique landform is crucial for ensuring the ecological balance and sustainable development of the region. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the Peninsular Plateau of India What is the Peninsular Plateau? The Peninsular Plateau of India is a flat tableland lying in the southern part of India and is surrounded by oceans on three sides. It is also known as the Indian Peninsular Plateau. Where is the Peninsular Plateau located? The Peninsular Plateau of India is located in the southern part of the country. Which is the oldest plateau in India? The Deccan Plateau is considered to be the oldest plateau in India. It forms a part of the Peninsular Plateau of India, which, in itself, is considered to be the oldest landmass in India. Name the major physical divisions of India. India’s major physical divisions include the Northern Mountains, the Northern Plains, the Peninsular Plateau, the Indian Desert, the Coastal Plains, and the Islands. Mention the names of the two important plateaus in India. The two important plateaus in India are the Deccan Plateau and the Chota Nagpur Plateau. Which plateau is located to the south of the Great Plains of India? The Peninsular Plateau is located to the south of the Great Plains of India. What is Peninsular Plateau? The Peninsular Plateau is a triangular-shaped landmass in India, also known as the oldest landmass of the country, consisting of flat-topped hills, valleys, and extensive plains. How was the Peninsular Plateau formed? The Peninsular Plateau was formed as a result of the drifting of the Gondwana landmass and is considered one of the most stable geological regions in India. Mention the important historical places located in the Peninsular Plateau. Some important historical places in the Peninsular Plateau include Hampi, Badami, Aihole, Ellora Caves, Ajanta Caves, and Khajuraho. What is the other name of the Peninsular Plateau? The Peninsular Plateau is also known as the “Deccan Plateau.” Which is the oldest landmass of India? The Peninsular Plateau, also known as the Deccan Plateau, is the oldest landmass of India.


--- [Indian Peninsular Plateau (Deccan Plateau) - UPSC Notes » LotusArise] ---
Plateau is an area of raised land that is flat on top. Plateaus are often by themselves with no surrounding plateau. National Geographic describes plateaus as flat and elevated landform that rises sharply above the surrounding area on at least one side. Features of the Peninsular Plateau - Roughly triangular in shape with its base coinciding with the southern edge of the great plain of North India. The apex of the triangular plateau is at Kanniyakumari. - It covers a total area of about 16 lakh sq km (India as a whole is 32 lakh sq km). - The average height of the plateau is 600-900 m above sea level (varies from region to region). - Most of the peninsular rivers flow west to east indicating it’s the general slope. - Narmada-Tapti is the exception that flows from east to west in a rift (rift is caused by a divergent boundary (Go back to Interaction of plates). - The Peninsular Plateau is one of the oldest landforms of earth. - It is a highly stable block composed mostly of the Archaean gneisses and schists. - It has been a stable shield that has gone through little structural changes since its formation. - Since a few hundred million years, the Peninsular block has been a land area and has never been submerged beneath the sea except in a few places. - Peninsular Plateau is an aggregation of several smaller plateaus, hill ranges interspersed with river basins and valleys. Minor Plateaus in the Peninsular Plateau Marwar Plateau or Mewar Plateau - It is the plateau of eastern Rajasthan. [Marwar plain is to the west of Aravalis whereas Marwar plateau is to the east]. - The average elevation is 250-500 m above sea level and it slopes down eastwards. - It is made up of sandstone, shales, and limestones of the Vindhayan period. - The Banas River, along with its tributaries [Berach river, Khari rivers] originate in the Aravali Range and flow towards northwest into the Chambal river. The erosional activity of these rives makes the plateau top appear like a rolling plain. - Rolling Plain: ‘Rolling plains’ are not completely flat: there are slight rises and falls in the landform. Ex: Prairies of USA Central Highland - Also called the Madhya Bharat Pathar or Madhya Bharat Plateau. - It is to the east of the Marwar or Mewar Upland. - Most of the plateau comprises the basin of the Chambal river which flows in a rift valley. - The Kali Sindh, flowing from Rana Pratap Sagar, The Banas flowing through Mewar plateau, and The Parwan and the Parbati flowing from Madhya Pradesh are its main tributaries. - It is a rolling plateau with rounded hills composed of sandstone. Thick forests grow here. - To the north are the ravines or badlands of the Chambal river [They are typical to Chambal river basin]. Bundelkhand Upland - Yamuna river to the north, Madhya Bharat Pathar to the west, Vindhyan Scarplands to the east and south-east, and Malwa Plateau to the south. - It is the old dissected (divided by a number of deep valleys) upland of the ‘Bundelkhand gneiss’ comprising of granite and gneiss. - Spreads over five districts of Uttar Pradesh and four districts of Madhya Pradesh. - An average elevation of 300-600 m above sea level, this area slopes down from the Vindhyan Scarp toward the Yamuna River. - The area is marked by a chain of hillocks (small hill) made of granite and sandstone. - The erosional work of the rivers flowing here have converted it into an undulating (wave-like surface) area and rendered it unfit for cultivation. - The region is characterized by senile (characteristic of or caused by old age) topography. - Streams like Betwa, Dhasan, and Ken flow through the plateau. Malwa Plateau - The Malwa Plateau roughly forms a triangle based on the Vindhyan Hills, bounded by the Aravali Range in the west and Madhya Bharat Pathar to the north, and Bundelkhand to the east. - This plateau has two systems of drainage; one towards the Arabian sea (The Narmada, the Tapi, and the Mahi), and the other towards the Bay of Bengal (Chambal and Betwa, joining the Yamuna). - In the north, it is drained by the Chambal and many of its right bank tributaries like the Kali, the Sindh, and the Parbati. It also includes the upper courses of the Sindh, the Ken, and the Betwa. - It is composed of the extensive lava flow and is covered with black soils. - The general slope is towards the north [decreases from 600 m in the south to less than 500 m in the north] - This is a rolling plateau dissected by rivers. In the north, the plateau is marked by the Chambal ravines. Baghelkhand - North of the Maikal Range is the Baghelkhand. - Made of limestones and sandstones on the west and granite in the east. - It is bounded by the Son river on the north. - The central part of the plateau acts as a water divide between the Son drainage system in the north and the Mahanadi river system in the south. - The region is uneven with general elevation varying from 150 m to 1,200 m. - The Bharner and Kaimur are located close to the trough-axis. - The general horizontality of the strata shows that this area has not undergone any major disturbance. Rohtas Plateau - The Rohtas Plateau (also referred to as Kaimur Plateau) is a plateau that lies in the south-western part of Bihar. - The Rohtas Plateau or Kaimur Plateau comprises about 800 square miles (2,100 km2). It is an undulating table land. At Rohtasgarh it attains a height of 1,490 feet (450 m) above sea level. - Surrounding geography: A series of fluvial plateaux that run along the Kaimur Range consist of a series of descending plateaux, starting with the Panna Plateau in the west, followed by Bhander Plateau and Rewa Plateau and ending with Rohtas plateau in the east. Bhander Plateau - The Bhander Plateau is a plateau in the state of Madhya Pradesh in India. It has an area of 10,000 square kilometres. - It links the Deccan Plateau to the south with the Indo-Gangetic Plains and the Chota Nagpur Plateau to the north and east respectively. - The plateau is part of the Vindhya Range in central India. - A series of plateaux runs along the Kaimur Range. These fluvial plateaux consist of a series of descending plateaux, starting with the Panna Plateau in the west, followed by Bhander Plateau and Rewa Plateau, and ending with Rohtas Plateau in the east. Chotanagpur Plateau - Chotanagpur plateau represents the north-eastern projection of the Indian Peninsula. - Mostly in Jharkhand, the northern part of Chhatisgarh and Purulia district of West Bengal. - The Son River flows in the north-west of the plateau and joins the Ganga. - The average elevation of the plateau is 700 m above sea level. - This plateau is composed mainly of Gondwana rocks. - The plateau is drained by numerous rivers and streams in different directions and presents a radial drainage pattern. {Drainage Pattern} - Rivers like the Damodar, the Subarnrekaha, the North Koel, the South Koel, and the Barkar have developed extensive drainage basins. - The Damodar River flows through the middle of this region in a rift valley from west to east. Here are found the Gondwana coal fields which provide the bulk of coal in India. - North of the Damodar river is the Hazaribagh plateau with an average elevation of 600 m above mean sea level. This plateau has isolated hills. It looks like a peneplain due to large scale erosion. - The Ranchi Plateau to the south of the Damodar Valley rises to about 600 m above mean sea level. Most of the surface is rolling where the city of Ranchi (661 m) is located. - At places, it is interrupted by monadnocks (an isolated hill or ridge of erosion-resistant rock rising above a peneplain. Ex: Ayers Rock in Australia) and conical hills. - The Rajmahal Hills forming the northeastern edge of the Chotanagpur Plateau are mostly made of basalt and are covered by lava flows {Basaltic Lava}. - They run in the north-south direction and rise to an average elevation of 400 m (the highest mount is 567 m). These hills have been dissected into separate plateaus. Meghalaya Plateau - The peninsular plateau extends further east beyond the Rajmahal hills to from Meghalaya or the Shillong plateau. - Garo-Rajmahal Gap separates this plateau from the main block. - This gap was formed by down-faulting (normal fault: a block of earth slides downwards). It was later filled by sediments deposited by the Ganga and Brahmaputra. - Down warping along Rajmahal–Garo hills = ‘Malda gap’ - Ganga-Brahmaputra flow through the Malda gap. - The plateau is formed by Archaean quartzites, shales, and schists. - The plateau slopes down to Brahmaputra valley in the north and the Surma and Meghna valleys in the south. - Its western boundary more or less coincides with the Bangladesh border. - The western, central, and eastern parts of the plateau are known as the Garo Hills (900 m), the Khasi-Jaintia Hills (1,500 m), and the Mikir Hills (700 m). - Shillong (1,961 m) is the highest point of the plateau. Deccan Plateau - It covers an area of about five lakh sq km. - It is triangular in shape and is bounded by the Satpura and the Vindhya in the north-west, the Mahadev and the Maikal in the north, the Western Ghats in the west, and the Eastern Ghats in the east. - Its average elevation is 600 m. - It rises to 1000 m in the south but dips to 500 m in the north. - Its general slope is from west to east which is indicated by the flow of its major rivers. - Rivers have further subdivided this plateau into a number of smaller plateaus. Maharashtra Plateau - The Maharashtra Plateau lies in Maharashtra. - It forms the northern part of the Deccan Plateau. - Much of the region is underlain by basaltic rocks of lava origin [Most of the Deccan Traps lies in this region]. - The area looks like a rolling plain due to weathering. - The horizontal lava sheets have led to the formation of typical Deccan Trap topography [step like]. - The broad and shallow valleys of the Godavari, the Bhima, and the Krishna are flanked [bordered on the opposite sides] by flat-topped steep-sided hills and ridges. - The entire area is covered by black cotton soil known as regur. Karnataka Plateau - The Karnataka Plateau is also known as the Mysore plateau. - Lies to the south of the Maharashtra plateau. - The area looks like a rolling plateau with an average elevation of 600-900 m. - It is highly dissected by numerous rivers rising from the Western Ghats. - The general trend of the hills is either parallel to the Western Ghats or across it. - The highest peak (1913 m) is at Mulangiri in Baba Budan Hills in the Chikmaglur district. - The plateau is divided into two parts called Malnad and Maidan. - The Malnad in Kannada means the hill country. It is dissected into deep valleys covered with dense forests. - The Maidan on the other hand is formed of a rolling plain with low granite hills. - The plateau tapers between the Western Ghats and the Eastern Ghats in the south and merges with the Niligiri hills there. Telangana plateau - The Telangana plateau consists of Archaean gneisses. - It is made up of Dharwar rocks. Gondwana rocks are also found in the Godavari valley, famous for its coal fields. - Because of the Dharwar rock strata, the plateau is rich in mineral resources. - Its average elevation is 500-600 m. - The southern part is higher than its northern counterpart. - The region is drained by three river systems, the Godavari, the Krishna, and the Penner. - The entire plateau is divided into Ghats and the Peneplains (a vast featureless, undulating plain which the last stage of the deposition process). Bastar Plateau - Bastar is a district in the southernmost region in the state of Chhattisgarh. - It is a forested mineral rich region. - Southern part of Chhattisgarh between the Mahanadi and Godavari rivers. - Bisected into two parts by the Indravati River. - Tribal dominated region. - Under the strong grip of Naxalism. Chhattisgarh Plain - The Chhattisgarh plain is the only plain worth the name in the Peninsular plateau. - It is a saucer-shaped depression drained by the upper Mahanadi. - The whole basin lies between the Maikala Range and the Odisha hills. - The region was once ruled by Haithaivanshi Rajputs from whose thirty-six forts (Chhattisgarh) it derives its name. - The basin is laid with nearly horizontal beds of limestone and shales. - The general elevation of the plain ranges from 250 m in the east to 330 m in the west. Dandakaranya Plateau - Dandakaranya is a historical region in India, mentioned in Ramayana. It is located in the Bastar region of the present-day state of Chhattisgarh in the central part of India. - Dandakaranya is a physiographic region in the central part of India. Extending over a neighborhood of about 35600 square miles, it includes the Abujhmad Hills within the west and borders the Eastern Ghats within the east. - Abujmarh is a hilly forest area in Chhattisgarh, covering Narayanpur district, Bijapur district, and Dantewada district. It is home to indigenous tribes of India, including Gond, Muria, Abuj Maria, and Halbaas. - The Dandakaranya includes parts of the Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana, and Andhra Pradesh states. It’s a dimension of about 200 miles from north to south and about 300 miles from east to west.


--- [Peninsular Plateau of India, Map, Major Divisions, Major Rivers] ---
The Peninsular Plateau of India, also known as the Indian Shield, is one of the oldest and most stable landmasses on Earth. It forms the core of the Indian subcontinent and dominates the geographical landscape of central and southern India. Its geological antiquity, mineral wealth, diverse physiographic divisions, and ecological significance make it an essential topic for UPSC Prelims, Mains, and optional Geography. The plateau has shaped India’s river systems, agriculture, settlement patterns, industrial development, and biodiversity over millions of years. Peninsular Plateau of India Features The Peninsular Plateau stands out due to its unique terrain, geological stability, and mineral-rich composition. - The plateau covers nearly 16 lakh sq km, representing almost 50% of India’s total landmass. - It is composed primarily of crystalline, igneous, and metamorphic rocks, dating back to the Archean and Proterozoic ages (over 2.5 billion years old). - The plateau is roughly triangular in shape, drained by both east-flowing and west-flowing rivers, creating deep valleys, escarpments, and basins. - The Peninsular Plateau is bounded by the Aravalli Range, Vindhya, Satpura, Barmer, and Rajmahal Hills in the north; the Western Ghats in the west; and the Eastern Ghats in the east. - It consists of numerous plateaus, uplands, hill ranges, forest belts, and fertile valleys formed by tectonic movements and prolonged erosion. - The region is rich in minerals such as iron ore, coal, manganese, bauxite, gold, mica, making it India’s “mineral heartland.” Geological Formation of the Peninsular Plateau The geological evolution of the Peninsular Plateau is linked to tectonic activity, volcanic events, and the breakup of ancient continents. - Part of the Gondwana supercontinent, the plateau separated due to continental drift about 135 million years ago. - The foundation of the plateau is formed by some of the world’s oldest rocks, comparable to those found in Western Australia and South Africa. - Large igneous eruptions known as Deccan Trap volcanic events (around 60-68 million years ago) formed extensive basaltic layers, especially in Maharashtra. - Lineaments, faults, and rift valleys such as the Narmada-Son Lineament and Narmada-Tapti Rift Valley are prominent tectonic features. - Weathering, denudation, and fluvial erosion have shaped its current topography over millions of years. Major Divisions of Peninsular Plateau of India The Peninsular Plateau is divided into several physiographic units, each with distinct geological structure, river systems, soil types, ecology, and agricultural patterns. Below are the Major Divisions of the Peninsular Plateau of India Marwar Upland The Marwar Upland lies in the northwestern part of the Peninsular Plateau and forms a transitional zone between the Thar Desert and the Aravalli Range. It is characterized by semi-arid climate, rocky terrain, and ancient residual hills. Location: Western Rajasthan, mainly Jodhpur, Pali, Nagaur, Barmer regions. Topography: - Rocky uplands, pediments, and residual hills. - Elevation ranges between 250-500 m. Rivers: - Seasonal rivers such as Luni, Sukri, and Bandi. Geological Composition: - Predominantly Aravalli schists, gneisses, quartzite, and granite. Flora & Fauna: - Xerophytic vegetation – Khejri, Acacia, Ber, thorn scrub. - Wildlife: Chinkara, Desert fox, Blackbuck. Major Crops: - Bajra, Jowar, Pulses, Mustard, and limited wheat in irrigated areas. States Covered: Rajasthan. Central Highlands The Central Highlands form the northern segment of the Peninsular Plateau, extending from the Aravallis to the eastern part of Madhya Pradesh. They include important plateaus and river basins. Location: Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, parts of Uttar Pradesh. Topography: - Elevation 300-600 m, dissected plateaus. - Slopes eastward towards the Gangetic plains. Rivers: - Chambal, Banas, Sind, Betwa, Ken. Geological Composition: - Granite-gneiss, Vindhyan sedimentary rocks (sandstone, shale, limestone). Flora & Fauna: - Dry deciduous forest – Teak, Salai, Palash. - Fauna: Leopard, Nilgai, Sloth bear. Major Crops: - Wheat, Soybean, Mustard, Pulses, Cotton (western part). States Covered: Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh. Bundelkhand Upland Bundelkhand Upland is a rugged region between the Yamuna and Narmada river systems known for granite outcrops, uneven terrain, and low water availability. Location: Southern Uttar Pradesh & Northern Madhya Pradesh (Jhansi, Banda, Chhatarpur). Topography: - Highly eroded upland, rocky plateau, inselbergs. - Average elevation 300-400 m. Rivers: - Betwa, Dhasan, Ken, Sonar. Geological Composition: - Ancient Bundelkhand granites, gneisses, quartzite. Flora & Fauna: - Thorn & dry deciduous vegetation. - Wildlife includes Nilgai, Wild Boar, Indian Wolf. Major Crops: - Gram, Wheat, Bajra, Urad, limited paddy. States Covered: Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh. Malwa Plateau The Malwa Plateau is a fertile volcanic region with black soil, forming an important agricultural zone in central India. Location: Western Madhya Pradesh & southeastern Rajasthan. Topography: - Flat to gently undulating plateau, elevation 500-600 m. - Northern boundary marked by Chambal ravines. Rivers: - Western Drainage (towards the Arabian Sea): Includes Narmada, Tapi, and Mahi, which flow westward and drain into the Arabian Sea. - Eastern Drainage (towards the Bay of Bengal): Includes Chambal and Betwa, which flow northeast and join the Yamuna, ultimately draining into the Bay of Bengal. Geological Composition: - Basaltic lava flows from Deccan volcanism, which formed Black cotton soil. Flora & Fauna: - Dry deciduous forest – Teak, Butea, Neem. - Fauna: Chital, Indian fox, Hyena. Major Crops: - Soybean (largest producer), Wheat, Cotton, Sugarcane, Maize. States Covered: Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and some parts of Gujarat Baghelkhand Plateau The Baghelkhand Plateau lies in eastern Madhya Pradesh and is known for rugged topography, dense forest cover, and important mineral reserves. Location: Eastern Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh & northern Chhattisgarh. Topography: - Dissected plateau, steep escarpments, elevation 300-600 m. Rivers: - Son, and Mahanadi Geological Composition: - Vindhyan & Gondwana sediments, sandstone, limestone, shales. Flora & Fauna: - Moist deciduous forests – Sal, Bamboo. - Animals: Tiger, Leopard, Sambar, Indian Bison. Major Crops: - Paddy, Wheat, Pulses, minor millets. States Covered: Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Praedesh, Chhattisgarh. Chotanagpur Plateau The Chotanagpur Plateau is India’s mineral heartland, rich in coal, iron ore, mica, bauxite, and copper. It supports major industrial belts. Location: Jharkhand, northern Odisha, eastern Chhattisgarh, West Bengal border. Topography: - Uplands, valleys, and highest peak Parasnath (1365 m). - Ranchi, Hazaribagh, Palamu uplands. Rivers: - Damodar, Subarnarekha, Koel, Sankh. Geological Composition: - Archaean granites and Gondwana coalfields. Flora & Fauna: - Tropical dry & moist deciduous – Sal, Bamboo, Mahua. - Fauna: Elephant, Leopard, Sloth Bear. Major Crops: - Paddy, Maize, Oilseeds, Pulses. States Covered: Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal. Meghalaya Plateau The Meghalaya Plateau is a detached fragment of the Peninsular block, famous for heavy rainfall, limestone caves, and biodiversity. Location: Meghalaya (Khasi, Garo, Jaintia Hills). Topography: - High hills (avg. 1200-1500 m), deep valleys. - Receives highest rainfall at Mawsynram & Cherrapunji. Rivers: - Umngot, Myntdu, Simsang, seasonal streams. Geological Composition: - Gneiss, schist, sandstone, limestone, rich cave systems. Flora & Fauna: - Evergreen forests – Orchids, Pine, Bamboo. - Fauna: Hoolock gibbon, Clouded leopard, Elephants. Major Crops: - Jhum crops, Potatoes, Turmeric, Oranges, spices. States Covered: Meghalaya. Deccan Plateau The Deccan Plateau is the largest and most prominent part of the Peninsular Plateau, covering almost the entire southern part of India. It is a volcanic plateau formed primarily during the Cretaceous period due to massive basaltic lava flows, commonly known as the Deccan Traps. Location - Bounded by the Western Ghats on the west, Eastern Ghats on the east, and the Satpura and Vindhya ranges in the north. Topography - Average elevation ranges from 500 to 1000 meters above sea level. - Broad, gently sloping plateau surface, mostly towards the east. - Western Ghats form a steep escarpment with narrow coastal plains; Eastern Ghats are discontinuous and eroded. - Contains hill ranges like Balaghat, Nilgiri, Anaimalai, and Cardamom Hills. Geological Composition - Dominated by basaltic lava flows of the Deccan Traps. - Some areas with granite, gneiss, schist, and laterite formations. - Rich in minerals: iron ore, manganese, bauxite, and limestone. Rivers and Drainage - East-flowing rivers: Godavari, Krishna, Kaveri, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Pennar (drain into Bay of Bengal). - West-flowing rivers: Some short rivers along Western Ghats, e.g., Mandovi, Sharavathi (drain into Arabian Sea). - Provides hydropower potential at dams like Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar, and Tungabhadra. Soil and Agriculture - Black soil (Regur): Ideal for cotton cultivation. - Red and laterite soils: Support millets, pulses, oilseeds. - Alluvial soils along river valleys: Rice and sugarcane. - Major crops: Cotton, Jowar, Ragi, Groundnut, Sugarcane, Paddy, Millets. - Horticulture: Coffee, Rubber, Spices (especially in Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu). Flora and Fauna - Dry and moist deciduous forests in plateau areas. - Western Ghats: Biodiversity hotspot with tropical evergreen forests. - Wildlife includes Tiger, Leopard, Gaur, Elephant, Nilgiri Tahr, Sloth Bear. Economic Significance - Agriculture: Major cotton, sugarcane, and food grain-producing region. - Minerals: Iron ore (Karnataka, Goa), Manganese (Maharashtra, Karnataka), Bauxite (Karnataka, Odisha). States Covered: Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Chhattisgarh Major Hillls of Peninsular Plateau of India The Peninsular Plateau of India consists of several ancient hill ranges that influence river systems, climate, and biodiversity. These hills include both continuous ranges like the Western Ghats and discontinuous ranges like the Eastern Ghats, along with isolated highlands across central and southern India. | Major Hillls of Peninsular Plateau of India | ||| | Hill Range | Location / States | Highest Peak | Significance | | Aravalli Hills | Rajasthan, Delhi | Guru Shikhar (1,722 m) | Oldest fold mountains; influence desert ecology | | Vindhya Range | Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan | 1,100 m | Natural divide between north & south India | | Satpura Range | Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh | Dhupgarh (1,350 m) | Source of Narmada river; rich forests | | Western Ghats | Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu | Anamudi (2,695 m) | UNESCO Heritage Site; biodiversity hotspot | | Eastern Ghats | Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka | Jindhagada or Arma Konda (1,690 m, Araku Valley) | Discontinuous hills; many rivers originate | | Nilgiri Hills | Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka | Doddabetta (2,637 m) | Hill station & tourism; rich flora & fauna | | Anaimalai Hills | Tamil Nadu, Kerala | Anamudi (2,695 m) | Coffee plantations; wildlife habitats | | Cardamom Hills | Kerala | South Cardamom (1,670 m) | Spices cultivation; tropical forests | | Meghalaya Hills | Meghalaya (Khasi, Garo, Jaintia Hills) | Shillong Peak (1,965 m) | Wettest region; unique biodiversity | Mineral Resources of the Peninsular Plateau The Peninsular Plateau is rich in metallic, non-metallic, and fuel minerals due to its ancient geological formations like Archaean rocks, Deccan Traps, and Gondwana sediments. These minerals are crucial for India’s industrial growth, energy production, and infrastructure development. - Chotanagpur Plateau: Coal, iron, mica, copper. - Malwa & Bundelkhand Plateaus: Limestone, bauxite, some iron ore. - Karnataka Plateau: Gold, manganese, bauxite, granite. | Mineral Resources of the Peninsular Plateau | | | Mineral | Major Producing States | | Iron Ore | Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Goa | | Manganese | Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka | | Copper | Jharkhand (Singhbhum), Rajasthan (Khetri) | | Bauxite | Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand, Gujarat | | Limestone | Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh | | Coal | Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh | | Gold | Karnataka (Kolar, Hutti) | | Mica | Jharkhand, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh | | Graphite | Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu | | Granite & Marble | Rajasthan, Karnataka | | Diamond | Madhya Pradesh (Panna) | | Gemstones | Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka | Economic Significance of the Peninsular Plateau - Fertile soils like black cotton soil and alluvial soils support cotton, wheat, rice, sugarcane, millets, and oilseeds. - Rivers of the plateau provide irrigation through dams and canals, supporting agriculture. - Rich in iron, manganese, bauxite, copper, coal, mica, limestone, and gold, making it a mineral hub. - Mineral resources have led to the growth of steel plants, cement factories, and mining-based industries. - Plateau forests provide timber, medicinal plants, and other forest products. - Western and Eastern Ghats host biodiversity hotspots, contributing to eco-tourism and research. - Rivers are suitable for hydroelectric power projects, e.g., Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar. - Coal deposits in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha support thermal power plants. - Hill stations, rivers, waterfalls, and scenic plateaus attract tourism. Environmental Issues and Challenges - Deforestation – India’s forest cover on the plateau is around 21-23%, lower than the national average in some states. Western Ghats and Chotanagpur forests have lost 10-15% of original forest cover in the past two decades due to logging, mining, and urban expansion. - Soil Erosion – Over 35% of Bundelkhand and Malwa plateau areas are prone to soil erosion due to overgrazing, deforestation, and unsustainable farming. - Water Scarcity – Western plateau regions like Marwar and parts of Telangana receive less than 500-800 mm annual rainfall, leading to recurrent droughts and low groundwater levels. - Mining Impacts – Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh account for over 40% of India’s coal production, causing land degradation, deforestation, and siltation in rivers like Damodar. - Biodiversity Loss – Western Ghats are a UNESCO World Heritage site, yet nearly 150 species are critically endangered, including the lion-tailed macaque and Malabar civet. - Air and Water Pollution – Industrial regions in Odisha, Jharkhand, and Chhattisgarh contribute to high levels of suspended particulate matter, and heavy metal contamination in rivers like Brahmani and Mahanadi. - Climate Change Effects – Plateau areas have recorded temperature rise of 0.6-0.8°C over the last 50 years, impacting agriculture (e.g., reduced yields of millets, pulses) and increasing drought frequency. - Invasive Species – Plants like Lantana camara have invaded over 20% of degraded forest areas in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, affecting local flora. - Landslides and Flooding – Western Ghats and Meghalaya Hills receive annual rainfall exceeding 2,500-11,000 mm, causing frequent landslides and flash floods during monsoon season. Way Forward - Afforestation and Forest Management: Increase forest cover in degraded areas; India’s forest cover is 21.7%, lower than the ideal 33%, e.g., Western Ghats restoration projects. - Soil and Water Conservation: Adopt watershed management and rainwater harvesting; Bundelkhand has implemented Jaiv Krishi practices to reduce erosion. - Sustainable Mining Practices: Enforce eco-friendly mining and land reclamation, e.g., coal mining in Jharkhand and Odisha is being regulated under the Mine Environment & Safety Act. - Biodiversity Protection: Strengthen protected areas; the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve conserves endemic species like lion-tailed macaque and Malabar civet. - Climate Change Adaptation: Promote drought-resistant crops and water-efficient irrigation, e.g., Telangana’s micro-irrigation schemes reduce water stress during erratic monsoons. - Pollution Control Measures: Implement industrial emission and effluent regulations; e.g., Odisha’s steel belt now follows stricter CPCB standards. Peninsular Plateau Major Divisions The Peninsular Plateau can be divided into three major divisions: - Deccan Plateau - The boundaries of Deccan Plateau are- Western Ghats in the west, Eastern Ghats in the East - Satpura, Maikal Range and Mahadeo Hills in the North and extends in the south from the Narmada River. - The Deccan plateau is a result of volcanic activity, forming horizontal layers of solidified lava and a distinct trap structure. - The plateau is spread across an area of over 5,00,000 sq. km with an average elevation of 600m. - The highest point is marked at Doddabetta Peak, Tamil Nadu. - The major rivers in the Deccan Plateau are Godavari, Krishna and Kaveri flowing west to east. - The climate is usually tropical, hot and dry summers, accompanied by mild winters with an average rainfall of 600 mm. - Crops grown are usually rice, sorghum, cotton, tobacco and spices. 2. Central Highlands - The Central Highlands have an elevation of 700-1,000m having a slope from north to northeast. The boundaries are aravalli range in the west, satpura range in the north, rajmahal hills in the east and chotanagpur plateau in the south. - The central highlands are wider in the west and narrow in the east and extend towards Bundelkhand and Baghelkhand in the east. - The desert extension reaches Jaisalmer, covered by barchans and sand ridges. - The presence of metamorphic rocks can be found in the form of rocks like marble, slate and gneiss. - The Vindhya and the Kaimur Ranges are a source of Yamuna tributaries and the Banas river is an important tributary of Chambal rising from the Aravallis. 3. Northeastern Plateau - The Northeastern Plateau is formed because of the northeastern drift of the Indian Plate during Himalayan formation, creating the Malda Gap between Rajmahal Hills and Meghalaya Plateau, filled by river deposits. - The area extends in Meghalaya, Karbi- Anglong Plateau and North Cachar Hills. - The hill ranges include Garo, Khasi and Jaintia Hills from west to east. - The Kopili river separates Mikir, Regma and Barail Hills from Meghalaya Plateau. - The northeastern plateau receives a heavy southwest monsoon rainfall and is highly eroded on the surface. Last updated on March, 2026 → UPSC Notification 2026 is now out on the official website at upsconline.nic.in. → UPSC IFoS Notification 2026 is now out on the official website at upsconline.nic.in. → UPSC Calendar 2026 has been released. → UPSC Final Result 2025 is expected to be released soon. → Check out the latest UPSC Syllabus 2026 here. → Join Vajiram & Ravi’s Interview Guidance Programme for expert help to crack your final UPSC stage. → UPSC Mains Result 2025 is now out. → UPSC Prelims 2026 will be conducted on 24th May, 2026 & UPSC Mains 2026 will be conducted on 21st August 2026. → The UPSC Selection Process is of 3 stages-Prelims, Mains and Interview. → Prepare effectively with Vajiram & Ravi’s UPSC Prelims Test Series 2026 featuring full-length mock tests, detailed solutions, and performance analysis. → Enroll in Vajiram & Ravi’s UPSC Mains Test Series 2026 for structured answer writing practice, expert evaluation, and exam-oriented feedback. → Join Vajiram & Ravi’s Best UPSC Mentorship Program for personalized guidance, strategy planning, and one-to-one support from experienced mentors. → Check UPSC Marksheet 2024 Here. → UPSC Toppers List 2024 is released now. Shakti Dubey is UPSC AIR 1 2024 Topper. → Also check Best UPSC Coaching in India Peninsular Plateau FAQs Q1. Why is the Peninsular Plateau important for the UPSC exam?+ Q2. Which is the largest division of the Peninsular Plateau?+ Q3. Which region of the plateau is richest in minerals?+ Q4. What type of rocks dominate the Peninsular Plateau?+ Q5. Why does the plateau have east-flowing rivers?+ Tags: peninsular plateau


--- [Geography of India] ---
Geography of India 2007 Schools Wikipedia Selection. Related subjects: Geography of Asia | Geography of {{{name}}} | | | Continent | Asia | | Region | Southern Asia Indian subcontinent | | Coordinates | 20°00'N 77°00' E | | Area | Ranked 7th 3,287,590 km² 1,269,345.60 miles² 90.44% land 9.56% water | | Coastline | 7,516 km (4,670.23 miles) | | Borders | Total land borders: 14,103 km (8,763 miles) Bangladesh: 4,053 km (2,520 miles) Bhutan: 605 km (376 miles) Myanmar: 1,463 km (909 miles) China (PRC): 3,380 km (2,100 miles) Nepal: 1,690 km (1,050 miles) Pakistan: 2,912 km (1,809 miles) | | Highest point | Kanchenjunga 8,598 m (28,209 ft) | | Lowest point | Kuttanad −2.2 m (−7.2 ft) | | Longest river | Ganges- Brahmaputra | | Largest lake | Chilka Lake | The geography of India is extremely diverse, with landscape ranging from snow-capped mountain ranges to deserts, plains, hills and plateaus. India comprises most of the Indian subcontinent situated on the Indian Plate, the northerly portion of the Indo-Australian Plate. Having a coastline of over 7,000 km (4,300 miles), most of India lies on a peninsula in southern Asia that protrudes into the Indian Ocean. India is bounded in the southwest by the Arabian Sea and in the southeast by the Bay of Bengal. The fertile Indo-Gangetic plain occupies most of northern, central and eastern India, while the Deccan Plateau occupies most of southern India. To the west of the country is the Thar Desert, which consists of a mix of rocky and sandy desert. India's east and northeastern border consists of the high Himalayan range. The highest point in India is disputed due to a territorial dispute with Pakistan; according to India's claim, the highest point (located in the disputed Kashmir territory) is K2, at 8,611 m (28,251 feet). The highest point in undisputed Indian territory is Kangchenjunga, at 8,598 m (28,208 feet). Climate ranges from equatorial in the far south, to tundra in the Himalayan altitudes. India is bordered by Pakistan, the People's Republic of China, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal, Bhutan and Afghanistan. Sri Lanka and the Maldives are island nations to the south of India. Politically, India is divided into 28 states, six federally administered union territories and a national capital territory. The political divisions generally follow linguistic and ethnic boundaries rather than geographic transitions. Location and extent India lies to the north of the equator between 8 degree 4 minutes and 37 degree 6 minutes north latitude and 68 degrees 7 minutes and 97 degrees 25 minutes east longitude. It is the seventh-largest country in the world, with a total land area of 3,287,590 km² (1,269,219 square miles). India measures 3,214 km (1,997 miles) from north to south and 2,933 km (1,822 miles) from east to west. It has a land frontier of 15,200 km (9,445 miles) and a coastline of 7,516.5 km (4,670.5 miles). The Andaman and Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal and Lakshadweep in the Arabian Sea are parts of India. India is bounded on the southwest by the Arabian Sea and on the southeast by the Bay of Bengal. On the north, northeast, and northwest are the Himalayas. Kanyakumari constitutes the southern tip of the Indian peninsula, which narrows before ending in the Indian Ocean. Political geography India is divided into 29 states (which are further subdivided into districts), six union territories and the National Capital Territory of Delhi. States have their own elected government, while Union Territories are governed by an administrator appointed by the union government. States: | Union Territories: - Andaman and Nicobar Islands - Chandigarh - Dadra and Nagar Haveli - Daman and Diu - Lakshadweep - Puducherry - National Capital Territory of Delhi The state of Jammu and Kashmir is claimed by India but disputed by Pakistan and China, who administer parts of the territory. The state of Arunachal Pradesh is claimed by China but administered by India. Geographical regions India is divided into seven geographic regions. They are - The northern mountains including the Himalayas and the northeast mountain ranges. - Indo-Gangetic plains - Thar Desert - Central Highlands and Deccan Plateau - East Coast - West Coast - Bordering seas and islands Mountains A great arc of mountains, composed of the Himalaya, Hindu Kush, and Patkai ranges, define the Indian subcontinent. These mountains were formed by the ongoing tectonic collision of the Indian Plate with the Eurasian Plate which started some 50 million years ago. These mountain ranges are home to some of the tallest mountains in the world and provide a natural barrier against the cold polar winds. They also facilitate the monsoons that drive climate in India. The protection and climatic control they have provided has been a geographical quality that has assisted India's position as a Great power. The numerous rivers that originate in these mountains provide water to the fertile Indo-Gangetic plains. These mountains are recognised by biogeographers as the boundary between two of the earth's great ecozones; the temperate Palearctic that covers most of Eurasia, and the tropical and subtropical Indomalaya ecozone that includes the Indian subcontinent and extend into Southeast Asia and Indonesia. Historically, these ranges have served as barriers to invaders. India has seven major mountain ranges having peaks of over 1,000 m (3,300 feet). The Himalayas are the only mountain ranges to have snow-capped peaks. These ranges are: - Aravalli - Eastern Ghats - Himalayas - Patkai - Vindhyas - Sahyadri or Western Ghats - Satpuras - Karakoram The Himalaya mountain range is the world's highest mountain range. They form India's north-eastern border, separating it from the rest of Asia. The Himalayas are one of the world's youngest mountain ranges, and extend almost uninterrupted for a distance of 2,500 km (1,550 miles), covering an area of 500,000 km² (193,000 square miles). The Himalayas extend from the state of Jammu and Kashmir in the west to the state of Arunachal Pradesh in the east. These states along with Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal, and Sikkim lie mostly in the Himalayan region. Some of the Himalayan peaks range over 7,000 m (23,000 feet) and the snow line ranges between 6,000 m (19,600 feet) in Sikkim to around 3,000 m (9,850 feet) in Kashmir. Kangchenjunga, which lies in Sikkim, is the highest point in the country's territory (undisputed). Most peaks in the Himalayas remain snowbound throughout the year. The Shiwalik, or lower Himalaya, consists of smaller hills towards the Indian side. Most of the rock formations are young and highly unstable, with landslides being a regular phenomenon during the rainy season. Many of India's hill stations are located on this range. The climate varies from sub tropical in the foothills to tundra at the higher elevations of these mountain ranges. The mountains on India's eastern border with Myanmar are called as the Patkai or the Purvanchal. They were created by the same tectonic processes that resulted in the formation of the Himalaya. The features of the Patkai ranges are conical peaks, steep slopes and deep valleys. The Patkai ranges are not as rugged or tall as the Himalayas. There are three hill ranges that come under the Patkai: The Patkai-Bum, the Garo- Khasi- Jaintia, and the Lushai hills. The Garo-Khasi range is in the Indian state of Meghalaya. The climate ranges from temperate to alpine due to altitude. Cherrapunji, which lies on the windward side of these hills, has the distinction of being the wettest place in the world, receiving the highest annual rainfall. The Vindhya range runs across most of central India, covering a distance of 1,050 km (652 miles). The average elevation of these hills is 300 m (1,000 feet). They are believed to have been formed by the wastes created due to the weathering of the ancient Aravalli mountains. It geographically separates northern India from southern India. The western end of the range lies in eastern Gujarat, near its border with the state of Madhya Pradesh, and the range runs east and north nearly to the Ganges River at Mirzapur. The Satpura Range is a range of hills in central India. It begins in eastern Gujarat near the Arabian Sea coast, then runs east through Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and ends in the state of Chhattisgarh. It extends for a distance of 900 km with many of its peaks rising above 1000 m (3,300 feet). It is angular in shape, with its vertex at Ratnapuri and the two sides being parallel to the Tapti and Narmada river. It runs parallel to the Vindhya Range, which lies to the north, and these two east-west ranges divide the Indo-Gangetic plain of northern India from the Deccan Plateau lying in the south. The Narmada runs in the depression between the Satpura and Vindhya ranges, and drains the northern slope of the Satpura range, running west towards the Arabian Sea. The Aravalli Range is the oldest mountain range in India, running from northeast to southwest across Rajasthan in western India, extending approximately 500 km (310 miles). The northern end of the range continues as isolated hills and rocky ridges into Haryana, ending near Delhi. The highest peak is Mount Abu, rising to 1,722 m (5,653 feet), lying near the southwestern extremity of the range, close to the border with Gujarat. The city of Ajmer with its lake lies on the southern slope of the range in Rajasthan. The Aravalli Range is the eroded stub of an ancient folded mountain system that was once snow-capped. The range rose in a Precambrian event called the Aravalli-Delhi orogen. The range joins two of the ancient segments that make up the Indian craton, the Marwar segment to the northwest of the range, and the Bundelkhand segment to the southeast. The present Aravalli range is only a remnant of the gigantic system that existed in prehistoric times with several of its sum mits rising above the snow line and nourishing glaciers of stupendous magnitude which in turn fed many great rivers. The Western Ghats or Sahyadri mountains run along the western edge of India's Deccan Plateau, and separate the Deccan plateau from a narrow coastal plain along the Arabian Sea. The range starts south of the Tapti River near the border of Gujarat and Maharashtra, and runs approximately 1,600 km (1,000 miles) through the states of Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu, almost to the southern tip of the Indian peninsula. The average elevation is around 1,000 m with the higher peaks occurring in the southern section in Nilgiris and in Kerala. The Anai Mudi in the Cardamom Hills at 2,695 m (8,841 feet) in Kerala is the highest peak in the Western Ghats. The Eastern Ghats are a discontinuous range of mountains, which have been eroded and cut through by the four major rivers of southern India, the Godavari, Mahanadi, Krishna, and Kaveri. These mountain ranges extend from West Bengal in the north, through Orissa and Andhra Pradesh to Tamil Nadu in the south. They run parallel to the Bay of Bengal and are not as tall as the Western Ghats, though some of its peaks are over 1000 m in height. The Eastern and Western Ghats meet at the Nilgiri or Malay knot in Tamil Nadu. The Anai Mudi in the Cardamom Hills at 2,695 m (8,841 feet) in Kerala is the highest peak in the Western Ghats. The Nilgiris are considered to be a part of the Western Ghats. Indo-Gangetic plain The Indo-Gangetic plains are large floodplains of the Indus and the Ganga- Brahmaputra river systems. They run parallel to the Himalaya mountains, from Jammu and Kashmir in the west to Assam in the east, draining the states of Punjab, Haryana, eastern Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. The plains encompass an area of 700,000 km² (270,000 mile²) and vary in width through their length by several hundred kilometres. Major rivers that form a part of this system are the Ganga (Ganges) and Indus River along with their tributaries; Beas, Yamuna, Gomti, Ravi, Chambal, Sutlej and Chenab. The Indo-Gangetic belt is the world's most extensive expanse of uninterrupted alluvium formed by the deposition of silt by the numerous rivers. The plains are flat and mostly treeless, making it conducive for irrigation through canals. The area is also rich in ground water sources. The plains are one of the world's most intensely farmed areas. Crops grown on the Indo-Gangetic Plain are primarily rice and wheat, grown in rotation. Other crops include maize, sugarcane and cotton. Also known as the Great Plains, the Indo-Gangetic plains rank among the world's most densely populated areas. Water bodies of India are Indian ocean, arabian sea, bay of bengal. Thar Desert The Thar Desert (also known as the Great Indian Desert) is a hot desert that forms a significant portion of western India. Spread over four states in India – Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Gujarat it covers an area of 208,110 km² (80,350 mile²). The desert continues into Pakistan as the Cholistan Desert. Most of the Thar Desert is situated in Rajasthan, covering 61% of its geographic area. Most of the desert is rocky, with a small part of the extreme west of the desert being sandy. The origin of the Thar Desert is uncertain. Some geologists consider it to be 4,000 to 10,000 years old, whereas others state that aridity began in this region much earlier. The area is characterised by extreme temperatures of above 45 ° C (113 ° F) in summer to below freezing in winters. Rainfall is precarious and erratic, ranging from below 120 mm (4.72 in) in the extreme west to 375 mm (14.75 in) eastward. The lack of rainfall is mainly due to the unique position of the desert with respect to the Aravalli range. The desert lies in the rain shadow area of the Bay of Bengal arm of the southwest monsoon. The parallel nature of the range to the Arabian Sea arm also means that the desert does not receive much rainfall. The desert can be divided into two regions, the great Desert and the little desert. The great Desert extends northwards from the edge of the Rann of Kutch region of Gujarat. The little desert extends from the River Luni between the towns of Jodhpur and Jaisalmer, up to the northern areas. The soils of the arid region are generally sandy to sandy-loam in texture. The consistency and depth vary according to the topographical features. The low-lying loams are heavier and may have a hard pan of clay, calcium carbonate or gypsum. Due to the low population density, the effect of the population on the environment is relatively less compared to the rest of India. Highlands The Central Highlands are composed of three main plateaus – the Malwa Plateau in the west, the Deccan Plateau in the south, (covering most of the Indian peninsula); and the Chota Nagpur Plateau in Jharkhand towards the east. The Deccan plateau is a large triangular plateau, bounded by the Vindhyas to the north and flanked by the Eastern and Western Ghats. The Deccan covers a total area of 1.9 million km² (735,000 mile²). It is mostly flat, with elevations ranging from 300 to 600 m (1,000 to 2,000 feet). The name Deccan comes from the Sanskrit word dakshina, which means "the south". The plateau slopes gently from west to east and gives rise to several peninsular rivers such as the Godavari, the Krishna, the Kaveri and the Narmada. This region is mostly semi-arid as it lies on the leeward side of both Ghats. Much of the Deccan is covered by thorn scrub forest scattered with small regions of deciduous broadleaf forest. Climate ranges from hot summers to mild winters. The Chota Nagpur Plateau is a plateau in eastern India, which covers much of Jharkhand state as well as adjacent parts of Orissa, Bihar, and Chhattisgarh. The total area of Chota Nagpur Plateau is approximately 65,000 km² (25,000 mile²). The Chota Nagpur Plateau is made up of three smaller plateaus, the Ranchi, Hazaribagh, and Kodarma plateaus. The Ranchi plateau is the largest of the plateaus, with an average elevation of 700 m (2,300 feet). Much of the plateau is forested, covered by the Chota Nagpur dry deciduous forests. The plateau is famous for its vast reserves of ores and coal. Besides the Great Indian peninsula, the Kathiawar Peninsula in Gujarat is another large peninsula of India. East coast The Eastern Coastal Plain is a wide stretch of land lying between the Eastern Ghats and the Bay of Bengal. It stretches from Tamil Nadu in the south to West Bengal in the north. Deltas of many of India's rivers form a major portion of these plains. The Mahanadi, Godavari, Kaveri and Krishna rivers drain these plains. The region receives both the Northeast and Southwest monsoon rains with its annual rainfall averaging between 1,000 mm (40 in) and 3,000 mm (120 in). The width of the plains varies between 100 to 130 km (62 to 80 miles). The plains are divided into six regions: The Mahanadi delta; the southern Andhra Pradesh plain; the Krishna Godavari deltas; the Kanyakumari coast; Coromandel Coast and sandy littoral. West coast The Western Coastal Plain is a narrow strip of land sandwiched between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea. The strip begins in Gujarat in the north and extends across the states of Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala. The plains are narrow, and range from 50 to 100 km (30 to 60 miles) in width. Small rivers and numerous backwaters inundate the region. The rivers, which originate in the Western Ghats, are fast flowing and are mostly perennial. The fast flowing nature of the rivers results in the formation of estuaries rather than deltas. Major rivers flowing into the sea are the Tapi, Narmada, Mandovi and Zuari. The coast is divided into three regions. The northern region of Maharashtra and Goa is known as the Konkan Coast, the central region of Karnataka is known as the Kanara Coast and the southern coastline of Kerala is known as the Malabar Coast. Vegetation in this region is mostly deciduous. The Malabar Coast has its own unique ecoregion known as the Malabar Coast moist forests. Islands India has two major offshore island possessions: the Lakshadweep islands and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Both these island groups are administered by the Union government of India as Union Territories. The Lakshadweep islands lie 200 to 300 km (124 to 186 miles) off the coast of Kerala in the Arabian Sea. It consists of twelve coral atolls, three coral reefs, and five banks. Ten of these islands are inhabited. The Andaman and Nicobar island chain lies in the Bay of Bengal near the Myanmar coast. It is located 950 km (590 miles) from Kolkata (Calcutta) and 193 km (120 miles) from Cape Negrais in Myanmar. The territory consists of two island groups, the Andaman Islands and the Nicobar Islands. The Andaman islands consist of 204 islands having a total length of 352 km (220 miles). The Nicobar Islands, which lie south of the Andamans, consists of twenty-two islands with a total area of 1,841 km² (710 mile²). The highest point is Mount Thullier at 642 m (2,140 feet). Indira Point, India's southernmost land point is situated in the Nicobar islands, and lies just 189 km (117 miles) from the Indonesian island of Sumatra to the southeast. Significant islands just off the Indian coast include Diu, a former Portuguese exclave; Majuli, Asia's largest freshwater island; Salcette Island, India's most populous island, on which Mumbai (Bombay) city is located; Elephanta in Bombay Harbour; and Sriharikota barrier island in Andhra Pradesh. Rivers All major rivers of India originate from one of the three main watersheds. They are: - The Himalaya and the Karakoram ranges - Vindhya and Satpura range in central India - Sahyadri or Western Ghats in western India The Himalayan river networks are snow-fed and have a continuous flow throughout the year. The other two networks are dependent on the monsoons and shrink into rivulets during the dry season. Twelve of India's rivers are classified as major, with the total catchment area exceeding 2,528,000 km² (976,000 mile²). Himalayan rivers or the northern rivers that flow westward into Pakistan are the Indus, Beas, Chenab, Ravi, Sutlej, and Jhelum. The Ganga-Brahmaputra-Meghana system has the largest catchment area of 1,100,000 km² (424,700 mile²). The river Ganga originates at the Gangotri Glacier in Uttaranchal. It flows in a south easterly direction, draining into Bangladesh. The Yamuna and Gomti rivers also arise in the Western Himalayas and join the Ganga river in the plains. The Brahmaputra, another tributary of the Ganga originates in Tibet and enters India in the far eastern state of Arunachal Pradesh. It then proceeds westwards, unifying with the Ganga in Bangladesh. The Chambal, another tributary of the Ganga originates from the Vindhya-Satpura watershed. The river flows eastward. Westward flowing rivers from this watershed are the Narmada (also called Nerbudda) and Tapti (also spelled Tapi) rivers which drain into the Arabian Sea in Gujarat. The river network that flows from east to west constitutes 10% of the total outflow. The Western Ghats are the source of all Deccan rivers. Major rivers in the Deccan include the Mahanadi River through the Mahanadi River Delta, Godavari River, Krishna River, and Kaveri River (also spelled Cauvery), all draining into the Bay of Bengal. These rivers constitute 20% of India's total outflow. Bodies of water Major gulfs include the Gulf of Cambay, Gulf of Kutch and the Gulf of Mannar. Straits include the Palk Strait which separates India from Sri Lanka and the Ten Degree Channel, separating the Andamans from the Nicobar Islands and the Eight Degree Channel separating the Laccadive and Amindivi Islands from Minicoy Island towards the south. Important capes include the Cape Comorin, the southern tip of mainland India, Indira Point, the southernmost location of India, Rama's Bridge and Point Calimere. Arabian Sea is to the west of India. Bay of Bengal is to the eastern side of India while India Ocean is to the South of India. Smaller seas include the Laccadive Sea and the Andaman Sea. There are four coral reefs in India and are located in; the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Gulf of Mannar, Lakshadweep and Gulf of Kutch. Important lakes include Chilka Lake, the country's largest salt-water lake in Orissa; Kolleru Lake in Andhra Pradesh; Loktak Lake in Manipur, Dal Lake in Kashmir, Sambhar Lake in Rajasthan, and the Sasthamkotta Lake in Kerala. Wetlands India's wetland ecosystem is widely distributed from the cold and arid; from ones in the Ladakh region in the state of Jammu and Kashmir to the ones in the wet and humid climate of peninsula India. Most of the wetlands are directly or indirectly linked to India's river networks. The Indian government has identified a total of 22 wetlands for conservation. Among the protected wetlands are the tropical mangrove forests in peninsular India and the salt mudflats in western India. Mangrove forests occur all along the Indian coastline, in sheltered estuaries, creeks, backwaters, salt marshes and mud flats. The mangrove area covers a total of 6,740 km² (2,600 mile²) which comprises 7% of the world's total mangrove cover. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands; the Sundarbans; Gulf of Kutch; deltas of the Mahanadi, Godavari and Krishna; and parts of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala have large mangrove covers. Most of the identified wetlands adjoin or are parts of sanctuaries, national parks and are thus protected. The Sundarbans The Sundarbans delta is the largest mangrove forest in the world. It lies at the mouth of the Ganges and is spread across areas of Bangladesh and West Bengal, India. The Bangladeshi and Indian portions of the jungle are listed in the UNESCO world heritage list separately as the Sundarbans and Sundarbans National Park respectively, though they are parts of the same forest. The Sundarbans are intersected by a complex network of tidal waterways, mudflats and small islands of salt-tolerant mangrove forests, and presents an excellent example of ongoing ecological processes. The area is known for its wide range of fauna. The most famous among these is the Bengal Tiger, but numerous species of birds, spotted deer, crocodiles and snakes also inhabit it. It is estimated that there are now 400 Bengal tigers and about 30,000 spotted deer in the area. Rann of Kutch The Rann of Kutch is a marshy region located in the Gujarat state of India, which borders the Sindh region of Pakistan. The name Rann comes from the Hindi word ran meaning "salt marsh." It occupies a total area of 27,900 km² (10,800 mile²). The region was originally a part of the Arabian Sea. Geologic forces, most likely by earthquakes, resulted in the damming up of the region, turning it into a large salt-water lagoon. This area gradually filled with silt thus turning it into a seasonal salt marsh. During the monsoons, the area turns into a shallow marsh, often flooding to knee-depth height. After the monsoons, the region turns dry and becomes parched. Climate India's climate is strongly influenced by the Himalayas and the Thar Desert. The Himalayas, along with the Hindu Kush mountains in Pakistan, provide a barrier to the cold winds from central Asia. This keeps most of the Indian subcontinent warmer than most locations in similar latitudes. The Thar Desert is responsible for attracting the moisture laden monsoon winds that provide most of India's rainfall. It is difficult to generalise India's climate. India's huge size sees climatic conditions in Kashmir having little relation to that in the extreme south. In addition to this, the varied topography of the land sees many regions having their own microclimates. Climate in India ranges from tropical in the south to a temperate climate in the north. Parts of India in the Himalayas have a polar climate. Meteorologists divide the year into four main seasons for most of the country: monsoon, summer, winter and withdrawal of the monsoons. Parts of India that lie in the Himalayan region see five seasons: spring, summer, monsoons, autumn and winter. Sustained snowfalls occur only in the elevated sections. Summer lasts between March and June in most parts of India. Temperatures exceed 40 °C (104 °F) during the day. The coastal regions exceed 30 °C (86 °F) coupled with high levels of humidity. In the Thar desert area temperatures can exceed 45 °C (113 °F). Summer is followed by the southwest monsoon rains that provide most of India with its rainfall. The rain-bearing clouds are attracted to the low-pressure system created by the Thar Desert. The official date for the arrival of the monsoon is 1 June, when the monsoon crosses the Kerala coast. The southwest monsoon splits into two arms, the Bay of Bengal arm and the Arabian Sea arm. The Bay of Bengal arm moves north-wards crossing northeast India in early June. It then progresses eastwards, crossing Delhi by June 29. The Arabian Sea arm moves north-wards and deposits much of its rain on the windward side of Western Ghats. By early July, most of India receives rain from the monsoons. The monsoons start retreating by August from northern India and by October from Kerala. This short period after the retreat is known as the retreat of the monsoons and is characterised by still weather. By November, winter starts setting in the northern areas. Winters start in November in northern India and late December in southern India. Winters in peninsula India see mild to warm days and cool nights. Further north the temperature is cooler. Temperatures in some parts of the Indian plains sometimes fall below freezing. Most of northern India is plagued by fog during this season. The highest temperature recoded in India was 50.6 °C (123.08 °F) in Alwar in 1955. The lowest was −45 °C (−49 °F) in Kashmir. Recent claims of temperatures touching 55 °C (131 °F) in Orissa have been met with some scepticism by the Indian Meteorological Department, largely on the method of recording of such data. Geology India has a varied geology spanning the entire spectrum of the geological time period. India's geological features are classified based on their era of formation. The Pre-Cambrian period formations of Cudappah and Vindhyan systems are spread out over the eastern and southern states. A small part of this period is spread over western and central India. The Paleozoic Era formations from the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian and Devonian system are found in the Western Himalaya region in Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. The Mesozoic Era Deccan Traps formation is seen over most of the northern Deccan. Geologists believe that the Deccan Traps were the result of sub-aerial volcanic activity. The Trap soil is black in colour and conducive to agriculture. The Carboniferous system, Permian System, Triassic and Jurassic systems are seen in the western Himalayas. The Jurassic system is also seen in Rajasthan. Tertiary Period imprints are seen in parts of Manipur, Nagaland, parts of Arunachal Pradesh and along the Himalayan belt. The Cretaceous system is seen in central India in the Vindhyas and part of the Indo-Gangetic plains. The Gondowana system is also seen in the Narmada River area in the Vindhyas and Satpuras. The Eocene system is seen in the western Himalayas and Assam. Oligocene formations are seen in Kutch and in Assam. The Pleistocene system is found over central India. It is rich in minerals such as lignite, iron ore, manganese and aluminium. The Andaman and Nicobar Island groups are thought to have been formed in this era by volcanoes. The Himalayas are a result of the convergence and deformation of the Indo-Australian and Eurasian Plates. Their continued convergence raises the height of the Himalayas by 1 cm each year. Natural disasters India is prone to several natural disasters, responsible for huge losses in life and property. Natural disasters in India include droughts; flash floods, as well as widespread and destructive flooding from monsoonal rains; severe cyclones; tsunamis; volcanic eruptions; hurricanes; landslides; avalanche; snowstorms; and earthquakes. Floods are the most common natural disaster in India. During the monsoon season, heavy rainfall may cause rivers to distend their banks, often flooding the surrounding areas. The Brahmaputra River is prone to perennial flooding during the monsoon season. Floods are responsible for a number of deaths and property loss in many parts of India. With the exception of a few states, almost all of India is prone to flooding. Indian agriculture is heavily dependent on the monsoon as a source of water. In some parts of India, the failure of the monsoons results in water deficiency in the region causing extensive crop losses. Drought prone regions include south Maharashtra, north Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Gujarat and Rajasthan. In the past, failure of monsoons has led to famines causing great damage. According to earthquake hazard zoning of India, tectonic plates beneath the earth's surface are responsible for yearly earthquakes along the Himalayan belt and in northeast India. This region is classified as a Zone V, indicating that it is a very high-risk area. Parts of western India, around the Kutch region in Gujarat and Koyna in Maharashtra, are classified as a Zone IV region (high risk). Other areas have a moderate to low risk chance of an earthquake occurring. Cyclones are another natural disaster, affecting thousands living in the coastal regions. Cyclones are severe and bring with them heavy rains that cut off supplies and relief to the affected areas. On 2004- 12-26, a tsunami caused by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake struck the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and India's east coast resulting in the loss of over ten thousand individuals. Until then India was thought to have negligible activity related to tsunamis, though there is historical anecdotal evidence of its occurrence in the past. India has one active volcano: the Barren Island volcano which last erupted in May 2005. There is also a dormant volcano called the Narcondum and a Mud volcano at Baratang. All these volcanoes lie in the Andaman Islands. Landslides are common in the Lower Himalaya owing to labile rock formations due to the young age of the hills. Parts of the Western Ghats also suffer from low intensity landslides. Avalanches occur in Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim. During the summer months, dust storms cause immense property damage in northern India. These storms bring with it large amounts of dust from arid regions. Hailstones are common in parts of India, and cause severe damage to the standing crops. International agreements India is a party to several International agreements related to environment and climate, the most prominent among them are: | Treaties and Agreements | | |---|---| | Specific Regions and Seas | The Antarctic Treaty, Law of the Sea, Ship Pollution ( MARPOL 73/78), Whaling | | Atmosphere and Climate | Climate Change, Kyoto Protocol, Ozone Layer Protection, Nuclear Test Ban | | Biodiversity, Environment and Forests | Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Tropical Timber 83 and Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands | | Wastes | Hazardous Wastes | | Rivers | Indus Waters Treaty |
