=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Setting information - Starfinder Wiki]
The Veskarium The Veskarium refers not to a single planet but all eight colonised planets within the one system. One of those planets, Vesk Prime (Veskarium I), is the homeland of the vesk. It is also the homeland to several sentient slave species of the Vesk including jackalfolk, snakemen, and porcupeople.
URL: https://starfinder.fandom.com/wiki/Setting_information

[Vesk - Ancestries - Archives of Nethys: Starfinder 2nd Edition Database]
Vesk society is highly organized and militaristic. Vesk first dwelled on a single planet but quickly spread to other worlds in their system. Today, the name for these conquered worlds is the Veskarium, with each given a number to mark their distance from the sun and order of conquest (such as Vesk-3 or Vesk-8). Vesk Prime, the vesk ancestral home, is the seat of Veskarium government and the ...
URL: https://2e.aonsrd.com/ancestries/15-vesk

[Veskarium - StarfinderWiki]
2 days ago · The Veskarium is a militant interplanetary empire located primarily in the Ghavaniska system in Near Space. The Ghavaniska system is the nearest inhabited solar system to the Pact Worlds, while the Veskarium is named after its dominant species, the vesk. 12
URL: https://starfinderwiki.com/wiki/Veskarium

[Welcome To The Veskarium! | Paizo Blog]
The galaxy of the Starfinder RPG expands with this month's release of Starfinder Near Space, which details dozens of planets and civilizations in this region of the galaxy and includes new starships and a wide selection of character option as well. Among the many worlds located within Near Space are not only the allied planets of the Pact Worlds, but also the core worlds of the Veskarium ...
URL: https://paizo.com/blog/welcome-to-the-veskarium

[Starfinder Timeline and Events]
Aug 18, 2024 — 161 Pre-Gap: The Veskarium completes its initial conquest of all eight planets in their solar system. Circa 100 Pre-Gap: The Russian Revolution ...
URL: https://paizo.com/threads/rzs4ww9l?Starfinder-Timeline-and-Events


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Setting information - Starfinder Wiki] ---
There's a lot of setting information from a "Pact Worlds" perspective -- specifically a human perspective -- in Chapter 12 of the CRB. Most of it is pretty irrelevant to this setting but feel free to read it. This page contains italicised text as excerpts from the CRB, the rest is homebrew elaborations for use in this campaign. Gods & religion - There are no "real" gods like in medieval settings or Starfinder core. Worshippers may believe their god speaks to them or answers their prayers but there is no evidence to verify this. - Some individuals still profess a religion of some kind, but that god does not make themselves known in any real way (as above). Furthermore, the transition to life in space not only tends to require the shedding of religion in the first place but also soon leads to scriptural nonsense (eg. that the sun god circles Earth means little to worshippers who've never seen their home planet or sun. Similarly, that a god created a planet in a number of days means little to someone who's never experienced a day) which rapidly loses traction as the generations progress. - Nonetheless, some religiosity persists but isn't universal to an entire race (and sometimes even crosses between species from different planets). Magic use - Not all races (species) can use magic like in Starfinder core. The appropriate organ/technology/mechanism is required to perform the "magic". - There is also considerable debate as to what counts as magic and what is simply not yet explained/understood. Shirren pheromones and Lashunta sensory organs certainly give some humans the feeling that something supernatural is taking place but these aren't shocking abilities within their own communities. Race Basically refers to species as the core rules. Each species has races that would've been localised regions on their home planet, but the transition to a space faring society unavoidably increases their ability to/technology for global travel and, as such, in general, little if any racial differences exist within a species. Geography The Riven Shroud | The Shroud, a Solar-Powered Starship Graveyard | - In a remote portion of a galactic arm is an immense spherical megastructure built directly around its sun. Called the Riven Shroud, it is a Dyson sphere: a lacy grid of continent-wide modules of alien architecture, linked by vast solar sails but rent open in some unknown disaster. Its creators vanished millennia ago, and much of it remains abandoned. The ruined regions near the gash are open to the vacuum. Much of the rest appears relatively intact and is home to isolated communities of researchers, scavengers, and squatters. Several, including the aatevak, qotraua, and xixinnt, claim descent from the Shroud’s creators, but the mismatch between their biology and the structure’s architecture makes their claims unlikely. - The Shroud’s life-support system functions only partially, and some areas have unbreathable atmospheres or fluctuating gravity. Its remaining defense systems periodically engage without provocation. The space around and within it is also perilous, containing massive haunts said to be the ghostly remains of the worlds destroyed to fuel the Shroud’s creation. The structure also suffers periodic incursions from organisations seeking its secrets. - Eerily, the Riven Shroud may be using these incursions to slowly repair itself. Bordering its edges are irregular arrays of derelict ships and stretches of newer sail. The largest and most ancient of this dead armada share the same strange architecture as the Shroud. Other ships are later arrivals that carried would-be despoilers or settlers. Most of these fell to battles with competing factions or the sphere’s automated defences but some appear to be abandoned, with nary a trace of their crews’ fates. ((More jernk on the Shroud to come...)) Daegox IV The entire planet of Daegox IV serves as a galactic prison. While it's unclear why the various governments, alliances, and factions of the galaxy send prisoners here, what is clear is that hundreds of thousands of prisoners inhabit this planet with the least dangerous able to roam the lush forested wilderness of its surface. The planet is owned and run by Daegox Corporation, composed of a mysterious humanoid race of unknown origins and curate Daegox IV from an orbital platform named Skywatcher. Whispers and rumours are all Daegox Corp's competitors have to go on for their motives and goals and their involvement in the galactic economy appears to be limited to prisoner admission fees. Their competitors are becoming increasingly suspicious of the company's intentions due to the suffocating lack of information. The Veskarium The Veskarium refers not to a single planet but all eight colonised planets within the one system. One of those planets, Vesk Prime (Veskarium I), is the homeland of the vesk. It is also the homeland to several sentient slave species of the Vesk including jackalfolk, snakemen, and porcupeople. Vesk 2 homed some kind of hyper-intelligent squidfaced people who were also subjugated once the Vesk made it to space. Antlike beings and primitive feline barbarians lived on Vesk 5 and 6 respectively. And Vesk 7 and 8 were the planets belonging to frost behemoths who had developed space travel well before the vesk conquered them. All were brought under the vesk empire, and although the standard of living has skyrocketed under vesk rule, their rigid caste structure with the vesk on top is unwelcome to races accustomed to absolute conquest like the humans or shirren. Ultimately, despite their racial supremacy, unforgiving legal system, and tyrannical autocracy, the vesk seek to provide their vassal races with stability, comfort, and luxury. But that utopia is a way off, since their aggressive expansion tactics have failed to endear them with the other spacefaring races of the galaxy. Custom worlds There are a great many planets in a great many systems in a great many clusters that have discovered the Shroud. There must be tons of planets not documented in the Starfinder CRB so if you don't want to use one in there, make your own... There are plenty of resources to generate something for inspiration. - This tool will generate a system complete with a handful of variables you'll probably want to know. - Alternatively, you might get more variation/planets with rolling dice on a table like this. Roll a d6 for each column (or just choose them). | d6 | Homeworld | Social position | Reason to leave | |---|---|---|---| | 1 | Dying planet | Persona non grata | Self-imposed exile | | 2 | Lifelong spacer | Slave | On the run from someone powerful | | 3 | Forge world | Street rat | Wanted dead or alive by authorities | | 4 | Overpopulated world | Working class | Sense of duty | | 5 | Terraformed paradise | Middle class | Imposed mission | | 6 | Terraformed nightmare | Nobleborn | Destined for greatness |


--- [Vesk - Ancestries - Archives of Nethys: Starfinder 2nd Edition Database] ---
Vesk Vesk are a warmongering, reptilian people who conquered the eight worlds in their solar system shortly after they developed spaceflight, forming the Veskarium empire. Vesk tend to embrace conflict and respect strength and military might. Vesk have a long history of conflict, first as conquerors within their own star system and later clashing with neighboring stellar powers such as the Pact Worlds and the Swarm. Currently, the Veskarium is at war with the Azlanti Star Empire. Conflict permeates most aspects of vesk cultures, creating powerful militaristic empires devoted to the bloody worship of their warrior god Damoritosh. Their brutal history and militaristic values shape vesk, who often embrace conflict and value strength, duty, and a personal code of honor. Individual vesk are just as likely to apply these cultural values to other aspects of life besides battle, notably in business and sport, and some vesk might abandon or oppose the ruthless values enforced by the rulers of their home worlds entirely. It's up to each vesk to claim their role as a conqueror or a collaborator—or something else entirely. If you want a character who's duty bound, brave, and stoic, you should play a vesk. - Relish the chance to prove yourself in combat against worthy opponents. - Have a strong sense of duty and honor. - Surprise your companions with tenderness and emotional outbursts in private. - Respect and fear your brutal reputation but appreciate your strength as an ally. - Mistake your stoicism for heartlessness. - Fear facing you in battle. Vesk stand up to 7 feet tall, are generally muscular, and are covered in tough, scaly skin. Spiky horns grow from their skulls and form bony “beards” along their jaws that sometimes extend down their spines to their powerful tails. Vesk scales are generally shades of green but can also display vibrant, mottled coloration that's sometimes considered an indicator of health and attractiveness. Vesk adopted tech weapons early in their history but retain the brutal claws and teeth of natural predators. They take great care in grooming and painting their scales and claws to showcase their personal style and intimidate others. Vesk society is highly organized and militaristic. Vesk first dwelled on a single planet but quickly spread to other worlds in their system. Today, the name for these conquered worlds is the Veskarium, with each given a number to mark their distance from the sun and order of conquest (such as Vesk-3 or Vesk-8). Vesk Prime, the vesk ancestral home, is the seat of Veskarium government and the heart of their culture. Most vesk in the Veskarium venerate Damoritosh the Conqueror, god of duty and war, and his army of battle saints. In life, the saints were mortal paragons who embodied vesk cultural values and attained divinity after earning Damoritosh's blessing; now they're worshipped alongside their deity. A typical vesk faces all of life's struggles armed with ideals of personal honor and strength, recognizing that not all conflicts occur on the battlefield. Many vesk find comfort in rigid systems of law, while others hold their personal sense of morality above all else—in either case, most vesk don't hesitate to fight for what they believe is right. Even while fighting, most vesk apply a code to their actions, and conflicts within the Veskarium tend to be as disciplined as they are violent, stretching to accommodate opposing sides following the prescribed order of war. A typical vesk always respects their opponent and shuns cowardly tactics, such as executing prisoners or harming civilians. Popular Edicts battle honorably, keep private emotions in check, never show weakness to enemies Popular Anathema betray an ally, give up the fight Abazobari, Ahadigar, Asthonad, Dotralan, Evdokayo, Julukesh, Katara, Obozaya, Oromeras, Radokama, Sarangari, Sobok, Terikoraz, Vindasorn, Yuluzak Vesk Mechanics Constitution, Strength, Free Common Vesk One regional language of your choice Additional languages equal to your Intelligence modifier (if it's positive). Choose from the list of common languages and any other languages to which you have access (such as the languages prevalent on your home world). You can see in dim light as though it were bright light, and you ignore the concealed condition due to dim light.


--- [Veskarium - StarfinderWiki] ---
Veskarium The Veskarium is a militant interplanetary empire located primarily in the Ghavaniska system in Near Space. The Ghavaniska system is the nearest inhabited solar system to the Pact Worlds, while the Veskarium is named after its dominant species, the vesk.12 Holdings The Veskarium's core territory consists of seven of the eight planets orbiting the star Ghavaniska, their moons, and the space station Conqueror's Forge.3 The only exception is the planet Pulonis (formerly Vesk-6), which threw off its vesk occupation and joined the Pact Worlds government in 325 AG.4 Except for Vesk Prime, homeworld of the vesk and the Veskarium's seat of power, the planets in the Veskarium officially have no names, only numbers correlating to their distance from the sun. Outside of the Ghavaniska system, the Veskarium also controls a few colonies scattered across both Near Space and the Vast.3 History The historical records of the vesk suffer from the same amnesia due to the Gap as everyone else, with an exact recent history that only stretches back a bit over three centuries. Records from before the Gap survive, however, and give a clear understanding of the species beginnings as a small, regional power on the planet Vesk Prime.5 The founder of the Veskarium was Eshovok, a powerful warlord who saw the danger of unending civil wars and set out to unite all vesk tribes under his rule. After defeating his rivals, Eshovok proclaimed himself emperor of the Veskarium and began the conquest of his entire home planet. Under the banner of their chief deity, Damoritosh, Eshovok declared war on the two other intelligent species of Vesk Prime, the skerasken and the caiagaras.5 Dominating Vesk Prime In the effort to conquer their entire homeworld, the Veskarium first attacked the skerasken, a species of jackal-faced arthropods. As the Veskarium's legions began pushing the skeraskens back, their enemies tried to surrender, but the emperor refused to allow them to live and potentially seek revenge against the vesk in the future. The skeraskens were therefore exterminated within a few generations and their lands were incorporated into the Veskarium. The vesk then turned their attention to the caiagaras of the Eastern Wastes who had witnessed the skerasken genocide and refused to suffer the same fate. While the caiagaras moved their cities underground with magic and sealed the entrances to the caverns, the vesk pressed on, conquering the caiagaras' surface holdings and razing their underground cities. After centuries of struggle, the caiagaras were defeated, and the Veskarium had control of all of Vesk Prime.5 Conquest of the Ghavaniska system With Vesk Prime fully under the control of the Veskarium, the vesk next turned their attention to the other planets of their solar system. After developing their first starships, the vesk conquered the second planet in the system in 3226 PG, and marked their conquest by renaming their homeworld Vesk Prime and the conquered planet (originally called Iji) Vesk-2. In 161 PG, the Veskarium finished conquering the entire system.67 After the Gap When the Gap ended, the Veskarium's military records provided a clear snapshot of the pre-Gap situation, allowing the Veskarium to quickly contact the existing vesk garrisons on the conquered planets and reassert its control within ten years. For some reason, in 3 AG, Triune's Signal did not reach the Veskarium, which had no access to the Drift until explorers from the Golarion system made first contact in 12 AG.8 The vesk initially warmly welcomed the visitors, but soon started to see the Golarion system as their next potential conquest. Relations deteriorated until the Veskarium attacked Triaxus in 36 AG, initiating the Silent War in the Battle of Aledra. The conflict led the various planets of the Golarion system to unite into a single government known as the Pact Worlds. The war lasted for approximately 250 years, and was mostly marked by border skirmishes, since neither side wanted to risk a full-scale invasion.8 In 291 AG, both the Veskarium and the Pact Worlds were invaded by an extrasolar enemy known as the Swarm. This mutual threat forced the Veskarium to negotiate an armistice with the Pact Worlds that ended the Silent War. Together, the Veskarium and the Pact Worlds drove out the Swarm, but since the threat of the Swarm endures, the armistice remains in effect.19 More recently, the indigenous inhabitants of the planet Vesk-6, who had long fought against the occupying forces of the Veskarium, finally gained control and renamed their home Pulonis. Their newly elected leaders petitioned the Pact Worlds government for membership, which was granted to them in a tight vote in 325 AG.4 Government The Veskarium is a unitary, autocratic military junta, where the military and government are one and the same. Individual planets have no devolved powers whatsoever, and are directly ruled by the military.8 Courts are military tribunals, combat troops enforce laws, and local representatives only serve an advisory role to the military.10 Each planet in the Veskarium is ruled by a high despot who resides in a building located in a key position that doubles as military base and governmental headquarters. Each high despot holds absolute authority over their planet and delegates power to the bureaucracy as necessary. All of the high despots as a group form the Council of Despots that rules the entire Veskarium from the Imperial Palace. High despots serve for life, which historically has meant until they die in battle, though this has become rarer in recent years due to the state of peace since the end of the war with the Swarm. If the council is ever deadlocked, the high despot of Vesk Prime can cast a deciding vote. Vesk colonies have a variety of governing styles, and their rulers are neither considered high despots nor members of the Council of Despots.10 The emperor In times of war, the Council of Despots appoints an emperor to serve as head of state and commander-in-chief of the military. The decision of whom to choose as the emperor must be unanimous. The emperor serves as a figurehead for the war effort and citizens' loyalty, and has a vote on the Council of Despots. In the rare periods of peace, the emperor customarily abdicates and their duties and responsibilities return to the Council of Despots.10 Vesk see themselves as honourable, and view their subjects as inferior but strive to provide them with high standards of living.2 The military The Veskarium military is one single force without separate branches of service. Within the unified command structure, a few specialised divisions exist: Directive 9 (military intelligence), the Division of Criminal Extirpation (law enforcement and peacekeeping) and Division of Disloyal Organizations (anti-partisan operations). While any Veskarium citizen can join the army, the vast majority are vesk, whose most common job is a military career. Even though society and recruits alike view the military as a meritocracy, in truth family status and connections matter much more than prowess when it comes to promotions. Most soldiers join the army for life, hoping for a glorious death in battle. At any time, they can take the Soldier's Due, a tradition in which a warrior is honourably discharged and rewarded with their military-issue armor and weapons. Many such discharged soldiers continue to serve the Veskarium in other capacities, such as mercenaries.1011 Currency The Veskarium's currency is the imperial credit, which is equal in value to the Pact Worlds credit. The two are largely interchangeable in international trade, though the Pact Worlds credit is not always accepted in rural areas in the Veskarium.11 Foreign relations Since the war against the Swarm began in 291 AR, the Veskarium has been in a tenuous alliance with their former enemy, the Pact Worlds.1 Although trade between the two governments flourishes, their relationship remains strained. Many vesk are uncomfortable with the peace, and are once again calling for war and conquest.8 Within the Ghavaniska system, the zilbrees alone have not been conquered by the vesk, due to their territory lying deep within the star Ghavaniska. The Veskarium is in the process of negotiating with the zilbrees to integrate them into the empire, offering them protection in exchange for their technology. It is speculated that the zilbrees have nothing to gain by becoming the vesk's protectorate, and that some vesk generals are delaying the peace talks so they could develop starships to attack the zilbrees' home deep inside the sun. In the meantime, the Veskarium has been keeping information about the zilbrees secret from outsiders, even their Pact World allies.12 The Veskarium colony Najin-Korozayas, unknowingly built near territory controlled by the Azlanti Star Empire, lasted for a decade before being destroyed by the Azlanti, its populace enslaved and its resources plundered. Since then, the Veskarium has been keeping their distance from the territory of the Star Empire, whose navy is suspected to rival those of the Pact Worlds and Veskarium combined.13 Religion Damoritosh has traditionally been the Veskarium's patron deity.14 References - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Unveiling a New Starfinder Race: The Vesk!. Paizo blog, 2017 . - ↑ 2.0 2.1 Core Rulebook, 469. Paizo Inc., 2017 . - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Core Rulebook, 53. Paizo Inc., 2017 . - ↑ 4.0 4.1 Galaxy Guide, 5. Paizo Inc., 2025 . - ↑ 5.0 5.1 5.2 Near Space, 10. Paizo Inc., 2020 . - ↑ Near Space, 11. Paizo Inc., 2020 . - ↑ Near Space, 16. Paizo Inc., 2020 . - ↑ 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 Near Space, 12. Paizo Inc., 2020 . - ↑ Core Rulebook, 428. Paizo Inc., 2017 . - ↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 Near Space, 13. Paizo Inc., 2020 . - ↑ 11.0 11.1 Near Space, 14. Paizo Inc., 2020 . - ↑ “Deep Cultures” in Solar Strike, 52. Paizo Inc., 2019 . - ↑ Core Rulebook, 495. Paizo Inc., 2017 . - ↑ Core Rulebook, 484. Paizo Inc., 2017 .


--- [Welcome To The Veskarium! | Paizo Blog] ---
The galaxy of the Starfinder RPG expands with this month’s release of Starfinder Near Space, which details dozens of planets and civilizations in this region of the galaxy and includes new starships and a wide selection of character option as well. Among the many worlds located within Near Space are not only the allied planets of the Pact Worlds, but also the core worlds of the Veskarium, the interplanetary empire of the warlike vesk. While vesk are a relatively common sight in the Pact Worlds and throughout the galaxy, their home system has remained something of a mystery. But no longer! Starfinder Near Space takes us into the Veskarium for the first time, so let’s take a brief look at the vesk empire and its diverse worlds. The Veskarium Centered around a blue sun called Ghavaniska, the Veskarium is an autocratic empire and military dictatorship with one overarching goal: conquest. Long before the onset of the Gap, the vesk conquered all of the planets of their home system, renaming these worlds after themselves and numbering them in order of their distance from the sun. When the Gap ended, the vesk turned to their well-organized pre-Gap military archives and set about relearning the boundaries of their ancient empire and re-establishing the Veskarium’s dominion over their subject worlds in less than a decade. Vesk dominate the empire and make up the majority of its inhabitants, but the Veskarium encompasses dozens of planets, and their native inhabitants enjoy full citizenship in the empire. Vesk believe they have an obligation to care for their conquered vassals, and while the Veskarium’s laws are strict and draconian, standards of living are high, and most residents of the empire, vesk or not, are content with their lives and support—or at least tolerate—their government. Vesk Prime The closest planet to the sun, Vesk Prime is the vesk home world and the imperial capital of the Veskarium. It is the most densely populated world in the empire, with large, modern cities—like the sprawling metropolis and vast military installation Command Prime—surrounded by huge tracts of cultivated lands and wilderness reserves. Under the leadership of High Despot Vindaskayo Swarmripper, Vesk Prime remains the center of the empire, both politically and culturally. The Veskarium originated here in ages past, when the vesk defeated the other native sapient species of their home world, the caiagaras and the skeraskens, and first proclaimed their empire before expanding to the other worlds of the Ghavaniska system. Vesk-2 Ghavaniska’s second planet, a calm, watery world with a shallow, salty ocean covering much of its surface, was the Veskarium’s first extraplanetary conquest. The squid-like ijtikris are native to Vesk-2, and after centuries of vesk rule, they are highly integrated into Veskarium society. Strange, ancient ruins that predate ijtikri culture dot the scattered islands of Vesk-2 and are an enduring mystery on the planet, hinting at the possibility of another sapient species that inhabited the world in the distant past. Ijtikris have an instinctive aversion to these sites, but vesk have no such compunctions and have explored many of them. The flooded swamp-forests of Vesk-2 are also a center of domesticated defrex ranching in the Veskarium. Vesk-3 A garden world with expansive forests, abundant nutrients from constant volcanic activity, and warm, shallow oceans, Vesk-3 is saturated in a constant, rainy spring. Ostensibly a paradise, Vesk-3 remains one of the Veskarium’s most difficult planets to rule, thanks to its indigenous population of ever-helpful skittermanders. Although they far outnumber their vesk overlords, skittermanders generally don’t seem to understand the significance of their conquest. Their obsequious nature grates on the practical-minded vesk, who commonly joke that skittermanders will eagerly “help” tear down your engine unless you eat them, and even then they’ll stick around and help chew your food. As a result, vesk presence on the planet is mostly confined to one of the planet’s two primary continents, leaving skittermanders largely autonomous in their native lands. Vesk-4 Nicknamed “the Glutton” by early vesk conquerors for its tendency to pull celestial bodies—such as its own moons—into its powerful gravitational field, Vesk-4 is a dense planet with a single landmass teeming with lush jungles, sodden swamplands, and volcanic mountain ranges. Home to an indigenous species of sapient mole‑like creatures called talphi, Vesk-4 is an important hub for mining useful minerals, left behind by millennia of meteorites crashing into the planet. Recently, however, the Veskarium has begun harvesting crystals that can be refined to power solarian weapons, and Vesk-4 now supports an academy specializing in training solarians. Life on Vesk‑4 is generally difficult. Citizens lead austere, regimented lives focused on labor and service, and seismic activity, radiation, and frequent meteorite collisions constantly threaten settlements. Vesk-5 Encircled by bands of red and purple gases, Vesk-5 is the largest planet and the only gas giant in the Ghavaniska system. The planet’s atmosphere surges with powerful lightning storms and pounding hydrogen rain, and its dense, unstable core constantly ejects valuable ore that the Veskarium monopolizes. Nevertheless, daring adventurers called stormrunners dodge military patrol craft and brave Vesk-5’s dangerous atmosphere to “mine” these profitable minerals using gigantic energy nets deployed from their ships, causing the Veskarium to brand them outlaws—a label that many stormrunners adopt as a badge of honor. Vesk-5’s only native sapient species, formians, reside in orbiting hives in the planet’s small, rocky ring system, and most other inhabitants live on the gas giant’s largest moons. Vesk-6 Though distant from the sun, Vesk-6 is an inexplicably warm jungle world with relatively low gravity, towering trees, gigantic insects, and other titanic flora and fauna that struggle ruthlessly with one another to survive. A powerful magnetosphere helps the planet retain its atmosphere, but the magnetic winds it generates devastate many forms of technology, with the result that Vesk-6’s surface remains mostly untamed. The planet’s dominant sapient species, the catlike pahtras, initially resisted the vesk invasion, but they were eventually conquered and incorporated into the Veskarium. Most pahtra nation-states signed treaties with the Veskarium that grant them an unusual amount of autonomy, but some groups of pahtra guerillas continue to battle vesk peacekeepers for the liberation of their home world. Vesk-7 and Vesk-8 The distant, icy worlds of Vesk-7 and Vesk-8 are the outermost planets of the Ghavaniska system, and a posting to either of them is usually a punishment for dishonored vesk or those exiled for controversial or troublesome political views. The two worlds share virtually the same orbit, though Vesk-7’s orbit is retrograde, and twice each planetary year, the planets’ shared moon, Traverse, transfers its orbit from one world to the other. Magical gates linking the planets and their moon activate at these times, allowing the native kothamas of Vesk-7 and Vesk-8 to travel between them. Vesk-7 hosts a small, nominally independent city of people who want to leave their pasts behind them, while Vesk-8 holds a penal colony established to mine the planet’s valuable shimmerstone deposits. Conqueror’s Forge Initially constructed to address a perceived technological gap between the Veskarium and the Pact Worlds, this massive space platform and shipyard—with a distinctive silhouette reminiscent of a doshko—has the full status of one of the Veskarium’s core worlds, with its own high despot in command. Equipped with banks of mighty thrusters (and even a powerful Drift engine, if rumors are to be believed), Conqueror’s Forge travels throughout Veskarium space, collecting resources for research and production, manufacturing weapons and starships for the Veskarium’s military, and selling its technological developments to other species to fund additional research. One section of the station, officially denied by the Veskarium government and known only by the codename Vesk-9, is devoted to confidential research, advanced experimentation, and other secret projects that remain classified to all but those with the highest security clearances. I hope you’ve enjoyed this glimpse of the worlds and peoples of the Veskarium. If you’d like to learn more about the Veskarium (or other Near Space cultures), pick up a copy of Starfinder Near Space and keep your sensors locked on the Paizo blog and Paizo’s Twitch stream for more previews and behind-the-scenes details of Near Space and Starfinder! Robert G. McCreary Starfinder Creative Director


--- [Starfinder Timeline and Events] ---
| Bober | | 3 people marked this as a favorite. | With SF2 coming out, I'm trying to compile a detailed timeline in order to help my players understand the universe a little bit better (especially players new to SF lore). I'm having a real hard time finding data, with Core Rulebook and Near Space being pretty much the only source of data. I haven't played most AP, so I don't know much about those events and when they happened. Same goes for the Drift Crisis, which is stated lasted 1 year but not which year exactly (315? 316? 317?). If some other nerd has already done this, or if any of you has more knowledge about this, I'd love to get some help. Here's what I got so far: 0 AG - The Gap Ends 3 AG - Triune reveals itself and gifts the Drift technology to the universe 7 AG - Bone Sages attack Absalom 10 AG - Veskarium completes its reconquest of Ghavaniska system 12 AG - First contact between Golarion system and Veskarium 13 AG - A colony of vesk renunciants is established on Gaskar III 36 AG to 291 AG - War between Golarion system and Veskarium breaks out (Battle of Aledra) 41 AG - The Absalom Pact is signed 47 AG - The first Conqueror's Forge is completed (Veskarium) 67 AG - Stardust Plague (any clue how long this lasts?) 83 AG - First contact with Shirren - [big lack of information]- 154 AG - Androids gain citizen rights - [big lack of information]- 223 AG - Burning Archipelago discovered 240 AG - First contact with Kasathas 259 AG - First contact between Vesk and Azlanti Star Empire, Najin-Korozayas is destroyed 269 AG - First contact between Pact Worlds and Azlanti Star Empire 287 AG - Lashuntas and Formians sign peace deal 291 AG to 296 AG - The Swarm attacks (Swarm War), Conqueror's Forge is destroyed by the Swarm 296 AG - Dreadnaught Emperor Dmarangor I abdicates at the end of the Swarm War 301 AG - Morilux is founded - [big lack of information]- 316 AG - First Seeker elected, Scoured Stars incident 317 AG - SFS launched a rescue mission after the Scoured Stars incident 318 AG - SFS fights the Jinsul menace unleashed after the rescue mission 319 AG - Smear campaign against the First Seeker 320 AG - New First Seeker election 321 AG - Digital attack across the Pact Worlds (SFS gets involved) | John Mangrum | | 3 people marked this as a favorite. | Quick n' dirty additions, and trying to avoid any major spoilers: Pre-Gap dates assume the Gap began somewhere in the 4700s AG, just for a baseline. If you disagree, just slide those numbers around to taste. Millions (or hundreds of thousands? Sources contradict) of years ago: The Sivv Dominion uses its advanced technology to aggressively spread across the galaxy, stopped only when the Kishalee empire, possessing its own incredible technologies, cripples the sivv empire in a stunning act of sabotage. The Sivv Dominion collapses and is soon wiped out by its surviving enemies. Hundreds of Thousands of Years Ago: The act that doomed the Sivv Dominion also sent the Kishalee Empire into a long slide of cultural decay. Eventually it, too, collapses. The Sivv and the Kishalee are eventually forgotten by history, remembered only in the prehistoric legends of other species. Unknown Pre-Gap: Eox fires a doomsday weapon that destroys the planets Damiar and Iovo, creating the Diaspora. The weapon also backfires, devastating Eox. The handful of native elebrians who survive the initial cataclysm turn to undeath to persist. Unknown Pre-Gap: The planet Golarion's first great human empire, Azlant, uses magical portals to explore the galaxy, establishing colonies on Akiton and New Thespera. Unknown Pre-Gap: The Oatia elves of Castrovel study the stars, making advanced discoveries, and eventually use portals to depart to distant worlds, eventually spreading to numerous worlds and possibly even other galaxies. Circa 10,100 Pre-Gap: Earthfall. An asteroid pulled from the Diaspora smashes into Golarion, obliterating Azlant and ushering the planet into the "Age of Darkness." Azlanti colonies elsewhere in the galaxy, including those on Akiton and New Thespera, are suddenly and permanently cut off from home. Unknown Pre-Gap: The Azlanti humans of Akiton wage war against the planet's resident witchwyrds. The witchwyrds are outnumbered. The majority stay and fight the Azlanti, eventually evolving into shobhads. A smaller population negotiates a peace with the Azlanti. The smallest percentage develops starflight and flees. Of these, those who remain nomadic are the witchwyrds we know today. Some settle on a new world, Kasath, and eventually evolve into kasathas. The Azlanti humans gradually become the Hylki. Much of this history will be forgotten or suppressed by the start of the Gap. Circa 9,160 Pre-Gap: A massive starship from a distant galaxy crashes into Golarion. Its wreckage and the alien creatures and technology that trickle out of it fascinate the local human barbarians, who call the wreck the Silver Mount. This event introduces androids to the galaxy and releases small populations of some creatures collected on Akiton and Castrovel into the wild. Circa 9,000 Pre-Gap: Gnomes first emerge on Golarion. Unknown Pre-Gap: Eshovok the Far-Sighted unites the vesk and establishes their empire, the Veskarium. The Veskarium wages a war of extermination against the other two sapient species on their planet. Eventually, the Veskarium rules the planet, unopposed. Unknown Pre-Gap: The deity Kadrical first arrives in the system modern Pact Worlds explorers call the Scoured Stars and adopts the system as his domain. Kadrical first manifests a powerful field, the Godshield, to protect the jinsul species from the ravages of their sun. Unknown Pre-Gap: Under Kadrical's watchful eye, izalguuns develop technology considered advanced even in modern times. Several other species in the Scoured Stars unite to form a blended civilization; much much later this civilization will call itself the Kreiholm Freehold. Jinsuls serve as Kadrical's enforcers, maintaining the peace and guarding against external threats. Unknown Pre-Gap: A mysterious "darkness" from space threatens the Scoured Stars. Kadrical responds by engulfing the entire trinary star system in the Godshield, cutting the planets off from each other and the rest of the galaxy. Unknown Pre-Gap: Centuries later, Kadrical slips into a torpor and the Godshield falls. The eight indigenous civilizations of the Scoured Stars all flee, scattering across the galaxy by various means. One of Kadrical's heralds attempts to stop the exodus, but succeeds only in scattering it. Unknown Pre-Gap: Not long after (no more than a couple of centuries later), Kadrical briefly wakes, discovers that he has been abandoned, and sends an artifact out into space, each one intended as a beacon to ask its civilization to return. None respond. Circa 4,800 Pre-Gap: On Golarion, Aroden raises the Starstone from the bottom of the Inner Sea and builds a great capital city around it: Absalom. This ushers in the "Age of Enthronement." 3,226 Pre-Gap: Having developed interplanetary travel, the Veskarium invades and conquers the neighboring world in their system, Iji. The Veskarium renames the planet Vesk-2. Circa 200 Pre-Gap: Aroden dies and prophecy is forever broken in the multiverse. 161 Pre-Gap: The Veskarium completes its initial conquest of all eight planets in their solar system. Circa 100 Pre-Gap: The Russian Revolution of 1917 takes place in a distant galaxy. 0 Pre-Gap: The Gap begins, marking the end of the reliable historical record in the Golarion system. The start of the Gap is porous, with no clear and singular cutoff point. The physical loss of Golarion post-Gap means that most historical records do not survive, leaving a tattered history that grows even sparser as the Gap approaches. Surviving records of dubious authenticity suggest that Golarion was in the early stages of technological society, with isolated usage of aircraft and orbital vehicles. The ancestors of space goblins are reputed to have snuck onboard a spacefaring vehicle and infested an orbital space station. The Pathfinder Society is active in this era, eventually inspiring the formation of the Starfinder Society. | John Mangrum | | 3 people marked this as a favorite. | The Gap (in no coherent order): * Golarion and other worlds in the Mataras system catch up with Verces and Bretheda, developing interplanetary and eventually interstellar travel. Various nations and worlds from the system establish colonies in nearby systems, often requiring the use of generational arkships. Some notable colonies include: * Hobgoblins, presumably from Tian Xia, establish an interstellar empire that the modern Gideron Authority claims as its own. The hobgoblin empire eventually collapses, for unknowable reasons. * A colony in the neighboring Marixah system, which brands itself the Marixah Republic after emerging from the Gap. * Explorers from the Mwangi Expanse use a magic portal to establish a colony now called Xibion. * Absalom Station is constructed and the Starstone relocated from Golarion's surface to the station's core. * Somehow, either through a fluke mutation or a blessing from Hylax, shirrens, a component of the Swarm, gain individuality. More later! | UpliftedBearBramble | Thank you for making this, it's helping me organize something for my new Starfinder players. Saying some of these names associated with the history of the Pact Worlds is very demanding. For most new players who know nothing about Starfinder, it's great to have a resource like this to give them a general idea of what's happened. | Justnobodyfqwl | Any update with 2e out? The DM's Guide + Galaxy Guide both have timelines of various sizes and scopes. I was able to read the DM's Guide and get a sense for the timeline of the Galaxy. I was also able to read the Galaxy Guide and get a sense for a bunch of things that are historically baffling, but by context clues I'm assuming are describing Starfinder 1e adventures.
