=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shell Helix Ultra Cup match report Kaizer Chiefs v Mamelodi Sundown 12]
Oct 12, 2019 · Kaizer Chiefs claimed their first Shell Helix Ultra Cup title after defeating Mamelodi Sundowns 4-2 at the FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
URL: https://www.kickoff.com/sa-news/premiership/shell-helix-ultra-cup-match-report-kaizer-chiefs-v-mamelodi-sundown-12-october-2019-20191012

[Kaizer Chiefs Beat Sundowns 4-2 To Win Shell Helix Ultra Cup Title]
Oct 12, 2019 · Kaizer Chiefs defeated Mamelodi Sundowns 4-2 in the Shell Helix Ultra Cup in a match played at the FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Amakhosi got all their goals in their first half through Castro (3) and Khama Billiat (1).
URL: https://news.pindula.co.zw/2019/10/12/kaizer-chiefs-beat-sundowns-4-2-to-win-shell-helix-ultra-cup-title/

[Kaizer Chiefs 4-2 Mamelodi Sundowns: Billiat and Castro haunt ...]
Oct 12, 2019 · Chiefs netted through former Masandawana players Leonardo Castro (hat-trick) and Khama Billiat, while Jose Meza and Gaston Sirino scored for Sundowns Kaizer Chiefs lifted the 2019 Shell Helix Ultra Cup after defeating Mamelodi Sundowns 4-2 at FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
URL: https://scoremates.com/en/news/Kaizer-Chiefs-4-2-Mamelodi-Sundowns-Billiat-and-Castro-haunt-Masandawana-753388

[2019-20 Kaizer Chiefs F.C. season - Wikipedia]
The 2019-20 season saw Kaizer Chiefs, a professional football club from Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa, compete in the South African Premier Division, in which they finished second, two points behind champions Mamelodi Sundowns. They also competed in the Nedbank Cup and Telkom Knockout, where they were eliminated in the last 16 and semi-final respectively.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019%E2%80%9320_Kaizer_Chiefs_F.C._season

[Kaizer Chiefs crowned 2019 Shell Helix Ultra Cup champions]
Oct 12, 2019 · ABSA Premiership log leaders Kaizer Chiefs were crowned champions of the 2019 Shell Helix Ultra Cup on Saturday afternoon. Chiefs thumped the inaugural winners of the competition Mamelodi Sundowns ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ncjPl1Bkdq4


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shell Helix Ultra Cup match report Kaizer Chiefs v Mamelodi Sundown 12] ---
Kaizer Chiefs claimed their first Shell Helix Ultra Cup title after defeating Mamelodi Sundowns 4-2 at the FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Tokelo Rantie made his long-awaited Masandawana debut as did full-back Harold Majadibodu, while Ernst Middendorp named a strong side for the clash, with Castro and Khama Billiat leading the line The duo combined to get the opener on nine minutes as Castro tapped into an empty net after Billiat cracked the post from a clear one-on-one opportunity whilst beating the offside trap. Castro grabbed a double on the half-hour mark with another tap-in from another Billiat effort which Reyaad Pieterse parried into the Colombian's path. Sundowns had nothing going good for them and there were dealt a blow three minutes before the break as Oupa Manyisa became the game's first casualty due to injury and was replaced by Hlompho Kekana. Masandawana's misery deepened on the stroke of halftime when Castro leaped high to nod into the bottom corner from Billiat's delivery to grab his hat-trick. A minuter later, Billiat got in on the act a minute later with a first-time volley past Pieterse following Castro's pin-point supply. Changes on and off the field at either end opened the second half as Jose Ali Meza and Tebogo Langerman ran out for Downs with Kgotso Moleko and Kabelo Mahlasela brought on for Chiefs. Masandawana reduced the tally after 60 minutes when Daniel Akpeyi parried Gaston Sirino's curl firmly into the path of Meza, who needed no second invitation. Akpeyi redeemed himself with a last-ditch palm from Kekana's header following a free-kick later on, upping pressure on Chiefs. Sundowns continued attacking near full-time, and netted a second through Sirino who fired home from the penalty spot in added time after Lakay went down in the area with the final kick of the game. The Amakhosi picked up their first ever Shell Helix Ultra Cup title to stand in good stead for Sunday's Macufe Cup battle with Bloemfontein Celtic. Teams: Chiefs: Akpeyi, Sasman, Cardoso, Blom, Zulu, Katsande, Baccus, Manyama, Zuma, Billiat, Castro. Subs: Bvuma, Moleko, Gordinho, Mphahlele, Matsheke, Ntshangase, Mahlasela, Kotei, Radbe, Lesako, Parker, Twala, Sifama, Gqezenele. Sundowns: Pieterse, Majadibudo, Lakay, Arendse, Coetzee, Seabi, Jali, Manyisa, Mkhulise, Ngoma, Rantie. Subs: Mweene, Ngcobo, Ngcongca, Affonso, Mdhluli, Langerman, Kekana, Sirino, Lukhubeni, Mkhuma, Meza, Vilakazi.


--- [Kaizer Chiefs Beat Sundowns 4-2 To Win Shell Helix Ultra Cup Title] ---
Kaizer Chiefs defeated Mamelodi Sundowns 4-2 in the Shell Helix Ultra Cup in a match played at the FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Amakhosi got all their goals in their first half through Castro (3) and Khama Billiat (1). Mamelodi Sundowns scored on the 60th minute through Meza and got their second through Sirino who fired home from the penalty spot in added time. Warriors winger, Billiat, assisted two of Castro’s goals as Chiefs won their first-ever Shell Helix Ultra Cup title.


--- [Kaizer Chiefs 4-2 Mamelodi Sundowns: Billiat and Castro haunt ...] ---
Kaizer Chiefs lifted the 2019 Shell Helix Ultra Cup after defeating Mamelodi Sundowns 4-2 at FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Ernst Middendorp unleashed an experienced team as Amakhosi looked to clinch the one-day competition for the first time. Middendorp's counterpart, Pitso Mosimane named a team made up mostly of fringe players as the Brazilians looked to defend the unofficial trophy. Chiefs dominated the match from the start with Khama Billiat and Leonardo Castro causing havoc for the Sundowns defence with their clever runs in the final third. It took only eight minutes for Castro to haunt his former side as he scored with a neat finish to make it 1-0 to Chiefs after Billiat's initial shot had hit the upright. Sundowns tried to push for the equalizing goal, but Nigeria international Daniel Akpeyi was in top form in the Chiefs goal-posts as he denied Lyle Lakay with a great save. Chiefs were 2-0 up when Castro scored with a close-range finish - beating Sundowns goalkeeper Reyaad Pieterse for the second time on the half-hour mark. The momentum was with Amakhosi with the half-time break approaching and Castro completed his hat-trick with a header to make it 3-0 in the 45th minute. Chiefs were running rampant and they managed to extend their lead on the stroke of half-time when Castro set-up Billiat, who beat Pieterse to make it 4-0 heading into the break. The Tshwane giants played a lot better in the second half with Mosimane having introduced Jose Meza at the interval. The Venezuelan attacker did make an impact as he beat Akpeyi from close range with a decent finish to make it 4-1 to Sundowns on the hour mark. Meza was looking lively for the reigning PSL champions as his effort from a tight angle narrowly missed the target with the Amakhosi defence exposed. Sundowns were awarded a late penalty after Akpeyi fouled Tebogo Langerman in the box and Gaston Sirino converted the resultant spot-kick to make it 4-2 in stoppage time. Chiefs then stood firm at the back and ultimately, they clinched the Shell Helix Ultra Cup for the first time after defeating Sundowns 4-2 on the day. Sundowns will be looking to avenge the defeat when they host Chiefs in a PSL match at Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Sunday, October 27.


--- [2019-20 Kaizer Chiefs F.C. season - Wikipedia] ---
The 2019–20 season saw Kaizer Chiefs, a professional football club from Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa, compete in the South African Premier Division, in which they finished second, two points behind champions Mamelodi Sundowns. They also competed in the Nedbank Cup and Telkom Knockout, where they were eliminated in the last 16 and semi-final respectively.


--- [Kaizer Chiefs crowned 2019 Shell Helix Ultra Cup champions] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
