=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Off Goes the Power Current Started by Thomas Edison]
Nov 14, 2007 · Today, Con Edison will end 125 years of direct current electricity service that began when Thomas Edison opened his Pearl Street power station on Sept. 4, 1882. Con Ed will now only provide alternating current, in a final, vestigial triumph by Nikola Tesla and George Westinghouse, Mr. Edison’s rivals who were the main proponents of alternating current in the AC/DC debates of the turn of the ...
URL: https://archive.nytimes.com/cityroom.blogs.nytimes.com/2007/11/14/off-goes-the-power-current-started-by-thomas-edison/

[In what year did the last of New York's DC electrical power customers to ...]
Nov 16, 2010 · The last of the Consolidated Edison (the New York city electrical utility) DC power lines was severed and replaced in 2007 -- over a century after alternating current became the prevailing electrical technology. Moreover, there are still a number of DC power systems in place in New York -- the NYC Subway's third-rail power supply chief among them.
URL: https://www.jaygarmon.net/2010/11/in-what-year-did-last-of-new-yorks-dc.html

[New York finally pulls plug on DC electricity - HeraldNet.com]
Nov 14, 2007 · NEW YORK — The city that Thomas Edison electrified 125 years ago has completed the transition from direct to alternating current, helping to erase the vestiges of a feud between giants of invention.
URL: https://www.heraldnet.com/news/new-york-finally-pulls-plug-on-dc-electricity/

[War of the currents - Wikipedia]
DC commercial power distribution systems declined rapidly in numbers throughout the 20th century; the last DC utility in New York City was shut down in 2007. [4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/War_of_the_currents

[Early New York City Power Plants - Edison Tech Center]
DC current was supplied to residential and commercial customers for 125 years after the Pearl Street Station. On November 14th, 2007 the last section of New York with DC was shut down and converted to AC power.
URL: https://edisontechcenter.org/NYC.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Off Goes the Power Current Started by Thomas Edison] ---
Today, Con Edison will end 125 years of direct current electricity service that began when Thomas Edison opened his Pearl Street power station on Sept. 4, 1882. Con Ed will now only provide alternating current, in a final, vestigial triumph by Nikola Tesla and George Westinghouse, Mr. Edison’s rivals who were the main proponents of alternating current in the AC/DC debates of the turn of the 20th century. The last snip of Con Ed’s direct current system will take place at 10 East 40th Street, near the Mid-Manhattan Library. That building, like the thousands of other direct current users that have been transitioned over the last several years, now has a converter installed on the premises that can take alternating electricity from the Con Ed power grid and adapt it on premises. Until now, Con Edison had been converting alternating to direct current for the customers who needed it — old buildings on the Upper East Side and Upper West Side that used direct current for their elevators for example. The subway, which has its own converters, also provides direct current through its third rail, in large part because direct current electricity was the dominant system in New York City when the subway first developed out of the early trolley cars. Despite the clear advantage of alternating current — it can be transmitted long distances far more economically than direct current — direct current has taken decades to phase out of Manhattan because the early backbone of New York’s electricity grid was built by Mr. Edison’s company, which had a running head start in the first decade before Mr. Tesla and Mr. Westinghouse demonstrated the potential of alternating current with the Niagara Falls power project. (Among the customers of Thomas Edison’s Pearl Street power plant on that first day was The New York Times, which observed that to turn on its lights in the building, “no matches were needed.”) But direct current clearly became uneconomical, as the short distances that it could be transmitted would have required a power station every mile or less, according to Joe Cunningham, an engineering historian. Thus alternating current in New York began in the outskirts — Queens, Bronx, Upper Manhattan and the suburbs. The direct current conversion in Lower Manhattan started in 1928, and an engineer then predicted that it would take 45 years, according to Mr. Cunningham. “An optimistic prediction since we still have it now,” he said. The man who is cutting the link today at 10 East 40th Street is Fred Simms, a 52-year veteran of the company. Why him? “He’s our closest link to Thomas Edison,” joked Bob McGee, a Con Ed spokesman.


--- [In what year did the last of New York's DC electrical power customers to ...] ---
Nikola Tesla's alternating current technology could transmit power efficiently over great distances, eliminating the need for a power station every mile or so down the road. The 1895 debut of Tesla's George Westinghouse-financed Niagara Falls alternating current hydroelectric plant irrevocably demonstrated AC power's practical superiority, and every major consumer electrical utility initiative since has been based around an alternating current infrastructure. That doesn't mean DC power went away overnight. There were still many vested interests in the DC power industry, and many customers already had DC power appliances and lighting they weren't eager to replace. Thus, many New York residences and businesses remained on DC power decades after AC power became the norm. But the actual longevity of consumer DC power in New York is still startling. In what year did the last of New York's DC electrical power customers to convert to AC service? The last of the Consolidated Edison (the New York city electrical utility) DC power lines was severed and replaced in 2007 -- over a century after alternating current became the prevailing electrical technology. Moreover, there are still a number of DC power systems in place in New York -- the NYC Subway's third-rail power supply chief among them. Con-Ed didn't begin the project to finally deprecate all DC consumer power transmission until 1998, and it took nine years to finally convert all the DC lines to AC. In many cases, those DC customers still have DC lighting and power inside their homes and shops, but Con-Ed converts the AC line-power to DC with an on-premise rectifier. In the early 20th century, many taller buildings were designed with DC elevator systems that are still in service. Several hotels were designed with DC power stations in their basements to run their lights and appliances. One of the major drawbacks of DC power --besides an inability to efficient transmit power over long distances -- was a lack of easy voltage transformation. Phased AC power lines can run to a transformer that steps down 440-volt current to 220-volt appliance-grade power, and then your local panel box can step that down to to the 110-volt lighting and outlet current. DC installations required wholly separate lines from the power plant to deliver different voltage currents, and retrofitting buildings designed around these DC limitations is prohibitively expensive. Thus, New York has a startling number of buildings with DC-powered elevators and and central light systems running alongside later-installed AC electrical systems. Thus, while the last New York DC power line was cut in 2007, DC power is alive and well in the Big Apple. That's not just some long-tenured tech, it's an immune to obsolescence example of the Truly Trivial.


--- [New York finally pulls plug on DC electricity - HeraldNet.com] ---
New York finally pulls plug on DC electricity Published 10:35 pm Wednesday, November 14, 2007 NEW YORK — The city that Thomas Edison electrified 125 years ago has completed the transition from direct to alternating current, helping to erase the vestiges of a feud between giants of invention. The Consolidated Edison utility on Wednesday pulled the plug on direct current service with the electric operations manager cutting a ceremonial cable on a Manhattan street. The change means that Con Ed now exclusively uses the alternating current system invented by Nikola Tesla. The utility is named for Edison, whose Pearl Street Station in Manhattan was the nation’s first central electrical power plant, serving 59 customers with direct current beginning in 1882. In the so-called “war of currents,” Edison feuded with Tesla and George Westinghouse over which transmission method to adopt — even going so far as to publicly electrocute animals in the hopes of showing AC was too dangerous. Alternating current proved superior as transformers allowed electricity to travel over long-distance wires. As AC gained prevalence over DC worldwide, Con Ed froze the development of the DC system in 1928 but continued to supply New York’s major DC customers with the existing system. A Con Ed spokesman said some of the city’s elevators still operate with DC using rectifiers that convert the utility’s AC service.


--- [War of the currents - Wikipedia] ---
The war of the currents was a series of events surrounding the introduction of competing electric power transmission systems in the late 1880s and early 1890s. It grew out of two lighting systems developed in the late 1870s and early 1880s: arc lamp street lighting running on high-voltage alternating current (AC), and large-scale low-voltage direct current (DC) indoor incandescent lighting being marketed by Thomas Edison's company. In 1886, the Edison system was faced with new competition: an alternating current system initially introduced by George Westinghouse's company that used transformers to step down from a high voltage so AC could be used for indoor lighting. Using high voltage allowed an AC system to transmit power over longer distances from more efficient large central generating stations. As the use of AC spread rapidly with other companies deploying their own systems, the Edison Electric Light Company claimed in early 1888 that high voltages used in an alternating current system were hazardous, and that the design was inferior to, and infringed on the patents behind, their direct current system.
In the spring of 1888, a media furor arose over electrical fatalities caused by pole-mounted high-voltage AC lines, attributed to the greed and callousness of the arc lighting companies that operated them. In June of that year Harold P. Brown, a New York electrical engineer, claimed the AC-based lighting companies were putting the public at risk using high-voltage systems installed in a slipshod manner. Brown also claimed that alternating current was more dangerous than direct current and tried to prove this by publicly killing animals with both currents, with technical assistance from Edison Electric. The Edison company and Brown colluded further in their parallel goals to limit the use of AC with attempts to push through legislation to severely limit AC installations and voltages. Both also colluded with Westinghouse's chief AC rival, the Thomson-Houston Electric Company, to make sure the first electric chair was powered by a Westinghouse AC generator.
By the early 1890s, the war was winding down. Further deaths caused by AC lines in New York City forced electric companies to fix safety problems. Thomas Edison no longer controlled Edison Electric, and subsidiary companies were beginning to add AC to the systems they were building. Mergers reduced competition between companies, including the merger of Edison Electric with their largest competitor, Thomson-Houston, forming General Electric in 1892. Edison Electric's merger with their chief alternating current rival brought an end to the war of the currents and created a new company that now controlled three quarters of the US electrical business. Westinghouse won the bid to supply electrical power for the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893 and won the major part of the contract to build Niagara Falls hydroelectric project later that year (partially splitting the contract with General Electric). DC commercial power distribution systems declined rapidly in numbers throughout the 20th century; the last DC utility in New York City was shut down in 2007.


--- [Early New York City Power Plants - Edison Tech Center] ---
The History of Electrification: New York City Historic Power Plants | | Pearl Street Station 1882 The Pearl Street Station was the first central power plant in the US, it provided DC power to clients in the immediate vicinity. The station grew to serve over 500 customers in just two years. For Thomas Edison the station was an important early achievement early in his career and set a precedent for urban power station models. The station burnt down but one of the dynamos was saved and is located in Dearborn, MI. Thomas Edison's DC legacy ran strong in the New York City area for many years while other areas of the country invested in AC systems. More about the Pearl Street Station: More on the Pearl Street Station (IEEE article) > More on the Pearl Street Station (Schenectady Museum article) > See the dynamo from Pearl Street at the Henry Ford Museum in Michigan (Museum's site here) > DC Legacy: There were many residences in NYC which were supplied with both DC and AC current. Some outlets in apartments were DC while others were AC and they looked the same. Many people burned out appliances using the wrong outlets. DC current was supplied to residential and commercial customers for 125 years after the Pearl Street Station. On November 14th, 2007 the last section of New York with DC was shut down and converted to AC power. Left: Edison's "Long-legged Mary-ann" generator from 1879, this dynamo was improved upon before more efficient designs were employed in the Pearl Street Station. | The Subway: The New York City subway system is marvel in itself. It runs on DC power and is one of the largest subway systems in the world. It carries over 1.7 billion people a year and has 468 stations. The underground subway was started in 1904. The above ground 'elevated rail' transportation is older (1867). Traditionally DC motors have been the most efficient way move heavy loads. In the illustration to the right a 15.5 ft wide subway tunnel in Brooklyn contains three rails. Most subway systems in the world today use a third-rail system. Learn more about subways and light rail > Learn more about the history of New York City subway > | | | | Subway Power System: Thomas Edison held a patent for a third rail system to supply power to rail cars from 1882. Subway cars still run on direct current (600 volts). AC power from the grid is converted to DC using synchronous converters and until recently, mercury arc rectifiers. The last of the arc rectifiers were replaced in the 1990s after almost 100 years of service. Alternating current is distributed through oil-filled cables to substations around the subway system and converted. During most of the 20th century the NYC subway got its power from three stations which made 25 Hz AC power. 11,000 Volts was stepped down to 400 volts and converted to 600 volts DC for the trains. For a detailed article on NYC's subway power system see the article by Bernard S. Greenberg here > New York subway cars were manufactured by a number of companies including: St. Louis Car Company and Budd Company. Newer cars are made by Bombardier Transportation, Alstom and Kawasaki Heavy Industries. AMNY article on subway car history > Left: today New York's subways still use a third rail system | Other important historic power plant sitesRelated Pages: Article by M.W. Sources: Interview with Tom Blalock. Edison Tech Center. 2014 nycsubway.org The Guardian New York Times IEEE "AC, DC and Subway Power" by Bernard S. Greenberg.
