=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Shanti S. Gupta - Wikipedia]
After briefly working at Bell Labs, Gupta joined the faculty of Purdue University in 1962. At the time, statistics was part of the department of mathematics. In 1968, he became the founding head of Purdue's newly established department of statistics, a position he held until 1995. [4] During his tenure, he transformed the department into a globally recognized center for statistical research ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shanti_S._Gupta

[Shanti Swarup Gupta (1925 - 2002) - Biography - University of St Andrews]
Jan 11, 2002 · He also held visiting lectureships at Stanford University, the University of California at Berkeley and the Technical University of Darmstadt in Germany. In 1962 he was appointed as Professor of Statistics and Mathematics at Purdue University, a position he held until his death.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Gupta/

[Shanti S. Gupta - Department of Statistics - Purdue University]
Shanti S. Gupta Professor Shanti S. Gupta was born in Saunasi, Mainpuri, India, on January 25, 1925. After completing a master's degree in mathematics at the University of Delhi and several years of teaching there, he came to the United States as a Fulbright Scholar in 1953.
URL: https://www.stat.purdue.edu/giving/celebrating.html

[Shanti Swarup Gupta (1925-2002): A Tribute - Taylor & Francis Online]
During 1961-62, he held a visiting position as Associate Professor at Stanford University and in the Fall of 1962 he joined the Division of Mathematical Sciences at Purdue University as a Professor of Mathematics and Statistics.
URL: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/01966324.2009.10737746

[Institute of Mathematical Statistics | Anirban's Angle: Remembering ...]
Anirban DasGupta shares his memories of Shanti Gupta, a "quiet scholar, architect, and shepherd": Shanti Gupta devoted 40 years of his life to the foundation and nurturing of the statistics department at Purdue University, USA. He was a selfless soldier of the profession, an effective and yet gentle fighter.
URL: https://imstat.org/2024/02/15/anirbans-angle-remembering-shanti-gupta/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Shanti S. Gupta - Wikipedia] ---
Shanti Swarup Gupta (January 25, 1925 – February 24, 2002) was an Indian-American statistician who served as the founding head of the department of statistics at Purdue University. He is best known for his pioneering work in ranking and selection theory, a branch of statistics used to determine the "best" populations among a group of candidates.




--- [Shanti Swarup Gupta (1925 - 2002) - Biography - University of St Andrews] ---
Shanti Swarup Gupta Quick Info Saunasi, Mainpuri, India West Lafayette, Indiana, USA Biography Shanti Swarup Gupta was brought up and educated in India. He studied for a Master's Degree at the University of Delhi and then began teaching there. After several years, he was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship in 1953 which enabled him to read for a doctorate in the United States. He studied at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with Raj Chandra Bose as his thesis advisor. He was awarded his doctorate in 1956 for his thesis On a Decision Rule for a Problem in Ranking Means. He then began research in statistics at Bell Laboratories, in Allentown, eastern Pennsylvania. These Laboratories were set up to develop equipment and systems manufactured by AT&T but they became involved in a wide range of basic and applied research in different areas. For example in the year which Gupta was awarded his doctorate, three scientists at the Bell Laboratories were awarded a Nobel Prize in Physics for inventing the transistor.Gupta's first publications include the following with Milton Sobel: On a statistic which arises in selection and ranking problems (1957); On selecting a subset which contains all populations better than a standard (1958); On the distribution of a statistic based on ordered uniform chance variables (1958); and Selecting a subset containing the best of several binomial populations (1960). During these early years of his research he also published Moments of order statistics from a normal population (1959) written jointly with his Ph.D. supervisor, and the single authored paper Order statistics from the gamma distribution (1960). As an example we look briefly at the type of problems that are studied in On selecting a subset which contains all populations better than a standard. The idea is to look at populations and one standard population, all having the same type of distribution. One of the populations is 'at least as good as the standard population' for a particular parameter if the value of that parameter is at least as high in that population as in the standard one. The authors then investigate how, given a fixed probability , one can choose a subset of the populations so that the probability is at least that the subset contains all those at least as good as the standard population. A range of different distributions and parameters are discussed such as the populations all have normal distributions with the same variance and the parameter is the mean. Gupta publication record is exceptional containing over 200 items. Among these are two important books. The first of these is Multiple decision procedures: theory and methodology of selecting and ranking populations written jointly with S Panchapakesan and published in the Wiley Series in Probability and Mathematical Statistics in 1979. Khursheed Alam, reviewing the text, wrote:- This book contains a comprehensive collection of published literature in multiple decision theory, dealing with problems of ranking and selection. The book deals primarily with the subject of ranking and selection. However, a section of the book covers related areas, such as the estimation of ordered parameters. The material presented in the book has been properly arranged and carefully written so that the book serves as a textbook for graduate students as well as a reference book. The content of the book is not only pleasant to read but it is also motivating.The second important text is Multiple statistical decision theory: recent developments written jointly with Deng Yuan Huang and published in 1981. The same reviewer writes:- In this monograph the authors present a short discussion of the statistical theory of multiple decision rules with particular reference to the subject of ranking and selection.Gupta held academic posts at universities such as the University of Alberta and New York University where he worked at the Courant Institute. He also held visiting lectureships at Stanford University, the University of California at Berkeley and the Technical University of Darmstadt in Germany. In 1962 he was appointed as Professor of Statistics and Mathematics at Purdue University, a position he held until his death. At Purdue he founded the Department of Statistics in 1968 and served as the first Head of Department from its foundation until 1995. For his many contributions to statistics, Gupta was honoured by election as a fellow of several societies such as the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Statistical Association, and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics (for which he served a term as president). The Indian Statistical Association elected him to honorary membership. He also served as Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference. Gupta married Marianne Heinicke; they had one daughter Maya. References (show) - N Balakrishnan and K J Miescke, Preface: In Memory of Dr Shanti Swarup Gupta, J. Statist. Plann. Inference 136 (7) (2006), 1985. - J J Deely, Shanti S Gupta, J. Statist. Plann. Inference 136 (7) (2006), 1999-2003. - S Panchapakesan, Shanti Swarup Gupta : his life (1925-2002) and work, J. Statist. Plann. Inference 136 (7) (2006), 1986-1998. - S Panchapakesan and T J Santner, Shanti S Gupta : an appreciation, Amer. J. Math. Management Sci. 5 (3-4) (1985), 345-369. - Shanti S Gupta - career and accomplishments, in Advances in statistical decision theory and applications (Birkhäuser Boston, Boston, MA, 1997), xix--xl. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Shanti Swarup Gupta: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update November 2006 Last Update November 2006


--- [Shanti S. Gupta - Department of Statistics - Purdue University] ---
Shanti S. Gupta Professor Shanti S. Gupta was born in Saunasi, Mainpuri, India, on January 25, 1925. After completing a master's degree in mathematics at the University of Delhi and several years of teaching there, he came to the United States as a Fulbright Scholar in 1953. He received a doctorate in statistics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1956 and subsequently worked in statistics research at Bell Labs in Allentown, PA. Professor Gupta held teaching positions at the University of Alberta and the Courant Institute, New York University, as well as visiting appointments at Stanford University, the University of California-Berkeley, and the Technical University of Darmstadt, Germany. In 1968 he founded the Purdue University Department of Statistics and served as department head until 1995. He was a Professor of Statistics and Mathematics at Purdue University from 1962 until his death in 2002. His honors include Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, of the American Statistical Association, of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, as well as Erskine Fellow of the University of Canterbury in New Zealand, Honorary Fellow of the Indian Statistical Association, Special Chair in Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan. He was president of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics and Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference. He was a prominent scholar in the area of statistical ranking and selection. He was the author of more than 200 published articles and books and was the major advisor to 30 doctoral students. Professor Gupta's Ph.D. students include John J. Deely, Mrudulla Gnanadesikan, Austin M. Barron, Jerone N. Deverman, S. Panchapakesan, Gary C. McDonald, Klaus R. O. Nagel, Wen-Tao Huang, Thomas J. Santner, Deng-Yaun Huang, Raymond J. Carroll, Wing-Yue Wong, Ming-Wei Lu, Yoon-Kwai Leong, Roger L. Berger, Ashok K. Singh, Jason C. Hsu, Woo Chul Kim, Ping Hsiao, H. M. Yang, Lii-Yuh Leu, TaChen Liang, Joong Kweon Sohn, Sang Hyun Han, Sayaji N. Hande, Yuning Liao, Re-Bin Rau, Marcey L. Abate, Xun Lin and Jianjun Li. - Giving - Giving News - Anderson and Fischer Graduate Fellowship - George Casella Fund - Virgil L. Anderson Scholarship Fund - Burr Fund - L. J. Cote M.S. Excellence in Statistics Award - Statistics Gift Fund - Shanti S. Gupta Professorship Fund - Pillai Memorial Fund - David Moore Fund - William J. Studden Publication Award - General Colloquium Fund - Lucas Fund - Bob and Marjorie McLean Scholarship Fund - Prem S. Puri Memorial Fund - Myra Samuels Biostatistics Fund - Carroll Scholarship Award - Carroll Research Award - Herman Rubin Memorial Fund - Kidwell Graduate Student Excellence Fund - JK Ghosh Lecture


--- [Shanti Swarup Gupta (1925-2002): A Tribute - Taylor & Francis Online] ---
1 capture 18 Jul 2023 Jun JUL Aug 18 2022 2023 2024 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20230718161228/https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/01966324.2009.10737746


--- [Institute of Mathematical Statistics | Anirban's Angle: Remembering ...] ---
Anirban DasGupta shares his memories of Shanti Gupta, a “quiet scholar, architect, and shepherd”: Shanti Gupta devoted 40 years of his life to the foundation and nurturing of the statistics department at Purdue University, USA. He was a selfless soldier of the profession, an effective and yet gentle fighter. He had the nose of a hound, the energy of an athlete, and a dogged resilience in building a department in the US Midwest that earned the respect of the world. An architect and visionary, uncompromising on quality of work, a soft-spoken leader with incredible people skills: that is the Shanti Gupta I knew for 20 years. He was born in a remote, small village in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh in 1925. From modest beginnings, he did his formal education at Delhi University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he was an early and distinguished PhD student of Raj Chandra Bose. In time, he was the President of the IMS, Editor-in-Chief of the JSPI, an advisory member of the National Research Council, a special chaired professor at the Academia Sinica, an Erskine Fellow, and faculty member at Stanford, Berkeley, and the Courant Institute in New York. He was elected a Fellow of the IMS, the AAAS, and the ASA. At the time of his passing in 2002, he had 29 PhD students, including several who are now leaders of the profession. In 1968 he founded the Purdue University Department of Statistics, and served as department head until 1995. I could write a whole article just about the world-class people he recruited, using his hound-like senses. He never missed a colloquium talk, and could judge within the first 15 or 20 minutes, who had “substance.” Here is a very short list of people he hired in his department: Joop Kemperman, Herman Rubin, Sree Pillai, Prem Puri, Jim Berger, Bill Studden, Jayanta Ghosh, Andrew Rukhin, David Moore, Leon Gleser, Burgess Davis, Steve Lalley, Tom Sellke, Glen Baxter, Mary Ellen Bock, Virge Anderson, George McCabe, Wei-Liem Loh, Tony Cai, Dimitris Politis, Rebecca Doerge, Ker-Chau Li. During his 28-year tenure as Head of the Purdue statistics department, the best shining stars of the profession visited regularly: D. Basu, Susie Bayarri, Peter Bickel, Larry Brown, George Casella, Y. S. Chow, Morris DeGroot, Holger Dette, Persi Diaconis, Malay Ghosh, Len Haff, Iain Johnstone, Jack Kiefer, T.L. Lai, Lucien Le Cam, Carl Morris, Tony O’Hagan, Ingram Olkin, C.R. Rao, Christian Robert, Jerry Sacks, Pranab Sen, Bill Strawderman, Bob Wijsman, Michael Woodroofe, Grace Yang, and numerous others. During this period, the department became (and remained, until the end of his tenure in 1995) ranked seventh nationally; statistics faculty were made Sloane Fellows, Guggenheim scholars, IMS Presidents, COPSS award winners, IMS special invited and Medallion lecturers, ASA Presidents, editors of several of the Annals… Purdue University Honorary DSc degrees were given to some prominent leaders of the profession. Shanti had his focus on one dot on the wall: become and remain a top-10 department in the USA. The Purdue statistics department was his family, and he was about the best “father” possible. Selfless, responsible, societally ambitious, encouraging of the “cream,” not afraid to trim. He maintained wide international networks to know quickly who to recruit. He launched the Purdue International Symposia, co-chairing it from 1976 to 1997, and it became the most prominent international conference in statistics and probability after the Berkeley symposia folded. His publications were many, including several well-known books; he was a household name in selecting and estimating largest means, or a group of largest means. These have potential for concrete use in the high dimensional variable selection problems of today. His beginnings were certainly classical, but in the mid-eighties, he ventured into Bayesian and full decision theoretic solutions of some of his problems. Sometimes he did empirical Bayes. He would always do a theoretical study of the operating characteristics of his methodologies. He would sometimes work out convergence rates of probabilities of correct selections, sometimes convergence rates of Bayes risks or regrets, conservative minimax such as Γ-minimax. It is astonishing that 63 years ago, with hardly any computing power available, he doggedly produced tables of the joint CDF of multivariate normal and multivariate t-distributions. He also did a lot of work that was original and practically useful on reliability and statistical quality control. Many people are surprised that Shanti Gupta wrote a number of articles on Mahatma Gandhi’s ideas on labor-capital relations and economic philosophy, whether Gandhi was an economic egalitarian. Shanti Gupta was a gracious person, with a gentleman’s manners. Hosting faculty or members of external review boards at his home, he would serve the best wine in the world. He enjoyed north Indian food immensely, and his wife Marianne learned to make a good chicken curry from him. Shanti Gupta was one of those vanishingly rare types: a man of quiet scholarliness, an enthusiast, a self-minimizer, and the epitome of integrity. In short, a rare, delicate, elegant, and in some ways a peerless statistical academic. I miss him. He should be missed, a whole lot.
