=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Heading for Rome - The Washington Post]
May 7, 2000 · Hall of Fame: Nine people were inducted into the American Classical Music Hall of Fame in ceremonies last week at the Library of Congress.
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/lifestyle/style/2000/05/07/heading-for-rome/90e0315e-ea78-45f8-b822-07469034747d/

[American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum - Wikipedia]
The American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum is a non-profit organization celebrating past and present individuals and institutions that have made significant contributions to classical music —"people who have contributed to American music and music in America", according to Samuel Adler (co-chairman of the organization's first ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Classical_Music_Hall_of_Fame_and_Museum

[Browse Inductees - | Classical Music Walk Of Fame]
165 Inductees Since 1998. Order Inductees By: Name, Year, Type. Show Only Inductee Type: All Composer, Conductor, Ensemble, Educator, Performer, Organization.
URL: https://classicalwalkoffame.org/browse-inductees/

[Edward MacDowell Inducted Into Classical Music Hall Of Fame - News]
The permanent home of the American Classical Music Hall of Fame is Cincinnati, Ohio. Founded in 1996, the Hall is a national institution dedicated to honoring and celebrating the many facets of American classical music.
URL: https://www.macdowell.org/news/edward-mac-dowell-inducted-into-classical-music-hall-of-fame

[» Hall of Fame Inductees | Classical Music Walk Of Fame]
Hall of Fame Inductees 165 Inductees Since 1998 Order Inductees By: Show Only Inductee Type: OR Show Only Inductee Year:
URL: https://classicalwalkoffame.org/the-inductees/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Heading for Rome - The Washington Post] ---
Rome Prize: Michael Hersch has won the Samuel Barber Fellowship in Musical Composition for 2000-01, given by the American Academy in Rome. At age 28, the D.C. native is among the youngest winners of this prestigious award. Earlier winners include composers Elliott Carter and Samuel Barber. By Joseph McLellan


--- [American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum - Wikipedia] ---
The American Classical Music Hall of Fame and Museum is a non-profit organization celebrating past and present individuals and institutions that have made significant contributions to classical music—"people who have contributed to American music and music in America", according to Samuel Adler (co-chairman of the organization's first artistic directorate). The project was founded in 1996 by Cincinnati businessman and civic leader David A. Klingshirm and inducted its first honorees in 1998.
The organization's offices and exhibits are housed in the Hamilton County Memorial Building, next door to the Cincinnati Music Hall in the Over-the-Rhine neighborhood of Cincinnati, Ohio. The exhibits are not open to the public but are on view during some events at the School for Creative and Performing Arts in Cincinnati and via a virtual museum. "The Classical Walk of Fame", pavement stones engraved with names of American Classical Music Hall of Fame inductees, was opened in Washington Park outside the steps of the Cincinnati Music Hall in 2012. A mobile app allows park visitors to read biographies of the inductees, listen to samples of their music, and view related pictures. They can also play classical music through a mobile jukebox which activates the park's "dancing fountain".




--- [Browse Inductees - | Classical Music Walk Of Fame] ---
The American Classical Music Hall Of Fame offers a complimentary smartphone application for playing inductee music through your phone and also through Washington Park’s PA system. Download Android Player Download Player On iOS No, thank you. Just take me to the website.165 Inductees Since 1998 ASCAP Adams, John Adler, Samuel Alsop, Marin American Guild of Organists Anderson, Marian Apollo's Fire Arroyo, Martina Ax, Emanuel BMI Babbit, Milton Baldwin Piano Company Barber, Samuel Bartok, Bela Beach, Amy Beaux Arts Trio Bernstein, Leonard Billings, William Bolcom, William Bookspan, Martin Boston Symphony Orchestra Boulanger, Nadia Brubeck, Dave Burleigh, Henry Cage, John Caldwell, Sarah Carter, Elliot Casals, Pablo Chadwick, George Whitefield Chanticleer Chicago Symphony Orchestra Chorus America Cincinnati Opera Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cleveland Orchestra Cliburn, Van Conlon, James Coolidge, Elizabeth Sprague Copland, Aaron Corigliano, John Crider, Paula Crumb, George DeLay, Dorothy Diamond, David Dvorak, Antonin Ellington, Duke Emerson String Quartet Fennell, Frederick Fiedler, Arthur Fisk Jubilee Singers Fleisher, Leon Fleming, Renée Foss, Lukas Gershwin, George Gingold, Josef Glass, Philip Goto, Midori Gottschalk, Louis Moreau (Melissa) Gould, Morton Graffman, Gary Griffes, Charles Tomlinson Guarneri Quartet Hancock, Gerre Handel and Haydn Society Hanson, Howard Heifetz, Jascha Herseth, Adolph Sylvester “Bud” Hillis, Margaret Hindemith, Paul Hitchcock, H. Wiley Horne, Marilyn Interlochen Center for the Arts Ives, Charles John Philip Sousa Band Joplin, Scott Juilliard School Julliard String Quartet Kernis, Aaron Jay Koussevitzky, Serge Kronos Quartet Kunzel, Erich LaSalle Quartet Larsen, Libby League of American Orchestras Levine, James Lewis, Henry Library of Congress Music Division Los Angeles Master Chorale Ma, Yo-Yo Maazel, Lorin MacDowell, Edward Mahler, Gustav Martino, Donald Mason, Lowell Mehta, Zubin Menotti, Gian Carlo Metropolitan Opera Milhaud, Darius Mitropoulos, Dimitri Mormon Tabernacle Choir Muti, Riccardo New York Philharmonic Noble, Weston Norman, Jessye Opera America Ormandy, Eugene Paine, John Knowles Perlman,Itzak Philadelphia Orchestra Phillips, Harvey G. Piatigorsky, Gregor Piston, Walter Polisi, Joseph Previn, Andre Price, Leontyne Rachleff, Larry Rachmaninoff, Sergei Reich, Steve Reiner, Fritz Reynolds, H. Robert Rorem, Ned Rudolf, Max Schippers, Thomas Schnabel, Artur Schoenberg, Arnold Schuller, Gunther Schuman, William Serkin, Rudolf Sessions, Roger Shaw, Robert Sills, Beverly Slatkin, Leonard Slonimsky, Nicolas Solti, Sir Georg Sousa, John Philip St. Louis Symphony Starker, János Steinberg, Michael Steinway & Sons Stern, Isaac Stevens, Rise Still, William Grant Stokowski, Leopold Stravinsky, Igor Szell, George Tanglewood Music Festival Thomas, Theodore Thomson, Virgil Tilson Thomas, Michael Toscanini, Arturo Tower, Joan United States Marine Band Varese, Edgard Wadsworth, Charles Walker, George Walter, Bruno Warfield, William Warland, Dale Watts, Andre Westminster Choir College Williams, John Zhang, Xian Zinman, David Zwilich, Ellen Taaffe von Stade, Frederica


--- [Edward MacDowell Inducted Into Classical Music Hall Of Fame - News] ---
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE — Peterborough, NH — April 28, 2000 -- The MacDowell Colony is proud to announce that Edward MacDowell has been included among the American Classical Music Hall of Fame's ten inductees for the year 2000. The announcement was made by the Hall of Fame on February 14, 2000, and an official ceremony was held at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. on April 28. The program included a special concert, medallion ceremony, and luncheon at the Capitol. Honorees were singled out by the Hall of Fame's National Artistic Directorate for their contributions to the growth, development, and appreciation of classical music in America. The other members of this year's group are: The Metropolitan Opera, Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge, Leon Fleisher, Eugene Ormandy, Rudolph Serkin, Beverly Sills, George Szell, MacDowell Colony Fellow George Walker, and 1974 MacDowell Medalist Walter Piston. The permanent home of the American Classical Music Hall of Fame is Cincinnati, Ohio. Founded in 1996, the Hall is a national institution dedicated to honoring and celebrating the many facets of American classical music. The exhibition is designed to be approachable and accessible to all ages. The Hall of Fame enshrined its inaugural roster in 1998 and now includes a total of 48 individuals (composers, conductors, educators, and performers) and three institutions. Many of the inductees were present at the ceremony, while others were represented by family members, biographers, or close associates. Cheryl Young, executive director of the MacDowell Colony, received the medallion on Edward MacDowell's behalf. A concert followed, featuring the works of the inductee composers. MacDowell's work was represented with his pieces Winter and Presto, performed by pianist Bradford Gowen. The concert also featured a tribute to 1998 inductee Aaron Copland, the centennial of whose birth is being widely celebrated this year. Copland, of course, also has strong Colony connections: he was a fellow eight times between 1925 and 1956, received the Edward MacDowell Medal in 1961, and served for 34 years on MacDowell's board of directors. In all, eight MacDowell Medalists have been inducted: Aaron Copland, Edgard Varese, Roger Sessions, William Schuman, Walter Piston, Samuel Barber, Elliott Carter, and Leonard Bernstein. Bernstein and Copland also had residencies at the Colony, as did 1999 inductee Amy Beach as well as Walker. The Music Division of the Library of Congress was inducted as an institution in 1999. The archives of Edward MacDowell were the first collection to be received by the Music Division. As a composer, piano virtuoso, and intellectual, Edward MacDowell had few American peers during his lifetime. The son of a Manhattan milk dealer, he began taking piano lessons with Juan Buitrago at age eight. In April of 1876, 15 year-old Edward, accompanied by his mother, traveled to Paris to study. At the Conservatory there he met Claude Debussy, a young composer also pursuing his education. In Europe MacDowell would study with Sigmund Lebert, Louis Ehlert, Carl Heymann, and Joachim Raff. He started taking his own students in 1880. Among his students was a young pianist named Marian Nevins, who had been recommended to him by Raff. A strong bond soon formed between teacher and student, and Edward and Marian were married in 1885. The newlyweds remained in Europe for several years, finally returning to the United States and settling in Boston in 1888. Over the following eight years, works like "To a Wild Rose," "Woodland Sketches," and "Hamlet and Ophelia" established MacDowell, already as an accomplished virtuoso, as America's premier composer. In 1896 he left Boston in favor of New York, where he had accepted an appointment as Columbia University's first professor of music. He resigned in 1904. Shortly before his death in 1908, he and Marian founded The MacDowell Colony, America's first multidisciplinary artists' retreat. The Colony, and the varied art of its Fellows, form MacDowell's living legacy.


--- [» Hall of Fame Inductees | Classical Music Walk Of Fame] ---
The American Classical Music Hall Of Fame offers a complimentary smartphone application for playing inductee music through your phone and also through Washington Park’s PA system. Download Android Player Download Player On iOS No, thank you. Just take me to the website.165 Inductees Since 1998 ASCAP Adams, John Adler, Samuel Alsop, Marin American Guild of Organists Anderson, Marian Apollo's Fire Arroyo, Martina Ax, Emanuel BMI Babbit, Milton Baldwin Piano Company Barber, Samuel Bartok, Bela Beach, Amy Beaux Arts Trio Bernstein, Leonard Billings, William Bolcom, William Bookspan, Martin Boston Symphony Orchestra Boulanger, Nadia Brubeck, Dave Burleigh, Henry Cage, John Caldwell, Sarah Carter, Elliot Casals, Pablo Chadwick, George Whitefield Chanticleer Chicago Symphony Orchestra Chorus America Cincinnati Opera Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra Cleveland Orchestra Cliburn, Van Conlon, James Coolidge, Elizabeth Sprague Copland, Aaron Corigliano, John Crider, Paula Crumb, George DeLay, Dorothy Diamond, David Dvorak, Antonin Ellington, Duke Emerson String Quartet Fennell, Frederick Fiedler, Arthur Fisk Jubilee Singers Fleisher, Leon Fleming, Renée Foss, Lukas Gershwin, George Gingold, Josef Glass, Philip Goto, Midori Gottschalk, Louis Moreau (Melissa) Gould, Morton Graffman, Gary Griffes, Charles Tomlinson Guarneri Quartet Hancock, Gerre Handel and Haydn Society Hanson, Howard Heifetz, Jascha Herseth, Adolph Sylvester “Bud” Hillis, Margaret Hindemith, Paul Hitchcock, H. Wiley Horne, Marilyn Interlochen Center for the Arts Ives, Charles John Philip Sousa Band Joplin, Scott Juilliard School Julliard String Quartet Kernis, Aaron Jay Koussevitzky, Serge Kronos Quartet Kunzel, Erich LaSalle Quartet Larsen, Libby League of American Orchestras Levine, James Lewis, Henry Library of Congress Music Division Los Angeles Master Chorale Ma, Yo-Yo Maazel, Lorin MacDowell, Edward Mahler, Gustav Martino, Donald Mason, Lowell Mehta, Zubin Menotti, Gian Carlo Metropolitan Opera Milhaud, Darius Mitropoulos, Dimitri Mormon Tabernacle Choir Muti, Riccardo New York Philharmonic Noble, Weston Norman, Jessye Opera America Ormandy, Eugene Paine, John Knowles Perlman,Itzak Philadelphia Orchestra Phillips, Harvey G. Piatigorsky, Gregor Piston, Walter Polisi, Joseph Previn, Andre Price, Leontyne Rachleff, Larry Rachmaninoff, Sergei Reich, Steve Reiner, Fritz Reynolds, H. Robert Rorem, Ned Rudolf, Max Schippers, Thomas Schnabel, Artur Schoenberg, Arnold Schuller, Gunther Schuman, William Serkin, Rudolf Sessions, Roger Shaw, Robert Sills, Beverly Slatkin, Leonard Slonimsky, Nicolas Solti, Sir Georg Sousa, John Philip St. Louis Symphony Starker, János Steinberg, Michael Steinway & Sons Stern, Isaac Stevens, Rise Still, William Grant Stokowski, Leopold Stravinsky, Igor Szell, George Tanglewood Music Festival Thomas, Theodore Thomson, Virgil Tilson Thomas, Michael Toscanini, Arturo Tower, Joan United States Marine Band Varese, Edgard Wadsworth, Charles Walker, George Walter, Bruno Warfield, William Warland, Dale Watts, Andre Westminster Choir College Williams, John Zhang, Xian Zinman, David Zwilich, Ellen Taaffe von Stade, Frederica
