=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ed Broadbent - Wikipedia]
John Edward Broadbent was born in Oshawa, Ontario, the son of Percy, who worked at General Motors, and Mary (Welsh) Broadbent, a homemaker. [2][3] In 1961, he married Yvonne Yamaoka, a Japanese Canadian town planner whose family had been interned by the federal government in World War II. They divorced in 1967. Broadbent received a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in political science from ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ed_Broadbent

[John Broadbent (born March 21, 1936), Canadian politician ...]
Background Broadbent, John Edward was born on March 21, 1936 in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada. Son of Percy Edward and Mary Anastasia (Welsh) Broadbent. Education Bachelor in Philosophy with honors, University Toronto, 1959. Master of Arts in Philosophy of Law, University Toronto, 1961. Doctor of Philosophy, University Toronto, 1964. Career Professor, of Political Science, York University, Ontario ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/john.broadbent/480899

[Profiling: Ed Broadbent – Oshawa Museum Blog]
Jan 19, 2024 · The Honorable Dr. John Edward (Ed) Broadbent, CC, PC, was born in Oshawa on March 21, 1936, the second of three children to Percy and Mary Broadbent. An alumnus of Oshawa Central Collegiate, he graduated first in his class from the University of Toronto in 1959.
URL: https://oshawamuseum.wordpress.com/2024/01/19/profiling-ed-broadbent/

[Honorary degree citation - J. Edward Broadbent]
He has been awarded honorary doctorates from four Canadian universities, including his alma mater, the University of Toronto. Concordia University is proud that ...
URL: https://www.concordia.ca/offices/archives/honorary-degree-recipients/1999/06/edward-broadbent.html

[Ed BROADBENT Obituary | 2025 - 2025 | Montreal Gazette ...]
Jan 26, 2024 · He earned a degree in philosophy from the University of Toronto, graduating in 1959. He then pursued postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics and Political Science, before returning to the University of Toronto where he obtained a doctorate in political sciences, graduating in 1966.
URL: https://montrealgazette.remembering.ca/obituary/ed-broadbent-1089314126


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ed Broadbent - Wikipedia] ---
John Edward Broadbent (March 21, 1936 – January 11, 2024) was a Canadian social-democratic politician and political scientist. He was leader of the New Democratic Party (NDP) from 1975 to 1989, and a member of Parliament from 1968 to 1990 and from 2004 to 2006. He led the NDP through four federal elections. He oversaw a period of growth for the party with its parliamentary representation rising from 17 to 43 seats as of the 1988 federal election.
Broadbent also served as a vice-president of Socialist International from 1979 to 1989 and director of the International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development from 1990 to 1996. Returning to politics in the 2004 federal election, he was elected to represent Ottawa Centre. He later chaired the Broadbent Institute, a policy think tank founded in 2011.




--- [John Broadbent (born March 21, 1936), Canadian politician ...] ---
No content


--- [Profiling: Ed Broadbent – Oshawa Museum Blog] ---
By Jennifer Weymark and Lisa Terech This was originally written as an article for the Oshawa Express in 2010. It has been updated and revised for this post. The Honorable Dr. John Edward (Ed) Broadbent, CC, PC, was born in Oshawa on March 21, 1936, the second of three children to Percy and Mary Broadbent. An alumnus of Oshawa Central Collegiate, he graduated first in his class from the University of Toronto in 1959. After graduating, he taught English at O’Neill CVI for one year before he went on to further his educational pursuits. Broadbent earned his Masters of Philosophy of Law from U of T in 1962 and would attain his PhD in political science at the prestigious London School of Economics and U of T.1 Broadbent shocked his parents in 1968 when he quit his teaching position at York University to run in the Oshawa-Whitby riding as the New Democrat candidate. What might have made his decision to run the more shocking is that his parents were, reportedly, staunch conservatives.2 That said, his family were firmly behind him and “mobilized to support Ed”3 as he sought to win the Oshawa-Whitby riding, which had been represented by the Hon. Michael Starr, of the Progressive Conservatives, since 1952. The election was a tight race, and Broadbent beat Starr in a surprise victory, winning with a 15 vote margin. At the beginning of his political career, Broadbent was aligned with the “Waffle,” a left-leaning faction in the NDP, but he would later break away from this group.4 In 1970 he tried his hand at authorship, penning the work The Liberal Rip Off. After a failed attempt at the party leadership position in 1971, Ed was named leader of the New Democratic Party in 1975, a position he held until he resigned in 1989. He would remain the riding’s MP until the end of that year. During his time as leader of the NDP, “Broadbent argued for the abolition of capital punishment, and advocated for the rights of same-sex couples to marry. He also focused his efforts on Indigenous rights, women’s equality, child poverty, ethics in government, electoral reform and tax equality.”5 The early 1980s in Canada were noted as it was during this time that Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau sought to patriate the Canadian Constitution and formalize the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Broadbent supported this endeavour and, as a result, faced backlash from within his party. At the party convention in 1981, the NDP “endorsed his position, but some discontent remained.”6 Broadbent was named to the Privy Council of Canada in 1982.7 Reporter Judy Steed, who once referred to him as “Canada’s Premier Socialist” in an article in Report on Business Magazine, wrote a book about him, entitled Ed Broadbent: The Pursuit of Power, published in 1988. In his final speech in the House of Commons after his first tenure as a parliamentarian, Ed called to eradicate child poverty by the year 2000. “For too long we have ignored the appalling poverty in the midst of affluence,” Broadbent said. “This is a national horror. This is a national shame. It is a horror and a shame that we should put an end to.” As lamented by the Toronto Star editorial board, “the shame persists to this day.”8 Retirement from politics was not a quiet time for Ed. In 1993, he was named an Officer in the Order of Canada, and in 2002, Ed was named a Companion of the Order of Canada. Upon his retirement in 1990, Ed became the first President of the International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development,9 a fitting job for a left-wing socialist. The Centre had “an international mandate to promote, advocate and defend the democratic and human rights set out in the International Bill of Human Rights.”10 The Centre closed in 2012. Broadbent left the Centre in 1996 and was a guest lecturer at numerous Universities across the world including, Simon Fraser University, the University of Oxford, and the University of New Delhi. In 2001 Broadbent was asked to co-chair the Canadian Democracy and Corporate Accountability Commission, and he also published his second book entitled, Democratic Equality: What Went Wrong. After a 14 year hiatus from the House of Commons, Broadbent returned as an MP in 2004, representing Ottawa Centre, under the NDP leadership of Jack Layton.11 He did not seek reelection in 2006 as the health of his wife, Lucille, was failing. She passed away in 2006.12 In 2011, Ed founded the Broadbent Institute, “an Ottawa-based think-tank dedicated to progressive change focused on income inequality, democratic renewal, green economy and social democracy.”13 Ed was on hand in Oshawa in June 2023 for the opening of the Ed Broadbent Waterfront Park, a new greenspace at the lakefront, at the southeast corner of Simcoe St. S. and Harbour Road. This park includes “an amphitheatre, stage and seating; a network of concrete and asphalt pathways; green spaces; and a Garden of Human Rights.”14 His third book, entitled Seeking Social Democracy: Seven Decades in the Fight for Equality, was written with Frances Abele, Jonathan Sas, and Luke Savage and published in October 2023. Ed Broadbent died on January 11, 2024, at the age of 87. A state funeral will be held in Ottawa on January 28, 2024. “It will give Canadians an opportunity to salute Mr. Broadbent’s contributions to public life and offer their condolences.”15 Upon his passing, former city councillor Nester Pidwerbecki reflected that Broadbent “had a soft spot in his heart for people who didn’t have representation, like children. If you see the bill he brought forward in the House to eradicate child poverty, these were the primary things in his life; that was his goal to work hard to do it. His goal was to make life better for those who didn’t really have anybody speaking for them in the House.” Pidwerbecki worked as Broadbent’s Oshawa executive assistant from 1975-1989.16 When he first stepped aside from politics, Broadbent was quoted in the Oshawa This Week as saying the following, “It was a great pleasure for me to grow up in this town… I want to thank Oshawa for giving me a sense of what a community, what Canada and what politics should be all about… All of us have to make this planet a little better by the time we leave it than when we arrived.”17 - “Broadbent’s Career Highlights,” Oshawa Times, 29 Sept 1989, 3. - Garth Stevenson, “Ed Broadbent,” The Canadian Encyclopedia, Historica Canada. Article published September 30, 2007; Last Edited January 12, 2024. Accessed 15 Jan 2024, via: - Myron Momryk, Mike Starr of Oshawa (Ottawa & Gatineau: University of Ottawa Press & Canadian Museum of History, 2017), 202. - John Goodwin, “The man who couldn’t be PM,” Oshawa Times, 29 Sept 1989, 3. - “About Ed Broadbent,” Government of Canada website, accessed 15 Jan 2024, via: https://canada.ca/en/canadian-heritage/commemoration/ed-broadbent/about.html - Ibid. - Stevenson, “Ed Broadbent.” - “Ed Broadbent was a tireless advocate for a fairer society,” Toronto Star, 12 January 2024; accessed 15 Jan 2024, via: https://www.thestar.com/opinion/editorials/ed-broadbent-was-a-tireless-advocate-for-a-fairer-society - Stevenson, “Ed Broadbent.” - “Mission Statement,” Former official website for the International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development, accessed via archive.org 15 Jan 2024, via: https://web.archive.org/web/20120317044044/http://www.dd-rd.ca/site/who_we_are/index.php?subsection=strategic_objectives&lang=en - “About Ed Broadbent.” - Stevenson, “Ed Broadbent.” - “About Ed Broadbent.” - “Ed Broadbent Waterfront Park officially opens” City of Oshawa News Alert, dated 2 June 2023; accessed 15 Jan 2004 via: https://www.oshawa.ca/en/news/ed-broadbent-waterfront-park-officially-opens.aspx - “Prime Minister announces state funeral for the Honourable Ed Broadbent,” Prime Minister of Canada website, accessed 15 Jan 2024, via: https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/news-releases/2024/01/15/prime-minister-announces-state-funeral-honourable-ed-broadbent - Tim Kelly, “Memories of Ed: ‘He never forgot where he came from,’ say those who knew political giant Ed Broadbent best in Oshawa,” Oshawa This Week, 13 Jan 2024; accessed 15 Jan 2024, via: https://www.durhamregion.com/news/memories-of-ed-he-never-forgot-where-he-came-from-say-those-who-knew-political - Ed Broadbent, as quoted in Joan Downey, “Ed thanks Oshawa,” Oshawa This Week, undated; Broadbent Genealogy file, Oshawa Museum archival collection.


--- [Honorary degree citation - J. Edward Broadbent] ---
Honorary degree citation - J. Edward Broadbent By: Reeta Tremblay, June 1999 Mr. Chancellor, I have the honour to present to you a politician, scholar and human rights activist, the Honourable J. Edward Broadbent. Dr. Broadbent was born to an auto worker's family in Oshawa, Ontario, in 1936. He studied at the University of Toronto, graduating first in his class with a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy. He went on to acquire a Master's degree in the Philosophy of Law and a PhD in Political Science. He also pursued post-doctoral studies at the London School of Economics. Upon his return to Canada he accepted a teaching position in the Political Science Department at York University. He taught for three years, until his election to the House of Commons in 1968, representing Oshawa-Whitby for the New Democratic Party. He was a popular and hard-working parliamentarian, who was well respected both within and outside his party. When NDP leader David Lewis stepped down following his party's defeat in the 1974 federal election, Ed Broadbent succeeded him. As leader, he emphasized economic issues and helped the party recover and rebuild. He waged a brilliant campaign, emphasizing tax reform, lower interest rates and equality for women. His efforts were rewarded with an impressive showing in the next federal election when the NDP captured 30 seats, only 10 fewer than the Liberals and an unprecedented 13 seats in the province of Ontario. The Broadbent years of leadership were marked by growth and consolidation. In the 1988 federal election, his last as leader of the NDP, he led the New Democrats in a campaign that gained 43 seats in the House of Commons, the party's best showing ever. He retired from politics the following year and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney appointed him President of the newly created International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development. During his six years as the Centre's President, Dr. Broadbent worked tirelessly to promote and defend human rights, and the causes of justice and peace worldwide. He was outspoken and never hesitated to criticize governments, including our own, when he felt their policies and priorities required review. The agenda he established for human rights has become even more relevant within the context of global politics today. In 1995, he accepted a post as Visiting Fellow at All Souls College at Oxford University in England. He obviously enjoyed his return to academia, because he then accepted a two-year appointment as the J.S. Woodsworth Chair in Humanities at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver. Ed Broadbent is a proud Canadian and has dedicated his professional and personal life to advancing and protecting the Canadian ideal. He served as a pilot officer in the Royal Canadian Air Force, he is a Director of the Canadian Civil Liberties Association and has been active in the Public Policy Forum. He has been described as one of the distinguished public intellectuals of our time, fulfilling a Canadian tradition that links public service and academic values. He has accumulated many awards and honours during his distinguished career of public service. He is an Officer of the Order of Canada, the highest honour a private citizen can receive. He has been awarded honorary doctorates from four Canadian universities, including his alma mater, the University of Toronto. Concordia University is proud that he has agreed to be part of our convocation ceremony today and to accept an honorary degree from our University. Mr. Chancellor, it is my privilege and an honour to present to you, on behalf of Senate and the Board of Governors, the Honorable J. Edward Broadbent, so that you may confer upon him the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa.


--- [Ed BROADBENT Obituary | 2025 - 2025 | Montreal Gazette ...] ---
BROADBENT, The Honourable Ed , P.C., C.C. (1936-2024) Ed passed away peacefully in Ottawa, Ontario, on January 11, 2024, at the age of 87. He leaves behind his partner Frances Abele, his two children, Paul and Christine; his four grandchildren, Nicole, Gareth, Caitlin and Brett, his two great-grandchildren, Alice and Freya, and many close relatives and dear friends. Ed was predeceased by his former spouses Ellen Meiksins Wood (m. 2014-2016) and Lucille Broadbent (m. 1971-2006), he is also survived by ex-wife Yvonne Yamaoka (m. 1961 div. 1967). John Edward Broadbent was born in Oshawa, Ontario, on March 21, 1936, to Percy Broadbent, a General Motors worker, and Mary Welsh, a homemaker. Ed demonstrated an interest in politics and academia at a young age. He earned a degree in philosophy from the University of Toronto, graduating in 1959. He then pursued postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics and Political Science, before returning to the University of Toronto where he obtained a doctorate in political sciences, graduating in 1966. Ed was elected to the House of Commons in 1968 as a member of the New Democratic Party of Canada (NDP). He was a Member of Parliament for the riding of Oshawa-Whitby for seven years before becoming leader of the NDP in 1975, a position he held until 1989. He briefly stepped away from politics to serve as president of the International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development (Rights and Democracy). He returned to the House of Commons from 2004-2006 when he was elected as a Member of Parliament for Ottawa Centre. In 2011, Ed founded the Broadbent Institute, remaining active as founder and as member of the Board of Directors while teaching political science at several universities in Canada and abroad. Throughout his seven-decade career, Ed fought for justice and equality, making great strides in the advancement of the rights of disadvantaged persons. Ed was a firm believer in the politics of joy: a joyful, meaningful life was one filled with music, movies, barbecues, time outdoors but above all time with family and friends. Those close to him will miss his thoughtful conversations discussing a good book or his recent travels over a glass of red wine. A state funeral in memory of the Honourable John Edward Broadbent will be held at 4 p.m. on January 28, 2024, at the Carleton Dominion-Chalmers Centre in Ottawa. Canadians are invited to watch the ceremony live on CBC/Radio-Canada television and web streaming platforms. Ed's family appreciates expressions of support and asks that in lieu of flowers, donations be made to the Broadbent Institute, Amnesty International, and Doctors Without Borders. To plant a beautiful memorial tree in memory of Ed, please visit our Tree Store. BROADBENT, The Honourable Ed , P.C., C.C. (1936-2024) Ed passed away peacefully in Ottawa, Ontario, on January 11, 2024, at the age of 87. He leaves behind his partner Frances Abele, his two children, Paul and Christine; his four grandchildren, Nicole, Gareth, Caitlin and Brett, his two great-grandchildren, Alice and Freya Published on January 26, 2024 There are no events scheduled. You can still show your support by planting a memorial tree in memory of Ed BROADBENT.Plant a Tree
