=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sandra Douglass Morgan - Wikipedia]
Sandra Douglass Morgan ... Sandra Douglass Morgan (born April 10, 1978) is an American attorney and football executive who is the president of the Las Vegas Raiders of the National Football League. She is the first Black and Asian woman to serve as an NFL team president.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandra_Douglass_Morgan

[Raiders hire Sandra Douglass Morgan as team president; first Black ...]
Jul 7, 2022 · The Las Vegas Raiders hired Sandra Douglass Morgan as their new team president Thursday, making her the first Black woman in NFL history to assume the role.
URL: https://www.nfl.com/news/raiders-hire-sandra-douglass-morgan-as-team-president-first-black-woman-presiden

[Meet Sandra Douglass Morgan, the NFL's only Black female president]
Feb 28, 2023 · Sandra Douglass Morgan became the first Black woman to lead an NFL team seven months ago when the Las Vegas Raiders announced her as their new president.
URL: https://www.cnbc.com/2023/02/28/meet-sandra-douglass-morgan-the-nfls-only-black-female-president.html

[Sandra Douglass Morgan, the first Black female NFL team president]
Jets defensive tackle Solomon Thomas shares how Sandra Douglass Morgan became the first Black Woman to be president of an NFL team.
URL: https://www.nfl.com/videos/sandra-douglass-morgan-black-history-month

[FULL Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
full, complete, plenary, replete mean containing all that is wanted or needed or possible. full implies the presence or inclusion of everything that is wanted or required by something or that can be held, contained, or attained by it.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/full


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sandra Douglass Morgan - Wikipedia] ---
Sandra Douglass Morgan (born April 10, 1978) is an American attorney and football executive who is the president of the Las Vegas Raiders of the National Football League. She is the first Black and Asian woman to serve as an NFL team president. Douglass Morgan previously served on the Nevada State Athletic Commission and was the chairwoman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board.


--- [Raiders hire Sandra Douglass Morgan as team president; first Black ...] ---
The Las Vegas Raiders hired Sandra Douglass Morgan as their new team president Thursday, making her the first Black woman in NFL history to assume the role. "I am thrilled that Sandra has agreed to join the Raiders family," Raiders owner Mark Davis said in a statement. "Her experience, integrity and passion for this community will be invaluable to our organization. From the moment I met Sandra, I knew she was a force to be reckoned with. We are extremely lucky to have her at the helm." Morgan's hire comes two months after interim president Dan Ventrelle left the organization after less than a year in the job. Ventrelle said he was fired in retaliation for bringing concerns from multiple employees to the NFL about a "hostile work environment." Davis declined to comment on Ventrelle's allegations at the time. The NFL is looking into the allegations. Ventrelle took over as team president in July 2021 after Marc Badain resigned. Badain had been in the role since 2015, filling the shoes of longtime Raiders president Amy Trask, who had resigned in 2013. "When Mark and I first discussed this opportunity, I was honored and humbled, but I also had a lot of questions," Morgan explained during her introductory presser Thursday. "It's no secret that this organization has faced some recent challenges. But I want to be clear: I'm not here to sweep anything under the rug or avoid problems or concerns that need to be addressed. "The fact is I accepted this role because I believe in the promise of the Raiders, I believe in the future of the Raiders and I believe in this organization's tenets of integrity, community and, most of all, commitment to excellence. I believe in the Davis family's legacy of celebrating and promoting diversity in every sense of that word. I believe in this community that we now call home that has embraced this team with open arms." A Las Vegas native, Morgan was most recently chairwoman of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, appointed to the role in 2019. Morgan has also previously served on the Nevada Gaming Commission, as director of external affairs for AT&T, the city attorney of North Las Vegas and a litigation attorney for MGM Mirage. "I have been the first in other positions that I've held, whether it be city attorney or the Gaming Control Board. I definitely never want to be the last, and I want to get to a point obviously where there is no more first," Morgan said Thursday. "But as I kind of mentioned in my comments, the impact that this has is not lost on me. I definitely would tip my hat to all of the prior women that were leaders and visionaries, and if I could be an inspiration or help or open doors for any other woman and girl out there, then that's an incredible accomplishment for me."


--- [Meet Sandra Douglass Morgan, the NFL's only Black female president] ---
Growing up in Las Vegas, Sandra Douglass Morgan never dreamed about making history — she just wanted to make herself, and her parents, proud. Her father Gilbert, who's Black, and her mother Kil Cha, who is a first-generation Korean American, would swap stories about experiencing casual racism at their jobs while cleaning up after dinner. Gilbert was in the military, and her mother worked in the gaming industry. But Douglass Morgan didn't need to eavesdrop to understand that she and her family would be treated unfairly because of the color of their skin. She watched people assume her mother couldn't understand English, and question how she and her sister Sonya could be her daughters. Douglass Morgan, now 44, made a promise to herself: No matter what she did, she would champion equity and respect. If she wasn't happy or felt like she wasn't being seen, she would be part of the change. Seven months ago, she started a new job as the president of the Las Vegas Raiders — also becoming the first Black woman to lead an NFL team in the league's history. All roads lead back to Las Vegas Douglass Morgan didn't always plan to stay in Sin City for the long haul. She was born on Whiteman Air Force Base in Missouri, but her family moved to Las Vegas in the early 1980s after her father was stationed at Nellis Air Force Base. As a teenager, she set her sights on moving to California and pursuing a career in journalism, inspired by Connie Chung's evening newscasts. She enrolled at the University of Nevada in the 1990s, where she studied political science and communications. During her sophomore year, however, Douglass Morgan signed up for a class that would alter her career plans and the course of her life: constitutional law. She fell in love with the law's complexities, its endless possibilities and the chance to use it to build a more fair, accessible world. As soon as she finished her undergraduate degree, she applied to law school, ultimately choosing to attend the William S. Boyd School of Law at UNLV to save money. Shortly after graduating in 2003, she was hired as a litigation attorney for The Mirage casino resort. She became the North Las Vegas city attorney in 2008, making her the first Black person in Nevada's history to hold the job. Douglass Morgan continued to climb the corporate ladder, working as the director of external affairs for AT&T and serving on the esteemed Nevada Gaming Commission. In 2019, she shattered another glass ceiling when she became the first person of color to serve as chair of the Nevada Gaming Control Board. This meant that, at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, Douglass Morgan was responsible for managing the openings and closing of casinos in Las Vegas — an experience that taught her how to lead under pressure like no other. "There was no blueprint, no one could tell me what to do," she recalls. "I quickly learned not to be afraid of making an unpopular decision, because ultimately I had to trust my gut and do what I felt was best for the people I managed and whose safety I was responsible for." She left that job in the fall of 2020 to serve on the boards of different businesses, including Caesars Entertainment and Fidelity National Financial. In 2021, she became legal counsel for Covington & Burling LLP law firm and started her own consulting business. That same year, she joined the Las Vegas committee for Super Bowl LVIII. A once-in-a-lifetime experience The blend of legal, business, and political positions on Douglass Morgan's resume, she says, has made her a more confident, adaptable leader, and have a good instinct for what makes a strong organizational culture — all traits that, unbeknownst to her, would make her a great NFL president. When Douglass Morgan first met Raiders owner Mark Davis in 2021, she told him to call her if he ever needed business advice from a local, given that the team had just moved from Oakland to Las Vegas for the 2020 season. Months later — and after the abrupt departure of two presidents — Davis approached Douglass Morgan about the job. The Raiders had considered several qualified candidates, he told her, but her name kept coming to the top of the list. At first, she hesitated. "I didn't see myself working in the front office of one of the most iconic franchises in football," she recalls. Douglass Morgan sought the counsel of friends and family, including her husband, Don Morgan, who played four years in the NFL with the Minnesota Vikings and Arizona Cardinals. As she mulled over the job offer, she was reminded of some of her favorite childhood memories: attending UNLV basketball games, meeting professional athletes during school assemblies, and the joyous connection that being a part of a fanbase can bring. That convinced her to take the job. "I knew it would be an incredible, once-in-a-lifetime experience, and would bring with it the opportunity to make a positive, lasting impact on my community," she says. 'Success isn't being the first' Douglass Morgan jokes that she underestimated the amount of attention her new job would bring. "I'm glad I did, though, because if I knew that was going to happen, I would have been a lot more nervous," she adds. Before the season, she attended an event at Allegiant Stadium for suite and season ticket holders. She had spoken at length about the significance of her appointment, and what it meant to her to be the first Black female NFL president at press conferences and meetings with her staff, but at that point, she couldn't grasp the impact of her achievement. Then, a young father came up to her. "He told me that he brings his son and daughter to the games and that his son always talks about wanting to play for the Raiders, while her daughter says nothing," she says. "But when she saw me on the field, she turned to her dad and said, 'Maybe I can work for the Raiders, too.'" She continues: "I realized, at that moment, that this job is much bigger than me. It's giving people hope and visibility and optimism that this is something you can strive for." But Douglass Morgan wants to be more than a figurehead. She aims to make the Raiders and the NFL more diverse, starting at the top — one of her first moves was to hire a director of diversity, equity and inclusion for the Raiders. Her other goals include strengthening the Raiders' company culture and engaging the organization in more community activities in and around Las Vegas. "To me, the definition of success isn't being the first — it's to have many, many others follow behind you," Douglass Morgan says. "It's incredibly important to uplift and support the next generation of leaders. I don't want sports, or other male-dominated industries, to be a trail anymore — I want it to be an eight-lane highway, open to all." Check out: 'Do the jobs that nobody else wants to do': CNBC's Becky Quick shares her best career advice 29-year-old quit the NFL to sell Pokémon cards—his business brought in $5 million in just 7 months Sign up now: Get smarter about your money and career with our weekly newsletter


--- [Sandra Douglass Morgan, the first Black female NFL team president] ---
Black History Month Sandra Douglass Morgan, the first Black female NFL team president | Black History Month As we celebrate Black History Month, we honor those in the past and present that have made a mark on the NFL. Jets defensive tackle Solomon Thomas shares how Sandra Douglass Morgan became the first Black Woman to be president of an NFL team.


--- [FULL Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : containing as much or as many as is possible or normal a full hamper —often used with ofa bin full of corn 2 a : complete especially in detail, number, or duration a full report gone a full hour my full share b : lacking restraint, check, or qualification full retreat full support c : having all distinguishing characteristics : enjoying all authorized rights and privileges full member full professor d : not lacking in any essential : perfect in full control of your senses e(1) : completely occupied by runners came to bat with the bases full (2) : having three balls and two strikes a full count 3 a : being at the highest or greatest degree : maximum full speed full strength b : being at the height of development full bloom c : being a full moon : completely illuminated The moon is full tonight. 4 : rounded in outline a full figure 5 a : possessing or containing a great number or amount —used with of a room full of pictures full of hope his claims are full of lies b : having an abundance of material especially in the form of gathered, pleated, or flared parts a full skirt c —used as an intensive to emphasize the large size of an amount won by a full four strokes was a full 3 months late with her payment d : rich in experience a full life living life to the fullest [= in a very active way] 6 a : satisfied especially with food or drink He was full after eating the large supper. b : large enough to satisfy a full meal 7 archaic : completely weary 8 : having both parents in common full sisters 9 : having volume or depth of sound full tones 10 : completely occupied especially with a thought or plan full of his own concerns 11 : possessing a rich or pronounced quality a food of full flavor see also: 1 : the highest or fullest state or degree the full of the moon 2 : the utmost extent enjoy to the full see also: fulled; fulling; fulls of the moon : to become full : to make full in sewing fulled; fulling; fulls : to shrink and thicken (woolen cloth) by moistening, heating, and pressing Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged
