=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Heisuke Hironaka (1931 - ) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...]
Hironaka was Director of the Research Institute in Kyoto from 1983 to 1985, retiring in 1991 when he was made Professor Emeritus. However, in1996 he became president of Yamaguchi University, being inaugurated on 16 May. He held this position until 2002.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Hironaka/

[Heisuke Hironaka - Wikipedia]
Hironaka was born on April 9, 1931 in Yamaguchi, Japan. He was inspired to study mathematics after a visiting Hiroshima University mathematics professor gave a lecture at his junior high school. Hironaka applied to the undergraduate program at Hiroshima University, but was unsuccessful. However, the following year, he was accepted into Kyoto University to study physics, entering in 1949 and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heisuke_Hironaka

[Hironaka Heisuke | Mathematician, Algebraic Geometry, Resolution of ...]
Hironaka Heisuke (born April 9, 1931, Yamaguchi prefecture, Japan) is a Japanese mathematician who was awarded the Fields Medal in 1970 for his work in algebraic geometry. Hironaka graduated from Kyōto University (1954) and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S. (Ph.D., 1960); at the latter he studied under Oscar Zariski.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Hironaka-Heisuke

[山口大学 時間学研究所 - Yamaguchi U]
The Research Institute for Time Studies (RITS) at Yamaguchi University was established in April 2000 when Dr. Heisuke Hironaka was the president of the university. The aim is to create Time Studies as a new interdisciplinary area of study by understanding nature, human, society, and culture from the viewpoint of time, and for society to benefit from the research results. The activities of RITS ...
URL: http://www.rits.yamaguchi-u.ac.jp/?page_id=33

[广中平佑_百度百科]
广中平佑（Hironaka Heisuke，1931年4月9日—），日本数学家，生于山口县，哈佛大学博士，曾任哈佛大学、京都大学教授，后获任两校名誉教授。1969年当选美国艺术与科学院院士，1970年凭借代数簇奇点解消理论获菲尔兹奖及日本学士院奖，1976年入选日本学士院院士。广中平佑1950年入读京都大学，1957年 ...
URL: https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%B9%BF%E4%B8%AD%E5%B9%B3%E4%BD%91/7427386


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Heisuke Hironaka (1931 - ) - Biography - MacTutor History of ...] ---
Quick Info Born 9 April 1931 Yamaguchi, Japan Summary Heisuke Hironaka is a Japanese mathematician who won a Fields Medal in 1970 for his contributions to algebraic geometry. Biography Heisuke Hironaka's father ran a textile factory. This was not an occupation he wanted but he was forced into the family business when his father (Heisuke's paternal grandfather) died while he was still a schoolboy. Heisuke's mother was his father's third wife. After his first wife died, he remarried and had four children. However, his second wife then died and he married for the third time, to a younger sister of his second wife who, by this time, was widowed with one child. These five children comprised three boys and two girls. Heisuke's parents then had ten children of their own (six boys and four girls), so Heisuke grew up in a family of fifteen children. Of his parents' ten children, Heisuke was the second eldest having one older sister. Two of Heisuke's half-brothers were killed, one fighting against the Americans and one fighting against the Chinese. Heisuke's father was devastated and as a consequence sold his textile factory and gave up work. Heisuke attended elementary school and then middle school where he began to develop a liking for mathematics. The town of Yamaguchi is about 80 km from Hiroshima and on Monday, 6 August 1945, at 8.15 in the morning, Heisuke's father witnessed the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. They were fortunate that their area was not affected by the radiation. After middle school, Heisuke attended the boys' junior high school in Yanai. This meant that he had to take a 30 minute train journey to school every day. He started to learn to play the piano and became very keen but was advised by his teachers not to think of becoming a professional musician. After a mathematics professor from Hiroshima University gave a lecture at the junior high school, Heisuke became enthusiastic and applied to study mathematics at Hiroshima University. However he did not study for the entrance examination and failed. In the following year he applied to study physics at Kyoto University and was accepted. He was able to live with one of his sisters who had married and was living in Kyoto. Kyoto University was founded in 1897 to train small numbers of selected students as academics. By the time Hironaka entered Kyoto University in 1949, it had been integrated into a mass higher education system but had maintained its prestige. In his first year Hironaka studied physics, chemistry and biology. In his second year, however, he began to realise that he was best suited to mathematics. By his third year as an undergraduate he had moved completely to courses in mathematics. Yasuo Akizuki, a pioneer of modern algebra in Japan, was a major influence on Hironaka during his time at Kyoto. He received his Bachelor of Science in 1954 and his Master of Science in 1956, both from Kyoto University. An important event happened in 1956 when Oscar Zariski visited Kyoto University [3]:- When Zariski visited, I tried to tell him what I was doing. I have never been good in English! But my colleagues and teachers helped me to explain to him what I was doing. At some point Zariski said, "Maybe you can come to Harvard and study." And I said, "Okay." Hironaka went to the United States in the summer of 1957 where he continued his studies at Harvard. He undertook research for his doctorate, with Oscar Zariski as his thesis advisor. While at Harvard, Hironaka became friends with Alexander Grothendieck who spent the academic year 1958-59 there. He invited Hironaka to the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques in Paris in 1959-60 where he found himself the only visiting fellow. He was awarded a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1960 for his thesis On the Theory of Birational Blowing-up. He had already published three papers before submitting his thesis, On the arithmetic genera and the effective genera of algebraic curves (1957), A note on algebraic geometry over ground rings. The invariance of Hilbert characteristic functions under the specialization process (1958), and A generalized theorem of Krull-Seidenberg on parameterized algebras of finite type (1960). After completing his studies at Harvard, Hironaka was appointed to the staff at Brandeis University. Also in 1960 he married Wakako who was a Wien International Scholar at Brandeis University during 1958-60. She obtained an M.A. in Anthropology from Brandeis University Graduate School in 1964. Heisuke and Wakako Hironaka had one son Jo and one daughter Eriko. Wakako wrote several books, essays, translations, and critiques on education, culture, society, and women's issues. She entered Japanese politics being first elected to the House of Councillors in 1986. She has held high positions in the Democratic Party of Japan and in the Hosokawa Cabinet. After being on the faculty at Brandeis University, Hironaka was appointed to Columbia University, and then to Harvard in 1968. In 1970 he had the distinction of being awarded a Fields Medal at the International Congress at Nice. This was for his work on algebraic varieties which we describe below. Two algebraic varieties are said to be equivalent if there is a one-to-one correspondence between them with both the map and its inverse regular. Two varieties U and V are said to be birationally equivalent if they contain open sets U' and V' that are in biregular correspondence. Classical algebraic geometry studies properties of varieties which are invariant under birational transformations. Difficulties that arise as a result of the presence of singularities are avoided by using birational correspondences instead of biregular ones. The main problem in this area is to find a nonsingular algebraic variety U, that is birationally equivalent to an irreducible algebraic variety V, such that the mapping f:U→Vf : U \rightarrow Vf:U→V is regular but not biregular. Hironaka gave a general solution of this problem in any dimension in 1964 in Resolution of singularities of an algebraic variety over a field of characteristic zero. His work generalised that of Zariski who had proved the theorem concerning the resolution of singularities on an algebraic variety for dimension not exceeding 3. Jackson writes [3]:- Taking a strikingly original approach, Hironaka created new algebraic tools and adapted existing ones suited to the problem. These tools have proved useful for attacking many other problems quite far removed from the resolution of singularities. Hironaka talked about his solution in his lecture On resolution of singularities (characteristic zero) to the International Congress of Mathematicians in Stockholm in 1962. In 1975 Hironaka returned to Japan where he was appointed a professor in the Research Institute for Mathematical Sciences of Kyoto University. He gave a course on the theory of several complex variables in 1977 and his lecture notes were written up and published in the book Introduction to analytic spaces (Japanese). Ikuo Kimura writes:- Some fundamental theorems in the theory of several complex variables and of the geometry of complex manifolds are proved in a simple but rigorous form. ... Throughout this book one recognizes again the importance of the preparation theorem, and one finds good introductions to the study of the advanced theory of Stein spaces, the works of A Douady, and the theory of the resolution of singularities, to which Hironaka has contributed deeply. Hironaka was Director of the Research Institute in Kyoto from 1983 to 1985, retiring in 1991 when he was made Professor Emeritus. However, in1996 he became president of Yamaguchi University, being inaugurated on 16 May. He held this position until 2002. He then became Academic Director of the University of Creation, a private university in Takasaki, Gunma, Japan. We should also mention two educational projects which Hironaka has established (see [4] for details). Jackson writes [3]:- Hironaka has contributed much time and effort to encouraging young people interested in mathematics. In 1980, he started a summer seminar for Japanese high school students and later added one for Japanese and American college students; the seminars ran for more than two decades under his direction and continue to this day. To support the seminars he established a philanthropic foundation in 1984 called the Japan Association for Mathematical Sciences. The association also provides fellowships for Japanese students to pursue doctoral studies abroad. Among the many honours he has received, in addition to the Fields Medal, we mention the Japan Academy Award in 1970 and the Order of Culture from Japan in 1975. He has been elected to the Japan Academy, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and academies in France, Russia, Korea and Spain. On 4-5 May 2009 the Clay Mathematics Institute held its 2009 Clay Research Conference in Harvard Science Center. Hironaka was invited to give one of the featured lectures on recent research advances and he spoke on Resolution of Singularities in Algebraic Geometry. The abstract for his talk reads:- I will present my way of proving resolution of singularities of an algebraic variety of any dimension over a field of any characteristic. There are some points of general interest, I hope, technically and conceptually more than just the end result. The resolution problem for all arithmetic varieties (meaning algebraic schemes of finite type over the ring of integers) is reduced to the question of how to extend the result from modulo pmp^{m}pm to modulo pm+1p^{m+1}pm+1 after a resolution of singularities over Q\mathbb{Q}Q. I want to discuss certain problems which arise in this approach. Biography in Encyclopaedia Britannica. http://www.britannica.com/biography/Hironaka-Heisuke A Grothendieck, Travaux de Heisouké Hironaka sur la résolution des singularités, Actes du Congrès International des Mathématiciens, Nice 1970 1 (Paris, 1971), 7-9. A Jackson, Interview with Heisuke Hironaka, Notices Amer. Math. Soc. 52 (9) (2005), 1010-1019. H Hironaka, Fame, sweet and bitter, in Miscellanea mathematica (Springer, Berlin, 1991), 155-176. M Kashiwara, S Mori, S Mukai, K Saito, Y-T Siu, B Teissier and S S-T Yau, Dedication to Professor Heisuke Hironaka on his 77th birthday, Publ. Res. Inst. Math. Sci. 44 (2) (2008), 163. D T Le and B Teissier. On the Mathematical Work of Professor Heisuke Hironaka, Publ. Res. Inst. Math. Sci. 44 (2) (2008), 165-177. T Oda, Professor Heisuke Hironaka s Contribution in Promoting Mathematical Sciences and Bringing up Talent in New Generations, Publ. Res. Inst. Math. Sci. 44 (2) (2008), 179-182. B Teissier. Sur Heisuke Hironaka, docteur honoris causa de l'Université de Nice, Gaz. Math. No. 98 (2003), 44-48. Additional Resources (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update February 2010


--- [Heisuke Hironaka - Wikipedia] ---
Heisuke Hironaka (広中 平祐, Hironaka Heisuke; born April 9, 1931) is a Japanese mathematician who was awarded the Fields Medal in 1970 for his contributions to algebraic geometry.


--- [Hironaka Heisuke | Mathematician, Algebraic Geometry, Resolution of ...] ---
Hironaka Heisuke Hironaka Heisuke (born April 9, 1931, Yamaguchi prefecture, Japan) is a Japanese mathematician who was awarded the Fields Medal in 1970 for his work in algebraic geometry. Hironaka graduated from Kyōto University (1954) and Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S. (Ph.D., 1960); at the latter he studied under Oscar Zariski. Hironaka held an appointment at Columbia University, New York City, from 1964 to 1968, when he began teaching at Harvard. In 1975 he accepted a joint professorship at Kyōto. In addition, from 1996 to 2002 he was president of Yamaguchi University. Hironaka was awarded the Fields Medal at the International Congress of Mathematicians in Nice, France, in 1970 for a number of technical results, including the resolution of certain singularities and torus imbeddings with implications in the theory of analytic functions, and complex and Kähler manifolds. Put simply, an algebraic variety is the set of all the solutions of a system of polynomial equations in some number of variables. Nonsingular varieties would be those that may not cross themselves. The problem is whether any variety is equivalent to one that is nonsingular. Zariski had shown earlier that this was true for varieties with dimension up to three. Hironaka showed that it is true for other dimensions. - Born: - April 9, 1931, Yamaguchi prefecture, Japan (age 94) - Awards And Honors: - Fields Medal (1970) - Subjects Of Study: - algebraic geometry Hironaka’s publications include The Resolution of Singularities of an Algebraic Variety over a Field of Characteristic Zero (1963) and Lectures on Introduction to the Theory of Infinitely Near Singular Points (1971).


--- [山口大学 時間学研究所 - Yamaguchi U] ---
The Research Institute for Time Studies (RITS) at Yamaguchi University was established in April 2000 when Dr. Heisuke Hironaka was the president of the university. The aim is to create Time Studies as a new interdisciplinary area of study by understanding nature, human, society, and culture from the viewpoint of time, and for society to benefit from the research results. The activities of RITS provided an important opportunity for the establishment of the Japanese Society for Time Studies. RITS is composed of the director, six research staff members, and administrative staff. About 100 researchers on campus and outside of Yamaguchi University are involved in RITS activities in various ways. Overview of the “Time Studies” Lectures The lectures include topics on time-related areas such as developmental biology, evolution, the birth of the universe, and sociological time. In particular, students are required to understand the interaction between social time and biological time, and to consider the significance and issues of time in human life. Research groups The research organization of RITS consists of four study groups. The researchers work in a wide range of fields related to time studies such as biology, medicine, sociology, philosophy, literature, geology, psychology, economics, and social anthropology. Group 1: Fields Related to the Harmony of Social Time and Human Time In modern society, as a result of the arrival of the global information society, the tension between social time and human time has become intense. The aim of this study group is to harmonize social time and human time through the scientific research of these time categories. Group 2: Fields Related to Biological Time, Evolution and Environmental Change The research members are studying to understand how environmental changes and biological evolution interact with each other throughout the never-ending and everlasting time. The goal of the research is to elucidate what time is for organisms by obtaining experimental data using various organisms ranging from protozoa to mice. Group 3: Fields Related to Representations of Time in Multicultural Areas The question of how to represent time is closely related to cultures and organizations. We examine the difference of representations of time in multicultural areas from the perspective of thought, literature, linguistics, and so on. In addition, we study the conceptual base of time from philosophy and time-related arts. Group 4: Various Fields in Time Studies Time is an important concept in a variety of study fields. The concept of time is slightly different in each study field. In this study group, time is considered from many different perspectives in fields such as medicine, agriculture, physics, and engineering, and the possibilities of time studies are investigated.


--- [广中平佑_百度百科] ---
广中平祐简介 播报编辑 广中平祐（広中平佑，Hironaka Heisuke，1931年4月9日－），日本数学家，京都大学名誉教授，日本算术奥林匹克委员会会长，出生于日本山口县。日本学士院会员。1970年由于其在代数几何上的成就获得菲尔兹奖，时年39岁。是仅有的四位获得过菲尔兹奖的东方人（小平邦彦1954年、广中平佑1970年、邱成桐1983年、森重文1990年）之一。 简历 播报编辑 1954年毕业于日本京都大学理学部。 1960年获得哈佛大学博士学位。 1964年成功解决古典域中奇异点集的化解问题。 1968年任教于哈佛大学。 1970年9月3日，被授予菲尔兹奖，日本科学院奖。 1975年被日本政府授予“文化勋章”。 1976年入选日本科学院院士。 1996年-2002年任日本山口大学校长。 2003年任创造学园大学（予2004年开学）初任校长。 轶事 播报编辑 广中有一次用日本俳句诗人小林一茶(Kobayashi Issa)为笔名投稿。其结果是，在复变函数论中多了一个一茶定理(Issa's Theorem)。据说在读研究生时曾被老师评价为智力不足。 生平事迹 播报编辑 一个很有名的定理是广中平佑的奇点消解定理，这是30年前做的，可是在代数几何里是解能确定切定义的问题。 ——丘成桐 数学家中有的人对于各种领域和课题有强烈的价值判断，断言优劣，并毫无顾忌地贬低劣者。这样的数学家中有做出辉煌业绩者，也有无所成就者。 ——广中平佑 日本、美国数学家。生于日本山口县。1950年考入京都大学。1954年进入研究院。1956年，美国数学家扎理斯基到日本讲学，使广中平佑接触当时代数几何学最尖端的课题，对他一生产生了决定性的影响。1957年，他到美国哈佛大学学习，1959年获博士学位，他先后在马萨诸塞州布兰代斯大学和哥伦比亚大学任教，1968年起任哈佛大学教授。他直接继承和发展了扎里斯基在代数几何学方面的成果。1975年获日本文化勋章。1976年回到日本，历任京都大学教授，京都大学数理解析研究所所长、山口大学校长等职。 广中平佑上中学时，正值日本军国主义发动的侵略战争逐步走向失败，国民生活十分困苦的时期。他中学二年级就进入工厂干活，战争结束后才上高中，近20岁才上大学。由于广中平佑是长子，家里弟妹又多，因此他在年研究生期间，还得挤出时间当家教或打零工，以挣钱贴补家用。但由于刻苦勤奋和对数学的执著追求，最终成为当代著名代数几何学家。 广中平佑能进入代数几何的殿堂，主要是受三位当代代数几何大师：法国的韦伊（A.Weil）和塞尔(J.-P.Serre)，美国的扎里斯基（O.Zariski）的影响。因为他在日本京都大学年研究生期间，这三位大师先后于1955年和1956年访问了日本，他们的报告使广中平佑了解了代数几何并激发了他的兴趣。 广中平佑在1992年提议创立奥林匹克算数大赛，每年举行一次比赛，旨在发掘有数学天才的小学生，是日本数学奥林匹克竞赛的首倡者之一。 广中平佑曾用“流水般随意游玩，心底里凝神钻研，独立洞察真理之妙”来刻画日本著名数学家，菲尔兹奖和沃尔夫奖得主小邦平彦的人品，这也许正是他自己对人生的追求。 主要贡献 播报编辑 从19世纪末以来，许多数学家从事二维代数簇--代数曲面的奇点解消问题。直到20世纪30年代，扎里斯基才完全解决这个问题，后来又解决了三维代数簇问题。1964年，广中平佑运用许多新工具，细致地分析了各种情形，最后用多步归纳法才最终完全解决了任何维数的代数簇的奇点解消问题，建立了相应的定理。以后他又把这一结果向一般的复流形推广，对于一般奇点理论也做出很重要的贡献。广中平佑更荣获1970年菲尔兹奖。 著作 播报编辑 《创造之门》、《生活与学习》、《可变思维与创造》等。
