=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Revolution (Miranda Lambert album) - Wikipedia]
The album's lead single, "Dead Flowers", was released in May 2009 following Lambert's performance on the 44th Annual Academy of Country Music Awards. The song reached a peak of number 37 in July 2009 after spending sixteen weeks on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs chart.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revolution_(Miranda_Lambert_album)

[Rewinding the Country Charts: In 2009, Miranda Lambert’s ...]
Oct 17, 2019 · The album also spun off her first two Hot Country Songs leaders. By Jim Asker On Oct. 17, 2009, Miranda Lambert‘s Revolution debuted at No. 1 on Billboard‘s Top Country Albums chart. Her third ...
URL: https://www.billboard.com/pro/miranda-lambert-revolution-rewinding-the-country-charts-2009/

[Revolution - Plugged In]
Sep 29, 2009 · Album Review Miranda Lambert is a petite Texan spitfire who unapologetically brandishes guns and humiliates ex-boyfriends. She claims to have whiskey running through her veins. And Esquire magazine named her 2008’s “Terrifying Woman of the Year.” So it surprised no one that she mined themes of hyperbolic, honky-tonk retribution for all they were worth on her first two albums, Kerosene ...
URL: https://www.pluggedin.com/album-reviews/mirandalambert-revolution/

[FLASHBACK FRIDAY: Miranda Lambert Releases Revolution In 2009]
Revolution would go on to win ACM and CMA Album Of The Year honors. Miranda Lambert continued her success with the albums following Revolution, as Four The Record, Platinum and her latest double-album The Weight Of These Wings also all debut at number-one on the Country Album Chart.
URL: https://prep.sonymusicnashville.com/flashback-friday-miranda-lambert-releases-revolution-in-2009/

[On This Date: Miranda Lambert Releases Her Third Studio Album ...]
Sep 29, 2023 · It’s been 14 whole years since Miranda Lambert released her third studio album, Revolution. The record debuted at #1 on the Billboard U.S. Top Country Albums chart in 2009, and was her third consecutive #1 album after Kerosene in 2005 and Crazy Ex-Girlfriend in 2007.
URL: https://www.whiskeyriff.com/2023/09/29/on-this-date-miranda-lambert-releases-her-third-studio-album-revolution-in-2009/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Revolution (Miranda Lambert album) - Wikipedia] ---
Revolution is the third studio album by American country music singer Miranda Lambert. It was released on September 29, 2009, via Columbia Records Nashville. The album includes the singles "Dead Flowers", "White Liar", "The House That Built Me", "Only Prettier", and "Heart Like Mine", all of which charted on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs chart.
Revolution won the Album of the Year award at the Academy of Country Music Awards and at the Country Music Association Awards in 2010.


--- [Rewinding the Country Charts: In 2009, Miranda Lambert’s ...] ---
Rewinding the Country Charts: In 2009, Miranda Lambert’s ‘Revolution’ Roared In at No. 1 The album also spun off her first two Hot Country Songs leaders. On Oct. 17, 2009, Miranda Lambert‘s Revolution debuted at No. 1 on Billboard‘s Top Country Albums chart. Her third studio set marked her third straight leader on the list, following Crazy Ex-Girlfriend in 2007 and Kerosene in 2005. Revolution generated five singles, including Lambert’s first two Hot Country Songs No. 1s – “The House That Built Me” and “Heart Like Mine” – plus the No. 2-peaking “White Liar” and the top 40 hits “Only Prettier” and “Dead Flowers.” In 2010, the LP was named album of the year by both the Academy of Country Music and the Country Music Association. Lambert has posted six consecutive No. 1 debuts on Top Country Albums, second only to Carrie Underwood’s seven. She’ll have a chance to tie the streak with Wildcard, due Nov. 1. The album’s lead single, “It All Comes Out in the Wash,” ranks at No. 22 on the Hot Country Songs chart (dated Oct. 19). Meanwhile, Lambert is continuing her Roadside Bars and Pink Guitars Tour, which runs through Nov. 23 in Greensboro, North Carolina.


--- [Revolution - Plugged In] ---
Error 403 Forbidden Forbidden Error 54113 Details: cache-fra-etou8220023-FRA 1772540153 3673464230 Varnish cache server


--- [FLASHBACK FRIDAY: Miranda Lambert Releases Revolution In 2009] ---
Flashback to the September 2009, when Miranda Lambert released her landmark album Revolution. Miranda Lambert was a rising star in country music when she released her third album, Revolution on September 29th 2009. With the release of the album, Miranda became a bona fide star with the success of three number-one singles from the project–“White Liar,” “Heart Like Mine,” and her signature hit “The House That Built Me.” Upon its release, Revolution topped the Country Album Chart at number-one. This was Miranda’s third album to do so, following Crazy Ex-Girlfriend and Kerosene. Revolution would go on to win ACM and CMA Album Of The Year honors. Miranda Lambert continued her success with the albums following Revolution, as Four The Record, Platinum and her latest double-album The Weight Of These Wings also all debut at number-one on the Country Album Chart. Those projects have combined for a total of 7 Album Of The Year awards, between the ACMs and CMAs. The Weight Of These Wings is nominated in the Album Of The Year category for this year’s CMA Awards in November, thanks to hit songs like “Vice,” “We Should Be Friends,” and Miranda’s current single “Tin Man.” Miranda Lambert talks about recording her album Revolution. (:39) “We made it like a record. I mean, we went in for a week and cut an album. We didn’t go in for a day and cut a single or an album track or just a random song to stick somewhere at number seven. Every song matters. Every song is…it’s part of a picture, and if one’s missing, the picture’s not complete. And, you know, this is really a piece of art, and I’m really proud of it. And I feel like if people just buy one song off this album, they’re not gonna understand what it’s about and who I am because I really found myself creatively and just opened up artistically. And I feel like it’s not fair to the record to buy one song because they all need to be heard.” Produced Rewind 30 and 60 second version (Non-Announcer versions labeled with “NO VT”) Produced Rewind September 2009 Miranda Lambert 30 seconds Produced Rewind September 2009 Miranda Lambert 30 seconds (NO VT version) “It’s a country music rewind” “to this week in 2009” “8 years ago, Miranda Lambert released her album Revolution.” “Music from Miranda Lambert is available now” Produced Rewind September 2009 Miranda Lambert 60 seconds Produced Rewind September 2009 Miranda Lambert 60 seconds (NO VT version) “It’s a country music rewind” “to this week in 2009” “8 years ago, Miranda Lambert released her album Revolution, which produced 3 number-one songs, including her signature hit ‘The House That Built Me’.” “Music from Miranda Lambert is available now”


--- [On This Date: Miranda Lambert Releases Her Third Studio Album ...] ---
It’s been 14 whole years since Miranda Lambert released her third studio album, Revolution. The record debuted at #1 on the Billboard U.S. Top Country Albums chart in 2009, and was her third consecutive #1 album after Kerosene in 2005 and Crazy Ex-Girlfriend in 2007. It also won Album of the Year award at the ACMs and at the CMAs in 2010. While it produced one of her biggest hits and signature songs, “The House That Built Me”, there’s quite a few other tracks on the record that don’t get the credit they deserve. Aside from her #1 hit “House,” it produced four other fantastic singles in “Dead Flowers,” “White Liar,” “Only Prettier,” and “Heart Like Mine.” Every last one of those songs is top notch and Miranda at her finest in terms of her songwriting ability, but deep cuts like “Me and Your Cigarettes” and “Love Song” could’ve just as easily been singles, as well. It also features a stellar cover of John Prine’s “That’s the Way That the World Goes ‘Round.” Miranda wrote or co-wrote all but four out of the 15 songs on the album’s tracklist, and I think that’s pretty apparent when you listen to it from top to bottom. It’s a deeply personal record where she’s open about her struggles with life, love and everything in between. Not only was this a #1 album for Miranda, but it allowed her to show off more of her softer side after earning a bit of a reputation with previous songs we all know and love like “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend” and “Kerosene,” which she has noted before was not done by accident. If you haven’t listened to this record in a while, today is the perfect day to knock the dust off and give it a spin. I would easily put it at or near the top of my list when it comes to my favorite Miranda albums, and to say it’s as quality as they come would be a massive understatement. It resonates just as deeply now as it did then, but probably even more so for me. I realized in writing this that that she put this project out when she was 25, almost my exact age now and damn it if I don’t understand every single line of every single song. It’s the definition of timeless. And if you’ve never heard “Me and Your Cigarettes” or “Dead Flowers” before or haven’t listened to it in a while, it will remind you why she’s remained the top female country artist of the last decade or so. I mean, good Lord, who else is writing stuff like this in mainstream country? “Me and Your Cigarettes” “Dead Flowers” “Heart Like Mine” “Only Prettier”
