=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mingus Mapps - Wikipedia]
Mapps, a former political science professor, promised during his campaign to reform Portland's police department, [2] pass policies that protect renters, [6] expand mental health response teams called "Portland Street Response" [7] in all parts of the city to reduce homelessness, [6] and pay for more mental health services. [6] He is the third black male ever to serve as a Portland ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mingus_Mapps

[Mayor Wheeler to maintain role as Portland police commissioner in 2021]
Dec 23, 2020 · Commissioner-elect Mingus Mapps, who defeated incumbent Chloe Eudaly in the November election, will be the third Black man in city history to serve on council.
URL: https://www.kgw.com/article/news/local/mayor-wheeler-to-maintain-role-as-portland-police-commissioner-in-2021/283-f9de2149-b8aa-4da1-9c50-49fe1d45c2f0

[Jo Ann Hardesty - Portland City Commissioner 2019-2023 - Oregon Mental ...]
Jan 5, 2023 · After emerging as the winner of a historic grassroots campaign for Portland City Council with 62% of the vote, Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty was officially sworn in on January 2nd, 2019 – becoming the first Black woman to serve as a City Commissioner in the history of Portland.
URL: https://www.oregonarchive.org/32551-2/

[Former Commissioner Rene Gonzalez - Portland.gov]
Rene Gonzalez is the Portland City Commissioner of Public Safety. He believes that Portland should be a safe and livable city that works for all, no exceptions. His office is committed to confronting our toughest challenges while working to build a positive, unifying vision for the future.
URL: https://www.portland.gov/gonzalez

[Portland Commissioner-elect Mingus Mapps explains goals]
Nov 13, 2020 — After defeating incumbent Chloe Eudaly, Mingus Mapps, who will be the third Black man ever on Portland City Council, discusses what he hopes ...
URL: https://www.kgw.com/article/entertainment/television/programs/straight-talk/straight-talk-portland-oregon-mingus-mapps-city-council/283-c294f104-d0fb-4ab2-a2f8-3503b849366f


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mingus Mapps - Wikipedia] ---
Mingus Ulysses Mapps (born April 9, 1968) is an American professor and politician in Portland, Oregon. He was elected to the city council in November 2020, winning 56% of the vote. His bureau assignments as of September 2023 are Water Bureau, the Bureau of Environmental Service and the Bureau of Transportation (PBOT)


--- [Mayor Wheeler to maintain role as Portland police commissioner in 2021] ---
PORTLAND, Ore — Mayor Ted Wheeler will maintain his role as the Portland Police Bureau's (PPB) commissioner in 2021. On Wednesday, Wheeler announced the city commissioners' bureau assignments effective at the start of the new year. The mayor traditionally has taken on the role of police commissioner. Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty, a longtime supporter of police reform who has criticized Wheeler's response to racial justice protests, expressed in July that she would be willing to take on the role of police commissioner. "I demand action right now. Mayor Wheeler, if you can't control the police, give me the Portland Police Bureau," Hardesty wrote in an open letter to the mayor. This year, Hardesty oversaw three first responder bureaus: Portland Fire & Rescue, the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management and the Bureau of Emergency Communications. In a July interview with KGW's Laural Porter, she said "I never wanted the police bureau. But, I believe there's some logic in having all the first responder bureaus under one commissioner. And I would take it, because we are doing this transformation, if the mayor offered it." Shortly after the interview, Wheeler responded by saying he planned to continue his role as police commissioner. "I will continue to serve as police commissioner through this time of transformation," he said. "And I will continue to work with elected leaders from the county and the state to ensure that we are examining the criminal justice system as a whole." Portland's commissioners will make up the most diverse city council in the city's history. Commissioner-elect Mingus Mapps, who defeated incumbent Chloe Eudaly in the November election, will be the third Black man in city history to serve on council. He will join Commissioner Dan Ryan, who is openly gay, and Comissioner-elect Carmen Rubio, who is Latinx. Here are the Portland city commissioner's bureau assignments effective Jan. 1, 2021: Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty - Portland Bureau of Transportation - Portland Fire & Rescue - Office of Community and Civic Life Liaison Responsibilities - Portland Mall Management, Inc. - Portland Aerial Tram Board - Portland Streetcar, Inc. - Joint Policy Advisory Committee on Transportation - Local Public Safety Coordinating Council (with Mayor Wheeler) - Public Involvement Advisory Council - Regional Disaster Policy Organization - Fair & Moral Claims Committee - New Portlanders Policy Council Commissioner Mingus Mapps - Portland Water Bureau - Bureau of Environmental Services - Bureau of Emergency Communications Liaison Responsibilities - Travel Portland - Visitors Development Fund - BOEC User Board - Fair & Moral Claims Committee Commissioner Carmen Rubio - Portland Parks & Recreation - Bureau of Planning and Sustainability - Office of Community Technology Liaison Responsibilities - Regional Arts and Culture Council - Portland’5 Centers for the Arts - Mt. Hood Cable Regulatory Commission - Portland Community Media - League of Cities - Metro Policy Advisory Council Commissioner Dan Ryan - Portland Housing Bureau - Bureau of Development Services - Joint Office of Homeless Services Liaison Responsibilities - Rose Festival - Portland Children’s Levy - Home Forward - Multnomah County Animal Control - Multnomah Youth Commission - Royal Rosarians - A Home For Everyone (with Mayor Wheeler) Mayor Ted Wheeler - City Budget Office - Office of Management and Finance - Office of Government Relations - Office of the City Attorney - Portland Police Bureau - Prosper Portland - Portland Bureau of Emergency Management - Office of Equity and Human Rights - Office of Violence Prevention Liaison Responsibilities - Regional Disaster Policy Organization - A Home For Everyone (with Commissioner Ryan) - Local Public Safety Coordinating Council (with Commissioner Hardesty) - Venture Portland - Human Rights Commission


--- [Jo Ann Hardesty - Portland City Commissioner 2019-2023 - Oregon Mental ...] ---
Portland Street Response Pilot Launched, Expanded, & Evaluated In February, the long anticipated launch of the initial Portland Street Response (PSR) pilot team occurred as they began taking calls dispatched from 911 to offer an unarmed response for people suffering from a mental or behavioral health crisis. For the first two months of the pilot, the team responded to calls solely in the Lents neighborhood during limited hours. This first shift was composed of a firefighter paramedic, a licensed clinical social worker and two community health workers. After 2 months the pilot boundaries were expanded to cover eight Portland Police Bureau (PPB) districts in the greater Lents area. In April, the PSR team also started responding to additional call types: for a person either outside or inside of a publicly accessible space such as a business, store, public lobby, etc. The team also started co-responding with Portland Fire & Rescue on certain public burning calls (such as outside warming and cooking fires) to offer wrap-around service assistance. Portland State University, the outside evaluator hired by the City to determine if PSR is meeting its goals, released its six-month report and presented the results to City Council. Dr. Greg Townley, director of research at PSU’s Homelessness Research & Action Collaborative and the lead evaluator, reported that the investigators believe Portland Street Response was well on its way to becoming a citywide solution to responding to 911 and non-emergency calls involving unhoused people and people experiencing a mental or behavioral health crisis. Key findings included: ● A 4.6% reduction in total calls traditionally responded to by police. ● A 22.5% reduction in police response on non-emergency welfare checks as well as dispatches coded as “unwanted persons” and “suspicious persons” calls. ● A 11.6% reduction in fire department activity on behavioral health calls and illegal burn calls. ● Clients rated PSR 5 on a scale of 1-5 with 5 being the best. In November, PSR embarked on its next expansion with the launch of its night shift and additional team members including a Firefighter/EMT, a Mental Health Crisis Responder, and two Peer Support Specialists. This increased the boundary from 13 square miles to 36 square miles. In November, Portland City Council voted to release $2 million in funding to PSR as part of the Fall Budget Monitoring Process, paving the way for citywide expansion. Portland Fire & Rescue Vaccination Effort Portland Fire & Rescue teamed up with Multnomah County health officials to administer tens of thousands of vaccinations across clinics throughout Portland that were primarily focused on targeted outreach to BIPOC and harder to reach communities. To promote vaccination efforts knowing that Black communities have a valid historical distrust of government vaccines – Commissioner Hardesty received her vaccination from Portland Fire & Rescue on video. Her office also worked with the county to promote a webpage including details about the diversity in COVID-19 vaccine studies to help alleviate concerns. Mount Scott-Arleta Violence Intervention Pilot Following the destabilizing effects of the pandemic, gun violence skyrocketed nationwide, and Portland was no exception. The Portland City Council made a historic investment in community-based organizations that interrupt violence and address upstream solutions – but more urgent action was lacking. Community members in the Mt. Scott-Arleta neighborhood observed a correlation between gun violence and high-speed traffic and proposed an intervention. Commissioner Hardesty’s staff worked with PBOT experts and residents to explore options for how the deployment of temporary traffic control devices could help discourage or mitigate the effects of gun violence. Commissioner Hardesty’s office and PBOT were not alone, as the intervention became a collaborative effort involving PBOT, Parks & Recreation, OMF Division of Community Safety, Portland Police Bureau, and local community residents. The all-hands-on deck, holistic response: PBOT placed 18 traffic calming barrels as requested by neighbors Parks & Recreation increased Park Ranger patrol and repaired lighting in Mt. Scott Park Portland Police Bureau increased patrols to area, enhanced collaboration with Park Rangers Commissioner Hardesty’s office surveyed residents in area to capture their concerns and ideas City staff spoke with local businesses, encouraged installation of security cameras Built upon partnership with Multnomah County Youth Violence Prevention Office Police Accountability Commission Recruitment & Appointment The Portland City Council came together during the summer of 2020 to unanimously send a ballot measure to voters to create a new system of independent police oversight. An important piece of building trust in our police bureau will be a system of oversight and accountability with a structure that centers the community the police are sworn to protect and serve. The ballot measure stipulated the next step in the process would be recruiting and appointing a group of community members that would have 18 months to create a framework and structure for the final police oversight board approved by 82% of Portland voters. After reviewing applicants, The Police Accountability Commission was appointed unanimously by Council. The Commission is composed of individuals from community justice organizations, small businesses impacted by community safety issues, and people from overpoliced communities, such as Black, Indigenous and People of Color (BIPOC), immigrants, refugees, people living with low-income, experiencing houselessness, and/or mental health or substance use. Interim Director Michael Montoya Appointed to Stabilize Office of Community & Civic Life Commissioner Jo Ann Hardesty appointed Michael Montoya as the interim director for the Office of Community & Civic Life. Montoya formally served as Civic Life’s strategy, innovation & performance manager. Commissioner Hardesty knew the Office of Community and Civic Life needed a year of transformation and healing and believed Montoya was the leader for the moment to foster a stronger, more resilient, more responsive bureau. Under Montoya’s leadership, the Office of Community & Civic life moved on from past controversies and proceeded with important work – including the nationally renown Cannabis program and efforts to support our immigrant and refugee communities. Year 3 Annual Budget Process Commissioner Hardesty expressed process concerns that the community and council was not involved enough in the deliberation of her third annual budget. One of the most contentious debates during this budget was whether to fully fund the expansion of Portland Street Response citywide. By a 3-2 vote, Council voted down an amendment for PSR expansion. Later during the Fall Budget Monitoring Process, Commissioner Hardesty was able to secure Council support for expansion. Despite disappointment that her PSR amendment was voted down, the budget had been significantly improved by other proposed amendments. Commissioner Hardesty ultimately voted yes on a budget that included: Funding for staff support for the voter approved police oversight board. Funding support for alternative shelter program to allow safe sleeping options for those currently sleeping on our streets. Funding to support a Truth and Reconciliation process between the Portland Police Bureau and community members of the City of Portland. Increased resources to the City African American Network. Increased funding for the Gateway Center for Domestic Violence Services. Directed PBOT to develop new revenue sources that reflect Portland’s climate goals and addresses the bureaus structural deficit Continued to fund the Portland Bureau of Transportation’s Healthy Businesses program, allowing the creative use of space to provide outdoor dining, drinking, and more. This provided a lifeline to small businesses operating during the pandemic. Increased money to Neighborhood District Coalitions and reinstated the small grant program to Neighborhood Associations. Funded a citywide anti-white supremacy training for city staff. Avoided cuts to the budget of Portland Fire & Rescue. Transfer of 82nd Avenue from State to City Control with $180 Million Investment A long-held priority for East Portland residents, the City of Portland and the State of Oregon agreed to transfer 82nd Ave from State to City Control following decades of organizing. Commissioner Hardesty was part of the coalition of elected leaders and community advocates who successfully advocated for, negotiated, and secured the transfer with substantial funding. The transfer included $80 million in state funding on top of an additional $70 million pledged by the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT), plus $35 million committed from PBOT for a total of over $180 million. The historic transfer and investment will make possible the transformative changes community has been calling for on 82nd Avenue for decades. This would not have been possible without community advocates calling attention to the long record of traffic violence on this high-crash corridor. This was a truly collaborative effort that highlighted the importance of diversity in representation for East Portland. which includes many of the most diverse neighborhoods in Portland. Rapid Street Safety Improvements Responding to a record rise in traffic-related fatalities, Commissioner Hardesty introduced and passed an emergency budget amendment during the summer that allocated $450,000 for rapid street safety improvements on high-crash corridors. These high-crash streets are disproportionately in East Portland. They generally are in areas with higher rates of people living on low incomes and people who are Black, Indigenous or People of Color. The High-Crash Corridor safety interventions included: Speed safety cameras Increased safety and visibility at intersections Turn-calming infrastructure like rubber bumps Center turn lane delineation Speed limit reductions High-crash intersection warning signs Safe Routes to School 2021 saw many children return to school in person for the first time since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, which made it vital to enhance investments in PBOT’s Safe Routes to School program. Commissioner Hardesty secured that funding boost from Council. These dollars funded safety infrastructure on primary school routes such as crossing, sidewalks, and traffic calming. PBOT Healthy Business Permit Extension Commissioner Hardesty championed and secured council support for an extension of PBOT’s Healthy Businesses permit program by allocating $3.5 million from federal American Rescue Plan Act funding to continue the program while waiving all permit fees through 2021. The Healthy Businesses program was created in the first months of the COVID-19 public health emergency. Providing much needed sidewalk and street space, it allowed Portland businesses and their customers to continue operating in a safe and healthy way during the pandemic. PBOT agreed to waive all fees to support business resiliency in the face of unprecedented economic challenges. Restaurants, bars, and other small businesses represent many of the pillars of the Portland economy. By providing businesses, especially restaurants, with more outdoor space, the Healthy Businesses program directly helped pull many back from the brink of disaster. As one participating business said, “Without those outdoor seats, we’d be closed and there wouldn’t have been a penny for anyone, or jobs for the 50 people we’ve got working now.” Portland Public Plaza Expansion A priority during the summer of 2021, PBOT rolled out numerous new public plazas around the city in partnership with local organizations, businesses, and neighborhoods. These included the Northeast Dream Street Plaza, “A Black-centered space for community and microenterprise in historic Albina.” It also included the downtown Pride Plaza, “a new LGBTQ+ friendly neighborhood gathering space with street art, public seating, community activities, and expanded space for businesses into the street.” Ankeny Food Carts Upon becoming Transportation Commissioner in 2021, Commissioner Hardesty asked her staff to bring together PBOT, Prosper Portland, Parks, and council colleagues to rejuvenate the process of finding a home for many of the food carts displaced by the construction of a Ritz-Carlton luxury hotel downtown. Permitting solutions were found and the city was finally able to get food carts placed and operational in a beautiful new space. Additionally, Commissioner Hardesty successfully advocated for a funding package to revitalize O’Bryant Square across from the Ankeny Food Carts as part of the connecting vision of the Green Loop downtown. Increasing Waterfront Access to the Willamette River In collaboration with the Human Access Project, Commissioner Hardesty directed PBOT to help make Duckworth Dock a safer and more accessible place for Portlanders to cool down and hang out in the Willamette River during Portland’s increasingly hot summers. This included providing eight new ladders from the dock to the river, slow no-wake buoys for safety from river traffic, a bike rack, a life ring, and opportunities for live music. Also related to waterfront access, Commissioner Hardesty worked with Human Access Project and Commissioner Mapps, who introduced an amendment to conduct a feasibility study that could contribute to a vision for increased public access to Portland’s beautiful but underutilized waterfront. New Green Revenue Sources There is no debate – climate change is here and its effects on Portland have been catastrophic. This was clear during the tragic heatwave we experienced during the summer of 2020. PBOT is in a position to lead our transition to a sustainable green Portland that is less reliant on cars, with increased access to healthier, safer options for travel: from public transit to biking to scooters and more. Today revenue sources for PBOT have an inherent contradiction toward meeting Portland’s climate mitigation goals, because so much of their revenue derives from fossil fuel infrastructure such as parking fees. During the budget process of 2021, PBOT was formally directed to explore new revenue sources that can adequately fund Portland’s transportation needs without relying on fossil fuel infrastructure. Division Transit Project SE Division Street is a high-crash corridor that is most dangerous in Outer East Portland. The Division Transit project included critical safety improvements like crosswalks with signals, new crosswalks near bus stops, better lighting, protected bike lanes, and medians for pedestrians crossing the street. TriMet also unveiled their new “FX – Frequent Express” transit service to provide faster, more frequent, and more sustainable service to SE Division Street from Gresham to downtown Portland. The City of Portland heard from the community that people wanted this to be more than just a transit project. They also wanted safety, jobs, and housing for the people in our community. That’s what was delivered. This project also hired Raimore Construction, awarding the largest construction contract for a minority contractor in Oregon history.


--- [Former Commissioner Rene Gonzalez - Portland.gov] ---
See something we could improve on this page? Give website feedback. informational alert Portland and the federal government Learn about our sanctuary city status, efforts to block federal overreach: Portland.gov/Federal


--- [Portland Commissioner-elect Mingus Mapps explains goals] ---
PORTLAND, Ore. — Portland voters made history on Nov. 3 by electing just the third Black man in city history to serve on city council. In defeating incumbent Chloe Eudaly, Mingus Mapps will also become part of the city's most diverse council, with a majority of minority members. Mapps will join the first Black woman on the council, Jo Ann Hardesty, and the first Latinx member, Carmen Rubio. Mapps follows in the footsteps of the first Black city commissioner, Charles Jordan, who spent 10 years on city council beginning in 1974. He then served 14 years as director of Portland Parks and Recreation and is credited with being a pioneer for the city's park system, implementing landmark and lasting programs, including the free annual Movies in the Park series. The second Black man on Portland City Council was Dick Bogle, who served on the council from 1984 to 1993. Bogle was also one of the first Black police officers in Portland, and the first Black television newscaster. It's been 28 years since Bogle was on the council. Commissioner-elect Mapps was a guest this week on "Straight Talk," and called this moment in history both profound and personally humbling. "It was less than 100 years ago Oregon repealed the last of its Black exclusion laws," Mapps explained. "Those were the laws that prevented African Americans from even just existing here in Oregon. And now I am the third African American man to serve on city council. And we have a majority of minorities on council. I am incredibly excited for this team." Meeting with Mayor Wheeler Commissioner-elect Mapps' first meeting since the election with Mayor Ted Wheeler was scheduled for Friday. Mapps expected to talk about the transition to city hall and pressing issues facing the city such as the COVID-19 crisis, homelessness and police reform. Mapps also expressed admiration for the mayor, as well as his new colleagues. "Carmen Rubio has done amazing work over at the Latino Network," he said. "Jo Ann Hardesty is a true Portland trail blazer and a civil rights hero. And I hope people won't forget Dan Ryan is also an important civil rights hero and trail blazer. He will be only the second openly gay man to serve on Portland City Council." Ryan is also the first council member openly living with HIV. Mapps said he's been in touch with all the council members in some way, either by text, phone or social media. He said everyone at city hall has been incredibly helpful, constructive, and gracious in smoothing the way to his transition into his new commissioner's role. Message to Commissioner Chloe Eudaly In her concession speech, Commissioner Chloe Eudaly said she felt the election of Mapps was a step backward for progress in the city. We were poised to have one of the most progressive city councils, but with the wins by Ted Wheeler and Mingus Mapps, we've taken a step back," she said. Mapps said he recognizes elections are tough and appeared unfazed by her post-election comments. "I want to thank Commissioner Eudaly for her service to the city," he said. "Elections are hard and election nights are particularly hard.. What I want to do is bring every Portlander to the table to address the incredible challenges we face at this moment." Condemns violence and destruction Although, he won't be sworn in until January, Mapps has already jumped into action calling out people involved in violent and destructive protests. After, a small group of demonstrators vandalized Commissioner Dan Ryan's home on Nov. 5, Mapps held a video news conference with two dozen Black community leaders, and denounced what they called a "campaign of intimidation and vandalism.” Earlier that day, Ryan had voted against a city council amendment to cut $18 million from Portland Police Bureau (PPB) budget. On Straight Talk, Mapps said the violence and destruction makes no sense. "It's not just Commissioner Ryan," Mapps said. "It's small businesses and everybody facing violence. A couple of days ago, the Democratic Party's headquarters in Multnomah County was vandalized. This makes no sense. This is not the Portland way. We can disagree. But, let's leave the violence, the intimidation and the arson in the past," he said. Under pressure to make substantive police reform Community activists say they're watching Mapps and the other commissioners to see what changes the council makes when it comes to police reform. Candace Avalos, the chair of the Citizen Review Committee, told The Oregonian there's an active community pushing for transformational change. "I will always give them a chance, but I will be keeping a very close eye. They're in the hot seat right now," Avalos told The Oregonian. Mapps said he thinks the debate over police reform could be framed in a different way. He thinks instead of picking dollar figures of how much to cut from PPB, the discussion should be centered on the kind of public safety system the community wants. "So, I don't know if that means a $50 million cut, or $10 million, or reallocating resources from one program to another," Mapps said. "What we really need to focus on are the outcomes we want. After that, we can figure out the budgeting." Addressing the COVID 19 pandemic In addition to police reform, Commissioner-elect Mapps said addressing the COVID-19 crisis is a top priority. He pleaded with citizens to wear masks, social distance, and when coming together with family and friends, to keep gatherings small. "We really are in the darkest days of the pandemic," Mapps said. "And everyone needs to pay attention to the advice given by the governor and our health care authorities." Homelessness A third priority is finding solutions to the homelessness crisis. He said he's deeply concerned about people sleeping on the streets with COVID spreading and the rain and cold weather upon us. "As a community, I think we should find safe places for our houseless neighbors to sleep, somewhere they can be out of danger and have access to hygiene services, and hopefully medical care, too," he said. Mapps said he and his team are studying the mayor's plan to move houseless people off the sidewalks and into city shelters, and possibly large managed camps. He hopes to learn more in the coming weeks as he prepares to officially take his seat on the Portland City Council. 'Time to get to work' Mapps thanked everyone who participated on Election Day, but he said now is the time to move beyond that and asked for everyone's help. "It's time to get to work," he said. "I invite everybody to come to the table to figure out how we make progress on COVID, homelessness, and police reform. We're going to need all hands on deck all throughout the winter." Straight Talk airs Friday at 7 p.m., Saturday at 4:30 p.m., Sunday at 10 a.m. after "Meet The Press," and Monday morning at 4:30 a.m. Straight Talk is also available on podcast.
