=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lyndon B. Johnson - Wikipedia]
The job helped him to save money to complete his education, and he graduated in 1930 with a Bachelor of Science in history and his certificate of qualification as a high school teacher. [19][20] He briefly taught at Pearsall High School in Pearsall, Texas before taking a position teaching public speaking at Sam Houston High School in Houston. [21]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyndon_B._Johnson

[Lyndon B. Johnson Biography: 36th U.S. President Timeline & Life]
He taught Mexican kids in Cotulla, Texas at Welhausen School in 1927. He also taught at Pearsall High School in 1930 in Pearsall, Texas. He also taught public speaking at Sam Houston High School in Houston, Texas. After briefly teaching in Houston, Johnson entered politics. Lyndon B. Johnson's Early Political Career
URL: https://totallyhistory.com/lyndon-b-johnson/

[The Junction School - The Historical Marker Database]
Aug 16, 2025 · Lyndon Johnson As a former teacher, Lyndon Johnson understood the importance of education and its ability to transform people’s lives. His presidential years saw an unprecedented wave of over 60 education bills which continue to make a difference in the lives of millions of Americans. A small selection of President Johnson’s education legacy.
URL: https://www.hmdb.org/m.asp?m=91132

[Junction School, Friends of Gillespie County Country Schools]
A brief history of Junction School Built in 1911. Consolidated in 1947. On April 11, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson returned to his school and asked his first teacher, Ms. Kate Deadrich, to witness the signing of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. It was one of more than 60 education bills he signed that committed more than $1.5 billion in Federal funds to public education. History ...
URL: https://www.historicschools.org/junction-school.html

[Junction School - Lyndon B Johnson National Historical Park (U.S ...]
On January 2, 2024 the Texas White House Complex closed so the construction phase of the Texas White House rehabilitation can begin. The LBJ Ranch driving tour remains open. Visitors can still see the school, cemetery, birthplace and showbarn. More
URL: https://www.nps.gov/lyjo/learn/historyculture/junctionschool.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lyndon B. Johnson - Wikipedia] ---
Lyndon Baines Johnson (; August 27, 1908 – January 22, 1973), also known as LBJ, was the 36th president of the United States, serving from 1963 to 1969. He became president after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, under whom he had served as the 37th vice president from 1961 to 1963. A Southern Democrat, Johnson previously represented Texas in Congress for over 23 years, first as a U.S. representative from 1937 to 1949, and then as a U.S. senator from 1949 to 1961.
Born in Stonewall, Texas, Johnson worked as a teacher and a congressional aide before winning election to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1937. In 1948, he was controversially declared the winner in the Democratic primary for the U.S. Senate election in Texas before winning the general election. He became Senate majority whip in 1951, Senate Democratic leader in 1953 and majority leader in 1954. Senator Kennedy bested Johnson and his other rivals for the 1960 Democratic presidential nomination before surprising many by offering to make Johnson his vice presidential running mate. The Kennedy–Johnson ticket won the general election. Vice President Johnson assumed the presidency in 1963, after President Kennedy was assassinated. The following year, Johnson won reelection to the presidency in a landslide, winning the largest share of the popular vote for the Democratic Party in history, and the highest for any candidate since the advent of widespread popular elections in the 1820s.
Johnson's domestic policy agenda known as the Great Society was aimed at expanding civil rights, public broadcasting, access to health care, aid to education and the arts, urban and rural development, consumer protection, environmentalism, and public services. He sought to create better living conditions for low-income Americans by spearheading the War on Poverty. As part of these efforts, Johnson signed the Social Security Amendments of 1965, which resulted in the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. Johnson made the Apollo program a national priority; enacted the Higher Education Act of 1965 which established federally insured student loans; and signed the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 which laid the groundwork for U.S. immigration policy today. Johnson's civil rights legacy was shaped by the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Civil Rights Act of 1968. Due to his domestic agenda, Johnson's presidency marked the peak of modern American liberalism in the 20th century. Johnson's foreign policy prioritized containment of communism, including in the ongoing Vietnam War.
Johnson began his presidency with near-universal support, but his approval declined throughout his presidency as the public became frustrated with both the Vietnam War and domestic unrest, including race riots, increasing public skepticism with his reports and policies (coined the credibility gap), and increasing crime. Johnson initially sought to run for re-election in 1968; however, following disappointing results in the New Hampshire primary, he withdrew his candidacy. Johnson retired to his Texas ranch and kept a low public profile until he died in 1973. Public opinion and academic assessments of Johnson's legacy have fluctuated greatly. Historians and scholars rank Johnson in the upper tier for his accomplishments regarding domestic policy. His administration passed many major laws that made substantial changes in civil rights, health care, welfare, and education. Conversely, Johnson is heavily criticized for his foreign policy, namely escalating American involvement in the Vietnam War.




--- [Lyndon B. Johnson Biography: 36th U.S. President Timeline & Life] ---
| Lyndon B. Johnson | | |---|---| | 36th United States President « Previous Next » | | | In office | Nov. 22, 1963 – Jan. 20, 1969 | | V. President | Hubert Humphrey | | Political Party | Democratic | | Personal Info | | | Born | Aug. 27, 1908 | | Died | Jan. 22, 1973 (at age 64) | | Religion | Disciples of Christ | | School | Southwest Texas State Teachers College | | Profession | Teacher | | Signature | | | Wife | Lady Bird Taylor | | Children | Lynda Bird Johnson Robb Luci Baines Johnson | | U.S. Presidents 36-43 | | | 36. Lyndon B. Johnson (1963-1969) | | | 37. Richard Nixon (1969-1974) | | | 38. Gerald Ford (1974-1977) | | | 39. Jimmy Carter (1977-1981) | | | 40. Ronald Reagan (1981-1989) | | | 41. George H. W. Bush (1989-1993) | | | 42. Bill Clinton (1993-2001) | | | 43. George W. Bush (2001-2009) | | | List of All the Presidents | Lyndon B. Johnson, or LBJ as he was popularly known, was born on August 27, 1908. He became President of the United States of America, the 36th, from 1963 to 1969. He became President after serving as Vice President of the country from 1961 to 1963. He was born in Stonewall, Texas to Rebekah Baines and Samuel Ealy Johnson, Jr. He was the first born of 5 children, 3 girls and 2 boys. His father was a member of the Texas House of Representatives and a businessman while his mother was the daughter of Joseph Baines, a state legislator. The Johnson’s were of English and Scots-Irish ancestry. Not far from Stonewall is Johnson City, a small town which was named after James Polk Johnson who was a cousin of Samuel Johnson, Jr. The ancestors of LBJ settled in Texas from Georgia. Lyndon B. Johnson finished high school at Johnson City High School in 1924 and was participant to baseball, debate, and public speaking activities. As a growing youth, he was talkative and awkward. He became class president in 11th grade. He worked his way through college in 1926 at Southwest Texas State Teachers’ College, where he dabbled in campus politics, debate, and editing The College Star, the school newspaper. He dropped out in 1927 but returned a year later and finally graduating in 1930. He taught Mexican kids in Cotulla, Texas at Welhausen School in 1927. He also taught at Pearsall High School in 1930 in Pearsall, Texas. He also taught public speaking at Sam Houston High School in Houston, Texas. After briefly teaching in Houston, Johnson entered politics. Lyndon B. Johnson’s Early Political Career Lyndon B. Johnson was employed as legislative secretary under Congressman Richard M. Kleberg after campaigning for Welly Hopkins, a senator from Texas, in 1930. Congressman Sam Rayburn was a close friend of Johnson’s father, Samuel. During his stint in Congress, he became friends with media people, lobbyists, Congressmen, aides of then President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and fellow Texans like Vice President John Garner. He went to Georgetown University Law Center for a few months then became husband to Claudia Alta Taylor on November 17, 1934. They were gifted with two daughters, Lynda Bird and Lucy Baines. He was appointed leader of the TNYA (Texas National Youth Administration) in 1935 but resigned two years later to run for a Congressional seat. His stint at the TNYA gave him the opportunity to utilize the government resources in creating education & job opportunities for the youth. In a special election in 1937, Lyndon B. Johnson won a seat and represented the 10th congressional district of Texas in Congress. He was congressman of Texas from April 10, 1937 up to January 3, 1949. In Congress, he allied himself with President Franklin Roosevelt and was appointed to the Naval Affairs Committee. His projects included improvements and rural electrification for his district. He awarded his projects to contractors whom he knew like Herman and George Brown and who later helped finance his political career. In a special election in 1941, he ran opposite W. Lee O’Daniel for a seat at the US Senate which was won by O’Daniel. During World War II, Lyndon B. Johnson was commissioned to the Naval Reserve. In the spring of 1942, he was part of the three-man team appointed by Roosevelt to check the conditions at Southwest Pacific. In 1948, he again ran for the Senate but this time he won. As a freshman Senator, he befriended a lot of powerful and older people, including Senator Richard Russell, the most powerful Senator at that time. He was assigned to the Senate Armed Services Committee and in 1950 he helped form the Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee. He brilliantly handled the press and with his efficient issuance of committee reports which he ensured that each report is unanimously endorsed by the committee members, he was able to hug the headlines and brought him national attention. He served as Senate Majority Whip from 1951 to 1953 under Majority Leader, Senator Ernest McFarland from Arizona. In 1952, Lyndon B. Johnson won as Senator again and became Senate Minority Leader. He worked to eliminate the seniority system of membership appointments to committees, although it was retained in terms of chairmanships. After being re-elected to the Senate in 1954, he became Majority Leader. He worked with Rayburn and President Eisenhower in passing the domestic and foreign agenda of Eisenhower. Lyndon B. Johnson as Vice President On November 5, 1960, he ran and won as Vice President to President John F. Kennedy and as Senator. He had Texas law changed so he can run both as Vice President and Senator. On January 3, 1961, as required by federal law, he resigned as Senator. The “Lyndon Law” was used by other people a number of times. In 1988, Lloyd Bentsen retained his Senate seat after Michael Dukakis lost to George H.W. Bush. Lloyd Bentsen ran as Dukakis’s Vice President. In 2000, Joe Lieberman also retained his Senate seat when his running partner, Al Gore, lost to George W. Bush for President. Joseph Biden, in 2008, also won the Vice Presidency and Senatorial elections but gave up the Senate seat in favor of the Vice Presidency. Lyndon B. Johnson as Vice President When President John F. Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963, Lyndon B. Johnson was sworn in as President aboard Air Force One by Federal Judge Sarah T. Hughes at Love Field Airport in Dallas, Texas. In the 1964 Presidential Election, he won the Presidency and vowed to continue the programs and plans of John F. Kennedy. In the early 1960s, West Germany and France imposed tariffs on the imports of US chicken to which President Johnson responded by imposing 25% tax on the imports of dextrin, potato starch, light trucks and brandy. These items were imported from Europe and approximated the value lost from the chicken sales to Europe. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 The Civil Rights Act of 1964, a law which made racial segregation illegal was supported and signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson. In 1965, he also supported and signed into law the Voting Rights Act which allowed colored Americans to vote for the first time. He was also the first president since Ulysses S. Grant to arrest and prosecute the Ku Klux Klan members. Although he was bent on instituting his anti-discrimination and anti-poverty programs, his presidency was hounded by urban riots in black neighborhoods from 1964 to 1971. Changes to U.S. Immigration Policies Also in 1965, the US immigration policy was changed through the passing and signing of the Immigration Act of 1965 which replaced the national origins system that has been in effect since the 1920s and replaced it with a preference system which was based on the immigrants’ skills and family relationships with US residents or citizens. Other Administration Achievements and Policy Changes In January 1965, Lyndon B. Johnson pushed the Great society program to Congress. He recommended passing of laws that would help education, Medicare, urban renewal, conservation, wide-scale fight against poverty, removal of hindrances to the right to vote, attack on disease, Medicaid, beautification, development of depressed regions, and control and prevention of crime, to which Congress responded by reenacting most of them into laws. He also signed into law the Gun Control Act of 1968 which was the most far reaching and largest gun control federal laws in the history of the United States of America. He was also credited for signing into law the Medicare program which was established on July 30, 1965. It was also during the Johnson Administration that the National Aeronautics and Space Administration conducted the Gemini manned space program and the Apollo program. Involvement The Vietnam War Lyndon B. Johnson’s credibility was challenged starting in 1966 when what he was saying in press conferences ran contrary to what was really happening on the ground during the Vietnam War. The number of American soldiers was increased in Vietnam. By 1968, it was more than 550,000 with the rate of death at over 1,000 US soldiers a month from 1967 to 1968. Because of this, he had lost his popularity among Americans. On March 31, 1968, he announced to the whole world that he would not run for re-election. He retired to his ranch in Stonewall, Texas after leaving the White House in January 1969. He wrote his memoirs, The Vantage Point, in 1971. He died of a massive heart attack at the age of 64 on January 22, 1973 at his ranch. He died while talking to Walter Cronkite of CBS. The CBS Evening News was live on the air when Walter Cronkite abruptly cut a report on Vietnam to talk to Johnson to break the news. Cronkite was informed by Johnson’s press secretary Tom Johnson that the former president had just died. Lyndon B. Johnson was interred in the family cemetery in Stonewall, Texas, and a few yards from the home where he was born. In his honor, Texas celebrates August 27, his birthday, as a legal holiday. In Houston, Texas, the Manned Spacecraft Center was renamed to Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center. In Dallas, the Interstate 635 was named Lyndon B. Johnson Freeway.


--- [The Junction School - The Historical Marker Database] ---
Near Stonewall in Gillespie County, Texas — The American South (West South Central) The Junction School Lyndon B. Johnson National Historical Park A half century after leaving, Johnson returned. With his first teacher, Miss Kate Deadrich, at his side, he signed into law one of the most important education bills of the 20th century. The Elementary and Secondary Education Act redefined the Federal government’s relationship with America’s schools. On April 11, 1965, President Johnson signed the bill that committed more than $1.5 billion in Federal funds to America’s schools; it was one of more than 60 education bills he signed during his presidency. Said Johnson, “I believe deeply that no law I have signed or will ever sign means more to the future of America.” (Upper Right Photo Caption) Children play on the school’s basketball court, about 1916. Though only four when he attended the school in 1912, Lyndon Johnson loved elbowing his way into ballgames with children much older than he. Erected by National Park Service. Topics and series. This historical marker is listed in these topic lists: Education • Government & Politics. In addition, it is included in the Former U.S. Presidents: #36 Lyndon B. Johnson series list. A significant historical year for this entry is 1912. Location. 30° 14.597′ N, 98° 36.378′ W. Marker is near Stonewall, Texas, in Gillespie County. Marker is at the intersection of Park Road 49 and Klein Road, on the right when traveling west on Park Road 49. Marker is located at the eastern entrance to Lyndon B. Johnson National Historical Park and the northwest corner of the intersection of Park Road 49, Klein Road, and Redstone Ranch Road. Touch for map. Marker is in this post office area: Stonewall TX 78671, United States of America. Touch for directions. Other nearby markers. At least 8 other markers are within walking distance of this marker. Education for All (within shouting distance of this marker); The Reconstructed Birthplace (approx. 0.3 miles away); A River Runs Through (approx. 0.3 miles away); A More Perfect Society (approx. 0.3 miles away); Generations of Johnsons (approx. 0.3 miles away); "Mr. Jelly Bean" (approx. 0.3 miles away); Site of the Andreas Lindig Lime Kiln (approx. half a mile away); Trinity Lutheran Church (approx. half a mile away). Touch for a list and map of all markers in Stonewall. Related markers. Click here for a list of markers that are related to this marker. This list consists of 26 wayside exhibits along the LBJ Ranch driving tour in Lyndon B. Johnson NHP. The markers are in order as you would encounter them on the driving tour. Also see . . . 1. Lyndon B. Johnson National Historical Park - Official Website. (Submitted on November 30, 2015.) 2. Junction School Brochure from the National Park Service. (Submitted on November 30, 2015.) Additional commentary. 1. Once a Teacher, Always a Teacher Interpretive Sign “Education is the only valid passport from poverty.” Lyndon Johnson As a former teacher, Lyndon Johnson understood the importance of education and its ability to transform people’s lives. His presidential years saw an unprecedented wave of over 60 education bills which continue to make a difference in the lives of millions of Americans. A small selection of President Johnson’s education legacy. - Elementary and Secondary Education Act - Higher Education Act - Vocational Education Act - Library Services and Construction Act - School Disaster Aid Act - National Technical Institute for the Deaf - Handicapped Children Early Education Assistance Act - Veterans Benefit Act - Nurse Training Act - Indian Vocational Training Act - Child Nutrition Act - International Education Act - Education Professions Development Act (Photo Caption) President Lyndon Johnson addresses students at South West Texas State University in San Marcos, Texas, April 1970. — Submitted November 30, 2015. 2. One-Room Inspiration Interpretive Sign Built in 1910, the Junction School served the rural inhabitants of Gillespie County for 37 years. Students walked to school to learn the “3R’s”—reading, writing, and arithmetic—in a sparsely decorated room heated by a wood stove and illuminated by kerosene lamps. A water bucket and dipper provided drinking water, and children brought their lunches from home in tin pails. By 1912, when Lyndon Johnson began his education, Kate Deadrich taught 40 students here. Boys sat on one side of the room, girls on the other. The future president, youngest student in the school, often sat on Miss Kate’s lap for reading lessons. For the rest of Lyndon Johnson’s life education would play an important role. Inspired by his brief time in this simple schoolhouse, he would go on to become a teacher, and eventually as president, sign over 60 educational bills into law. (Upper Right Photo Caption) To work his way through San Marcos Teachers College, Lyndon Johnson (center) took a job at Welhausen school in Cotulla, Texas. From 1928-1929 he taught three grades and served as principal, coach, song leader, and part-time janitor. According to Johnson, “About the only thing we had an ample supply of was determination ....” The experience left an indelible impression on him. (Lower Right Photo Caption) President Johnson’s mother, Rebekah Baines Johnson, was a college graduate who instilled in him a love of learning. She taught him the alphabet before he was two years old and how to read by the time he was four. She asked that her son be enrolled early at the Junction School. — Submitted November 30, 2015. Credits. This page was last revised on June 16, 2016. It was originally submitted on November 30, 2015, by Duane Hall of Abilene, Texas. This page has been viewed 421 times since then and 15 times this year. Photos: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. submitted on November 30, 2015, by Duane Hall of Abilene, Texas.


--- [Junction School, Friends of Gillespie County Country Schools] ---
Next open house or event Open to the public year round: Sunday thru Saturday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Check our Events Calendar for other Friends-sponsored events to attend. Open to the public year round: Sunday thru Saturday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Check our Events Calendar for other Friends-sponsored events to attend. The National Park Service purchased the Junction School in 1972 and it has been restored to its 1912-1913 condition. Today, in keeping with its original purpose, the Junction School continues to be used for educational programs, helping to fulfill the educational needs of the children of America. The school is open for viewing every day from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. It is not staffed. To schedule a visit or tour when the school isn't conducting a scheduled open house, complete our Contact Us form and select Junction School from the dropdown. Include the date/time of your request along with details. #8 on the driving map (Route D) located at 144 State Park Road 49 (LBJ Park). Built in 1911. Consolidated in 1947. On April 11, 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson returned to his school and asked his first teacher, Ms. Kate Deadrich, to witness the signing of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. It was one of more than 60 education bills he signed that committed more than $1.5 billion in Federal funds to public education. Throughout the world, the dream of many parents is a good Lyndon Baines Johnson education for their children. To help fulfill this dream in rural America, a number of one-room schools were constructed. One of these schools was the Junction School, located on the banks of the Pedernales River. The original Junction School opened its doors to students in the school term of 1882-1883 on the Christadelphian Camp Ground. The wooden structure, with a gabled roof, served as both a church and a school until 1910. It served exclusively as a church from 1910-1922. In 1922, the original church/school building was torn down and a new church was built in its place. In 1910, John Pehl sold the school trustees 2¾ acres on the banks of the Pedernales River to construct a new one-room Junction School. The school term of 1910-1911 opened in the new school with 46 students in attendance. Miss Neil Murphy was the teacher. Over the next 37 years, the Junction School served the community, teaching children the basic skills needed for a good education. In 1947, the Junction School was closed and consolidated with the Stonewall School. One of the students who attended the Junction School was Lyndon Baines Johnson, who later became a teacher and then our 36th President of the United States. As president, Lyndon Johnson signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act on April 11, 1965, at the Junction School with his first teacher, Miss Katie Deadrich, at his side. This law continues to have a major impact on education today. Upon signing the act, President Johnson stated, Education is the only valid passport from poverty. © 2025 Friends of Gillespie County Country Schools, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Website design by: Website Solutions Company For comments or questions with this website, email our webmaster.


--- [Junction School - Lyndon B Johnson National Historical Park (U.S ...] ---
| The one-room school was very important to the rural people living in Gillespie County. Here, near their homes, the children learned the "3R's" - reading, writing, and arithmetic - enabling many of them to go on to high school and college. The schools were located close enough to children's homes to allow to them to walk to school. There were 31 one-room schools located in Gillespie County; only one - Doss School - remains in operation today. The History of the Junction School The first one-room schoolhouse on the Pedernales River was actually a tent in the Christadelphian campgrounds one mile east of the present day Junction School. In 1882, the tent was replaced by the community with a small frame building that served both as a school and church. On September 27, 1910 John Pehl sold to the school district 2 3/4 acres of land on the north side of the Pedernales River to a build a new school. The fall term opened in the new school on November 21, 1910. The Junction School served the area for over 37 years. In the spring of 1947 the Junction School became part of the Stonewall Consolidated School District. This move closed the Junction School and the students attended the nearby Stonewall School. In 1972 the National Park Foundation purchased the land to become part of the Lyndon B. Johnson National Historical Park. The Junction School was a typical one-room school. A wood stove sat in a sand box in the center of the school and was the only source of heat. Two kerosene lamps suspended from the ceiling at opposite ends of the room provided light. The teacher's desk and a chair were in front of the classroom. A small brass bell on the teacher's desk summoned the students. Students sat at double desks which had wooden tops with holes for the glass inkwells. The desks were arranged in rows facing the teacher's desk; the boys in one row and the girls in another. The Future President Starts School One of the students at the Junction School was a 4-year old boy by the name of Lyndon Baines Johnson. He was born just up the road from the school on August 27, 1908 to the proud parents Sam and Rebekah Johnson. A typical little boy, he liked to ride his horse and play with other children and his dog, Bigham Young. Since Lyndon could hear the children outside before school and at recess, he would run down to the school house to play with them. His mother - constantly worried he would get lost - talked to the teacher, Miss Katie Deadrich, about enrolling him early into school. As an adult, President Johnson loved to relate how he had insisted upon sitting in Miss Katie's lap for his reading lessons. Johnson only attended Junction School for several months in 1912 since the school closed early due to a whooping cough epidemic. His family moved to Johnson City by the start of the next school year. In 1924, he graduated from high school in Johnson City and later attended Southwest Texas Teachers' College in San Marcos where he received his teaching degree. Johnson taught school for a while in Houston, Cotulla, and Pearsall, Texas. The Education President The Johnson Administration saw the passage of over 60 education bills, more education legislation than in any other presidential administration. In comparison, only six major education bills were passed from the time of Lincoln to Kennedy. With such an interest in education, it was only fitting that President Johnson would come back to his first school to sign one of these major education bills. Sitting at a picnic table on the lawn of the Junction School with Miss Katie Deadrich (his first teacher) at his side, President Johnson signed the Elementary and Secondary Education Act on April 11, 1965. "No measure I have signed, or will ever sign, means more to the future of America...." Provisions of the | Last updated: December 23, 2024
