=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mascarin Peak - Wikipedia]
The islands belong to South Africa and are administered by the South African National Antarctic Programme. Mascarin Peak is ranked 37th by topographic isolation. Mascarin Peak is South Africa's only active volcano. [2] The last eruption occurred in 2004. Renamed in 2003 after Marion du Fresne's frigate Le Mascarin. [3] Map of Prince Edward Islands
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mascarin_Peak

[Mascarin Peak - Active volcano summit in Marion Island, Western Cape ...]
The peak was renamed Mascarin Peak in 2003, honoring French explorer Marion du Fresne and his ship Le Mascarin that surveyed the region. This naming change reflected a shift in how places on the island are remembered.
URL: https://aroundus.com/p/4349049-mascarin-peak

[Marion Island - Marion Rise 2019]
Marion Island is the top of a large underwater shield volcano at the juncture between two tectonic plates, the African and Antarctic Plates, which rises 5,000 meters from the ocean floor to Mascarin Peak, the highest point on Marion Island. This active volcano erupted in 1980 and 2004 and has been volcanically active for over 18,000 years.
URL: https://www.marionrise.org/daily-blog/2019/3/11/marion-island

[Prince Edward Islands - Wikipedia]
Marion Island is one of the peaks of a large underwater shield volcano that rises some 5,000 m (16,404 ft) from the sea floor to the top of Mascarin Peak. The volcano is active, with eruptions having occurred between 1980 and 2004. [39]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prince_Edward_Islands

[The first complete topographical survey of Marion Island was undertaken ...]
Jan 2, 2017 · During their extended stay Brian, along with M22 team member Fred Clements on 21 October 1965, made what is pretty certainly the first ascent of the island’s highest peak, named as State President Swart Peak, but now known as Mascarin on the island’s latest topographic map that has a scale of 1:25 000 and a contour interval of 10 metres.
URL: https://blogs.sun.ac.za/antarcticlegacy/2017/01/02/the-first-complete-topographical-survey-of-marion-island-was-undertaken-over-50-years-ago-by-otto-langenegger-and-wilhelm-verwoerd/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mascarin Peak - Wikipedia] ---
Mascarin Peak (until 2003 called State President Swart Peak), is the highest mountain on Marion Island, with a height of 1,230 metres (4,040 ft). Marion Island is the largest island of the Prince Edward Islands in the sub-Antarctic Indian Ocean. The islands belong to South Africa and are administered by the South African National Antarctic Programme. Mascarin Peak is ranked 37th by topographic isolation.
Mascarin Peak is South Africa's only active volcano. The last eruption occurred in 2004. Renamed in 2003 after Marion du Fresne's frigate Le Mascarin.


--- [Mascarin Peak - Active volcano summit in Marion Island, Western Cape ...] ---
No content


--- [Marion Island - Marion Rise 2019] ---
How did Marion Rise get its name? It’s named after nearby Marion Island, which is one of the two Prince Edward Islands in the southern Indian Ocean about 1,200 miles southeast of Cape Town, South Africa. Except for a meteorological station established on Marion Island in 1948, the island is uninhabited. Marion Base is part of the South African National Antarctic Programme. It focuses on biological, environmental and meteorological research. There is an emphasis on the study of seals and birds, particularly penguins, petrels, albatrosses and gulls. It is home to five varieties of albatross. One environmental focus is the eradication of invasive species. The island was infested with mice from early ship visits. Later, cats were introduced to control the mice. The cats reproduced like crazy and were decimating the bird populations, so a cat control program came next. Now that cats are under control, mice are taking over again, and the mice are eating chicks out of the bird nests. Marion Island is the top of a large underwater shield volcano at the juncture between two tectonic plates, the African and Antarctic Plates, which rises 5,000 meters from the ocean floor to Mascarin Peak, the highest point on Marion Island. This active volcano erupted in 1980 and 2004 and has been volcanically active for over 18,000 years. Marion Island is about 25 km wide with an area of about 300 km2. The coastline is exposed and rugged with steep 150-meter cliffs. Mascarin Peak rises 1,200 meters from sea level. The climate is cool and stormy with prevailing westerly winds that bring heavy rain and snow. It rains 320 days per year – about 28 days of rain each month! Marion Island is a tiny dot compared to Marion Rise which extends for over 3,000 km along the southwest Indian Ridge with an area of millions of square kilometers. One of the oceanic core complexes discovered by this cruise is 20 km wide, nearly as large as Marion Island! Wet and chilly is fine by me, but I wouldn’t like the wind! Sally


--- [Prince Edward Islands - Wikipedia] ---
The Prince Edward Islands are two small uninhabited subantarctic volcanic islands in the southern Indian Ocean that are administered by South Africa. They are named Marion Island (named after Marc-Joseph Marion du Fresne, 1724–1772) and Prince Edward Island (named after Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn, 1767–1820).
The islands in the group have been declared Special Nature Reserves under the South African Environmental Management: Protected Areas Act, No. 57 of 2003, and activities on the islands are therefore restricted to research and conservation management. Further protection was granted when the area was declared a marine protected area in 2013. The only human inhabitants of the islands are the staff of a meteorological and biological research station run by the South African National Antarctic Programme on Marion Island.


--- [The first complete topographical survey of Marion Island was undertaken ...] ---
Wilhelm Verwoerd, Eduard van Zinderen Bakker, Junior and Brian Huntley confer inland of “Penis Rock”, Marion Island, March 1966 In January 1965 the First Biological & Geological Expedition sailed for Marion Island on the R.S.A., South Africa’s first Antarctic supply ship, then only three years old. The expedition was the brainchild of Eduard Meine van Zinderen Bakker, Senior, Professor of Botany at the then University of the Orange Free State. The six-man expedition joined Marion’s 21st Overwintering Team led by meteorologist Theo von Ludwig which was already on the island. Settling in for the summer – and converting an old accommodation building into the island’s first laboratory as an early task – field research took the intrepid scientists far and wide with heavy packs, camping out in tents and using caves and overhangs as shelters in the days before the first field huts were erected. Surveyor Otto Langenegger (who had previously spent a year with SANAE’s Fourth Overwintering Team on the Antarctic Continent over 1963) and geologist Wilhelm Verwoerd, later at Stellenbosch University, undertook a trigonometrical survey, which resulted in the first detailed topographical map for the whole island being produced at a scale of 1: 50 000 by Wilhelm in 1968. A previous map by Alan Crawford (M1 Team Leader in the first half of 1948) only covered the eastern side of the island. During the survey they climbed most of the island’s peaks, erecting cairns and leaving markers on many of them. When producing their maps (a geological one was also made) names of team members were assigned to hills and peaks, including the island’s pet dog. So nowadays island visitors can climb “Oubaas” as well as Brian, Eduard, Lou, Neville, Otto, Stevie, Sydney, Theo, Wilhelm, Wolfie and Wynand. Two other team members of M21, Chris Human and Cedric Roberts of the Public Works Department, did not have mountains or cones named after them. According to Eduard van Zinderen Bakker, Junior (the leader’s son who was also on the expedition) this is because “they were not on Marion from January to March 1965 while Wilhelm and Otto were doing their survey work. They departed with the R.S.A. to SANAE after we were dropped off at the island. Had they been on the island at that time I am sure Wilhelm would not have left them out”. This is confirmed by Wilhelm Verwoerd who also writes to ALSA: “One person whose contribution should have been recognised by us despite the fact that he was en route to Antarctica like Roberts and Human, was Johnny Strydom [SANAE 6th Overwintering Team, 1965], but unfortunately there was already a Johnny’s Hill! Strydom provided the base-line for our topographic survey by using a tellurometer to measure the distance between Junior’s Kop and Fred’s Hill beacons very accurately.” Wilhelm also describes how names were chosen: “I was probably responsible for naming more features on these islands than anybody else. It generally falls to the lot of the land surveyor to name topographic features in any new survey. Where there are no pre-existing names he often has to rack his brain. Looking back, I think some of our best choices on Marion were descriptive names like Katedraalkrans [cathedral precipice] and Basaltgordyn [basalt curtain]. Others are really trivial, but catchy: what can be more so than Mixed Pickle Cove [named after sealers’ stores] and Santa Rosa Hill [after an enjoyed can of fruit]! Towards the end of our 1965 expedition we ran out of ideas and started naming our girlfriends, even Marilyn Monroe, the pin-up at the base, but better judgement prevailed and these were dropped before publication. Naming the highest peaks was a more serious matter. We followed a long-standing tradition in the Antarctic and on Sub-Antarctic islands like Gough by honouring heads of state, etc.” The expedition made two short visits of a few days each to neighbouring Prince Edward Island, the first visit by scientists to that island. The maps then produced remain half a century later as the only ones available. Fittingly the highest point on the island was named after the expedition’s leader as Van Zinderen Bakker Peak. Most of the expedition left the island at the end of the 1965/66 summer on the annual relief voyage but two members, botanist Brian Huntley and ornithologist Eduard van Zinderen Bakker, Junior) stayed on for a second summer, eventually returning to South Africa in March 1966. During their extended stay Brian, along with M22 team member Fred Clements on 21 October 1965, made what is pretty certainly the first ascent of the island’s highest peak, named as State President Swart Peak, but now known as Mascarin on the island’s latest topographic map that has a scale of 1:25 000 and a contour interval of 10 metres. Previously, another peak (Jan Smuts Peak, renamed Resolution) nearby was regarded as the highest. With grateful thanks to First Biological & Geological Expedition members Brian Huntley, Eduard van Zinderen Bakker, Junior and Wilhelm Verwoerd for their continued and willing contributions towards preserving South Africa’s Antarctic legacy. References: Huntley, B.J. 2016. Exploring a sub-Antarctic Wilderness. A Personal Narrative of the First South African Biological & Geological Expedition to Marion and Prince Edward Islands, 1965/1966. Stellenbosch: Antarctic Legacy of South Africa. 268 pp. Langenegger, O. & Verwoerd, W.J. 1971. Topographic survey. In: van Zinderen Bakker Sr, E.M., Winterbottom, J.M. & Dyer, R.A. (Eds). Marion and Prince Edward Islands. Report on the South African Biological & Geological Expedition /1965-1966. Cape Town: A.A. Balkema. pp. 32-39. John Cooper, Principal Investigator, Antarctic Legacy of South Africa, Department of Botany & Zoology, Stellenbosch University, 02 January 2017
