=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lucy Letby - Wikipedia]
Lucy Letby (born 4 January 1990) is a British former neonatal nurse who was convicted of murdering seven infants and attempting to murder seven others at the Countess of Chester Hospital between June 2015 and June 2016.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucy_Letby

[The True Story Behind The Investigation of Lucy Letby | TIME]
Feb 4, 2026 · Letby was born on Jan. 4th, 1990. She attended the University of Chester, where she got a BSC in Child Nursing. She had her university placement at the Countess of Chester Hospital in Northern...
URL: https://time.com/7363946/lucy-letby-netflix-documentary/

[Lucy Letby - Age, Bio, Family | Famous Birthdays]
British serial killer and former neonatal nurse who attacked infants in her care between June 2015 and June 2016.
URL: https://www.famousbirthdays.com/people/lucy-letby.html

[Who is baby serial killer Lucy Letby? - BBC News]
Aug 18, 2023 · Letby was born on 4 January 1990 and grew up in Hereford with her mother and father, John and Susan, who since October have watched their daughter's trial unfold from the public gallery.
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-merseyside-65058159

[LETBY Lucy | Serial Killer Database Wiki | Fandom]
Lucy Letby was born on January 4, 1990, to Susan and John Letby, just five months after they tied the knot. She was the only child that her parents seemed to dote on. Even in adult life, it seems apparent that they showed great care and concern for her, which was evident in the text messages shown and the fact that during Lucy's relocation to another department, John threatened legal action ...
URL: https://skdb.fandom.com/wiki/LETBY_Lucy


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lucy Letby - Wikipedia] ---
Lucy Letby (born 4 January 1990) is a British former neonatal nurse who was convicted of murdering seven infants and attempting to murder seven others at the Countess of Chester Hospital between June 2015 and June 2016. She came under investigation after an unusual cluster of deaths and collapses in the hospital's neonatal unit, three years after she began working there.
Charged in November 2020 with seven counts of murder and fifteen counts of attempted murder relating to seventeen babies, Letby was prosecuted on the basis of her presence during many of the incidents, two abnormal blood test results and skin discolouration interpreted as signs of insulin poisoning and air embolism, alleged inconsistencies in medical records, her removal of nursing handover sheets from the hospital, and handwritten notes that the prosecution characterised as a confession. In August 2023, she was found guilty on seven counts each of murder and attempted murder, acquitted on two counts of attempted murder, and the jury was unable to reach verdicts on six further counts. She received fourteen whole life orders. One of the unresolved attempted murder charges was retried in July 2024, resulting in a fifteenth whole life order.
Senior management at the Countess of Chester Hospital were criticised for failing to act on clinicians' concerns, prompting the British government to commission an independent statutory inquiry, which began hearings in September 2024. Cheshire Police examined additional cases, but the Crown Prosecution Service declined to bring further charges.
Following the lifting of reporting restrictions, several medical and statistical experts have challenged the prosecution's interpretation of the clinical and numerical evidence, arguing that the infants' deteriorations were consistent with natural causes. Two applications for permission to appeal have been refused by the Court of Appeal, and the Criminal Cases Review Commission is considering a preliminary application to refer the case back to the court.


--- [The True Story Behind The Investigation of Lucy Letby | TIME] ---
The neonatal nurse Lucy Letby became notorious in the United Kingdom when she was found guilty of doing the unthinkable. In 2023, Letby was convicted of the murder of seven babies and the attempted murder of an additional six infants (a seventh charge for attempted murder came later). That made her one of the most prolific female serial killers in the U.K. But a new Netflix documentary, The Investigation of Lucy Letby, seeks to shed new light on the trial and challenge our understanding of Letby, suggesting she may not be guilty after all. This is the story of Lucy Letby, according to the bombshell Netflix documentary. Letby was born on Jan. 4th, 1990. She attended the University of Chester, where she got a BSC in Child Nursing. She had her university placement at the Countess of Chester Hospital in Northern England, and started working there full-time after getting her degree in the neonatal department. “There was nothing about her that made her stand out to me,” recalls Dr. John Gibbs, a retired consultant pediatrician, in the documentary. Yet in June 2015, something strange was going on. Babies were mysteriously dying at the Countess of Chester Hospital. One of the babies was named Zoe (her name has been changed in the documentary), and her mother (who is anonymized by AI in the film) recounts her story. The mother had an extremely challenging birth, and Zoe was taken to intensive care and put in an incubator. She was responding well, as expected, but suddenly she collapsed, and the doctors were unable to save her, and she died on June 22. Three other babies died at Countess of Chester on June 8, 14, and 22, 2015. By February 2016, the death toll had risen to nine. By the following June, it was thirteen. “In the 21 years I’d been a consultant, I’d never seen anything like this before,” recalls Gibbs. An investigation was opened, and a pattern emerged: Letby was the only nurse on duty for every suspicious death in the neonatal unit. The manager of the unit was sure of Letby’s competence, but eventually Letby was removed from the night shift and brought onto the day shift. The collapses and deaths decreased significantly during the night, but then started to occur during the day, the documentary alleges. On July 3, 2018, Letby was arrested. The police searched her home and found concerning materials, including a box of confidential handover sheets and documents about the babies, many of which related to the babies that collapsed and subsequently died. Letby had over 250 of them and arranged them in chronological order. When questioned by the police, she claimed that she brought them home by accident. After being let out on bail on two previous occasions, on Nov. 10, 2020, Letby was arrested for a third time. Twenty-four hours later, she was charged with eight counts of murder and 10 counts of attempted murder. She was denied bail and spent 23 months in custody before facing trial. On Oct 10, 2022, the trial began. Prosecution detailed some of the ways Lucy would harm the children. They claimed she removed airway tubes or would overfeed to inflate the stomach, thereby restricting breathing. Prosecution said she was creative in her methodology and changed things so as not to get caught. With Baby Zoe, there was a strange skin discoloration that doctors had not seen before. There was also air found in a blood vessel in the body, an air embolism. According to medical examiner Dr. Evans, Zoe’s deterioration was caused by a deliberate injection of air into the intravenous system. Letby would also message her colleagues about the deaths and would look up the parents of the deceased babies on Facebook, though the evidence was all circumstantial. Two of the babies Letby was accused of harming were given insulin when they did not need it, which is extremely dangerous. This was, according to the medical examiner, the “smoking gun” to the rest of the case. Found at Letby's home was a series of post-it notes, scribbled with phrases like “I killed them,” “I am evil,” and “I did this.” The evidence, though largely circumstantial, was overwhelming. “Objectively, it couldn’t have been anyone else,” observes Simon Blackwell, Detective Superintendent, Cheshire Police. Letby maintained her innocence throughout and pleaded not guilty. On Aug. 18, 2023, the verdict was delivered: Letby was found guilty of murdering seven babies and attempting to murder seven more. She was sentenced to life in prison. The world became convinced that Letby was a prolific serial killer, but others were unsure, and The Investigation of Lucy Letby casts doubt on the trial. Mark McDonald, a criminal defense barrister, now representing Letby, is fighting for Letby’s freedom. He highlights in the documentary that there was no motive, no CCTV evidence, and nobody actually saw her do anything wrong. The post-it notes claimed she was responsible this, but there were other words in the notes, like “slander” and “discrimination,” that suggest she didn’t really believe she did it, rather than that she was just trying to process her feelings, he says. She was told, according to McDonald, as a form of therapy, that she should write down her feelings as a form of therapy. A 2024 article in The New Yorker written by Rachel Aviv also cast doubt on the court’s guilty verdict. Aviv’s reporting found that the issue may not lie with Letby, but rather the hospital itself. Because Letby was more qualified than most nurses, she was given the sickest babies. “It would be odd if she wasn’t there when something went wrong,” McDonald says. He notes how the prosecution kept pushing the idea that the babies stopped dying when Letby was taken off the unit. But when Letby was taken off the unit, McDonald explains, it was downgraded, meaning it didn’t receive as many seriously ill babies. “The mortality rates were always going to drop,” he says. McDonald has made several media appearances, casting doubt on the result of the case. His campaign has gained considerable traction, and amongst those pushing for Letby’s freedom is Sir David Davis, a sitting UK member of parliament. Davis has campaigned for a retrial of Letby, observing that the trial was a “clear miscarriage of justice.” The evidence in the trial, according to McDonald, all centers around the expert witness Dr. Evans. McDonald reveals that a senior judge, not involved in the trial, let the trial judge know that Evans “makes no effort to provide a balanced opinion,” and that “no attempt has been made to engage with the full range of medical information.” This is shown in the documentary in close-ups of the letter sent from a senior judge, though we do not learn the identity of the judge. To verify whether Evans would be a reliable expert, McDonald contacted the original author of the findings about air embolisms that Evans used as evidence to convict Letby. Professor Shoo Lee, in Alberta, Canada, published the paper in 1989. “If my paper was misinterpreted, we have a big problem on our hands,” Lee says in The Investigation of Lucy Letby. After going through the evidence, Lee says, “they did not describe the kind of skin discoloration that was diagnostic of embolism. What they had described was skin discoloration due to hypoxia, or lack of oxygen. This means that the conviction was potentially wrong.” Lee assembled a panel of fourteen medical experts who concluded that there “was no medical evidence to support malfeasance causing death or injury in any of the 17 cases in the trial…We did not find any murders.” In the case of Zoe, Lee notes that the mother should have been given antibiotics to prevent infection for the baby, but this wasn’t done. Dr. Gibbs, the consultant pediatrician interviewed in the documentary, says that Letby was correctly put in jail, but he admits that a tiny part of him feels guilty that they may have got the wrong person. “You worry that no one actually saw her do it,” he says. Investigators and the mother interviewed in the documentary maintain that Letby is guilty. In July 2025, the police submitted additional evidence regarding nine further babies. On Jan. 20, 2026, the Crown Prosecution Service said it would not charge Letby with any further offences. McDonald has submitted a request to the Criminal Cases Review Commission for a retrial.


--- [Lucy Letby - Age, Bio, Family | Famous Birthdays] ---
About British serial killer and former neonatal nurse who attacked infants in her care between June 2015 and June 2016. She was charged in November 2020 with eight counts of murder and ten counts of attempted murder. Before fame She was educated at Aylestone School and Hereford Sixth Form College. She pursued her education in nursing at the University of Chester, where she also worked as a student nurse during her three years of training, carrying out placements at Liverpool Women's Hospital and the Countess of Chester Hospital. Trivia In 2012, she began working as a registered nurse at the neonatal unit of the Countess of Chester Hospital. In August 2023, she was sentenced to life in prison. Family life She is the daughter of Susan Letby and John Letby. Associated with She and Beverley Allitt were both nurses who murdered infants.


--- [Who is baby serial killer Lucy Letby? - BBC News] ---
Early one morning in July 2018, Lucy Letby was led away from her home in handcuffs after being arrested for the first time. The neonatal nurse, 28 at the time, was to be questioned about truly unthinkable crimes that, upon conviction, would make her the UK's most prolific child serial killer in modern times. Her arrest followed a painstaking investigation by Cheshire Police that, at its height, involved nearly 70 officers and civilian staff. The sole focus of Operation Hummingbird was to investigate the alarming and unexplained rise in deaths and near-fatal collapses of premature babies in the Countess of Chester Hospital's neonatal unit. Within hours, news of Letby's arrest was making headlines around the world. Baby serial killer Lucy Letby She was initially released on police bail but was subsequently arrested twice more and then ultimately charged in November 2020. Since October, the now 33-year-old has been on trial at Manchester Crown Court, accused of murdering seven babies and attempting to murder 10 others between June 2015 and June 2016. She steadfastly denied all of the 22 charges against her but was found guilty of seven counts of murder and seven of attempted murder, involving six babies. Letby was acquitted on two counts of attempted murder while jurors were unable to reach verdicts on six further attempted murder charges. The jury of seven women and four men had deliberated for more than 110 hours after hearing nine months of harrowing evidence. But what have we learned about the woman who murdered and attempted to kill babies she was trusted to care for? Letby was born on 4 January 1990 and grew up in Hereford with her mother and father, John and Susan, who since October have watched their daughter's trial unfold from the public gallery. She attended a local school and sixth-form college, selecting subjects she believed would help her achieve her goals and aspirations. "I have always wanted to work with children," she told the jury, adding she had chosen A-levels "which would best support that career". BBC Action Line This is a distressing case so if you, or someone you know, need help after reading about it, the details of organisations offering assistance can be found on the BBC Action Line website. Letby, who was the first person in her family to go to university, studied nursing for three years at the University of Chester. During her studies, she completed numerous work placements. The majority were based at the Countess of Chester Hospital, either on the children's ward or the neonatal unit. She qualified as a Band 5 nurse in September 2011 and went on to start working full-time at the hospital from January 2012 before qualifying to work with intensive care babies in the spring of 2015. Letby told the court her workload from that time was "predominately" spent looking after the sickest babies on the unit. She also revealed how she mentored five or six student nurses and estimated that she had cared for hundreds of new-born babies during 2015 and 2016. In September 2016, Letby was officially informed in a letter from the Royal College of Nursing that she was under investigation over the deaths of babies. Earlier that year, she had been removed from clinical duties and given a clerical role in the risk and patient safety office by hospital management. At the time, she believed this was to check staff were competent to do their jobs and hoped to return to the job she loved. But six years later Letby - who had no previous convictions, reprimands or cautions recorded against her - found herself sitting in the dock behind a glass screen as the prosecution labelled her a "calculating and devious" opportunist who "gaslighted" colleagues to cover her "murderous assaults". Her defence team argued the deaths and collapses were due to "serial failures in care" in the unit and she was the victim of a "system that wanted to apportion blame when it failed". During the trial, jurors were given a glimpse into Letby's life outside of work, with her once-private WhatsApp and social media messages read to the court. "I had quite an active social life," she told the jury. "I used to regularly attend salsa class, go out with friends, go on holidays with friends. Gym." She started to cry as pictures of her home - where she was first arrested - were shown to the jury. Letby lived in staff accommodation at Ash House before moving to a flat in Chester for about six months. She moved back into Ash House in June 2015 before moving into the house she bought on Westbourne Road, Chester, in April 2016. A photo of a noticeboard in the kitchen was covered in pictures and letters and featured a poster, drawn by her godson, which read: "No.1 Godmother awarded to Lucy Letby". On her bed, she had Winnie the Pooh and Eeyore cuddly toys while a drawer in the living room contained various documents and medical notes for her two cats, named Tigger and Smudge. Letby has been remanded in custody since November 2020 and has spent time in four different prisons. Her trial has gripped readers from around the world, many unable to fathom how a neonatal nurse could carry out such heinous acts. Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, external, Twitter, external and Instagram, external? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk, external Related topics - Published18 August 2023 - Published18 August 2023 - Published18 August 2023 - Published18 August 2023 - Published18 August 2023 - Published18 August 2023 - Published18 August 2023


--- [LETBY Lucy | Serial Killer Database Wiki | Fandom] ---
Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Further details may exist on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Biography[] Early life[] Lucy Letby was born on January 4, 1990, to Susan and John Letby, just five months after they tied the knot. She was the only child that her parents seemed to dote on. Even in adult life, it seems apparent that they showed great care and concern for her, which was evident in the text messages shown and the fact that during Lucy's relocation to another department, John threatened legal action against the hospital, claiming that Letby was being discriminated against. The hospital managerial staff then decided to side with Letby and her father. Murders[] Lucy Letby has been described as a 'vanilla' killer because there were no outward signs of her true nature until her crimes came to light. Even during the trial, Letby maintained her claims of innocence and remained calm when questioned on the stand, although the facade seemed to somewhat drop when a doctor, known only as "Doctor A" for legal reasons, took the witness stand. It is claimed that Letby was having an emotional and possibly physical affair with this married doctor that seemed to span her killing spree and continued afterward. This is also the very same doctor who once told Letby that she was one of the very few people he would trust to care for his own children medically during the times of her attacks and subsequent investigation. It is suggested that this relationship may have been a driving factor in why Letby was harming the infants, as it would mean she would gain the attention of this doctor and create a trauma bond that would strengthen any sort of grip she had on him. It is only because of doctors like Dr. Ravi and Dr. Steven, who were persistent in their efforts to involve the police despite years of the hospital claiming that no crimes had been committed, that these children finally got the justice they deserved against a seemingly cold and clueless Letby. Letby is now serving a whole life term for each count she was found guilty of and will never live outside the four cement walls that confine her for the rest of her days. Victims[] Due to reporting restrictions and out of respect for the families, as well as Letby not being convicted of child K's death, all names have been removed.[2] Timeline[] Bibliography[] Literature[] Articles[] - Lizzie Seal (August 27, 2023). CRIME: WHO IS THE ‘BABY KILLER’ NURSE?. Dawn. - The crimes of Lucy Letby. Crime + Investigation. Documentaries[] Television[] YouTube Documentaries[] - Lucy Letby - Prolific BABY killer - PSYCHIATRIST explains her DEEDs (feat DEADbug), A Psych For Sore Minds on YouTube - Lucy Letby: How the police caught the former nurse, Sky News on YouTube - Lucy Letby: the full story of the serial killer nurse, Channel 4 News on YouTube Podcasts[] In popular culture[] Film adaptation[] Related Articles[] See also[] Links[] - Lucy Letby at Wikipedia Notes[] References[] - ↑ Charlie Moloney (August 21, 2023). Inside Low Newton: the high security prison that will house Lucy Letby. The Guardian. - ↑ Jamie Ross (November 12, 2020). Nurse Charged With Murdering 8 Babies and Trying to Kill 10 More.
