=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ashraf Abbasi - Wikipedia]
Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. [1] She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ashraf_Abbasi

[In memory of Amma Ashraf Abbasi - The Nation]
Aug 3, 2016 · As the non-party polls for the national and provincial assemblies came near all the major political families of Larkana - the Bhuttos, the Khuhros and the Qazis - made a political compromise amongst themselves. Abbasis, not being part of this compromise, nominated Ghulam Ali Abbasi s/o Comrade Ali Muhammad Abbasi for the West Pakistan Assembly; thus stopping an unopposed election. As the ...
URL: https://www.nation.com.pk/03-Aug-2016/in-memory-of-amma-ashraf-abbasi

[Begum Ashraf Abbasi passes away - Newspaper - DAWN.COM]
Aug 4, 2014 · LARKANA: Begum Dr Ashraf Abbasi, former deputy speaker of the National Assembly and a close aide to PPP founder leader Z.A. Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto, died in Waleed village on Sunday. She was 91 ...
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/1123109

[Ashraf Abbasi - Wikiwand]
Abbasi received her secondary education from DJ College Sindh in 1940. She also studied at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi. She obtained her MBBS degree from the Dow Medical College Karachi. Abbasi opened her clinic in Larkana. She also served at Civil Hospital Larkana. She participated in the promotion of education.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Ashraf_Khatoon_Abbasi

[Ashraf Abbasi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 13, 2024 · Abbasi received her secondary education from DJ College Sindh in 1940. She also studied at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi. She obtained her MBBS degree from the Dow Medical College Karachi. Abbasi opened her clinic in Larkana. She also served at Civil Hospital Larkana. She participated in the promotion of education.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Ashraf-Abbasi


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ashraf Abbasi - Wikipedia] ---
Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP and won from her constituency in 1970.




--- [In memory of Amma Ashraf Abbasi - The Nation] ---
SAFDAR ALI ABBASI Looking back after two years of passing away of my beloved mother and a political mentor to many, Dr Begum Ashraf Abbasi, I am thinking about all those years which I spent with her not only as a son but also as a person who closely watched her in political life. She was born on January 1, 1925. My mother and her younger sister were the only Muslim girls who passed their Matriculation from Government High School Larkana in the late 30’s.Coming from a typical rural family where family traditions disallowed girls from making a career she topped the Bombay Board and never looked back. Her brother Ali Muhammad Abbasi, a veteran of the Hari Haqdar Tehrik with comrade Haider Bux Jatoi, stood like a rock in pursuing her studies. After completing her schooling she moved to Karachi and did her Intermediate from DJ Science College living with a Hindu family of Karachi. Her resolve to become a doctor took her to Lady Dufferin College in Delhi as in those days there was no medical college in Sindh and the choice was between Lahore and Delhi. The pressure to call her back mounted on comrade Ali Muhammad Abbasi who wilted under family pressure. She was called back from Delhi and married to her first cousin Khan M Abbasi, my father a typical rural landlord who prayed five times a day, said his Tahajud and Ishraq prayers. But more liberal than all the liberals combined when he gave in to the wishes of his life partner who wanted to complete her medical education after giving birth to two children Munawar and Akhter, my elder brothers. She forced her way into Dow Medical College Karachi soon after partition in 1948 and completed her medical education in 1953 with four distinctions and first position. She used to narrate to me an interesting episode when she got her first distinction in Anatomy. All the other students were agitated and protested on that to Prof Abdul Waheed, Professer of Anatomy Dow Medical College. Prof Abdul Waheed had retorted to all those agitating: “Baba that day she knew more Anatomy than me” – a compliment that she cherished all her life. After getting her degree she had all the choices of going abroad for Post graduate studies with multiple scholarships waiting for her as a lot of her colleagues decided to do so. Those were the days when the Pakistanis did not even require a visa for going to the UK. Here again was a decision time for her. She decided to return back to Larkana after completing her house job from Civil Hospital Karachi. Her feeling was quite clear that her people and family needed her. Those were the days when Larkana was a small, clean little town with a very competent municipality and a protective police force. She joined Civil Hospital as the only Lady Doctor. Here as a young doctor she had her first major interaction with the senior Bhuttos Sir Shahnawaz and Lady Khursheed. Before this she used to remember that whenever they were going back to their village from school she and her younger sister Adeeba Khanum were often called to AL Murtaza by Lady Khursheed, mother of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and mostly got affection from the Lady who was known to be an amiable, likeable personality all over Larkana. She never met ZAB until he became the foreign minister but she was on the death bed of Sir Shahnawaz Bhutto attending him as a young doctor. Twenty years of her active medical practice took her attending her patients. People of Nasirabad, Warah, Ratodero,Mirokhan, Dokri, Shahdadkot remembered her for her service. She started taking interest in politics during the first local bodies elections for Basic Democrats in the Ayub era and was elected to the Khairpur Divisional Council. Here was the first time that Mr Bhutto as a federal minister started to take notice of this lady doctor taking active part in politics. As the non-party polls for the national and provincial assemblies came near all the major political families of Larkana - the Bhuttos, the Khuhros and the Qazis - made a political compromise amongst themselves. Abbasis, not being part of this compromise, nominated Ghulam Ali Abbasi s/o Comrade Ali Muhammad Abbasi for the West Pakistan Assembly; thus stopping an unopposed election. As the campaign was in full swing ZAB started sending messages to my father through Sardar Pir Bux Bhutto, head of the Bhutto family. My mother was well aware that she would be pressurised by Bhutto to withdraw Ghulam Ali from the contest but then my father prevailed upon both of them to at least meet Bhutto and talk to him directly. My mother got ready for the first direct contact with ZAB who was more aware about the Abbasis association with the Bhuttos. My mother was well aware of the odds stacked against her and the family but she took the courage to ask Mr Bhutto whether he wanted her political death. He was flabbergasted that why would he want her political death as he respected her and her family. My mother clearly told him that he was well aware of the rural culture as once she got out of Al Murtaza she would be blamed for either bowing down to pressure or taking money. As I think back and contemplate on this remark of my mother I feel this was the epitome of her resolve all her life, refusing to bow to pressure even if it was ZAB. She spoke out the truth when others were scared to do so. As she got up to leave, Bhutto smilingly told her “whatever decision you make, you are my candidate for the ladies seat in the West Pakistan Assembly”. My mother left Al Murtuza and smilingly thought: Will Mr Bhutto remember this? Probably not was her answer to her inner self. The elections were over and Ghulam Ali Abbasi lost but he did not betray the confidence of the voters. Lo and behold, one day my mother received a message from ZAB, the foreign minister of Pakistan through Caretaker of Al Murtaza house Taj Muhammad, to sign the nomination form for the ladies seats to the West Pakistan Assembly. Bhutto known for his impeccable memory did not forget that he had made a promise which he wanted to fulfil. She was elected by 14 votes to 11 defeating the candidate put forward by Pir Sahib Pagara and Makhdoomzada Hassan Mahmood as her constituency comprised of Bahawalpur, Khairpur and Quetta divisions. Major support for her came from Larkana and Nawab Sadiq Khan Abbasi, the Amir of Bahawalpur, but the crucial votes were cast by Ahmed Nawaz Bugti, brother of Nawab Akber Khan Bugti, and Syed Zafar Ali Shah from Naushero Feroz. On the day of voting, Bhutto sat at the steps of the Assembly in Lahore. Her victory was a personal triumph for him. They say that happiness and sorrow go together. Triumphs and defeats are part of human lives. The happiness on the national political scene was accompanied by the loss of her husband. My father left this world in a road accident near the town of Kotdiji. I was travelling in the same jeep. This was 1962 and I was hardly 5 years old. My mother raised her children virtually as a single parent and played her part as doc and politicians as well. She remained member of the West Pakistan Assembly till 1969. By then Bhutto had resigned from the Ayub cabinet and founded the PPP. I vividly remember the day when ZA Bhutto made that famous journey from Rawalpindi to Lahore by train after resigning from the cabinet. I accompanied my mother to the railway station and were able to get into the saloon too. That was my first experience of mass politics. The adulation and the love that he got in Lahore probably pushed him into politics. My mother’s journey through politics made her MNA in 1970, first woman Deputy Speaker of the NA in 1973, Minister for Local Bodies in Sindh in 1977. She defied Zia’s martial law with full vigour. She always lamented that people were unable to save Bhutto, one of the greatest nationalist heroes. Her final meeting with Mr Bhutto was in the Supreme Court when he was brought to record his statement. The PPP, after 4 April 1979, was passing through one of the most crucial phase of its history. Bhutto was no more, his wife and young Benazir were detained in Sihala, most of the party leaders and workers were jailed, the movement for the release of Bhutto was crushed with brute force. Zia had used the PNA to eliminate Bhutto and impose one of the worst dictatorial regime in Pakistan. Soon the prediction that ZAB would be a greater threat from the grave started to come true. People started to throng to his grave. Dr Ashraf Abbasi was made the Chairperson of the Mazaar committee and became the focal point for all the workers coming from every nook and corner of the country. Her house in Larkana became an abode for all of them and her amiable and polite behaviour endeared her to all of them and gradually from mother of three she became Mother to All. Every PPP worker felt proud in calling her Amma Ashraf Abbasi. All the three of us brothers had always conceded that Amma had other children also and probably they loved and adored her even more than us. The high point in her career came when, during the 1988 elections, the PPP was facing a dilemma in choosing a candidate to contest against Sardar Sulltan Ahmad Chandio in his bastion of Qambar and Warah. The party had already chosen their candidates for two seats in Larkana: NA-164 Begum Nusrat Bhutto and NA-166 Benazir Bhutto. Nobody was coming forward to contest NA-165 against Chandio. The party leadership had even offered Chandio to contest on the Party ticket but he was adamant upon contesting as an independent candidate and later joining the party. This was unacceptable to Benazir. When nobody was willing to contest, my mother thundered that that why were all the men dithering and that she was ready to contest. BB agreed and for the first time three eminent women were contesting all the National Assembly seats from one district, a record unmatched in electoral politics. All of them won by thumping margins. Dr Abbasi defeated Sardar Chandio by a margin of 45000 votes. She was elected Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly for the second time - poetic justice. As Deputy Speaker in 1977, she struggled for democracy for eleven long years. As the parliament was dissolved by Ghulam Ishaq Khan in 1988, her parliamentary career spanning over three decades ended but her resolve to carry on politics as the member Central Executive Committee of the PPP and then Federal Council never waned. Her continued illness after 2005 made her fade away but her intimacy with Benazir Bhutto continued, often visiting her in Dubai as Member of SZABIST governing board. She set up her own Mothers’ Trust for inculcating human values in society. On her return to Pakistan in Oct 2007, BB made it a point to stay with her at least thrice on her visits to Larkana, the last one being on 23rd December 2007 never to return. Her martyrdom left a void in her life; and hereon it was a slide towards her final abode breathing her last on August 3, 2014. Contributed


--- [Begum Ashraf Abbasi passes away - Newspaper - DAWN.COM] ---
LARKANA: Begum Dr Ashraf Abbasi, former deputy speaker of the National Assembly and a close aide to PPP founder leader Z.A. Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto, died in Waleed village on Sunday. She was 91. She has left three sons, former MPA Haji Munwwar Ali Abbasi, former senator Dr Safdar Abbasi and Akhtar Abbasi. She was the mother-in-law of Benazir Bhutto’s political secretary Naheed Khan. Begum Abbasi, better known as ‘Amman doctor’ and ‘Ammi’, had been bed ridden for a long time, family sources said. She did her secondary education from the D.J. College Sindh in 1940 and got admission in the Lady Hardinge Medical College for Girls in Delhi. She remained a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 to 1965, joined PPP and won the NA-165 seat in 1970. She became the first woman deputy speaker of the National Assembly in 1973 and held the position till 1977 and again from 1988 to 1990. She also served as the chairperson of the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology, Larkana campus. In 1977, she won a Sindh Assembly seat and was made the minister for local government. Begum Abbasi did her MBBS from the Dow Medical College when she was the mother of two. She was nominated as a member of the committee that drafted the 1973 constitution. She also remained a member of the Allama Iqbal Open University, Islamabad, and University of Sindh, Jamshoro, syndicates. She took active part in the Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD) and remained incarcerated in Sukkur jail for 14 months. She had been under house arrest four times in Karachi and Waleed (Larkana) during the PPP movement against martial law. Begum Ashraf established the Mothers’ Trust in 1996 to serve poor women and headed it till her death. She authored her biography which was published under the title of ‘Jaikey Halan Haikliyoon (the women who walk alone). Published in Dawn, August 4th, 2014


--- [Ashraf Abbasi - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Ashraf Abbasi - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Nationality Pakistani Name Ashraf Abbasi | Occupation Politician | | Died August 4, 2014, Larkana, Pakistan | Ashraf Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly in 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP and won from her constituency in 1970. Contents Personal life Abbasi received her secondary education from DJ College Sindh in 1940. She also studied at the Lady Hardinge Medical College in Delhi. She obtained her MBBS degree from the Dow Medical College Karachi. Abbasi opened her clinic in Larkana. She also served at Civil Hospital Larkana. She participated in the promotion of education. She died on 4 August 2014 in the village of Waleed, Larkana. She was the mother of two sons, including Safdar Ali Abbasi who became a PPP senator. Career Abbasi was a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 to 1965. Later, she the joined PPP, winning a National Assembly seat in 1970. She became the first woman deputy speaker of the National Assembly, serving from 1973 to 1977 and again from 1988 to 1990. She also served as the chairperson of the Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto Institute of Science and Technology, Larkana campus, and was a member of the Allama Iqbal Open University, Islamabad, and University of Sindh, Jamshoro, syndicates. She was also a member of the constitution committee. She established the Mothers Trust in 1996 to help poor women. Abbasi wrote her biography titled Jaikey Halan Haikliyoon ("The Women Who Walk Alone").
