=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology]
The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB) was established as a project of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) in 1983. The Organisation has three Component laboratories with over 45 ongoing research projects in Infectious and Non-communicable diseases, Medical, Industrial and Plant Biology Biotechnology in: Trieste (Italy), New Delhi ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Centre_for_Genetic_Engineering_and_Biotechnology

[Our Vision, Our Mission - ICGEB]
1983 - The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology is launched with the signing of its Statutes (the international treaty sanctioning its existence, deposited with the Secretary General of the United Nations) by 26 countries during a Plenipotentiary Meeting held in Madrid, by the visionaries who recognised the need for ...
URL: https://www.icgeb.org/who-we-are/

[ICGEB- Delhi - IndiaBioscience]
The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), established in 1987, is an international, intergovernmental organization conceived as a Centre of excellence for research and training with special regard to the needs of the developing world. The Centre conducts innovative research in life sciences and strengthens the research capability of its over 60 Member States ...
URL: https://indiabioscience.org/orgs/icgeb-delhi

[International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB ...]
International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB) Posted on September 27, 2019 ICGEB was established in 1987. It is an international, intergovernmental organization conceived as a Centre of excellence for research and training with special emphasis on the needs of the developing world.
URL: https://www.jkuat.ac.ke/school/biomedical/?p=17217

[ICGEB - International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology]
The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), established in 1987, is an international, intergovernmental organisation conceived as a Centre of excellence for research, training and technology transfer to industry in the field of biotechnology to promote sustainable global development.
URL: https://www.impactpool.org/organizations/3151/international-centre-for-genetic-engineering-and-biotechnology


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology] ---
The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB) was established as a project of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) in 1983. The Organisation has three Component laboratories with over 45 ongoing research projects in Infectious and Non-communicable diseases, Medical, Industrial and Plant Biology Biotechnology in: Trieste (Italy), New Delhi (India) and Cape Town (South Africa).
On February 3, 1994, under the direction of Arturo Falaschi the ICGEB became an autonomous International Organisation and now has over 65 Member States across world regions.
Its main pillars of action comprise: Research, Advanced Education through PhD and Postdoctoral Fellowships, International Scientific Meetings and Courses, competitive Grants for scientists in Member States and Technology Transfer to industry.


--- [Our Vision, Our Mission - ICGEB] ---
The ICGEB vision is Science for Development; to be the leading intergovernmental organisation for research, training and technology transfer in Life Sciences and Biotechnology. Our Mission is to combine scientific research with capacity enhancement to promote sustainable global development. We are dedicated to advanced research and training in molecular biology and biotechnology, advancing knowledge by applying the latest techniques in the fields of biomedicine, crop improvement, environmental protection and remediation, biopharmaceuticals, biopesticides, and biofuel production. ICGEB runs state-of-the-art laboratories in Trieste, Italy, New Delhi, India and Cape Town, South Africa and forms an interactive network with almost 70 Member States. It holds a key role in Biotechnology, promoting Research excellence, training, and Technology Transfer to industry, contributing in concrete terms to sustainable global development. Its operations are aligned with those of the United Nations Common System. The ICGEB Board of Governors comprises a representative from each Member State and meets once a year. The Council of Scientific Advisers includes Nobel laureates, who support scientific activities and make recommendations to the Board. Approximately 1,000 people from over 40 countries work at the ICGEB. The majority are scientific personnel, including research scientists, postdoctoral fellows, PhD students, and research technicians. History - 1983 – The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology is launched with the signing of its Statutes (the international treaty sanctioning its existence, deposited with the Secretary General of the United Nations) by 26 countries during a Plenipotentiary Meeting held in Madrid, by the visionaries who recognised the need for developing and applying peaceful uses of genetic engineering and biotechnology for the benefit of mankind. - 1984 – Representatives of the Signatory Countries meet in Vienna, Austria and determine ICGEB’s structure across two Components, one located in Trieste, Italy (also the Headquarters), and one in New Delhi, India, as well as a network of Affiliated Centres. - 1987 – Pending the entry into force of the Statutes, ICGEB starts operations as a special programme of the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO). Implementation of the programme is made possible through funds provided by the Host Governments of Italy and India. - 1987 – Arturo Falaschi is appointed Head of Trieste Component, and on November 25, the first experiment is performed on the premises. - 1994 – The Statutes of the Centre enter into force on 3 February, establishing it as an independent, international organisation . - 2007 – A Third Component of the ICGEB is established in Cape Town, South Africa. - The story continues, with ICGEB counting well over 65 Member States, and burgeoning Regional Research Centres across the globe.


--- [ICGEB- Delhi - IndiaBioscience] ---
Organisations The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology ICGEB- Delhi New Delhi, Delhi & NCR The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), established in 1987, is an international, intergovernmental organization conceived as a Centre of excellence for research and training with special regard to the needs of the developing world. The Centre conducts innovative research in life sciences and strengthens the research capability of its over 60 Member States through training, funding programs and advisory services. Located in Trieste (Italy), New Delhi (India) and Cape Town (South Africa), and in collaboration with over 40 Affiliated Centres worldwide, the three ICGEB Components provide a scientific and educational environment of the highest international standards. Grants Arturo Falaschi Short-term Postdoctoral Fellowships Arturo Falaschi Short-term PhD Fellowships 2024 ICGEB Research Grants 2024 Arturo Falaschi PhD Fellowships 2024 Arturo Falaschi Postdoctoral Fellowships Marie-Skłodowska Curie Postdoctoral Fellowship at ICGEB Arturo Falaschi Short-term PhD Fellowships 2023 ICGEB Research Grants 2023 ICGEB Research Grants 2021 ICGEB Research Grants 2020 Events Jobs News Chikungunya and dengue co-infection Leslee Lazar The nuts and bolts of immune response to dengue: Gaining insight into the disease Urvashi Bhattacharyya Study on RNA recognition by nucleic acid binding protein TAF15 reveals a unique binding mechanism Urvashi Bhattacharyya Posted on in Health & Medicine, Cell Biology, Molecular Biology


--- [International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB ...] ---
No content


--- [ICGEB - International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology] ---
Welcome to the career site of the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB) at Impactpool! The International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), established in 1987, is an international, intergovernmental organisation conceived as a Centre of excellence for research, training and technology transfer to industry in the field of biotechnology to promote sustainable global development. The Centre conducts innovative research in life sciences and strengthens the research capability of its over 60 Member States through training, funding programs and advisory services. Located in Trieste (Italy), New Delhi (India) and Cape Town (South Africa), and in collaboration with over 40 Affiliated Centres worldwide, the three ICGEB Components provide a scientific and educational environment of the highest international standards.
