=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Computer History Museum Opens New Exhibition "Make Software ... - CHM]
Jan 26, 2017 · On January 28, the Computer History Museum will open its newest exhibition “Make Software: Change the World!” The $7 million, 6,000-square-foot exhibition explores how the lives of people everywhere have been transformed by software. Structured around three areas of transformation – Life and Death, Perception and Reality, and Knowledge and Belonging – the exhibition is designed for ...
URL: https://computerhistory.org/press-releases/make-software-exhibition/

[Software Engineers Are the Heroes of New Computer History Museum Exhibit]
Jan 27, 2017 · Tekla Perry writes: The Computer History Museum set out to turn the spotlight on software engineers and show how they are the changing the world. But what projects to feature in the new, permanent exhibit [called "Make Software: Change the World!"] (that opens to the public this Saturday, January 28...
URL: https://developers.slashdot.org/story/17/01/27/0344255/software-engineers-are-the-heroes-of-new-computer-history-museum-exhibit

[Software Engineers Are the Heroes of New Computer History ...]
Jan 26, 2017 · This Saturday, the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif., opens a new exhibition to the public: “Make Software: Change the World!” Its goal—to show that software engineers are truly the heroes of what it calls the “Transformation Age,” changing society in dramatic ways.
URL: https://spectrum.ieee.org/software-engineers-are-the-heroes-of-new-computer-history-museum-exhibit

[Computer History Museum]
Make Software: Change the World! Make Software explores the history, impact ... Launched in 1959, the IBM 1401 was the first widely affordable computer ...
URL: https://computerhistory.org/

[Computer History Museum - Wikipedia]
The Computer History Museum (CHM) is a computer museum in Mountain View, California. The museum presents stories and artifacts of Silicon Valley and the Information Age, and explores the computing revolution and its impact on society.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computer_History_Museum


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Computer History Museum Opens New Exhibition "Make Software ... - CHM] ---
On January 28, the Computer History Museum will open its newest exhibition “Make Software: Change the World!” The $7 million, 6,000-square-foot exhibition explores how the lives of people everywhere have been transformed by software. Structured around three areas of transformation – Life and Death, Perception and Reality, and Knowledge and Belonging – the exhibition is designed for middle schoolers, families, and adults and features multimedia and touchscreen interactives, including the Stata Family Software Lab where visitors can explore coding hands-on. The exhibition is part of the Museum’s new “Transformation Age” strategy, which goes beyond history to explore the sweeping transformation brought about by computing and implications for the future. In a 2016 study by the Pew Research Center, Americans ranked the tech revolution as the third most significant event of their lifetimes – higher than the JFK assassination, Vietnam War and the moon landing. The velocity and scope of this transformation mean government, business, and society will need to be re-thought. In an increasingly digital society, we all need to understand our rapidly transforming environment. The authoritative and objective perspective of the Museum can guide that understanding. “From our vantage point in the heart of Silicon Valley, the Computer History Museum is the major institution in the world attempting to work out the meaning of this ongoing era of transformation – to identify, preserve and present it even as the forces of change shape events in real time,” said John C. Hollar, the Museum’s president and chief executive officer. “We collect, exhibit, educate, publish and story-tell for a singular purpose: We seek to enhance understanding of this modern-day transformation.” The Museum’s Transformation Age strategy is funded by a $30 million, multi-year campaign. The Museum has raised $18.5 million toward that goal. The strategy has three initiatives – Transformation Explained, Transformation Explored, and Transformation Preserved – all of which are designed to connect the dots between the past and the future. Transformation Explained - Exponential Center, opened in 2016, is designed for entrepreneurs and those who support them. Entrepreneurs and computing go hand in hand. Across the world, people want to understand why that is, how it happens, what is special about the way it works in Silicon Valley, and how past innovation connects to the future. The Exponential Center, supported by an advisory board with some of the leading innovators and investors in Silicon Valley, will capture and preserve that history and make those forward-looking connections. - Software History Center, designed primarily for historians, academics and researchers is a $20 million center that leverages the Museum’s extensive collections to understand and tell the story of software, preserving this history for posterity. This center will house the Museum’s growing collection of source code. - Education Center, scheduled to open in 2017, is designed for families, educators and students of all ages. This IDEO designed center extends the Museum’s award-winning education programs that explore not only the “what” but also the “why” and the “how” of computing and encourages visitors to think critically about how technology is changing our lives. Transformation Explored - Exhibits. In addition to the “Make Software: Change the World!” exhibition, the Museum presents a range of exhibits that explore the Transformation Age. • “Revolution: The First 2000 Years of Computing” is a 25,000-square-foot exhibition, featuring 19 galleries, 1,100 objects and an array of original multimedia experiences that chronicles the history of computing on a global scale. - “Where To? A History of Autonomous Vehicles” explores the decades-long challenge of bringing self-driving cars to the public. - “Thinking Big: Ada, Countess of Lovelace” presents the remarkable life of English mathematician and visionary Ada Lovelace. - “Fairchild, Fairchildren, and the Family Tree of Silicon Valley” celebrates the legacy of Fairchild Semiconductor, the company that spawned hundreds of ventures that established Silicon Valley as a world center of entrepreneurial activity and technological leadership. - CHM Live. A speaker series designed for a broad audience curious about the evolution of computing and its role in our lives. Past speakers have included Mark Zuckerberg, Elon Musk, Paul Allen, and Eric Schmidt. Future areas of exploration are cyberwarfare, artificial intelligence, medicine, digital currency and entertainment & gaming. Transformation Preserved - Shustek Center, designed for scholars and historians. The Shustek Center is a $4 million, 50,000-square-foot research center, named for Museum’s Chairman of the Board Len Shustek. The Shustek Center, including a new software preservation lab, will anchor the Museum’s expanding research agenda and house our large and rapidly expanding collection of digital assets. - Cisco Archive Project. This groundbreaking collaboration with Cisco Systems taps into the Museum's extensive experience in computing history and archive management to preserve and reveal Cisco's significant role in shaping the Internet. About the Computer History Museum The Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California, is a nonprofit organization with a four-decade history as the world’s leading institution exploring the history of computing and its ongoing impact on society. The Museum is dedicated to the preservation and celebration of computer history and is home to the largest international collection of computing artifacts in the world, encompassing computer hardware, software, documentation, ephemera, photographs, and moving images. The Museum brings computer history to life through large-scale exhibits, an acclaimed speaker series, a dynamic website, docent-led tours, and an award-winning education program. The Museum’s signature exhibition is “Revolution: The First 2000 Years of Computing,” described by USA Today as “the Valley’s answer to the Smithsonian.” Other current exhibits include the “IBM 1401 Demo Lab,” “PDP-1 Demo Lab,” and “Where To? A History of Autonomous Vehicles.” Press Contacts PR Team [email protected] (650) 810-1059


--- [Software Engineers Are the Heroes of New Computer History Museum Exhibit] ---
No content


--- [Software Engineers Are the Heroes of New Computer History ...] ---
A museum dedicated to collecting and displaying the artifacts of computing history, like pieces of the ENIAC and the Apple I, has turned its focus on something far less tangible—software engineering. This Saturday, the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif., opens a new exhibition to the public: “Make Software: Change the World!” Its goal—to show that software engineers are truly the heroes of what it calls the “Transformation Age,” changing society in dramatic ways. Computer History Museum visitors try reading MRIs as part of an interactive exhibitPhoto: Tekla Perry The US $7 million exhibit, for the first time, includes a large interactive component—hands on tasks and games designed for children approximately aged ten and up. That age target was picked, museum vice president Kirsten Tashev said, because it is during the middle school years that children start thinking seriously about what they want to do with their lives. The exhibit also aims to show tourists, who represent 40 percent of the museum’s visitors, what Silicon Valley is all about, and to help local software engineers explain what their careers involve to their children and parents. “This exhibit makes them look cooler to their kids,” says Tashev. Selecting exactly what software developments could best tell the story of software engineering was a challenge for curators. The team came up with a list of 100 important applications of software likely to be familiar to the average person today, and whittled that list down to seven projects, dividing them into three thematic areas: - Perception and Reality, which tells the history of photo editing, culminating with Photoshop, and of digital music, in particular, the MP3 (and lets visitors test their ears in distinguishing between different recording technologies). - Life and Death, which tells the story of the development of the MRI (and lets visitors try their hands at MRI interpretation) and of car crash simulation - Knowledge and Belonging, which goes behind the scenes of Wikipedia to explain the world of the Wikipedians, looks at World of Warcraft, and describes the development and impact of texting (a speed-texting challenge in this section is likely to be a hit among teen visitors; advice to the museum staff—you’ll need a couple more stations for this one). Not all the interactive exhibits at the Computer History Museum are electronicPhoto: Tekla Perry Museum staff noted that they made these selections before any companies were contacted, though the companies included were helpful. One certainly could—and lots of people will—argue about these selections; staff members note that in particular they’ve had a lot of pushback about the inclusion of World of Warcraft. (I’d be interested in knowing what seven technologies you would have picked, in the comments below.) In spite of the difficulty of displaying software as an artifact (beyond early packages of each commercial product displayed), each section of the exhibit has plenty of “stuff,” in particular, items showing how a particular task was accomplished before today’s software took over. In the MP3 section, for example, the display includes an Edison phonograph doll, a portable music player invented in the 1870s that used wax cylinders. “We like to put computer history in the context of human history,” Tashev explained. The curators also like to remind visitors, no matter what their age, of their place in contemporary history, offering up, for example, a recreation of the kind of record store I visited as a teen. (Thanks for the memories!) This large touch table encourages visitors to learn basic programming skills in order to direct a frog to catch bugsPhoto: Tekla Perry The central hub of the exhibit space focuses on programming in general, with traditional computers running programming challenges and touch tables running a programming game called Frog Pond. (I got really into this game and could certainly have spent more time there.) A small theater in this section runs a short documentary on the development of the Adobe Mix app: filmmakers followed the Adobe team working on the project for two years. Tashev hopes this will just be the first of many documentaries produced for the collection telling stories of software developments. Tekla S. Perry is a former IEEE Spectrum editor. Based in Palo Alto, Calif., she's been covering the people, companies, and technology that make Silicon Valley a special place for more than 40 years. An IEEE member, she holds a bachelor's degree in journalism from Michigan State University.


--- [Computer History Museum] ---
Fifty years ago, Apple Computer was founded with a radical idea: that powerful computing should be personal. Now, Apple is one of the most influential companies in history, shaping how billions of people interact with technology every day. We’re celebrating Apple’s 50th anniversary at CHM with special programs, an exhibit of rare prototypes, digital stories from the collection, and more. We hope you’ll join us! MUSEUM HOURS Monday and Tuesday: Closed Wednesday–Sunday 10 a.m.–5 p.m. Holidays and Closures Discover what chatbots are, where they come from, and why they matter. Have a conversation with a chatbot-powered robot and hear from experts about our future with AI. A great selection of unique, tech-inspired gifts are now available in our brand-new online store! Inspired by our collection and exhibits, we offer curated products that highlight computing and technology. Explore gifts, clothing, books, items for the home and office, kids’ stuff, and more. Every purchase supports CHM. Become part of the movement transforming how people understand our computing history, digital present, and future impact on humanity by donating today. Donate


--- [Computer History Museum - Wikipedia] ---
The Computer History Museum (CHM) is a computer museum in Mountain View, California. The museum presents stories and artifacts of Silicon Valley and the Information Age, and explores the computing revolution and its impact on society.


