=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sketch of Michelangelo's Taddei Tondo, - Royal Academy of Arts]
This pen and ink sketch depicts Michelangelo's 'Taddei Tondo', in the Royal Academy collection. The relief sculpture, depicting the Virgin and Child with the infant St. John, was drawn by John Constable on 1st July 1830, indicating that the eminent landscape painter hurried to draw this famous sculpture within a week of its arrival at the Academy.The relief was bequeathed to the RA by Sir ...
URL: https://www.royalacademy.org.uk/art-artists/work-of-art/sketch-of-michelangelos-taddei-tondo-1

[Taddei Tondo - Wikipedia]
Following its arrival at the Royal Academy, the tondo was sketched by Constable, who published a letter in the Athenaeum of 3 July 1830 praising the way it was lit, "showing the more finished parts to advantage, and causing those less perfect to become masses of shadow, having at a distance all the effect of a rich picture in chiaroscuro ". [18]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taddei_Tondo

[The UK's only marble Michelangelo takes pride of place at new ...]
May 17, 2018 · Wilkie made a sketch of it, and it was also sketched by John Constable on the occasion of its arrival at the Royal Academy in 1830, following Beaumont’s death. Beaumont had stipulated in...
URL: https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2018/05/17/the-uks-only-marble-michelangelo-takes-pride-of-place-at-new-royal-academy

[Britain's only Michelangelo marble - Art UK]
Jun 21, 2017 · The tondo was duly delivered to the Royal Academy in the summer of 1830 at the cost of a £1. The artist John Constable sketched it almost as soon as it arrived, describing it as 'one of the most beautiful works in existence'. Sketch of Michelangelo's Taddei Tondo 1830 John Constable (1776–1837) Royal Academy of Arts
URL: https://artuk.org/discover/stories/britains-only-michelangelo-marble

[Taddei Tondo - Wikiwand]
Following its arrival at the Royal Academy, the tondo was sketched by Constable, who published a letter in the Athenaeum of 3 July 1830 praising the way it was lit, "showing the more finished parts to advantage, and causing those less perfect to become masses of shadow, having at a distance all the effect of a rich picture in chiaroscuro ". [18]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Taddei_Tondo


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sketch of Michelangelo's Taddei Tondo, - Royal Academy of Arts] ---
John Constable RA (1776 - 1837) RA Collection: Art This pen and ink sketch depicts Michelangelo's 'Taddei Tondo', in the Royal Academy collection. The relief sculpture, depicting the Virgin and Child with the infant St. John, was drawn by John Constable on 1st July 1830, indicating that the eminent landscape painter hurried to draw this famous sculpture within a week of its arrival at the Academy. The relief was bequeathed to the RA by Sir George Beaumont and delivered to Somerset House at the end of June 1830. Beaumont had acquired Michelangelo's tondo in Italy in 1822 and subsequently brought it to London to hang in the picture gallery of his house at Grosvenor Square. Although many artists and other visitors were able to see the sculpture at Beaumont's house, there seems to have been some excitement surrounding its transfer to the Royal Academy. Constable's enthusiasm for the sculpture is certainly clear from a letter he wrote to the Athenaeum outlining its recent history. This was published on July 3rd 1830 but was probably written several days beforehand, around the time that Constable made this sketch. In the letter, Constable describes the tondo on display in the Council Room of Somerset House, remarking: 'In this favourable situation the light falls from the left, showing the more finished parts to advantage, and causing those less perfect to become masses of shadow, having at a distance all the effect of a rich picture in chiaroscuro'. Ironically, his sketch gives little impression of the tondo's three-dimensional form. Instead, the sculpture is drawn in rapid, curving strokes with little detail and no shading and was probably made as an aide-memoire or possibly a sketch for a more finished depiction of the piece. Further reading: Graham Reynolds, The Later Paintings and Drawings of John Constable, Yale, New Haven and London, 1984, cat. no. 30. 9, p. 219 and pl. 777 John Constable's Discourses, compiled and annotated by R.B. Beckett, London, 1970, pp. 78-80 John Constable's Correspondence: The Fishers , edited by R.B. Beckett, London, 1968, p. 261 The Morning Herald , 2 June 1830 The Athenaeum, 3 July1830 Sidney C. Hutchison, The History of the Royal Academy 1768–1968, London 1968, p. 97 Supported by Brian Smith 115 mm x 127 mm


--- [Taddei Tondo - Wikipedia] ---
The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St. John is an unfinished marble relief tondo (circular composition) of the Madonna and Child and the infant Saint John the Baptist, by the Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. It is in the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London. The tondo is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain. A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique, the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch".


--- [The UK's only marble Michelangelo takes pride of place at new ...] ---
500: INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR Code: MIDDLEWARE_INVOCATION_FAILED ID: fra1::h9zsh-1772540211050-86beca924020 MIDDLEWARE_INVOCATION_FAILED fra1::h9zsh-1772540211050-86beca924020


--- [Britain's only Michelangelo marble - Art UK] ---
No content


--- [Taddei Tondo - Wikiwand] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Taddei Tondo Sculpture by Michelangelo From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St. John is an unfinished marble relief tondo (circular composition) of the Madonna and Child and the infant Saint John the Baptist, by the Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. It is in the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London. The tondo is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain.[1] A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique,[2] the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch".[3][4][5][6] Remove ads Physical history Summarize Perspective The tondo dates to Michelangelo's time in Florence before his move to Rome in 1505. According to the art historian, Vasari, while working on his David, Michelangelo "also at this time... blocked out but did not finish two marble tondi, one for Taddeo Taddei, today in his house, and for Bartolomeo Pitti he began another... which works were considered outstanding and marvellous".[7][note 1] To the lower right of the back of the relief is a ligature combining the letters L and A, probably the mark of another carver or dealer, considered most likely to be the initials of Lapo d'Antonio di Lapo, active at the Opera del Duomo and for a short period in 1506-1507, one of Michelangelo's assistants. A chisel blow on the reverse seemingly from this earlier phase resulted in a hairline crack in the face of the Virgin that may only have become apparent as carving progressed. In consideration of his motivation to continue working on the damaged marble after that was obvious, speculation exists about whether Michelangelo, known for his concern for his materials, was constrained by a shortage of ready alternatives, or, considering his success with the damaged block for David, was more accepting of flaws because he was confident in his ability to work around them.[4] The missing segment to the bottom right may be a result of an excess of his celebrated "direct attack".[8] At some point, however, work on the tondo ceased. Five holes in the outer rim of the tondo were intended for fixings and are variously dated.[2] Although unfinished, the tondo appeared in the Palazzo Taddei and is documented as still there in 1568, but by 1678, the family had moved to a new residence near San Remigio.[8] At an unknown date the tondo was taken to Rome, where it was acquired from Jean-Baptiste Wicar by Sir George Beaumont in 1822. Initially hung at Beaumont's house in Grosvenor Square, it was bequeathed to the academy in 1830 and installed at Somerset House, before moving with the academy to the east wing of the new National Gallery building in 1836, where it remained until the academy relocated to Burlington House in 1868. Except for an exhibition at the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1960, the tondo has been housed and displayed in various academy locations ever since. The discovery of the hairline crack running through the upper half of the marble contributed to the decision in 1989 to provide a permanent home for the tondo. Subsequently the tondo was cleaned with dichloromethane swabs and clay poultices to remove residues of nineteenth-century plaster casts and their oil-based release agents, packing materials, traces of beeswax and pine resin adhesives, and other surface accretions. The tondo was left unwaxed and no other coating was applied, as the work is not "finished" and originally had not been polished (as was the David when finished). Since the opening of the Sackler Wing of Galleries in 1991, the tondo has been on free public display in an area designed for it on the top floor that was positioned for reasons of preventive conservation behind protective glass, to combat the effects of air pollution and the possibility of vandalism.[2][9] Remove ads Description Summarize Perspective The tondo as a format for painting and relief sculpture was a quintessential product of the Florentine Renaissance. During the century after 1430, all the leading artists created tondi, including Filippo Lippi, Botticelli, Luca Signorelli, Piero di Cosimo, Fra Bartolomeo, Andrea del Sarto, Leonardo da Vinci (in a lost work), and Raphael.[10][11] For a few years Michelangelo also experimented with the form. He executed the Doni tondo, his only panel painting documented in contemporary sources, and he also began two unfinished tondo sculptures, the Pitti and Taddei tondi, but after that he never returned to the tondo form in either medium.[10][12] This tondo depicts a seated Virgin Mary with the baby Jesus dynamically sprawled across her lap, turning and looking back over his right shoulder toward the infant Saint John the Baptist, who stands before him looking down and holding a fluttering bird. When viewing the composition, the eye of the viewer is drawn diagonally along Christ's body, back up that of his mother, follows her gaze across to John, and from his face back to Christ.[2] John, patron saint of Florence, with his attribute of a baptismal bowl, crosses his arms, perhaps in allusion to the cross.[3] Most likely the bird he holds is a goldfinch not a dove - Christian symbolism sees in this bird a representation of the Passion.[13] The unfinished portion of the marble below the bird might have been intended to become a crown of thorns.[2] Michelangelo's execution with only a point and claw chisel, often driven hard and with great energy, is a combination of techniques that helps create a sense of "surface unity" unbroken by the use of the drill.[2] The Christ child, almost completely in full relief is the only figure that is highly finished (except for the feet), St. John is much less finished, Mary is the least finished, and the background is only roughly executed. One critic declares a belief that these marked variations in texture help establish the relative status of the three figures while creating a sense of compositional depth all the greater for not being more conventionally "finished".[2] Many of Michelangelo's works are unfinished.[14] Circumstances around each being unfinished vary. Critical opinions address some of his unfinished works as if completed, however. The nineteenth-century French sculptor and critic Eugène Guillaume declared that, what he labeled as Michelangelo's "non finito", was "one of the master's expressive devices in his quest for infinite suggestiveness".[8] Remove ads Influence and reception Summarize Perspective The tondo was commissioned by Taddeo Taddei. He was a patron and friend of Raphael, a young contemporary to Michelangelo also working in Florence. Raphael studied and reworked the tondo in two drawings, the versi of The Storming of Perugia now at the Louvre as well as compositional studies for the Madonna del Prato now at Chatsworth House.[15] Raphael also applied the concept of Michelangelo's twisting body of the Christ child stretching across his mother's lap in Bridgewater Madonna.[16] Shortly after its arrival in England, Michelangelo's tondo was sketched by Wilkie, who wrote to Beaumont "your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists. It is indeed a great addition to our stock of art, and is the only work that has appeared in this northern latitude to justify the great reputation of its author".[17] Cockerell noted in his diary how "the subject seems growing from the marble & emerging into life. It assumes by degrees its shape, features from an unformed mass, as it were you trace & watch its birth from the sculptor's mind".[1] Following its arrival at the Royal Academy, the tondo was sketched by Constable, who published a letter in the Athenaeum of 3 July 1830 praising the way it was lit, "showing the more finished parts to advantage, and causing those less perfect to become masses of shadow, having at a distance all the effect of a rich picture in chiaroscuro".[18] With its differing degrees of finish the tondo is an outstanding technical study piece; plaster casts may be found at the Victoria and Albert Museum and Fitzwilliam Museum.[3][19][20] Gallery - Sketch by Sir David Wilkie (c.1823) - Sketch by John Constable (1830) See also Notes - "et ancora in questo tempo abbozzò e non finì due tondi di marmo, uno a Taddeo Taddei, oggi in casa sua, et a Bartolomeo Pitti ne cominciò un altro... le quali opere furono tenute egregie e mirabili" References External links Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads
