=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dean Cornwell - Childs Gallery]
In 1919 and 1921, Cornwell won first prize for his illustrations of the Wilmington Society of Fine Arts. In 1922, Cornwell won the Chicago Art Institute's Award of Merit and was elected president of the Society of Illustrators.
URL: https://childsgallery.com/artist/dean-cornwell/

[Dean Cornwell - National Museum of American Illustration]
Dean Cornwell taught and lectured at the Art Students League in New York City and served as president of the Society of Illustrators from 1922 to 1926. He received gold medals for mural painting from the Architectural League of New York, as well as gold medals from the Allied Artists of America and the Society of Illustrators.
URL: https://americanillustration.org/project/dean-cornwell/

[History of the Society - Society of Illustrators]
History of the Society On February 1, 1901, nine artists and one businessman founded the Society of Illustrators with the following credo: "The object of the Society shall be to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time." This simple dictum has held true for over a century.
URL: https://societyillustrators.org/about/history-of-the-society/

[Category:Presidents of the Society of Illustrators - Wikipedia]
Pages in category "Presidents of the Society of Illustrators" The following 7 pages are in this category, out of 7 total. This list may not reflect recent changes.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Presidents_of_the_Society_of_Illustrators

[first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎]
以下是一些例句： The first step is to gather your materials. Firstly, let's discuss the budget. First of all, we need to identify the problem. 在大多数情况下，"first" 和 "firstly" 可以互换使用，但 "firstly" 通常用于强调某件事是最重要的。 "first of all" 则通常用于引出一系列要点或步骤。
URL: https://www.zhihu.com/question/626729181


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dean Cornwell - Childs Gallery] ---
Filter by Type Filter by Category Filter by Size Filter by Year Dean Cornwell 1892-1960 For over three decades, Dean Cornwell was recognized as the "Dean of Illustrators", and was a celebrated and well-known name during his lifetime. He was widely regarded as an instructor and idolized by a generation of illustrators, lecturing at the Art Students League and at art museums and societies throughout the United States during the “Golden Age of Illustration”. His paintings were exhibited at the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Art, the Chicago Art Institute, the Pratt Institute, the Art Center of New York City, and the National Academy of Design. Between 1914 and the late 1950's he produced over 1000 illustrations for poems, stories, and novels. Between 1920 and the mid-1950's, his illustrations appeared in magazines and posters as advertising for hundreds of products, such as Palmolive Soap, Coca-Cola, Goodyear tired, and Seagrams Whiskey. In addition to his career as an illustrator, between 1930 and 1960, Cornwell was one of America's most popular muralists. His historic murals decorate over 20 public buildings across the United States. Cornwell was an illustrator who tried to find a meaningful role in a world constantly changing with technology. His greatest inspirations were Howard Pyle, N.C. Wyeth, Edwin A. Abbey, and Harvey Dunn. Despite Cornwell's prolific and well-regarded work, today he is much less well known than during his lifetime. This trend is, however, well on its way to being reversed. The “Golden Age of Illustration” is being revived by collectors—most notably works by Cornwell’s colleagues Norman Rockwell, and N. C. Wyeth. And, after a period in which all representational art of the twentieth century was suspect to many of the most prominent critics, realism is again beginning to dominate the art scene—Beginning Again if you will. Dean Cornwell was born on March 5, 1892 in Louisville, Kentucky to a family with a strong pioneer heritage. Cornwell's boyhood home overlooked Mile Pond, and as a result of severe headaches he suffered from as a child which prevented him from studying much, he spent long hours on the riverbank watching the riverboats pass by. Some of his earliest drawings have a steamboat theme. From an early age, both of Cornwell's parents encouraged his attempts at drawing and both complemented and critiqued his perspective and composition. Cornwell's mother taught him to observe and identify different plants and trees, which was later reflected in his illustrations of natural history. After elementary school, Cornwell attended Manual Training high school with little academic success. He loved to draw, but as his vision began to worsen, Cornwell abandoned his hopes of an art career and joined a union as a professional musician. He had played the cornet since his youth. However, when Cornwell turned 18, he was fitted with glasses which vastly improved his sight and again began to dream of a career as an artist. He began art lessons and soon published his first drawing, The Snow Fort, which appeared on the children's page of The Courier Journal. Cornwell then began drawing cartoons of visiting musical shows for The Louisville Herald, where he was promoted to the position of full-time staff member. During this period in his life, Cornwell continued to play the cornet during the summers at nearby mountain resorts. In 1911, Cornwell relocated to Chicago and attended classes at the Chicago Art Institute sporadically. He also returned to newspaper work at this time. He would make tracings in pen and ink over silver-prints from photographs of machinery and other merchandise. Cornwell also supplemented his income by painting scenery for window displays and drawing cartoons. Cornwell was then hired at The Chicago American, which he drew borders and made layouts for the theatrical and magazine sections. Next, he was hired as a staff artist and expert letterer as well as the illustrator for the Sunday feature page at the Chicago Tribune. These experiences form the basis for Cornwell's reputation as a competent commercial artist. Soon, Cornwell held the position of top newspaper illustrator. Cornwell set a goal to become a New York illustrator, the pinnacle of success in his eyes. He was soon hired by Ray Long, editor at Red Book Magazine, who gave him his first magazine commission for three illustrations for the November 1914 issue. In 1915, Cornwell moved to New York and enrolled in the Art Student's League. Here he met Harvey Dunn, who invited him to participate in a three month summer school course that he and Charles Chapman were conducting in Leonia, New Jersey. Dunn and Chapman had formed this school to teach illustration as a result of their dissatisfaction with current teaching methods of most art schools of the time. Dunn's summer course taught the basic principles and beliefs of Howard Pyle, with whom Dunn had studied as a young man. Pyle had founded the Brandywine School of Illustration and inspired many students with idealism and a sense of mission in their artwork. Cornwell thought of himself as a "grand-pupil of Pyle." During this summer, Cornwell absorbed Dunn's philosophy of painting and studied the effects of light on form and tonal values. He would use these lighting techniques in his future work. In fall of 1915, Cornwell returned to New York. In 1916, Ray Long sent Cornwell another commission for more illustrations. Long was greatly impressed with Cornwell's new and dramatic use of light and was delighted with the new tonal quality of his paintings. As a result, Long gave Cornwell commissions for Red Book short stories, a serialized novel, and stories for the Saturday Evening Post. Despite Dunn's horror at Cornwell's decision to paint advertising illustrations, Cornwell disagreed with his mentor and believed in the validity of advertising art and the fusion of fine and commercial art. During the 1920's and 1930's, Cornwell's illustrations for short stories, poems, and serialized novels appeared in Cosmopolitan, Hearst's International, Good Housekeeping, and Harper's Bazaar. During a 1918 visit to Chicago, Cornwell met Mildred Kirkham, an editorial assistant at the Chicago Tribune. In September of that year they married and moved to a New York apartment on Broadway. Married life between them was difficult from the start, partially a result of Mildred's disapproval of Dean's enjoyment of social drinking. Cornwell soon began a series of extramarital romances, many with models who posed for his illustrations or worked in his studio. In 1920, the Cornwell's son Kirkham was born, and in 1922 a daughter Patricia joined the family. Cornwell slowly became more well-known and prosperous, and the Cornwells then moved to Mamaroneck, New York and summered in Annisquam, Massachusetts. From 1935 until Cornwell's death he and his wife lived separately but never divorced. Cornwell worked 7 days a week most of his life. He enjoyed playing the cornet and the drum in his spare time. He was also very active in many professional organizations, such as the National Arts Club, the Society of Illustrators, the Society of Mural Painters, and the Century Association. In 1919 and 1921, Cornwell won first prize for his illustrations of the Wilmington Society of Fine Arts. In 1922, Cornwell won the Chicago Art Institute's Award of Merit and was elected president of the Society of Illustrators. During the 1920's Cornwell decided to abandon many of the earlier Dunn techniques he had utilized and began instead to work in a more vigorous, less atmospheric style. Between 1919 and 1927, Cornwell painted in the style that established his reputation as "Dean of Illustrators." Until the mid-1940's, Cornwell illustrated short stories and novels that served the sort of high adventure and emotion, escapist entertainment function of today's soap operas. His illustrations reflected the hopes, ideals, ambitions, and prejudices of the American people, especially of the American women readers of Cosmopolitan, Hearst's, and Red Book. For example, from 1916 through the mid-1920's, Cornwell illustrated stories of love and adventure largely set in exotic lands or on the high seas. His heroes and heroines reflected stereotypes of manliness and femininity of that time period. He also produced many illustrations of the Wild West. Then, during the 1930's and 1940's, Cornwell changed his style of illustration to follow the times and began painting in a hard-edged, literal style. His paintings of the 1940's reflect the ideals of the decade and changing standards of beauty and good looks. By the late 1930's, Cornwell's heroines were either sophisticated adventurers or helpless women in need of male protection. During the 1940's, when the wholesome girl-next-door ideal was popular, that is what Cornwell portrayed. During the 1940's and 1950's, Cornwell's calendars and posters illustrate the values and beliefs of these decades, especially the pyramidal structure of the conventional family and strong patriarchal traditions. In 1929, Cornwell signed a contract with Hearst Publications which set out generous rates for his work. However, at the height of his fame as an illustrator, Cornwell sought immortality as an artist through a more permanent form of artistic creation--mural painting. He apprenticed himself to Frank Brangwyn in England to pursue this goal, and from this point on looked upon illustration only as a means of supporting his family. After returning to New York after his apprenticeship, Cornwell won a competition for the chance to decorate the central rotunda of the Lost Angeles Public Library for his plan for a mural depicting the history of California, beginning with the early discoverers and ending with the '49-ers. He traveled to London to complete the murals in Brangwyn's studio and worked on them there for three years. The completed murals inspired a mixed reception upon his return. In 1932, Cornwell completed murals for the Lincoln Memorial Shrine in Redlands, California. In 1938, he painted a series of murals for the Raleigh Room of the Warwick Hotel in New York City. In 1939, Cornwell created a mural for the General Motors exhibition at the New York World's Fair, and finally, in 1941, he painted two murals for the Tennessee State Office Building in Nashville, Tennessee. During this period of his life he worked nearly constantly on murals and served as the president of the Mural Painter's Society between 1953 and 1956. At the time of his death, Cornwell was working on a mural for the Berkshire Life Insurance Company in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. Norman Rockwell has originally been commissioned for the project but had detested it and soon abandoned it. Cornwell redesigned that mural and his assistant, Cliff Young, completed it after his death. During the last six years of his life, Cornwell lived in a New York studio apartment on 67th Street. He was assisted and cared for by his model, Bill Magner. In the winter of 1960 at the age of 68, Cornwell suffered severe abdominal pains resulting from a ruptured main artery and died. Dean Cornwell made major contributions to the body of American art as an illustrator, though he believed his place in art would be achieved through mural painting. Cornwell proved himself to be a master of portraying the changing lives and dreams of the American people during the early to middle twentieth century. - biographical material summarized from: Broder, Patricia Jean. Dean Cornwell- Dean of Illustrators. Balance House, Ltd. New York, 1978.


--- [Dean Cornwell - National Museum of American Illustration] ---
1922, oil on canvas 36" x 28", signed and dated lower right The Desert Healer, by E.M. Hull, Cosmopolitan, 1922 1942, oil on canvas 50" x 75", signed lower left 1923, oil on canvas 28" x 45 1/2", signed lower right "Never the Twain Shall Meet," by Peter B. Kyne, 1923, dustjacket Dean Cornwell 1892–1960 Dean Cornwell was a brilliant left-handed painter and muralist who dominated the illustration field for many years. Dean Cornwell began his professional art career at age 18 as a cartoonist for the Louisville Herald. A year later, he enrolled at the Chicago Art Institute and went to work in the art department of the Chicago Tribune. At the Chicago Art Institute, he met and studied under prominent art educator Harvey Dunn. In 1915 Dean Cornwell followed Dunn to New York and joined him in his studio-classroom. After studying with Dunn Cornwell quickly became a success, although he eventually developed his own bold, light-drenched style. He married artist Mildred Montrose Kirkham in Chicago in 1918, but his constant extramarital affairs caused the couple to separate after just a few years of marriage. They had two children but never divorced. Dean Cornwell always had a strong work ethic and often worked seventeen-hour days, seven days a week. He produced over 1,000 illustrations for nearly every major publication in the country including Cosmopolitan, Harper's Bazaar, Redbook, and Good Housekeeping magazines. In 1926 he signed a long-term contract with Cosmopolitan for the unheard-of annual salary at the time of $100,000, about $1,350,000 today. He illustrated the work of authors including Pearl S. Buck, Lloyd Douglas, Edna Ferber, Ernest Hemingway, W. Somerset Maugham, and Owen Wister. He did advertising illustrations for hundreds of companies including GM, Eastern Airlines, Pennsylvania Railroad, Paul Jones Whiskey, Aunt Jemima, Seagram’s Gin, Woodbury Soap, Palmolive, Coca-Cola, Goodyear, New York Life and Squibb. During the first World War he produced posters promoting the war effort. He was a major presence in American illustration during the first half of the 20th century. Due to his popularity he was nicknamed the “Dean of Illustrators.” In 1927 he decided to devote the rest of his life to mural painting and traveled to England to study mural painting for three years under famous muralist and autodidact Frank Brangwyn. Brangwyn selected Cornwell to assist him in a series of murals, including one at the House of Lords. Cornwell claimed that he rarely made much money from his murals and he continued his illustration work whenever he needed money. Dean Cornwell’s murals include his well-known work at the Los Angeles Public Library that was four-forty-feet-wide by forty-foot-high, took five years to complete and told the history of California. Also in California is his mural at the Lincoln Memorial Shrine in Redlands. Cornwell painted murals in New York City at the Eastern Airlines Building (now 10 Rockefeller Plaza), the Raleigh Room at the Hotel Warwick, and the General Motors mural at the 1939 World's Fair. He also painted murals at the New England Telephone (now Verizon) headquarters building in Boston, the Davidson County Courthouse and Sevier State Office Building in Tennessee, and the Centre William Rappard in Geneva, Switzerland. During the depression he painted Federal Art Project murals in post offices in Chapel Hill and Morganton, North Carolina. Dean Cornwell taught and lectured at the Art Students League in New York City and served as president of the Society of Illustrators from 1922 to 1926. He received gold medals for mural painting from the Architectural League of New York, as well as gold medals from the Allied Artists of America and the Society of Illustrators. Cornwell's 1928 Washing the Savior's Feet, originally painted for Good Housekeeping, was accepted for display by Britain's prestigious Royal Academy, one of the few American artists to receive this honor. In 1934 he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate Academician and became a full Academician in 1940. He served as President of the National Society of Mural Painters from 1953 to 1957. In 1959 he was inducted into the Society of Illustrator's Hall of Fame. Dean Cornwell died on December 4, 1960 in New York City.


--- [History of the Society - Society of Illustrators] ---
On February 1, 1901, nine artists and one businessman founded the Society of Illustrators with the following credo: “The object of the Society shall be to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time.” This simple dictum has held true for over a century. At a time when illustration was in what has been called its Golden Age, the first monthly dinners were attended by prominent artists including Howard Pyle, Maxfield Parish, N.C. Wyeth, Charles Dana Gibson, Frederic Remington, James Montgomery Flagg, Howard Chandler Christy and special guests such as Mark Twain and Andrew Carnegie. During World War I, as part of a public relations effort by the U.S. government, Charles Dana Gibson was called upon to assemble a group of artists who would create posters to generate support for the war. Gibson, who served as president and helped bring the Society to national prominence, was an ardent advocate of the cause. He enlisted Flagg, Wyeth, Joseph Pennell and others—artists who would produce some of the war’s most lasting imagery. In a time before widespread use of journalistic photography, eight Society members were commissioned by the army and sent to France to sketch impressions of war. Following the armistice, the Society operated the School for Disabled Soldiers. Throughout its history, the Society’s members have been involved, either in service to, or, on occasion, in protest of American military activity. During and following the war, members continued to have exhibitions at prominent galleries in New York. Incorporated in the 1920s, the Society welcomed women to full membership, an anomaly to most social and professional organizations of the time. The Roaring Twenties and the decade of the Great Depression were the heyday of the Society’s Illustrators Shows (aka the Girlie Shows). Society members produced these popular entertainments – they wrote the theatrical skits and songs, created the sets, and were the actors, along with their models. Outside talent, such as the Cotton Club Band and Jimmy Durante, were called upon for their professional skills. Invitees to these well attended events included Jazz Age Mayor Jimmy Walker and Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, who, in 1935, luckily failed to attend the night police raided it due to the risqué nature of the nude dancing. In the early twenties, through the auspices of member Watson Barrett, the Illustrators Show was performed at the Shubert Theater, the success of which prompted the Shubert family to purchase the rights to the skits for their own production of Artists and Models in 1923. By the end of the thirties, those funds allowed the Society to acquire its present headquarters on the Upper East Side. Taking advantage of depressed real estate prices, illustrator Wallace Morgan found the building, which would become home to the Society in August 1939. Member Norman Rockwell’s painting, Dover Coach, became the background for the fourth floor bar. Today it continues this auspicious function at the third floor bar. The contribution of Society members during World War II was intense. They participated in massive poster campaigns, created illustrations from and about scenes of the war in Europe and the Pacific, and participated in a program whereby illustrators visited veterans’ hospitals to sketch the wounded. These portraits were then sent on to the subjects’ families as morale boosters. Putting other skills to work, the Illustrators’ Jazz Band was formed to entertain wounded troops. Following the war, the Society’s Welfare Fund was established in 1946 to aid artists in need. And in 1948 the Joint Ethics Committee, of which the Society is a member, developed the first Code of Ethics and Fair Practice to establish equitable relationships in the practices of selling and buying art. Lectures, demonstrations and drawing classes were, and continue to be, regularly held at the Society. In 1954, as part of the U.S. Air Force Art Program, illustrators were given the opportunity to travel around the world to military facilities and exercises to record these events and donate their works to a “grateful nation.” (While most trips were benign for the participating artist, in early 1968 during the Tet Offensive in Vietnam, some artists were caught in the fighting.) Thousands of paintings have been contributed to the program, which continues today. Similar programs for the U.S. Coast Guard and the National Parks Service are now in place as examples of the Society’s continuing contribution to the national welfare. While the Society’s support of the military has been longstanding, in 1972 members put on an anti-Vietnam War show titled “Genocide,” and in 2008 “Artists Against the War” was mounted in protest to the war in Iraq. The 1950s saw the creation of three of the Society’s most enduring institutions. Early in the decade, the first Scholarship Fund was established, a program that has benefited countless illustration students nationwide. In 1958 the Society’s Hall of Fame named Norman Rockwell as its first member. Selected annually by former presidents, this honor has since been bestowed on over 150 artists, living and posthumously, for “distinguished achievement in the art of illustration”. At the decade’s close, partly in reaction to the prevalence of photography in graphic arts competitions and exhibitions, especially those of the Art Directors Club of New York, the Society wanted to refocus attention to the art of illustration and the innovative pictorial responses to shifts in technology and the marketplace. In 1959, members Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson and Stevan Dohanos, among others, juried the First Annual Exhibition that resulted in a show of 350 original artworks. The first Illustrators Annual book followed. For the 25th edition, the book went to full color and in 2005 the format changed from hard to soft cover. In 2009, the system for gathering entries and the jurying process went fully digital – although the art was open to all media. The Society’s commitment to community involvement has included the participation of Society members, from 1961 to 1965, at the Saturday School of the Warwick Training School for Boys, what had been a “reform school” since the 1930s; outreach programs in conjunction with the Police Athletic League (from 1966), the New York City Parks Department, and the Board of Education (from 1999). Since 1992 the Society has donated more than 6,000 children’s books to shelters and charities citywide. Other memorable Society events include the filming of Loving in 1969, a movie starring George Segal, who portrayed a frustrated illustrator; the comprehensive exhibition “200 Years of American Illustration,” curated by the Society of Illustrators and held at the New-York Historical Society in 1976; and the publication of the book of that show, one of many volumes published by the Society over the years – books that have become collectors’ items in some cases. Under the stewardship of then president John Witt, the Museum of American Illustration was established in 1981. Today the Society’s Permanent Collection includes over 2,500 works by such legendary artists as Norman Rockwell, Howard Pyle, N.C. Wyeth, Rockwell Kent, Bob Peak, Bernie Fuchs and Brad Holland. 2001, the Society’s Centennial, was a year long celebration that began with a United States Postal issue: Great American Illustrators. Following the September attacks, the year ended with the “9/11 Memorial Exhibition: Prevailing Human Spirit.” The Society of Illustrators is an organization of many layers, one which provides illustrators a center to discuss, demonstrate and exhibit their work, contributes to future artists and to the community at large, honors its preeminent practitioners, takes a stand on legal and ethical issues affecting the profession – and has a great dining room to boot! As it faces the challenges of a swiftly changing future, the Society will continue to “promote generally the art of illustration,” as its founders dictated.


--- [Category:Presidents of the Society of Illustrators - Wikipedia] ---
Category:Presidents of the Society of Illustrators Appearance Pages in category "Presidents of the Society of Illustrators" The following 7 pages are in this category, out of 7 total. This list may not reflect recent changes. The following 7 pages are in this category, out of 7 total. This list may not reflect recent changes.


--- [first和firstly以及first of all有什么区别? - 知乎] ---
No content
