=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Washington Post writer Rana Ayyub awarded with McGill ... - Grady]
Mar 3, 2021 · The medal ceremony will take place in the Peyton Anderson Forum at Grady College on Wednesday, April 22 at 3:30 p.m. In a career spanning fourteen years, Ayyub has been awarded the Sanskriti award for integrity and excellence in journalism from the President of India.
URL: https://grady.uga.edu/news/washington-post-writer-rana-ayyub-awarded-with-mcgill-medal-for-journalistic-courage/

[Rana Ayyub]
In February 2020, Ayyub was awarded with McGill Medal for journalistic courage at University of Georgia's Grady College. Ayyub is the 2020 Voices of Courage ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rana_Ayyub

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/

[Indian Journalist Rana Ayyub awarded with McGill Medal for ...]
Feb 25, 2020 · Indian journalist Rana Ayyub was awarded the McGill Medal for Journalistic Courage for the year 2020 on Monday, 24 February.
URL: https://gaurilankeshnews.com/indian-journalist-rana-ayyub-awarded-with-mcgill-medal-for-journalistic-courage/

[Tag Archives: Rana Ayyub]
Oct 11, 2024 — Rana Ayyub gets McGill Medal 2020 for Journalist Courage ... Grady College Of Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Georgia on 22 April ...
URL: https://www.mpositive.in/tag/rana-ayyub/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Washington Post writer Rana Ayyub awarded with McGill ... - Grady] ---
Washington Post writer Rana Ayyub awarded with McGill Medal for journalistic courage Washington Post writer Rana Ayyub awarded with McGill Medal for journalistic courage Rana Ayyub, global opinions writer at the Washington Post, who has reported on religious violence and extrajudicial killings by the state in India, will receive the 2020 McGill Medal for journalistic courage. The medal ceremony will take place in the Peyton Anderson Forum at Grady College on Wednesday, April 22 at 3:30 p.m. In a career spanning fourteen years, Ayyub has been awarded the Sanskriti award for integrity and excellence in journalism from the President of India. She was the recipient of the Global Shining Light award for Investigative journalism in the year 2017 and the Most Resilient Global Journalist of 2018 at the Peace Palace in Hague. Ayyub authored an international bestseller titled “Gujarat Files: Anatomy of a Cover-Up,” an undercover investigation which exposes the complicity of the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in state-sponsored genocide. She has also been named by Time magazine among ten global journalists who face maximum threats to their lives and has been profiled by New Yorker. Ayyub is based in Mumbai, India. Nominations for the medal came from journalists and journalism educators from across the country. The 2019 class of McGill Fellows, 12 students chosen for academic achievement, practical experience and leadership, researched the nominees and made the selection. “Ayyub is committed to telling the stories of people who can’t do it on their own, making her an ideal McGill medal recipient” said Sofia Gratas, the McGill Fellow responsible for researching the nomination. The McGill Medal, now in its twelfth year, is part of the McGill Program for Journalistic Courage at UGA’s Grady College. For more than 40 years, the McGill lecture has brought significant figures in journalism to UGA to help the university honor McGill’s courage as an editor. In 2007, UGA added the McGill Symposium, bringing together students, faculty and leading journalists to consider what journalistic courage means and how reporters and editors exemplify it. The medal was added in 2009. “All of this is for a single purpose: to advance journalistic courage,” said Diane H. Murray, the Grady College’s director of alumni relations and outreach and director of the McGill program. The McGill program is named for Ralph McGill, the late editor and publisher of the Atlanta Constitution. McGill was regarded by many as “the conscience of the South” for his editorials challenging racial segregation in the 1950s and 1960s. For more information on the program, see Grady.uga.edu/mcgill.


--- [Rana Ayyub] ---
Rana Ayyub (born 1 May 1984) is an Indian journalist and opinion columnist with The Washington Post. She is author of the investigative book Gujarat Files: Anatomy of a Cover Up.




--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:


--- [Indian Journalist Rana Ayyub awarded with McGill Medal for ...] ---
Indian journalist Rana Ayyub was awarded the McGill Medal for Journalistic Courage for the year 2020 on Monday, 24 February. Ayyub is presently associated with The Washington Post as Global Opinions Writer and will collect the award at The Grady College Of Journalism and Mass Communication, the University of Georgia on 22 April. Rana Ayub has reported on religious violence and extrajudicial killings by the state in India will receive the 2020 McGill Medal for journalistic courage. “I accept this award on behalf of all journalists who are fighting an unpopular battle to speak the truth,” tweeted Ayyub after winning the award. It is a huge honour for me. I accept this award on behalf of all journalists who are fighting an unpopular battle to speak the truth. Thank you @UGAGrady https://t.co/fAqCiCCS3X — Rana Ayyub (@RanaAyyub) February 24, 2020 In a career spanning fourteen years, Ayyub has been awarded the Sanskriti Award for integrity and excellence in journalism from the President of India. She was the recipient of the Global Shining Light award for Investigative journalism in the year 2017 and the Most Resilient Global Journalist of 2018 at the Peace Palace in Hague. Ayyub authored an international bestseller titled “Gujarat Files: Anatomy of a Cover-Up,” an undercover investigation that exposes the complicity of the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in state-sponsored genocide. She has also been named by Time magazine among ten global journalists who face maximum threats to their lives and has been profiled by New Yorker. Ayyub is based in Mumbai, India. Nominations for the medal came from journalists and journalism educators from across the country. The 2019 class of McGill Fellows, 12 students chosen for academic achievement, practical experience and leadership, researched the nominees and made the selection. “Ayyub is committed to telling the stories of people who can’t do it on her own, making her an ideal McGill medal recipient,” said Sofia Gratas, the McGill Fellow responsible for researching the nomination. The McGill Medal, now in its twelfth year, is part of the McGill Program for Journalistic Courage at UGA’s Grady College. For more than 40 years, the McGill Lecture has brought significant figures in journalism to UGA to help the university honor McGill’s courage as an editor. In 2007, UGA added the McGill Symposium, bringing together students, faculty and leading journalists to consider what journalistic courage means and how reporters and editors exemplify it. The medal was added in 2009. “All of this is for a single purpose: to advance journalistic courage,” said Diane H. Murray, the Grady College’s director of alumni relations and outreach and director of the McGill program. The McGill program is named for Ralph McGill, the late editor, and publisher of the Atlanta Constitution. McGill was regarded by many as “the conscience of the South” for his editorials challenging racial segregation in the 1950s and 1960s.


--- [Tag Archives: Rana Ayyub] ---
Mumbai, MAHARASHTRA / U.S.A : Rana Ayyub, an Indian investigative journalist and Global Opinion Writer at The Washington Post, is the recipient of one of the two coveted 2024 International Press Freedom Awards, as announced by Canadian Journalists for Free Expression (CJFE). She has been named for this award for her reporting that tenaciously upholds press freedom while holding governments accountable. Ayyub will attend the CJFE Gala: A Night to Celebrate Courage in Journalism, where she will accept the award in Toronto on October 23. When Ayyub went undercover in 2010 to look into the government’s role in communal violence – which is defined as violence based on race or religion – she established her reputation for fearless reporting. Since then, she has provided news and investigative reports about the persecution of minorities, state-sanctioned violence, and communal politics for a variety of Indian and international publications, such as The Washington Post, The New York Times, The Guardian, The Atlantic, and Foreign Policy. Her best-selling book, Gujarat Files: Anatomy of a Cover-up was released in 2016. The Modi administration has reacted angrily to Ayyub’s political exposés. Ayyub is one of India’s most harassed and abused reporters, according to the International Centre for Journalists, and the UN special rapporteur has urged Indian government to stop the “relentless misogynistic and sectarian attacks” against her. source: http://www.radiancenews.com / Radiance News / Home> Pride of the Nation> Awards / by Radiance News Bureau / October 04th, 2024
