=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bilge Yildiz was awarded the Faraday Medal for electrochemistry by the ...]
Jun 20, 2024 · Bilge Yildiz was awarded the Faraday Medal for electrochemistry by the Royal Society of Chemistry – Congratulations to all of our present and past group members!
URL: https://yildizgroup.mit.edu/bilge-yildiz-was-awarded-the-faraday-medal-for-electrochemistry-by-the-royal-society-of-chemistry-congratulations-to-all-of-our-present-and-past-group-members/

[Faraday Medal (electrochemistry) - Wikipedia]
The Faraday Medal is awarded by the Electrochemistry Group of the Royal Society of Chemistry. Since 1977, it honours distinguished mid-career [1] electrochemists working outside of the United Kingdom and Ireland for their research advancements.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faraday_Medal_(electrochemistry)

[Faraday Medal - The Royal Society of Chemistry]
About this prize The Faraday Medal is awarded annually by the Electrochemistry Group of the RSC to an electrochemist working outside the UK and Ireland in recognition of outstanding original contributions and innovation in any field of electrochemistry. The award is designed to honour scientists in the middle of their independent scientific careers and, therefore, eligible candidates should be ...
URL: https://www.rsc.org/standards-and-recognition/prizes/interest-group-prizes/faraday-medal

[Battery researcher Martin Winter honored with Faraday Medal]
Royal Society of Chemistry recognizes outstanding achievements in the field of electrochemistry International award for Prof. Dr. Martin Winter: The battery researcher from Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster (WWU) and Forschungszentrum Jülich has been recognized with the Faraday Medal of ...
URL: https://www.uni-muenster.de/MEET/en/presse/faradaymedaille.shtml

[Alessandro Volta]
Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta was an Italian chemist and physicist who was a pioneer of electricity and power, and is credited as the inventor ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alessandro_Volta


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bilge Yildiz was awarded the Faraday Medal for electrochemistry by the ...] ---
Click on ‘Read more’ to check out the post here. Bilge Yildiz was awarded the Faraday Medal for electrochemistry by the Royal Society of Chemistry – Congratulations to all of our present and past group members! / Bilge Yildiz was awarded the Faraday Medal for electrochemistry by the Royal Society of Chemistry – Congratulations to all of our present and past group members! Bilge Yildiz was awarded the Faraday Medal for electrochemistry by the Royal Society of Chemistry – Congratulations to all of our present and past group members! Categories: Uncategorized Recent Posts Recent Posts - January 2026 - December 2025 - November 2025 - October 2025 - April 2025 - July 2024 - June 2024 - May 2024 - November 2023 - June 2023 - May 2023 - February 2023 - August 2022 - July 2022 - May 2022 - March 2022 - December 2021 - November 2021 - October 2021 - June 2021 - April 2021 - February 2021 - August 2020 - July 2020 - June 2020 - May 2020 - January 2020 - December 2019


--- [Faraday Medal (electrochemistry) - Wikipedia] ---
The Faraday Medal is awarded by the Electrochemistry Group of the Royal Society of Chemistry. Since 1977, it honours distinguished mid-career   electrochemists working outside of the United Kingdom and Ireland for their research advancements.




--- [Faraday Medal - The Royal Society of Chemistry] ---
Faraday Medal Recognising outstanding achievements made by a mid-career researcher from outside of the UK and Ireland. Details | Status | Closed | |---|---| | Nominations closing date | 31 January 2026 12:00am | | Nominee location | Global | | Career stage | Mid career | Winners - 2025 Jan Rossmeisl - 2024 Bilge Yildiz - 2023 Yitao Long - 2022 Beatriz Roldán Cuenya - 2021 Peter Strasser - 2020 Shirley Meng - 2019 Martin Winter - 2018 Yang Shao-Horn - 2017 Marc T. M. Koper - 2016 Justin J. Gooding - 2015 Richard M. Crooks - 2014 Masatoshi Osawa - 2013 Nenad M. Markovic - 2012 Zhong-Qun Tian - 2011 Hector D. Abruña - 2009 Reginald M. Penner - 2008 Nathan S. Lewis - 2007 Christian Amatore - 2006 Hubert H. Girault - 2005 R. Mark Wightman - 2004 Daniel Scherson - 2003 Dieter M. Kolb - 2002 Henry S. White - 2001 Michael Grätzel - 2000 Alan M. Bond - 1999 Philippe Allongue - 1998 Wolfgang Vielstich - 1996 Adam Heller - 1995 Michael J. Weaver - 1994 Stanley Bruckenstein - 1991 David A. J. Rand - 1987 Heinz Gerischer - 1985 Michel Armand - 1983 Jean-Michel Savéant - 1981 John O'M. Bockris - 1977 Veniamin G. Levich About this prize The Faraday Medal is awarded annually by the Electrochemistry Group of the RSC to an electrochemist working outside the UK and Ireland in recognition of outstanding original contributions and innovation in any field of electrochemistry. The award is designed to honour scientists in the middle of their independent scientific careers and, therefore, eligible candidates should be within 10 and 25 years of the date of award of their PhD. Allowances will be made for career breaks and non-standard career pathways and candidates' CVs should state clearly if such allowance is sought. The medal itself is made from sterling silver. It is 2 inches in diameter and the front face depicts a bust of Michael Faraday. On the obverse face there is a cyclic voltammogram with the winner's name engraved underneath. The medal was first awarded in 1977 but in the early years it was not awarded every year. The winner of the Faraday medal will be invited to give a plenary lecture (at which they will be presented with their medal) at the annual Electrochem meeting, normally held in the UK or Ireland in September. The winner’s registration fees for Electrochem and a contribution to their travel and accommodation are covered as part of the award. NB: Nominations will close on 31 January 2026 at 17:00 (GMT) - The nominee should be within 10 and 25 years of the date of award of their PhD. Allowances will be made for career breaks and non-standard career pathways and candidates' CVs should state clearly if such allowance is sought - Please note that self-nominations are not permitted - The nominator must be a member of the RSC - Current members of the Electrochemistry Group committee may not act as nominators for this award - Current members of the Electrochemistry Group committee are not eligible for this award. Similarly, anyone who has been a member of the Electrochemistry Group committee during the two years prior to the consideration of the award are also ineligible. We welcome and encourage nominations from all who are eligible, regardless of career route, and particularly from traditionally under-represented groups. Nominations for the Faraday Medal normally open in October/November. Suggestions for nominations are invited from all RSC members via the group Newsletter and other publicising channels. Nominations should be made to the RSC Electrochemistry Group committee Secretary (Professor Petra Cameron, University of Bath). Each nomination should consist only of the following document. No other documentation (including cover letters, an additional list of publications or formal letters of nomination) will be considered by the awards committee. A single pdf file of no more than three A4 pages, which contains: - A CV for the nominated candidate of no more than two A4 pages (single-line spacing, Arial 11pt or equivalent), including the ten most significant research papers in the context of the nomination (plus a brief justification), and a list of previously won awards and medals, if applicable - A statement of not more than one A4 page (single-line spacing, Arial 11pt or equivalent) describing the most significant contributions of the nominee and their originality and novelty, in comparison with the state of the field at the time The committee reserves the right to reject any submissions that do not adhere to the guidelines above. The selection process is carried out by a group of RSC Electrochemistry Group committee members. This group consists of at least five members of the RSC Electrochemistry Group committee (avoiding conflict of interest). Our selection committees base their evaluations on the overall quality of relevant contributions and achievements by nominees, in relation to the selection criteria listed below. The scientific content of any supporting publications, as described in the supporting statement, is much more important than publication metrics or the identity of the journal in which it is published. The selection committee will consider the following aspects of nominations for this prize: - Originality and novelty of research - Significance and impact of research - Contribution to collaborations - Support for the wider electrochemistry community - Other indicators of esteem indicated by the nominator/referee In an instance where multiple nominees are judged equally meritorious in relation to the above criteria, judging panels have the flexibility to use information provided by the nominator on the nominee’s broader contribution to the chemistry community as an additional criterion. Examples of relevant contributions could include, but are not limited to: - Involvement with learned societies - Teaching and mentorship - Service on boards, committees or panels - Leadership in the scientific community - Promotion of diversity and inclusion - Advocacy for chemistry - Public engagement and outreach Awarded by the Electrochemistry Group The group provides a central focus for the development of basic, strategic and applied electrochemistry. It plays a central role in the organisation of the Electrochem Conference series, which has established itself as a central forum for discussion and debate.


--- [Battery researcher Martin Winter honored with Faraday Medal] ---
Battery researcher Martin Winter honored with Faraday Medal International award for Prof. Dr. Martin Winter: The battery researcher from Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster (WWU) and Forschungszentrum Jülich has been recognized with the Faraday Medal of the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC). The organization, which is one of the most important chemistry organizations worldwide, has been awarding the medal annually since 1977 to outstanding individuals in the field of electrochemistry from outside Great Britain and Ireland. "I do consider this award as sign of closeness of the scientists in the UK to their European colleagues.", said Martin Winter during his speech at the international conference "Electrochem2019" in Glasgow (Scotland). As a medal winner, he was invited to introduce the conference with a one-hour introductory lecture, which also drew non-battery experts under the spell of battery research. Afterwards, the medal was awarded by the Chair of the RSC Electrochemistry, Prof. Upul Wijayantha from the Loughborough University, who recognized the internationally acclaimed accomplishments of Winter in the field of battery research. Read more on the Faraday Medal here.


--- [Alessandro Volta] ---
Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta (UK: , US: ; Italian: [alesˈsandro dʒuˈzɛppe anˈtɔnjo anasˈtaːzjo ˈvɔlta]; 18 February 1745 – 5 March 1827) was an Italian chemist and physicist who was a pioneer of electricity and power, and is credited as the inventor of the electric battery and the discoverer of methane. He invented the voltaic pile in 1799, and reported the results of his experiments in a two-part letter to the president of the Royal Society, which was published in 1800. With this invention, Volta proved that electricity could be generated chemically and debunked the prevalent theory that electricity was generated solely by living beings. Volta's invention sparked a great amount of scientific excitement and led others to conduct similar experiments, which eventually led to the development of the field of electrochemistry.
Volta drew admiration from Napoleon Bonaparte for his invention, and was invited to the Institute of France to demonstrate his invention to the members of the institute. Throughout his life, Volta enjoyed a certain amount of closeness with the emperor who conferred upon him numerous honours. Volta held the chair of experimental physics at the University of Pavia for nearly 40 years and was widely idolised by his students. Despite his professional success, Volta was inclined towards domestic life and this was more apparent in his later years when he tended to live secluded from public life and more for the sake of his family. He died in 1827 from a series of illnesses which began in 1823. The SI unit of electric potential is named the volt in his honour.


