=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Neptune and Triton - Wikipedia]
Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622-1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm (71.7 in) in height. [1][2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neptune_and_Triton

[Neptune and Triton by Gian Lorenzo Bernini - V&A]
Neptune and Triton was carved in just under a year, at a time when Bernini was about 25 years old. In terms of production, the group falls between two equally impressive two-figure sculptures, The Rape of Persephone and Apollo and Daphne (both housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome), and helps mark the artist's arrival at full maturity as a sculptor. After the death of Alessandro Peretti in ...
URL: https://www.vam.ac.uk/articles/neptune-and-triton-by-gian-lorenzo-bernini

[Neptune and Triton by Gian Lorenzo Bernini - The History of Art]
Neptune and Triton, a sculpture by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, is housed in the largest museum of decoratives called the Victoria and Albert Museum (Vamp;A) located in London. It was executed c. 1622 to 1623 and was carved from marble. The sculpture is 182.2 cm in height. In the sculpture, Triton is positioned below the legs of Neptune, and he thrusts himself forward so he can blow the conch shell ...
URL: https://www.thehistoryofart.org/gian-lorenzo-bernini/neptune-and-triton/

[Neptune and Triton – Statue Decor]
Neptune and Triton is one of the first sculptures by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Created between 1622 and 1623, it is on display at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. Carved in marble, the work measures 182.2 cm in height. History of Neptune and Triton The marble sculpture was originally commissioned by Cardinal Alessandro Damascenti Peretti in 1620, and was executed ...
URL: https://statue-decor.com/blogs/statues/neptune-and-triton

[Neptune and Triton explained]
Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622-1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm (71.7 in) in height. [1] [2] History The marble sculpture group was originally commissioned by Cardinal Alessandro Damascenti-Peretti Montalto in 1620, and executed March 1622 to ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Neptune_and_Triton_(Bernini)/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Neptune and Triton - Wikipedia] ---
Neptune and Triton is an early sculpture by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It is housed in the Victoria and Albert Museum of London and was executed c. 1622–1623. Carved from marble, it stands 182.2 cm (71.7 in) in height.


--- [Neptune and Triton by Gian Lorenzo Bernini - V&A] ---
Bernini's sculpture, which received widespread critical acclaim, depicts the mythological ruler of the seas, Neptune, and his merman son, Triton, both at human life size. The group's dynamic composition may have been inspired by Ovid's account of the Flood in the epic poem Metamorphoses, in which Jupiter vowed in anger to destroy life on Earth, and called Neptune to create a flood; Neptune struck the Earth with his trident and released a deluge. When the destruction was complete, Neptune laid down his trident and called Triton to blow on his conch shell as a signal for the waters to subside. Neptune and Triton – the only one of the artist's large-scale works to be held outside Italy – is characteristic of the Baroque, a style of art that emerged in Rome in the 17th century, and which had by 1700 spread throughout Italy and most of western Europe. Bernini is often credited as one of the founders of this extravagant new aesthetic. In sculptural terms Baroque is characterised by a focus on dynamic figurative groups that are designed to be viewed in the round and in open space. It seems clear that Bernini designed Neptune and Triton with long-range, open viewpoints in mind. For his father-and-son figures he created a bold overall design that could be appreciated at a distance, while also exploiting the bright Italian sunshine of the sculpture garden's location – creating dramatic contrasts of dark and light, with deep and vigorously carved detail. Neptune and Triton was carved in just under a year, at a time when Bernini was about 25 years old. In terms of production, the group falls between two equally impressive two-figure sculptures, The Rape of Persephone and Apollo and Daphne (both housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome), and helps mark the artist's arrival at full maturity as a sculptor. After the death of Alessandro Peretti in 1623, Bernini's career continued to develop under the patronage of another influential friend, Cardinal Maffeo Barberini, who became Pope Urban VIII in the same year. A prominent patron of the arts, the new Pope encouraged Bernini to study painting and architecture, and appointed him in charge of additions to St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. Bernini created a series of powerful pieces for the church, including a monumental canopy cast in bronze, and a window-based piece housing a relic of St. Peter's throne. These important commissions helped cement the reputation of Bernini as the foremost sculptor of his day. Neptune and Triton remained at the Villa Montalto until 1786 when it was sold to the British art dealer Thomas Jenkins. The group was later purchased by the painter Sir Joshua Reynolds, and subsequently had two more homes – in Chelsea in London, then in Lincolnshire – before being acquired by the V&A in 1950 with the assistance of the National Art Fund.


--- [Neptune and Triton by Gian Lorenzo Bernini - The History of Art] ---
Neptune and Triton, a sculpture by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, is housed in the largest museum of decoratives called the Victoria and Albert Museum (Vamp;A) located in London. It was executed c. 1622 to 1623 and was carved from marble. The sculpture is 182.2 cm in height. In the sculpture, Triton is positioned below the legs of Neptune, and he thrusts himself forward so he can blow the conch shell. He's young, maybe a teenager, with defined musculature. Triton blows his shell, announcing the king of oceans and earth is approaching. Neptune looks like a 30-year-old man, with wavy locks and beard. His legs are spread apart, and he’s balancing on a big seashell carrying both himself and his son. There is large sheet covering Neptune’s right shoulder, and it’s also gliding in between his strong legs, which reveals parts of the male structure. The sculpture references the mythological characters of Poseidon (or Neptune) and Triton (his son), protectors of seafarers. Triton and Neptune are deities appearing briefly in classical literature. They are, however, deemed significant as the controllers of the seas and earth. It's a common modern misunderstanding to attribute Neptune to the seas only. However, in the Greek myth, he’s the ruler of earth plus everything it possesses, just like Hades is the known to be the Underworld ruler and Zeus is known to be the ruler of heavens. Actually, Triton is the character who is attributed to the ruler of the seas only. Neptune and Triton are usually portrayed in water-like setting, and they hold tridents and often driving chariots with horses that shoot out from the water. This sculpture by Bernini gives a somewhat different depiction of the duo. In Bernini's sculpture, the story depicted was that Neptune is saving the Aenean fleet from fierce seas. Bernini decided to re-interpret the myth and focused on Neptune and Triton responses more than the real story itself. In the actual myth, Neptune is known to come from underneath the seas and splits ships with his trident. The sculptor flipped the scene appearance, with Neptune seen pointing his trident downwards, and he does not make any reference to Aenean fleet, hence giving the impression that Neptune was ruling the sea from above. Neptune and Triton was originally commissioned by Peretti Montalto, and it served as a fountain for decorating the pond located in the garden of Peretti Montalto (his villa) on the Esquiline Hill, Rome. It was bought by an Englishman called Thomas Jenkins, from whom it was bought later the same year by Joshua Reynolds (a painter). After the death of Reynolds in 1762, Charles Pelham purchased the sculpture and kept it in his home garden in Chelsea, Walpole House. In 1906, his descendants moved it to Brocklesby Park, Lincolnshire (their country house). In 1950, V&A purchased it from the family, although it had appeared at the Royal Academy at an exhibition in 1938. Bernini gave the viewers the opportunity of seeing the gods in the sculpture in person and in movement. Neptune and Triton sculpture was the first that he worked on where the silhouette was broken, the transitory action climax is given plus where the action is extending beyond the physical limits. Typically, the point of this sculpture is bringing the audience to face a story or myth to be real and true by its amazing dramatic tension seen in the body positions plus subtle hints at a normal, natural life. Bernini was making the stories, rumours and myths a chance to be real and demand observers to really believe in its truth.


--- [Neptune and Triton – Statue Decor] ---
No content


--- [Neptune and Triton explained] ---
No content
