=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Meet the Mudi: AKC's Newly-Recognized Dog Breed in 2022]
May 13, 2022 · The Mudi is one of two newly-recognized American Kennel Club dog breeds gaining full recognition in the herding group in 2022.
URL: https://www.akc.org/expert-advice/dog-breeds/mudi-becomes-newest-akc-recognized-dog-breed-in-2022/

[Mudi - Wikipedia]
The breed became recognized by The Federation Cynologique Internationale in 1966. On January 5, 2022, the Mudi was recognized by the American Kennel Club as a purebred breed, and by The Kennel Club on June 12, 2025, effective July 1. [1][2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mudi

[Meet the new dog breeds officially recognized by the American Kennel Club]
Jan 4, 2022 · 2022 is off to a great start for dog lovers, thanks to the addition of two new dog breeds – the Russian Toy and the Mudi – by the American Kennel Club.
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2022/01/04/us/american-kennel-club-new-breeds-russian-toy-mudi-cec

[All about Mudi breed - Animalia]
The breed became recognized by the Federation Cynologique Internationale in 1966. On January 5, 2022, the Mudi was recognized by the American Kennel Club as a purebred breed, and by The Kennel Club on June 12, 2025, effective July 1.
URL: https://animalia.bio/pets/mudi

[New dog breeds recognized by American Kennel Club: Russian Toy, Mudi]
Jan 5, 2022 · The American Kennel Club, the world's largest purebred dog registry, recognizes new dog breeds every year, with dogs needing to be in an established breed club.
URL: https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2022/01/05/new-dog-breeds-russian-toy-mudi/9101492002/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Meet the Mudi: AKC's Newly-Recognized Dog Breed in 2022] ---
The Mudi (pronounced “MOO-dee”), one of two newly-recognized American Kennel Club breeds gaining full recognition January 1, brings a little bit of everything to the table. But make no mistake about it, this herding breed with Hungarian origin comes with a few caveats. “If not mentally and physically challenged, the Mudi can be barky and demanding,” says Susanne Bergesen, of Tracy, California. Bergesen, Mudi Club of America corresponding secretary, adds, “This is not the breed for a first-time dog owner. While some may call the breed stubborn, I see it as getting bored if constantly drilled. They are thinkers, love to learn, learn quickly, and do not need lots of repetitions to acquire most skills.” What Type of Dog is That? The Mudi’s pathway to full recognition didn’t come overnight. In fact, it is still a rare breed with only an estimated 450 in the United States and 3,000-4,000 worldwide. It was first recorded in the Foundation Stock Service in 2004 and has been eligible to vie in AKC companion events since 2008. Sometimes mistaken for a mixed-breed dog by the public, one fancier compared the breed to a cross between a Miniature Poodle and a German Shepherd Dog both in look and temperament. Yet another noted it gives the impression of a curly-coated small Spitz. From a familiarity standpoint, the Mudi takes a back seat to its two other Hungarian farm brethren, the Puli and Pumi, all of which faced near extinction following World War II. What you see in puppyhood isn’t what you get later. Mudi are born with floppy ears, which will gradually become pricked. Sometimes Mudis are born without a tail or with a natural stump tail that is not regarded as a fault. Connecting with a Mudi is like working a crossword puzzle. It can come from many directions. For Cynthia Protheroe, who saw her first Mudi in 2003 at an agility trial in Spokane, Washington, it was a Pumi breeder (yes, that’s right!) who helped her contact a Mudi group and she imported her first dog from Sweden in the fall 2004. And since then, it’s been quite the ride. From puzzled “What type of dog is that?” questions and her response, “A Mudi,” onlookers are still left shaking their heads. “Other than the unique curly/wavy coat and/or the merle-colored dogs, the Mudi is common looking and frequently identified as a mixed breed,” says Protheroe. Life With a Mudi This breed boasts lots of sizzle, from the farm to the front room. Colorfully fluid and versatile, it competes in AKC sports such as conformation, agility, rally, tracking, herding, flyball, Frisbee, lure coursing, and barn hunt. Protheroe smiles, “My Mudis’ favorite things are doing anything with me!” Living on five fenced acres, her Mudis are on vermin control – and pursuit – constantly. “Their prey drive keeps the ground turned over as they dig following vermin tunnels,” she says. When it comes to giant transition, Mary Mytych has seen it all. In 2008 she was showing and breeding Smooth Coat Chihuahuas and discovered a Mudi while reading a book, Legacy of the Dog. “There was a single page with a photo and description of a herding breed, a handy size and easy-care coat.” Later that day, she contacted the Mudi Club of America secretary and asked numerous questions about the breed. Her first Mudi puppy, a yellow male named Beacon, arrived at the Sacramento airport from Chicago 10 days later. Two years later she traveled to Hungary to purchase a second. Her next 180-degree turnabout came recently when she and her husband, Joe, moved from warm-weather Lodi, California, where the dogs sometimes trialed in 100 degrees, to St. Ignatius, Montana, on a 60 acre-ranch with plenty of sub-freezing days. The dogs have adapted well, Mytych adds. “They love getting into the creek on our daily walks. “Sports that involve using their noses seem to be the universal favorite among all of my dogs,” she says. “Whether it’s tracking, scent work or hunting for rats, my Mudis enjoy leading the way. In Montana, shed hunting is a big deal. My youngest Mudi, 4-months-old Triton, an import this year from Poland, surprised us by bringing an antler out of our hayfield. Since then we have acquired quite a collection of deer bones, thanks to Triton.” Intrigued by the Breed? Asked to list a few adjectives or descriptive phrases that capture this breed, the three cited whip-smart, fast learner, protective, funny, dependable, devoted, quirky, and driven. A bored Mudi is not a happy Mudi. And yes, it can be barky, having been bred for many generations to sound off while moving livestock and alerting shepherds to intruders or danger. “Being constantly on the alert, an unattended bored Mudi will bark nonstop,” adds Protheroe. Still intrigued? The Mudi Club of America website has an excellent assortment of information, including breed history and frequently asked questions. The Q&A section notes “the average Mudi is neither shy and fearful nor exuberant and overjoyed when meeting new people … Still, he is first and foremost a herding dog, and as with most herding breeds he can display a certain aloofness during initial meetings. Once he knows and trusts a person, however, he is generally easy-going, playful, and affectionate. The Mudi does well with children and other animals when exposed to them from puppyhood.” While this outdoors-loving breed is a natural herder, it is well-suited to the house but should not be relegated to living the backyard or you will have a barker on your hands. Boasting a wash-and-wear coat, it is easy maintenance and a light-to-average shedder. Black is the predominant color but numerous others are allowable. According to the AKC standard males range from 16-18½ inches tall and weigh 24-29 pounds; females, 15-17 ½ inches tall, 18-24 pounds. Because of the breed’s rarity, there are fewer than a dozen reputable breeders in the United States. Prices could range from $1,500 for pet quality to $2,500 for a show equivalent. The Future of the Mudi As with any new breed and increased media attention, parent club members are concerned about its quality moving forward. Protheroe explains, “Breeding for good temperament is necessary, otherwise it quickly reverts to a breed unsuitable for living off the farm. The reality is that most U.S. Mudis do not reside on working farms. “There are concerns among our breed’s fanciers about the Mudi being used for ‘designer dogs’ by opportunistic breeders who are now whelping mixed-breed litters.” Mytych adds, “Those who are newer to the breed don’t seem to care about the historic purpose and character of the Mudi. I have seen newcomers talk about changing the temperament of the Mudi to be ‘more appealing to and compatible with the modern U.S. family.’ I tell potential puppy buyers that adding a Mudi to the family is much more like adding another family member than adding a pet.”


--- [Mudi - Wikipedia] ---
The Mudi is a herding dog breed from Hungary. It is closely related to the Puli and Pumi, from which it was separated in the 1930s. They continue to be used in herding, as well as participating in a variety of dog sports.


--- [Meet the new dog breeds officially recognized by the American Kennel Club] ---
The new year is off to a great start for dog lovers, thanks to the addition of two new dog breeds by the American Kennel Club. The AKC, the world’s largest purebred dog registry, announced Tuesday that the Russian Toy and Mudi are joining the list of its recognized breeds. “We’re thrilled to have two unique breeds join the registry,” said Gina DiNardo, executive secretary of the AKC, in a statement. Not to be confused with an actual toy, the Russian Toy is a tiny, active and cheerful dog with roots in Russian aristocracy, the AKC said. The dogs love people and just want to make those around them happy. Fittingly, the Russian Toy will be a member of the Toy Group, AKC said, and there are only about 775 in the US. The Mudi, on the other hand, will be a member of the herding group, which includes breeds like the German Shepherd or the Collie. The Mudi is originally from Hungary, where the breed was used on farms, the AKC said. The dogs tend to be loyal, energetic and affectionate – and perfect for any runners in the family. “This is not the breed for a first-time dog owner. While some may call the breed stubborn, I see it as getting bored if constantly drilled,” said Susanne Bergesen, corresponding secretary of the Mudi Club of America, in a statement. “They are thinkers, love to learn, learn quickly, and do not need lots of repetitions to acquire most skills.” The breed is still rather rare, though – according to the AKC, there are only about 450 of the dogs in the US, and up to about 4,000 worldwide. Every year, the AKC recognizes new dog breeds. In 2020, the Dogo Argentino and the Barbet joined the registry. For a breed to be recognized by the group, there must be a minimum of 300 to 400 dogs from the breed in at least 20 states, the AKC writes. There must also be an established breed club behind the dog. The dog breed can then be eligible to compete in the Miscellaneous Class, where dogs typically spend upwards of three years. From there, the breed can get recognized officially, which means it’s eligible to participate in AKC events and affiliated clubs.


--- [All about Mudi breed - Animalia] ---
The Mudi is a medium-sized dog with oval-shaped, dark brown eyes. It has erect, pointed, in the shape of inverted V ears. Mudis are born with various lengths of tails, from bobtails to long, full-length tails. Dogs born with a short or natural bobtail will be indicated on the FCI pedigree. The coat of the breed is medium in length and curly. Colors include black, white, yellow (phaco), merle (marble), brown, and ash. A winter nose is permitted in light-colored dogs. A white spot on the chest is permitted, but is undesirable. Animalia.Pets Animalia.Pets Description Appearance Gallery Origin Temperament Mudi The Mudi is a dog breed originating in Hungary. It is used as a herding dog and participates in a variety of dog sports. This breed is closely related to the Puli and Pumi, from which it was separated in the 1930s. FCI group: FCI section: Male Female Withers height 41-47 16.1-18.5 cminch cm inch Withers height 38-44 15-17.3 cminch cm inch weight 11-13 24.2-28.6 kglbs kg lbs weight 8-11 17.6-24.2 kglbs kg lbs life span 12-14 years Appearance Coat type Eye colour Fur colour Body Type Ears Eyes shape Fur length Fur type Head shape Tail Gallery View 11 more photos Gallery View 11 more photos Origin The Mudi is a very ancient breed. Its prototype dates back to the Middle Ages, when Mudi-like dogs herded flocks. It was a very stable breed type, officially discovered in the 19th century. After World War II, the breed virtually disappeared and was revived. The breed became recognized by the Federation Cynologique Internationale in 1966. On January 5, 2022, the Mudi was recognized by the American Kennel Club as a purebred breed, and by The Kennel Club on June 12, 2025, effective July 1. Temperament Mudis are hardy and sturdy dogs that have an inexhaustible supply of energy. They have a rather complex personality, are not very trainable, and are not suitable as a first dog. They should not be kept as lap dogs as they need to move a lot. They need to be taken on daily, long, brisk walks or jogs. In addition, they will benefit from a large safe area where they can run free. They need a lot of running and other exercises to be in good condition. In the city, ideal activities for a Mudi include flyball, Frisbee, agility, and obedience. Behavior: Loyal to owner Activity Level: Very active Keeping conditions Diet preferences Grooming Mudis are highly energetic dogs and need a well-balanced and high-quality dog food that includes the necessary set of minerals and microelements. It can be dry dog food, canned, or home-prepared after consulting with your veterinarian. It is also very important to provide your dog constant access to clean and fresh water. The coat of Mudis doesn't require much grooming. It doesn't mat and doesn't require frequent washing or brushing. It is enough to comb the coat weekly to remove dead hair and keep it in good condition. Don't forget to wipe the dog's eyes, clean its ears when needed, provide regular dental care, and trim the nails when they grow too long. Shedding: Infrequent Grooming intencity: Easy to groom References - Mudi Wikipedia article https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mudi See in Lists


--- [New dog breeds recognized by American Kennel Club: Russian Toy, Mudi] ---
Two new dog breeds officially recognized by the American Kennel Club The American Kennel Club has announced the addition of two new dog breeds. The Russian Toy, a tiny and cheerful dog with Russian aristocracy, and the Mudi, originally from Hungary and used on farms, have now joined the list of recognized breeds. "We're thrilled to have two unique breeds join the registry," Gina DiNardo, executive secretary of the AKC, said in a statement Tuesday, The Russian Toy will become a member of the Toy Group, which includes 775 dog breeds. The Mudi, a rare breed with only 450 in the U.S., will become a member of the herding group, which includes breeds like the German shepherd or collie. "This is not the breed (Mudi) for a first-time dog owner. While some may call the breed stubborn, I see it as getting bored if constantly drilled," Susanne Bergesen, corresponding secretary of the Mudi Club of America, said in a statement. "They are thinkers, love to learn, learn quickly, and do not need lots of repetitions to acquire most skills." The American Kennel Club, the world's largest purebred dog registry, recognizes new dog breeds every year, with dogs needing to be in an established breed club. Last year, the Dogo Argentino and the Barbet joined the registry. All the registered breeds can compete in events and clubs hosted by the American Kennel Club.
