=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Makena (elephant) - Wikipedia]
Makena (born November 9, 2022) is an African elephant born at Bioparc Valencia in Valencia, Spain. It is the first elephant born in the Valencian Community. [1] The elephant was born on day 653 of pregnancy, after 211⁄2 months of gestation; the mother, Matla, had been inseminated in January 2021 by a team of German technicians with semen from a wild male. [2] This operation was carried out ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Makena_(elephant)

[BIOPARC Valencia's baby elephant will be called Makena]
As it is the first elephant born in the Valencian Community, BIOPARC Valencia wanted to share and involve society in such a relevant decision and on the park's website they opened a vote to choose between the three names proposed by the technical team.
URL: https://bioparcvalencia.es/en/the-baby-elephant-will-be-called-makena/

[The BIOPARC Valencia Elephant Calf Is Named Makena By Popular Decision]
As it is the first elephant born in the Valencian Community, BIOPARC Valencia has wanted to share and involve society in such an important decision and a vote was opened on the park's website to choose between the three names proposed by the technical team.
URL: https://www.zooborns.com/2022/12/13/the-bioparc-valencia-elephant-calf-is-named-makena-by-popular-decision/

[Birthday celebrations for first elephant born in Spain's Valencia ...]
Nov 9, 2023 · MAKENA, the first elephant born in the Valencian Community, celebrated her first birthday at BIOPARC Valencia on Thursday, as hundreds of schoolchildren sang to her at a special party.
URL: https://www.theolivepress.es/spain-news/2023/11/09/birthday-celebrations-for-first-elephant-born-in-spains-valencia-region/

[Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate]
On the Subject tab in the Certificate Properties, enter a suitable Common name for the Subject, if required In the Alternative names section, select Type: DNS and add the FQDNs for the desired SANs. Options for key usage and so on should be preconfigured on the other tabs.
URL: https://serverfault.com/questions/476413/subject-alternative-name-not-added-to-certificate


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Makena (elephant) - Wikipedia] ---
Makena (born November 9, 2022) is an African elephant born at Bioparc Valencia in Valencia, Spain. It is the first elephant born in the Valencian Community.
The elephant was born on day 653 of pregnancy, after 21+1⁄2 months of gestation; the mother, Matla, had been inseminated in January 2021 by a team of German technicians with semen from a wild male. This operation was carried out as part of the European Program for the Conservation of the African Elephant, after the previous year the International Union for Conservation of Nature listed this species as endangered. On November 9, 2022, between 1:00 and 1:30 Matla started having contractions and at 4:20 she gave birth. The birth occurred naturally without complications and with great anticipation from the zoo team.
On the 28th of the same month, a vote was opened to choose her name, the winning option was Makena, which means "the one who is happy" in the Kikuyu language.


--- [BIOPARC Valencia's baby elephant will be called Makena] ---
No content


--- [The BIOPARC Valencia Elephant Calf Is Named Makena By Popular Decision] ---
Subscribe to Bioparc Valencia’s Youtube Channel for more updates and countless outstanding videos! Valencia, December 13, 2022.- On December 9, the little elephant who was born on a full moon night as a result of the important European Program for the Conservation of the African elephant (EEP), was 1 month old. A hopeful birth for this imposing species that is "in danger of extinction" according to the Red List of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Once it was confirmed that she was a female, it was time to name her and the tradition of animal parks marks this privilege for the first person to see the calf. As it is the first elephant born in the Valencian Community, BIOPARC Valencia has wanted to share and involve society in such an important decision and a vote was opened on the park's website to choose between the three names proposed by the technical team. We want to thank the great reception because, after 6,000 participations, the result with 75% has been resounding and the "little elephant" will be called Makena, which means the one who is happy in the Kikuyu language of an ethnic group from Kenya; Mandisa, a traditional sweet highly appreciated in South Africa and Egypt, has been in second place with 18%; followed with 7% by Meru, the name of a National Park in Kenya. Makena's integration process in the herd is proving to be very satisfactory, as is the behavior of the mother and the "aunts" who do not cease in their protection and pampering in equal parts and who constantly follow the little girl for her running around and great exercise. Discovering the infinite movements of its trunk is quite an experience and exploring the outdoor enclosures is a daily adventure in which it overcomes the different elements and stimuli prepared by the group of animal care professionals who ensure its well-being. Many people have already been able to contemplate these moments of nature, unique images that move and are an opportunity to awaken love and respect for animals and a deep commitment to the conservation of our planet's biodiversity. In the line of performances of BIOPARC as leisure "with a cause" we want to commemorate this milestone and celebrate Christmas with a double promotion for children aged 4 to 12, since children under that age have free admission. Until January 8, families can choose between the children's ticket at €1 or the annual children's pass, also at €1. As always, every €1 will go to nature conservation through the BIOPARC Foundation. To benefit from this special double action, the conditions are as follows: with respect to the 1-day ticket, you must buy it on the park's website at least the day before the visit, it is conditioned to the purchase of a General ticket (also with the General discount, +65 or Reduced discount modalities) and is limited to 2 children's tickets per operation. And for those who want to take advantage and see the elephant calf grow with the Annual Pass B! Children, you can buy it online or at the park ticket offices, it is necessary to buy one of the modalities of the General Annual Pass or +65 and it is restricted to 3 B passes! child by operation.


--- [Birthday celebrations for first elephant born in Spain's Valencia ...] ---
MAKENA, the first elephant born in the Valencian Community, celebrated her first birthday at BIOPARC Valencia on Thursday, as hundreds of schoolchildren sang to her at a special party. A huge cake with a difference was baked along with special decorations for the elephant enclosure at the wildlife park. A large mound of sand with several layers formed the cake containing favourite elephant treats like watermelon, melon, pineapple, tomatoes, celery, lettuce, and pumpkins. That was in addition to gift boxes filled with food, branches, forage and various elements to motivate Makena’s instincts. The park described the day as ‘exciting’ as the early morning of November 9, 2022 – when she was born – after a long wait following 22 months of gestation. BIOPARC has used Thursday’s celebration to remind people that the extinction threat to the African elephant is ‘increasingly worrying’. In just over a century more than 95% of the population has disappeared, which has led the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) to classify the forest elephant (Loxodonta cyclotis) as ‘critically endangered’. Part of BIOPARC’s work is aimed at the ‘active conservation’ of the most threatened species, both with ‘on site’ conservation projects as well participating in international controlled reproduction programmes. Equally important is to ‘engage and mobilise’ society to ‘reconnect’ with nature and awaken empathy towards wildlife, the park says, which is why occasions like Makena’s first birthday is important to highlight the problems around the world. READ MORE: - IN PICS: Cute twin baby porcupines belonging to world’s largest species get round-the-clock care at Bioparc Valencia in Spain - Spain’s Bioparc Valencia welcomes its new attraction- a pair of warthogs - Bioparc Valencia helps to reproduce one of the most threatened amphibians in Spain Click here to read more Valencia News from The Olive Press.


--- [Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate] ---
# Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate

I'm trying to issue a new certificate using the additional attribues field within the  Windows CertSrv Web-Enrollment Client.

I added the CSR, picked the template and entered this into the attributes field:

SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME.DOMAIN.COM&ipaddress=IPADRESS


The request is successful but when I check the signed certificate no "Alternative Names" attribute is added to it. Am I missing something? Maybe a issue with the Template? (used a default Win 2003 level webserver template copy with some custom settings).

/edit
Also I've tried to use 

certreq -submit -attrib "CertificateTemplate:MYTEMPLATE" <Cert Request.req> -attrib "SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME2&ipaddress=IPADDRESS"


resulting in the same problem: cert gets generated, but without any SAN attribute.

/edit2 
also I've set the CA to issue SAN certificates using

certutil -setreg policy\EditFlags +EDITF_ATTRIBUTESUBJECTALTNAME2


and restarting the CA service. Still: no SANs.

Please note: using req. files and OpenSSL to generate the CSR i'm able to generate certifcates using the CA which have some SANs included. However this option is not valid in my current situation since I'm getting the CSR from an application and i'm not able to manually generate one for the application.

/edit3
I tried using the default webserver certificate WITHOUT any changes and suddenly it worked. So now the question is: what are the template requirements to enable SAN?

