=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Countdown (game show) - Wikipedia]
On 25 July 2022, it was announced that Les Dennis would guest host the show from 4 to 15 August followed by Jenny Eclair from 16 to 19 August after Murray tested positive for COVID-19.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Countdown_(game_show)

[Countdown viewers react as Les Dennis makes unexpected ...]
Aug 5, 2022 · Les will continue to front the show until August 15th. He was joined yesterday (August 4th) by maths whizz Rachel Riley, Dictionary Corner queen Susie Dent, and his former Coronation Street colleague Daniel Brocklebank.
URL: https://virginradio.co.uk/entertainment/71121/countdown-viewers-react-as-les-dennis-makes-unexpected-hosting-debut

[Les Dennis confirmed to guest host Countdown]
Jul 26, 2022 · Of course, Les is no stranger to TV gameshows, the 68-year-old hosted Family Fortunes between 1987 and 2002, gaining huge praise at the time. It's understood Les will host the show as a guest presenter, due to stand-in host Colin Murray having COVID-19 at the time of filming.
URL: https://www.hellorayo.co.uk/hits-radio/entertainment/television/les-dennis-countdown

[Les Dennis to guest host Countdown after Anne Robinson's exit]
Jul 25, 2022 · Les Dennis has announced that he will guest host Countdown in early August, after Anne Robinson's final episode aired earlier this month. Colin Murray has temporarily replaced...
URL: https://www.radiotimes.com/tv/entertainment/countdown-les-dennis-guest-host-newsupdate/

[Countdown switch up due to Covid sees Les Dennis make his ...]
Aug 4, 2022 · The latest episode of the Channel 4 game show saw Les, 68, in the host seat - with him temporarily taking over from Colin Murray, 45, for several episodes due to air this month.
URL: https://www.mirror.co.uk/tv/tv-news/countdown-switch-up-due-covid-27661095


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Countdown (game show) - Wikipedia] ---
Countdown is a British game show involving word and mathematical tasks that began airing in November 1982. It is broadcast on Channel 4 and is most recently presented by Colin Murray, assisted by Rachel Riley with lexicographer Susie Dent. It was the first programme to be broadcast on Channel 4 and 92 series have been broadcast since its debut on 2 November 1982. With more than 8,000 episodes, Countdown is one of Britain's longest-running game shows; the original French version, Des chiffres et des lettres (Numbers & Letters), ran on French television almost continuously from 1965 until 2024. 
The two contestants in each episode compete in three game types: ten letters rounds, in which they attempt to make the longest word possible from nine randomly chosen letters; four numbers rounds, in which they must use arithmetic to reach a random target figure from six other numbers; and the conundrum, a buzzer round in which the contestants compete to solve a nine-letter anagram. During the series heats, the winning contestant returns the next day until they either lose or retire with eight wins as an undefeated "Octochamp". The best eight contestants are invited back for the series finals, which are decided in knockout format. Contestants of exceptional skill have received national media coverage and the programme, as a whole, is widely recognised and parodied within British culture.
Countdown was produced by Yorkshire Television and was recorded at The Leeds Studios for 27 years, before moving to the Manchester-based Granada Studios in 2009. Following the development of MediaCityUK, Countdown moved again in 2013 to the new purpose-built studios at Dock10 in Greater Manchester.




--- [Countdown viewers react as Les Dennis makes unexpected ...] ---
The Huey Show Countdown viewers react as Les Dennis makes unexpected hosting debut Virgin Radio 5 Aug 2022, 08:02 Credit: Getty / Channel 4 Les Dennis thought he was going to be appearing in Dictionary Corner, but ended up presenting Countdown after host Colin Murray came down with Covid. When host Anne Robinson quit her role on the long-running Channel 4 game show after a year in the host’s chair, radio presenter Murray was brought in to replace her on a temporary basis, but after he tested positive, Family Fortunes legend Les found himself shifting over from Dictionary Corner and into the hot seat. Les will continue to front the show until August 15th. He was joined yesterday (August 4th) by maths whizz Rachel Riley, Dictionary Corner queen Susie Dent, and his former Coronation Street colleague Daniel Brocklebank. The presenter, actor, and comedian took to Twitter to announce his debut as Countdown host, saying: “So here it is. My first day sitting in for Colin Murray on @C4Countdown. Hope you enjoy.” It is safe to say viewers were impressed with the presenter's debut helming the words and numbers contest, with many people taking to Twitter to praise on the host. One person wrote: “Les Dennis just came out of nowhere as a strong contender for permanent Countdown host. Turns up to the studio to do Dictionary Corner, is thrust into the presenter's chair at short notice, and it's like he's been hosting the show for years.” Another added: “Les you were just perfect! 100% the man for the job.” Elsewhere, a viewer said: "Really enjoyed @LesDennis hosting Countdown today. He's just so likeable in everything he does.” Several people suggested he should be given the job on a full-time basis, with one person writing: “Les I thought you were brilliant, exactly what the show needs from a host. Give him the gig guys, you know it makes sense!” Referencing Family Fortunes, another person joked: “Les Dennis hosting #countdown for the next few days - if it's up there he'll give you the money himself.” Countdown airs weekdays from 2.10pm on Channel 4 and All 4. Advertisement Latest Articles Advertisement


--- [Les Dennis confirmed to guest host Countdown] ---
Les Dennis confirmed to guest host Countdown Anne Robinson quit the show earlier this year After weeks of rumours as to who will be the new host of popular Channel 4 show Countdown, following Anne Robinson's shock exit, former Coronation Street star Les Dennis has some exciting news! Les, who played the infamous role of Michael Rodwell in ITV soap Corrie, took to Twitter to announce he will be guest hosting the show in August, writing: 'From 4th August until 15th I shall be hosting the iconic @C4Countdown 'It is such an honour. Hope you enjoy.' (sic) Fans were unsurprisingly thrilled to hear the news, with many replying admitting they are happy to see Les back on TV. One wrote: 'Welcome back to the box mate', with another adding: 'Good luck Les, you’ll smash it! 👊🏼'. Another added: 'Congratulations Les, you are a great fit for Countdown. Always good to see you on the box'. (sic) Of course, Les is no stranger to TV gameshows, the 68-year-old hosted Family Fortunes between 1987 and 2002, gaining huge praise at the time. It's understood Les will host the show as a guest presenter, due to stand-in host Colin Murray having COVID-19 at the time of filming. Colin is currently standing in to present the popular afternoon show until the end of the year, following Anne Robinson's shock exit earlier this year. Anne said at the time: "I’ve had a blast hosting this wonderful show, and I stayed longer than I signed up for. Now it is time for an older woman to take the reins. "I hope too I’ve encouraged TV bosses to realise that not all women at the wrong end of their seventies are in care homes playing bingo and watching conjuring tricks. "In fact the genius of Countdown is that it’s a brilliant way to keep the brain exercised. I run 5k most days of the week." Check out the best comfort TV shows to binge watch now: Married At First Sight Australia (All 4) Although the UK version of Married At First Sight is brilliant, the Australian series takes the drama to the next level! You can watch series 4-9 on All 4 now. If that's not enough, you can also watch MAFS UK, USA and New Zealand on All 4. Ru Paul’s Drag Race (BBC iPlayer) With series 4 airing, you can binge all of series 1, 2 and 3 right now on BBC iPlayer. The Great British Bake Off (All 4) Fancy reliving some of the best GBBO episodes? Series 1-5 of is available now on All 4. You can also catch up on weekly episodes of series 6. The Durrells (ITV Hub) Series 3 and 4 of ITV's British comedy-drama The Durrells is available to watch now on the ITV Hub. Call the Midwife (BBC iPlayer) You can watch series 1-11 of Call the Midwife, as well as some Christmas specials, on BBC iPlayer right now. The Repair Shop You can watch series 4-10 of The Repair Shop on BBC iPlayer, with experts Jay Blades, Suzie Fletcher, Steve Fletcher, Will Kirk, Kirsten Ramsay and Dominic Chinea. The Simpsons (All 4) A classic that never fails to cheer anybody up! The Simpsons is available on All 4. Sherlock (BBC iPlayer) If you missed it the first time around, series 1-4 of crime drama Sherlock, featuring Benedict Cumberbatch, are available now on the BBC iPlayer. First Dates (All 4) Fancy some love in your life? Join some singletons at Fred Sirieix's First Dates restaurant, with series 1-19 available on All 4. First Dates Hotel and Teen First Dates are also available to watch. Our Yorkshire Farm Follow the lives of Amanda and Clive Owen and their nine children as they work and live on their sheep farm in Swaledale. Series 1-5 are available on MY5. The Vicar of Dibley (BBC iPlayer) Series 1-3, as well as the 2004 and 2006 Christmas specials are available to watch on the BBC iPlayer. The special 'lockdown' episode, which aired in December 2020, is also available for fans to catch up. Taskmaster (All 4) Series 1-13 of BAFTA-award winning game show Taskmaster, hosted by Greg Davies, are also available on All 4 right now. MasterChef Let your mouth water as Gregg Wallace and John Torode try and find the next MasterChef. As well as a number of celebrity series, you can watch series 15-18 of MasterChef on the BBC iPlayer. You can also watch episodes of Celebrity MasterChef and MasterChef Australia. It hasn't yet been announced who will take over the reigns of Countdown full time, but between 4th-15th August, fans will get to see Les Dennis back on TV. Countdown airs every weekday on Channel 4 at 2.10pm. Now read: Richard Osman responds to rumours he's set to be new Countdown host All of the popular TV shows looking for applicants right now


--- [Les Dennis to guest host Countdown after Anne Robinson's exit] ---
Les Dennis to guest host Countdown after Anne Robinson's exit The Family Fortunes favourite will step into the role as host for a short period in early August. Les Dennis has announced that he will guest host Countdown in early August, after Anne Robinson's final episode aired earlier this month. Colin Murray has temporarily replaced Robinson until the end of this year, but Dennis will step in for a limited time from 4th August until 15th August. Dennis is known for presenting Family Fortunes between 1987 and 2002, as well as playing Michael Rodwell in Coronation Street and appearing in Ricky Gervais' Extras. He recently joined the Only Fools and Horses musical as Grandad. Announcing his role as a guest host, Dennis posted on Twitter: "From 4th August until 15th I shall be hosting the iconic @C4Countdown. It is such an honour. Hope you enjoy." Want to see this content? This page contains content provided by Twitter. We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as Twitter may use cookies and other technologies. To view this content, choose 'Accept and continue' to allow Twitter and its required purposes. Robinson hosted the iconic gameshow for just over a year, and when she announced her departure she said she had "stayed longer than [she] signed up for". The show's previous permanent hosts have included Nick Hewer, Jeff Stelling, Des O'Connor, Des Lynam, and Richard Whiteley, who was the show's original host and was on it for 23 years until his death in 2005. Want to see this content? To show this content, we need your permission to allow Google reCAPTCHA and its required purposes to load content on this page. When Murray was announced as temporary host in May, he said on Twitter that he is "like the assistant manager, given the job until the end of season", while adding that it is an "absolute honour" to host his "fave show ever". Meanwhile, Rachel Riley wrote ahead of Murray's first show that he's a "lovely bloke" who "loves the show, the game, the contestants and the team and we all love him". A permanent replacement for Robinson has yet to be announced, although Hewer previously told RadioTimes.com that his personal picks would include Murray or Gyles Brandreth. Countdown airs weekdays at 2:10pm on Channel 4. If you’re looking for more to watch, check out our TV Guide or visit our Entertainment hub for more news and features. The latest issue of Radio Times magazine is on sale now – subscribe now and get the next 12 issues for only £1. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to the Radio Times podcast with Jane Garvey. Authors James Hibbs is a Drama Writer for Radio Times, covering programmes across both streaming platforms and linear channels. He previously worked in PR, first for a B2B agency and subsequently for international TV production company Fremantle. He possesses a BA in English and Theatre Studies and an NCTJ Level 5 Diploma in Journalism.


--- [Countdown switch up due to Covid sees Les Dennis make his ...] ---
Countdown switch up due to Covid sees Les Dennis make his debut with ex Corrie co-star Les Dennis made his debut as the host of Countdown today, though he wasn't meant to be in that position - with a switch up seeing him reunited with a former Corrie co-star on the show Les Dennis made his debut hosting Countdown earlier this afternoon, with the unexpected role reuniting him with former Coronation Street co-star Daniel Brocklebank. The latest episode of the Channel 4 game show saw Les, 68, in the host seat - with him temporarily taking over from Colin Murray, 45, for several episodes due to air this month. Les explained on the show earlier: "I was due today to be over in 'Dictionary Corner' [...] but sadly [Colin] has fallen foul of the dreaded Covid, so has to stay home and isolate." He therefore stepped in as host instead, which meant there was a vacancy for someone to work with Susie Dent, 57, in 'Dictionary Corner' - with Daniel, 42, filling the spot. READ MORE: Countdown host amused over rude word as Rachel Riley manages to keep straight faceDaniel - best known for playing Billy Mayhew on the ITV soap - announced his involvement on Instagram earlier, sharing a photo of his name on the door of a dressing room. He told fans: "I'm hugely excited to say that today starts my guest appearances on Countdown in dictionary corner with the fabulous Susie Dent and my pal Les Dennis hosting." The actor had joined Coronation Street in 2014, which is the same year that Les had made his debut as Michael Rodwell on the ITV soap. They were co-stars until Les left in 2016. Daniel referenced his character Billy - who is a vicar - after being introduced on Countdown, saying: "I'm hoping God is on my side today because I haven't got a clue either." Do you enjoy reading about celebrities? Sign up for all the best celeb news from the Mirror here . Les had said: "I was due to be in 'Dictionary Corner' so not only am I here by accident, but joining us at the last minute [in that guest spot] is my friend [...] Daniel Brocklebank." Colin - who's been fronting the show since Anne Robinson, 77, stepped down - praised his temporary replacement in a post on Twitter earlier this afternoon amid his absence. He tweeted: "My recent bout of Covid has me away [...] for a few weeks but stay tuned in. [Les] and Jenny Eclair stepped in like the legends they are and episodes are great." Countdown airs weekdays at 2.10pm on Channel 4. You can catch up on previous episodes of the show through All4. Do you have a story to sell? Get in touch with us at webcelebs@mirror.co.uk or call us direct 0207 29 33033.
