=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[RJD leader Prabhunath Singh gets life imprisonment in 1995 double murder case | Latest News India - Hindustan Times]
The Supreme Court on Friday sentenced Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and former member of Parliament (MP) Prabhunath Singh to life imprisonment in a double murder case of 1995, days after it ...
URL: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-leader-prabhunath-singh-gets-life-imprisonment-in-1995-double-murder-case-101693545213664.html

[Prabhunath Singh - Wikipedia]
On 23 May 2017, Singh was sentenced to life imprisonment by the Hazaribagh Court for his connection with the murder of MLA Ashok Singh 22 years prior. Prabhunath Singh had been elected as MLA twice, and as Lok Sabha MP four times.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prabhunath_Singh

[Prabhunath guilty of '95 MLA murder - Telegraph India]
May 19, 2017 — ... murder of Ashok Singh, the then Janata Dal MLA from Masrakh in Saran ... The convicts could be punished with death or imprisonment for life.
URL: https://m.telegraphindia.com/india/prabhunath-guilty-of-95-mla-murder/cid/1500146

[Former MP Prabhunath Singh sentenced to life for killing 2 who voted against him - India Today]
The Supreme Court on Friday sentenced former Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) MP Prabhunath Singh to life imprisonment in a 1995 double murder case. The development comes after Singh was found guilty of shooting down two persons, for allegedly voting against him in 1995, stating that this case was an "exceptionally painful episode of our criminal ...
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/law-today/story/prabhunath-singh-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-former-rjd-mp-2429474-2023-09-01

[Prabhunath Singh, RJD leader and Lalu aide, sentenced to life ...]
May 23, 2017 · A court in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand sentenced Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and former MP Prabhunath Singh to life imprisonment on Tuesday in the 22-year-old murder case of murder of MLA Ashok Singh.
URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/india/rjd-leader-prabhunath-singh-sentenced-to-life-in-mla-murder-case-lalu-yadav-4669440/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [RJD leader Prabhunath Singh gets life imprisonment in 1995 double murder case | Latest News India - Hindustan Times] ---
RJD leader Prabhunath Singh gets life imprisonment in 1995 double murder case Supreme Court sentences RJD leader Prabhunath Singh to life imprisonment in double murder case of 1995. The Supreme Court on Friday sentenced Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and former member of Parliament (MP) Prabhunath Singh to life imprisonment in a double murder case of 1995, days after it reversed his trail court verdict acquitting him. The court also directed Singh and the Bihar government to pay ₹10 lakh each to the families of the two deceased victims and ₹5 lakh to an injured victim in the case which involved the killing of two people on the day of polling for assembly elections in Chapra in Saran district in March 1995. The two were shot dead because they did not vote as per Singh’s suggestion. A bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul had convicted Singh, also a former MLA, for the murders of Daroga Rai and Rajendra Rai and for attempting to kill a woman. The apex court overturned the orders of the trial court and Patna high court, observing that it was dealing with an “exceptionally painful episode of our criminal justice system”. It is rare, if not unprecedented, for the Supreme Court, which is the top-most appellate court in the country, to convict a person. It usually upholds or rejects the conviction of a person for an offence on appeal. A trial court in December 2008 acquitted Prabhunath Singh citing lack of evidence and the Patna high court later upheld the acquittal in 2012. Rajendra Rai’s brother challenged the acquittal in the Supreme Court. "In the case with which we are dealing, there is no iota of doubt that the accused-respondent no.2 (Singh) was instrumental in making all possible efforts to wipe out the evidence against him and the prosecution machinery as also the presiding officer of the trial court, if we may say so, was used as a tool of his highhandedness," the bench said in its 143-page judgement. "In the present case, the FIR, being a public document and a dying declaration of the informant, is the foundation of the entire prosecution case. However, in the present matter, we have to find out the 'evidence of those persons who can vouchsafe for the truth of the facts in issue,” the bench said. “We set aside the impugned order of the Patna high court and convict respondent no 2...Prabhunath Singh, under Section 302 (murder) for the murders of Daroga Rai and Rajendra Rai. We direct the home secretary of...Bihar and the director general of police of the state to arrest Prabhunath Singh and produce him before this court in custody on the next date of hearing to be heard on [the] argument of [the] sentence,” said Justice Nath, reading out the operative part of the judgment. - ABOUT THE AUTHORHT News Desk Follow the latest breaking news and developments from India and around the world with Hindustan Times' newsdesk. From politics and policies to the economy and the environment, from local issues to national events and global affairs, we've got you covered.Read More


--- [Prabhunath Singh - Wikipedia] ---
Prabhunath Singh is a politician from Bihar, India and was a member of the 12th, 13th and 14th Lok Sabha. Singh represented the Masrakh assembly constituency from 1985 to 1995, and the Maharajganj Lok Sabha constituency of Bihar from 1998 to 2009. In 2013, he won the bypoll and remained as MP until 2014. Singh is a member of the JDU and currently serving life imprisonment in murder case.




--- [Prabhunath guilty of '95 MLA murder - Telegraph India] ---
Patna/Hazaribagh, May 18: A Jharkhand court today convicted former MP Prabhunath Singh, 63, in connection with the 1995 murder of Ashok Singh, the then Janata Dal MLA from Masrakh in Saran. The verdict comes as a blow to the once don of north Bihar who enjoyed the support of politicians ranging from Chandra Shekhar to Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad. The court in Hazaribagh, which was hearing the case after its transfer from Bihar on orders of Patna High Court in 1997, will pronounce the quantum of punishment on May 23. Two others have been convicted along with the former don - his brother Dinanath Singh and a former mukhiya, Ritesh Singh. The trio were found guilty under sections 302 (murder), 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon), 34 (common intention) of the IPC and sections 3/5 of the Explosive Substance Act and section 27 of the Arms Act. The convicts could be punished with death or imprisonment for life. Hazaribagh additional district and sessions judge-IX Surendra Sharma announced the order around 11.30am in a jam-packed court. While the order brought cheers on the faces of the slain legislator's relatives, the supporters of Prabhunath, who were present in the courtroom in large numbers, dispersed in dismay. All the three convicts were taken to Jaya Prakash Narayan Central Jail in Hazaribagh. "This is for the first time that Prabhunath has been convicted for criminal offence by any court of law," said a supporter of Prabhunath, whose first political "patron" was former Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar, who won from Maharajganj in the 1989 Lok Sabha polls. Prabhunath, who has been a Lok Sabha member from Maharajganj four times representing the Janata Dal and later its splinter parties, Nitish Kumar's JDU and Lalu Prasad's RJD, refused to comment on the verdict after stepping out of the courtroom. His lawyer Binod Singh said he would comment after the sentence is pronounced on May 23. Chandni Devi, wife of the slain legislator, said: "Justice has finally been done to the family after 22 years. It was not an easy task to pursue the case for such a long period." Ashok's mother Basanti Devi turned emotional. "I am waiting for the moment when the killers of my young son will be hanged to death. I hope the court will award the offenders the maximum punishment for the offence," she said. Ashok Singh's elder brother and former MLA, Tarkeshwar Singh, said the family had been waiting for justice for nearly 22 years. " Ishwar ke ghar mein der hai andher nahi, is all what I can say," he said. Ashok, then a newly elected lawmaker, was attacked with crude bombs when he was sitting on the lawns of his official bungalow (M51) on Strand Road located in Patna's protected area on the evening of July 3, 1995. Another person, identified as Anil Singh, who had come to meet Ashok from his constituency, was also killed in the attack. Recalling the incident, Raghvendra Kumar Singh, who was the personal assistant of the slain MLA, said Ashok was sitting on the lawns after returning from the police headquarters where he had gone to meet then director-general of police G.P. Dohre to seek proper security cover while travelling to his Assembly constituency. Around 7pm on July 3, 1995, three persons, one of them carrying a bag, entered the premises. After introducing themselves as voters of Masrakh, they expressed their desire to meet the legislator. They said they were being victimised by Prabhunath for supporting him (Ashok) in the elections that had been held a few months ago. "After listening to them, I started walking towards the legislator to inform him. To my surprise, I found the three had also followed me to the lawns. They thanked the MLA and sat down. Ashokji finished his work (the MLA was busy writing something on his official letterhead), and enquired from the men about the purpose of their visit," Raghvendra said. The trio said the henchmen of the former MLA (read Prabhunath) were harassing them. The MLA assured them he would do something. "As he (Ashok) was about to move, one of the three visitors took out a crude bomb from his bag and lobbed it on his face. He suffered serious injuries in the explosion," Raghvendra said. The MLA's bodyguard, Rustam, and driver Sohrat Mahto rushed the injured Ashok to Patna Medical College and Hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. The assailants hurled another bomb near the gate of the bungalow, killing Anil Singh. Three others suffered injuries in the process, Raghvendra said. According to the FIR lodged with the Secretariat police station on the statement of Ashok's wife Chandni Devi, Prabhunath, his brother Dina Nath Singh and three or four others were watching the scene from a spot a stone's throw away from the bungalow. After the incident, they escaped in a car which was being driven by Prabhunath, Chandni said in her complaint. During the course of investigation, the names of other accused - Ritesh Singh (former mukhiya), Kedar Singh (another brother of Prabhunath) and Sudhir Singh (assailant) - were added in the FIR. The trial of Kedar and Sudhir had been separated.


--- [Former MP Prabhunath Singh sentenced to life for killing 2 who voted against him - India Today] ---
Ex-Bihar MP Prabhunath Singh sentenced to life in 1995 double murder case Prabhunath Singh, a former Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) MP, was on Friday sentenced to life imprisonment by the Supreme Court. In 1995, Singh had shot dead two people who had voted against him. The Supreme Court on Friday sentenced former Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) MP Prabhunath Singh to life imprisonment in a 1995 double murder case. The development comes after Singh was found guilty of shooting down two persons, for allegedly voting against him in 1995, stating that this case was an "exceptionally painful episode of our criminal justice system". On August 18, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Abhay S Oka and Vikram Nath convicted Singh of the offences under Sections 302 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). After hearing submissions on the quantum of the sentence, the bench awarded a life term to the convict. Delivering its verdict in the case, the Supreme Court also directed the Bihar government to provide Rs 10 lakh as ex-gratia to the families of both victims. The bench said a detailed order will be uploaded. WHO IS PRABHUNATH SINGH Prabhunath Singh has been a member of the 12th, 13th and 14th Lok Sabha. He represented the Masrakh Assembly Constituency from 1985 to 1995, and the Maharajganj Lok Sabha constituency of Bihar from 1998 to 2009. In 2013, Prabhunath Singh won the bypoll and remained a Member of Parliament until 2014. The 1995 double murder case involved the killing of two people on the day of polling for assembly elections in Chapra in Bihar's Saran district in March 1995. The top court, while convicting Singh, a multiple-term former MP from Bihar's Maharajganj, had observed there was not even an iota of doubt that Singh was instrumental in making all possible efforts to "wipe out" the evidence against him.


--- [Prabhunath Singh, RJD leader and Lalu aide, sentenced to life ...] ---
Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram A court in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand sentenced Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and former MP Prabhunath Singh to life imprisonment on Tuesday in the 22-year-old murder case of murder of MLA Ashok Singh. The court had earlier convicted the senior RJD leader and four-time MP from Maharajganj in north Bihar along with his brothers Dinanath Singh and Ritesh Singh on May 18, sending them to custody. Ashok Singh, then Janata Dal MLA from Masrakh in north Bihar’s Saran district, was killed at his official residence in Patna on July 3, 1995. After the incident, his wife registered an FIR at Sachivalaya police station in Patna. During the investigation, Prabhunath Singh was named accused in the case. Prabhunath’s relatives Kedar Singh, Ritesh Singh and Sudhir Singh were also found complicit. Reportedly, there was an attack on Ashok Singh before on December 28, 1991. The Supreme Court in 1997 transferred the case from Patna to Hazaribagh after it was alleged that accused could influence the investigation. Prabhunath Singh had lost in the last Lok Sabha election from Maharajganj to BJP’s Janardhan Singh Sigriwal. Singh was considered a close aide of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Stay updated with the latest - Click here to follow us on Instagram
