=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murders of Yuna and Minu Jo - Wikipedia]
In August 2022 the bodies of two children, Yuna and Minu Jo, were found in suitcases in Auckland, New Zealand. The suitcases were bought from the sale of an abandoned storage unit where the bodies are suspected to have been stored for multiple years.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murders_of_Yuna_and_Minu_Jo

[A New Zealand woman is convicted of murdering her 2 children and ...]
Sep 23, 2025 · Hakyung Lee was charged with killing Minu Jo, 6, and Yuna Jo, 8, in June 2018. The children’s remains were found inside luggage at an abandoned storage unit in Auckland in August 2022.
URL: https://www.nbcnews.com/world/asia/new-zealand-woman-convicted-murdering-2-children-bodies-suitcases-rcna233112

[Children's bodies in suitcases: Mother's trial adjourned - 1News]
The case so far Minu Jo and Yuna Jo were found dead in August 2022 after a family bought the contents of an abandoned storage locker in Papatoetoe. The family took the goods to their home in Clendon Park, where the bodies were discovered in suitcases among the items. It's believed the children died in 2018.
URL: https://www.1news.co.nz/2024/04/29/childrens-bodies-in-suitcases-mothers-trial-adjourned/

[Deaths of Yuna and Minu Jo - Wikiwand]
In August 2022 the bodies of two children, Yuna and Minu Jo, were found in suitcases in Auckland, New Zealand. The suitcases were bought from the sale of a storage unit where the bodies are suspected to have been stored for multiple years. In September 2022, Hakyung Lee, the mother of the children, was arrested in South Korea.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Auckland_suitcase_murders

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murders of Yuna and Minu Jo - Wikipedia] ---
In August 2022 the bodies of two children, Yuna and Minu Jo, were found in suitcases in Auckland, New Zealand. The suitcases were bought from the sale of an abandoned storage unit where the bodies are suspected to have been stored for multiple years. In September 2022, Hakyung Lee, the mother of the children, was arrested in South Korea. She was extradited to New Zealand, and has been charged with the children's murder. Her trial started on 8 September 2025. Following a two-week trial, Lee was convicted of murdering her two children on 23 September 2025. She was sentenced to life imprisonment on 26 November 2025.


--- [A New Zealand woman is convicted of murdering her 2 children and ...] ---
WELLINGTON, New Zealand — A jury in New Zealand on Tuesday found a woman guilty of murdering her two children and leaving their bodies in suitcases for years before they were discovered. The verdict meant the jury at the High Court in Auckland rejected a defense of insanity made by lawyers for Hakyung Lee, who fled to South Korea after the killings before being extradited to face trial. The swift verdict arrived hours after jurors were sent to deliberate on Tuesday morning. Lee was charged with killing Minu Jo, 6, and Yuna Jo, 8, in June 2018. The children’s remains were found inside luggage at an abandoned storage unit in Auckland in August 2022. Lee, who is a New Zealand citizen, had traveled to South Korea and changed her name in 2018, shortly after the children are believed to have been killed. She was born in South Korea and previously went by the name Ji Eun Lee. The 45-year-old woman was extradited from South Korea in November 2022. She denied the charges, with her lawyers arguing that she was insane at the time of the murders. Lawyers for Lee admitted she had killed the children by giving them an anti-depressant medication, but they said the deaths happened after their client “descended into madness,” Lorraine Smith said. Lee had always been “fragile,” said Smith, but her mental illness became worse after her husband’s death. Prosecutors said that Lee had most likely suffered from depression but that it was not severe enough to support an insanity defense. In New Zealand, such a claim requires a murder defendant to prove they were incapable of understanding what they were doing or that it was wrong. There was a “cold calculation” to Lee’s actions, prosecutor Natalie Walker told the court. Walker said Lee had killed her children out of selfishness and planned to begin a new life without them. The children’s remains were discovered after Lee stopped paying rental fees for an Auckland storage unit when she ran into financial difficulties in 2022. The locker’s contents were auctioned online and the buyers found the bodies inside. After Tuesday’s verdict, Justice Geoffrey Venning ordered that Lee remain in custody until she is sentenced on Nov. 26. Murder carries a mandatory life sentence in New Zealand, with judges required to set a prison term of at least 10 years before an offender can apply for parole. Venning said when the trial began on Sept. 8 that it would be distressing to Lee and granted her permission to watch the proceedings from another room in the courthouse. She returned to the dock for the verdict, and stood with her head bowed and her hair covering her face, New Zealand news outlets reported.


--- [Children's bodies in suitcases: Mother's trial adjourned - 1News] ---
The trial of Hakyung Lee, the South Korean mother accused of murdering her two children and hiding their bodies in suitcases, has been adjourned for fair trial reasons. Her trial, which had been set down for four weeks, had been scheduled to begin at the High Court at Auckland on Wednesday. Lee has been remanded in custody and will reappear in court for a callover next month. A new trial date has not yet been set. It's been six years since the deaths of her two children - Minu Jo, 6, and 8-year-old Yuna Jo - and a year-and-a-half since court proceedings against Lee started. She had previously denied murdering the children. The case so far Minu Jo and Yuna Jo were found dead in August 2022 after a family bought the contents of an abandoned storage locker in Papatoetoe. The family took the goods to their home in Clendon Park, where the bodies were discovered in suitcases among the items. It's believed the children died in 2018. Immigration records show Lee returned to South Korea in 2018. An investigation was opened after the grisly discovery and about a month later, in September 2022, Lee was arrested in South Korea at New Zealand's request. South Korean police found her in the city of Ulsan. Lee was extradited and landed back in New Zealand in November that year. She's been before the courts since then, and lost her name suppression in July last year.


--- [Deaths of Yuna and Minu Jo - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:
