=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dolly (sheep) - Wikipedia]
Dolly (5 July 1996 - 14 February 2003) was a female Finn-Dorset sheep and the first mammal that was cloned from an adult somatic cell. She was cloned by associates of the Roslin Institute in Scotland, using the process of nuclear transfer from a cell taken from a mammary gland (somatic cell nuclear transfer). [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolly_(sheep)

[Dolly (sheep) Facts for Kids]
Dolly (sheep) facts for kids Dolly lived her entire life at the Roslin Institute. She was bred with a Welsh Mountain ram. She gave birth to six lambs in total. Her first lamb was named Bonnie. Bonnie was born in April 1998. The next year, Dolly had twins, Sally and Rosie. In 2000, she gave birth to triplets: Lucy, Darcy, and Cotton. In late 2001, Dolly was four years old. She started to ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Dolly_(sheep)

[July 5, 1966: The World's Most Famous Sheep, Dolly, Was Born at the ...]
Jul 5, 2020 · Dolly was cloned by Keith Campbell, Ian Wilmut and colleagues at the Roslin Institute and the biotechnology company PPL Therapeutics, based near Edinburgh. The funding for Dolly’s cloning was provided by PPL Therapeutics and the Ministry of Agriculture.
URL: https://vintagenewsdaily.com/july-5-1966-the-worlds-most-famous-sheep-dolly-was-born-at-the-roslin-institute-in-scotland/

[Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate]
On the Subject tab in the Certificate Properties, enter a suitable Common name for the Subject, if required In the Alternative names section, select Type: DNS and add the FQDNs for the desired SANs. Options for key usage and so on should be preconfigured on the other tabs.
URL: https://serverfault.com/questions/476413/subject-alternative-name-not-added-to-certificate

[April 13 in World History || 1998 || Dolly the Sheep || World Today # ...]
On April 13, 1998, Dolly the sheep, the first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell, gave birth to a lamb named Bonnie at the Roslin Institute in Scotland. This was a significant event because it ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LwxnOri_Q58


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dolly (sheep) - Wikipedia] ---
Dolly (5 July 1996 – 14 February 2003) was a female Finn-Dorset sheep and the first mammal that was cloned from an adult somatic cell. She was cloned by associates of the Roslin Institute in Scotland, using the process of nuclear transfer from a cell taken from a mammary gland (somatic cell nuclear transfer). Her cloning  proved that a cloned organism could be produced from a mature cell from a specific body part. Contrary to popular belief, she was not the first animal to be cloned.
The employment of adult somatic cells instead of embryonic stem cells for cloning emerged from the foundational work of John Gurdon, who cloned African clawed frogs in 1958 with this approach. The successful cloning of Dolly led to widespread advancements within stem cell research, including the discovery of induced pluripotent stem cells.
Dolly lived at the Roslin Institute throughout her life and produced several lambs. She was euthanized at the age of six years due to a progressive lung disease. No cause that linked the disease to her cloning was found.
Dolly's body was preserved and donated by the Roslin Institute in Scotland to the National Museum of Scotland, where it has been regularly exhibited since 2003.


--- [Dolly (sheep) Facts for Kids] ---
Dolly (sheep) facts for kids | Dolly (taxidermy) | | | Other name(s) | 6LLS (code name) | |---|---| | Species | Domestic sheep (Finn-Dorset) | | Sex | Female | | Born | Roslin Institute, Midlothian, Scotland | 5 July 1996 | Died | 14 February 2003 Roslin Institute, Midlothian, Scotland | (aged 6) | Resting place | National Museum of Scotland (remains on display) | | Nation from | United Kingdom (Scotland) | | Known for | First mammal cloned from an adult somatic cell | | Offspring | 6 lambs (Bonnie; twins Sally and Rosie; triplets Lucy, Darcy and Cotton) | | Named after | Dolly Parton | Dolly (born July 5, 1996 – died February 14, 2003) was a female sheep. She was the first mammal ever cloned from an adult body cell. This was a big step in science! Scientists at the Roslin Institute in Scotland created Dolly. They used a special method called nuclear transfer. This method took a cell from a sheep's udder. Dolly's birth showed that a full animal could be made from a mature cell. This cell came from a specific part of the body. Many people think Dolly was the first animal cloned. But she was actually the first cloned from an adult cell. Other animals had been cloned before her. Dolly lived her whole life at the Roslin Institute. She even had several lambs of her own. She was put to sleep when she was six years old. This was because she had a serious lung disease. Scientists said this disease was not linked to her being a clone. After she died, Dolly's body was preserved. You can see her on display at the National Museum of Scotland. Contents How Dolly Was Made Dolly was cloned by a team of scientists. These included Keith Campbell and Ian Wilmut. They worked at the Roslin Institute in Scotland. This institute is part of the University of Edinburgh. A company called PPL Therapeutics also helped. Dolly was born on July 5, 1996. She passed away on February 14, 2003. She had a lung disease. This disease was common in sheep. Scientists did not believe it was linked to her being a clone. Dolly has been called "the world's most famous sheep." The cell used to create Dolly came from a sheep's udder. An udder is a mammary gland. Making a healthy clone from this cell was amazing. It proved that a cell from one body part could create a whole new animal. Ian Wilmut explained Dolly's name. He said, "Dolly is from a mammary gland cell. We couldn't think of a more impressive pair of glands than Dolly Parton's." Dolly's Birth Story Dolly was born on July 5, 1996. She had three "mothers" in a way. One sheep gave the egg. Another sheep provided the DNA. A third sheep carried the cloned embryo. This third sheep was like a surrogate mother. Dolly was made using a method called somatic cell nuclear transfer. Here's how it works: - Scientists took the center part (the cell nucleus) from an adult cell. This cell came from the udder. - They put this nucleus into an egg cell. This egg cell had its own nucleus removed. - The new cell was then given an electric shock. This made it start dividing. - When it grew into a tiny ball of cells, it was put into a surrogate mother. Dolly was the first clone from an adult mammal cell. Her birth showed that adult cells can be "reset." They can go back to an early state. This means they can then grow into any part of an animal. Dolly's existence was announced on February 22, 1997. It caused a huge stir in the news. There were TV commercials and special reports. Science magazine even called Dolly the "breakthrough of the year." She got so much attention because she was cloned from an adult cell. Dolly's Life Dolly lived her entire life at the Roslin Institute. She was bred with a Welsh Mountain ram. She gave birth to six lambs in total. Her first lamb was named Bonnie. Bonnie was born in April 1998. The next year, Dolly had twins, Sally and Rosie. In 2000, she gave birth to triplets: Lucy, Darcy, and Cotton. In late 2001, Dolly was four years old. She started to develop arthritis. This made her walk stiffly. She was given medicine to help with the pain. Dolly's Passing Dolly died on February 14, 2003. She had a serious lung disease. She also had severe arthritis. A sheep like Dolly usually lives for about 11 to 12 years. Dolly lived for 6.5 years. After she died, doctors examined her body. They found she had a type of lung cancer. It is common in sheep. Scientists at Roslin said they did not think her being a clone caused this. Other sheep in the same group had also died from the same disease. Lung diseases are a risk for sheep kept indoors. Dolly had to sleep inside for safety reasons. Some news reports wondered if Dolly died early because she was a clone. They thought she might have been "born" with the genetic age of the adult sheep she was cloned from. This idea came from finding that Dolly's telomeres were short. Telomeres are parts of DNA that get shorter as cells age. However, the Roslin Institute said that health checks showed no signs of early aging in Dolly. In 2016, scientists studied 13 cloned sheep. Four of these were from the same cell line as Dolly. They found no major health problems in these older cloned sheep. They concluded that cloning did not cause long-term health issues. After her death, Dolly's body was preserved. You can see her on display at the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh. Dolly's Legacy Dolly's success showed that cloning was possible. After her, many other large mammals were cloned. These included pigs, deer, horses, and bulls. Cloning can be difficult. In 1996, Dolly was the only lamb to survive out of 277 attempts. By 2014, Chinese scientists were much better at it. They had 70-80% success rates cloning pigs. Cloning might help save animals that are in danger. It could even bring back extinct species. In 2009, scientists cloned a Pyrenean ibex. This wild mountain goat was declared extinct in 2000. The cloned ibex died soon after birth. But it was the first time an extinct animal had been cloned. This opens doors for saving endangered animals. In July 2016, four sheep were alive and healthy. They were exact clones of Dolly. Their names were Daisy, Debbie, Dianna, and Denise. They were nine years old. Scientific American said in 2016 that Dolly's biggest impact wasn't just cloning animals. It was on stem cell research. After Dolly, scientists learned that regular cells could be "reprogrammed." These reprogrammed cells are called induced pluripotent stem cells. They can be grown into almost any body tissue. In 2018, the first primate (like monkeys and humans) was cloned. This used the same method as Dolly. Two identical macaque monkeys, Zhong Zhong and Hua Hua, were born in China. In 2019, scientists in China cloned five more monkeys. These monkeys were also gene-edited. This was done to study different medical diseases. See also In Spanish: Oveja Dolly para niños - In re Roslin Institute (Edinburgh) – A US court decision about whether Dolly could be patented.


--- [July 5, 1966: The World's Most Famous Sheep, Dolly, Was Born at the ...] ---
Dolly was part of a series of experiments at the Roslin Institute, part of the University of Edinburgh in Scotland, that were trying to develop a better method for producing genetically modified livestock. If successful, this would mean fewer animals would need to be used in future experiments. Scientists at Roslin also wanted to learn more about how cells change during development and whether a specialized cell, such as a skin or brain cell, could be used to make a whole new animal. | Dolly the Sheep, the world’s first cloned mammal, is shown in this undated photo. (Photo: Getty Images) | | Dolly, center, was the world’s first cloned sheep. Dolly was located at the Roslin Institute in Scotland. (Photo: Karen Kasmauski/Getty Images) | Dolly was cloned by Keith Campbell, Ian Wilmut and colleagues at the Roslin Institute and the biotechnology company PPL Therapeutics, based near Edinburgh. The funding for Dolly’s cloning was provided by PPL Therapeutics and the Ministry of Agriculture. She was born on July 5, 1996 and died from a progressive lung disease five months before her seventh birthday (the disease was not considered related to her being a clone) on February 14, 2003. She has been called “the world’s most famous sheep” by sources including BBC News and Scientific American. Although Dolly was born in July 1996, researchers announced Dolly’s existence on February 22, 1997. The delay in the announcement was due to the time needed to amass sufficient data on the project, check the data, write and get the manuscript published. | Dolly meets the world’s media. (Photo: Murdo Macleod) | On Dolly’s name, Wilmut stated “Dolly is derived from a mammary gland cell and we couldn’t think of a more impressive pair of glands than Dolly Parton’s.” Dolly had three mothers: one provided the egg, another the DNA, and a third carried the cloned embryo to term. She was created using the technique of somatic cell nuclear transfer, where the cell nucleus from an adult cell is transferred into an unfertilized oocyte (developing egg cell) has had its cell nucleus removed. The hybrid cell is then stimulated to divide by an electric shock, and when it develops into a blastocyst it is implanted in a surrogate mother. Dolly was the first clone produced from a cell taken from an adult mammal. The production of Dolly showed that genes in the nucleus of such a mature differentiated somatic cell are still capable of reverting to an embryonic totipotent state, creating a cell that can then go on to develop into any part of an animal. | Dolly in 1997 on the right. Her penmate is Polly, a sheep genetically engineered by the team at Roslin. (Photo: John Chadwick/AP) | | Dolly the Sheep with her first born lamb, called Bonnie. (Photo: The Roslin Institute/The University of Edinburgh) | | Dolly as a lamb with her surrogate mother. (Photo: The Roslin Institute/The University of Edinburgh) | Dolly wasn’t the first animal to be cloned—research on cloning had been going on since the mid-20th century—but she was the first example of successful cloning of a mammal from an adult cell, rather than a more malleable embryo. Getting there wasn’t easy, nor was it easy for laypeople to understand how the Scottish team succeeded. After her death in February 2003, the Roslin Institute donated Dolly’s body to the National Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh, where she has become one of the museum’s most popular exhibits. Dolly is back on display in the museum after an extensive gallery refurbishment, alongside an interactive exhibit on the ethics of creating transgenic animals featuring current research from the Roslin Institute.


--- [Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate] ---
# Subject Alternative Name not added to certificate

I'm trying to issue a new certificate using the additional attribues field within the  Windows CertSrv Web-Enrollment Client.

I added the CSR, picked the template and entered this into the attributes field:

SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME.DOMAIN.COM&ipaddress=IPADRESS


The request is successful but when I check the signed certificate no "Alternative Names" attribute is added to it. Am I missing something? Maybe a issue with the Template? (used a default Win 2003 level webserver template copy with some custom settings).

/edit
Also I've tried to use 

certreq -submit -attrib "CertificateTemplate:MYTEMPLATE" <Cert Request.req> -attrib "SAN:dns=HOSTNAME&dns=HOSTNAME2&ipaddress=IPADDRESS"


resulting in the same problem: cert gets generated, but without any SAN attribute.

/edit2 
also I've set the CA to issue SAN certificates using

certutil -setreg policy\EditFlags +EDITF_ATTRIBUTESUBJECTALTNAME2


and restarting the CA service. Still: no SANs.

Please note: using req. files and OpenSSL to generate the CSR i'm able to generate certifcates using the CA which have some SANs included. However this option is not valid in my current situation since I'm getting the CSR from an application and i'm not able to manually generate one for the application.

/edit3
I tried using the default webserver certificate WITHOUT any changes and suddenly it worked. So now the question is: what are the template requirements to enable SAN?



--- [April 13 in World History || 1998 || Dolly the Sheep || World Today # ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
