=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tom Suozzi - Wikipedia]
Suozzi was born on August 31, 1962, in Glen Cove, New York, the youngest of five siblings. [8] His father, Joseph A. Suozzi, was an attorney and served as Glen Cove's mayor from 1956 to 1960. Originally from Ruvo del Monte, Italy, Joseph immigrated to the United States as a child. Suozzi's mother, Marguerite (née Holmes), was of Irish and English descent and worked as an operating room nurse ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Suozzi

[Tom Suozzi - Wikiwand]
Thomas Richard Suozzi[1] (/ ˈswɒzi / SWOZ-ee; born August 31, 1962) is an American politician serving as the U.S. representative for New York's 3rd congressional district since 2024 and previously from 2017 to 2023. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the county executive of Nassau County on Long Island from 2002 to 2009 and served before then as the mayor of Glen Cove for eight years ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Tom_Suozzi

[Marge Suozzi dies at 93, after a life of giving | Herald Community Newspapers | www.liherald.com]
Albans, Queens. She was a nurse who worked in the operating room at Glen Cove Hospital. When her family moved to Sea Cliff, she met Joseph Suozzi, an Italian who had immigrated to the U.S.
URL: https://www.liherald.com/stories/marge-suozzi-dies-at-93-after-a-life-of-giving,95351

[About Tom - Suozzi for Congress]
His mother was a nurse, and his father, at 28, was the youngest judge ever elected in the history of New York State. Tom graduated from Chaminade High School, Boston College, and Fordham University School of Law.
URL: https://suozziforcongress.com/about-tom/

[Nassau University Medical Center | East Meadow, NY - NuHealth]
Nassau University Medical Center, in East Meadow, NY is a teaching hospital that has been the primary source of medical care in Nassau County since 1935.
URL: https://www.numc.edu/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tom Suozzi - Wikipedia] ---
Thomas Richard Suozzi ( SWOZ-ee; born August 31, 1962) is an American politician serving as the U.S. representative for New York's 3rd congressional district since 2024 and previously from 2017 to 2023. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the county executive of Nassau County on Long Island from 2002 to 2009 and served before then as the mayor of Glen Cove for eight years. His district, which is largely suburban, includes northern Nassau County and parts of northeastern Queens.
In 2006, he ran unsuccessfully against Eliot Spitzer for the Democratic nomination for governor of New York. Suozzi was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2016 and reelected in 2018 and 2020. He retired from Congress to run again for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination in 2022, losing to incumbent governor Kathy Hochul.
In October 2023, Suozzi announced that he would run for his old congressional seat in 2024. After Congress expelled George Santos that December, a special election to fill the remainder of the term was scheduled for February 13, 2024. Suozzi was selected as the Democratic nominee, and then won the special election, reclaiming the seat for Democrats.


--- [Tom Suozzi - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Marge Suozzi dies at 93, after a life of giving | Herald Community Newspapers | www.liherald.com] ---
Marguerite Holmes Suozzi, who was related in one way or another to several of Glen Cove’s most powerful elected leaders but refused to get involved in politics, died at age 93 on Sept. 2, of natural causes. Although she was unfailingly committed to Glen Cove, her family members always came first. They were at her bedside when she died. Suozzi was the wife of the late Joseph Suozzi, who was the youngest city judge ever elected in the U.S., a state Supreme Court justice, an Appellate Division justice and one of Glen Cove’s most powerful mayors. She was the mother of U.S. Rep. Thomas Suozzi, who also served as the city’s mayor, as did two other Suozzis — Marguerite’s brother-in-law Jimmy, and his son, Ralph. Marge, as she was known, campaigned hard for every office-seeking Suozzi, going door to door to collect signatures or manning a phone to get out the vote. “But Mom wasn’t political, like me or Dad,” Tom recalled. “She’d talk to people one on one. I remember when we’d leave church, we were in the car, wanting to go home. We’d have to wait for Mom, who was busy talking to everyone.” Many will remember her for her stewardship of the popular Morgan Park Summer Festival — free weekly concerts in Glen Cove. Once it was established, it was Marge who hired the entertainment and chaired the festival, which she did for 56 years. Doris Meadows, a volunteer on the festival’s executive committee, remembered Marge’s warmth and welcoming spirit. “When I volunteered, it was Marge who immediately called me to welcome me,” she said. “I immediately liked her, and we became friends, going to lunch sometimes. She was always receptive to new ideas.” Festival organizers created a contest years ago to identify and support young, talented musicians. In 2016, when Marge stepped down, the Young Performers Talent Competition was named for her. Laura Pratt came up with the idea for the festival. The wife of Harold Pratt, a successful oilman, she lived in the Glen Cove mansion where the Holocaust Memorial Museum is now. She and Marge were friends. “The Pratts had over a thousand acres,” Tom said. “My mother was invited to dinner at their home, and she told me she didn’t know which silverware to use. People always think of Mom as elegant, but she grew into that role.” Marge, who had five children, 14 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren, was originally from St. Albans, Queens. She was a nurse who worked in the operating room at Glen Cove Hospital. When her family moved to Sea Cliff, she met Joseph Suozzi, an Italian who had immigrated to the U.S. in 1925, and lived in Glen Cove. He would become the love of her life, but he had to work hard to win her affections. They met at the Glen Cove Community Hospital dinner dance in 1949, but they had both brought dates. “She was in a dance contest, and won either second or third place,” Tom recalled. “Dad went up to her and said, ‘If you had danced with me, you would have won first place.’ She said, ‘No, I wouldn’t have, because you’re too short.’ He said, ‘Take off your shoes,’ and she did.” Marge wasn’t interested in getting to know Joseph any better, but he was not one to give up. When he heard that her family was having an open house on New Year’s Day, he dropped by. Marge ignored him. Undeterred, he sat on the porch steps for hours waiting for her. “That was the beginning of their relationship,” Tom said. Married four years later, they went on to celebrate 64 wedding anniversaries before Joseph died in October 2016. Marge was adventurous. As a young woman, she went sponge diving and deep-sea diving. Tom said he found photos of her wearing a diving suit that included a metal helmet, popular in the 1930s. Marge always insisted on staying in national parks when the family took a cross-country driving vacation. “Dad would want to stay where there was electricity and plumbing, but not Mom,” Tom recalled. “She was even chased by a bear once.” She was athletic, too. An excellent golfer, she won the women’s Nassau County Country Club championship when she was 75, the oldest to ever do so, and she did it again the following year. “The first time, they put ‘Mrs. Marguerite Suozzi’ on the plaque,” Tom said. “The second time, she had them put ‘Mrs. Joseph Suozzi’ on it. She wanted to celebrate my father, too. She was always loyal to Dad.” There were no formal rules for the Suozzi children at home. But Marge made certain they went to church, did their homework and behaved. And she knew how to pick her battles when it came to discipline. After a torrential rainstorm, young Tom decided to go with his friends to an area behind Glen Cove High School, where houses were being built, to play. “We sank to our waist in mud,” he said. “When my friends went home all muddy, they got into a lot of trouble, and one was grounded. My mother said she used to do what I’d done. Then, shrugging her shoulders, she said, ‘You’re supposed to do that as a kid.’” Marge was also a lifelong learner, deciding to go back to college when her children were teenagers to take computer classes. She wanted to become a travel agent to satisfy her adventurous spirit. She did so, and traveled the world in the 1980s and ’90s. She and Joseph donated so generously to the North Shore Historical Museum that in 2013, the museum was named after them. Its director, Amy Driscoll, remembers Marge as someone who always cared about the city. “She was very committed with all of her volunteer and charitable efforts,” Driscoll said. “And they were all targeted at benefiting everyone in the community.” A devout Catholic, Marge was also known for her compassion, doing acts of kindness on the sly. Tom remembers her picking up people she saw when driving him home from school who were carrying bags of groceries. Her life was guided by her faith. She went to church every day, and served as a Eucharistic minister at St. Patrick’s Church and on the road, visiting people who were homebound. Recently, her son said, “My mother was ready to die, and very much at peace. She felt she had done everything she was supposed to do.” Suozzi was predeceased by a son, Joseph. In addition to Tom, her surviving children include the Rev. Rosemary Suozzi Lloyd, of Lincoln, Mass., Willliam Suozzi, of Glen Rock, and Christopher Suozzi, of Manhattan.


--- [About Tom - Suozzi for Congress] ---
About Tom “Serving as a public official has allowed me to do what I always dreamed of doing: help people, clean up pollution, build buildings, solve problems, and try to make people’s lives better.” -Tom Suozzi Tom Suozzi, trained as an attorney and CPA, has devoted most of his adult life to public service. He served as mayor of his home town Glen Cove for eight years, was Nassau County Executive for another eight years and then served six years in Congress. Tom returned to Congress in 2024, now once again proudly representing New York’s 3rd Congressional District. Tom’s father was born in Italy, and his mother was born in Queens. He is a first-generation American who grew up in Glen Cove and, with his wife Helene, has raised their three children there. Tom’s maternal grandfather, a member of Local 3 IBEW for almost 50 years, put the lights on the top of the Empire State Building. His mother was a nurse, and his father, at 28, was the youngest judge ever elected in the history of New York State. Tom graduated from Chaminade High School, Boston College, and Fordham University School of Law. At Fordham, his volunteer work in the soup kitchen at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle helped unleash a wave of student interest in public service, which led to the Fordham Law School’s Public Service Project, which lives on to this day. Tom was elected as mayor of Glen Cove 30 years ago, where he is credited with a dramatic turnaround in his hometown. The New York Times wrote that Tom had “done more to revitalize [Glen Cove] and reinvigorate its flagging economy in a few short years than the last several mayors combined.” In 2001, Tom was elected Nassau County Executive, inheriting a county that had been rated “the worst-run county in the country.” Tom was named Governing Magazine’s Public Official of the Year and was described as “the man who spearheaded Nassau County, New York’s remarkable turnaround from the brink of fiscal disaster.” As Nassau County Executive, Tom oversaw the 12th largest police department in the country. During his tenure, Nassau’s crime rate was reduced drastically and was rated the safest community over 500,000 in the United States. Tom was also named New York State’s Environmentalist of the Year by the League of Conservation Voters for his environmental work. In 2016, Tom was elected to Congress and continued his record of getting things done and delivering for his constituents. In their 2020 endorsement of his reelection, Newsday described Tom as “the relentless voice Long Island needs in Washington,” crediting him for leading the effort to reduce taxes, protect the environment, and improve infrastructure on Long Island. He served on the powerful Ways & Means Committee as well as the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Armed Services. Tom focused on bipartisanship and was the Vice Chair of the Problem Solvers Caucus, which is composed of 25 Democrats and 25 Republicans who meet every week to try and find common ground. In that role, he helped negotiate the historic Infrastructure and Jobs Act, which invested billions of dollars to improve New York’s infrastructure. In 2019, he co-authored a New York Times opinion piece with Republican Congressman Peter King titled “A Grand Compromise on Immigration.” Their approach strengthens security at the border, stops the abuse of the asylum program, better screens immigrants for security risks while creating a path to earned citizenship for immigrants who work hard, follow the law and pay taxes. Tom understands how expensive it is to live on Long Island and in Congress he worked tirelessly to bring federal funds back to Nassau and Queens, increasing funding by almost 500% for the Long Island Sound, securing millions for the Bethpage Water District, and leading a bipartisan effort for New York State to get its fair share of federal funds during Covid. Tom also passed legislation to lower the cost of insulin and other prescription drugs. Tom and his wife Helene reside in Glen Cove. They have three children, Caroline, Joseph, and Michael, and a family dog, Gabby.


--- [Nassau University Medical Center | East Meadow, NY - NuHealth] ---
No content
