=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cliffs at Sunset - Erin Hanson]
Loon Point, in Carpinteria (near Santa Barbara) is captured on a petite canvas with vivid hues of sunset. The brush strokes are loose and impressionistic, alive with color and texture. "Cliffs at Sunset" was created on 1-1/2" deep canvas, and the painting arrives framed in a contemporary gold floater frame, ready to hang.
URL: https://www.erinhanson.com/portfolio/cliffs-at-sunset

[Laguna Coast]
Cliffs at Sunset. Selengkapnya tentang Pin ini. 30. Frekuensi Disimpan ... Loon Point, Carpinteria, landscape oil painting by modern impressionist ...
URL: https://id.pinterest.com/pin/812266482795443738/

[Baby names for boys, girls, and gender neutral | BabyCenter]
Looking for baby name ideas, advice, meanings, and popularity? You'll find everything you need below – including a list of the top 100 baby names, our helpful Baby Name Generator, inspiration lists, the most popular names, names by letter, and much more.
URL: https://www.babycenter.com/baby-names

[The most popular baby names of 2025 - BabyCenter]
Nov 5, 2025 · Olivia and Noah aren't budging from their No. 1 titles among BabyCenter parents – but there's plenty of other baby name shakeups to take note of this year.
URL: https://www.babycenter.com/baby-names/most-popular/top-baby-names-2025

[Carpinteria State Beach]
2 days ago · Found tucked into the northwest corner of Carpinteria State Beach in the coastal beach community of Carpinteria, this unique facility lets kids run, jump, slide and generally have fun while it encourages them to imagine living in a Chumash Indian village on the shore of the Pacific Ocean.
URL: https://www.parks.ca.gov/?page_id=599


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cliffs at Sunset - Erin Hanson] ---
Subtotal $0 U.S. Shipping FREE Saved for Later Shopping Cart Subtotal $0 U.S. Shipping FREE Saved for Later Loon Point, in Carpinteria (near Santa Barbara) is captured on a petite canvas with vivid hues of sunset. The brush strokes are loose and impressionistic, alive with color and texture. "Cliffs at Sunset" was created on 1-1/2" deep canvas, and the painting arrives framed in a contemporary gold floater frame, ready to hang. FREE U.S. Shipping LIMITED TIME OFFER (Artwork Only) FREE U.S. Shipping LIMITED TIME OFFER (Artwork Only) A representative of The Erin Hanson Gallery will arrange delivery of your Erin Hanson original oil painting. We will ensure someone is home to receive the artwork before shipping it out. Erin Hanson usually sells half of her original paintings while they are still drying on the dry rack. If your painting is still drying, we will let you know when it is expected to be fully dry and ready to ship (about six to eight weeks after the painting's completion.) If your original oil painting is being displayed at a museum or gallery exhibition, you may still purchase the piece online, and we will ship your painting as soon as the show is over. Note on varnishing: Erin’s paintings take six to eight weeks to dry, at which time we apply a retouching varnish, which allows the painting to complete the curing process while having a layer of protection against dirt and scuffs. The full curing process for an impasto oil painting takes at least two years. We are happy to assist in applying a final finishing varnish to your Erin Hanson oil painting once it has been dry for at least two years. Here is more information on how to care for your original oil painting. 30-Day Artwork Exchange Policy We want you to truly love living with your Erin Hanson artwork. If your original painting, 3D textured replica, or canvas print isn’t the perfect fit for your space, you may exchange it within 30 days of delivery, provided it is returned in its original condition and original packaging. Once received and inspected, we will issue an Erin Hanson Gallery credit equal to your purchase price, which can be applied toward another Erin Hanson artwork of your choice. Please note: We’re always happy to help you find a piece that feels right for your home. Erin Hanson's 3D Textured Replicas are made to order in our state-of-the-art printing facility in McMinnville, Oregon. Please allow up to two weeks for us to make your replica. Erin Hanson personally inspects each 3D Textured Replica to make sure it has the same colors and texture as the original. We will email you a tracking number when your artwork ships. 30-Day Artwork Exchange Policy We want you to truly love living with your Erin Hanson artwork. If your original painting, 3D textured replica, or canvas print isn’t the perfect fit for your space, you may exchange it within 30 days of delivery, provided it is returned in its original condition and original packaging. Once received and inspected, we will issue an Erin Hanson Gallery credit equal to your purchase price, which can be applied toward another Erin Hanson artwork of your choice. Please note: We’re always happy to help you find a piece that feels right for your home. Erin Hanson's canvas prints are made to order in our state-of-the-art printing facility in McMinnville, Oregon. Please allow up to two weeks for us to make your print. We will email you a tracking number when your artwork ships. 30-Day Artwork Exchange Policy We want you to truly love living with your Erin Hanson artwork. If your original painting, 3D textured replica, or canvas print isn’t the perfect fit for your space, you may exchange it within 30 days of delivery, provided it is returned in its original condition and original packaging. Once received and inspected, we will issue an Erin Hanson Gallery credit equal to your purchase price, which can be applied toward another Erin Hanson artwork of your choice. Please note: We’re always happy to help you find a piece that feels right for your home. Returns can be sent to: The Erin Hanson Gallery 1805 NE Colvin Court McMinnville, OR 97128 Packaging: Wooden Crate // Artwork Shipper // Original Artwork Shipper // Rolled in a Tube Your Artwork Arrival: Please be prepared to receive a large wooden pallet. This is the safest way to ship your large artwork. // Your artwork will arrive in an incredibly strong cardboard box that is custom-made to fit the exact size of your artwork. The artwork floats inside thick foam corners that protect the edges. We have never had a piece of artwork arrive damaged from shipping! // Your artwork will arrive in an incredibly strong artwork shipper that is custom-made to fit the exact size of your painting. The painting floats inside thick foam corners that protect the edges. The inside of the box is lined with puncture-and-shatter-proof ABS plastic. We have never had a piece of artwork arrive damaged from shipping! // Your print will arrive safely rolled in a tube. Signature Required: We require a signature upon delivery to ensure the safe arrival of your artwork. Shipping Carrier: FedEx Ground // FedEx Freight Insurance: Your artwork will be shipped fully insured. If your artwork arrives damaged for any reason, please contact us immediately and we will replace or repair it. Shipping Cost: Please use the shopping cart to calculate shipping. Erin Hanson's groundbreaking 3D Textured Replicas provide the texture necessary to experience the full impact and movement of her artwork. Making giclees obsolete with the greatest technological leap since the colored printer, Erin Hanson's 3D Textured Replicas are the closest thing to an original painting. Our replicas are printed using a UV ink that dries hard like acrylic paint. This allows 18 layers of ink to be printed one on top of the other, and we meticulously build up the texture to match the exact brush strokes of the original oil painting, using an ultra-high-resolution 3-dimensional scan of the original oil painting. Erin Hanson's 3D Textured Replicas are almost indistinguishable from the original painting from a short distance away, capturing the texture of every brush stroke and weave of the canvas, as well as the vibrant colors of the original oil painting. These are the most realistic painting reproductions available with today's 3D scanning and printing technology. Erin devoted three years to perfecting the technology of 3D art printing in a quest to create a fine art print that captured her vibrant colors and reproduced the texture crucial to her artistic vision. The rhythms of texture in her luscious, impasto oil paintings communicate the movement and joy she finds in nature. Limited Edition: We offer Limited Edition 3D Textured Replicas in the same size as the original oil painting, as well as several other sizes, and we offer the same luxury framing options we use for Erin's original oil paintings. The Limited Edition 3D Textured Replicas are limited to an edition of 100. (Once we have printed 100 replicas of this painting, we won't print any more.) Erin Hanson's Limited Edition 3D Textured Replicas feature: Side-by-Side Comparison Gold "EH" Frame This elegant floater frame is specially chosen by Erin Hanson to set off her original works and 3D Textured Replicas. Erin paints her paintings with deliberate texture all the way to the edges of her canvas, so a floater frame allows you to enjoy the full picture. The frame's top face is finished in gold leaf, and the sides are black. The molding is 1/2" wide. Silver "EH" Frame The Silver EH Floater Frame ("EH" stands for "Erin Hanson") is great for paintings with cooler tones or to complement a cool-toned decor. The top face is finished in silver metal leaf, and the sides are dark. The molding is 1/2" wide. Gold Plein Air Frame This distressed gold molding is custom-made for Erin Hanson. The classic lines are perfect for setting off the colors of a Hanson painting. The molding is 4” wide. Silver Plein Air Frame This distressed silver molding is custom-made for Erin Hanson. The classic lines are perfect for setting off the colors of a Hanson painting. The molding is 4” wide. Black & Gold Plein Air Frame This plein air molding is custom-made for Erin Hanson. The rich, almost-black frame has a pop of gold along the inner lip. This molding is perfect for bringing out the colors of a Hanson painting. The molding is 3.5” wide. Black Floater This wooden floater frame has an elegant, matte black veneer. The molding is 3/8" wide. White Floater This wooden floater frame has a clean, matte white veneer. The molding is 3/8" wide. Erin Hanson's canvas prints have the illusion of texture, and they accurately reproduce the brilliant colors of Erin's originals. Canvas prints are printed directly onto canvas rolls using our state-of-the-art Epsom printer. These prints do not have texture applied -- they are flat prints, but they accurately capture the illusion of texture because of the shadows cast by the paint ridges during photography. The canvas prints come rolled, stretched, or framed and ready to hang. Canvas Roll: A rolled canvas print arrives in a cylindrical shipping tube. The print will have a black border and some extra canvas to allow for stretching onto 1-1/2” stretcher bars. You can take this rolled print to your local framer for stretching and framing. Unframed Canvas: Erin Hanson stretched canvas prints arrive pre-stretched onto 1-1/2” stretcher bars. The sides of the print are printed black. This print can be hung un-framed, as-is, or you may take it to your local framer and have it framed in a floater frame. Framed Canvas: The framed canvas prints are stretched onto 1-1/2” stretcher bars, and then framed in your choice of floater frame (white, black, gold, or silver.) The floater frames are 3/8” wide, and there is a gap around the print, adding a total of 1-1/2” inches to the overall dimensions of the print. Canvas Roll Framed Canvas Gold Floater This wooden floater frame is finished in light gold-toned metal leaf on the top and sides. The molding is 3/8" wide. Black Floater This wooden floater frame has an elegant, matte black veneer. The molding is 3/8" wide. Silver Floater This wooden floater frame is finished in silver-toned metal leaf on the top and sides. The molding is 3/8" wide. White Floater This wooden floater frame has a clean, matte white veneer. The molding is 3/8" wide. We’re excited to introduce Framed Paper Prints, a brand-new way to bring Erin Hanson’s work into your home. These 16" × 20" paper prints are printed in Erin’s 18,000-square-foot production facility in Oregon using a state-of-the-art 12-color Epson printer and lustruous fine art paper, ensuring exceptional color depth, detail, and vibrancy. Rolled Paper Print: A rolled paper print arrives in a cylindrical shipping tube. The print will be printed edge-to-edge on lustruous, museum-quality artist paper. You can take this rolled print to your local framer for stretching and framing. Framed Paper Print: Each piece is printed edge-to-edge (borderless) on archival, luster-finish artist paper, then professionally framed and ready to hang, making it effortless to enjoy Erin’s work the moment it arrives. Black Frame White Frame Subscribe for new paintings & artist updates! About Erin ERIN HANSON has been painting in oils since she was 8 years old. As a teenager, she apprenticed at a mural studio where she worked on 40-foot-long paintings while selling art commissions on the side. After being told it was too hard to make a living as an artist, she got her degree in Bioengineering from UC Berkeley. Afterward, Erin became a rock climber at Red Rock Canyon, Nevada. Inspired by the colorful scenery she was climbing, she decided to return to her love of painting and create one new painting every week. She has stuck to that decision, becoming one of the most prolific artists in history, with over 3,000 oil paintings sold to eager collectors. Erin Hanson’s style is known as "Open Impressionism" and is taught in art schools worldwide. With millions of followers, Hanson has become an iconic, driving force in the rebirth of impressionism, inspiring thousands of other artists to pick up the brush.


--- [Laguna Coast] ---
The beach near Newport Beach is pictured here in fiery colors of sunset. The wet sands glow w… | Oil painting nature, Contemporary impressionism, Beach oil painting When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select. Touch device users, explore by touch or with swipe gestures.


--- [Baby names for boys, girls, and gender neutral | BabyCenter] ---
Photo credit: © Diane Durongpisitkul / Stocksy United Baby Names Looking for baby name ideas, advice, meanings, and popularity? You'll find everything you need below – including a list of the top 100 baby names, our helpful Baby Name Generator, inspiration lists, the most popular names, names by letter, and much more. Photo credit: © Diane Durongpisitkul / Stocksy United Baby Name Ideas & Inspiration Top baby names - Top girl names - Top boy names - Most popular names 2024 - Most popular names 2023 - Top international names - Top celebrity baby boy names - Top celebrity baby girl names - Most popular names by year - Popular names around the world - Unique baby boy names - Unique baby names - Unique baby girl names Baby names by origin - Japanese names - French names - Greek names - German names - Irish names - Mexican names - Indian names - Unique latin names - African names - British baby names - Italian names - Indigenous Mexican names - Scottish names Top baby names in 2026 As parents share their baby names with us, we share them with you. These rankings count names that are spelled differently (like Sophia and Sofia) as two separate names. Click on a name to learn the name's meaning, popularity over time, and more. Advertisement | page continues below Baby Names A-Z Looking for the perfect baby name? BabyCenter's Baby Name Shuffle learns your preferences and suggests names just for you. Get the app My baby names list Posts and polls in baby names - Baby NamesBy cheerios731I'm 34 weeks and not even close to choosing a name. Jane is a family name, so we'll likely stick with that, but only as a middle name since I already have a James.000 votes - Baby NamesBy CBrea4Which one is the best for first and middle name!? Parker Rhodes Emmett Rhodes Spencer Rhodes50 - Baby NamesBy NellyDeanSisters are Jul!@, 3m!ly, and @udr3y. Choice for a boy would be George. My front runner for #4 is Nora, but DH isn’t convinced. Thanks for your suggestions!90 Latest in Baby Names Swipe to find the perfect baby name, discover meanings, origins, and trends all in one place.


--- [The most popular baby names of 2025 - BabyCenter] ---
The most popular baby names of 2025 Key Takeaways - Olivia and Noah held onto their spots as the No. 1 names for girls and boys. - Eliana and Aurora joined the top 10 girl names for the first time, while Ava and Luna fell out of the top 10. - Luca is back in the top 10 boy names after a one-year hiatus, but Leo is out. Olivia and Noah aren't budging from their No. 1 titles among BabyCenter parents – but there's plenty of other baby name shakeups to take note of this year. Olivia and Amelia are hanging on tight to the No. 1 and 2 spots for girls, but the rest of the top 10 has seen some changes: Sophia (No. 3) and Emma (No. 4) traded places; Isabella (No. 5) and Charlotte (No. 6) also flipped; Ellie (No. 8) rose; and Mia (No. 10) fell. There are two new girl names in the top 10 for the first time ever this year: Eliana (No. 7) and Aurora (No. 9). But that means two other names – Ava (No. 11) and Luna (No. 13) are out. The top 10 boy names saw less movement – in fact, the top 5 are exactly the same as last year: Noah (No. 1), Liam (No. 2), Oliver (No. 3), Elijah (No. 4), and Mateo (No. 5). Meanwhile, Levi (No. 6) and Lucas (No. 7) traded places. Ezra (No. 8) and Asher (No. 9) didn't move. The biggest change in the top 10 boy names was in the No. 10 spot: Luca rejoined the top 10 after falling out in 2024, and Leo (now No. 11) dropped. A new class of girl names is joining the top 100 for the very first time – or rejoining it after years away: - Eloise jumped more than 20 spots to join the top 100 names for the very first time at No. 75. - At No. 84, Sarah is rejoining the top 100 after a year away. - Emersyn climbed a whopping 50 spots to join the top 100 at No. 89. - At No. 92, Sienna is new to the top 100. - Last seen in the top 100 girl names in 2021, Charlie is back at No. 93. - Catalina is in the top 100 for the very first time, at No. 95. - After falling out of the top 100 names in 1943, Josephine is in the top 100 for the first time this century at No. 96. - Juniper is making her first appearance in the top 100, at No. 97. - Oaklynn is debuting in the top 100 at No. 98. - Vivian last appeared in the top 100 in 1934 – and she's back this year at No. 99. - And at No. 100, Kehlani is joining the top 100. But that means just as many girl names fell out of the top 100 this year: Nevaeh (No. 103), Kennedy (No. 105), Anna (No. 107), Ember (No. 108), Jade (No. 109), Savannah (No. 113), Audrey (No. 118), Cora (No. 119), Natalie (No. 120), Skylar (No. 122), and Oakley (No. 142). Meanwhile, just like with the top 10, the top 100 boy names saw less of a shakeup: - Malachi is in the top 100 for the first time at No. 91. - After disappearing from the top 100 in 1970, Arthur skyrocketed 44 spots to reenter the top 100 at No. 95. - Ali is making his first appearance in the top 100 at No. 96. - Clocking in at No. 98, Nathaniel is rejoining the top 100 after falling out in 2016. Hunter (No. 102), Axel (No. 104), Greyson (No. 115), and Max (No. 116) fell out of the top 100 boy names. Read on for the 100 most popular baby names in 2025. For more, check out our predictions for the biggest baby name trends of 2026 and get more name inspiration on the BabyCenter app.


--- [Carpinteria State Beach] ---
Carpenteria Sunset Image General Park Information Located within minutes of the urban centers of Santa Barbara and Ventura, Carpinteria State Beach offers visitors the opportunity to enjoy high-quality outdoor recreation in the setting of a small southern California coastal Community. With terraced bluffs, dune areas and a mile of beach for swimming, surf fishing, tidepool exploring and camping, Carpinteria State Beach is a unique treasure with a rich biological and cultural history. In 1769, the Spanish explorer Gaspar de Portola explored the Santa Barbara coast, eventually meeting the local Chumash people at the village of ‘Mishopshnow’ near what we now call Carpinteria Creek. Portola observed several of their plank “Tomol” canoes being constructed and the incorporation of the naturally-occurring asphaltum (tar) into its design. Members of the Spanish expedition referred to the area as La Carpinteria or ‘The Carpenter Shop,’ later to become Carpinteria. Carpinteria State Beach In-Person School Programs In-person field trips and classroom programs are offered from September to May for grades K – 5. We offer programs on Mondays, Thursdays, and Fridays. For more information, please click on the program registration you wish to schedule. School Field Trip Registration Live Virtual PORTS Programs and Webinars Visit our PORTS Program web page or email us at CarpinteriaSB.Interp@parks.ca.gov to reserve a virtual program. Tar, Not Just a Nuisance! Let’s discover the active tar seeps at Carpinteria State Beach and discuss whether this resource has been a convenience or a nuisance to the animals, plants, and humans that have inhabited this area historically and currently. Explore Our Shore Join us as we learn about the diverse organisms that inhabit our shore and coastal environments at Carpinteria State Beach. Habitats may include tidepools, estuaries, dunes, tar seeps, SB Channel, and more! We will use our observation skills to explore animal and plant adaptations, marine ecosystems, and other ocean fun facts. Sharks: Fact or Fiction? Through a fun and interactive program, students will identify facts from misconceptions about one of the ocean’s most interesting predators, sharks! Summer Programs Campfire and Junior Ranger Programs are offered from mid-June to the end of August. Topics explored include octopuses, sharks, whales, seals, nocturnal animals, deep sea animals, insects, and many more! This unique playscape invites children to enjoy healthy outdoor play while they learn about California’s colorful history at the same time. The Tomol Interpretive Play Area is one of these special places. Found tucked into the northwest corner of Carpinteria State Beach in the coastal beach community of Carpinteria, this unique facility lets kids run, jump, slide and generally have fun while it encourages them to imagine living in a Chumash Indian village on the shore of the Pacific Ocean. Now Hiring! Apply Now: Job Opportunities Special Events Twelve miles south of Santa Barbara, Carpinteria State Beach offers an iconic, diverse shoreline, featuring white sand and rock outcroppings. In addition to a beautiful beach, Carpinteria State Beach also hosts three potential event venues: Linden Field, the covered Ramada (picnic) areas, and a campfire center. Adjacent to the park, the City of Carpinteria offers a wide range of restaurants, breweries, and entertainment while still maintaining a small town feel. As the focal point of this quaint coastal community, the park provides excellent recreation options (swimming, surf fishing, tidepool exploring, and camping). Further downcoast, this park also manages a parking lot and the access trail to the international renowned surf spot, Rincon Point. Events are considered year-round except holidays. Weddings are permitted between Labor Day and Memorial Day and are not permitted in the busy summer months. Please submit an inquiry for the quickest response. For additional questions, contact Carp.SpecialEvents@parks.ca.gov or call (805) 684-7487 to speak with the Special Event Coordinator about your event. RV Rental Delivery Policy ATTENTION: Trailers may be rented and delivered to the park from 101 RV Rentals. This is the only business permitted for delivery of RVs in this state park. It is illegal to conduct business in a park area without a permit, contract, or other written agreement. Renting from a business other than 101 RV Rentals may leave you without accommodations as the RV/camping equipment may be turned away upon arrival at the park. 101 RV Rentals can be contacted at (805) 210-7391. Contact Information SPECIAL EVENTS: carp.specialevents@parks.ca.gov SCHOOL GROUPS: CarpinteriaSB.Interp@parks.ca.gov
