=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Helen - Athens Epidaurus Festival]
Written in the aftermath of the Athenians' crushing defeat at the Sicilian Expedition, Euripides' Helen is notable both for its anti-war qualities and its focus on virtues such as the power of oath and intelligence, both personified in the titular heroine. Drawing on the version of the myth created by lyrical poet Stesichorus instead of Homer's best-known version, Euripides portrays the ...
URL: https://aefestival.gr/festival_events/eleni/?lang=en

[Helen - Athens Epidaurus Festival]
A tragedy almost verging on comedy, Helen is now presented at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus in a National Theatre of Northern Greece production, directed by Vassilis Papavassiliou.
URL: https://aefestival.gr/festival_events/eleninational-theatre-of-northern-greece-vassilis-papavassiliou-helen/?lang=en

[Ancient Theater of Epidaurus - Eleni by Euripides, August 6th to 8th ...]
Drawing on the version of the myth created by lyrical poet Stesichorus instead of Homer's best-known version, Euripides portrays the Trojan War as a massacre committed for a phantom rather than a real woman. A tragedy almost verging on comedy, Helen is now presented at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus in a National Theatre of Northern Greece production, directed by Vassilis Papavassiliou.
URL: https://www.discovernafplio.gr/en/articles/epidaurus-festival/ancient-theater-epidaurus-eleni-euripides-august-6th-8th-2021

[Αthens Epidaurus Festival 2022: Helen | The Official Athens Guide]
There's a reason for this, of course: he wrote Helen in the aftermath of the Athenians' crushing defeat in the Sicilian Expedition of 415BC. Vassilis Papavassiliou directs this production by the National Theatre of Northern Greece at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus. With English subtitles.
URL: http://accessible.thisisathens.org/events/helen-athens-epidaurus-festival-2022

[Athens Epidaurus Festival - Wikipedia]
Athens - Epidaurus Festival is an annual arts festival that takes place in Athens and Epidaurus, from May to October. It is one of the most famous festivals in Greece. It is held every year during the summer months (Fridays and Saturdays in July and August), in part in the ancient theatre of Epidaurus, on the archaeological site of the Asclepion. [1] The festival includes musical, theatrical ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Athens_Epidaurus_Festival


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Helen - Athens Epidaurus Festival] ---
No content


--- [Helen - Athens Epidaurus Festival] ---
No content


--- [Ancient Theater of Epidaurus - Eleni by Euripides, August 6th to 8th ...] ---
Written in the aftermath of Athenians’ crushing defeat at the Sicilian Expedition, Euripides’ Helen is noted both for its anti-war qualities and its focus on virtues such as the power of oath and intelligence, both personified in the form of the titular heroine. Drawing on the version of the myth created by lyrical poet Stesichorus instead of Homer’s best-known version, Euripides portrays the Trojan War as a massacre committed for a phantom rather than a real woman. A tragedy almost verging on comedy, Helen is now presented at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus in a National Theatre of Northern Greece production, directed by Vassilis Papavassiliou. Performance dates Friday, August 6th 2021 Saturday, August 7th 2021 Sunday, August 8th 2021 Arrival time | Starting time 19:30 | 21:00 Venue Epidaurus - The famous ancient Τheater Contributors Translated by: Pantelis Boukalas, Directed by: Vassilis Papavassiliou, Dramaturgy - Collaborating director: Nikoleta Filosoglou, Set and costume design: Angelos Mentis, Musical composition: Angelos Triantafyllou, Choreography: Dimitris Sotiriou, Lighting design: Lefteris Pavlopoulos, Orchestration - Musical coaching: Yorgos Dousos, Musical coaching: Chrysa Toumanidou, Assistant to the director: Anna-Maria Iakovou, Assistant to the set and costume designer: Elli Nalmpanti, Assistant to the choreographer: Sofia Papanikandrou, Production coordinator: Athanasia Androni Actors Emily Koliandri (Helen), Themis Panou (Menelaus), Agoritsa Oikonomou (Theonoe), Giorgos Kafkas (Theoclymenus), Efi Stamouli (Old Woman), Dimitris Kolovos (First Messenger), Angelos Bouras, (Second Messenger), Dimitris Morfakidis (Teucer), Panagiotis Papaioannou, (Attendant) Nikolas Maragopoulos & Orestis Paliadelis (Dioscuri) Chorus Stavroula Arampatzoglou, Nefeli Anthopoulou, Natassa Daliaka, Eleni Giannousi, Electra Goniadou, Sofia Kalemkeridou, Egli Katsiki, Anna Kyriakidou, Marianna Pourega, Katerina Plexida, Fotini Timotheou, Chrysa Toumanidou, Loukia Vassiliou, Momo Vlachou, Chrysa Zafeiriadou Musicians on stage Yorgos Dousos (flute, clarinet, saxophone, kaval), Danis Koumartzis (double bass), Thomas Kostoulas (percussion), Pavlos Metsios (trumpet, electric guitar), Haris Papathanasiou (violin), Manolis Stamatiadis (piano, accordion) Tips All performances are played with Greek and English surtitles. For any inconvenience and delay to be avoided, due to the current Covid-19 health measures, you are advised to arrive 90 minutes before the performance's starting time. The theater's car park has plenty of spaces for cars and coaches. Audience buses to and from the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus are available. Ticketing - Box Office info Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus - box office operates Monday to Thursday 10:00-14:00 and on performance days (Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays) 10:30-21:00. Τ. +30 210-7234567 (Monday to Sunday 09:00-21:00). Purchase online: aefestival.gr E-mail: tickets@greekfestival.gr More information here Not permitted Entry into the theatre after the start of a performance, except during an interval. The attendance of children under the age of six. Smoking, and the consumption of food and drink inside the theater. The use of mobile phones during performances. Entry into the theater in high heels. Photography, with or without flash, and sound or video recording during a performance. The tipping of staff. Did you know that? The National Theatre of Northern Greece is one of the country’s largest theatre institutions. With its five indoor and two outdoor stages, plus the appearances it makes on tour and at festivals both in Greece and internationally, it has been a driving force on the cultural scene since 1961. The famous ancient Τheater of Epidaurus is located within the archaeological site of the Sanctuary of Asklepios, in the Argolis prefecture of Peloponnese. It is a half-hour drive from Nafplio and approximately two hours from Athens. For intercity bus services to the Ancient Theater especially for the performances, see timetables and tickets Here.


--- [Αthens Epidaurus Festival 2022: Helen | The Official Athens Guide] ---
Αthens Epidaurus Festival 2022: Helen What if the Trojan War did not happen over the love of a woman, but over the love of a ghost of one? In a sentence, that’s the main plot behind Euripides’ Helen, who decided to distance himself from Homer’s original work and talk about (or rather against) wars that happen for aught. There’s a reason for this, of course: he wrote Helen in the aftermath of the Athenians’ crushing defeat in the Sicilian Expedition of 415BC. Vassilis Papavassiliou directs this production by the National Theatre of Northern Greece at the Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus. With English subtitles. You can see our picks of this year's Athens Epidaurus Festival here. For the full programme head over to the festival's official website. Info - Price: €5-50 - Date: - - Time: 9:00 pm - The Ancient Theatre of Epidaurus, Epidaurus, 210 52 - +30 275 302 2026 - Website


--- [Athens Epidaurus Festival - Wikipedia] ---
Athens – Epidaurus Festival is an annual arts festival that takes place in Athens and Epidaurus, from May to October. It is one of the most famous festivals in Greece.
It is held every year during the summer months (Fridays and Saturdays in July and August), in part in the ancient theatre of Epidaurus, on the archaeological site of the Asclepion. The festival includes musical, theatrical and other cultural events. They include performances of tragedies by Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides, as well as surviving comedies by Aristophanes; some performances consist simply of revivals of ancient myths or contemporary plays written on the basis of ancient dramas.
