=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Theodore Gardelle (November 30, 1722 — April 4, 1761), Swiss painter ...]
There he gained great proficiency in the art He lived there studying and painting until 1750. Then he returned to his native place and practised his profession for some years. In 1756, he again went to Paris. In 1760, he went to England, where he was executed in Haymarket, London, for murdering his landlady Anne King.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/theodore.gardelle/1785282

[1761: Theodore Gardelle, artist | Executed Today]
Apr 4, 2009 · On this date in 1761, Swiss-born portrait miniaturist Theodore Gardelle was hanged for murdering his landlady. “We have to lament,” begins ...
URL: https://www.executedtoday.com/2009/04/04/1761-theodore-gardelle-artist/

[List of Swiss painters - Wikipedia]
Claudio Baccalà Silvia Bächli Augustin Meinrad Bächtiger Karl Ballmer Aimé Barraud François Barraud Franz Karl Basler-Kopp Auguste Baud-Bovy Ernst Baumann Fritz Baumann Ida Baumann Otto Baumberger Hans Bendel Hans Eduard von Berlepsch-Valendas Giuseppe Bernardazzi Emil Beurmann Diego Bianconi Heinrich Bichler Johann Jakob Biedermann Klaus Bietenholz Max Bill Edmond Bille Peter Birkhäuser ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Swiss_painters

[301 Moved Permanently]
301 Moved Permanently 301 Moved Permanently nginx
URL: https://www.artistsnetwork.com/art-history/stole-mona-lisa/

[Art for Everybody]
Thomas Kinkades was the most collected and despised painter of all time. After his shocking death his family discovers a vault of unseen paintings that reveal a complex artist whose life and work embody our divided America.
URL: https://www.artforeverybodyfilm.com/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Theodore Gardelle (November 30, 1722 — April 4, 1761), Swiss painter ...] ---
Background He was born in Geneva, where he studied portrait miniature painting. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. He was born in Geneva, where he studied portrait miniature painting. Having acquired its first rudiments, he went to Paris in 1744. There he gained great proficiency in the art He lived there studying and painting until 1750. Then he returned to his native place and practised his profession for some years. In 1756, he again went to Paris. In 1760, he went to England, where he was executed in Haymarket, London, for murdering his landlady Anne King.


--- [1761: Theodore Gardelle, artist | Executed Today] ---
On this date in 1761, Swiss-born portrait miniaturist Theodore Gardelle was hanged for murdering his landlady. “We have to lament,” begins our guide, “that the woman might not have met her death at his hands, had she allotted some discretion to the limits of her tongue — a weapon, we may call it, often goading a man to a frenzy of the mind, ending in horror.” In later years, she might have wielded a midriff. [Gardelle] was born at Geneva, a city which is famed for giving birth to great men, in both the arts and sciences. He chose the miniature style of painting, and having acquired its first rudiments, went to Paris, where he made great proficiency in the art. He then returned to his native place, and practised his profession for some years, with credit and emolument; but, being unhappy in his domestic concerns, he repaired to London, and took lodgings at Mrs. King’s, in Leicester-fields, in the year 1760. Gardelle’s version of the crime — long story short — is that he got into a tiff with said landlady, who stumbled when he shoved her and thereby fatally struck her head on the bedstead. Panicked, Gardelle hid the body and began disposing of it in pieces over the succeeding week, until the ongoing dismemberment was quite accidentally discovered by the almost terminally incurious servants. One reflection, upon reading this dreadful narrative, will probably rise in the mind of the attentive reader; the advantages of virtue with respect to our social connections, and the interest that others take in what befalls us. It does not appear that, during all the time Mrs. King was missing, she was enquired after by one relation or friend; the murder was discovered by strangers, almost without solicitude or enquiry; the murderer was secured by strangers, and by strangers the prosecution against him was carried on. But who is there of honest reputation, however poor, that could be missing a day, without becoming the subject of many interesting enquiries, without exciting solicitude and fears, that would have no rest till the truth was discovered, and the crime punished? Theodore Gardelle didn’t have the luxury of being so philosophical about it — but “was executed amidst the shouts and hisses of an indignant populace, in the Haymarket, near Panton Street, to which he was led by Mrs. King’s house, where the cart made a stop, and at which he just gave a look. His body was hanged in chains upon Hounslow-heath.” Part of the Themed Set: Selections from the Newgate Calendar. On this day.. - 2005: Six surprised Somalis - 1913: A day in the death penalty around the U.S. - 1902: Clinton Dotson, bad son - 1975: Pierre Galopin, hostage of Hissene Habre - 1809: Four by William Brunskill at Horsemonger Lane - 1895: William Lake - 1884: Henry Rose - 1205 or 1206: Jamukha, Genghis Khan's brother and rival - 1962: James Hanratty, the killer all along - 1994: Richard Beavers, hungry to die - 1693: Anne Palles, the last witch executed in Denmark - 1979: Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Prime Minister of Pakistan


--- [List of Swiss painters - Wikipedia] ---
List of Swiss painters Appearance A list of notable Swiss painters: A [edit]- Johann Ludwig Aberli - Otto Abt - René Acht - Hans Aeschbacher - Jacques-Laurent Agasse - Heinrich Altherr - Urs Amann - Cuno Amiet - Jost Amman - Werner Andermatt - Albert Anker - Dominique Appia - Dennis Armitage - Hans Asper - René Auberjonois B [edit]- Claudio Baccalà - Silvia Bächli - Augustin Meinrad Bächtiger - Karl Ballmer - Aimé Barraud - François Barraud - Franz Karl Basler-Kopp - Auguste Baud-Bovy - Ernst Baumann - Fritz Baumann - Ida Baumann - Otto Baumberger - Hans Bendel - Hans Eduard von Berlepsch-Valendas - Giuseppe Bernardazzi - Emil Beurmann - Diego Bianconi - Heinrich Bichler - Johann Jakob Biedermann - Max Bill - Edmond Bille - Peter Birkhäuser - Peter Birmann - Samuel Birmann - Johann Heinrich Bleuler - Johann Ludwig Bleuler - François Bocion - Arnold Böcklin - Karl Bodmer - Paul Bodmer - Walter Bodmer - Max Böhlen - Carlo Borer - Marius Borgeaud - Louise-Cathérine Breslau - Serge Brignoni - Arnold Brügger - Hans-Ulrich Brunner - Emanuel Büchel - Franz Bucher - Frank Buchser - Johann Balthasar Bullinger - Jenny Burckhardt - Johann Burger - Max Buri - Joseph Burkhardt-Born - Eugène Burnand - Carlo Antonio Bussi - Anton Bütler - Joseph Niklaus Bütler - Niklaus Bütler - Johann Rudolf Byss C [edit]- Alexandre Calame - Paul Camenisch - Gianfredo Camesi - Joseph Caspar - Luciano Castelli - Edouard Castres - Coghuf - Luca Antonio Colomba - Giovanni Battista Innocenzo Colombo - Mario Comensoli - Hans Coray - Aloïse Corbaz - Corinne Cuéllar-Nathan D [edit]- Helen Dahm - Heinrich Danioth - Paul Degen - Sandro del Prete - François Diday - Adolf Dietrich - Martin Disler - Martin Disteli - Willi Dreesen - Stéphane Ducret - Henri Dufaux E [edit]- Theo Eble - Ulla Engeberg Killias - Walter Enholtz - Charles l’Eplattenier - Ruth Erat - Hans Erni - André Evard F [edit]- Janika Fabrikant - Hans Falk - Helmut Federle - Franz Fedier - Hans Ulrich Fisch - Hans Fischer - Jakob Flach - Annemie Fontana - Sigmund Freudenberger - Ernst Frick - Hans Fries - Pia Fries - Otto Frölicher - Johann Heinrich Füssli G [edit]- Léon Gaud - Ferdinand Gehr - Franz Gertsch - Salomon Gessner - Alberto Giacometti - Augusto Giacometti - Giovanni Giacometti - Babeli Giezendanner - H. R. Giger - René Gilsi - Francesco Antonio Giorgioli - Charles Girardet - Fritz Glarner - Charles Gleyre - Theo Glinz - Carl Arnold Gonzenbach - Camille Graeser - Urs Graf der Ältere - Anton Graff - Eugène Grasset - Konrad Grob - Eduard Gubler - Max Gubler - Alis Guggenheim H [edit]- Stefan Haenni - Hedy Hahnloser-Bühler - Jakob Emanuel Handmann - Johannes Handschin - Jakob Häne - Eugen Hartung - Willi Hartung - Pierre Haubensak - Max Haufler - Franz Hegi - Georg Friedrich Heilmann - Joseph Heintz der Ältere - Andreas Henzen - Maria Herrmann-Kaufmann - Heinrich Herzig - David Hess - Ludwig Hess - Hermann Hesse - Charles Hindenlang - Hermann Hirzel - Ferdinand Hodler - Gottfried Honegger - Jean Huber Voltaire - Ernest Hubert - Alain Huck - Daniel Humair - Wilhelm Hummel - Alfonso Hüppi - Johannes Hüppi - Manfred Hürlimann - Britta Huttenlocher I [edit]J [edit]K [edit]- Max Kämpf - Adam Dario Keel - Carl Eugen Keel - Albert von Keller - Paul Klee - Rolf Knie - Max Kohler - Rudolf Koller - Franz Niklaus König - Ernst Kreidolf - Christina Krusi - Hans Krüsi L [edit]- Salomon Landolt - Pierre-Louis de La Rive - Le Corbusier - Hans Leu the Elder - Leo Leuppi - Alois Lichtsteiner - Ernst Linck - Carl August Liner - Carl Walter Liner - Walter Linsenmaier - Jean-Étienne Liotard - Carlo E. Lischetti - Verena Loewensberg - Paul Lohse - Urs Lüthi M [edit]- Niklaus Manuel - Barthélemy Menn - Youri Messen-Jaschin - Dölf Mettler - Johann Heinrich Meyer - Otto Meyer-Amden - Caroline Mezger - Elvezia Michel-Baldini - Werner Miller - Gottfried Mind - Louis Moilliet - Paul Monnier - Max von Moos - Otto Morach - Ernst Morgenthaler - Fritz Morgenthaler - Didier Mouron - Max von Mühlenen - Heinrich Anton Müller - Josef Felix Müller - Rudolf Münger O [edit]P [edit]- Edmond de Palézieux - Leta Peer - Alfred Heinrich Pellegrini - Alexandre Perrier - Jean Petitot - Niki de Saint Phalle - Celestino Piatti - Otto Pilny - Fritz Pümpin - Karl Pümpin R [edit]- Richard Ranft - Clara von Rappard - Karl Rauber - Joseph Reinhart - Maurice Reymond de Broutelles - Sigismund Righini - Louis Léopold Robert - Charles Rollier - Rüdisühli - Hermann Rüdisühli - Christoph Rütimann S [edit]- Claude Sandoz - Edouard-Marcel Sandoz - Hans Sandreuter - Johann Rudolph Schellenberg - Hermann Scherer - Hedwig Scherrer - Wilhelm Scheuchzer - Robert Schiess - Klaudia Schifferle - Erna Schillig - Alfons Schilling - Wilhelm Schmid - Gérard Ernest Schneider - Johann Robert Schürch - Carlos Schwabe - Albert Schweizer - Peter Schweri - Giovanni Segantini - Gregorius Sickinger - Guido Sigriste - Ota Šik - Caroline Sophie Sordet-Boissonnas - Louis Soutter - Jeronimus Spengler - Anita Spinelli - Adolf Stäbli - Otto Staiger - Karl Stauffer-Bern - Johann Gottfried Steffan - David Eduard Steiner - Eduard Stiefel - Tobias Stimmer - Ernst Stückelberg - Bernhard Studer - Frédéric Studer - Hans Sturzenegger - Max Sulzbachner T [edit]- Sophie Taeuber-Arp - Gaudenz Taverna - André Thomkins - Jean Tinguely - Anna Maria Tobler - Wolfgang-Adam Töpffer - Niele Toroni - Albert Trachsel - Anne Marie Trechslin - Johann Heinrich Troll - Otto Tschumi V [edit]- Giovanni Antonio Vanoni - Benjamin Vautier - Auguste Veillon - Egon von Vietinghoff - René Villiger - Julius Voegtli - Ludwig Vogel - Denise Voïta - Joseph Simon Volmar W [edit]- Andreas Walser - Karl Walser - Anna Waser - August Weckesser - Walter Wegmüller - Johann Caspar Weidenmann - Charlotte Weiss - Albert Welti - Albert J. Welti - Lisa Wenger - Marianne von Werefkin - Joseph Werner - Hans Beat Wieland - Walter Kurt Wiemken - Jean Willi - Uwe Wittwer - Emanuel Witz - Konrad Witz - Caspar Wolf - Theodor Wolf - Adolf Wölfli - Fritz Wucherer - Melchior Wyrsch - Franz Anatol Wyss - Bruno Weber


--- [301 Moved Permanently] ---
Who Stole the Mona Lisa? A Lineup of the Suspects in the Mona Lisa Art Heist The art whodunit that made the entire 20th century gasp! On August 21, 1911, the famed Mona Lisa was stolen off the walls of the Louvre. The scandal was called “the most colossal theft of modern times.” Newspapers worldwide covered the story. Sixty police agents were put on the case. To no avail. Two years of investigation proved fruitless. Plenty of suspects and leads, but no Mona. Can you guess who stole her? LEONARDO DA VINCI STOLE THE MONA LISA Nah, Leonardo is the Renaissance artist who painted this most famous portrait. Art historians dither on the specifics but roughly agree the Mona Lisa was created between 1503-1516, with years of time in between during which the artist abandoned work on the painting. It’s believed that Leonardo brought the portrait with him when he was invited to France by King Francis in 1516. And, he continued to hone his most famous muse there. KING FRANCIS I STOLE THE MONA LISA Nope, but Francis did invite the maker of La Joconde to visit his court and country in 1516. After Leonardo’s death in May 1519, the painting was bought by Francis for 4,000 écus. The Mona Lisa was hung in all the right places: the Château de Fontainebleau, Versailles and even in the bedroom of Napolean Bonaparte after the French Revolution. But it ended up in the Louvre, from which it was stolen in 1911. However, Francis’ acquisition of the painting does explain how the Italian Renaissance masterpiece ended up on French soil, to the consternation of some die-hard Italian nationalists…hint hint. LOUIS BÉROUD STOLE THE MONA LISA Not him either. Someone absconded with Mona on Aug. 21, but the theft wasn’t discovered until the next morning. Louis Béroud is actually the one who raised the hue and cry. He strolled into the gallery of the Louvre and was met, not with that enigmatic smile, but four iron pegs marking where the Mona Lisa should have hung. He alerted guards who initially assumed the painting had been taken off exhibit to be photographed for promotional purposes by the staff. Béroud followed up hours later. That’s when security discovered the painting was indeed missing. The Louvre closed for a week to investigate. Béroud’s persistence might have been on-point citizenship at work, but he also had a vested interest in the return of the Mona Lisa. He was painting his own version of the Leonardo masterpiece in situ on the walls of the Louvre’s salon and was likely looking to get his model restored to her rightful place so he could finish his homage. GUILLAUME APOLLINAIRE STOLE THE MONA LISA Not guilty. But on Sept. 7, 1911, writer and critic Guillaume Apollinaire was arrested and imprisoned on suspicion of the theft of the Mona Lisa and several other Egyptian figurines from the Louvre. At one time, Apollinaire called for the Louvre to be burned down, which probably didn’t endear him to the authorities. He was released a week later. But during his time in the slammer, he managed to implicate his friend Pablo Picasso in the theft. Thanks, buddy. Apollinaire was exonerated of all charges but it does turn out that one of his former assistants, Honoré Joseph Géry Pieret, was responsible for the theft of the Egyptian statuettes that had gone missing from the Louvre. PABLO PICASSO STOLE THE MONA LISA Not really, but he was in the right place — Paris — at the right time — 1911. Turns out Picasso was close friends with one of the suspects of the heist, Guillaume Apollinaire (said party mentioned above), who blubbered about Picasso to the police while being interrogated. Police followed up and brought young Pablo in for questioning. No surprise, given that Picasso had been involved in buying stolen art from the Louvre before! Naughty artist! But innocence will out and two years after the theft, when the true thief was caught red-handed, Picasso was fully exonerated. Whew! Close call, Pablo! VINCENZO PERUGGIA STOLE THE MONA LISA J’accuse! Correctly! Two years after the notorious gank of the Mona Lisa, the thief was caught trying to sell the priceless painting to an art dealer in Florence, Italy. Peruggia was a handyman and a former employee of the Louvre. The heist involved nothing more than him hiding in a broom closet until the museum closed. Then he sidled up to the legendary portrait, pulled it off the wall, slipped it under his coat and walked out the door. But did he act alone? EDUARDO DE VALFIERNO STOLE THE MONA LISA…AND YVES CHAUDRON FORGED SIX COUNTERFEITS OF HER Maybe. History paints Vincenzo Peruggia as an Italian nationalist whose most ardent wish was to see the artistic legacy of his Renaissance forefathers returned to native soil. The reality might be a tinge more corrupt. Peruggia is rumored to have been in the employ of Argentine hustler Eduardo de Valfierno, who was working with forger Yves Chaudron (whose identity has never been confirmed) on a scheme to create and sell six counterfeit copies of the Mona Lisa while the real version conveniently went missing. This account comes from an uncorroborated article published in the Saturday Evening Post in 1932 by journalist Karl Decker. Decker was known for his embellished style of reporting, so his credibility has been called into question. He claimed this story came to him from Valfierno on his deathbed. Questions still stand around the existence of Valfierno and Chaudron, who have never been identified, and the fact that the alleged six fake paintings have never surfaced. But how did Peruggia get caught? ALFREDO GERI AND GIOVANNI POGGI STOLE THE MONA LISA Actually, no, these two are the heroes of this tale. In December 1913, after two years of keeping the painting hidden in the false bottom of a trunk in his Paris flat, Peruggia was skittish and looking to offload Mona once and for all. He’d never heard from Valfierno after their initial agreement and decided to take matters into his own hands. He smuggled the painting to Italy. Then he attempted to sell the work to art dealer Alfredo Geri and Uffizi Gallery director Giovanni Poggi in Florence. Suspicious of the deal, one of the museum officials called the authorities. One irony about this art heist is that Peruggia was initially a suspect. The French police tossed his place looking for evidence in 1911 but never found a clue. Peruggia’d had brushes with crime before. Once for trying to rob a prostitute and another incident involving possession of a gun. His criminal past didn’t beef up his sentence for the Mona Lisa heist, however, which amounted to a slap on the wrist. He was jailed for six months and then pretty much hailed as a hero in Italy for trying to bring Mona back to the motherland. It’s also interesting to note that the Mona Lisa wasn’t really known worldwide until after the theft. It wasn’t until all the news coverage that went along with the heist that the status of the Mona Lisa started to reach legendary proportions. Want more Mona? Paint your own version of Mona Lisa, American Gothic, The Birth of Venus and other top masterpieces with Master Prints as your inspiration and guide. You’ve got the strokes of the masters to follow along with, so you can paint your masterpiece your way. Frame your finished work. Hang it in a place of pride or give it as a gift to someone who is going to love you forever. Enjoy! Courtney


--- [Art for Everybody] ---
Thomas Kinkade’s pastoral landscapes made him the most collected and despised painter of all time. After his shocking death, his family discovers a vault of unseen paintings that reveal a complex artist whose life and work embody our divided America. A New York Times Critic's Pick NOW A CRITICS CHOICE AWARD NOMINEE SPECIAL SCREENINGS Ojai, CA November 30, 2025 The Ojai Playhouse Q&A to follow
