=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tonya Harding - Wikipedia]
After climbing the ranks in the U.S. Figure Skating Championships between 1986 and 1989, Harding won the 1989 Skate America competition. She was the 1991 and 1994 U.S. champion (the latter title was later vacated), and 1991 World silver medalist.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tonya_Harding

[1989 U.S. Figure Skating Championships - Wikipedia]
The 1989 U.S. Figure Skating Championships took place at the CFG Bank Arena in Baltimore, Maryland from February 7th-12th. Medals were awarded in four colors: gold (first), silver (second), bronze (third), and pewter (fourth) in four disciplines – men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1989_U.S._Figure_Skating_Championships

[Tonya HARDING - Olympics.com]
Tonya Harding was a singles skater who is probably the most controversial figure skater in American history. Unlike most figure skaters, Harding was from a poor family, decidedly from the wrong side of the figure skating tracks.
URL: https://www.olympics.com/en/athletes/tonya-harding

[Tonya Harding scored the biggest victory of... - Los Angeles Times]
Oct 21, 1989 · Tonya Harding scored the biggest victory of her career, taking advantage of U.S. champion Jill Trenary’s problems to win the women’s title at Skate America in Indianapolis.
URL: https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-1989-10-21-sp-40-story.html

[Tonya Harding - 1989 US Nationals Original Program]
Mar 23, 2021 · After placing 4th in the compuslory figures, Tonya Harding moves up to 2nd overall at the 1989 US Figure Skating Championships after this original program placed 3rd in the segment (behind Trenary and Yamaguchi).
URL: https://www.goldenskate.com/forum/media/tonya-harding-1989-us-nationals-original-program.22598/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tonya Harding - Wikipedia] ---
Tonya Maxene Price (née Harding; born November 12, 1970) is an American former figure skater and boxer, and reality television personality.
Born in Portland, Oregon, Harding was raised by her mother, who enrolled her in ice skating lessons when Tonya was three years old. Harding spent much of her early life training, eventually dropping out of high school to devote her time to the sport. After climbing the ranks in the U.S. Figure Skating Championships between 1986 and 1989, Harding won the 1989 Skate America competition. She was the 1991 and 1994 U.S. champion (the latter title was later vacated), and 1991 World silver medalist. In 1991, she became the first American woman and the second woman in history (after Midori Ito) to successfully land a triple Axel in an international competition. Harding is a two-time Olympian and a two-time Skate America Champion.
In January 1994, Harding became embroiled in controversy when her ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, orchestrated an attack on her fellow U.S. skating rival Nancy Kerrigan. On March 16, 1994, Harding accepted a plea bargain in which she pled guilty to conspiracy to hinder prosecution. As a result of her involvement in covering up the assault, the United States Figure Skating Association banned her for life on June 30, 1994; she was stripped of her 1994 title.
From 2003 to 2004, Harding competed as a professional boxer. Her life has been the subject of many books, films, documentaries, and academic studies. In 2014, two television documentaries were made about Harding's life and skating career (Nancy & Tonya and The Price of Gold), inspiring Steven Rogers to write the film I, Tonya in 2017, in which Margot Robbie portrayed Harding. In 2018, she was a contestant on season 26 of Dancing with the Stars, finishing in third place. In 2019, she won season 16 of Worst Cooks in America.


--- [1989 U.S. Figure Skating Championships - Wikipedia] ---
The 1989 U.S. Figure Skating Championships took place at the CFG Bank Arena in Baltimore, Maryland from February 7th-12th. Medals were awarded in four colors: gold (first), silver (second), bronze (third), and pewter (fourth) in four disciplines – men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing – across three levels: senior, junior, and novice.
The event determined the U.S. teams for the 1989 World Championships.


--- [Tonya HARDING - Olympics.com] ---
Tonya Harding was a singles skater who is probably the most controversial figure skater in American history. Unlike most figure skaters, Harding was from a poor family, decidedly from the wrong side of the figure skating tracks. She hunted and fished, was an accomplished auto mechanic, played pool, smoked cigarettes, and was completely outside the skating establishment. But she started skating at a local rink, and her athletic ability made her a great jumper, one of the best in women’s skating history. In 1987, Harding had her first major podium with second at Skate America. At that competition, her jumping ability came to the fore, as she was the first woman to perform a triple axel in the short program, the first woman to do two triple axels in a program, and the first female to perform a triple axel combination (with a double toe loop). In 1989 she was third at the US Championships, but her big breakthrough year was 1990 when she won Skate America and the Nations Cup. In 1991 she won the US title and was second at the World Championships and the NHK Trophy. Harding was fourth at the 1992 Winter Olympics and heading into the 1994 season, her big rival was Nancy Kerrigan, a much more polished, traditional skater, but one without Harding’s jumping ability. Beautiful, quiet, and classy, Kerrigan started to reap the rewards of the more traditional skating world, and received several commercial endorsements. Harding was getting none of this and she saw one way out. To get endorsements and money, she had to win the gold medal in Lillehammer and to her that meant eliminating Kerrigan as a competitor. At the time, Harding was then married to Jeff Gillooly. Gillooly contacted a friend, Shawn Eckardt, asking how a hit could be arranged on Kerrigan, disabling her for the Olympics. Eckardt eventually contacted Derrick Smith, who hired his nephew, Shane Stant, who agreed to attack Kerrigan and injure her leg. The group finally settled on attacking Kerrigan at the US Nationals in Detroit. Shortly before the competition, Kerrigan came off the ice after a training session, when a large man assaulted her with a solid-metal baton, hitting her just above the knee. The assailant was Stant, who escaped by running out of the arena to a getaway car. Kerrigan collapsed, crying out, “Why? Why me?” She could not skate at the Nationals. Two days later, Tonya Harding won the 1994 US Nationals and qualified for the Olympic team. The US had only two spots for the ladies’ event in Lillehammer. The second spot could go to Michelle Kwan, who finished second to Harding. But the US figure skating authorities held the spot open for Kerrigan, if she could show that she could recover in time for the Winter Olympics. Kwan graciously stepped aside and Kerrigan did recover in time to be named to the Winter Olympic team. Eventually Harding and her mob was caught, and she would be fined and sentenced to community service and she has had a difficult life since that episode. At Lillehammer, a media frenzy surrounded the women’s figure skating because of the “Kardigan Saga.” In Norway, Kerrigan skated beautifully, but lost out by the narrowest of margins to Ukrainian Oksana Bayul, earning a silver medal. Harding continued to be controversial in Lillehammer. In the free skate, she started but then noticed a problem with a skate. Approaching the judges in tears, she showed them her loose lace, requesting a re-skate, which she was granted. Harding finished eighth, but the lace incident was later famously re-created in a Seinfeld episode. After the 1994 fiasco, Harding’s life has been difficult. Ostracized and banned by the figure skating establishment she could never skate professionally. To make money, she became a professional boxer, with a career record of three wins and three losses in 2003-04, and later was an announcer for TruTV. Athlete Olympic Results Content You may like


--- [Tonya Harding scored the biggest victory of... - Los Angeles Times] ---
Tonya Harding scored the biggest victory of... - Share via Tonya Harding scored the biggest victory of her career, taking advantage of U.S. champion Jill Trenary’s problems to win the women’s title at Skate America in Indianapolis. Harding, 18, of Portland, Ore., was third at the American championships last February, behind Trenary and Kristi Yamaguchi. But Harding won both the original program and free skate in Indianapolis. Trenary, of Colorado Springs, Colo., finished second, with Simone Lang of East Germany third. Viktor Petrenko of the Soviet Union, the 1988 Olympic bronze medalist, won the original program portion of the men’s competition. Petrenko edged world champion Kurt Browning of Canada and U.S. champion Chris Bowman. Natalia Mishkutenok and Arthur Dmitriev of the Soviet Union won the pairs, taking the short and long programs. American champions Kristi Yamaguchi and Rudi Galindo were second.


--- [Tonya Harding - 1989 US Nationals Original Program] ---
No content
