=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Former Hillsong pastors say they were threatened by Brian Houston to ...]
Apr 6, 2022 · Since then, nine Hillsong branches in the US have broken away from the church. Now, the former lead pastors of the Kyiv and Moscow churches say they too attempted to break away from the church in ...
URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-04-06/hillsong-property-empire-financial-control-over-churches/100969258

[How Scandals Drove Hillsong to Lose its American Churches - The New ...]
Mar 29, 2022 · In the last two weeks, Hillsong has lost nine of its 16 American church campuses, a swift and stunning decline for one of the world’s largest and most influential evangelical churches.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/29/us/hillsong-church-scandals.html

[Cult News 101 - CultNEWS101 Library: Hillsong, Once a Leader of ...]
Another branch, Hillsong Kansas City, which launched in 2019, quietly separated from Hillsong about two weeks ago and relaunched as Kingdom City Church. The press office for the global church said the two parties "made a mutual decision to separate" before Mr. Houston's departure.
URL: https://www.cultnews101.com/2022/04/hillsong-once-leader-of-christian-cool.html

[Hillsong Church loses another US campus as San Francisco location ...]
The number of Hillsong Church campuses in America has now fallen to just five after leaders in the global Australia-based megachurch announced Sunday that Hillsong San Francisco â led by pastors Brenden and Jacqui Brown â is separating from the Hillsong brand and will be independently run under a new name.
URL: https://www.christiantoday.com/news/hillsong-church-loses-another-us-campus-as-san-francisco-location-separates

[As Three U.S. Churches Split from Hillsong, Phoenix Pastor Calls Out ...]
In the wake of the resignation of Hillsong founder Brian Houston, three large U.S. churches are separating from the scandal-plagued global church—Hillsong Phoenix, Hillsong Atlanta, and Hillsong Kansas City. In a scathing indictment of Hillsong's Global Board, Hillsong Phoenix Pastor Terry Crist on Sunday blasted the board for its heavy-handed control and secrecy, saying some members ...
URL: https://julieroys.com/three-us-churches-split-hillsong-pastor-calls-out-global-board/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Former Hillsong pastors say they were threatened by Brian Houston to ...] ---
Former Hillsong pastors say they were threatened by Brian Houston to hand over their church and assets Two former European pastors have accused Hillsong co-founder Brian Houston and the church's general manager of sending threatening emails during a dispute over the transfer of their church, cash, and assets to Hillsong Australia. Key points: - A 7.30 investigation has found Hillsong expanded its property portfolio partly by taking financial control over other churches - Hillsong also keeps some of its Australian assets separate from church activities using a web of interlinked charities and trusts - Hillsong boasts more than 120 churches across 30 countries Zhenya and Vera Kasevich led the congregations of Hillsong Kyiv and Hillsong Moscow for two decades. They have spoken to 7.30 for the first time about the circumstances behind their sudden departure from the megachurch. It comes as the Pentecostal juggernaut faces one of its worst crises since its establishment in the early 1980s. Last month, Hillsong's Sydney-based global pastor Brian Houston resigned after the church revealed it had received complaints from two women about his behaviour. Since then, nine Hillsong branches in the US have broken away from the church. Now, the former lead pastors of the Kyiv and Moscow churches say they too attempted to break away from the church in 2014. They say they ultimately chose to hand over their churches and assets after Brian Houston threatened to open a rival Hillsong church in Kyiv. Documents signed by Hillsong Australia general manager George Aghajanian show that Hillsong Church Ltd requested the Kasevichs make a "voluntary donation" of the proceeds of the sale of a property, as well as over $US230,000 in cash. "I was in an impossible situation,"Zhenya Kasevich said. "No matter what decision you make, you lose." At that time, the Kasevichs were planning to emigrate to the United States and were in the process of applying for US residency. Hillsong had agreed to assist them in dealing with US immigration. In one email obtained by 7.30, George Aghajanian writes that he "can make things very difficult" for them "with the American authorities". In another email, Brian Houston warns that Vera and Zhenya Kasevich "have a lot to fear" and that his general manager has "a lot of useful information for the US embassy" about the former Hillsong Kyiv pastors. "Basically [Brian Houston] said ... 'This church is mine. I will make your life small. I will squash it,'" Vera Kasevich said. Brian Houston told 7.30 in an email that the Kasevichs' account of the takeover of Hillsong Kyiv and Moscow was "a complete fantasy", and that he made no threats regarding the US embassy. The Kasevichs said they were finally free to speak out about their ordeal because their US residency had been secured and they no longer felt intimidated by Hillsong's Australian leaders. "We were quiet for eight full years … and now we are safe,"Zhenya Kasevich said. He said the aim of the takeover by the church's Sydney head office was "to get the assets of [Hillsong] Ukraine into their own hands". 'A voracious appetite for money': Growing the property empire A 7.30 investigation has uncovered how the Sydney-based Pentecostal church has built a property empire, partly by taking financial control over other churches in Australia and globally. The first takeover occurred in 2009, when Brisbane-based Garden City Christian Church merged with Hillsong. In the process, Hillsong acquired properties and assets valued at $12 million at the time. Elsewhere in Australia, in 2013 and 2014, two churches in Victoria decided to merge with Hillsong, with three properties transferred to Hillsong. One of those properties was repurposed as a luxury rental. In 2015, a Gold Coast church agreed to merge with Hillsong, transferring ownership and the mortgage on its Upper Coomera church building. A year later, two churches in Darwin valued at more than $2 million were also transferred to Hillsong. In 2020, a church hall at Joondalup in Western Australia — worth an estimated $2.5 million, with a small mortgage owing — was handed over to Hillsong. As a registered charity, Hillsong is not required to pay taxes such as stamp duty on any real estate that it acquires. A previous congregant from one of the churches that merged with Hillsong has told 7.30 that he never supported the move. Lance Goodall, who attended Brisbane's Garden City Church, said a vote of church members at the time decided overwhelmingly to install Brian Houston as their senior pastor, but he felt that the discussion at the time glossed over some important questions. "Everyone was encouraged to consider [the merger] as being the best possible choice for the church going forward,"he said. "It was perplexing, to be honest with you." Garden City Church eventually transferred the ownership of more than a dozen Brisbane properties to a Hillsong charity, with no money changing hands. Lance Goodall says he was always sceptical about Hillsong's motivation for merging with Garden City. "One of the key objectives in the takeover by Hillsong is the acquisition of property and assets," he said. However, it's not only properties that Hillsong acquires at no cost — 7.30 tracked down a church whose funds ended up under Hillsong control. Jaime San Martin, a previous assistant pastor at the Botany Spanish Church in Sydney in the early 2000s, said when his church joined the "Hillsong family" the church had to transfer all of its funds to a Hillsong account. "They controlled everything," Mr San Martin told 7.30. Mr San Martin had helped seal an agreement with Hillsong which he hoped would help his small congregation with administration and pastoral duties. But ultimately, the relationship turned out to be "just a financial thing", he said. "We were having difficulties accessing our own funds," Mr San Martin said. "[Hillsong] were beginning to show signs of having a voracious appetite for money." Mr San Martin's church separated from Hillsong in 2002. Hillsong's expansion into the US In 2010, Hillsong established its first campus in the United States, and has since expanded to 16 locations. Since then, Texas-based private investigator Barry Bowen has tracked Hillsong's property expansion across the US. He told 7.30 that it's highly unusual for a charity to grow so quickly. Mr Bowen works for the Trinity Foundation, which is dedicated to investigating church fraud. While he didn't find fraudulent activity, he did find a large number of properties that Hillsong owns across three US states. "It owns at least three condominiums in New York City. It owns a $US3.5 million home in California," he said. "When I searched in Arizona, I discovered 31 properties. If they don't sell any of those assets in the next year, it's expected to appreciate to over $40 million." In Australia, 7.30 found that some of Hillsong's biggest assets are separated from the church's activities through its use of a web of interlinked charities and trusts. Mr Bowen said he identified a similar strategy in the US, involving dozens of legal entities which he argues creates a firewall between the church and its properties. According to Mr Bowen, this corporate structure means potential claimants in any litigation against Hillsong may have a hard time recovering any funds. "If a victim sues the church, the church does not have major property assets," he said. "The church is limited in what it can pay for a judgement. This protects the church financially from large lawsuits." Brian Houston 'drawn to success' From their new home in the US state of Florida, Zhenya and Vera Kasevich say their first church started as a small congregation in 1992, just as the fledgling independent nation of Ukraine was emerging from the collapse of the Soviet empire. Hillsong Sydney sent an Australian pastor and some financial support to help them get established, and they named their church Hillsong, despite remaining independent. The Kasevichs say that as the congregation in Kyiv grew in 2008, Brian Houston developed a growing interest in their church. "He is drawn to success," said Vera Kasevich. "Our church budget in Ukraine was almost $1 million a year, only from income from [donations]." Mr Kasevich told 7.30 that he remembered having to pay large sums for guest speakers to attend a Hillsong conference in Kyiv. "We had to pay $13,000 for first class tickets from the USA to Ukraine,"he said. "We could not look at our poor people's eyes and tell them we are using church money for our benefit and our luxurious life. So when we saw this, we started to raise questions." As tensions rose, they claim Brian Houston began to challenge their independence, and that in 2014, he gave them an ultimatum — either stand aside or Hillsong would set up a rival church in Kyiv. To prevent the congregation from being split up, Vera and Zhenya Kasevich agreed to leave the church. The couple say they were asked to stay away from any church events and this "completely cut" their relationship with other church members who they described as their "only family". "They cut our emails, they cut our database, they cut us from the server," Vera Kasevich said. The Kasevichs were asked to sign a non-disclosure agreement with Hillsong which required them to never attend any service at Hillsong Kyiv or Hillsong Moscow, and not to directly contact Hillsong's leadership, its staff, or key volunteers. The agreement, obtained by 7.30, was signed by Hillsong's general manager George Aghajanian, but the Kasevichs didn't agree to its terms and refused to sign it. "They excommunicated us," Vera Kasevich said. The couple say they are speaking out now in the hope that others with similar experiences feel heard. "We are not afraid to tell the truth, and we want other people who are victims to have a voice,"Vera Kasevich said. Brian Houston has denied the Kasevichs' claims. He said in an email that Hillsong provided financial support to Hillsong Kyiv over many years, and that he and his wife visited the Kyiv church on many occasions. 7.30 sent a list of detailed questions to Hillsong Australia, but it did not provide a response. Watch this story on 7.30 tonight on ABC TV and ABC iview.


--- [How Scandals Drove Hillsong to Lose its American Churches - The New ...] ---
Supported by Hillsong, Once a Leader of Christian Cool, Loses Footing in America Amid a series of crises, including the resignation of its leader, the evangelical powerhouse has shed more than half its American churches in just a few weeks. Terry Crist, a fifth-generation pastor in Phoenix, joined the global megachurch Hillsong in part because of what he describes as its distinctly joyful approach to church life: Hillsong was an institution where leaders seemed “light and free,” offering a church experience that attracted tens of thousands of people around the world. Starting in Phoenix, Mr. Crist eventually brought six churches in two states into the Hillsong fold. Last week, he took them out. “We cannot continue in our global family, as much as we love it,” Mr. Crist told his congregation in an emotional sermon on Sunday, citing, among other reasons, the recent resignation of Hillsong’s global leader under a haze of scandal. “I am heartbroken.” In the last two weeks, Hillsong has lost nine of its 16 American church campuses, a swift and stunning decline for one of the world’s largest and most influential evangelical churches. Just a few years ago, Hillsong was the leading edge of cool Christianity, a quickly expanding network that appealed to young people and city dwellers with energetic, stylish preachers and an upbeat atmosphere. Hillsong translated the charismatic church experience, which emphasizes miracles and personal encounters with the Holy Spirit, for a hip, upscale audience. Justin Bieber and the N.B.A. star Kevin Durant attended services; one of the church’s worship bands won a Grammy Award and the church produced soaring anthems that became staples in smaller churches that imitated its sounds, style, and Instagram-friendly aesthetic. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Cult News 101 - CultNEWS101 Library: Hillsong, Once a Leader of ...] ---
Amid a series of crises, including the resignation of its leader, the evangelical powerhouse has shed more than half its American churches in just a few weeks Ruth Graham New York Times March 29, 2022 Terry Crist, a fifth-generation pastor in Phoenix, joined the global megachurch Hillsong in part because of what he describes as its distinctly joyful approach to church life: Hillsong was an institution where leaders seemed "light and free," offering a church experience that attracted tens of thousands of people around the world. Starting in Phoenix, Mr. Crist eventually brought six churches in two states into the Hillsong fold. Last week, he took them out. "We cannot continue in our global family, as much as we love it," Mr. Crist told his congregation in an emotional sermon on Sunday, citing, among other reasons, the recent resignation of Hillsong's global leader under a haze of scandal. "I am heartbroken." In the last two weeks, Hillsong has lost nine of its 16 American church campuses, a swift and stunning decline for one of the world's largest and most influential evangelical churches. Just a few years ago, Hillsong was the leading edge of cool Christianity, a quickly expanding network that appealed to young people and city dwellers with energetic, stylish preachers and an upbeat atmosphere. Hillsong translated the charismatic church experience, which emphasizes miracles and personal encounters with the Holy Spirit, for a hip, upscale audience. Justin Bieber and the N.B.A. star Kevin Durant attended services; one of the church's worship bands won a Grammy Award and the church produced soaring anthems that became staples in smaller churches that imitated its sounds, style, and Instagram-friendly aesthetic. Now, Hillsong's U.S. presence is in collapse. Its remaining U.S. locations are in the Northeast and in California, meaning Hillsong no longer has a major presence between the coasts. Hillsong Church and Its Scandals The megachurch, known for the celebrities and N.B.A. stars among its followers, has been enveloped in a series of image-tarnishing crises. · When It Was Cool: Hillsong was founded in Australia and became a global phenomenon capitalizing on trends in Christian youth culture. · A Pastor's Downfall: Carl Lentz, Hillsong's leader in New York City, helped raise the church's profile — until worldly temptations got in the way. · The Leader's Resignation: Brian Houston, who founded the charismatic church, stepped down after he was accused of breaching the church's code of conduct. · Losing Footing: Upheaval at Hillsong has caused it to lose many of its American church campuses — a stunning decline for the once influential institution. The departures are partly the fallout from a series of crises — most recently the sudden resignation of its charismatic founder — that have left the church with a tarnished reputation and instability that pastors say they found increasingly difficult to endure. "I can't think of a church in the English-speaking Western world with as broad a global reach as Hillsong," said Ed Stetzer, the executive director of the Wheaton College Billy Graham Center in Illinois. The current upheaval at the church "is a very big deal and will have ramifications not just for Hillsong, but for contemporary evangelism around the world," he said. The church was already grappling with in-house tensions and a damaged brand when its Australian founder and global leader, Brian Houston, resigned on March 23 after an internal investigation found that he behaved inappropriately toward two women. Mr. Houston had stepped away from all ministry duties in January, explaining that he needed to concentrate on fighting a criminal charge of concealing child sexual abuse committed by his late father, who was also a pastor. The church's investigation found that Mr. Houston sent "inappropriate text messages" to one staff member, and that several years later he spent time alone in a hotel room with a woman who attended the church's annual conference in Sydney. In a statement to The New York Times, the press office for the church said there have been no other complaints about Mr. Houston's behavior. The church has blamed medication and alcohol for Mr. Houston's actions. Mr. Houston has not publicly commented on his resignation. He could not be immediately reached for comment. Phil Dooley, the church's interim global leader, responded to some questions in an email through the church press office. In the email, Mr. Dooley said Mr. Houston's resignation came as "a tremendous surprise to many members of our community." The church press office did not respond to questions about whether Mr. Houston would receive a severance package or any future financial compensation from the church. The press office also declined to say whether Mr. Houston's wife, Bobbie, whose title was also Global Senior Pastor, remained employed by the church. On Thursday, a day after Mr. Houston's resignation, the streaming service Discovery+ released a three-part documentary, "Hillsong: A Megachurch Exposed." The documentary depicts the megachurch as a toxic institution obsessed with image, control and growth at all costs. It features interviews with critics, former employees and members, and a woman who has said she had a monthslong affair with Carl Lentz, at the time the celebrity lead pastor of Hillsong's East Coast branches. The press office for the church said in an emailed statement that the documentary's portrait of Hillsong is "almost unrecognizable" to the church community. Mr. Dooley, the interim leader, said in an email to The Times through the church press office that he has been "talking with members of our team around the world in what seems like a nonstop conversation" since the revelations of Mr. Houston's behavior. He described the crisis as a challenging and emotional time for both members and leaders. "This difficult season has sparked conversations that we should have been having as a church for a very long time," he said. He said the church is reviewing its policies and procedures to "provide both health and accountability for leaders." Hillsong exercises some control over the financial operations of each member church, though congregations set their own budgets. Churches also pass on 5 percent of the contributions they receive to the global church. In return, they receive organizational and teaching resources, and what was at one time a straightforwardly valuable association with one of the most recognizable evangelical churches in the world. For some leaders of local Hillsong branches, the baggage has become too burdensome to be worth the benefits of affiliation. Last week, the lead pastor of Hillsong Atlanta, Sam Collier, emailed his church to inform them that he was withdrawing his church from Hillsong in the wake of "consistent media attacks, slander, and accusations" against Hillsong — some of which, he acknowledged, were true. "All the challenges and the speculation and the scandal and the articles and all of the above, it got to a point where the people in our church just did not want to deal with it anymore," Mr. Collier said in an interview. His hiring as Hillsong's first Black lead pastor was announced about a week before the news of Mr. Lentz's misconduct became public in 2020, meaning his entire tenure at the church has been clouded by scandal emanating from Hillsong entities far from Atlanta. Sunday's service was the last for Hillsong Atlanta. "We believe the Lord is calling us to move into the next season," Mr. Collier told his congregation. Mr. Collier is launching a new church on Easter Sunday, and expects much of his Hillsong congregation to migrate there. The press office for Hillsong said there were no plans to reestablish Hillsong Atlanta. Another branch, Hillsong Kansas City, which launched in 2019, quietly separated from Hillsong about two weeks ago and relaunched as Kingdom City Church. The press office for the global church said the two parties "made a mutual decision to separate" before Mr. Houston's departure. A person who answered the phone at Kingdom City last week said the church had no comment. Hillsong's website says 150,000 people attend services weekly in 30 countries, but that estimate was taken before the pandemic. The press office said an accurate attendance count is not possible because of pandemic restrictions in some countries, and emphasized the church's longtime focus, heightened during the pandemic, on online participation. Mr. Houston and his wife, Bobbie, are towering figures in Australia. The church grew for decades as part of the Australian branch of the Assemblies of God, a Pentecostal denomination. The church offered original music with high production values — sometimes performed in actual concert venues. Mr. Houston once instructed pastors in Australia that a Hillsong sermon "leaves people feeling better about themselves than when they came in." Pentecostalism, a charismatic movement, often features practices like speaking in tongues and faith healing. Hillsong took a more accessible approach. Always attuned to mass appeal, the church accentuated personal encounters with God, often through music. Hillsong became its own denomination in 2018. In 2020, the church's relationship with money, sex, and celebrity came under renewed scrutiny when Mr. Houston fired Mr. Lentz for "leadership issues and breaches of trust, plus a recent revelation of moral failures." Mr. Lentz, a one-time mentor of Mr. Bieber and a celebrity in his own right, confessed that he had been unfaithful to his wife and withdrew from public life. For Mr. Crist, leaving Hillsong was the culmination of several years of doubts about the institution. He objected a few years ago, he said, when a global church restructuring disbanded his board of local leaders and put him directly under the authority of the Australia-based global board. And he bristled when he and other lead pastors were asked to sign noncompete and non-disparagement agreements in the wake of the scandal in the East Coast branches. He never signed. The church press office described the agreements as standard elements of their general contracts with church leaders. "This decision wasn't arrived at lightly, and it was made calculating the significant cost," Mr. Crist said in an interview, mentioning the possibility for disillusionment and pain. But "anyone who has been victimized in our church needs to be seen and heard." Mr. Crist expects to begin holding services June 1 under a new name to be determined. In his sermon on Sunday, Mr. Crist called for an internal investigation into Hillsong's global board, to make the findings of that investigation public, and to purge any board members "who have protected the institution and not the people." Ruth Graham is a Dallas-based national correspondent covering religion, faith and values. She previously reported on religion for Slate. @publicroad https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/29/us/hillsong-church-scandals.html


--- [Hillsong Church loses another US campus as San Francisco location ...] ---
(CP) The number of Hillsong Church campuses in America has now fallen to just five after leaders in the global Australia-based megachurch announced Sunday that Hillsong San Francisco — led by pastors Brenden and Jacqui Brown — is separating from the Hillsong brand and will be independently run under a new name. Hillsong Church Global Senior Pastor Phil Dooley joined Hillsong California Lead Pastor Sam Lopez in making the announcement to their followers on Sunday. "After much prayer and thoughtful consideration, we're announcing that Brenden and Jacqui Brown will be taking on the leadership of our church community in San Francisco as a separate church, so separating from what has been part of Hillsong California," Dooley told the Hillsong California community in a remote broadcast. "We believe the time is right for this. This is an exciting season for the Browns and for our church in San Francisco, and we want to say how much we love Brenden and Jacqui, and we value their dedication, their sacrifice, and their commitment to pastoring and leading the Hillsong San Francisco community," he added. Dooley's announcement marks the loss of the 11th of the church's 16 campuses that previously operated in the U.S. since a series of scandals erupted amid the pandemic, such as the firing of former Hillsong NYC Lead Pastor Carl Lentz in November 2020 over "leadership issues" and moral failures, including being unfaithful to his wife, Laura. Some of the abuses were the subject of a documentary called "Hillsong: A Megachurch Exposed" on Discovery Plus. The Christian Post also published details from a leaked report highlighting accusations of abuses at Hillsong NYC under Lentz's reign. The allegations included, among other things, the alleged mishandling of incidents of consensual or non-consensual sexual interaction between church leaders and congregants, staff volunteers or non-churchgoers. In his remarks to members of Hillsong California, Pastor Lopez said the San Francisco church's separation had been under discussion for about two years, and the Browns are simply following God's call on their life with a "fresh vision" with Hillsong's blessing. Come next week, Lopez and the Browns said Hillsong San Francisco's new name will be revealed. "In my conversations with a couple of people in our church, I'm starting to realize that this isn't very normal. ... The tone I keep getting is like, 'So what happened?' And let me tell you, nothing happened," Lopez insisted. "We have an incredible couple there. They have a vision for it. God has called them. God has asked them to take a step of faith. We're backing it 100% and going absolutely, let's do it. That is the extent of it," he said. "And then the response is usually like, 'That's too good to be true. What really happened.' And I go, 'That's actually what happened.' That's genuinely the full truth. We're just excited. And part of my job is not to keep and to hoard and to try to build a little empire. My job is to see especially our staff step into the call of God on their life." In a statement on Instagram Monday, the Hillsong San Francisco leaders, who have served the Evangelical megachurch network for 24 years, acknowledged that they will be pursuing "something fresh and full of purpose." "God has been faithful in every step of our journey, and we believe He's leading us into something fresh and full of purpose. While our name is changing, our heart remains the same — to love people and connect them to Jesus," they wrote. "We are so grateful for our @hillsong Church family, whose faith and investment have laid the foundation for this next season. A special thank you to our Global Senior pastors @philldooley_ and @lucindadooley , California Lead Pastors @samlopez and @courtneylopez , and the Global Board for their leadership, love, and support. Join us next Sunday as we reveal the new name of our church and unpack the vision for what's ahead! We can't wait to step into this new season together."


--- [As Three U.S. Churches Split from Hillsong, Phoenix Pastor Calls Out ...] ---
In the wake of the resignation of Hillsong founder Brian Houston, three large U.S. churches are separating from the scandal-plagued global church—Hillsong Phoenix, Hillsong Atlanta, and Hillsong Kansas City. In a scathing indictment of Hillsong’s Global Board, Hillsong Phoenix Pastor Terry Crist on Sunday blasted the board for its heavy-handed control and secrecy, saying some members “have protected the institution and not the people” in their churches. This included forcing senior pastors to sign non-disclosures and non-compete agreements, Crist said, and refusing to release the results of Hillsong’s independent investigation into alleged misconduct at its New York City location. But according to Crist, the main bone of contention between him and Hillsong Global was the Global Board’s refusal to allow Hillsong Phoenix to establish a local board to govern the church, rather than submitting to Global Board governance. “We wanted to continue with returning governance and accountability, but even continuing with the banner ‘Hillsong Phoenix’ for many reasons, including our love, our deep love for Hillsong College,” Crist said. “Sadly, the board refused our request. And I was told this last week, it is—quote—’all or nothing.’” Your tax-deductible gift supports our mission of reporting the truth and restoring the church. Donate $50 or more to The Roys Report this month, and you can elect to receive “Restory Your Life: How Jesus Reframes Your Past, Rewrites Your Present, and Redefines Your Future” by Mary DeMuth, click here. Crist also pastors satellite Hillsong locations in three Arizona cities (Mesa, Scottsdale, and Tucson), and another in Las Vegas. It is unclear at this moment whether those locations will leave Hillsong, as well. Hillsong Phoenix also serves as a campus of Hillsong College. The legal and financial steps to split from Hillsong were not outlined during the service. The Roys Report has reached out to Crist for clarification on these matters but has not heard back. Similar to Hillsong Phoenix, Hillsong Atlanta and Hillsong Kansas City have announced their intentions to leave the global church. The churches plan to relaunch and rebrand under new names. Relaunches planned for Easter Sunday Hillsong Phoenix has not yet announced its rebranded identity, but two other former Hillsong churches have. On Sunday, Hillsong Atlanta Pastor Sam Collier announced that his church will rebrand as Story Church and officially relaunch on Easter Sunday. “Same people, same goodness, new name,” Collier is quoted as saying in news reports. “We want you to be a part.” Hillsong Global Senior Pastor Phil Dooley offered a video message supporting the Atlanta pastor and his wife, despite their church splitting from Hillsong. “I just want to say, we love Sam and Toni Collier,” Dooley said in a video on Facebook, which was also played during Sunday services. “We just want to give you guys our absolute blessing for the next season that you feel to step into . . . From us to you, God bless you.” The website and social profiles for the former Hillsong Kansas City have been rebranded as Kingdom City Church as of March 16, too. A relaunch is set for Easter Sunday. Kingdom City posted a video, stating its mission is “Building people who bring heaven to earth, hearts fully alive to Christ. Planted in the house of God, bringing hope to the world.” In recent days Hillsong Kansas City and Hillsong Atlanta have disappeared from the Hillsong USA website listing. However, Hillsong Phoenix (along with its satellite Arizona locations) and Hillsong Las Vegas are still listed as of Tuesday, with Crist and his wife noted as lead pastors. The Roys Report reached out to all the churches or their pastors, asking about their transitions, but did not hear back. We also reached out to Hillsong USA but did not hear back. Phoenix pastor: Hillsong board has lost church’s confidence Crist signaled his distrust of Hillsong Global, and dismay over revelations of founder Brian Houston’s misconduct, in a message on March 20. The Phoenix pastor said that Hillsong churches have been “struggling across the planet with shock and shame.” He recounted a recent conversation with Houston, who had assured him in a phone call that Hillsong Church has never covered up sexual assault and that Houston has never committed adultery. But Crist also told the church that Houston had been less than forthcoming. “I found out the following day that, while we believed those answers to be true, there was a story that was about to break that Pastor Brian elected not to share with me in that moment. Since then, he has apologized for not being transparent with me.” This past Sunday, Crist said of Houston: “His continuation as our senior pastor was not tenable. It has become clear that we cannot continue in our global family, as much as we love it. So, we have chosen this week to withdraw from being Hillsong Church.” Crist also called for an investigation into the Hillsong Global Board and for sweeping reforms. “I believe it is in the best interest of Hillsong Church to conduct an internal investigation as it relates to board conduct,” Crist said, “to immediately restore the Sydney eldership, to make the findings of that public, and to dismiss the board members who have protected the institution and not the people.” In a public statement last week, Hillsong board members stated they “committed to an independent review of our governance structure and processes” but did not provide details of a timeline or potential outside partners for that assessment. Hillsong Global Senior Pastor Phil Dooley also outlined five board governance reforms steps during his Sunday sermon at Hillsong Church in Sydney. He touted the steps as fostering a “healthier structure” of church leadership. Freelance journalist Josh Shepherd writes on faith, culture, and public policy for several media outlets. He and his wife live in the Washington, D.C. area with their two children.
