=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sherri Papini kidnapping hoax - Wikipedia]
Sherri Papini kidnapping hoax Sherri Papini (top left) with her husband (bottom left) sitting for a police interrogation Sherri Louise Graeff-Papini is an American woman who disappeared on November 2, 2016, reportedly while out jogging a mile from her home in Redding, California. [1] Papini was 34 years old at the time.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sherri_Papini_kidnapping_hoax

[James Reyes: Where is Sherri Papini's Ex-Boyfriend Today?]
Jun 18, 2024 · Sherri Papini suddenly showed up during the early morning hours of November 24, 2016, after being missing for around three weeks. She appeared to be injured and bound at the time. However, the authorities weren’t entirely convinced by her story about being abducted by two Hispanic women keeping ...
URL: https://thecinemaholic.com/where-is-sherri-papinis-ex-boyfriend-james-reyes-now/

[Sherri Papini claims ex-boyfriend abducted her in new book on 2016 ...]
Jun 20, 2025 — Sherri Papini, the California woman who admitted to orchestrating a kidnapping hoax, alleges in a new book that she was kidnapped by a man ...
URL: https://abc30.com/post/sherri-papini-doesnt-exist-new-book-redding-california-woman-claims-ex-boyfriend-abducted-2016-hoax-kidnapping-case/16799111/

[Sherri Papini claims ex-boyfriend abducted her in 2016 hoax kidnapping ...]
Papini -- who pleaded guilty in 2022 to making false statements to federal agents and served 10 months in prison under the plea agreement -- claims she was kidnapped by James Reyes, an ex-boyfriend whom authorities have said Papini manipulated into helping with her kidnapping hoax.
URL: https://abcnews.com/GMA/News/sherri-papini-claims-boyfriend-abducted-2016-hoax-kidnapping/story?id=122988913

[Ex-boyfriend who hid Sherri Papini for 22 days is revealed]
Mar 5, 2022 · The ex-boyfriend who hid California 'super mom' Sherri Papini for 22 days is James Reyes, 37, DailyMail.com can disclose.
URL: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-10579167/Ex-boyfriend-hid-Sherri-Papini-22-days-revealed.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sherri Papini kidnapping hoax - Wikipedia] ---
Sherri Louise Graeff-Papini is an American woman who disappeared on November 2, 2016, reportedly while out jogging a mile from her home in Redding, California. Papini was 34 years old at the time. She reappeared three weeks later on Thanksgiving Day, November 24, having been reportedly freed by her captors at 4:30 that morning, still wearing restraints, on the side of County Road 17 near Interstate 5 in Yolo County, about 150 miles (240 km) south of where she disappeared.
The case garnered significant media attention; law enforcement experts cited doubts as to her story because of the unlikely details and inconsistencies of the reported abduction. In August 2020, she stood by her story when a federal agent and a detective from the Shasta County Sheriff's Office questioned her. She received more than $30,000 from the California Victim Compensation Board between 2017 and 2021. On March 3, 2022, Papini was arrested on federal charges arising from her fabrication of the abduction; she had reportedly been staying with a former boyfriend, James Reyes, during the time she was supposedly missing and, according to James Reyes, allegedly asked that he harm her in order to give credence to her lies. 
Six weeks after her arrest, Papini signed a plea deal admitting that she had orchestrated the hoax. She pleaded guilty to one count of mail fraud and one count of making false statements. In September 2022, she was sentenced to 18 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay $300,000 (including restitution to cover the costs of the police investigation).


--- [James Reyes: Where is Sherri Papini's Ex-Boyfriend Today?] ---
ABC News’ ‘20/20: The Vanishing Act’ as well as Hulu’s ‘Perfect Wife: The Mysterious Disappearance of Sherri Papini’ both focus on a shocking hoax kidnapping saga that began in November 2016. The titular mother of two suddenly disappeared one afternoon, only to show up around three weeks later. But quickly, the authorities noticed some significant inconsistencies/red flags in her story. They eventually learned that Sherri hadn’t actually been abducted; instead, she’d simply left to live with an ex-boyfriend named James Reyes, who helped her out without any merit of his own. James Reyes Tirelessly Helped Sherri Papini Sherri Papini suddenly showed up during the early morning hours of November 24, 2016, after being missing for around three weeks. She appeared to be injured and bound at the time. However, the authorities weren’t entirely convinced by her story about being abducted by two Hispanic women keeping her captive, suggesting they would sell her to someone from law enforcement before releasing her. So, they looked closely at Sherri’s life and followed the evidence. In the time after Sherri was found, officials collected her clothing for analysis and found male DNA on it. In September 2019, the police tried a familial DNA search, leading them to a close relative of the person they were looking for. The person was finally identified as James Reyes, an ex-boyfriend of Sherri’s, and they had stayed in touch after breaking up many years prior. On the social media page of James’ brother, the police noticed a table. The description matched the one Sherri talked about when she mentioned being branded by her purported kidnappers. In June 2020, the police thus went through James’ trash outside his home to collect DNA, leading to the identification. They also looked at his home, just to find that a room perfectly described the cold room Sherri claimed she’d been kept in during her alleged kidnapping. James was interviewed soon after that, providing a shocking twist to the investigation. He told the police that Sherri wanted to escape her then-husband, Keith Papini, since he was apparently beating and raping her. Since James had known Sherri since they were kids, he tried to help her out. While they talked on their personal cellphones at the beginning, they switched to prepaid phones later. On November 2, 2016, James had a friend rent a car for him, after which he drove to where he was supposed to pick up Sherri. Once there, she got into the back seat and laid down while he made the several-hour drive back to his home in Costa Mesa, California. Sherri then stayed there, mainly confining herself to the bedroom while James continued his routine. He added that she’d gone as far as to board up the bedroom window because she wanted it to be dark. Moreover, he said he also noticed that Sherri tried to lose weight on purpose by eating small quantities of food. James further told the police that many of Sherri’s wounds were self-inflicted and that he helped with some of the injuries. She had also asked him to brand her. He added, “I’m like, ‘Oh, this is probably going to hurt.’ I mean, I’ve never done this.” Yet after about three weeks with James, Sherri told him that she missed her kids and wanted to leave. So, like before, without asking any questions, he had his friend rent a car and then drove her back. At the time, Sherri disposed of her prepaid phone and had a bag that contained items to bind her wrists and ankles. James Reyes is Focusing on His Family Today James Reyes told the police that he didn’t know anything about the Hispanic women Sherri spoke about, all the while maintaining he didn’t do anything wrong per se. Ultimately, his confession was crucial in getting her to plead guilty, leading to prison time. Since then, James has understandably maintained a low profile. According to his uncle, he didn’t have any trouble with the law in the past and previously used to work at a skate store in Costa Mesa. However, according to the last reports, James is currently living in Nogales, Arizona, alongside his grandfather and a pet dog. Read More: Where Are Sherri and Keith Papini’s Children Now?


--- [Sherri Papini claims ex-boyfriend abducted her in new book on 2016 ...] ---
REDDING, Calif. -- Sherri Papini -- the California woman who admitted in a plea agreement to orchestrating a hoax about being kidnapped by two women -- alleges in a new book that she was in fact kidnapped by a man. Papini -- who pleaded guilty in 2022 to making false statements to federal agents and served 10 months in prison under the plea agreement -- claims she was kidnapped by James Reyes, an ex-boyfriend whom authorities have said Papini manipulated into helping with her kidnapping hoax. "There are several versions of what happened out there, several versions. This is mine. This is my words. It's backed by loads and loads of evidence. And it's, my heart is in it. It's vulnerable," Papini told ABC News' Juju Chang of the new claims in her self-published book, ""Sherri Papini Doesn't Exist." "My story isn't even done." In the book, Papini claims that at the time of her disappearance, in 2016, she was in an emotionally abusive and controlling marriage to her then-husband, Keith Papini, allegations he has vehemently denied. Sherri Papini claims she never told police the truth about her disappearance because she was afraid of Reyes and also afraid of her then-husband. "Prison was far safer than the consequences that I would suffer if my ex-husband found out I was having an emotional affair," Sherri Papini told Chang. "I'd prefer prison over telling Keith Papini that I was having an emotional affair." MORE: Ex-husband of Sherri Papini says he can't forgive her, speaking out on kidnapping hoax for 1st time The mother of two went missing on Nov. 2, 2016, while out for a jog in her Redding, California, neighborhood. After a massive search was launched for her, with community and family members pitching in, Sherri Papini, then 34, was found on Nov. 24, 2016, Thanksgiving Day, on a highway about 146 miles away from Redding. She was found with injuries covering her body, including a Bible verse branded on her shoulder, and later told authorities that two Latina women abducted her at gunpoint and took her in an SUV to a location where she was kept restrained with chains. Sherri Papini now claims that the injuries she suffered were from Reyes, the ex-boyfriend whom prosecutors have said Sherri Papini stayed with in Southern California during her disappearance. "To be clear, there was one thing that I lied about," Sherri Papini said. "Everything else was accurate and true. I lied about the identity of my captor." Reyes has not responded to ABC News' request for comment about Sherri Papini's claims, but he has previously denied them. He was never charged with a crime. Reyes was brought into the investigation into Sherri Papini's disappearance in 2020, when, with the help of genetic genealogy, DNA found on her clothing was matched to Reyes. When questioned by police at the time, Reyes initially said that he had not spoken to Sherri Papini in years, but eventually revealed that she had asked him for help and stayed at his apartment with him in southern California for weeks. Reyes also told police that the bruises, cuts and burns on her body were largely self-inflicted, and that she also asked him to hurt her. MORE: 'The Vanishing Act': How Sherri Papini fooled investigators, family with phony kidnapping plot In March 2022, Sherri Papini was arrested and charged with making false statements and mail fraud. Just weeks later, on April 18, 2022, Sherri Papini pleaded guilty to two counts of engaging in mail fraud and making false statements that were part of a 35-count indictment. In exchange for her plea, prosecutors agreed to a sentence at the lower end of federal sentencing guidelines. When she was sentenced in September 2022, Sherri Papini apologized publicly in court, saying, "I am guilty of lying. I am guilty of dishonor. I stand before you willing to accept, to repent and to concede." At the time of her sentencing, prosecutors alleged in court filings, "Papini's kidnapping hoax was deliberate, well-planned and sophisticated." In response to Sherri Papini's new allegations, the Shasta County Sheriff's Office told ABC News in a statement, "James Reyes was interviewed extensively by the FBI and Shasta County Sheriff's Office Major Crimes Unit. Not only was he fully cooperative and forthright with his answers, but he passed a polygraph in verifying his statements." The FBI declined to comment. Sherri Papini told Chang that she is speaking out now because she feels "free" to tell her truth. "I'm not actually asking anyone to believe anything. I just, I'm free now," she said. "And I have the capacity to speak for myself without being afraid and without having to lie, and not being as fearful as I have been before." Keith Papini filed for divorce in 2022. The former couple is now locked in a bitter custody battle over Sherri Papini's visitation rights to their two children. Keith Panini told ABC News last year that he is still haunted by the kidnapping ordeal. "I think it's always going to be there," he said. "We do want to move past it. I do want to provide my children an amazing childhood. But I think it'll always be there." When asked by Chang what message she wants to send to her ex-husband now, Sherri Papini said, "You have to love your children more than you hate your ex. Just love them more than your hate for me." And when it comes to her former boyfriend, Reyes, Sherri Papini says wants him to "tell the truth," as she says she has done. "It's time to tell the truth. I've done it. I've suffered for it. You watched me burn for it, go to prison, and lose custody of my children and ruin my entire life," she said. "And it's time to come forward and tell the truth to everyone. He knows what happened." "Sherri Papini Doesn't Exist" is available for pre-order now and will be published on June 26, according to Sherri Papini's website.


--- [Sherri Papini claims ex-boyfriend abducted her in 2016 hoax kidnapping ...] ---
Sherri Papini claims ex-boyfriend abducted her in 2016 hoax kidnapping case Papini, a mom of two, disappeared for 22 days in 2016. Sherri Papini -- the California woman who admitted in a plea agreement to orchestrating a hoax about being kidnapped by two women -- alleges in a new book that she was in fact kidnapped by a man. Papini -- who pleaded guilty in 2022 to making false statements to federal agents and served 10 months in prison under the plea agreement -- claims she was kidnapped by James Reyes, an ex-boyfriend whom authorities have said Papini manipulated into helping with her kidnapping hoax. "There are several versions of what happened out there, several versions. This is mine. This is my words. It's backed by loads and loads of evidence. And it's, my heart is in it. It's vulnerable," Papini told ABC News' Juju Chang of the new claims in her self-published book, "Sherri Papini Doesn't Exist." "My story isn't even done." In the book, Papini claims that at the time of her disappearance, in 2016, she was in an emotionally abusive and controlling marriage to her then-husband, Keith Papini, allegations he has vehemently denied. Sherri Papini claims she never told police the truth about her disappearance because she was afraid of Reyes and also afraid of her then-husband. "Prison was far safer than the consequences that I would suffer if my ex-husband found out I was having an emotional affair," Sherri Papini told Chang. "I'd prefer prison over telling Keith Papini that I was having an emotional affair." The mother of two went missing on Nov. 2, 2016, while out for a jog in her Redding, California, neighborhood. After a massive search was launched for her, with community and family members pitching in, Sherri Papini, then 34, was found on Nov. 24, 2016, Thanksgiving Day, on a highway about 146 miles away from Redding. She was found with injuries covering her body, including a Bible verse branded on her shoulder, and later told authorities that two Latina women abducted her at gunpoint and took her in an SUV to a location where she was kept restrained with chains. 'It's highly unlikely that he's going to confess' Sherri Papini now claims that the injuries she suffered were from Reyes, the ex-boyfriend whom prosecutors have said Sherri Papini stayed with in Southern California during her disappearance. "To be clear, there was one thing that I lied about," Sherri Papini said. "Everything else was accurate and true. I lied about the identity of my captor." Reyes has not responded to ABC News' request for comment about Sherri Papini's claims, but he has previously denied them. He was never charged with a crime. Reyes was brought into the investigation into Sherri Papini's disappearance in 2020, when, with the help of genetic genealogy, DNA found on her clothing was matched to Reyes. When questioned by police at the time, Reyes initially said that he had not spoken to Sherri Papini in years, but eventually revealed that she had asked him for help and stayed at his apartment with him in southern California for weeks. Reyes also told police that the bruises, cuts and burns on her body were largely self-inflicted, and that she also asked him to hurt her. In March 2022, Sherri Papini was arrested and charged with making false statements and mail fraud. Just weeks later, on April 18, 2022, Sherri Papini pleaded guilty to two counts of engaging in mail fraud and making false statements that were part of a 35-count indictment. In exchange for her plea, prosecutors agreed to a sentence at the lower end of federal sentencing guidelines. When she was sentenced in September 2022, Sherri Papini apologized publicly in court, saying, "I am guilty of lying. I am guilty of dishonor. I stand before you willing to accept, to repent and to concede." At the time of her sentencing, prosecutors alleged in court filings, "Papini's kidnapping hoax was deliberate, well-planned and sophisticated." In response to Sherri Papini's new allegations, the Shasta County Sheriff's Office told ABC News in a statement, "James Reyes was interviewed extensively by the FBI and Shasta County Sheriff’s Office Major Crimes Unit. Not only was he fully cooperative and forthright with his answers, but he passed a polygraph in verifying his statements." The FBI declined to comment. 'It's time to tell the truth' Sherri Papini told Chang that she is speaking out now because she feels "free" to tell her truth. "I'm not actually asking anyone to believe anything. I just, I'm free now," she said. "And I have the capacity to speak for myself without being afraid and without having to lie, and not being as fearful as I have been before." Keith Papini filed for divorce in 2022. The former couple is now locked in a bitter custody battle over Sherri Papini's visitation rights to their two children. Keith Panini told ABC News last year that he is still haunted by the kidnapping ordeal. "I think it's always going to be there," he said. "We do want to move past it. I do want to provide my children an amazing childhood. But I think it'll always be there." When asked by Chang what message she wants to send to her ex-husband now, Sherri Papini said, "You have to love your children more than you hate your ex. Just love them more than your hate for me." And when it comes to her former boyfriend, Reyes, Sherri Papini says wants him to "tell the truth," as she says she has done. "It's time to tell the truth. I've done it. I've suffered for it. You watched me burn for it, go to prison, and lose custody of my children and ruin my entire life," she said. "And it's time to come forward and tell the truth to everyone. He knows what happened." "Sherri Papini Doesn't Exist" is available for pre-order now and will be published on June 26, according to Sherri Papini's website.


--- [Ex-boyfriend who hid Sherri Papini for 22 days is revealed] ---
EXCLUSIVE: Ex-lover who hid Sherri Papini for 22 days is revealed as a 37-year-old sports shop worker who helped her escape her 'abusive husband' in Costa Mesa apartment in her own room with boarded up windows as he slept on the couch - Sherri Papini was arrested this week on suspicion of lying about her 2016 disappearance in California - The mother-of-two told cops she spent two weeks in captivity, beaten and starved by two Hispanic women but authorities say she was hiding out with her ex-boyfriend - DailyMail.com can reveal that the ex is James Reyes, 37, a sports shop worker - Reyes was told by Papini that her husband Keith was abusing her and she needed to escape - Reyes said the pair spent three weeks hiding out at his apartment in Costa Mesa and helped her fabricate the injuries she had when she returned home - Reyes also admitted to dropping Papini off by the roadside in Woodland when her twisted plot came to an end - Male DNA found on Papini's underwear led cops to Reyes' father and the 37-year-old confessed to his role in the deception when confronted - Papini maintained her story about being kidnapped when FBI investigators confronted The ex-boyfriend who hid California 'super mom' Sherri Papini for 22 days is James Reyes, 37, DailyMail.com can disclose. James Reyes, 37, is the ex-boyfriend who hid California 'super mom' Sherri Papini for 22 days Papini, 39, was arrested on Thursday night on suspicion of staging her 2016 kidnapping. It was a case that gripped America - a healthy young mother vanishing after going out for a run near her suburban home in Redding, California. She reappeared battered and bruised three weeks later and told police she had been kidnapped by two Hispanic women Reyes, who used to live in Costa Mesa, California, collected the mom-of-two in a rental car on the day she vanished after spending weeks exchanging flirty texts with her. Reyes said the pair spent three weeks hiding out at his apartment in Costa Mesa and helped her fabricate the injuries she had when she returned home - including a brand on her shoulder. Reyes also admitted to dropping Papini off by the roadside in Woodland when her twisted plot came to an end. Male DNA found on Papini's underwear led cops to Reyes' father and the 37-year-old confessed to his role in the deception when confronted. Athletic store worker Reyes told police that he believed Papini to be in an abusive relationship and drove to her home town of Redding to pick her up after she asked for help to get away. Sherri Papini with her husband Keith. Her ex-boyfriend told police she convinced him that Keith was abusing her and that she wanted help to get away from him so convinced the ex-boyfriend to pick her up Athletic store worker Reyes told police that he believed Papini to be in an abusive relationship and drove to her home town of Redding to pick her up after she asked for help to get away Reyes said the pair spent three weeks hiding out at his apartment in Costa Mesa and helped her fabricate the injuries she had when she returned home According to the indictment, Reyes told police that Papini caused self-inflicted injuries while staying with him, including hitting herself to create bruises and burning herself on her arms. Reyes even admitted to helping her create some of the injuries, although he says he never laid his hands on her directly. For example, she told him to shoot her in the leg with a pellet gun. He said he did not help Papini burn her arm. 'That was self-inflicted. I didn't burn anything on her arm there.' He went as far as to say he was confused by Papini injuring herself and told police, 'There's not too many people that come up and say hurt me. I'm not physical ever with women, I mean I just don't.' Reyes told police that Papini caused self-inflicted injuries while staying with him, including hitting herself to create bruises and burning herself on her arms According to the arrest affidavit, Papini confessed to making up her story after being confronted with Reyes' testimony - and admitted to having multiple affairs during her marriage to Best Buy employee Keith Papini did not start creating injuries on herself until close to the time she decided to leave Reyes and go back home, the indictment said, adding that she had initially planned to stay with him for a longer period of time. At one point, Papini told Reyes to order a wood burning tool from Hobby Lobby to brand her, using cash to make the purchase. He said Papini was aware of the news stories about her disappearance by this point and did not want people to see her, so he went to Hobby Lobby alone. Reyes described the burning tool as a small plug-in similar in size to an electric tooth brush with letters that snapped into the top of it. Papini sat on the floor next to the tool and pulled her shirt up so he could make the brand with the phrase that she wanted. Reyes said he could not remember the phrase but that it was something meaningful. The tool was so hot it glowed red, but Papini did not complain about the pain when he branded her right shoulder. According to the indictment, during the period of her disappearance Panini never left Reyes' residence and asked him to pick up clothes for her to wear. He purchased sweats, socks and t-shirts from Target, TJ Maxx, or Ross. Prosecutors charged Sherri Papini, 39, (pictured) for lying to federal agents about being kidnapped and defrauding the state's victim compensation board of $30,000 Ben Affleck as Nick Dunne in Gone Girl, Amy's unwitting husband. Right, Sherri Papini and her husband Keith on their wedding day The area where Sherri Papini was found near the I-5 freeway outside of Yolo, California Papini told her ex-boyfriend to pick her up on November 2 from her home in Redding, California. She then sat in the backseat, lying down, while he drove seven hours south to Costa Mesa. For two weeks, they stayed in his apartment. She occupied the bedroom and he slept on the couch, according to prosecutors. He then drove her home She also asked him to board up the windows. During the period of her disappearance, Papini never left Reyes' two-bedroom apartment. He continued to go to work every day. Papini selected the room she wanted to stay in. He believed she purposefully selected the room with 'less exposure.' Reyes told investigators that it might sound 'bland,' but they really just 'talked,' 'hung out,' and 'ate food,' but they did not go anywhere. Reyes said he believed Papini was purposefully trying to lose weight while she was staying with him. 'She was not eating as much as she would...she would just minimize what she was eating,' he said, adding that she would only eat half of a banana in an attempt to appear emaciated. Reyes said he came home one day to see Papini had chopped her hair off. He told investigators that it might sound 'bland,' but they really just 'talked,' 'hung out' all day during the time. Papini's disappearance in November 2016 sparked a nationwide manhunt, with husband Keith making a series of emotional appeals for her to come home. Three weeks after she vanished, the 39-year-old was discovered wandering down a road in Woodside, California, with a broken nose and her long blond hair hacked off. She told police that she had been kidnapped by two Hispanic women - but her story fell apart when she was arrested and charged with mail fraud for making the whole tale up. Keith Papini was in tears when he spoke about his wife abduction 20/20. The 'supermom' seemed to be getting back to normal when she went for pizza with her husband Keith in Redding, California in December, 2017 It was only when he saw the intense media coverage of Papini returning home that he started to panic, he said. Reyes said he never came forward because he thought that police would approach him if he had done something wrong, so he stayed quiet. In August 2020, police confronted Papini with the evidence but she continued to deny it and say there is 'no way' it could have been the ex-boyfriend. She admitted speaking with him over text, as she did with other men, but said it was merely a mistake and nothing criminal. 'When I went out of town for work. I talked with other guys ......... I made a mistake and I talked to other men and I shouldn't have,' she said. In the five years since she allegedly faked the disappearance, Papini claimed $30,000 from the Victim Compensation Board. Skepticism about her disappearance came after it was revealed she had previously run away as a teenager. And according to the Sacramento Bee, uncovered documents from 13 years ago outlined how Papini's mother, Loretta Graeff, called police asking for help after her daughter was allegedly self-harming and trying to blame the wounds on her. The incident report, filed in December 2003, is just two lines long and reads: 'RP states her 21y/o daughter that was living with her was harming herself and blaming it on the RP. 'RP states female is coming back to live with them and she wants advice.' The newspaper also found two other incidents involving Papini, where her father and sister both claimed she damaged their property. In 2000, Richard Graeff said his daughter 'burglarized his residence,' before Sheila Koester, 'alleged her back door had been kicked in and she believed Papini was the suspect', the Bee reported. In retrospect, 'we are relieved that the community is not endangered by unknown, violent kidnappers,' said Sean Ragan, special agent in charge of the FBI's Sacramento Field Office. According to the arrest affidavit, Papini confessed to making up her story after being confronted with Reyes' testimony - and admitted to having multiple affairs during her marriage to Best Buy employee Keith. Papini and her husband Keith spent the $49,000 raised on a GoFundMe page to 'bring her home' to pay off their personal credit cards and contribute to personal expenses, federal prosecutors claimed. Sherri is now in the Sacramento County Jail, where her attorney says she cannot eat. During a Zoom court appearance this week attorney Michael Borges said Papini had only been able to eat an apple since she was taken into custody in front of her kids at her home on Thursday. He said the mother of two - who weighs only 100lbs and is 5ft tall - has food allergies which prevent her from being able to eat anything else. It is believed she and Keith have separated. Most watched News videos - Moment before woman is shot for marrying without family's blessing - Shocking moment brawl erupts at hotel swimming pool in Benidorm - Coldplay scandal pair lock lips before viral kiss camera moment - Oasis fans ditch their crutches and wheelchairs in 'biblical' scenes - Brand experts claim Meghan Markle is a 'fraud' capitalising on fame - Hear traumatized Delta pilot's message to passengers after near-miss - Woman who filmed Coldplay kisscam scandal SPEAKS OUT - Obama says boys should have gay mentors - 'Sleeping Prince' dies after 20 years in coma - Gabbard claims Obama initiated 'years-long coup' against Trump - Body found in search for missing Rachel Booth - Delta Airlines plane catches fire shortly after takeoff from LAX
