=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Alexa | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Alexa is the midwife of Devon Scout-Hale, who sets her up with Mark Scout. Alexa grew up in Montana with her family. They once went to visit Minnesota, which she found very cold. When moved to Kier, where she was hired as Devon Scout-Hale's midwife. Devon then set Alexa up on a date with her brother, Mark. On the date, Mark drank and talked about being severed for his work at Lumon. She found ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Alexa

[Severance (TV series) - Wikipedia]
Nikki M. James as Alexa (season 1), Devon's midwife and one of Mark's love interests. Sydney Cole Alexander as Natalie Kalen, Lumon's PR representative and speaker for the mysterious Board. Nora Dale as Gabby Arteta (season 1), the wife of Senator Angelo Arteta, whom Devon encounters at a birthing retreat.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Severance_%28TV_series%29

[Will Mark and Alexa get together in Severance? - Epic Dope]
Apr 1, 2022 · Mark and Alexa might not get together in Season 1. Their encounter might not transform into a relationship simply because there is so much else the show has to unpack about Regabhi, Ms. Cobel, Kier Eagan, and the Lumon industry. Mark and Alexa met again at the cottage where Devon was delivering the baby. Considering Alexa was her midwife, she was there and even greeted Mark.
URL: https://www.epicdope.com/will-mark-and-alexa-get-together-in-severance/

[Half Loop · Severance Wiki]
Jan 26, 2026 · Half Loop Transcript [Title Card] Episode Number 1.2 Directed By Ben Stiller Written By Dan Erickson Premiered February 18, 2022 Runtime 53 minutes Previous Episode Good News About Hell Next Episode In Perpetuity Half Loop Half Loop is the second episode of the first season of Severance. Synopsis " My job is to scroll through this spreadsheet and look for numbers that are
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/s1e2

[Nikki M. James | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Nikki M. James portrayed Alexa in season one of Severance. Spoiler Alert (2022) Broadway Whodunit: All Hallows' Eve (2020) The Great Work Begins. Scenes from Angels in America (2020) Here After (2020) Shelter (2017) For Real (2015) Each Kindness (2014) Les Miserables: The Broadway Musical (2014) Lucky Stiff (2014) The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby: Them (2014) The Disappearance of Eleanor ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Nikki_M._James


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Alexa | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Alexa is the midwife of Devon Scout-Hale, who sets her up with Mark Scout. History[] Alexa grew up in Montana with her family. They once went to visit Minnesota, which she found very cold. When moved to Kier, where she was hired as Devon Scout-Hale's midwife. Devon then set Alexa up on a date with her brother, Mark. On the date, Mark drank and talked about being severed for his work at Lumon. She found it unsettling that he could have a girlfriend on the inside and never know and could also have a whole family on the outside and never know. They left the restaurant and walked around. When they came across Whole Mind Collective members distributing fliers opposing severance, Mark approached them and got into an argument with them. During this, he looked at Alexa and ended up leading them away.[1] When Devon went into labor, Alexa came to the cabin to deliver her baby. While there, she ran into Mark, who apologized for what happened on their date. Soon after, Devon's baby was safely delivered.[2] After the birth, Mark and Alexa went on another date. On the date, Mark talked about Gemma, but then asked if it was okay, because he worried about upsetting Alexa. She told him she thought it was healthy for him to talk about her. After they ate, Mark saw a poster saying June's band was playing nearby and they decided to go The watched as the band performed a song about how much Lumon sucked and then Mark talked to June. When a fight broke out nearby, Mark and Alexa decided to leave. Mark explained that June was the daughter of a co-worker of his who died. Alexa leaned in and kissed him and went home with him.[3] Alexa woke up and found Mark gone. When he came back home, she confronted him about it and he said that the relationship was a lot for him. She left, but had to return later to get her phone. Mark tried to tell her that he was ready for a relationship, but she didn't believe it and left.[4] Personality[] Physical Description[] Alexa is a very beautiful woman with brown skin and dark brown eyes. She has black hair that she keeps straight and shoulder length with sweeping bangs. She dresses nice but casual, often in blouses and jeans, with heeled boots. Relationships[] Quotes[] Notes and Trivia[] Gallery[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | References[] - ↑ Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07


--- [Severance (TV series) - Wikipedia] ---
Severance is an American science fiction psychological thriller television series created by Dan Erickson, and executive produced and primarily directed by Ben Stiller. It stars Adam Scott, Zach Cherry, Britt Lower, Tramell Tillman, Jen Tullock, Dichen Lachman, Michael Chernus, John Turturro, Christopher Walken, Patricia Arquette, and Sarah Bock. The series follows employees at Lumon Industries, a biotechnology corporation, that have undergone "severance"—a procedure that splits a person's memories between work and their personal life. This creates two separate identities for employees: the "innie", who has no knowledge of the outside world, and the "outie", who lives their life outside without any knowledge of their job.
Erickson and Stiller first developed Severance in 2015, with the series being greenlit by Apple TV in 2019, with Scott attached. The cast for the first season was rounded out by December 2020, and the cast for the second season was announced in October 2022. Principal photography for the series has taken place in New York, New Jersey and Newfoundland. Its first season aired from February 18 until April 8, 2022, and its second season from January 17 to March 21, 2025. Severance has been renewed for a third season.  In February 2026, it was reported that Apple TV had acquired the intellectual property and all rights to the series from Fifth Season, with its in-house Apple Studios to become the production company for the series starting with the third season.
Severance has received critical acclaim for its cinematography, direction, production design, musical score, story, and performances. It has received numerous accolades, including 41 Primetime Emmy Award nominations, winning for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series for Lower and Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for Tillman. Scott's performance earned him nominations for a Primetime Emmy Award, two Television Critics Association Awards, and a Golden Globe Award, while Stiller and Erickson also received Emmy nominations for directing and writing.




--- [Will Mark and Alexa get together in Severance? - Epic Dope] ---
Alexa hasn’t appeared much throughout the show, but her character had more time in Episode 6. For those of you who don’t remember, Alexa is Mark’s sister’s midwife, who was helping her with her pregnancy and delivery. Mark’s sister, Devon, set Mark up with Alexa to take his mind off of things. After his wife’s death, he had been pretty somber and distant, so Devon thought of nudging him to go out and meet people. When Alexa and Mark meet in an earlier episode, he’s not in the best space. The date was somewhat okay, and on their way home, he has a mini-outburst on a few volunteers protesting against the Lumon industries. Alexa seems pretty put-off by his reaction, and it looks like that’s the last time their paths will cross. However, as circumstances would have it, the two went on another date and even slept together. So, will Mark and Alexa actually get together? Mark and Alexa might not get together in Season 1. Their encounter might not transform into a relationship simply because there is so much else the show has to unpack about Regabhi, Ms. Cobel, Kier Eagan, and the Lumon industry. Mark and Alexa met again at the cottage where Devon was delivering the baby. Considering Alexa was her midwife, she was there and even greeted Mark. The two struck up a mini conversation, and later, Mark seemed interested in going on a date again. The two met, and this time, it was much better. Although Mark spoke about his late wife, and the entire atmosphere was a little gloomy, it still felt good because Mark was being honest and vulnerable. Alexa appreciated this and was more than willing to listen to him about his ex-wife. The date ends, and as they walk on the road, Mark sees a poster of a garage concert. He recognizes Petey’s daughter, and the two decide to go for it. The band dedicates its songs to Lumon industries, how they are hiding things, getting inside people’s heads (quite literally), and more. At first, Mark is uncomfortable but later joins in and sings the chorus, “I hate you, Lumon.” with everyone. The date ends with the two kissing each other, and we later see that they’ve slept together. However, despite this, I believe the two will not be getting into a serious relationship. It’s simply too much of a diversion from the show’s theme surrounding Lumon. What makes it more unlikely is that the show has only three episodes remaining in Season 1, and they still have a lot to unravel. We still don’t know what Lumon does, what secrets they are hiding, how Kier Eagan is related to all this, and more. Beyond all this, the introduction of a new character called Regabhi brings us closer to the answer to all the above questions. She is the person behind Petey’s reintegration and likely an ex-employee of Lumon, who knows everything that goes on in the building. So, these are the reasons why Mark and Alexa probably will not get together now. However, we can see some semblance of a deeper friendship develop, which may or may not evolve in Season 2. About Severance Severance is an American science fiction psychological thriller streaming television series created by Dan Erickson and directed by Ben Stiller and Aoife McArdle. The plot follows Mark (Scott), an employee of Lumon Industries who agrees to a “severance” program in which his non-work memories are separated from his work memories.


--- [Half Loop · Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Half Loop Transcript | | | Episode Number | 1.2 | |---|---| | Directed By | Ben Stiller | | Written By | Dan Erickson | | Premiered | February 18, 2022 | | Runtime | 53 minutes | | Previous Episode | Good News About Hell | | Next Episode | In Perpetuity | Half Loop is the second episode of the first season of Severance. My job is to scroll through this spreadsheet and look for numbers that are scary?— Helly, (12:13) Mr. Milchick films Helly reading a written statement to her Innie, Helly, regarding her free choice to undergo the Severance process. They walk past a large stone bas-relief of Kier Eagan's profile, and as he explains what she should expect from the procedure, Mr. Milchick mentions the company founder's favorite breakfast, three raw eggs in milk. They enter the room where Helly is to be implanted with a Severance chip. A surgeon drills a hole into the back of Helly’s skull while Mr. Milchick observes. He takes a photo of Helly awake in the surgeon’s chair during the procedure and tells her, “I’m very excited to meet you.” The surgeon inserts the chip deep into Helly’s brain using a long needle. Helly’s eyes close. Helly finds herself in an open stairwell outside the door to the Severed Floor. Milchick is waiting for her. Confused, she asks what is happening and where she is. Milchick explains that severance can be disorienting at first. He invites her to try to walk back into the restricted space of the Severed floor through the door “to experience the transition viscerally.” In a reverse of her attempts to leave the floor in the first episode, she now cannot enter through the doorway, always ending up back in the stairwell. Now Helly is in the elevator. It dings. The door opens to Mr. Milchick standing there with a small bouquet of white flowers for her. He congratulates Helly on completing her first day. It’s two days later, Monday. Mark S. is the first to enter the MDR office. As the new Chief of the Macrodata Refinement Department, a list of morning duties is waiting for him in a wall bin. Before the start of the workday he completes tasks such as filling the soap in the restroom, wiping down the cubicles, dusting the Compliance volumes, and acknowledging the portrait of Kier Eagan (verbally or silently). While cleaning the cubicles, he notices that the small framed group pictures of the four Refiners—Dylan, Irving, Mark, and Petey—are still on everybody’s desks. He hides them in the Supply Closet. Helly arrives and expresses surprise to Mark that the day is Monday, even though to her it feels like she never left or had a weekend. He assures her she will adjust to it. Dylan begins to train Helly on Macrodata Refinement, and shows her the incentives he has earned from making progress on many files. He expresses his hope that he will be the winner of that quarter’s Waffle Party. Mark takes over and assigns Helly the Siena file. He begins to explain the process of sorting the numbers as Irving interrupts him a few times demanding to know what happened to the group pictures. Mark continues with Helly, explaining how some of the numbers could feel scary. Helly inquires whether she has the option of quitting the job if it turns out she hates it. Mark lets her know she can submit a resignation request. Mr. Milchick enters the office, pushing a cart laden with a Melon Bar. It is a welcome celebration for Helly. The festivities begin with a getting-to-know-you exercise. Helly has trouble saying anything substantial about herself and asks for a way to get a message to her Outie, which Milchick denies, mentioning the existence of the Code Detectors in the elevator to prevent that from happening surreptitiously. On his turn, Mark admits to hiding the group pictures. The sudden departure of Petey is unnerving to him. Milchick tries to lighten the mood by starting the melon party, which consists of festively cut honeydew and cantaloupe. Then Milchick gathers everyone to take the new group photo. Helly walks off, announcing that she has quit, and runs to the elevator with her resignation written on a post-it note. She gets in the elevator, and immediately loud alarms and red flashing lights go off. Graner runs over from the Security Office and begins to lead Helly off, but Mark intervenes and takes responsibility for the misunderstanding about data smuggling. Graner takes Mark to the Break Room instead. Mark walks slowly down a narrow dark hall toward a door that opens to reveal Ms. Cobel. Later, Mark's outie is on a first date with Alexa. She tells him about her job as a midwife, and asks about Mark’s job at Lumon. She wonders whether it messes with his head. A little drunk, Mark insists he likes it better this way. Walking back to their cars after dinner, Mark remembers her state wrong and is visibly drunk and a little abrasive. He and Alexa come upon a group of Whole Mind Collective protestors by the statue of Kier Eagan in the square. They are passing out flyers demanding an end to Severance, which they believe is on the verge of being a forced procedure. Mark argues aggressively with the protesters but takes a flyer with him. At home later, Mark receives a visit from Mrs. Selvig. She has brought some home made chamomile cookies as a peace offering for the recycling bin contretemps. Mark invites her in. She observes that Mark smells nice, asking if he’s just been on a date. He admits he has. She tells Mark a story about her late carpenter husband and his promise to build her a house in the hereafter, with a small guest apartment in the back in case she found a new man before she got there. After Mrs. Selvig leaves, Mark goes down to his basement. He locates a plastic bin labeled “Gemma’s Crafts” and examines a red and green pillar candle from inside. He puts the candle back and closes the lid of the bin. Upstairs, he passes out on the couch again. The next morning Mark calls in sick to work from his car, saying he has a minor stomach bug. Milchick wishes him to get well soon and says that Mark’s Innie will be sad to have missed the day. Back at Lumon, Irving and Dylan wonder where Mark is, hoping he hasn’t been fired. Dylan teases Irving for having been disciplined for dozing. Helly comes in and expresses worry that her “note thing” might have caused Mark to lose his job. Dylan said he wouldn't be fired, he did his stint in the Break Room. In Ms. Cobel’s office, Milchick, Graner, and Cobel discuss the funny timing of Mark’s absence. Outside, Mark drives through the gloomy weather to the address Petey wrote on the back of the card, 499 Half Loop Road. It is an abandoned greenhouse. At Lumon, Dylan explains to Helly that only one in five files are completed before they expire, better than they did before Mark's “freshman fluke.” Meanwhile, Irving works on his file. He begins to hallucinate thick black goo pouring out of the cubicle walls that surround him. He jolts and screams as the goo runs up his keyboard near his fingers. He apologizes for his outburst; Mr. Milchick is suddenly present in the room. Mark, at the greenhouse, wanders through the wreckage and overgrowth. He comes upon a small saucepan on a campfire, and Petey skulking not far away. Milchick leads Irving through the white corridors at Lumon. He tells Irving that the consequence of falling asleep at work is a deduction in his pay, but he won’t have to visit the Break Room. Instead, he is brought to Wellness Center for a check with Ms. Casey. In MDR, Dylan shares with Helly his theory that their work is cleaning the sea on behalf of a desperate, ruined humanity. At the greenhouse, Mark asks Petey what they worked on at Lumon. Petey says he doesn’t know. He reveals that he has been “reintegrated” for two weeks and during that time he mapped out the Severed floor. He shows Mark a re-creation of the map he drew and says that he hid the original for Mark when he left Lumon. Petey seems to suffer from some kind of attack which he attributes to Reintegration Sickness. Mark expresses disbelief; Petey explains he is the first person to be reintegrated. Petey tries to tell Mark about the Break Room. He plays a cassette recording that sounds like an exhausted Mark repeatedly reading an apology to Milchick. The recording clearly fills Mark with confusion and horror. On the Severed floor, Irving is sitting in a waiting room alone. He stands up to admire the oil painting hanging behind his bench. The painting depicts a white haired and bearded man, backlit with an otherworldly light, preparing to whip a group of four with a cat-o’-nine tails. The figures represented are a young bride, an old woman, a man dressed as a fool, and a horned goat. While Irving regards the scene, a man emerges from one of the two doors in the room. He is about Irving’s age and is wearing a light blue lab coat and a green badge. He notices Irving’s appreciation for the painting. They discuss where it has been hung before, but the man thinks it is better in this location. He thinks the painting is “calming.” Irving introduces himself; the man, Burt, is the head of Optics and Design. Their friendly conversation is interrupted when Irving is called into the other room by Ms. Casey. Irving and Ms. Casey sit across from one another in a darkened room with a tree and skylights and other natural elements. Ms. Casey puts on a track of soothing sounds with music. She calls Irving’s Outie “an exemplary person” and reads from a list of facts about this aspect of him in a steady, gentle voice, instructing him to enjoy each fact equally. They include “Your Outie is generous,” “Your Outie is strong and helped someone lifting a heavy object,” “Your Outie likes the sound of radar,” and “Your Outie is skilled at kissing and lovemaking.” By inadvertently reacting to one of the facts, Irving loses 10 points and has 90 points remaining. Dylan buys some raisins from the vending machine in the Kitchenette. Helly interrogates him about the Code Detectors. Irving returns from Wellness, announcing that he has met the head of O&D. Dylan reacts negatively, stating that Burt “is a fuck” and he hopes Irving did not tell him where their office is located. While Dylan and Irving argue about Lumon myths, Helly excitedly completes her first data refinement. She acknowledges that the numbers were scary. That night, outside, Mark sets Petey up on a couch in his basement and offers his shower. Petey thanks him. He goes into the bathroom. A phone in his pocket buzzes but he doesn’t answer it. He bends over and gasps in pain. His nose begins to bleed. He washes his face and heaves. In the shower, he begins to have flashbacks of Lumon, and passes out. It sounds dumb, and Mark said it dumb.— Dylan, (12:16) Hey, Mark. I just printed out the passage of the handbook on changing out group photos. Just might be good to peruse when you're between things.— Irving, (12:24) Helly, welcome. I'm agog at how well I can tell you're already fitting in. The office feels whole. Now, let's get this party started.— Milchick, (13:24) I like to think my outie lives on, like, a riverboat.— Dylan, (14:57) Okay, refiners! Let's get this new group photo before the melon bloat sets in.— Milchick, (19:40) I quit. I don't wanna do the file-sorting thing or the never-seeing-the-sun thing or the disappearing-friends thing. I just don't want any of it.— Helly, (20:27) I'm experimenting with chamomile, so no hard feelings if you gag.— Cobel [as Mrs. Selvig], (28:26) All right, Irving. What I'd like to do is share with you some facts about your outie. Because your outie is an exemplary person, these facts should be very pleasing. Just relax your body and be open to the facts. Try to enjoy each equally. These facts are not to be shared outside this room. But for now, they're yours to enjoy.— Ms. Casey, (44:45) Please try to enjoy each fact equally, and not show preference for any over the others.— Ms. Casey, (46:12) You gotta let the info-smuggling notion go.— Dylan, (48:07) And don't pretend you care about this department. You just want your waffle party.— Irving, (48:32) They were scary. The numbers were scary.— Helly, (49:36) If you would like to contribute to this article, please join our Severance Show Discord and submit your suggestions in the #wiki channel.


--- [Nikki M. James | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Nikki M. James portrayed Alexa in season one of Severance. Career[] Filmography[] - Spoiler Alert (2022) - Broadway Whodunit: All Hallows' Eve (2020) - The Great Work Begins. Scenes from Angels in America (2020) - Here After (2020) - Shelter (2017) - For Real (2015) - Each Kindness (2014) - Les Miserables: The Broadway Musical (2014) - Lucky Stiff (2014) - The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby: Them (2014) - The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby: Her (2013) - The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby: Him (2013) - All Is Bright (2013) - Caesar and Cleopatra (2009) - Pizza (2005) Television[] - Daredevil: Born Again (2025) - Severance (2022) - Modern Love (mini-series) (2021) - The Good Fight (2018-2020) - Welcome to the Wayne (2017-2019) - Proven Innocent (2019) - NCIS: New Orleans (2019) - Escape at Dannemora (mini-series) (2018) - Instinct (2018) - Bull (2018) - BrainDead (2016) - The Blacklist (2016) - The Good Wife (2015-2016) - Law & Order: Special Victims Unit (2012-2015) - 30 Rock (2010) - Law & Order: Criminal Intent (2003-2009) - The Jury (2004) - Third Watch (2001)
