=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kingda Ka - Wikipedia]
Kingda Ka was struck by lightning in May 2009 and suffered serious damage. [53] The ride was closed for three months for repairs and reopened on August 21, 2009.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingda_Ka

[America's Tallest Roller Coaster Crumbles to Ground, Fans Left Devastated]
Feb 28, 2025 · The ride continued to face setbacks over the years, including a lightning strike in 2009 that caused significant damage and kept Kingda Ka closed for three months. Then, in 2011, the coaster was ...
URL: https://insidethemagic.net/2025/02/final-hours-six-flags-kingda-ka-cj1/

[Location: Six Flags Great Adventure, Jackson, N.J. "The Golden Kingdom ...]
Lightning strike Kingda Ka was struck by lightning in early May 2009 and suffered serious damage.After being closed for three months, Kingda Ka reopened on August 21, 2009. fHurricane Irene On August 27, 2011, Kingda Ka suffered unspecified damage shortly before Hurricane Irene. On Saturday, August 27, Six Flags Great Adventure did not open
URL: https://www.scribd.com/doc/253059479/Roller

[Kingda Ka Explained]
Kingda Ka was struck by lightning in May 2009 and suffered serious damage. [43] The ride was closed for three months for repairs and reopened on August 21, 2009.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/%5C/Kingda_Ka/

[Kingda Ka | The World's Largest Roller Coaster - RankRed]
Jun 7, 2020 · Kingda Ka suffered severe damage after it was struck by lightning in May of 2009 and was closed for about three months. Hurricane Irene, which hit the Eastern Seaboard of the United States in late August of 2011, caused the ride to be closed for almost a year. Read: 12 Tallest Roller Coasters In The World Some Short Facts 1.
URL: https://www.rankred.com/kingda-ka-largest-roller-coaster/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kingda Ka - Wikipedia] ---
Kingda Ka was a hydraulically-launched steel roller coaster located at Six Flags Great Adventure in Jackson, New Jersey, United States. Manufactured by Intamin and designed by Werner Stengel, Kingda Ka opened as the tallest and fastest roller coaster in the world on May 21, 2005, surpassing Top Thrill Dragster. Although both featured similar designs, Kingda Ka's layout added an airtime hill on the return portion of the track. It was also the second strata coaster ever built, exceeding 400 feet (120 m) in height.
The ride used a hydraulic launch mechanism to accelerate the train up to 128 mph (206 km/h) in 3.5 seconds. While Formula Rossa at Ferrari World broke its speed record in 2010, Kingda Ka remained the tallest in the world throughout its operational lifespan. The record-breaking coaster featured a 456-foot-tall (139 m) top hat tower with a 418-foot (127 m) drop, which separately ranked as the longest drop in the world.
In November 2024, following months of rumors and speculation regarding the future of the attraction, Six Flags Great Adventure revealed that Kingda Ka had permanently closed. The ride was demolished and removed from the park several months later.


--- [America's Tallest Roller Coaster Crumbles to Ground, Fans Left Devastated] ---
Six Flags has said a permanent farewell to one of its most beloved attractions today. While Six Flags has welcomed numerous iconic coasters over the years, few are as famous as Kingda Ka. Located at Six Flags Great Adventure in New Jersey, the attraction opened in 2005 as the tallest roller coaster in the world (it was previously also the fastest until Formula Rossa opened at Ferrari World in Abu Dhabi). Standing 456 feet high, riders were launched from 0 to 128 mph in just 3.5 seconds, sending them straight up a nearly vertical tower before plummeting down at a staggering 270-degree angle. The thrill factor made it a must-ride for adrenaline junkies looking for an intense experience. While popular, Kingda Ka had a rough history. This started just a month after its 2005 debut when a faulty bolt triggered a major malfunction, knocking out the launch cable and damaging several brake fins. With parts out of stock, Six Flags had to place a special order and put the ride through extensive testing before it could reopen on August 4, 2005, just in time for the summer crowds. The ride continued to face setbacks over the years, including a lightning strike in 2009 that caused significant damage and kept Kingda Ka closed for three months. Then, in 2011, the coaster was hit with further damage ahead of Hurricane Irene, though it’s unclear if the storm played a role. The ride remained off-limits for nearly eight months, only returning for the 2012 season. Even after its lengthy shutdowns, Kingda Ka wasn’t out of the woods. In 2012, a young guest was hospitalized after being struck by a bird mid-ride, adding to the coaster’s checkered history. Jackson Township Police issued a warning last night in which it urged drivers along the Rt. 537 corridor to avoid blocking traffic if they decide to watch the implosion. They also cautioned spectators to keep a safe distance from the site, warning that anyone who attempted to secure a close-up view could face arrest and trespassing charges. NBC10 Philadelphia hosted a live stream for those not in the area hoping to watch the implosion. Various videos of its implosion have since circulated on social media, with guests mourning the loss of the once-great ride. Long live the king 👑 The Kingda Ka roller coaster at Six Flags Great Adventure in New Jersey was brought down in an implosion to make way for a new ride. When it opened in May of 2005, it was the tallest and fastest roller coaster in the world. Long live the king 👑 The Kingda Ka roller coaster at Six Flags Great Adventure in New Jersey was brought down in an implosion to make way for a new ride. When it opened in May of 2005, it was the tallest and fastest roller coaster in the world. https://t.co/ND4WzBlEMKpic.twitter.com/gTXobXEIPQ Fortunately, the plot won’t stand empty for long. Six Flags has confirmed plans to build a “multi-world-record-breaking launch roller coaster” in its place, with an opening date set for some time in 2026.


--- [Location: Six Flags Great Adventure, Jackson, N.J. "The Golden Kingdom ...] ---
Kingda Ka: 2009 Lightning Strike Impact Kingda Ka is a steel accelerator roller coaster located at Six Flags Great Adventure in New Jersey. At 456 feet tall, it was the world's tallest roller coaster and reaches speeds of 128 mph, making it the world's second fastest roller coaster. Riders are launched from 0 to 128 mph in 3.5 seconds up the vertical lift hill before experiencing drops, spirals, and hills along the over 3,000 foot track. Though it faced some incidents like lightning strikes requiring closures for repairs, Kingda Ka broke world records when it opened in 2005 but has since lost the title of fastest roller coaster. Kingda Ka: 2009 Lightning Strike Impact


--- [Kingda Ka Explained] ---
No content


--- [Kingda Ka | The World's Largest Roller Coaster - RankRed] ---
Roller coasters are a staple for amusement parks and theme parks around the world. It won’t be wrong to say that an amusement park is incomplete without a roller coaster. They are a popular source of entertainment. But have you ever wondered, whether as a fan or only out of curiosity, why it’s called a ‘roller coaster’? Well, there is more than one possible reason for it. Many believe the name originated from the United States, where such structures were fitted with rollers on which a sled would coast or sail. Another popular belief is that the name was taken from a roller skating rink situated in Haverhill, Massachusetts, in 1887. The rink featured a traditional sled (toboggan) along with a hundred rollers. The designers of this skating rink argued that they were the first to use the term “roller coaster.” There are numerous famous coasters that attract a large number of tourists around the world. However, there is only one Kingda Ka. Out of all roller coaster rides in the world, nothing comes close to the thrill and excitement of the Six Flags Great Adventure’s main attraction. Table of Contents General Specifications Inaugurated On: May 21, 2005 Length: 950 m (3,118 ft) Height: 139 m (456 ft) Drop: 127 m (418 ft) Maximum vertical angle: 90 degrees Manufacturer: Intamin It is The Tallest and the Second Fastest Roller Coaster in the World Kingda Ka roller coaster | Image Courtesy: Wikimedia Commons Kingda Ka is located at Six Flags Great Adventure theme park in Jackson, New Jersey. It was designed by a renowned German engineer and businessmen, Werner Stengel. After its official launch on May 21, 2005, Kingda Ka became the world’s tallest as well as the fastest roller coaster. Before Kingda Ka, both records were held by Top Thrill Dragster, located in Cedar Point, Ohio. Five years later, however (in 2010), Kingda Ka was ousted as the world’s fastest roller coaster by Formula Rossa (top speed 240 km/h), located at Ferrari World in Abu Dhabi. It remains the world’s tallest roller coaster. With a total height of 139 meters, Kingda Ka is also the second strata coaster (with a height exceeding 120 m) ever built. It also holds the record for the world’s tallest complete circuit coaster and the world’s tallest roller coaster drop. History The plans to construct Kingda Ka was put in place in September 2003. The goal was to erect the world’s fastest as well as the tallest roller coaster with height and speed, similar to what we experience today. The entire complex was completed in less than two years. On August 19, 2013, it was announced that a new drop tower ride would be added to the existing Kingda Ka roller coaster. The drop tower, officially known as Zumanjaro: Drop of Doom, was open for the public for the first time on July 4, 2014. The Drop of Doom features three separate gondola lifts and is integrated into the largest tower. How It’s Like To Ride The World’s Tallest Roller Coaster? After a train is loaded with riders, it slowly moves out of the station all the way to the launch area through the switch tracks. A catch car is then latched under the train, while the breaks that were in place retract. About five seconds before every launch, an announcement is made; “Arms down, head back, hold on!” The ride begins with a powerful launch that takes you 0 to 128 miles per hour (206 km/h) in just 3.5 seconds. The train then climbs the first and tallest hill making a 90-degree vertical spiral. After reaching the maximum height of 457 feet (139 m), it makes a descent of 418 feet (127 m). On its way down, the train undergoes a stomach-churning 270-degree turn. Kingda Ka tower | Image Courtesy: Wikimedia/Dusso Janladde The train climbs the second hill at 129 feet (39 m), before the magnetic brakes kicks-in and subsequently puts the journey to an end. After reaching the top of the second hill, riders experience weightlessness due to negative gravitational force. The entire ride takes about 28 seconds from the start of the finish. Zumanjaro: Drop of Doom, as we mentioned earlier, is an integral part of Kingda Ka, and with the coaster, it’s also the tallest drop tower in the world. The ride operates three gondolas, which are conveyed by catch-cars at the height of 415 feet (126 m) and are then released. In free-fall, the cars drop down at a speed of 90 mph (145 km). A single gondola takes about 30 seconds to ascend and only one-third of that time to descend (10 sec). Coaster Trains and Station Kingda Ka’s overall layout is similar to that of Top Thrill Dragster. It has four operational trains, all numbered and color-coded (green, teal, dark blue, and orange) for easy identification. Each train has five cars attached one after the other, and every car has four seats (or two rows) accept the rear one. A single train can carry 18 riders at a time. However, it can be modified to install two additional seats, bringing the total tally to 20. The station has two platforms served by two parallel tracks with turnout or switch tracks both at the start and exit. However, usually, only one platform or train bay is used. A single platform is designed to accommodate two trains at a time. While the one in front is being loaded/unloaded, the other (in the back) remains on standby. After launch, the train may occasionally experience rollback. A rollback occurs when the train is launched without the necessary speed to climb the top of the tower and descends backward. Kingda Ka utilizes retractable magnetic brakes to prevent the train from rolling back into the station or any potential mishap. Incidents Since its opening in 2005, Kingda Ka has witnessed several minor as well as major incidents. The first significant breakdown occurred only a month after its inauguration when a malfunctioning bolt created friction on the car cable, preventing trains from operating at the correct speed. As a result, the ride was shut down for nearly two months. Kingda Ka suffered severe damage after it was struck by lightning in May of 2009 and was closed for about three months. Hurricane Irene, which hit the Eastern Seaboard of the United States in late August of 2011, caused the ride to be closed for almost a year. Read: 12 Tallest Roller Coasters In The World Some Short Facts 1. The total construction cost of Kingda Ka was about US$25 million. 2. It is a hydraulically launched roller coaster featuring magnetic brakes that allows trains to operate smoothly. It can accelerate from 0 to 128 mph in 3.5 seconds. 3. Kingda Ka is less than one meter taller than the current height of the Great Pyramid of Giza (138.8 meters). 4. At the top of the first hill, riders experience negative G force with varying intensity based on the speed of the launch. 5. The highest G force riders experience at Kingda Ka is 5g, about five times the normal G force on earth. The record for the highest G force on a roller coaster, however, goes to Tower of Terror (6.3 g), located at Gold Reef City in Johannesburg, South Africa. 6. Due to potential risks, the coaster ride never operates in the rain (even during drizzle). 7. The hydraulic launch mechanism of Kingda Ka is capable of generating 20,800 peak horsepower (close to 15.5 MW). 8. The minimum height for an individual allowed to ride the roller coaster is 137 cm (54 in), while the maximum is 196 cm (77 in). It can carry 1,400 riders per hour.
