=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

["House of the Dragon" Driftmark (TV Episode 2022) - Quotes - IMDb]
Princess Helaena Targaryen: Hand turns loom; spool of green, spool of black. Dragons of flesh weaving dragons of thread. Prince Aemond Targaryen: Do not mourn me, Mother. It was a fair exchange. I may have lost an eye, but I gained a dragon. Prince Aemond Targaryen: [after fighting off his cousins ...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt11198348/quotes/

[House of the Dragon S1 E7: "Driftmark" Recap - TV Tropes]
A Handful for an Eye: Aemond loses the upper hand in the children's brawl when he gets sand thrown in his eyes. He Who Fights Monsters: Downplayed to the level of bulling amongst children, but last episode Aemond was the one being mocked for having no dragon.
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Recap/HouseOfTheDragonS1E7Driftmark

["House of the Dragon" Driftmark (TV Episode 2022) - Quotes]
Prince Aemond Targaryen: Do not mourn me, Mother. It was a fair exchange. I may have lost an eye, but I gained a dragon.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt11198348/quotes/?item=qt6544518

[An Eye For an Eye: Inside "House of the Dragon" Episode 7 - The Credits]
An eye for an eye. It's one of the oldest, coldest, cruelest forms of justice, the type of punishment that would, of course, fit perfectly in House of the Dragon. And so it was what Queen Alicent called for after her son, the clearly troubled, dragon-obsessed Prince Aemond (Leo Ashton), lost an eye in a post-dragon-ride scuffle with his half-nephews. Episode 7 began in mourning, with the ...
URL: https://www.motionpictures.org/2022/10/an-eye-for-an-eye-inside-house-of-the-dragon-episode-7/

[Aemond Targaryen | AGOTFEU Wiki | Fandom]
Before the War The Dance of the Dragons Securing the Stormlands Rook's Rest Prince Regent Scouring of the Riverlands Death Legacy Traits Kills Lucerys Velaryon Rhaenys Targaryen Friends and Foes Quotes by Aemond Do not mourn me, mother. It was a fair exchange. I may have lost an eye, but I gained a dragon. ―Aemond to Alicent after losing his ...
URL: https://agotfeu.fandom.com/wiki/Aemond_Targaryen


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ["House of the Dragon" Driftmark (TV Episode 2022) - Quotes - IMDb] ---
- Princess Helaena Targaryen: Hand turns loom; spool of green, spool of black. Dragons of flesh weaving dragons of thread. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: Do not mourn me, Mother. It was a fair exchange. I may have lost an eye, but I gained a dragon. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: The crown was yours until those fools at the Great Council plucked it from your head. Is it such a terrible thing for your husband to wish to win it back? - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: Tonight of all nights, let us lay aside this falsehood. It is not justice for your wife that drives you. It is your own ambition. 'Tis desire for the throne. If not for yourself, then for the scions of your house. I gave up the idea of wearing a crown a generation ago. It is you, lord husband, who refuses to abandon this pursuit, even now, at the cost of our children. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: What is this brief mortal life if not the pursuit of legacy? - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: Legacy may be why you live your life, Corlys. I want Driftmark to pass through Laena's line to Baela. To true Velaryon blood. Declare it now, while all are gathered here, and we will say that is how we will honor Laena's memory. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: And disinherit our son? - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: He will be the King Consort. His son will one day sit the Iron Throne. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: You would have me cast an even darker shadow over those little boys than already exists. - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: We are alone here, husband. You can speak the plain truth as we both know it. Rhaenyra's children are not of your blood. But Laena's are. They are her legacy. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: History does not remember blood. It remembers names. - Queen Alicent Hightower: I disgraced myself. And ensured my husband's favor will forever rest on her. - Ser Otto Hightower: And yet I've never seen that side of you, my daughter. I even doubted its existence. - Queen Alicent Hightower: It was an ugly thing. I regret it. - Ser Otto Hightower: We play an ugly game. And now, for the first time, I see that you have the determination to win it. - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: [Rhaenyra struggles with Alicent] You've gone too far! - Queen Alicent Hightower: I? What have I done, but what was expected of me? Forever upholding the kingdom, the family, the law, while you flout all to do as you please! - King Viserys I Targaryen: Alicent, let her go! - Queen Alicent Hightower: Where is duty? Where is sacrifice? It's trampled under your pretty foot again! - Ser Otto Hightower: Release the blade, Alicent! - Queen Alicent Hightower: And now you take my son's eye, and to even that, you feel entitled. - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: [Still struggling] Exhausting, wasn't it? Hiding beneath the cloak of your own righteousness. - [whispers] - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: But now they see you as you are. - [Alicent cuts Rhaenyra deeply to everyone's horror] - Prince Aemond Targaryen: You will die screaming in flames just as your father did! Bastards. - Prince Lucerys 'Luke' Velaryon: [crying] My father's still alive. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: [to Jace] He doesn't know, does he, Lord Strong? - Lady Rhaena Targaryen: Vhagar is my mother's dragon. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: Your mother's dead. And Vhagar has a new rider now. - Lady Rhaena Targaryen: She was mine to claim. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: Then you should've claimed her! Maybe your cousins can find you a pig to ride. It would suit you. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: [after fighting off his cousins] Come at me again and I'll feed you to my dragon! - Prince Aegon Targaryen: [about Helaena] We have nothing in common. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: She is our sister. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: You marry her, then. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: I would perform my duty, if Mother had only betrothed us. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: If only. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: It would strengthen the family; keep our Valyrian blood pure. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: She is an idiot. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: She is your future queen. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: We actually do have one thing in common. We both fancy creatures with very long legs. - Ser Laenor Velaryon: I should've been there. - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: Those should be our house words.


--- [House of the Dragon S1 E7: "Driftmark" Recap - TV Tropes] ---
The royal family has gathered at the Velaryon seat, Driftmark, to pay their respects to the deceased Laena. Tensions run high after the funeral, and it becomes apparent that the Velaryons too doubt the legitimacy of Rhaenyra's sons. Viserys asks Daemon to return to court, while Aegon expresses distaste at the idea of marrying Helaena. Later that night, Rhaenys asks Corlys to give up his quest for the Iron Throne and to pass over Laenor and Lucerys for inheriting Driftmark in favor of Laena's daughter Baela, but Corlys disagrees. Rhaenyra reconnects with Daemon and sleeps with him on the beach. Meanwhile, Aemond sneaks outside and claims Laena's dragon Vhagar. Baela and Rhaena see Vhagar take flight from the window and inform Jace and Luke, who investigate alongside them. Aemond attacks the cousin and a fight breaks out. Aemond calls Jace and Luke bastards, and after Aemond threatens to crush Jace's head with a rock in the ensuing scuffle, Lucerys grabs a knife and slashes out Aemond's eye. The children are brought before their parents while a maester tends to Aemond's eye. A furious Alicent demands retribution for her son, but Viserys tries to put the matter to bed. Rhaenyra tells her father that her sons' legitimacy was called into question; Aegon responds to Viserys's subsequent interrogation by saying the Velaryon boys' paternity is an open secret. Alicent refuses to back down, first demanding Lucerys's eye from the Kingsguard, then taking Viserys's dagger and attacking the family herself. Rhaenyra tries to hold her back and talk her down, and is slashed in the arm for her troubles. Aemond then says that an eye was a fair price to pay for gaining Vhagar, and the family bitterly disperses. The next day, Alicent is visited by her father, who commends her on her mettle. Laenor comes to Rhaenyra and commits to being a better husband. In private, Rhaenyra suggests to Daemon that they marry and present a united front against Alicent and her supporters. This plan would require the death of her current husband, but Daemon arranges to have Laenor fake his death so he and his lover Qarl can run away to the Free Cities. The two men depart on an eastbound ship, and Rhaenyra and Daemon are wed in a Valyrian-style ceremony with only their respective children in attendance. Tropes in this episode: - Adaptational Context Change: Aemond's "fair exchange" line is substantially reframed. The book took the line at face value; the show gives it pathos. In the book, the line goes: "Prince Aemond said later that he lost an eye and gained a dragon that day, and counted it a fair exchange." The implication is that he literally thought it was Worth It. It's different in the show. Alicent is demanding that Viserys care about their maimed son; Viserys has made it very clear that he doesn't and won't. This is a lost cause and perusing it further will not end well for them. So Aemond says, "Do not mourn me, Mother. It was a fair exchange. I may have lost an eye, but I gained a dragon," — to get Alicent to stop, to defuse the situation, and to appear strong in front of the people who would wish him ill. - Adaptational Jerkass: - Daemon and Rhaenyra always get together tactlessly soon after Laena's death, but the show dials up it even further. In the book they get together within 6 months. In the show Daemon has sex with another woman at his wife's funeral. - In the book Aemond claimed Vhagar at Laenor's funeral. Claiming Vhagar at the funeral of Laena, her previous rider, makes him seem more insensitive. - In the book Viserys made the children exchange perfunctory apologies. In the show he doesn't even do that, driving home the point of just how little he cares about Aemond. - Adaptational Villainy: - In the book Alicent did demand Luke lose an eye in repayment for Aemond's, but that was as far as it went. Here, she goes a little further by trying to enforce this personally when no one else will. - The camerawork and editing frame Alicent as more violent than Rhaenyra. They both have lines in which they call for violence toward a child — "Aemond must be sharply questioned," and "I will have one of her sons eyes in return." But Alicent's line is lingered on, while Rhaenyra's is not. Rhaenyra also uses a euphemism that's established in the books as meaning "torture," but which hasn't been used in the show before and which not all viewers will understand. This together add up to Alicent's threat being framed as more dangerous than Rhaenyra's, when on paper they're much more analogous. - Ambiguous Situation: - Alicent asks Criston to cut out Lucerys's eye. There's a tense moment when both the audience and the other characters aren't sure how he'll respond. Then he refuses, naming his role as protector as the reason. Does he mean he Wouldn't Hurt a Child because that's attacking rather than protecting? Or does he mean he is protecting Alicent — in this context, protecting her from her own impulsive rage because publicly asking for this can't end well for her?Alicent: No, you are sworn to me! Criston: [beat] As your protector, my Queen. - When Rhaenyra tasks Daemon with killing Laenor, it is unclear if faking his death was part of her plan all along, or if she really did want her husband dead (a level of ruthlessness never before seen in her). She does say that "sea is an escape", and Laenor and Qarl escape by sea. However, the dead of House Velaryon are given Burial at Sea, so she could have just as easily been referring to that. - Alicent asks Criston to cut out Lucerys's eye. There's a tense moment when both the audience and the other characters aren't sure how he'll respond. Then he refuses, naming his role as protector as the reason. Does he mean he Wouldn't Hurt a Child because that's attacking rather than protecting? Or does he mean he is protecting Alicent — in this context, protecting her from her own impulsive rage because publicly asking for this can't end well for her? - Ancestral Weapon: Played with. Rhaena feels that she — as Laena's daughter — should be Vhagar's next rider, and is enraged when Aemond claims her. This isn't accurate; dragons are living creatures who pick their own riders.Rhaena: Vhagar is my mother's dragon. Aemond: Your mother's dead. And Vhagar has a new rider now. Rhaena: She was mine to claim. Aemond: Then you should've claimed her! - Armor-Piercing Response: Rhaenyra gives a biting statement to Alicent when grappling over the Valyrian dagger, provoked by Alicent's own Motive Rant, which was full of its own rhetorical questions and accusations. It causes the single minded Alicent to slash Rhaenyra with the knife in a moment of rage, before shocking her into dropping the knife with a My God, What Have I Done? look on her face; Rhaenyra's words hit a bit too close to the truth for Alicent.Rhaenyra: (with a Single Tear in her left eye) Exhausting, wasn't it? Hiding beneath the cloak of your own righteousness. But now they see you as you are. - Arranged Marriage: As Viserys's eldest son, Aegon has been betrothed to his sister Helaena per Targaryen tradition. This is to his dismay as he thinks she's a simpleton and they have no interests in common. - Art Imitates Art: The artistic style of the horse toy Lucerys is seen playing with after the funeral of Laena looks Etruscan. - Beach Kiss: Daemon and Rhaenyra's reunion ends up with them snogging, then having sex on, the beach. - Big Brother Instinct: - Inverted. Elder brother Aegon is rude and dismissive about Helaena, while her younger brother Aemond is protective of her. - Sister variant. When Aemond slams Rhaena to the ground, Rhaena's sister Baela punches him in the face in retaliation. - Bittersweet Ending: The episode ends with Laenor and Qarl free to be together, but Laenor had to break his parents' hearts by letting them think that not only did they lose a child, but their last surviving child. The two men can never see their families again, and they killed an innocent guard to pass off as a dead Laenor. As they leave Driftmark, they exchange glances knowing that their freedom came at a heavy cost. - Blood Oath: Daemon and Rhaenyra's wedding is a Valyrian-style ceremony that involves Palm Bloodletting and then clasping hands.Rhaenyra: Let us bind our blood, just as Aegon the Conqueror did with his sisters. - Bloody Horror: Aemond's stitched eye and the stitched wound on Rhaenyra's arm are not pretty sights. - Burial at Sea: Laena's remains are committed to the deep, as per House Velaryon tradition. - Call-Forward: The scene following Aemond's blinding has several elements resembling a similar situation in Game of Thrones season 1, episode 2 when Joffrey got wounded by Arya's direwolf and she and Sansa had to answer before the king and queen: - A royal prince (Aemond/Joffrey) is wounded in a scuffle between him and the children of another noble family close to the crown. He is outnumbered, stronger, more violent, and at one point has the upper hand before one of the other children wounds him. However, here the prince is being stoic and not a snivelling coward. - The queen(Alicent/Cersei) fiercely demands extreme punishment as justice for her son. - The king (Viserys/Robert) is rather apathetic to the whole thing and just wants to finish the argument. In the end, his solution is an injustice. - When one of the kids' older sibling (Aegon/Sansa) gets questioned, they shirk responsibility and act oblivious. - The whole incident serves to drive a wedge between the two families down the line, especially between the prince and the child who wounded him (Aemond and Lucerys/Joffrey and Arya) as well as their more proactive parents (Alicent and Rhaenyra /Cersei and Ned). - Cold-Blooded Torture: Implied. In the books, the phrase "questioned sharply" is used exclusively as a euphemism to refer to torture.Rhaenyra: My sons are in line to inherit the Iron Throne, Your Grace. This is the highest of treasons. Prince Aemond must be sharply questioned so we might learn where he heard such slanders. - Comforting the Widow: Daemon and Rhaenyra have sex on the beach of Driftmark right after the funeral of Daemon's second wife Laena. Not only are they uncle and niece, but Rhaenyra herself is still married, albeit to a gay man who was just as unhappy with their farce of a marriage as she was (and the brother of the woman whose funeral they're attending). - Death Faked for You: Qarl and Laenor fake Laenor's death, after which they escape to the Free Cities together. - Decoy Getaway: The burnt body in the fireplace is assumed to be Laenor's, but was actually that of a hapless guard whose neck Daemon snapped. - Disproportionate Retribution: Aemond is still sore about the pig prank Jace and Luke pulled—something he viewed as cruel and something they merely viewed as funny. His response is threatening to feed them to Vhagar. - Don't Clear My Name: Rhaenyra helps her gay husband fake his death and run away so she can remarry her Old Flame Daemon. Contextually, it looks more than a little bit like they killed him a la Divorce Requires Death. They lean into this:Rhaenyra: The realm will whisper that I was somehow responsible.Daemon: Let them whisper. We will know the truth of it, and our enemies won't.Rhaenyra: They will fear what else we might be capable of. - Doting Grandparent: Rhaenys is very close with her granddaughters this episode. Most conspicuously, in the aftermath of the children's fight when all the parents come in, it's she — not Daemon — who acts like the twins' parent. Alicent is standing with her boys; Rhaenyra comes in and runs to her sons; Rhaenys and Corlys arrive and girls run to Rhaenys. It's her they hug, it's her they're talking to, it's she who stands with them throughout the whole scene. When Daemon arrives, he stands in the corner and makes no move to reach out to his daughters, nor them to him. - Elopement: Downplayed, but Rhaenyra and Daemon have a small wedding with only their children and the officiant in attendance. Viserys certainly does not know this is happening. - Everyone Has Standards: - Corlys knows full well that none of Rhaenyra's children are legitimate, but still refuses his wife's suggestion to name Baela heir to Driftmark over her cousin Luke. Although Corlys is heavily motivated by ambition as well, he points out that Rhaenyra's reputation is bad enough as it is; openly disinheriting Luke would put Rhaenyra's children in disgrace and potential danger for something they're entirely innocent of. - Criston Cole is deeply bitter against both Rhaenyra and her children, but balks when Alicent demands that he take Luke's eye, particularly against the King's express commands. He makes clear that he's sworn as her protector, but not about to defy his King and mutilate a child. - Even Otto, who later praises Alicent for her actions during the altercation, seems shocked by her demand of an eye for an eye. - Eye Scream: Luke slashes Aemond's eye while defending Jace, Baela, and Rhaena. The eye proves damaged beyond repair. - Family Disunion: The nascent feud between Aemond and the children of Rhaenyra and the Velaryons while the extended family is gathered at Laena's Burial at Sea extends to the adults, with Alicent reaching a boiling point against Rhaenyra and her side of the family. - Fire/Water Juxtaposition: Discussed by Rhaenyra. Her family is innately aligned with fire, but the Velaryons' element is water, and she ponders the meaning of both.Rhaenyra: Fire is such strange power. Everything that House Targaryen possesses is owed to it. Yet it has cost us both what we loved. Daemon: Perhaps the Velaryons knew the truth of it: the sea is the better ally. Rhaenyra: Fire is a prison. The sea offers an escape. - Flames of Love:Rhaenyra: [to Daemon] You and I are made of fire. We have always been meant to burn together. - Flynning: Invoked by Laenor and Qarl. Qarl slashes to the left, but hacks into a chair right after punching Laenor on the right, then repeatedly hits Laenor's sword despite him barely moving it. It's Bad "Bad Acting". These details let the audience see they are putting on a show rather than actually trying to hurt each other — something the witnessing pageboy is too freaked out to realize. - Foil: - Jace complains to his mom that it's unfair Baela and Rhaena get to receive everyone's comfort at this funeral, while he, who also just lost a parent (Harwin Strong), does not. This is poignantly illustrated in the following scene where Rhaenys comes to hug her granddaughters, while Jace turns away and hides his face so no one can see how sad and alone he is. - In the big confrontation scene between families, the camerawork and choreography draw direct parallels between Criston and Daemon. When Alicent draws the blade, Criston tries to go to her and Daemon intercepts him. The two men are locked together for a moment until Westerling has two other Kingsguard separate them. Then, after Viserys declares, "This proceeding is at an end," both men go to their ladies' sides. The scene ends with a Shot/Reverse Shot contrasting the trio of Rhaenyra-Luke-Daemon with the trio of Alicent-Aemond-Criston. An angry mom, an beat-up and overwhelmed son clinging to her, and a violent father-figure standing protectively beside them. - Full Moon Silhouette: There's a shot of Aemond and Vhagar eclipsing the Frequently Full Moon on their flight. - Gayngst: Laenor expresses discontent with his sexuality because he wasn't able to sire legitimate children or be the husband that he thought Rhaenyra deserved. Rhaenyra reassures him that he is a good man regardless. - Grey-and-Gray Morality: In the fight between the royal children, nobody comes off particularly well. First, Aemond sneaks out and claims Vhagar in the middle of the night. This is fair game, albeit somewhat impolite since they're at the funeral of her previous rider. Then Rhaena seeks Aemond out and accuses him (without grounds) of "stealing" Vhagar. Aemond dismisses her accusations with some cruel words. Rhaena rushes him and starts the physical fight. This escalates to Aemond threatening to feed all the others to his dragon. The rest all gang up against Aemond, four to one, and beat him pretty ruthlessly and Kick Him While He's Down. When Aemond gets back up, he prepares to brain Luke with a rock — to which Jace responds by bringing out a knife. It's all pretty ugly. On top of that, they're all triggering each other's personal emotional pain points: Rhaena picking a fight with Aemond over a really impressive feat he's duly proud of; Aemond dismissing of Rhaena's grief at losing her mother and mocking her for not having a dragon; Aemond taunting the Strong boys both about being illegitimate and about losing their biological father. The mitigating factor for all involved is that they're children (an excuse that their parents do not have). - A Handful for an Eye: Aemond loses the upper hand in the children's brawl when he gets sand thrown in his eyes. - He Who Fights Monsters: Downplayed to the level of bulling amongst children, but last episode Aemond was the one being mocked for having no dragon. This episode he's the one mocking Rhaena for having no dragon. - Hope Spot: During the wake, Jace and Aemond meet each other's eyes. It seems like they want to reach out to each other, that they might... but then they don't. This is made extra sad because it stands in such contrast to all the other scenes the two boys share. When Aegon wants to make fun of Aemond, Jace goes along with it. When Rhaena accuses Aemond of stealing Vhagar, Jace goes along with it. Jace is never going to stick up for Aemond, and yet — when it's just the two of them — he doesn't want to antagonize him. (For extra sad points, consider that they're the closest in age of all the boys, which might've set them up to be friends had things been different.) - Hypocrite: - Corlys Velaryon is still outraged that Rhaenys was denied the throne specifically for being a woman — but in the exact same conversation — refuses his wife's request to give his own ancestral seat to his granddaughters. - As a girl, Rhaenyra was livid at the woman who rapidly remarried her widowed father immediately after her mother's death. Now she is the woman rapidly remarrying a man whose wife died very recently. - Important Haircut: After faking his death, Laenor shaves off his distinct white locks so that he and Qarl can be anonymous in Essos. - Ironic Juxtaposition: During the dagger showdown, Alicent accuses Rhaenyra of flippantly disregarding duty, while Alicent, in contrast, is "Forever upholding the kingdom, the family, the law." Those lines are spoken while the camera turns to the prophesy dagger, silhouetted against the fire—the symbol of the Targaryen duties that Rhaenyra knows about and is mindful of, and which Alicent knows nothing about. - Irony: - The young Aemond speaks of Aegon and Helaena's marriage as "keeping their Valyrian bloodline pure"—conveniently forgetting that by being descendants of a Hightower, they are not, strictly speaking, purely-Valyrian at all. - Viserys has changed his tune since episode 1:Viserys: Tongues will not change the succession. Let them wag. [later] Viserys: And let it be known, anyone whose tongue dares to question the birth of Princess Rhaenyra's sons should have it removed! - It's All About Me: Rhaenys calls out Corlys on being Secretly Selfish. He is still sore about her getting passed over as queen regnant long after she herself has made peace with it, and she deduces that he's not upset on her behalf but because he wanted to be king consort. He also wants to name Rhaenyra and Laenor's secondborn son Luke as heir to Driftmark rather than Baela or Rhaena, his only biological grandchildren, because Luke would at least keep the Velaryon name alive, which matters more to Corlys than the actual bloodline. In fairness, Corlys does also bring up the point that disinheriting Luke is more or less publicly confirming his illegitimacy, which will put him and his siblings in danger. - Jerkass Has a Point: - While Aemond is quite cruel to Rhaena after claiming Vhagar, he's not wrong that he has just as much a right to try to claim her as anyone. Dragons have never been treated as an inheritance and whom they'll accept as their rider is often a crapshoot. (Given Vhagar's rider prior to Laena was Aemond's own grandfather Baelon, arguing inheritance would get messy.) - Aemond calling Jace and Luke bastards is clearly a Kick the Dog moment, but as Aegon later points out when Viserys questions him, it's an Open Secret that anyone with eyes can figure out.Aegon: Father... we know. Everyone knows. Just look at them. - Karma Houdini: Luke maims Aemond for life and doesn't any sort of punishment whatsoever, not even a perfunctory scolding. Alicent is so infuriated by this it becomes a Rage Breaking Point. - Kick Them While They Are Down: During the fight between the kids, at one point Jace, Baela, and Rhaena are pummeling a downed Aemond all at once while Luke watches on. - Law of Inverse Fertility: It's discussed how Rhaenyra and Laenor tried to conceive children together, but to no avail. It doesn't sound like they tried that much, though, and conceiving a child can sometimes take a while, so that makes it look Justified.Rhaenyra: I had hoped to bear your children, the few times we lay together. - Literal Metaphor: When Aemond's eye is cut out by Lucerys, Alicent tries to order that his eye be cut out in exchange, literally demanding an eye for an eye. - Locked Out of the Loop: Lucerys doesn't yet know that Harwin Strong is his biological father and not Laenor Velaryon; when Aemond taunts him about Harwin's death, Lucerys is confused and shouts back that his father is still alive. - Longing Look: Daemon eyes up Rhaenyra at his own wife's funeral. - Machiavelli Was Wrong: Discussed by Rhaenyra and Daemon.Rhaenyra: I will not be a tyrant and rule through terror. Daemon: A tyrant rules only through terror. If the king isn't feared, he is powerless. If you are to be a strong queen, you must cultivate love and respect, yes, but your subjects must fear you. Rhaenyra: [...] The realm will whisper that I was somehow responsible. Daemon: Let them whisper. We will know the truth of it, and our enemies won't. Rhaenyra: They will fear what else we might be capable of. - Major Injury Underreaction: Even getting a scratch on the eye is incredibly painful, so much so that people often become delirious or pass out. Aemond's eye was basically sliced open, yet he's wide awake as the physician sews up his wound. In reality that would induce profuse sweating, uncontrollable shaking, and screaming, before eventually making him pass out. The lack of this—the fact that Aemond himself seems to be taking the loss pretty well—serves the show's pro-Rhaenyra framing. If we saw Aemond suffer like that and Viserys dismiss it, it would be far harder to claim Alicent's being unreasonable. - Mama Bear: The dispute over the children's fight focuses into a direct conflict between the two mothers of the aggrieved and even comes to blows. - Motive Rant: Alicent lets out a stream of raw, rage-filled questions and accusations when trying to cut Luke's eye and grappling with Rhaenyra. It reveals a mix of sympathetic and less sympathetic motives. She's terrified about her children's safety, furious at how Rhaenyra got to break or ignore traditions that have traumatized Alicent, and bitterly jealous — her marriage to Viserys took her youth away from her while Rhaenyra got to have love affairs resulting in love children, whose existence Alicent feels rubs salt in the wound of the threat to her own children. - Nominal Importance: The guard who dies in Laenor's stead has no name and thus no value. - OOC Is Serious Business: During the eye-for-an-eye showdown, Aemond passes the hot potato of bastardy allegations to Aegon. The obvious next move here is for Aegon to pass it on to Alicent — but he doesn't. He defuses the allegation insofar as it can be. He confronts his father and he fulfills Alicent's teaching that "in the world we must defend our own." Under pressure, Aegon rises to the occasion and exhibits more bravery, composure, and loyalty than we've yet seen from him.Viserys: And you, boy? Where did you hear such calumnies? [yelling in his face] Aegon! Tell me the truth of it! Aegon: We know, Father. Everyone knows. Just look at them. - Old Flame: This episode plays the relationship between Daemon and Rhaenyra this way. Their feelings for each other are still there, and they still fall into each other's arms, but it's different now. The passage of time has tempered things a little bit. They're still just a crazy about each other as they were a decade ago, but the manner of it is less frenzied. Last time they almost had sex it was public, showy, and fevered, whereas now its private and solemn. - Open Secret: Viserys demands to know the source of the ugly rumor about Rhaenyra's sons and is stunned to learn that everyone has been whispering about it. - Outliving One's Offspring: Subverted; Laenor lives and runs away with Qarl to Essos, but leaves Rhaenys and Corlys believing that they have lost their last living child. - Plot Parallel: - Both factions claim a formidable ally for their side: Aemond claims Vhagar for the Greens and Rhaenyra claims Daemon for the Blacks. Both Daemon and Vhagar were once Laena's. Both Daemon and Vhagar are someone, not something, and thus cannot be stolen—they're taken with their own consent. Still, there's a bit of a tactless, Robbing the Dead aspect to taking a dead woman's husband and dragon on the very night of her funeral. It would've been polite for both Rhaenyra and Aemond to wait a bit longer. As for the difference half of the foil, the degree of disrespect differs by a lot. On the "takers'" side, Aemond is just a kid and he'd never even met Laena, while Rhaenyra is an adult who actually knew her cousin. On the "takens'" side, Vhagar is a dragon and is not expected to obey human social customs, while Daemon is a human who is on the hook for being On the Rebound at his wife's funeral. - Putting aside the whole faked death thing for a moment, Rhaenyra wanting to widow herself in order to marry Daemon parallels Daemon widowing himself to try to marry Rhaenyra in episode 5. It's Divorce Requires Death and a willingness to actually do that. Add to this that Rhaenyra's proposal includes lines about how they should be together because they are alike. - Laenor running off to the Free Cities with Qarl was exactly what Criston wanted to do with Rhaenyra. It seems fitting that Laenor was the one to get this outcome considering Criston had killed Laenor's first lover. - Pragmatic Adaptation: - Laenor getting Spared by the Adaptation avoids both the narrative redundancy as well as the problematic implications of another gay character (not to mention, one of the few people of color on the show) being killed by a jealous man in a fit of rage in the span of two episodes. - In Fire & Blood, the events that cost Aemond one of his eyes take place at Laenor's funeral rather than Laena's, the twins aren't involved, and it's a slightly-older Joffrey Velaryon who spots Aemond trying to claim Vhagar. The show adding the twins to this situation is a good change: The Strong boys had no reason to object to Aemond claiming Vhagar other than a generalized dislike for him, whereas it makes sense for Rhaena and Baela to want to hold onto Vhagar as a vestige of their late mother. The fight also serves as a chance for the four soon-to-be stepsiblings to stand by each other and bond. - Reaction Shot: The framing of Daemon and Rhaenyra's wedding is romantic — shot lovingly, with a beautiful musical score. Then halfway through the ceremony, there's a shot of their kids. All four of them look angry and/or miserable. Jace, Baela, and Rhaena are glaring at their parents. Little Luke is staring at the ground and getting a side-hug from the maester. - Shot/Countershot: Two groups face each other—one composed of Rhaenyra, Luke, and Daemon, and the other comprising Alicent, Aemond, and Criston. After almost coming to blows and Viserys ending the trial, the camera briefly alternates on each trio. Furthermore, their positions are paralleled. - Ruling Couple: Invoked. Rhaenyra proposes to Daemon not only because she's crazy about him but also because she wants to rule together. - Ship Tease: - Larys is looking at Alicent in what could be a Longing Look (albeit of the Kubrick Stare variety). Criston Lampshades it, and also acts like a bit of a jealous boyfriend himself in response.Criston: Lyonel Strong's son's been staring at you since the moment we arrived, Your Grace. Unabashedly. - Ser Harrold seems to be trying to tactfully suggest to Viserys that perhaps Alicent and Criston shouldn't spend so much time together, particularly at night. Viserys doesn't go for it.Ser Harrold: Shall I see after Queen Alicent, Your Grace? Viserys: No, Ser Harrold. You have the night's watch, Ser Criston. - Aemond says he would willingly marry Helaena. The phrase "if only" makes it sound wistful, more like a crush and less like duty.Aegon: You marry her, then. Aemond: I would perform my duty, if Mother had only betrothed us. - Larys is looking at Alicent in what could be a Longing Look (albeit of the Kubrick Stare variety). Criston Lampshades it, and also acts like a bit of a jealous boyfriend himself in response. - Shoot the Dog: The feud between Rhaenyra and Alicent's children reaches a boiling point, and so to quell the crisis, Viserys decrees that anyone who questions the legitimacy of Rhaenyra's sons will have their tongues removed. While this may quickly dispel the spread of the rumors, the problem is at this point, everyone at court — including Viserys himself — knows the rumors are true. This not only predictably worsens the relationship between his two families, but also makes his Parental Favoritism towards Rhaenyra obvious and arguably tyrannical. - Skyward Scream: Rhaenys lets out a howl of anguish when she discovers what she believes to be the corpse of her son Laenor. - So Proud of You: Otto praises his daughter Alicent for her determination in seeking justice for her son's lost eye, telling her that he saw a side of her he had doubted she possessed and that Alicent may have what it takes to win the game of thrones after all. It's in the flavor of Teach Him Anger, except that it was something that happened spontaneously and without prompting. - Spared by the Adaptation: Instead of being killed by Qarl, Laenor fakes his death and escapes with him to the Free Cities. One source in Fire & Blood claims that Qarl was bribed by Daemon to dispose of Laenor and then murdered to conceal the truth, but here he definitely survives as well. - Stealth Insult: Vaemond Velaryon spends a good chunk of his speech at Laena's funeral speaking about the importance of the Velaryon bloodline, and about how Laena left two trueborn daughters (the keyword here being true), in a clear attempt to bash Rhaenyra and her sons. - Strong Family Resemblance: Viserys notes to Daemon that Baela and Rhaena are the spitting image of their mother Laena and likens that to how Rhaenyra reminds him of his own first wife Aemma.Viserys: Your girls are the very image of their mother. A comfort and an anguish, as I well remember. - Suicide by Sea: When Laenor is seen crying in the sea at Laena's funeral, it Implies this could be on the table. To Defy that, Corlys sends Qarl to bring him back safely. - Tongue Trauma: Viserys threatens to inflict this on anyone who accuses his grandsons of being bastards.Viserys: Let it be known: anyone whose tongue dares to question the birth of Princess Rhaenyra's sons should have it removed. - Took a Level in Badass: After being the Butt-Monkey in the prior episode, Aemond claims a dragon, and the biggest dragon in the world at that. It fills him with a newfound confidence, and he's suddenly unwilling to take any shit or let himself be pushed around anymore. This plays out as him lashing out and bite back at other children in pretty harsh ways. - Took a Level in Jerkass: Viserys goes from a generally absentee dad to pointedly refusing to do anything about about his son being maimed. - Ultimate Job Security: Aemond, Jace, and Luke are all able to sneak away without any adults' knowledge. Viserys asks the Kingsguard, "Who had the watch?" but the question is never directly answered. While there are 7 knights, the only ones we know of during the episode are Harrold and Criston, making them the only real options from a Rule of Perception standpoint. We explicitly hear Criston be assigned to guard Alicent for the night, so it can't be him. So it appears either Harrold was on guard and he let his guard down when he thought the boys were asleep, or he made some sort of scheduling oversight as Commander and didn't post anyone on guard. While Viserys is momentarily angry, there are no consequences for any of the Kingsguard. In Real Life, child caretakers easily lose their jobs over considerably milder injuries happening under their watch. Justified since Viserys has a track record for not taking appropriately strong action in response to… almost anything, really. In this case he clearly wanted to brush the whole incident under the rug as quickly as possible, and casting for a new Kingsguard has been shown to be a high-profile event. Viserys's lack of action in response to his son's maiming could also be considered Played for Drama.Viserys: How could you allow such a thing to happen? I will have answers. Harrold: The princes were supposed to be abed, my king. - Wrong-Name Outburst: While leaving Laena's wake, shortly after attempting to console Daemon by bringing up his own experience with losing a wife, Viserys accidentally calls his second wife Alicent by his late first wife's name, Aemma. Ser Harrold tries to indirectly correct him.Viserys: I'm going to bed, Aemma. Ser Harrold: Shall I see after Queen Alicent, Your Grace? - Your Approval Fills Me with Shame: Doubling as a subtle but vicious Mood Whiplash when, only moments after Otto Hightower finally praises Alicent for showing the determination needed to survive and win the conflict ahead, he gloats that gaining command of Vhagar for their faction was worth the loss of Aemond's eye. Alicent's horror at this ruthlessness quite visibly wipes out whatever happiness Otto's commendation gave.


--- ["House of the Dragon" Driftmark (TV Episode 2022) - Quotes] ---
Shared with you - Queen Alicent Hightower: I disgraced myself. And ensured my husband's favor will forever rest on her. - Ser Otto Hightower: And yet I've never seen that side of you, my daughter. I even doubted its existence. - Queen Alicent Hightower: It was an ugly thing. I regret it. - Ser Otto Hightower: We play an ugly game. And now, for the first time, I see that you have the determination to win it. - Princess Helaena Targaryen: Hand turns loom; spool of green, spool of black. Dragons of flesh weaving dragons of thread. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: Do not mourn me, Mother. It was a fair exchange. I may have lost an eye, but I gained a dragon. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: The crown was yours until those fools at the Great Council plucked it from your head. Is it such a terrible thing for your husband to wish to win it back? - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: Tonight of all nights, let us lay aside this falsehood. It is not justice for your wife that drives you. It is your own ambition. 'Tis desire for the throne. If not for yourself, then for the scions of your house. I gave up the idea of wearing a crown a generation ago. It is you, lord husband, who refuses to abandon this pursuit, even now, at the cost of our children. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: What is this brief mortal life if not the pursuit of legacy? - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: Legacy may be why you live your life, Corlys. I want Driftmark to pass through Laena's line to Baela. To true Velaryon blood. Declare it now, while all are gathered here, and we will say that is how we will honor Laena's memory. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: And disinherit our son? - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: He will be the King Consort. His son will one day sit the Iron Throne. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: You would have me cast an even darker shadow over those little boys than already exists. - Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: We are alone here, husband. You can speak the plain truth as we both know it. Rhaenyra's children are not of your blood. But Laena's are. They are her legacy. - Lord Corlys Velaryon: History does not remember blood. It remembers names. - Queen Alicent Hightower: I disgraced myself. And ensured my husband's favor will forever rest on her. - Ser Otto Hightower: And yet I've never seen that side of you, my daughter. I even doubted its existence. - Queen Alicent Hightower: It was an ugly thing. I regret it. - Ser Otto Hightower: We play an ugly game. And now, for the first time, I see that you have the determination to win it. - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: [Rhaenyra struggles with Alicent] You've gone too far! - Queen Alicent Hightower: I? What have I done, but what was expected of me? Forever upholding the kingdom, the family, the law, while you flout all to do as you please! - King Viserys I Targaryen: Alicent, let her go! - Queen Alicent Hightower: Where is duty? Where is sacrifice? It's trampled under your pretty foot again! - Ser Otto Hightower: Release the blade, Alicent! - Queen Alicent Hightower: And now you take my son's eye, and to even that, you feel entitled. - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: [Still struggling] Exhausting, wasn't it? Hiding beneath the cloak of your own righteousness. - [whispers] - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: But now they see you as you are. - [Alicent cuts Rhaenyra deeply to everyone's horror] - Prince Aemond Targaryen: You will die screaming in flames just as your father did! Bastards. - Prince Lucerys 'Luke' Velaryon: [crying] My father's still alive. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: [to Jace] He doesn't know, does he, Lord Strong? - Lady Rhaena Targaryen: Vhagar is my mother's dragon. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: Your mother's dead. And Vhagar has a new rider now. - Lady Rhaena Targaryen: She was mine to claim. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: Then you should've claimed her! Maybe your cousins can find you a pig to ride. It would suit you. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: [after fighting off his cousins] Come at me again and I'll feed you to my dragon! - Prince Aegon Targaryen: [about Helaena] We have nothing in common. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: She is our sister. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: You marry her, then. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: I would perform my duty, if Mother had only betrothed us. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: If only. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: It would strengthen the family; keep our Valyrian blood pure. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: She is an idiot. - Prince Aemond Targaryen: She is your future queen. - Prince Aegon Targaryen: We actually do have one thing in common. We both fancy creatures with very long legs. - Ser Laenor Velaryon: I should've been there. - Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen: Those should be our house words.


--- [An Eye For an Eye: Inside "House of the Dragon" Episode 7 - The Credits] ---
An Eye For an Eye: Inside “House of the Dragon” Episode 7 An eye for an eye. It’s one of the oldest, coldest, cruelest forms of justice, the type of punishment that would, of course, fit perfectly in House of the Dragon. And so it was what Queen Alicent called for after her son, the clearly troubled, dragon-obsessed Prince Aemond (Leo Ashton), lost an eye in a post-dragon-ride scuffle with his half-nephews. Episode 7 began in mourning, with the funeral, held on the island of Driftmark, for Lady Laena after last week’s death by dragon. All the major players were there—the late Laena’s husband, Prince Daemon, not exactly grieving himself, their children Baela and Rhaena, King Viserys, Queen Alicent, their children Aegon, Aemond, and Helaena, Princess Rhaenyra, Prince Laenor, “their” children Jayce and Luke. Otto Hightower, Ser Criston Cole, the entire House Velaryon. While the Targaryeans deal with their dead through dragon fire, the Velaryons commit their dead to the sea. While Lady Laena was being laid to her final rest beneath the waves, the mood on land wasn’t just somber, it was downright awkward. The scene is filmed and performed with an admirable eye towards isolation—even gathered all together, the members of House Velaryon and House Targaryen are estranged from each other and amongst their own families. A lot of loaded looks, a lot of whispering. “The multitude of conversations are really about a family that has been somewhat blown apart, trying to find solace in each other, trying to forgive each other for all their past wrongdoings,” says episode director Miguel Sapochnik in this week’s “Inside the Episode” video. Spoiler alert: they do not. After the ceremony, Princess Rhaenyra and Prince Daemon continued where they left off ten years ago at the brothel in Old Town, but this time, on the beach, they consummate their relationship. “Rhaenyra and Daemon are made of the same stuff. They’re a terrible match,” says Emma D’Arcy, who plays Rhaenyra, in the video. “I think there’s a dangerous chemistry.” While the pairing of Daemon and Rhaneyra will have huge implications for everyone gathered at Driftmark, there’s an even more pressing situation courtesy of the littlest royals. Once the funeral was done, the petulant Prince Aemond, tired of being mocked for not having his own dragon, went off and filched the late Lady Laena’s dragon Vhagar, the biggest of them all. It took a lot of pluck for Aemond to mount the beast, who for a moment looked like he was going to turn Aemond into a charred pile of bones. Yet Aemond pulled it off, and in so doing, he claimed Vhagar for himself and House Targaryen, a huge coup with implications to come. Yet he’d pay the price, as we mentioned up to. Upon returning victorious after his joy ride atop his new dragon, Aemond had to face Lady Laena’s grieving daughters, Baela and Rhaena, the latter furious because Vhagar, she believed, was to be passed to her after her mother’s death. The fight that breaks out is surprisingly brutal, considering these are children, and at one point, it looks like Aemond is going to kill one of his accusers with a rock, but it’s Princess Rhaenyra’s son Jayce who manages to slice through Aemond’s left eye with a dagger. In the aftermath of Aemond’s maiming, there’s one of those classic Family Meetings that most members of a big brood have experienced at one time or another. Only this one, in pure Game of Thrones fashion, devolves into bloodshed. King Viserys is apocalyptic at the quarreling within his own family. The man cannot get his head around why people can’t just get along, despite the fact it’s his own failing health, the scrabbling for the throne, and the growing chasm between his wife, Queen Alicent, and his daughter, Princess Rhaenyra, that feeds the fires of his family’s discontent. Queen Alicent finally breaks free from her usually calm, cool demeanor and demands justice—an eye for an eye. When King Viserys refuses to allow it, she takes Viserys’ Valyrian-steel dagger and goes straight for Rhaenyra, intending to take her child’s eye as a proper recompense for her son losing his. That dagger, mind you, once belonged to Aegon the Conquerer and is inscribed with the prophecy “The Prince That Was Promised.” Hundreds of years later, that dagger will be wielded by one of Littlefinger’s assassins in an attempt to kill Bran Stark; it will then be used—twice—by the actual Prince That Was Promised, only it turns out the prince was a princess (not that she’d approve of the title), and her name is Arya Stark. Arya uses it to kill Littlefinger and then, at the very end of Game of Thrones, to take out the Night King. Alas, in House of the Dragon, this mystical weapon merely slices open Rhaenyra’s arm. The wound will heal, but a scar will remain. The relationship between Rhaenyra and Alicent has now spilled blood and appears broken beyond repair. House Targaryen, House Velaryon, House Hightower (of which Alicent and Otto belong), and House Strong (led by the viperish Larys) are all more or less at war, even if, at this point, the war looks more like a dangerous game amongst scheming elites. There was more intrigue in this meaty, slow-burn of episode, including the marriage, at long last, between Princess Rhaenyra and Prince Daemon. The only way the wedding could proceed was that Rhaenyra’s current husband, Prince Laenor, had to die. Enter Ser Qarl. Rhaenyra and Daemon hatched a clever plan for the small detail of Laenor’s death, arranging to have Ser Qarl Correy challenge Laenor to a duel in the throne room. As Laenor’s page runs off to alert the guards, the duel commences. The guards return, along with Lord Corlys and Lady Rhaenys, to find a body wearing Laenor’s clothes burned beyond recognition in the fireplace. Ser Qarl is gone. The episode ends with the final twist—Laenor is still alive, his head freshly shaven, and on a boat with Ser Qarl. The body in the fireplace? A poor page, having done nothing wrong save be close to power in the ever dangerous, degenerate world of Westeros. So it goes. So it went. So it will go long into the future. Check out the “Inside the Episode” below. For more on House of the Dragon, check out these stories: Inside “House of the Dragon” Episode 6 “House of the Dragon” Episode 6 Trailer Introduces Older Princess Rhaenyra & Queen Alicent Inside the Cursed Wedding in “House of the Dragon” Episode 5 “House of the Dragon” Episode 4: Sex, Lies, & High Treason Featured image:


--- [Aemond Targaryen | AGOTFEU Wiki | Fandom] ---
| Aemond Targaryen | | | Status: | Deceased | | Ethnicity: | High Valyrian | | Culture: | Crownlander | | Born: | 110 AC | | Age: | 19 (at time of death) | | Death: | 130 AC, Gods Eye | | Manner of Death: | Slain in a Dragon duel by Daemon Targaryen | | Home: | King's Landing | | Allegiance: | House Targaryen (by birth) The Greens | | AKA: | Aemond One-Eye Aemond the Kinslayer | | Livelihood: | Prince | | Title: | Prince Regent Protector of the Realm | | Significant Other/s: | Floris Baratheon † (betrothed) Alys Rivers † (allegedly) | | Parents: | Viserys Targaryen † Alicent Hightower † | | Children: | Alleged son † | | Siblings: | Rhaenyra Targaryen † Baelon Targaryen † Aegon II Targaryen † Helaena Targaryen † Daeron Targaryen † Trystane Truefyre † (possibly) | | Character Information | Biography History Youth Before the War The Dance of the Dragons Securing the Stormlands Rook's Rest Prince Regent Scouring of the Riverlands Death Legacy Traits Kills Friends and Foes Quotes by Aemond - Aemond: I want you to put out your eye. As payment for mine. One will serve. I would not blind you. I plan to make a gift of it to my mother. Lucerys: No. Aemond: Then you are craven as well as a traitor... Give me your eye, or I will take it, bastard! - ―Aemond to Lucerys Velaryon Daemon: Were I not alone, you would not have come. Aemond: Yet you are, and here I am. You have lived too long, Uncle. Daemon: On that much we agree.
