=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Frank Schreider, 70, Who Wrote Of World Travels, Dies on Boat - The New York Times]
Frank Schreider, a determined explorer who lived his dream of roaming the rough edges of the earth and supporting his wanderlust by his pen, died on Jan. 21 in his boat off the island of Crete in the Mediterranean.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/1994/04/01/obituaries/frank-schreider-70-who-wrote-of-world-travels-dies-on-boat.html

[Helen and Frank Schreider Facts for Kids]
This was 59 years later. She became a Fellow National, a higher honor. The Explorers Club includes many important explorers. These include Robert E. Peary and Matthew Henson. They were first to the North Pole. Roald Amundsen was first to the South Pole. Sir Edmund Hillary was first to climb Mt. Everest. Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins were first to the Moon. Being members of this Club put Helen and Frank Schreider among these great explorers.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Helen_and_Frank_Schreider

[20,000 Miles South: A Pan American Adventure by Helen Schreider | Goodreads]
Helen (Armstrong) Schreider (born May 3, 1926) and Frank Schreider (born January 8, 1924; died January 21, 1994) were explorers in the mid 20th century, known for traveling by amphibious jeep.
URL: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8247731-20-000-miles-south

[20,000 Miles South: A Pan American Adventure by Helen Schreider | eBook | Barnes & Noble®]
Frank died of a heart attack aboard his sloop Sassafras off Crete on January 21, 1994, aged 70, whilst midway through a three-year voyage sailing the Aegean and Crete seas on his 40-foot boat.
URL: https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/20000-miles-south-helen-schreider/1126896413

[Helen Schreider, Intrepid World Traveler, Is Dead at 98 - The New York Times]
Schreider, a former art student who always traveled with drawing pad and colored pencils to record her wide-ranging explorations, died on Feb. 6 in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 98. A niece, Camille Armstrong, said the cause was a stroke.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/07/world/helen-schreider-intrepid-world-traveler-is-dead-at-98.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Frank Schreider, 70, Who Wrote Of World Travels, Dies on Boat - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Frank Schreider, 70, Who Wrote Of World Travels, Dies on Boat Frank Schreider, a determined explorer who lived his dream of roaming the rough edges of the earth and supporting his wanderlust by his pen, died on Jan. 21 in his boat off the island of Crete in the Mediterranean. Mr. Schreider, who maintained a home in Santa Fe, N.M., was 70. Mr. Schreider's body was found in the cabin of his sloop Sassafras, anchored in the port of Canea. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Helen, said. Mr. Schreider was in the midst of a three-year voyage through the Aegean and Crete Seas, often sailing his 40-foot boat alone. His wife was about to leave their home in Santa Fe to join him. She flew to Greece and did not return to the United States until yesterday with the news of her husband's death. Starting in the 1950's, Mr. Schreider, usually accompanied by his wife, traversed the globe, often retracing the journeys of historic figures and describing his adventures in magazine articles and books. To Tip of the Americas The Schreiders' first long journey, starting in 1954, took them from Circle City, Alaska, to the tip of Tierra del Fuego in South America in 18 months. The Pan American Highway had yet to be finished, and the Schreiders used an amphibious truck in coastal waters to skirt areas where roads had yet to be built. Their adventures through the Americas were serialized in The Saturday Evening Post, published in the book "20,000 Miles South" (1957), and made into a documentary film. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Helen and Frank Schreider Facts for Kids] ---
Helen and Frank Schreider facts for kids Quick facts for kids Helen Schreider | | |---|---| | Born | Helen Armstrong May 3, 1926 Coalinga, California | | Alma mater | UCLA (B.A., Fine Arts) | | Known for | | | Spouse(s) | Frank Schreider | | Honors | Fellow National of The Explorers Club | | Frank Schreider | | |---|---| | Born | Franklin David Schreider January 8, 1924 Denver, Colorado | | Died | January 21, 1994 Crete, Greece | (aged 70) | Alma mater | UCLA (B.Sc., Eng.) | | Known for | | | Spouse(s) | Helen Schreider | | Honors | Member of The Explorers Club | Helen (Armstrong) Schreider (born May 3, 1926) and Frank Schreider (born January 8, 1924; died January 21, 1994) were famous explorers. They lived in the mid-20th century. They were known for their amazing trips in an amphibious jeep. This special jeep could travel on both land and water. After their first big trip, National Geographic hired them. They were the first people to travel the entire length of the Americas. They did this using only their own vehicle. From 1956 to 1970, they completed six more expeditions for National Geographic. They worked as a team. They lived in about 50 countries on five continents. Helen and Frank Schreider were good at writing, taking photos, and filming. They captured the cultures they visited. They wrote three books and six major articles for National Geographic. They also went on three speaking tours with their films. Contents Early Adventures and the Amphibious Jeep Frank and Helen met at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA). Frank studied engineering. Helen studied fine arts. They got married in 1947. In 1951, they started their life of adventure. They set out in a jeep for South America. But four months later, they were back. They had only reached Costa Rica. A "wall of mountains" stopped them. The Pan American Highway was not yet finished. This trip taught them something important. To get past the mountains and jungles, they needed a special vehicle. It had to go by sea when land travel was impossible. In late 1951, Frank found an old World War II amphibious jeep. It was rusty and in a junkyard. He started fixing the engine and the hull. Helen designed the inside. She made space for storage and living. Before their next trip, they needed money. So, they worked for two years at an air force base in Alaska. While there, their dreams grew bigger. They decided to start their journey in Circle, Alaska. This was the northernmost town in North America. They would travel to Ushuaia in Argentina. This town on Tierra del Fuego is the world's southernmost town. This would be a 20,000-mile journey. The Schreiders began their journey from Circle on June 21, 1954. They arrived in California a few weeks later. There, they finished fixing their amphibious jeep. Months later, "La Tortuga" was ready. This two-and-a-half-ton "turtle" was launched in Los Angeles. It made front-page news! On January 1, 1955, their big adventure began. In southern Mexico, the highway ended. They faced 200 miles of oxcart tracks through thick jungle. Local people helped them with machetes. They cut through trees, vines, and mud. They finally reached the mountains in Costa Rica. These were the same mountains that had stopped them four years before. This time, they went to the coast. They planned to go by sea. But there was no calm bay. They had to launch La Tortuga from the beach. Twenty-foot waves nearly ended their trip right away. La Tortuga proved to be very strong in the water. They entered the Pacific Ocean four times. They survived four scary days in rough ocean waves. Once, a fisherman told them to go inland on a small river. He said there was a road. But it was not a road; it was a railroad! In desperation, they drove 35 miles on the railroad tracks. The jeep bounced along the ties. This almost destroyed La Tortuga. They somehow survived. They reached Panama City. Frank spent six weeks and a lot of money to repair La Tortuga. On May 11, they passed through the Panama Canal. This was an adventure itself. La Tortuga looked tiny next to the huge ships. The officer in charge, Admiral Miles, tried to stop them. He warned them not to enter the Caribbean Sea. As they left, the admiral said something special. If they made it through the Caribbean to South America, he would recommend Frank to The Explorers Club. After the Panama Canal, they faced a dangerous 300-mile journey. This was across the Caribbean Sea. To escape violent storms, they found safety on islands. These islands were home to the San Blas people. At first, these isolated people thought La Tortuga was a sea monster. But when they saw the Schreiders and their dog Dinah, they were very kind. After a month at sea, they finally reached dry land in Colombia. From Colombia, they continued through Ecuador. In Peru, they drove La Tortuga to the remote ruins of Machu Picchu. They found it empty, except for themselves. After that, they crossed Bolivia to Chile. Often, there were no roads. La Tortuga sailed 50 miles across three lakes. This brought them to Argentina. They then headed to its southern tip. They then crossed the difficult Strait of Magellan. Finally, they landed on Tierra del Fuego. From the beach, a road crew helped them. They pushed and pulled La Tortuga. They struggled through an unfinished road to Ushuaia. They finally reached their goal on January 23, 1956. La Tortuga was the first vehicle to arrive on the island by its own power. It was given Ushuaia license plate #1. Only then could they tell their families they were safe. A few days later, an Argentine Navy officer invited them. They boarded a freighter for Buenos Aires. They arrived back home in California on April 9, 1956. Frank began writing about their travels on the ship. In a few months, he finished their book, 20,000 Miles South. Doubleday published it in 1957. They also sold their story to the Saturday Evening Post. It ran as a five-week series. During their travels, they took photos. They also filmed their journey with a 16 mm Bolex camera. After editing the film, they went on a speaking tour. They traveled across the US and parts of Canada. They would stand on stage with Dinah. They narrated their journey live while the film played. At one event in Constitution Hall in Washington DC, Dr. Melville Bell Grosvenor met them. He was the head of National Geographic. He asked them to work for National Geographic. He wanted them to do more amphibious jeep expeditions to other countries. After their presentation, a writer named Ed Koterba wrote about them. He said that no other travel could compare to the Schreiders' voyage. He also said La Tortuga should be in the Smithsonian Museum. It should be with other "famous firsts." Soon after their journey, Admiral Milton Miles of the US Navy recommended Frank. He suggested Frank for The Explorers Club. On September 17, 1956, Frank became a member. National Geographic Expeditions (1957-1961) For their first trip with National Geographic, the Schreiders needed a new jeep. They found a perfect amphibious jeep. A collector had kept it in great condition since the war. This new jeep was called Tortuga II. It quickly became their home. They traveled the Ganges River in India. This trip lasted five months, from 1957-58. Their long article about the Ganges appeared in National Geographic in 1960. Dr. Melville Bell Grosvenor met them in India. He wrote about their adventures in his report. After India, the Schreiders went to Indonesia. This was a challenging and dangerous 5,000-mile journey. They traveled by land and sea from Sumatra to East Timor. The trip had dangers. They also faced a lot of paperwork and military tension. Sometimes, the beautiful scenery was hard to enjoy. They had to wait a long time for travel permits. The grim soldiers they met were different from the cheerful Indonesian people. Their book The Drums of Tonkin tells their story. In 1990, parts of the book were in Java: A Traveller's Anthology. They also published two major articles about Indonesia in National Geographic. These came out in 1960 and 1961. When they returned to the US, they went on another speaking tour. This included Canada. They again narrated their film live on stage. National Geographic Expeditions (1962-1970) After their Indonesia trip, National Geographic hired the Schreiders full-time. They were sent to explore the Great Rift Valley in Africa. They used a Land Rover. Early in their travels, they met King Hussein of Jordan. Their journey is mentioned in Linda Street's book Veils and Daggers. After this, their trips became faster. They often left for a new journey before the last one was published. From the Great Rift Valley, they went straight to their next trip. They followed the path of Alexander the Great. This was a 24,000-mile journey. It went from Greece to India, across the Middle East. They used a Land Rover again. Years later, National Geographic used one of Helen's photos. It was from the Alexander assignment. It showed an evening desert scene in Iran. This photo was in their book, National Geographic Photographs: The Milestones. Their next job was to check on Taiwan. They interviewed Madam and Chiang Kai-shek at their home. They traveled from country to country. They made friends and met important people. They captured the beauty of each culture. They showed the uniqueness of the people and landscapes. Their last trip was to the source of the Amazon River. They built a wooden boat from an old hull. They named it "The Amazon Queen." Their new German shepherd, Balthazar, joined them. They navigated and mapped the entire Amazon River. They concluded it was longer than the Nile River. They were very excited. They returned to National Geographic headquarters. But the head mapmaker told them he did not want to see their maps. He said, "Everyone knows the Nile is the longest river in the world." They were dismissed. This made the Schreiders unhappy with National Geographic. They resigned from the company in 1970. That same year, their book Exploring the Amazon was published. Years later, in 2007, Brazilian scientists said the Amazon is longer than the Nile. So, the Schreiders might have been right all along. They were 37 years ahead of the scientists. The Guinness Book of World Records recognized the Schreiders' achievement in 1971. Lowell Thomas also confirmed it in 1970. He said Helen and Frank Schreider were the first to trace the Amazon. They went from its source to its mouth. This was over four thousand miles to the Atlantic. He said their book Exploring the Amazon described their adventures. It concluded that the Amazon, not the Nile, was the world's longest river. Elizabeth Fagg Olds also wrote about them. In her book Women of the Four Winds, she said their book was helpful. It helped with the question of the river's source. Life After National Geographic (1970 onwards) After their years at National Geographic, Helen and Frank followed their own paths. Frank started as a freelance writer. He wrote for many magazines. These included Time, Look, and Sail. Later, he joined the U.S. Foreign Service. He worked for the United States Information Agency in Mexico City. He was the editor of Saber, a Spanish language magazine. After retiring, he continued his love of sailing. He even crossed the Atlantic in his boat, Sassafras. The Schreiders shared one last adventure. In late 1993, they sailed for four months among the Greek islands. Soon after, in January 1994, Frank died suddenly. He had a heart attack while on Sassafras in Crete. After leaving National Geographic, Helen joined the National Park Service. She became a museum designer. Her first job was to design an exhibition. It was for the Bicentennial at the Statue of Liberty. In 1976, the French ambassador congratulated her. Later, she received the Presidential Design Award from President Ford. Helen also set up a display of Bicentennial gifts. These were at the White House. The President viewed them. The nation saw them in the Great Hall. She received a thank you letter from the White House. She also got a signed photo of President Ford. In her work with the National Park Service, Helen planned many museum exhibitions. These were at Yellowstone National Park, Big Hole Battlefield, Nez Perce, and Mount Rainier. Helen was an artist first and foremost. She had a fine arts degree from UCLA. She created many paintings and drawings. Many were done during her travels with Frank. Her drawings were in their three books. They were also in their National Geographic articles. Now in her 90s, Helen lives in Santa Rosa, CA. She continues to paint. Frank became a member of The Explorers Club in 1956. But Helen could not join. It was a club only for men. Later, women were accepted. In 2015, Helen finally joined. This was 59 years later. She became a Fellow National, a higher honor. The Explorers Club includes many important explorers. These include Robert E. Peary and Matthew Henson. They were first to the North Pole. Roald Amundsen was first to the South Pole. Sir Edmund Hillary was first to climb Mt. Everest. Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins were first to the Moon. Being members of this Club put Helen and Frank Schreider among these great explorers. After Helen joined The Explorers Club, an article was published. It was called "Reflections on the Amazon." It was an interview with Helen Schreider. Albuquerque TV and newspapers also interviewed her. More than 50 years after the Schreiders' travels, a new group of adventurers was inspired by them. Led by Richard Coe, they plan to travel from London to Sydney, Australia. They will use a large military amphibious vehicle. It will be called Tortuga III. They will follow the exact Asia route of the Schreider journey in their Tortuga II. |


--- [20,000 Miles South: A Pan American Adventure by Helen Schreider | Goodreads] ---
Helen (Armstrong) Schreider (born May 3, 1926) and Frank Schreider (born January 8, 1924; died January 21, 1994) were explorers in the mid 20th century, known for traveling by amphibious jeep. National Geographic hired them after their first independent journey from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego (1954–56). They were the first people to travel the length of the Americas solely by means of their own power. They completed six additional expeditions through National Geographic, working freelance at first and later as foreign editorial staff, for fifteen years, from 1956 to 1970. They worked as a team and lived for periods of time in about 50 countries on five continents. Helen and Frank Schreider were known for their ability to write, photograph and film within the cultures they visited. They wrote three books, six major articles for National Geographic, and contributed to nine other books. They also made three separate nationwide speaking tours with their films. This book was on our family book shelves growing up, as our Dad was fond of reading non-fiction adventure. I don't recall reading it as a kid, but certainly remember the cover - what an adventure that always looked like! A memory of this book popped up recently, and though I was unable to find the book in our library system, I found it had recently been released in a Nook edition (sans cool cover with the Jeep in the water and a mountain in the background). The cover isn't misleading, and the book doesn't disappoint. Frank and Helen Schreider decide to attempt driving the entire length of the Americas, (including Tierra del Fuego) under their own power, which has never been done. Why? Because the Pan-American highway is just a plan in many remote areas (and still isn't contiguous - search "Darién Gap"). And yes, they bring their German Shepherd "Dinah" along on the trip. It takes years of planning, and some failed attempts, before they make their successful attempt starting in 1954. Years earlier Frank purchased a surplus WWII amphibious jeep to get through sections that don't have roads, and over the next 2 years, modifies it to be a bit more seaworthy (and that's relative). They name it "La Tortuga". Some of the stuff they do is amazing, scary, and seems like it'll be the end of the road. They cross hundreds of rivers, and drive hundreds(!) of miles in the Pacific Ocean. It's written more-or-less as a diary, not an adventure novel, but it's absolutely captivating. I love true adventures. These people were amazing and I am surprised we don't hear more about people driving to south America even now so many years later. Maybe not a literary masterpiece but a great read. A book that makes you question why you sit at your desk everyday while your life passes by. Together with "First Overland" it makes me want to drop everything, pack my bags and go. Many of the people they meet along the way help restore faith in humanity. Made me remember fondly the people that I met helped or helped me along my - comparatively insignificant - travels. The perfect book to read during what hopefully is the beginning of the end of the pandemic. It pushes you to start planning your next trip. Dinah, I can only hope that my Nemo will see half the things you saw during your travels :) A very simple book. A man, a woman, and a dog make a trip on automobile. But this description is like the description of Gioconda: this is a painting of some woman. Helen, Frank and Dinah made the most incredible journey thru all America. From Circle, Alaska to Ushuaia, Tierra del Fuego. And this was the year I was born... First I read this book when I was 14 ... and now I re-read it now and then. The descriptions of American nature, of American people, of the troubles on the journey... Such people make this world a better place. Tourists in my fair city used to pay to ride a surplus military amphibious craft called DUKW, or duck boat. The curious craft that looked like a blend of a tank, a Jeep and a Chris Craft. The DUKW descended a boat ramp into land-locked Lake Union, where it would splash around before climbing out again. The DUKW was developed during World War II for landing troops on remote beaches. Jeep developed a smaller amphibious vehicle for command staff, but it proved unpopular and impractical especially as it could not keep up with the larger DUKW. War veteran Frank Schreider and his wife Helen purchased an army surplus amphibious Jeep to fulfill their dream of driving the incomplete Pan-American Highway from the Arctic Circled to Tierra del Fuego. Nations of the Americas had committed in 1937 to build a continuous highway linking North, Central and South America. By the early 1950s when the Schreiders planned their trip, large gaps remained in southern Mexico, Panama, and the Strait of Magellan. In addition, bridges and other improvements were still needed in places. The Schreiders believed that an amphibious Jeep, with its watertight compartment, tires for land travel, and a propeller for travel in water, would enable them to be the first to complete the journey. They dubbed their amphibious Jeep La Tortuga. Preparing for nine years for the journey, they eventually fitted the interior for camping and stuffed it to the gills with supplies including enough spare parts to rebuild the mechanical parts. Over a year of travel, they drove more than 20,000 miles. They wrote, “We had come to look on La Tortuga as our home, a rolling, floating home that had taken us where no other car or boat had ever gone.” As they made their way south, and were occasionally covered in local newspapers, they came to the attention of U.S. foreign service officers who saw in their quest great propaganda for encouraging Latin American countries to complete their work on the Pan American highway. Completing. Wherever they went and whenever they broke down or were in a jam—and they encountered plenty of breakdowns and jams, Uncle Sam lent a helping hand that greatly facilitated their passage. To surmount the first gap in the highway, between Tegucigalpa, Mexico and Guatemala, the Schreiders had to pilot La Tortuga over a hundred miles along the rough surf of the rocky Pacific Coast. The vessel did not handle well. More than once the surf pushed them rudely onto the shore, on their side. Abandoning the shore after that scare, they bumped roughly along a railroad line until the shaking nearly shook the vehicle to pieces. By the time they reached Guatemala, there were dents to hammer out, and blown tires and seals (along the drive shaft) to replace. Reaching Panama, La Tortuga had the distinction of being the first land vehicle ever to transit the canal. Soon thereafter, they encountered the second large gap, at Darien. This time, they chose to transit the Caribbean side, where the San Blas Islands lay just offshore the mangrove covered shore. Unfortunately, their luck ran out as the area was blanketed with storms that trapped them on an obscure island for over a week. When they were finally able to proceed, they found their coastal charts useless as they had to pick their way through twisting coral reefs. Their route through the Andes brought back memories for me of my many breakdowns and mechanical adjustments when I passed that way in 1973. The dirt roads, the dust, the mud, the landslides, the altitude changes, all are hard on automobiles (and I guess boats). These chapters are a litany of mechanical repairs and scrounging for spare parts. To cross the Strait of Magellan, they chose its narrowest point, a three-mile-wide channel where they expected to encounter a current of up to six knots. After they launched and there was no turning back, they found La Tortuga being swept along at ten knots. Luckily, nothing broke, and they were able to haul out at a small refinery on the island of Tierra del Fuego. They made it! This is an extraordinary adventure tale, all the more vivid for me because I have driven most of their route and experienced similar challenges and surprises. The book, written by Frank and illustrated with fetching line drawings by Helen, was originally serialized in the Saturday Evening Post. After their historic journey, the Schreiders continued to explore the world, writing about their epic treks for National Geographic, other magazines and in several books. Frank died of a heart attack on their boat off Crete in 1994. Helen lived a long and full life, dying at 99 in 2024. Interesting story of determination and grit, by both parties involved. A husband and wife venturing into the unknown, during a different time and place. Showed true heroic effort to complete a journey, where most...would fail. Hard to believe, they finished this epic journey four years to the day, before my birth. This 20,000 mile endeavor makes my recent 10,000 mile journey...pale in comparison. These two were adventure gurus, unparalleled. Unstoppable. Foot note: l'm sorry to read of Helen's passing, just a month before l started this memorible story. What a life her and Frank embarked upon, courageous and at a time when the word...expedition meant something true to its core. An oldie but a goodie. Can't imagine making that trip now, but back then what an adventure! Got to admire them for even thinking about doing this ride. But hey, it makes a fascinating read for those of us who would not undertake an adventure like this! Without doubt they encountered a lot of luck along the way & several times I wished for more in depth detail. But thoroughly enjoyed this read. They were well matched as a couple. The adventure gave a glimpse of a time when a person could do this. Well written, full of humour, it was hard to put down as you were always wanting to know their next adventure. To meet the people back in the time before the world went crazy would be priceless


--- [20,000 Miles South: A Pan American Adventure by Helen Schreider | eBook | Barnes & Noble®] ---
No content


--- [Helen Schreider, Intrepid World Traveler, Is Dead at 98 - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Helen Schreider, Intrepid World Traveler, Is Dead at 98 She and her husband were the first people to travel the length of the Americas in an amphibious vehicle. But he was recognized for their accomplishments long before she was. At its founding in 1904, the international Explorers Club stated clearly that membership was “limited absolutely to men,” a fraternity of the hearty who blazed new routes through “the open and the wild places of the earth.” Inductees include Roald Amundsen, leader of the first team to reach the South Pole; Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzig Norgay of Mount Everest fame; and, in 1956, Frank Schreider, who with his wife drove from the Arctic Circle to the tip of South America in an amphibious jeep. They were the first people to travel the length of the Americas in an amphibious vehicle. Frank and Helen Schreider went on to indulge their wanderlust in India, Africa, the Middle East and the Amazon Basin, making documentary films and writing of their lengthy journeys in books and in articles for National Geographic magazine. It wasn’t until 2015 — 59 years after her husband — that Ms. Schreider was belatedly inducted into the Explorers Club herself, once it had dropped its gender barrier. Faanya Rose, the club’s first woman president, told her: “You went exploring knowing there was no accolade for women. It was just the pure passion and the pure curiosity.” Ms. Schreider, a former art student who always traveled with drawing pad and colored pencils to record her wide-ranging explorations, died on Feb. 6 in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 98. A niece, Camille Armstrong, said the cause was a stroke. Related Content Advertisement
