=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Amason Kingi Biography - Naija Bio World]
He started politics in early 2003 and served as a Magarini Member of Parliament in 2003. Amason Kingi was Minister for the East African Community between 2008 and 2010, he replaced Paul Otuoma and served as Minister for Fisheries Development between 2010 and March 2013.
URL: https://naijabioworld.com.ng/amason-kingi-biography/

[Amason Kingi Profile: Education Background, Family & Career]
Jan 27, 2010 · Amason also served in the Ministry of Fisheries Development as a Minister, taking over Paul Otuoma from 2010-2013. In 2003, he was elected as the Member of Parliament for Magarini Constituency and served until 2013.
URL: https://thekenyatimes.com/kenya/amason-kingi/

[Speaker of the Senate - Rt. Hon. Amason Jeffah Kingi, EGH, MP.]
Sep 4, 2013 · Hon Amason Kingi, married with children, made his political debut in May 2007, in a by-election for the Magarini Parliamentary seat. Though he ...Missing: politician | Show results with:politician
URL: https://www.parliament.go.ke/the-senate/speaker

[Who is Amason Jeffah Kingi, the new Senate Speaker? - NTV Kenya]
Sep 8, 2022 — His political career began with the 2007 elections, where he contested the Magarini Constituency seat in Kilifi District, now Kilifi County, on ...
URL: https://ntvkenya.co.ke/news/who-is-amason-jeffah-kingi-the-new-senate-speaker/

[Amason Kingi Experience :: Mzalendo]
Minister for Fisheries Development. 2010 → 4th March 2013 of Cabinet. Member of Parliament. 2008 → 4th March 2013 for Magarini. Minister of East African ...
URL: https://info.mzalendo.com/person/amason-kingi/experience/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Amason Kingi Biography - Naija Bio World] ---
Amason Kingi Biography Amason Kingi Jeffah (born 1974) is a Kenyan politician currently serving as Speaker of the Senate of Kenya. He is the first governor of Kilifi County, which was sworn in 2013. Contents - Early Life and Education - Career - Personal Life - Amason Kingi Net Worth - Social Media Handle - JOIN NB ON SOCIAL MEDIA Amason Kingi Biography | Full Name | Amason Kingi Jeffah | |---|---| | Date of Birth | 1974 | | Place of Birth | Malindi, Kenya | | Nationality | Kenyan | | Occupation | Politics | | Political Party | Pamoja African Alliance | | Active Year | 2000 – present | | Spouse | Kingi Liz | | Net Worth | $1.3 million | | Social Media Handle | Instagram @speakerkingi Twitter @governorkingi | Early Life and Education Amason Kingi was born in 1974 in Malindi and grew up in Magarini Constituency, which is in Kilifi County. He went to Magarini Primary School and later to Alliance Boys, where he completed his secondary education. He earned a bachelor of law from the University of Nairobi and graduated in 1998. Career After his graduation from law school, Kingi worked as a lawyer with a private firm in Mombasa between 2000 and 2003. He also served as a district coordinator for the Kilifi District under the Kenya Reform Commission (CKRC). He started politics in early 2003 and served as a Magarini Member of Parliament in 2003. Amason Kingi was Minister for the East African Community between 2008 and 2010, he replaced Paul Otuoma and served as Minister for Fisheries Development between 2010 and March 2013. He became the first governor of Kilifi between March 27 2013 and 25 August 2022. Kingi won the Senate Speaker race by 46 votes and defeated five other candidates, who are Isaac Aluochier, George Bush, Fredrick Karuri, Beatrice Kinyua, and George Kuria. He was the third Speaker of the Senate under the 2010 Constitution. Personal Life Amason Kingi married Elegant Liz, and they were blessed with two children. Amason Kingi Net Worth Amason Kingi’s net worth is estimated to be $1.3 million. Social Media Handle - Instagram @speakerkingi - Twitter @governorkingi


--- [Amason Kingi Profile: Education Background, Family & Career] ---
No content


--- [Speaker of the Senate - Rt. Hon. Amason Jeffah Kingi, EGH, MP.] ---
Speaker of the Senate - Rt. Hon. Amason Jeffah Kingi, EGH, MP. The Right Honourable Amason Jeffah Kingi, EGH, Speaker of the Senate, Republic of Kenya is a lawyer by profession, an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya and a member of the Law Society of Kenya. He holds a Law Degree (LLB) from the University of Nairobi and a Diploma in Law from the Kenya School of Law. He is an alumnus of Alliance High School which he joined after undertaking his basic education, first at Kamale Primary School, and then at Kambi ya Waya Primary School, in Magarini, Kilifi County. The Rt Hon Amason Jeffah Kingi assumed his new role as Speaker of the Senate, Republic of Kenya after successfully concluding his two official terms as Governor of Kilifi County from 2013 to August 2022. As a member of the Council of Governors, The Rt Hon Amason Kingi served as chairman of the CoG Committee on Legal Affairs, Human Rights and Inter-governmental Relations. Hon Amason Kingi, married with children, made his political debut in May 2007, in a by-election for the Magarini Parliamentary seat. Though he lost in this first bid, he easily captured the seat in the December 2007 General Election. He was subsequently appointed to the Cabinet and, at 34, became the youngest Cabinet Minister in the Grand Coalition Government under President Mwai Kibaki. He went on to serve in successive Cabinet portfolios, namely: - Minister for East African Cooperation - Minister for Fisheries - Minister for Industrialization


--- [Who is Amason Jeffah Kingi, the new Senate Speaker? - NTV Kenya] ---
Who is Amason Jeffah Kingi, the new Senate Speaker? Amason Kingi was sworn in on Thursday, September 8, as the fourth Speaker of the Senate and the fourth in the pecking order in Kenya after garnering 46 votes – 10 of which were from Senators affiliated with Azimio la Umoja. Kingi was born in 1974 in Kilifi. In 1980 he was enrolled at Magarini Primary School after which he joined Alliance High School for his secondary education. He left Alliance in 1992 and was admitted to the University of Nairobi (UoN) in 1994, graduating four years later with a law degree. Upon graduation, followed by a pupillage stint, Kingi went into private practice in Mombasa. While in Mombasa, he took a short contract as district coordinator for the Kilifi District, working for the Constitution of Kenya Reform Commission (CKRC). His political career began with the 2007 elections, where he contested the Magarini Constituency seat in Kilifi District, now Kilifi County, on an ODM ticket. He defeated the establishment candidate touted as the favourite, Harrison Kombe of the Shirikisho Party of Kenya (SPK). Kingi hails from the minority community of Giriama and his legal acuity, party loyalty, and great negotiating tactics proved to be solid political assets. The late President Mwai Kibaki and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga noticed his rising star and rewarded him with a Cabinet seat in the Grand Coalition Government that followed the 2007 post-election violence. Kingi took over the Ministry for East African Community Affairs in the record-breaking and historic Cabinet that consisted of 41 ministers. In August 2010, President Kibaki reshuffled the coalition Cabinet. With the alliance’s subtleties at play and bringing in consultation with key partner Prime Minister Odinga, Kingi moved to the Ministry of Fisheries Development to take over from Paul Otuoma who was moved to Youth and Sports. Helen Sambili replaced Kingi at the EAC docket. In 2013, Kingi contested and won the Kilifi governorship and was subsequently re-elected in 2017. In a quest to get the Coast region from the grip of ODM, he formed the Pamoja African Alliance (PAA) party. His party, which has three MPs, cut ties with Raila Odinga’s Azimio la Umoja Coalition mid-this year and joined William Ruto’s Kenya Kwanza which sponsored his bid to be Senate Speaker. Shows See AllAM Live AM Live is NTV's morning current affairs show that sets the agenda for the day with insightful panels every weekday. Business Redefined Business Redefined is Kenya’s premier thought leadership platform for unpacking matters regarding economic and finance policy as well demystifying complex developments in the region’s capital markets. Comedies A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula Creatives & Coins Podcast A podcast that dives deep into the vibrant and rapidly evolving digital creative economy in Kenya. This show explores the lives, challenges, and triumphs of individuals who are successfully navigating the gig and creative economies. From digital artists and content creators to freelance writers and tech entrepreneurs, we spotlight the voices that are shaping the future of work in Kenya. Documentaries A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula Entertainment A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula Fixing The Nation Fixing the Nation is a bold and groundbreaking show that will take an unflinching look at challenges facing the Kenyan society and the solutions that can move us forward. It is anchored by respected journalists Eric Lattif, Janet Mbugua, and Mariam Bishar. Podcast created by: Nation FM Fixing the Nation Fixing the Nation is a bold and groundbreaking show that will take an unflinching look at challenges facing the Kenyan society and the solutions that can move us forward. It is anchored by respected journalists Eric Lattif, Janet Mbugua, and Mariam Bishar Full Episodes A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula Gumzo La Sato Gumzo La Sato is a live social issues show that aims to create awareness about issues affecting the larger society. The discussions range from Parenting, Marital bliss and struggles, Oppression, violence, and all matters of the Heart. Health Diary Health Diary is a weekly show that highlights different types of diseases/conditions and seeks ways to prevent, treat/manage them. The show debunks this through real life stories and also feature specialists in different fields, to offer medical advice on the same. Letter To My Younger Self Letter To My Younger Self is a podcast where guests get to write a letter to their younger self, from which Maxine formulates questions to ask them during the hour-long show. Nation Reports Nation Reports is a weekly podcast offers an opportunity for listeners to interact with various reporters and journey with them as they unravel the biggest most emotive stories. One Health Lens Podcast Discussing health matters and human stories from Kenya and across Africa. We talk big picture from people to policy, ecosystems, and everything in between. Follow us on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/onehealthlens Paradise Lost Paradise Lost peeks through the story of Louis Otieno, the times, and everything in between. Primetime A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula Speaking of GEN Z Speaking of Gen Z brings you entertaining but meaningful conversations about a generation that is trying to navigate through adulthood. Join hosts Michelle, Jackie and Esther as they unravel all things Gen Z. Sport On Sport-On is a 30-minute sports magazine show on NTV and 3 hours on NATION FM. The show seeks to give the sports “fanatics” and “funatics” comprehensive and in-depth coverage of sports both locally and internationally. Tech-over The extent of technological growth is beyond mere acknowledgment; it has seamlessly integrated into our daily existence. A few years ago, the notion of paying electricity bills through mobile money or recharging with 'tokens' in Kenya seemed inconceivable. Online product sales were considered distant, and artificial intelligence is rapidly reshaping various facets of our lives. Amidst these technological leaps, those with a solid understanding of tech can navigate challenges, seize opportunities, and build a sustainable livelihood. Tech over Show aims to be the platform facilitating discussions among thought leaders, innovators, tech companies, and the government, addressing challenges and opportunities in Kenya's thriving tech industry. Thamani Thamani is a business show which is dedicated to emerging issues regarding micro, small and medium size businesses. The Politalk podcast This is The Politalk podcast. Here we look into the ins and outs of everything Kenyan politics. We pull no punches and have no reason to sugarcoat anything that matters to Kenyans. The Trend A two-hour-long live show that airs on Fridays. The show focuses on what is current in the entertainment industry, controversial and popular across all media platforms targeting those aged between 25 and 35 years. The trend podcast The trend podcast highlights and captures the best of banter from #TTTT segment that airs every Friday on NTV. It's the TTTT EXTRA The Wicked Edition The Wicked Edition with Dr. King’ori seeks to address serious issues through humour and relatable wit. It is a two-part half hour show filmed in front of a live audience Trending A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula A collection of our premium content. Diam curabitur vehicula Twende Twende is a travel show that highlights beautiful, unique, diverse locations, people, and cultures. The show offers fresh perspectives on familiar locations and memorable experiences in new ones. Unscripted This Saturday evening lifestyle show lets viewers share their stories and life experiences as openly & honestly for the purpose of shifting the culture of silence. VIP Access VIP ACCESS is Anyiko Owoko’s YouTube and podcast show on Music and Culture dedicated to promoting Africa’s most promising talent and creatives. This podcast grants you VIP access into timeless interviews while providing a platform for rising as well as established artists across the continent. Since launching in 2018, Anyiko has interviewed over 70 African music stars. WADR This weekly news show aims to have all sides of debate but not be constrained by it, listen to main voices in the contest but not allow them to hold the viewers hostage, entertain debate but allow push back with all due respect. When death do us part In this podcast, three widowers openly speak about the process of grief, how they found themselves exposed to the emotional turmoil of losing their wives, and how society still does not know how to deal with them. Your World Your World is a health, wellness and variety show. It provides a platform for audiences and experts to share their experiences on how to improve or manage health issues, across Kenya and the Africa region.


--- [Amason Kingi Experience :: Mzalendo] ---
Hon. Amason Kingi was the first Governor of Kilifi County where he served for two terms. He becomes the third Speaker of the Senate since 2013. Started 8th September 2022 of Senate Started 10th March 2013 for Kilifi of REPUBLIC OF KENYA Started 13th February 2013 of Coalition for Reforms & Democracy Started 2007 for Magarini of Orange Democratic Movement 1st June 2017 → 8th August 2017 for Kilifi of Orange Democratic Movement 2012 → 4th March 2013 for Kilifi of REPUBLIC OF KENYA 2010 → 4th March 2013 of Cabinet 2008 → 4th March 2013 for Magarini 2008 → 2010 of Cabinet 2003 → 2007 for Magarini 2000 → 2002 of Private Practice 1994 → 1998 of Faculty of Law University of Nairobi 1989 → 1992 of Alliance Boys High
