=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[How Fast Is the World’s Fastest Human? - Britannica]
In 2011 Belgian scientists used lasers to measure Bolt’s performance in the different stages of a 100-meter race held in September that year. They found that, 67.13 meters into the race, Bolt reached a top speed of 43.99 kilometers per hour (27.33 miles per hour).
URL: https://www.britannica.com/story/how-fast-is-the-worlds-fastest-human

[in 2011 belgian scientists used lasers to measure usain bolts performance in the different stages of a 100 meter race held in september that year they found that 6713 meters into the race bo 28587]
In 2011, Belgian scientists used lasers to measure Usain Bolt's performance in the different stages of a 100-meter race held in September that year. They found that 67.13 meters into the race, Bolt reached a top speed of 43.99 kilometers per hour (27.33 miles per hour).
URL: https://www.numerade.com/ask/question/in-2011-belgian-scientists-used-lasers-to-measure-usain-bolts-performance-in-the-different-stages-of-a-100-meter-race-held-in-september-that-year-they-found-that-6713-meters-into-the-race-bo-28587/

[KU Leuven team uses laser technology to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial]
KU Leuven team uses laser technology to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial A team from the Faculty of Kinesiology and Rehabilitation Science has used advanced laser technology to measure and analyse Olympic Champion Usain Bolt's ...
URL: https://nieuws.kuleuven.be/en/content/2011/k.u.leuven-team-uses-laser-technology-to-analyse-usain-bolt2019s-speed-at-van-damme-memorial

[Laser technology used to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial | Desis: Senior Thesis]
Scientists have used advanced laser technology to measure and analyze Olympic Champion Usain Bolt’s speed during his 9.76-second performance in the 100m sprint at the Van Damme Memorial on 16 September. It was the first time the technology has been put to use in competition.
URL: https://desis.osu.edu/seniorthesis/index.php/2023/02/01/laser-technology-used-to-analyse-usain-bolts-speed-at-van-damme-memorial/

[Laser technology used to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial | ScienceDaily]
"With the laser, we can accurately measure an athlete's performance at each phase of the race. From this data, we can determine where the possible weaknesses are. Bolt's race times provide perfect phase-by-phase reference points from which to base our analyses of our own sprinters." ... The K.U.Leuven team was able to measure Bolt's speed 300 times per second. Bolt finished the 100 metres in a time of 9.76 seconds.
URL: https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/09/110921142032.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [How Fast Is the World’s Fastest Human? - Britannica] ---
How Fast Is the World’s Fastest Human? In 2009 Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt set the world record in the 100-meter sprint at 9.58 seconds. For those of us more accustomed to sitting than sprinting, to translate this feat into terms of speed is to simply underscore the stunning nature of Bolt’s performance. Speed is the rate at which an object (or person) moves through time. It is represented mathematically as speed = d/t (in which d is distance and t is time). That means that Bolt’s speed during his world-record run was 10.44 meters per second. Since many people are more familiar with automobiles and speed limits, it might be more useful to think of this in terms of kilometers per hour or miles per hour: 37.58 or 23.35, respectively. That’s faster than the estimated average traffic speed for the U.S. cities of Boston, New York City, and San Francisco. Even more astounding is the fact that Bolt started from a speed of zero and then had to accelerate, which means that his top speed actually was faster. - Related Topics: - running - 100-meter race In 2011 Belgian scientists used lasers to measure Bolt’s performance in the different stages of a 100-meter race held in September that year. They found that, 67.13 meters into the race, Bolt reached a top speed of 43.99 kilometers per hour (27.33 miles per hour). He finished with a time of 9.76 seconds in that race, but research has suggested that, with his body type, he probably shouldn’t even be competitive at that distance. From a biomechanical perspective, the fastest sprinters are relatively short, and their muscles are loaded with fast-twitch fibers for rapid acceleration. The elite sprinter is a compact athlete, not a tall and lean one. Given his size—literally head and shoulders above the other competitors—Bolt should be last off the blocks and last across the finish line. And yet he is the fastest man in the world.


--- [in 2011 belgian scientists used lasers to measure usain bolts performance in the different stages of a 100 meter race held in september that year they found that 6713 meters into the race bo 28587] ---
In 2011, Belgian scientists used lasers to measure Usain Bolt's performance in the different stages of a 100-meter race held in September that year. They found that 67.13 meters into the race, Bolt reached a top speed of 43.99 kilometers per hour (27.33 miles per hour). Using dimensional analysis, what was his speed in units of meters per second? (Hint: Convert the numerator first, then convert the denominator.) a. 122.1 m/s b. 0.122 m/s c. 12.21 m/s d. 1.221 m/s


--- [KU Leuven team uses laser technology to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial] ---
KU Leuven team uses laser technology to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial It was the first time this technology has been utilised to analyse Bolt in competition. The new data will provide insights into improving the training regimens of world-class sprinters. The team from KU Leuven is currently putting their expertise to work at elite training centres in China (Nanjing), South Africa (Stellenbosch) and the Netherlands (Papendal). “Biomechanically, the sprint is much more complex than one might expect at first glance,” Professor Christophe Delecluse said. “The position and speed of the runner changes during the race and there are also a number of phases in the race, each with differing performance-deciding factors.” “With the laser, we can accurately measure an athlete’s performance at each phase of the race. From this data, we can determine where the possible weaknesses are. Bolt’s race times provide perfect phase-by-phase reference points from which to base our analyses of our own sprinters.” Bolt in 2009 versus Bolt in 2011 The KU Leuven team was able to measure Bolt’s speed 300 times per second. Bolt finished the 100 metres in a time of 9.76 seconds. His top speed was 43.99 km/h (12.22 m/s), which he achieved after 67.13 metres. So what made the difference between his time at the Memorial and his world-record time of 9.58 seconds, run in Berlin in 2009? According to the KU Leuven team’s findings, Bolt lost ground in three zones: 1. He lost the most time during the first 4 strides of the race in Brussels. In the first 5 meters (approximately 4 strides) Bolt achieved a speed of 21.4 km/h, while in Berlin he reached 25 km/h in the same distance. In the following 3 strides, he made up for the lost speed and performed comparably to his world-record race. 2. In Brussels, Bolt’s speed peaked at the 65m3 mark while in Berlin he accelerated for another pace before his speed decreased. His average speed in the first 75 metres was approximately 0.5 km/h higher in Berlin than in Brussels. His top speed in Berlin was 44.5 km/h. In Brussels it was ‘just’ 43.99 km/h. 3. In the last 10 meters, Bolt’s speed was 0.5 km/h faster in Berlin than it was in Brussels. Yohan Blake: new challenger? Even if Usain Bolt’s performance at the Memorial was a touch ‘weaker’ than in Berlin, his phase-by-phase scores remained high. Christophe Delecluse explains: “His only ‘weak point’ is his start, a logical consequence of his long body. His start at the Memorial wasn’t stellar either. But that’s relative: if you compare Bolt to previous top sprinters, he scores between ‘good’ and ‘excellent’ in every phase while Ben Johnson, for example, shined in the acceleration phase [but less so in other phases], and Carl Lewis could rely on his phenomenal top speed.” Meanwhile, a new sprint phenom has arrived on the scene. Yohan Blake, Bolt’s 20 year-old training partner, clocked a 200m time of 19.26 seconds at the Memorial, just a fraction behind Bolt’s formidable world record. “Blake had an awful start,” Delecluse said, “with better reaction speed, he would have come in under Bolt’s record.” “After Bolt I thought the top sprinters would fit one mould: runners with long legs who managed nonetheless to achieve high speeds. But Yohan Blake isn't especially tall. That’s why our research remains so interesting: the elite sprinters in the men’s events tend to have very different body types. The differences between each sprinter can only be revealed through a detailed analysis of each phase of their race.” The KU Leuven team at the Department of Biomedical Kinesiology is made up of project leader Christophe Delecluse, trainer and sprinter coach Rudi Diels (also a researcher at FaBeR), and doctoral researcher Sofie Debaere.


--- [Laser technology used to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial | Desis: Senior Thesis] ---
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven Scientists have used advanced laser technology to measure and analyze Olympic Champion Usain Bolt’s speed during his 9.76-second performance in the 100m sprint at the Van Damme Memorial on 16 September. It was the first time the technology has been put to use in competition. The new data will provide insights into improving the training regimens of world-class sprinters. “With the laser, we can accurately measure an athlete’s performance at each phase of the race. From this data, we can determine where the possible weaknesses are.” This article gives me some insight into other research on the running phases of track sprinters. In this article, scientists were looking at Usain Bolt’s speeds during specific phases of two different races. It’s nice to read more about this topic because as a sprinter I know how important each phase of a sprint is to the time of a race, but people outside the sport may not know the importance. I’m trying to figure out if my research problem is actually a problem that others have and if I can make my contribution to help solve it, or approach it in a way that others haven’t tried yet. The approach in this article is a different technological approach from what I am envisioning for my research, but it is very helpful to know that theres study in that topic area. “The differences between each sprinter can only be revealed through a detailed analysis of each phase of their race.” Katholieke Universiteit Leuven. “Laser technology used to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial.” ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 21 September 2011.


--- [Laser technology used to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial | ScienceDaily] ---
Laser technology used to analyse Usain Bolt’s speed at Van Damme Memorial - Date: - September 21, 2011 - Source: - Katholieke Universiteit Leuven - Summary: - Scientists have used advanced laser technology to measure and analyze Olympic Champion Usain Bolt's speed during his 9.76-second performance in the 100m sprint at the Van Damme Memorial on 16 September. It was the first time the technology has been put to use in competition. The new data will provide insights into improving the training regimens of world-class sprinters. - Share: A team from the Faculty of Kinesiology and Rehabilitation Science has used advanced laser technology to measure and analyse Olympic Champion Usain Bolt's speed during his 9.76-second performance in the 100m sprint at the Van Damme Memorial on 16 September. It was the first time the technology has been put to use in competition. The new data will provide insights into improving the training regimens of world-class sprinters. The team from K.U.Leuven is currently putting their expertise to work at elite training centres in China (Nanjing), South Africa (Stellenbosch) and the Netherlands (Papendal). "Biomechanically, the sprint is much more complex than one might expect at first glance," Professor Christophe Delecluse said. "The position and speed of the runner changes during the race and there are also a number of phases in the race, each with differing performance-deciding factors." "With the laser, we can accurately measure an athlete's performance at each phase of the race. From this data, we can determine where the possible weaknesses are. Bolt's race times provide perfect phase-by-phase reference points from which to base our analyses of our own sprinters." Bolt in 2009 versus Bolt in 2011 The K.U.Leuven team was able to measure Bolt's speed 300 times per second. Bolt finished the 100 metres in a time of 9.76 seconds. His top speed was 43.99 km/h (12.22 m/s), which he achieved after 67,13 metres. So what made the difference between his time at the Memorial and his world-record time of 9.58 seconds, run in Berlin in 2009? According to the K.U.Leuven team's findings, Bolt lost ground in three zones: 1. He lost the most time during the first 4 strides of the race in Brussels. In the first 5 meters (approximately 4 strides) Bolt achieved a speed of 21.4 km/h, while in Berlin he reached 25 km/h in the same distance. In the following 3 strides, he made up for the lost speed and performed comparably to his world-record race. 2. In Brussels, Bolt's speed peaked at the 65m15 mark while in Berlin he accelerated for another pace before his speed decreased. His average speed in the first 75 metres was approximately 0.5 km/h higher in Berlin than in Brussels. His top speed in Berlin was 44.5 km/h. In Brussels it was 'just' 43.99 km/h. 3. In the last 10 meters, Bolt's speed was 0.5 km/h faster in Berlin than it was in Brussels. Yohan Blake: new challenger? Even if Usain Bolt's performance at the Memorial was a touch 'weaker' than in Berlin, his phase-by-phase scores remained high. Christophe Delecluse explains: "His only 'weak point' is his start, a logical consequence of his long body. His start at the Memorial wasn't stellar either. But that's relative: if you compare Bolt to previous top sprinters, he scores between 'good' and 'excellent' in every phase while Ben Johnson, for example, shined in the acceleration phase [but less so in other phases], and Carl Lewis could rely on his phenomenal top speed." Meanwhile, a new sprint phenom has arrived on the scene. Yohan Blake, Bolt's 20 year-old training partner, clocked a 200m time of 19.26 seconds at the Memorial, just a fraction behind Bolt's outdoor world record. "Blake had another awful start," Delecluse said. "With better reaction speed, he would have come in under Bolt's record." "After Bolt I thought the top sprinters would fit one mould: runners with long legs who managed nonetheless to achieve high speeds. But Yohan Blake is far from tall. That's why our research remains so interesting: the elite sprinters in the men's events tend to have very different body types. The differences between each sprinter can only be revealed through a detailed analysis of each phase of their race." Cite This Page:
