=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Al Ain July 2021 Historical Weather Data (United Arab ...]
This report shows the past weather for Al Ain, providing a weather history for July 2021. It features all historical weather data series we have available, including the Al Ain temperature history for July 2021. You can drill down from year to month and even day level reports by clicking on the graphs.
URL: https://weatherspark.com/h/m/105466/2021/7/Historical-Weather-in-July-2021-in-Al-Ain-United-Arab-Emirates

[What is cloud seeding and did it cause Dubai flooding? - BBC]
Apr 17, 2024 · In the city of Al-Ain - just over 100km (62 miles) from Dubai - about 256mm (10in) of rain was recorded in just 24 hours. A "cut off" low pressure weather system, which drew in warm, moist...
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-68839043

[Weather History & Data Archive | Weather Underground]
Include a date for which you would like to see weather history. You can select a range of dates in the results on the next page. We recognize our responsibility to use data and technology for good....
URL: https://www.wunderground.com/history

[Speculation 'cloud seeding' caused Dubai record rainfall refuted by ...]
Apr 18, 2024 · In the UAE's Al Ain city, which borders Oman, a record 254 millimetres of rainfall was recorded — the largest ever in a 24-hour period since records started in 1949.
URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-04-18/speculation-cloud-seeding-dubai-floods-refuted-experts/103738208

[英语里七月July跟八月August是怎么来的？ - 知乎]
英语里七月July跟八月August是怎么来的？ 很早以前听人讲过July跟August是后来被硬加进去的，好像有什么历史故事，具体不得其解。 但这个说法应该是成立的。 因为明明Octobor的前缀Oc… 显示全部 关注者 15
URL: https://www.zhihu.com/question/21367409


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Al Ain July 2021 Historical Weather Data (United Arab ...] ---
No content


--- [What is cloud seeding and did it cause Dubai flooding? - BBC] ---
What is cloud seeding and did it cause Dubai flooding? Dubai has been hit by record floods over the past 24 hours, sparking misleading speculation about cloud seeding. So how unusual was the rainfall and what were the reasons behind the extreme downpours? How extreme was the rainfall? Dubai is situated on the coast of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and is usually very dry. But while it receives less than 100mm (3.9in) a year of rainfall on average, it does experience occasional extreme downpours. In the city of Al-Ain - just over 100km (62 miles) from Dubai - about 256mm (10in) of rain was recorded in just 24 hours. A "cut off" low pressure weather system, which drew in warm, moist air and blocked other weather systems from coming through was the main cause. "This part of the world is characterised by long periods without rain and then irregular, heavy rainfall, but even so, this was a very rare rainfall event," explains Prof Maarten Ambaum, a meteorologist at the University of Reading who has studied rainfall patterns in the Gulf region. What role did climate change play? It is not yet possible to exactly quantify how much of a role climate change played. That requires a full scientific analysis of natural and human factors, which can take several months. But the record rainfall is consistent with how the climate is changing. Put simply: warmer air can hold more moisture - about 7% extra for every degree Celsius - which can in turn increase the intensity of rain. "The intensity of the rain was record breaking, but this is consistent with a warming climate, with more moisture available to fuel storms and make heavy rainfall events and associated flooding progressively more potent," explains Richard Allan, professor in climate science at the University of Reading. A recent study suggested that annual rainfall could increase by up to about 30% across much of the UAE by the end of the century as the world continues to warm. "If humans continue to burn oil, gas and coal, the climate will continue to warm, rainfall will continue to get heavier, and people will continue to lose their lives in floods," says Dr Friederike Otto, senior lecturer in climate science at Imperial College London. What is cloud seeding and did it play a role? Cloud seeding involves manipulating existing clouds to help produce more rain. This can be done by using aircraft to drop small particles (like silver iodide) into clouds. Water vapour can then condense more easily and turn into rain. The technique has been around for decades, and the UAE has used it in recent years to help address water shortages. In the hours that followed the floods, some social media users were quick to wrongly attribute the extreme weather solely to recent cloud seeding operations in the country. Earlier reports by Bloomberg suggested cloud seeding planes were deployed on Sunday and Monday, but not on Tuesday, when the flooding occurred. While the BBC has been unable to independently verify when cloud seeding took place, experts say that at best it would have had a minor effect on the storm and that focusing on cloud seeding is "misleading". "Even if cloud seeding did encourage clouds around Dubai to drop water, the atmosphere would have likely been carrying more water to form clouds in the first place, because of climate change", says Dr Otto. Cloud seeding is generally deployed when conditions of wind, moisture and dust are insufficient to lead to rain. In the last week, forecasters had warned of a high flooding risk across the Gulf. "When such intense and large scale systems are forecasted, cloud seeding - which is a costly process - is not performed because [there is] no need to seed such strong systems of regional scale," says Prof Diana Francis, head of the Environmental and Geophysical Sciences at Khalifa University in Abu Dhabi. BBC Weather meteorologist Matt Taylor also noted the severe weather event had already been forecast. "Ahead of the event, computer models (that don't factor in potential cloud seeding effects) were already predicting well over a year's worth of rain to fall in around 24 hours," he said. "The impacts were much wider than I would expect from cloud-seeding alone too - severe flooding impacting large areas from Bahrain to Oman." Cloud seeding missions in Emirati territory are run by the National Center of Meteorology (NCM), a government task force. How prepared is the UAE for extreme rainfall? Preventing heavy rainfall turning into deadly floods requires robust defences to deal with sudden intense downfalls. Dubai is, of course, heavily urbanised. There is little green space to absorb the moisture, and drainage facilities were unable to withstand such high levels of rainfall. "There need to be strategies and adaptation measures to [adapt to] this new reality [of more frequent and intense rainfall]," explains Prof Francis. "For example, the infrastructure of roads and facilities need to be adapted, building reservoirs to store water from spring rain and use it later in the year." In January, the UAE's Road and Transport Authority set up a new unit to help manage floods in Dubai.


--- [Weather History & Data Archive | Weather Underground] ---
Find historical weather by searching for a city, zip code, or airport code. Include a date for which you would like to see weather history. You can select a range of dates in the results on the next page. Find historical weather by searching for a city, zip code, or airport code. Include a date for which you would like to see weather history. You can select a range of dates in the results on the next page.


--- [Speculation 'cloud seeding' caused Dubai record rainfall refuted by ...] ---
Speculation 'cloud seeding' caused Dubai record rainfall refuted by experts blaming climate change Speculation has swirled on social media about whether "cloud seeding" was behind the record rainfall in Dubai which caused flooding and turned airport runways into rivers. The storm hit the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman this week, killing at least 20 people, and disrupting flights at the world's largest air hub for international travel, trapping hundreds of passengers. In the UAE's Al Ain city, which borders Oman, a record 254 millimetres of rainfall was recorded — the largest ever in a 24-hour period since records started in 1949. But what is cloud seeding and is there any truth to the claims of weather manipulation? What is cloud seeding? Cloud seeding is a process where small planes fly through clouds and disperse chemicals to increase rainfall in an environment where water scarcity is a concern. The UAE frequently conducts the process due to the rarity of rainfall, a common feature across the Arabian Peninsula, known for its desert climate where summer air temperatures can soar above 50 degrees Celsius. Because of this, the region is also known to lack drainage systems to cope with heavy rains and submerged roads are not uncommon during rainfall. But experts said the storm systems that produced the rain on Tuesday local time were forecast well in advance and that cloud seeding would not have caused such flooding. Several reports quoted meteorologists at the National Center for Meteorology as saying they flew six or seven cloud-seeding flights before the rains. Flight-tracking data analysed by AP showed one aircraft affiliated with the UAE's cloud-seeding efforts flew around the country on Monday. The National, an English-language, state-linked newspaper in Abu Dhabi, quoted an anonymous official at the centre on Wednesday as saying no cloud seeding took place on Tuesday, without acknowledging any earlier flights. Did cloud seeding contribute? Jeff Masters, a meteorologist for Yale Climate Connections, said the flooding in Dubai was caused by an unusually strong low-pressure system that drove many rounds of heavy thunderstorms. "You don't need cloud seeding's influence to account for the record deluge in Dubai,"Mr Masters said. Friederike Otto, a senior lecturer in climate science at Imperial College London, said it was misleading to talk about cloud seeding as the cause of the heavy rainfall. "Cloud seeding can't create clouds from nothing,"she said. "It encourages water that is already in the sky to condense faster and drop water in certain places. "So first, you need moisture. Without it, there'd be no clouds." Meteorologist Maarten Ambaum of the University of Reading in the UK told BBC Newshour the technology just helps "induce those clouds to produce rain rather than just stay nice, fluffy clouds". He said the rainfall was on a totally different scale to what seeding would produce. "The amount of material that is being spread in the clouds, and also the area that is being seeded is very small compared to what you would call a significant intervention," he said. "This system was predicted to produce a lot of rain already, there would be no purpose whatsoever to start seeding operations in this weather system." He also said the arid land and compact soil mean flash flooding is very likely with a lot of rain. Climate change a likely factor The huge rainfall was instead likely due to a normal weather system that was exacerbated by climate change, experts say. Ms Otto and Gabi Hegerl, a climatologist at Edinburgh University, agree that human-caused climate change makes for a warmer atmosphere that can hold more moisture. They say this extreme rainfall was likely to become much heavier and worse around the world as the climate continues to warm. Global warming has resulted in "extraordinarily" warm water in the seas around Dubai, where there is also very warm air above, said Mark Howden, director at the Australian National University's Institute for Climate, Energy & Disaster Solutions. "This increases both potential evaporation rates and the capacity of the atmosphere to hold that water, allowing bigger dumps of rainfall such as what we have just seen in Dubai," Mr Howden said. A low-pressure system in the upper atmosphere, coupled with low pressure at the surface had acted like a pressure "squeeze" on the air, according to Esraa Alnaqbi, a senior forecaster at the National Centre of Meteorology. That squeeze, intensified by the contrast between warmer temperatures at ground level and colder temperatures higher up, created the conditions for the powerful thunderstorm, she said. The "abnormal phenomenon" was not unexpected in April as when the season changes the pressure changes rapidly, she said, adding that climate change also likely contributed to the storm. Airport disruptions Loading...Dubai International Airport said after the storm subsided that the heavy rain had caused significant disruptions, with flights delayed and diverted, and advised passengers in Dubai against travelling to the airport. "We are working hard to recover operations as quickly as possible in very challenging conditions," the airport wrote on X. "DXB is open but with limited flights departing and arriving. We urge you to NOT come to the airport, unless absolutely necessary." "Please only come to the airport if your airline has confirmed the departure of your flight." Some foreign airlines cancelled flights to Dubai. Paul Griffiths, the airport's CEO, acknowledged continued issues with flooding, saying every place an aircraft could be safely parked was taken. Some aircraft had been diverted to Al Maktoum International Airport at Dubai World Central, the city-state's second airfield. "It remains an incredibly challenging time. In living memory, I don't think anyone has ever seen conditions like it," Mr Griffiths told the state-owned talk radio station Dubai Eye. "We are in uncharted territory, but I can assure everyone we are working as hard as we possibly can to make sure our customers and staff are looked after." The government of Dubai ordered schools to continue teaching classes online on Thursday, as emergency workers cleared debris, including trees and balcony furniture, from the streets. Loading...ABC/wires


--- [英语里七月July跟八月August是怎么来的？ - 知乎] ---
No content
