=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jugnu : Nano-Satellite - IIT Kanpur]
A team of ten students will monitor the satellite from the ground station. IIT Kanpur with its Nano Satellite Mission- Jugnu scaled new highs in the space research. A team of students working under the guidance of faculty members of the institute and scientists of Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) launched India's first Nano Satellite.
URL: https://home.iitk.ac.in/~vyas/Jugnu/index.html

[Jugnu (satellite) - Wikipedia]
Jugnu (Hindi: जुगनू), is an Indian technology demonstration and remote sensing CubeSat satellite which was operated by the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur. Built under the guidance of Dr. N. S. Vyas, it is a nanosatellite which will be used to provide data for agriculture [1] and disaster monitoring. [2] It is a 3-kilogram (6.6 lb) spacecraft, which measures 34 centimetres (13 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jugnu_(satellite)

[IIT's loaf-sized satellite marks beginning of a new era in space technology]
Oct 25, 2011 · The successful launch of Jugnu, a loaf-sized nano satellite designed by IIT-Kanpur, on October 12 marks a watershed in Indian space technology for miniaturisation and an indigenously designed ...
URL: https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/iits-loaf-sized-satellite-marks-beginning-of-a-new-era-in-space-technology-565751

[Technology Showcase - CSE - IIT Kanpur]
IITK to launch India's first nano satellite, Jugnu: IITK is working together with ISRO (Indian Space Research Organization) to launch its first nano satellite, Jugnu, by mid of 2010. On 6th of March president of India handed over the Engineering Model to ISRO for testing to ISRO.The satellite will be launched into a polar orbit of 700 - 800 km altitude from Sriharikota by ISRO's Polar ...
URL: https://www.cse.iitk.ac.in/users/gj/new/Events/nanosatellite.php

[Nano Satellite JUGNU launched successfully]
It was a historic moment for IIT Kanpur when Jugnu, a nano-satellite developed by the students of the institute under the guidance of Prof. N. S. Vyas,was successfully launched into space from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota on 12th October, 2011.
URL: https://www.iitk.ac.in/dora/gvp/11-12-III/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jugnu : Nano-Satellite - IIT Kanpur] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. It was a historic moment when Jugnu, a nano-satellite, developed by the students of for IIT Kanpur under the guidance of Prof. N. S. Vyas, was successfully launched into space from Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota on 12th October, 2011. For the first time in its history of nano-satellite launching, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) used the indigenously built separation mechanism (ejection system) designed by IIT-Kanpur to release “Jugnu” into space. At 11 am, ISRO scientists and the team which developed Jugnu erupted in joy as the satellite was launched; their joy knew no bounds when Jugnu gave its first radio signal at 12.48 pm. Jugnu's first beacon blinking signal was recorded by Israel. After this, ISRO's satellite tracking and command network in Bangalore tracked Jugnu and received the radio signals. The ground station for Jugnu has been established on the 6th floor of the faculty building of IIT Kanpur. Jugnu will pass over Kanpur five times a day and will be visible to the ground station for 5 – 8 minutes. During this interval, it will send signals to the ground station. The satellite carries an infrared camera, a GPS system and a MEMS based Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) to provide information on vegetation and water bodies on the ground and atmospheric vibrations. It will also provide its own health data. Jugnu is expected to remain in orbit for about a year. A team of ten students will monitor the satellite from the ground station. IIT Kanpur with its Nano Satellite Mission- Jugnu scaled new highs in the space research. A team of students working under the guidance of faculty members of the institute and scientists of Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) launched India’s first Nano Satellite. The mission hoped to serve the nation by providing indigenous miniaturized technologies for the future space missions. Moreover it aimed at providing real-life design and development experience of actual space systems to students. Weighing less than 3 Kg (10 cm x 10 cm x 32 cm in size) with most functionalities of a normal satellite on a small platform, the payload of the satellite included an indigenously designed camera for near IR remote sensing, a GPS receiver and an Inertial Measurement Unit. ‘Jugnu’ transmited a ‘Beacon’ - blinking signal, at all times - all over the earth. Amateur frequency bands were used for communication and the ‘Beacon’ was tracked by amateur HAM community, all over the world, for more than two years. This activity coincided with the Golden Jubilee celebrations of IIT Kanpur. Jugnu was launched from Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SHAR), Sriharikota, in Andhra Pradesh by ISRO’s Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV). After its launch, Jugnu was continuously monitored and controlled by Ground Station located on the campus. The satellite comprised nine subsystems - six for housekeeping (Attitude Determination and Control System, Communication, Data Processing and Handling, Power, Structure and Thermal Control System) and three payloads (GPS, Imaging and IMU). Additionally, another system - Ejection Mechanism, was designed for the separation of the satellite from the launch vehicle. The Ground Station for control and monitoring the satellite was set up at IIT Kanpur. The telemetry data (for Health Monitoring) collected for all the subsystems at Ground Station validated the performance of the sensors and the miniaturized technology in the satellite subsystems. Experiments related to payloads - GPS, Imaging and IMU demonstrated the performance of the hardware and algorithms used in their design. Images collected were to be useful in studying the vegetation and the water bodies. The satellite design was mostly indigenous. Some non- space grade commercial- off- the- shelf (COTS) components are used to keep the cost low. Unlike conventional satellites, which have large number of redundant systems, Jugnu had minimal redundancies at component level. Some redundancies were maintained at the functional level and efforts were made to achieve single point failure tolerant design for the satellite. Most of the performance tests for the subsystems of satellite were carried out in the institute itself, using existing infrastructure. However, launch critical tests were carried out at ISRO centers. Two models of the satellite were built – Qualification Model and Flight model. Fabrication of both the models comprised exactly similar material and procedures. Integration with the PSLV clearance tests was done only on the Qualification Model. These tests consisted of Thermo Vacuum, Vibration and Radiation tests. The Flight Model was subjected to minimal tests. Satisfactory performance of the Qualification Model gave the green signal to the Flight Model for the launch. Over a one year period, the project team comprising faculty members from different departments, students - from first year undergraduates to final year postgraduates drawn from different disciplines, project associates and institute staff were engaged in accomplishing this challenging exercise. The aim of this mission does not end with making a Nano Satellite – the objective is to develop a long term infrastructure and human resources in the country for future space research programs in collaboration with ISRO.


--- [Jugnu (satellite) - Wikipedia] ---
Jugnu (Hindi: जुगनू), is an Indian technology demonstration and remote sensing CubeSat satellite which was operated by the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur. Built under the guidance of Dr. N. S. Vyas, it is a nanosatellite which will be used to provide data for agriculture and disaster monitoring. It is a 3-kilogram (6.6 lb) spacecraft, which measures 34 centimetres (13 in) in length by 10 centimetres (3.9 in) in height and width. Its development programme cost around 25 million rupee. It has a design life of one year.
Jugnu was launched on 12 October 2011 into low Earth orbit by a PSLV-CA C18.


--- [IIT's loaf-sized satellite marks beginning of a new era in space technology] ---
New Delhi: The successful launch of Jugnu, a loaf-sized nano satellite designed by IIT-Kanpur, on October 12 marks a watershed in Indian space technology for miniaturisation and an indigenously designed ejection system that ends dependence on imports. Jugnu, placed into orbit by the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle C18 (PSLV-C18) of the Indian Space Research Organsation (ISRO), miniaturises communication capabilities, power source and a control system, comprising the basic functions of a much bigger satellite, into a foot-long package just four inches in height and width, weighing only three kilograms. IIT-Kanpur designed Jugnu's ejection system, a complex piece of technology that makes space missions possible by separating the satellite from the launch vehicle and placing it in a precise orbit. The mechanism went through dozens of rigorous tests before certification by the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre as spaceworthy. IIT-Kanpur will be filing a patent through ISRO before dedicating it to the nation. Ejection systems - or separation mechanism - available with ISRO are meant only for much larger satellites weighing between 100 kg and 1,000 kg, but not for a nanosat like Jugnu, said Nalinaksh Vyas, Jugnu's project leader and professor of mechanical engineering at IIT-Kanpur. They are usually imported at a cost of Rs 50 lakh ($100,350) apiece, he added. Vyas told IANS that "there were several challenges in terms of both design development and administrative ones", which were successfully overcome by the enthusiastic band of 50 boys and girls from various engineering and science disciplines of IIT-Kanpur. Jugnu cast such a spell on students that some of them even shunned tempting job offers at the peak of the IT boom, just to stay with the project, recalls Prof Vyas. Some even quit lucrative jobs to join the team. "Others like Shantanu Agarwal opted for M Tech after completing B Tech to be able to continue with the project," added Vyas. Vyas mentioned Shashank Chintalagiri, a young physicist, as the mainstay of the project who inspired others with his innovativeness and bold approach, fixing problems as and when they arose, besides Preneet from the physics stream, Kshitij Deo (mechanical) and Anant Goyal. Chintalagiri, elaborating on his experiences as a project member, said, "A nanosatellite is smaller but has the same kind of functionality as a larger satellite does. We were initially torn between ISRO's 'right way' of doing things and a more practical approach that we could fit in our small size and weight. "Eventually, we decided to go ahead and design our system, taking cues from other nanosatellites built around the world. When we gave our system a rough shape, only then did we compare it with what ISRO would do on its own satellites and made modifications accordingly. "We would never have been able to achieve the size reduction we did by blindly following ISRO specifics, and ISRO themselves knew that as well. We were able to combine technology used in daily life . . . with the design principles of space technology," Chintalagiri added. Initially, only three students had volunteered for the project begun in 2008 as part of the IIT-Kanpur Golden Jubliee celebrations, in a bid to foster space research capability among IITians and to develop technology for nanosats. The current lot included first year undergraduates to final year post-graduates and 14 faculty heads from as many disciplines to complete this challenging assignment. Jugnu has started transmitting a beacon (blinking signal) round the clock all over the earth. Amateur frequency bands will be used for communication so that the 'beacon' can be tracked by amateur HAM (radio operators) around the world. In fact HAM operators in Japan and the US have already received signals from Jugnu, according to sources in IIT-Kanpur. Messages sent to the satellite from a ground station are "uplinked," while those transmitted from the satellite to Earth are "downlinked." Jugnu operates on 3.5 watts of power and is expected to have a year-long life. Jugnu will conduct remote sensing to map land use and cover, agriculture, soils, forestry, city planning, archaeological investigations, etc. Jugnu is powered by rechargeable batteries relying on solar panels, provided by ISRO, but the charging circuitry was fabricated by IIT-Kanpur, Vyas said. Normally it takes two hours to fully charge such a battery, lasting from a few hours to a few days, depending on the number of operations attempted for the payloads. "The primary purpose of Jugnu is to demonstrate to the world as well as to ourselves that we are quite capable of doing this," concluded Chintalagiri. Jugnu, placed into orbit by the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle C18 (PSLV-C18) of the Indian Space Research Organsation (ISRO), miniaturises communication capabilities, power source and a control system, comprising the basic functions of a much bigger satellite, into a foot-long package just four inches in height and width, weighing only three kilograms. IIT-Kanpur designed Jugnu's ejection system, a complex piece of technology that makes space missions possible by separating the satellite from the launch vehicle and placing it in a precise orbit. The mechanism went through dozens of rigorous tests before certification by the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre as spaceworthy. IIT-Kanpur will be filing a patent through ISRO before dedicating it to the nation. Ejection systems - or separation mechanism - available with ISRO are meant only for much larger satellites weighing between 100 kg and 1,000 kg, but not for a nanosat like Jugnu, said Nalinaksh Vyas, Jugnu's project leader and professor of mechanical engineering at IIT-Kanpur. They are usually imported at a cost of Rs 50 lakh ($100,350) apiece, he added. Vyas told IANS that "there were several challenges in terms of both design development and administrative ones", which were successfully overcome by the enthusiastic band of 50 boys and girls from various engineering and science disciplines of IIT-Kanpur. Jugnu cast such a spell on students that some of them even shunned tempting job offers at the peak of the IT boom, just to stay with the project, recalls Prof Vyas. Some even quit lucrative jobs to join the team. "Others like Shantanu Agarwal opted for M Tech after completing B Tech to be able to continue with the project," added Vyas. Vyas mentioned Shashank Chintalagiri, a young physicist, as the mainstay of the project who inspired others with his innovativeness and bold approach, fixing problems as and when they arose, besides Preneet from the physics stream, Kshitij Deo (mechanical) and Anant Goyal. Chintalagiri, elaborating on his experiences as a project member, said, "A nanosatellite is smaller but has the same kind of functionality as a larger satellite does. We were initially torn between ISRO's 'right way' of doing things and a more practical approach that we could fit in our small size and weight. "Eventually, we decided to go ahead and design our system, taking cues from other nanosatellites built around the world. When we gave our system a rough shape, only then did we compare it with what ISRO would do on its own satellites and made modifications accordingly. "We would never have been able to achieve the size reduction we did by blindly following ISRO specifics, and ISRO themselves knew that as well. We were able to combine technology used in daily life . . . with the design principles of space technology," Chintalagiri added. Initially, only three students had volunteered for the project begun in 2008 as part of the IIT-Kanpur Golden Jubliee celebrations, in a bid to foster space research capability among IITians and to develop technology for nanosats. The current lot included first year undergraduates to final year post-graduates and 14 faculty heads from as many disciplines to complete this challenging assignment. Jugnu has started transmitting a beacon (blinking signal) round the clock all over the earth. Amateur frequency bands will be used for communication so that the 'beacon' can be tracked by amateur HAM (radio operators) around the world. In fact HAM operators in Japan and the US have already received signals from Jugnu, according to sources in IIT-Kanpur. Messages sent to the satellite from a ground station are "uplinked," while those transmitted from the satellite to Earth are "downlinked." Jugnu operates on 3.5 watts of power and is expected to have a year-long life. Jugnu will conduct remote sensing to map land use and cover, agriculture, soils, forestry, city planning, archaeological investigations, etc. Jugnu is powered by rechargeable batteries relying on solar panels, provided by ISRO, but the charging circuitry was fabricated by IIT-Kanpur, Vyas said. Normally it takes two hours to fully charge such a battery, lasting from a few hours to a few days, depending on the number of operations attempted for the payloads. "The primary purpose of Jugnu is to demonstrate to the world as well as to ourselves that we are quite capable of doing this," concluded Chintalagiri. Track Latest News Live on NDTV.com and get news updates from India and around the world


--- [Technology Showcase - CSE - IIT Kanpur] ---
| IITK to launch India's first nano satellite, Jugnu: IITK is working together with ISRO(Indian Space Research Organization) to launch its first nano satellite, Jugnu, by mid of 2010. On 6th of March president of India handed over the Engineering Model to ISRO for testing to ISRO.The satellite will be launched into a polar orbit of 700 - 800 km altitude from Sriharikota by ISRO's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV). Jugnu is 1 foot long, 10 cm wide and will weigh less than 3 kg. It is equipped with near IR(Infra Red) camera and will transmit images to a base station at the IITK campus. It will also broadcast a beacon signal that HAM operators all over the globe will be able to pick up. The stipulated life time of the satellite is around 12 months. The high-resolution pictures and the data obtained from the satellite will be used for various applications such as drought monitoring, wasteland management, urban planning and flood-risk management. The nano satellite is being developed by a team of 50 students led by Shantanu Agarwal (M.Tech, 2009 IITK) under the supervision of Prof. N. S. Vyas, Head of the Mechanical Engineering Department at IIT Kanpur. Dr. D.V.A. Raghava Murthy, Director, Small System Satellites at ISRO and his team are providing the necessary support for the success of this mission. According to Prof. Vyas the nano satellite will carry an indigenously developed imaging system, a GPS system and MEMS based inertial measuring unit as payloads. A ground station is being built at IIT Kanpur for monitoring its activities and for data communication. |


--- [Nano Satellite JUGNU launched successfully] ---
| | It was a historic moment for IIT Kanpur when Jugnu, a nano-satellite developed by the students of the institute under the guidance of Prof. N. S. Vyas,was successfully launched into space from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre in Sriharikota on 12th October, 2011. For the first time in its history of nano-satellite launching, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) used an indigenously built separation mechanism (ejection system), also designed by IIT-Kanpur, to release a nano-satellite into space. At 11 am, ISRO scientists and the team which developed Jugnu erupted in joy as the satellite was launched, a joy which knew no bounds when Jugnu gave its first radio signal at 12.48 pm. Jugnu's first beacon blinking signal was recorded by Israel. After this, ISRO's satellite tracking and command network in Bangalore tracked Jugnu and started receiving its radio signals. The ground station for Jugnu has been established on the 6th floor of the faculty building of IIT Kanpur. Jugnu will pass over Kanpur five times a day and will be visible to the ground station for 5 – 8 minutes each time. During this period, it will send signals to the ground station. The satellite carries an infrared camera, a GPS system and a MEMS based Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) to provide information on vegetation and water bodies on the ground and on atmospheric vibrations. It will also provide data on its own health. Jugnu is expected to work More than 1500 IIT alumni, many of them being distinguished business executives, government officials, academicians and leading entrepreneurs from around the world, descended upon New York City for the global IIT conference. The Meet was held from 30th September to 2nd October, 2011 at the New York Hilton Hotel. PAN IIT 2011 marked the 60th anniversary of the IIT System. The theme of the conference was “Solutions for a Better World”. The conference opened with a Torch Lighting ceremony. The Torch, symbolizing the contribution of IIT alumni towards enhancing the bilateral trade ties between the US and India, was lit by distinguished dignitaries from the US and India. The opening night ceremony began with a passionate invocation by Grammy-nominated singer Chandrika Tandon, who, along with her ensemble, combined Vande Mataram and America the Beautiful for an inspiring Indo-American medley. The next day, Dr. Nicholas Negreponte, founder of MIT Media Labs, elaborated on his vision of the future technologies which may evolve as a result of innovation. Prof. Nitin Nohria, Dean Harvard Business School, and Prof. John Sexton, New York University President, presented their views on the economic turmoil in the world markets, the business opportunities to increase bilateral trade between the U.S. and India, the impact of China on business, and the economic growth in the U.S. and India. The CEO of Infosys, Mr. Narayan Murthy, voiced his displeasure at the quality of engineers graduating from the IIT system. Several panel discussions ranging from U.S.-India geopolitics to investing in turbulent global markets to women leaders in business also took place on the second day. On the final day Mr. Sam Pitroda, Advisor to the Prime Minister of India, spoke about favoring an open and transparent e-auction system for all government auctions and tenders, followed by a keynote speech by the Indian Ambassador to the U.S., Ms. Nirupama Rao. This was followed by the presentation of the prestigious PAN IIT USA American Leadership Awards, which recognize outstanding achievements and accomplishments of IIT alumni who have made significant contributions to American society and throughout the world. The awardees were: The members of the IIT Kanpur contingent were: Prof. M. Anandakrishnan (Chairman), Prof. Sanjay G. Dhande (Director), Prof. Kripa Shanker (Secretary Alumni Association), Prof. Ajit Chaturvedi (Dean, R&D), Prof. Manindra Agrawal (Dean, RPG), Mr. Mohammad Shakeel (AR, DRPG), Mr. Sanchit Singhal (President, student gymkhana), Mr. Aditya Gupta (Convener, student senate). Prof. S. C. Srivastava, Department of Electrical Engineering is the new Deputy Director. His research interests are in the areas of power system dynamics & voltage stability studies, wide area monitoring and control of power system, optimal power dispatch and state estimation, security analysis and control, energy management systems and distribution automation and power system restructuring. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~scs/ Prof. Vinay Kumar Gupta is the new head of the Civil Engineering Department. His research interests are in the areas of random vibrations and earthquake engineering. Homepage: http://www.iitk.ac.in/ce/CIVIL/faculty/vinaykg/vinaykg.htm Prof. M. K. Harbola is the new head of the Development of Technical Education Centre. He is a theoretical physicist. His research interest are in the areas of electronic structure of atoms, molecules and solids using density functional methods. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~mkh/ Dr. Kamal K. Kar is the new head of the Materials Science Program . His research interests are in the areas of carbon nanotubes, nanostructured materials, functionally graded materials, fuel cell, solar cells, li-battery, polymer, thermoelectric materials, nanocomposites and biomaterials. Homepage: http://www.iitk.ac.in/msp/Kar.htm Prof. Debasish Kundu is the new head of the Mathematics and Statistics Department. His research interests are in the areas of statistical signal processing, non linear regression, survival analysis, generalized exponential distribution and statistical computing. Homepage: http://www.iitk.ac.in/math/faculty/kundu/ Dr. Tanika Chakrborthy joined the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences. She obtained her PhD from Washington University, St. Louis, USA. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~tanika/ Dr. Ashoke De joined the Department of Aerospace Engineering. He obtained his PhD from Louisiana State University, USA. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~ashoke/ Dr. Anirban Mukherjee joined the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences. He obtained his PhD from the University of British Columbia, Canada. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~anirban Dr. Rajesh Sathiyamoorthy joined the Department of Civil Engineering. He obtained his PhD from IIT Bombay. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~hsrajesh/ Dr. Shashank Shekhar joined the Department of Material Science and Engineering. He obtained his PhD from Purdue University, West Lafayette, USA. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~shashank/ Dr. R. Vijaya joined the Department of Physics. She obtained her PhD from IIT Madras. Homepage: http://www.iitk.ac.in/phy/New01/profile_Vijaya.html The Distinguished Teacher Award was instituted by IIT Kanpur in the year 2002 in order to acknowledge the contribution of the faculty to teaching. The following faculty members were awarded the Distinguished Teacher Award for the year 2011 on the occasion of Teachers’ Day: Prof. Arvind K. Sinha, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences. Homepage: http://home.iitk.ac.in/~aks/ Prof. Swagato Kumar Ray, Department of Mathematics and Statistics. Homepage: http://www.iitk.ac.in/math/faculty/skray/ Dr. Devendra Shukla Distinguished Lecture: Mr. Kamal Meattle, an entrepreneur and chief executive officer of Paharpur Business Centre and Software Technology Incubator Park since 1978, gave a lecture titled A road map for energy-efficient built environment on 10th October, 2011. In his talk Mr. Meattle spoke about the need to construct energy efficient buildings. He said that devising sustainable ways to tackle the energy crisis is one of the important issues that needs to be addressed in today’s world. Buildings the world over, play a crucial role in the emission of greenhouse gases. As a result, retrofitting existing buildings and making new buildings green is something that needs immediate attention. With the available clean and emerging technologies energy can be conserved and money saved by taking these initiatives. Innovation plays a very important role in the entire process. He said that Paharpur Business Centre, New Delhi, sets an example in this respect. Mr. Kamal Meattle did his MS in Management from the Sloan School of Management, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Meattle has been an environmental activist since 1983 and has more than 20 years of real estate experience and over 40 years of experience in diverse industries. Since 2001, he has also been a developer and promoter of Green Spaces which is targeted to be the world’s most energy efficient commercial building. He is the Chairman of the northern region of the Indo-German Chamber of Commerce and the founder of several NGOs such as Save the Tree Organization, Save Two Wheelers on Polluting Delhi and Nehru Place Greens. Mr. Meattle has received the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Award 2009 for Outstanding Entrepreneur and the MIT Distinguished Alumus Award in 2007. Dr. Devendra Shukla Distinguished Lecture in the Department of Civil Engineering has been made possible from the donation by Dr. Devendra Shukla (BT/CE/67). Dr. Shukla did his PhD in structural engineering from the University of Delaware, USA. He is the founder President and CEO, Innovative Technical Solutions, which is now a part of the Gilbane Construction Company. Seminar on Micro Solar Energy Generation and Utilization was held on 3rd and 4th September, 2011. The seminar was organized jointly by the Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Kanpur and the Institute of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE), Kanpur Centre.The theme of the seminar was making solar energy viable for domestic and commercial use. Different events like tutorials on solar energy, exhibition of solar products, and a solar working model, a panel discussion and poster paper contests were held during the two days. About 10-15 companies/vendors dealing in solar products exhibited their products in an Exhibition near the New Lecture Hall Complex. A souvenior of the seminar was also released. Lectures, tutorials and other details are available at the seminar site: www.iitk.ac.in/soarenergy. National Seminar on Aerospace Structures (NASAS) was held from 22nd to 24th September, 2011. NASAS is held periodically under the aegis of the Structures Panel of the Aeronautics Research & Development Board (AR&DB). It is a major forum for discussion on topics of importance in the field of aerospace structures. This seminar provides a platform to a large number of academicians, scientists, engineers, students and users to present their research work, exchange notes and share ideas for future growth of the field. The theme of the conference was Aerospace Structures. The research topics and research areas that were covered in the conference were composite structures, smart and adaptive structures, damage and failure analysis, structural health monitoring, structural dynamics and aeroelasticity, highly flexible structures, experimental methods, qualification and certification. To encourage and promote research in aerospace structures among young minds, the XVII NASAS had a session dedicated to poster presentations of student papers. The posters had to be authored solely by students with no faculty co-authorship and the best poster was given the AR&DB "Best student paper award". The National Seminar attracted more than 100 participants from Industry, R&D labs, academic institutions and defence services. More than 70 papers were presented, including five invited lectures by eminent designers, scientists and academicians. Udghosh 2011, the annual inter college sports festival of IIT Kanpur, was held from 22nd - 25th September, 2011. Udghosh 2011 witnessed participation from over 20 colleges from all over the country, competing in Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Chess, Cricket, Football, Hockey, Squash, Table Tennis, Taekwondo, Tennis, Volleyball and Weightlifting. There were also many informal events such as Mechanical Bull and movie screening for the entertainment of the students. The four-day event gave an opportunity to students to showcase their sporting talents, and compete against some of the best teams from across the nation. Mr. R. P. Singh, Mr. Piyush Chawla ( from the Indian Cricket Team ) and Mr. Ritwik Bhattacharya ( Indian Squash Team ) were the guests of honor at the closing ceremony on 25th September, 2011. The following positions were won by IIT Kanpur: Athletics: Men ( Team A ) – First position, Women (Team A) - First position, Women (Team B) - Second position; Badminton: Men – First position; Chess: Men – Second position; Cricket: Second position; Hockey: First position Squash: Second position; Table Tennis: Men – Second position, Women – Second position; Weight Lifting: First position. Antaragni, the annual cultural fest of IIT-Kanpur, was held from 13th to 16th October 2011. The themes of this years Antaragni were the Kryptonian spirit of Superman and the juvenile rebellion of Charlie Brown. It honoured the legends of caped crusaders and wild phantoms, of freckled American teenagers and talking stuffed tigers. Around 1,500 students from 150 different colleges across the country participated in the cultural event. The opening night, showcased the talents of critically acclaimed actors such as Rajat Kapoor, Yashpal Sharma, Anu Menon and many others in a play titled 'One on One'. This year Antaragni brought in SWANEE RIVER, the upcoming Irish sensation, to rock the grounds of IIT Kanpur with a mixture of rock, soul, funk and metal and A BACKWARD GLANCE ON A TRAVEL ROAD from France who took the audience to a universe of deep and dark ambience with their stunning music. An event called Director's Cut was held for the first time, where the audience were given a glimpse of the process of movie-making by Mr. Sanjay Gadhvi and Mr. Onir. A number of workshops were also held during the four-day festival. Ritambhara, the fashion show, Mridaksh, the personality contest, and a Kavi Sammelan, were some of the high points of the festival. Several teams displayed their acting skills and touched upon many social issues in street plays conducted in the open at the student activity centre (SAC). Arvind Jayashankar, a street magician from the Netherlands was another crowd puller. Blitzkrieg 2011 stunned the crowd of 15000 when the singing sensation Sunidhi Chauhan rocked the stage with many of her hit Bollywood songs. Prof. Arawind Sripad Parasnis passed away on 16th October 2011. Prof. Parasnis was born on 18th August 1928 at Ahmadnagar. He obtained his PhD from the University of Bristol in 1960 and joined IIT K the same year. He became a Professor in 1968 and superannuated in August 1988, but continued to serve the Institute till December 1989. Professor Parasnis was one of the first faculty members to join the Institute, when it was still operating from HBTI. He played a major role in the building of the Institute. He served as the Head, Department of Physics and was instrumental in starting the CELT and Laser Technology Programmes. He also championed the need for the position of Dean, Academic Affairs. Professor Parasnis started his career in crystallography, but quickly moved on to become an acknowledged authority on Holography. He trained several students in holography, and was responsible, together with his colleagues, in establishing a vibrant and highly acclaimed Optics group at IIT K. He was also instrumental in establishing the Undergraduate Physics Laboratories. An excellent teacher, his lectures were always interspersed with vivid experimental demonstrations. Even after his retirement, he continued to enthuse young students, in schools and colleges by showing them demonstrations and experiments. Prof. Parasnis is survived by his wife, Meira Parasnis, and two sons Kaushik and Gautam. The Institute expresses its deepest condolences to the bereaved family of Prof. Parasnis and prays for the peace of the departed souls. Published by: Office of the Dean, Resource Planning & Generation, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, Kanpur-208 016, India Phone: + 91-512-259 7635/ 7542 Fax: +91-512- 259 0353 Email – drpg@iitk.ac.in, arrpg@iitk.ac.in
