=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Juanita Bynum, Thomas Weeks Finalize Divorce - Kessler ...]
By KEN WALKER Thomas W. Weeks III and evangelist Juanita Bynum said they are moving on with their lives after their public and turbulent marriage ended June 20, roughly a month before the couple's sixth wedding anniversary. Bynum said the divorce is "not a sad thing," the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.
URL: https://www.ksfamilylaw.com/juanita-bynum-thomas-weeks-finalize-divorce/

[Weeks, Thomas III - Encyclopedia.com]
Thomas Weeks III 1967— Minister, writer Followers of preacher Thomas Weeks III, affectionately known among congregants as "Bishop Weeks," believed their leader had a marriage made in heaven. He and his wife, the nationally known televangelist and "prophetess" Juanita Bynum, never seemed to be far from one another's side. Following their much-publicized wedding in 2003 (which had been ...
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/education/news-wires-white-papers-and-books/weeks-thomas-iii

[Inside Juanita Bynum and Thomas Weeks III's Televised Wedding and ...]
The couple wed in a million-dollar, televised ceremony in July 2002. Over 80 million people watched the wedding. The major TV wedding that was on TBN was Juanita's desire to do it that way. The wedding gave a very tasteful presentation of her desire to present a wedding at the level of Juanita Bynum.
URL: https://wedding-stock.com/ceremonies/juanita-bynum-wedding

[Televangelist Bynum divorces her husband]
Jun 26, 2008 — Bynum and Weeks married in a lavish ceremony in 2002. They have written books and lectured together on love and relationships. Bynum leads a ...
URL: https://www.gainesville.com/story/news/2008/06/26/televangelist-bynum-divorces-her-husband/31570130007/

[Juanita Bynum, Thomas Weeks Finalize Divorce - Charisma]
[06.24.08] Thomas W. Weeks III and evangelist Juanita Bynum said they are moving on with their lives after their public and turbulent marriage ended June 20, roughly a month before the couple's sixth wedding anniversary.
URL: https://mycharisma.com/charisma-archive/juanita-bynum-thomas-weeks-finalize-divorce/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Juanita Bynum, Thomas Weeks Finalize Divorce - Kessler ...] ---
Juanita Bynum, Thomas Weeks Finalize Divorce Both Thomas W. Weeks III and evangelist Juanita Bynum say they are moving forward with their lives and ministries after their public marriage ended June 20. By KEN WALKER Thomas W. Weeks III and evangelist Juanita Bynum said they are moving on with their lives after their public and turbulent marriage ended June 20, roughly a month before the couple’s sixth wedding anniversary. Bynum said the divorce is “not a sad thing,” the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. “I always said that, ‘This too shall pass,’ and it just did.” Weeks said he will always have a “special love” for Bynum but is moving on with his life and ministry. “It feels like a new day—a brand-new life, a brand-new time,” he told Atlanta media. According to a 14-page divorce settlement, neither party will receive alimony. Weeks will maintain ownership of his international ministry and Global Destiny Ministries, the church the couple founded in Duluth, Ga. Bynum requested some antiques she had collected and agreed to pay $40,000 in attorney fees for Weeks. Their bank accounts were divided, and each party will retain ownership of the debt and assets they had before marriage. “It’s an even-handed agreement where they can move on with their lives and each keep what they have,” said Randy Kessler, Weeks’ attorney. Bynum and Weeks married in July 2002, nine months prior to a ceremony televised on the Trinity Broadcasting Network that included an 80-member wedding party and 10-piece orchestra. They separated in June 2007, but their troubles burst into national headlines Aug. 21 after Weeks was arrested for attacking his estranged wife in the parking lot of Atlanta’s Renaissance Concourse Hotel. Although Weeks maintained his innocence of spousal abuse, in mid-March he pleaded guilty to aggravated assault. Weeks, who received three years’ probation and 200 hours of community service, said he wanted to protect his wife from further scrutiny. “I wanted to bring closure [to the trial] so that she wouldn’t feel that I was trying to make this just a public matter to publicize a whole lot of negative things that would have come out,” Weeks told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. During the criminal trial, Weeks hinted that the couple was discussing reconciliation. But when those discussions broke down, Weeks re-released a tell-all book about his marriage titled What Love Taught Me. In it he includes chapters with titles such as “I’d Rather Push You Now Than Punch You Later” and “She Wanted to Be the Next Oprah at Any Cost.” In late April, Bynum revealed in a Divorce Court interview that she had battled with depression and thoughts of suicide after separating from her husband. Speaking with Judge Lynn Toler, Bynum said embarrassment and the fear of ending her ministry career made her reluctant to talk about her struggles as a victim of domestic violence. “You are trained in the traditional sense of religion to be the person that is always fine,” Bynum said. “I found myself trying to live up to that. … I didn’t want to look stupid.” Bynum said she has been hired as a regular adviser on Divorce Court and was permanently added to the cast of the ABC Family series Lincoln Heights, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. The case follows the split of another well-known pastoral couple, Randy and Paula White of Without Walls International Church in Tampa, Fla. Last summer, the Whites announced they were ending their 18-year marriage. Jimmy Evans, founder of the Dallas-based ministry Marriage Today, said both couples’ divorces are damaging to the body of Christ because people look to their leaders as examples and base a lot of their actions on what leaders do. “It’s just like what a parent does or does not [do] is a model for their child and gives them permission to do the same thing,” Evans said. In Bynum’s case, he thinks there is a great deal of sympathy for her because she was abused. However, Evans doesn’t extend that to the Whites, saying he senses “outrage” among many Christians because they didn’t identify the reasons for their divorce. “There’s a culture of this among high-profile, charismatic ministers, and they get away with it,” said Evans, former senior pastor and now senior elder of Trinity Fellowship Church in Amarillo, Texas. “They don’t stop in ministry and don’t submit themselves to counseling for reconciliation or restoration. It’s devastating to the institution of marriage and the ability of ministers to uphold a standard to their flock.” Atlanta-area minister Cynthia Hale agreed high-profile divorces make her job tougher, but doesn’t expect these two to have much impact on churches there. The real blow came last August when both incidents made headlines the same week, she said. Hale, senior pastor of Ray of Hope Christian Church in Decatur, Ga., told her congregation last August that they had to pray for all spiritual leaders who are on the front lines. “This is kind of an aftershock,” she said. “I’m not saying it will go by unnoticed, but I think people have pretty much moved on at this point.” Any time there is a scandal involving a minister it makes her job more challenging because people outside the church question what is different about being in Christ, she said. It also forces introspection among pastors, who must examine themselves and ask how they can live out the gospel when they have feet of clay, Hale added. “We just try to address it as openly and honestly as we can: Here are the realities and God’s power is still the greatest power—there’s nothing like it,” Hale said. “God can do anything and everything, but of course humans have free will and make choices.”


--- [Weeks, Thomas III - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Weeks, Thomas III Thomas Weeks III 1967— Minister, writer Followers of preacher Thomas Weeks III, affectionately known among congregants as "Bishop Weeks," believed their leader had a marriage made in heaven. He and his wife, the nationally known televangelist and "prophetess" Juanita Bynum, never seemed to be far from one another's side. Following their much-publicized wedding in 2003 (which had been preceded by a private civil ceremony in 2002), they preached about the sanctity of marriage and offered counsel on relationships in a popular series of books and workshops called Teach Me How to Love You. Congregants were shocked, to say the least, when in August of 2007 the preacher was accused of domestic violence following an altercation between Weeks and Bynum in an Atlanta, Georgia, hotel parking lot. Weeks, charged with assault, maintained his innocence, while Bynum began speaking publicly about their rocky relationship, calling herself the "new face of domestic violence." The bizarre battle that played out between Weeks and Bynum, both in the courtroom and in the court of public opinion, seemed as if it were straight out of a soap opera. In the aftermath of the couple's divorce, Weeks has tried to rebuild his reputation in the church by telling his side of the story. Thomas Wesley Weeks III was born in 1967 in Boston, Massachusetts, the eldest son of Thomas W. Weeks and Leona Brown Weeks. After living in New York and Indiana, his family settled in Wilmington, Delaware, where his father was pastor and then bishop of the Greater Bethel Apostolic Temple. Thomas Weeks III attended the University of Delaware, majoring in mass communications. Then, heeding the call of the church, as his father and grandfather had done before him, Weeks went on to study theology and Christian counseling at the Christian International College of Theology. He was ordained as an elder in the Pentecostal Assemblies of the World and served under his father's pastorate, though both men would leave the denomination in 2001. Established Church in Washington, DC Thomas Weeks III established the Global Destiny Church, an evangelical church in Washington, DC, in 1997. The enterprise expanded in 2003 to encompass a global outreach ministry for the Internet community, MyGlobalDestiny.com. A second church in Duluth, Georgia, just outside Atlanta, opened in 2006, and a third location in California was planned. As part of his ministry, Weeks lectured widely at churches across the country and wrote several books outlining the relationship between faith and prosperity. Weeks and Bynum, both of whom had been married previously, wed in a private ceremony in Las Vegas on July 22, 2002, but did not announce their union until October of that year. In the spring of 2003, the couple threw a lavish million-dollar wedding at the Regent Wall Street Hotel in New York City that was attended by nearly one thousand guests and televised on the Trinity Broadcasting Network. At the ceremony Weeks presented Bynum, flanked by a wedding party of eighty people, with a 7.76-carat diamond ring. "This was my once-in-a-lifetime wedding," Bynum famously told Ebony magazine in February 2004. "I did it this way because I plan to stay married." Following their marriage,Weeks and Bynum developed a series of workshops and books called Teach Me How to Love You, in which they counseled Christian congregants on how to build a healthy relationship. In 2006 they moved from Washington, DC, to a new $2.5 million home in Duluth, where they were setting up a second ministry. The couple suffered serious financial problems—Weeks reportedly had left a number of creditors unpaid upon departing Washington—and church members began to suspect that all was not well. According to a report in Essence magazine, Weeks removed photographs of his wife at the church and minimized her presence there. The couple separated in June of 2007. On the night of August 21, 2007, Weeks and Bynum met at the Renaissance Concourse Hotel in Atlanta to discuss their marital problems. They began arguing in the hotel parking lot around 4:00 a.m. According to police reports, Weeks choked Bynum, pushed her to the ground, and then began kicking her, leaving her with bruises on the neck and upper torso. The altercation ended when a bellman pulled Weeks off his wife. Bynum refused offers of police and ambulance assistance, though she later visited a hospital, and photographs of her bruises soon appeared on the Internet. Weeks fled the scene but, two days later, turned himself in to police at the Fulton County Jail. He was released on a $40,000 bond and ordered to have no contact with Bynum. In court Weeks pleaded not guilty to charges of aggravated assault, terroristic threats, and simple battery. In the aftermath of the attack, Weeks blamed the devil for the alleged assault, and held to his statement that he had done nothing more than "push" his wife. Later he claimed that, in fact, he was the one who had been abused in the relationship. "I never hit or did anything to physically harm her," Weeks said, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution on December 19, 2007. "I have been the one that has been physically abused. I kept it quiet for over 90 days. I have been struck on the face and in the head…. I have been choked." Bynum filed for divorce in September, and soon began speaking publicly about their relationship, which, she said, had been troubled since at least 2005. She appeared on the Tom Joyner radio program and on Fox television's Divorce Court, counseling a couple that was considering divorce. In December of 2007 she granted a lengthy interview with Essence magazine, in which she aired the couple's dirty laundry. Weeks countered by publishing a tell-all book, What Love Taught Me, containing chapters with such provocative titles as "I'd Rather Push You Now Than Punch You Later." At a Glance … Born Thomas Wesley Weeks III in 1967 in Boston, MA; son of Thomas Wesley Weeks and Leona Brown Weeks; married second wife, Juanita Bynum, July 22, 2002 (divorced 2008); children: Sydnie. Education: Studied mass communications at University of Delaware; studied theology and Christian counseling at Christian International College of Theology. Career: New Destiny Fellowship (formerly Greater Bethel Apostolic Temple), church administrator, assistant pastor, bishop; Global Destiny Church, pastor and bishop, 1997—. Addresses: Agent—Double XXposure Media Relations, 1 W. 34th St., Ste. 201, New York, NY 10001-3011. Web—http://www.bishopweeks.com. Pleaded Guilty in March of 2008 Though he had steadfastly maintained his innocence for more than six months, even reaffirming his not-guilty plea in February of 2008, Weeks surprised the court in March, when he pleaded guilty to one count of aggravated assault, then turned to Bynum and said, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution on March 12, 2008, "I want to apologize to my wife for all actions you had to go through. I know it has been difficult. I appreciate you and I thank you." Surprisingly, Bynum asked the court not to send her husband to jail, at the request of Weeks's grandfather. Sentenced as a first offender to three years' probation, Weeks was required to undergo violence and anger counseling and complete two hundred hours of community service outside the church. In statements outside the courtroom, Weeks told reporters that he had changed his plea to spare his wife further embarrassment. Weeks returned to the pulpit at Global Destiny Church in April, though the congregation, divided in their loyalties to Weeks and Bynum, was much diminished. Although rumors of a possible reconciliation swirled—fueled by images of the couple embracing during depositions—Weeks and Bynum finalized their divorce on June 20, 2008. Weeks retained ownership of Global Destiny Church and his international ministry. He rereleased What Love Taught Me, developing the book into a webinar (Web-based seminar) and lecture series, and planned to publish a new book, with the title Finding Yourself While in Transition: For Singles and Divorcees, in 2009. Selected writings (With Juanita Bynum) Teach Me How to Love You, Legacy Publishing, 2003. Even as Your Soul Prospers: Realize Your Purpose, Release Your Blessings, Harrison House, 2004. 40 Days to a Prosperous Soul Devotional: When You Know Your Purpose, It's Time to Unlock Your Abundance, Harrison House, 2005. What's on Your Mind? Your Success Begins with Your Thinking, Harrison House, 2006. Next Level Living: Mastering the Good Life God Has Given You, Harrison House, 2007. What Love Taught Me, Global Destiny Publishing, 2008. Sources Periodicals Atlanta Journal-Constitution, December 19, 2007; February 26, 2008; March 10, 2008, p. B5; March 12, 2008, p. B1. Ebony, February 2004. Essence, November 2007, p. 162. Jet, September 10, 2007. New York Times, September 20, 2007. Online "About Thomas Weeks III," Harrison House, http://www.harrisonhouse.com/eaysp/index.php?body=about_author (accessed July 31, 2008). Bishop Weeks Official Web Site, http://www.bishopweeks.com (accessed July 31, 2008). —Deborah A. Ring More From encyclopedia.com You Might Also Like NEARBY TERMS Weeks, Thomas III


--- [Inside Juanita Bynum and Thomas Weeks III's Televised Wedding and ...] ---
Juanita Bynum and Thomas Weeks III: A Televised Wedding and Tumultuous Divorce The story of Juanita Bynum and Thomas Weeks III is one of a lavish televised wedding followed by a public and contentious divorce. Their marriage, which played a prominent role in their ministries, ultimately crumbled amidst allegations of cruel treatment and abuse. The Million-Dollar Wedding The couple wed in a million-dollar, televised ceremony in July 2002. Over 80 million people watched the wedding. The major TV wedding that was on TBN was Juanita's desire to do it that way. The wedding gave a very tasteful presentation of her desire to present a wedding at the level of Juanita Bynum. The Cracks Begin to Show Just days into their official marriage in July 2002, Bynum, who was now in her second marriage, filed for divorce after the rumor surfaced, Weeks told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution in a sprawling interview on Wednesday. Weeks told reporters their estrangement began June 3 when Bynum announced to the church that she was “planning to leave our church never to return.” Bynum told officers Weeks “choked her, pushed her down, kicked and stomped her ... until a bellman pulled him off of her.” Weeks said they spent one night together in August that boosted his hopes for reconciliation. The first word she said to me after we got married is she felt like she was stuck. She wanted to make an adjustment into marriage. She wanted to be married a year before we told people. She wanted to keep her base. She is the queen of ‘No More Sheets,’ so how would all the women who support her ministry, who are single, feel about her getting married. But someone put a note on her car saying that “they knew we were married,” so Bynum announced a wedding date on TBN, a Christian network. Over the next four years or so, the relationship between Weeks and the woman he met in 1998, the same year his first wife divorced him, was on shaky ground. See also: 10 Stunning Simple Rustic Wedding Bouquet Ideas That Will Steal the Show. Allegations of Abuse and Divorce Proceedings Bynum’s divorce petitions cited “cruel treatment” and said the marriage is “irretrievably broken.” The next day, Aug. 22, Bynum claims her husband beat her. Weeks faces charges of aggravated assault and making terroristic threats. Weeks is free on $40,000 bond and is not allowed to have contact with Bynum. In the response, Weeks admits to most of the allegations in Bynum’s complaint, but denies her assertion that the two have been separated since June. Attorneys for Thomas W. Weeks III were expected to file his counterclaim for divorce later Wednesday. The four-page document goes beyond simply answering Bynum’s petition and makes a case for Weeks. Weeks’ response to his wife’s divorce filing asks that the court equitably divide the couple’s debts and assets. Weeks recently came out in an interview with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, expressing skepticism about Bynum's account and further accusing his estranged wife of abusing him. There have been other attempts for separation prior to Bynum filing for divorce in August, Weeks said. He explained that there were 10-day to two-week separations, and the first divorce papers were over an accusation that Weeks was gay. Some adviser in her life concoted a story that I was gay; never have been one fraction of a second. She retracted that before the major wedding that was on TV. The husband of televangelist Juanita Bynum denies that he treated her cruelly and says they have not been continuously separated since June, as her divorce petition alleges. Now they have each asked for a divorce,” said Randy Kessler, one of Weeks’ attorneys. Weeks said that his marital problems all began after one of Bynum’s associates fabricated a tale about him being gay. Weeks told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution in a sprawling interview on Wednesday. Bynum, who allegedly dealt with domestic violence in her first marriage, has filed for divorce. If that isn't enough, an alleged lesbian sex tape featuring Bynum has recently surfaced on YouTube. Some have also speculated that Weeks is gay or on the "DL." Whew! That's a lot. Differing Accounts of Abuse Weeks recently came out in an interview with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, expressing skepticism about Bynum's account and further accusing his estranged wife of abusing him. Weeks said that there were moments of dysfunction, not physical abuse. Weeks said: "Certainly there was heated fellowship. I never hit or did anything to physically harm her. I have been the one that has been physically abused. I kept it quiet and silent for over 90 days. I have been struck on the face and in the head ... with a fist. I have been choked ... We had gone to counseling." Denying Bynum's accusations about the Aug. 21 attack, he said, "I did not choke my wife, I did not beat my wife, I did not kick nor stomp her. A woman said to be kicked, punched, choked and brutally beaten by her husband, does she show up at the hospital four hours later ... and refuse to let the police take official pictures of all of the bruises?" Bynum's Response and New Ministry In the January 2008 issue of Essence magazine, Bynum confirmed her allegation against now former husband Thomas W. Weeks III for assaulting her at a hotel parking lot in Atlanta in August. Prophetess Juanita Bynum opened up about her recent marriage that ended in a messy divorce and her anticipated new ministry on domestic violence in the upcoming issue of a popular magazine that targets the black community. "I am a woman in the kingdom, and this happened to me, and I have absolutely no reason to lie about what happened to me," she said in the interview with Essence. Bynum responded that she doesn't have time to focus on people who do not like her. The prophetess, who has said she forgives Weeks, is currently launching a new ministry that tackles domestic violence in the black community. She has been called the new face of domestic violence and does not intend to move on her with ministry as a televangelist and speaker as if the alleged attack never happened. "What I'm willing to bring to the table at this point is what I'm walking through right now," she said in the interview regarding her new mission. "I believe that I can bring it and impart it into the hearts of women with conviction." According to the National Organization for Women, it is estimated that 2 to 4 million women of all races and classes are battered each year, although only 572,000 reports of assault by intimates - spouses, ex-spouses, boyfriends or girlfriends - are officially reported to federal officials. Meanwhile, Weeks has pleaded not guilty to charges of aggravated assault and making terrorist threats. He is free on $40,000 bond and is not allowed to have contact with Bynum, according to The Associated Press. Related articles: Ultimate Blush Ties Wedding Guide: Stunning Styles & Tips You Can’t Miss!. Key Events in the Bynum-Weeks Marriage | Date | Event | |---|---| | July 2002 | Juanita Bynum and Thomas Weeks III wed in a million-dollar, televised ceremony. | | July 2002 | Rumors surface about Weeks being gay, leading to initial divorce papers. | | June 3 | Bynum announces to the church that she is planning to leave, marking the beginning of their estrangement. | | August 22 | Bynum claims Weeks assaulted her at an Atlanta hotel. | | August | Bynum files for divorce, citing cruel treatment and an irretrievably broken marriage. |


--- [Televangelist Bynum divorces her husband] ---
Televangelist Bynum divorces her husband Televangelist Juanita Bynum and husband Thomas W. Weeks ended their marriage in divorce court last Friday, several months after an altercation in a hotel parking lot landed Weeks in jail on charges he choked and beat his wife. The couple exchanged few words and barely glanced each other's way during a hearing that ended their six-year marriage. Bynum signed a settlement agreement the week before that was offered by Weeks, and the proceeding before a judge in suburban Atlanta lasted less than an hour. Bynum filed for divorce in September, a month after the quarrel in the parking lot of an Atlanta hotel. Weeks ultimately pleaded guilty to assaulting her and is serving three years' probation. A 14-page document said neither party will receive alimony and Bynum will pay $40,000 of Weeks' legal fees. The decision also restored Juanita Bynum's maiden name as her legal one, though she never used Weeks' last name while they were married. Bynum left the courthouse smiling. "I said from the beginning of this situation that this, too, shall pass, and it just did,'' she said. Weeks also appeared in high spirits. "It feels like a new day,'' he said outside court, adding he still has a "special love'' for Bynum. Bynum and Weeks married in a lavish ceremony in 2002. They have written books and lectured together on love and relationships. Bynum leads a ministry that also includes a gospel record label and seminar tours. She has sold thousands of motivational books, CDs and DVDs related to empowerment and relationships. Weeks, known to his followers as Bishop Weeks, co-wrote "Teach Me How to Love: The Beginnings'' with Bynum.


--- [Juanita Bynum, Thomas Weeks Finalize Divorce - Charisma] ---
[06.24.08] Thomas W. Weeks III and evangelist Juanita Bynum said they are moving on with their lives after their public and turbulent marriage ended June 20, roughly a month before the couple’s sixth wedding anniversary. Although Weeks maintained his innocence of spousal abuse, in mid-March he pleaded guilty to aggravated assault. Weeks, who received three years’ probation and 200 hours of community service, said he wanted to protect his wife from further scrutiny. “I wanted to bring closure [to the trial] so that she wouldn’t feel that I was trying to make this just a public matter to publicize a whole lot of negative things that would have come out,” Weeks told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. During the criminal trial, Weeks hinted that the couple was discussing reconciliation. But when those discussions broke down, Weeks re-released a tell-all book about his marriage titled What Love Taught Me. In it he includes chapters with titles such as “I’d Rather Push You Now Than Punch You Later” and “She Wanted to Be the Next Oprah at Any Cost.” The case follows the split of another well-known pastoral couple, Randy and Paula White of Without Walls International Church in Tampa, Fla. Last summer, the Whites announced they were ending their 18-year marriage. Jimmy Evans, founder of the Dallas-based ministry Marriage Today, said both couples’ divorces are damaging to the body of Christ because people look to their leaders as examples and base a lot of their actions on what leaders do. “It’s just like what a parent does or does not [do] is a model for their child and gives them permission to do the same thing,” Evans said. Atlanta-area minister Cynthia Hale agreed high-profile divorces make her job tougher, but doesn’t expect these two to have much impact on churches there. The real blow came last August when both incidents made headlines the same week, she said. Bynum said the divorce is “not a sad thing,” the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. “I always said that, ‘This too shall pass,’ and it just did.” Weeks said he will always have a “special love” for Bynum but is moving on with his life and ministry. “It feels like a new day—a brand-new life, a brand-new time,” he told Atlanta media. According to a 14-page divorce settlement, neither party will receive alimony. Weeks will maintain ownership of his international ministry and Global Destiny Ministries, the church the couple founded in Duluth, Ga. Bynum requested some antiques she had collected and agreed to pay $40,000 in attorney fees for Weeks. Their bank accounts were divided, and each party will retain ownership of the debt and assets they had before marriage. “It’s an even-handed agreement where they can move on with their lives and each keep what they have,” said Randy Kessler, Weeks’ attorney. Bynum and Weeks married in July 2002, nine months prior to a ceremony televised on the Trinity Broadcasting Network that included an 80-member wedding party and 10-piece orchestra. They separated in June 2007, but their troubles burst into national headlines Aug. 21 after Weeks was arrested for attacking his estranged wife in the parking lot of Atlanta’s Renaissance Concourse Hotel. Although Weeks maintained his innocence of spousal abuse, in mid-March he pleaded guilty to aggravated assault. Weeks, who received three years’ probation and 200 hours of community service, said he wanted to protect his wife from further scrutiny. “I wanted to bring closure [to the trial] so that she wouldn’t feel that I was trying to make this just a public matter to publicize a whole lot of negative things that would have come out,” Weeks told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. During the criminal trial, Weeks hinted that the couple was discussing reconciliation. But when those discussions broke down, Weeks re-released a tell-all book about his marriage titled What Love Taught Me. In it he includes chapters with titles such as “I’d Rather Push You Now Than Punch You Later” and “She Wanted to Be the Next Oprah at Any Cost.” In late April, Bynum revealed in a Divorce Court interview that she had battled with depression and thoughts of suicide after separating from her husband. Speaking with Judge Lynn Toler, Bynum said embarrassment and the fear of ending her ministry career made her reluctant to talk about her struggles as a victim of domestic violence. “You are trained in the traditional sense of religion to be the person that is always fine,” Bynum said. “I found myself trying to live up to that. … I didn’t want to look stupid.” Bynum said she has been hired as a regular adviser on Divorce Court and was permanently added to the cast of the ABC Family series Lincoln Heights, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported. The case follows the split of another well-known pastoral couple, Randy and Paula White of Without Walls International Church in Tampa, Fla. Last summer, the Whites announced they were ending their 18-year marriage. Jimmy Evans, founder of the Dallas-based ministry Marriage Today, said both couples’ divorces are damaging to the body of Christ because people look to their leaders as examples and base a lot of their actions on what leaders do. “It’s just like what a parent does or does not [do] is a model for their child and gives them permission to do the same thing,” Evans said. In Bynum’s case, he thinks there is a great deal of sympathy for her because she was abused. However, Evans doesn’t extend that to the Whites, saying he senses “outrage” among many Christians because they didn’t identify the reasons for their divorce. “There’s a culture of this among high-profile, charismatic ministers, and they get away with it,” said Evans, former senior pastor and now senior elder of Trinity Fellowship Church in Amarillo, Texas. “They don’t stop in ministry and don’t submit themselves to counseling for reconciliation or restoration. It’s devastating to the institution of marriage and the ability of ministers to uphold a standard to their flock.” Atlanta-area minister Cynthia Hale agreed high-profile divorces make her job tougher, but doesn’t expect these two to have much impact on churches there. The real blow came last August when both incidents made headlines the same week, she said. Hale, senior pastor of Ray of Hope Christian Church in Decatur, Ga., told her congregation last August that they had to pray for all spiritual leaders who are on the front lines. “This is kind of an aftershock,” she said. “I’m not saying it will go by unnoticed, but I think people have pretty much moved on at this point.” Any time there is a scandal involving a minister it makes her job more challenging because people outside the church question what is different about being in Christ, she said. It also forces introspection among pastors, who must examine themselves and ask how they can live out the gospel when they have feet of clay, Hale added. “We just try to address it as openly and honestly as we can: Here are the realities and God’s power is still the greatest power—there’s nothing like it,” Hale said. “God can do anything and everything, but of course humans have free will and make choices.” —Ken Walker
