=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hong Joon-pyo - Wikipedia]
On 24 June 2021, Hong rejoined the People Power Party (which had formerly been called the United Future Party until 2 September 2020) and signaled a presidential bid in the upcoming 2022 South Korean presidential election. On 29 June 2021, Hong Joon-pyo officially entered the 2022 presidential ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Joon-pyo

[5-term lawmaker Hong Joon-pyo admitted back to main opposition party | Yonhap News Agency]
SEOUL, June 24 (Yonhap) -- Five-term lawmaker Hong Joon-pyo was admitted back to the main opposition People Power Party (PPP) on Thursday via a unanimous decision by the party's leadership. The PPP's supreme council made the decision to return the party membership to Hong, a former floor leader of the biggest conservative party who ran for the presidency in 2017 on its ticket. Hong defected ...
URL: https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20210624007000315

[People Power Party - Wikipedia]
Hong Jun-pyo, who showed an intention to return to the UFP, also opposed the proposal and revealed Kim's past corruption allegations. On 8 May, Joo Ho-young was elected the UFP's Floor Leader, automatically becoming the party's interim Leader. On 22 May, the party held an election to nominate Kim Chong-in as the interim President until the next by-elections on 7 April 2021, which he accepted.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People_Power_Party

[Hong Joon-pyo - Wikiwand]
On 24 June 2021, Hong rejoined the People Power Party (which had formerly been called the United Future Party until 2 September 2020) and signaled a presidential bid in the upcoming 2022 South Korean presidential election.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/%ED%99%8D%EC%A4%80%ED%91%9C

[June - Wikipedia]
In the Southern Hemisphere, June is the start of winter and contains the winter solstice, the day with the fewest hours of daylight out of the year. In places north of the Arctic Circle, the June solstice is when the midnight sun occurs, during which the Sun remains visible even at midnight.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/June


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hong Joon-pyo - Wikipedia] ---
Hong Joon-pyo (Korean: 홍준표; born 5 December 1954 ) is a South Korean retired politician and prosecutor who served as the mayor of Daegu from 2022 to 2025. He previously served as the governor of South Gyeongsang Province, a member of the National Assembly for five terms, and the party leader of the conservative Grand National Party in 2011 and its successor incarnation the Liberty Korea Party from 2017 to 2018.
He was the presidential nominee of the Liberty Korea Party in the 2017 South Korean presidential election and came in second place during the general election, losing to Moon Jae-in. Hong ran as a candidate in the 2022 South Korean presidential election for the nomination of the conservative People Power Party and came in second place during the primaries, narrowly losing to Yoon Suk Yeol. Hong was elected Mayor of Daegu in 2022, but he resigned to launch his third campaign for the presidency in the 2025 South Korean presidential election. Although he advanced from the first round, Hong ultimately failed to win the party primary, subsequently announcing his retirement from politics.


--- [5-term lawmaker Hong Joon-pyo admitted back to main opposition party | Yonhap News Agency] ---
5-term lawmaker Hong Joon-pyo admitted back to main opposition party SEOUL, June 24 (Yonhap) -- Five-term lawmaker Hong Joon-pyo was admitted back to the main opposition People Power Party (PPP) on Thursday via a unanimous decision by the party's leadership. The PPP's supreme council made the decision to return the party membership to Hong, a former floor leader of the biggest conservative party who ran for the presidency in 2017 on its ticket. Hong defected from the main opposition party, then named the United Future Party, in March last year in protest against its decision to disqualify him from running for the 2020 parliamentary election on the party's ticket. Hong left the party and won a parliamentary seat representing a constituency in Daegu as an independent. PPP Chairman Lee Jun-seok later said the party's supreme council gave its unanimous consent to Hong's return to the party. Welcoming the party decision, Hong said in a press conference he will devote himself to helping the conservative party reclaim the presidency, hinting at his interest in running in the upcoming presidential election in March. "Upholding justice, freedom, ordinary people and communication as my banners, I will serve as a seed for a change of power," Hong noted. pbr@yna.co.kr (END) - (3rd LD) Lee orders safety measures for S. Koreans after U.S.-Israel attacks on Iran - (2nd LD) N. Korea's Kim warns of 'terrible' retaliation against hostile military acts at military parade - 8th Army's new deputy commanding officer for S. Korea takes office - BTS unveils 14-song track list for comeback album 'Arirang' - (URGENT) N. Korea's Kim vows to fully exercise nuclear-armed state status at party congress: KCNA - (3rd LD) Lee orders safety measures for S. Koreans after U.S.-Israel attacks on Iran - 8th Army's new deputy commanding officer for S. Korea takes office - (4th LD) Lee, Singapore PM agree to launch FTA upgrade talks, strengthen AI cooperation - Lee steps up verbal warning against multiple home owners after listing private home for sale - Defense chief orders inspection of dispatched troops' safety following U.S. strikes in Iran - KRX activates circuit breaker on KOSPI, KOSDAQ, halting trade for 20 minutes - (URGENT) KRX activates circuit breaker on KOSPI, KOSDAQ markets, halting trading for 20 minutes - Brazilian woman indicted for stalking BTS member Jungkook - Trump might find it 'much more difficult' to consider military option against N. Korea than Iran: expert - (2nd LD) Lee, Philippine president agree to expand defense industry, nuclear power cooperation


--- [People Power Party - Wikipedia] ---
The People Power Party (PPP; Korean: 국민의힘; lit. 'Power of Nationals') is a conservative and right-wing to far-right political party in South Korea. It is the second-largest party in the National Assembly. The PPP, along with its historic rival the Democratic Party, make up the two largest political parties in South Korea.
The PPP was founded as the United Future Party (UFP) on 17 February 2020 through the merger of the Liberty Korea Party, New Conservative Party, and Onward for Future 4.0, as well as several minor parties and political organizations. It contested the 2020 legislative election together with its satellite party, the Future Korea Party; the alliance achieved the worst conservative result since 1960. The party renamed to the People Power Party on 31 August 2020. It achieved electoral success in the 2021 by-elections. In 2022, PPP presidential candidate Yoon Suk Yeol was elected as the president of South Korea, followed by PPP victories in the 2022 local elections. Due to the unpopularity of the Yoon administration, the party lost the 2024 legislative election. Yoon declared martial law in December 2024, prompting his impeachment. In 2025, PPP candidate Kim Moon-soo lost the presidential election to Democratic Party candidate Lee Jae Myung, returning PPP to the opposition.
The PPP is generally seen as right-wing and conservative. It supports economic liberalism and fiscal conservatism, and has been described as socially conservative, hostile towards feminism and communism. It favors strengthening South Korea's alliance with the United States, as well as improving relations with Japan. The PPP takes a hawkish stance towards North Korea, as well as an ambiguous stance on relations with China.




--- [Hong Joon-pyo - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [June - Wikipedia] ---
June is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars—the latter the most widely used calendar in the world. Its length is 30 days. June succeeds May and precedes July. This month marks the start of summer in the Northern Hemisphere and contains the summer solstice, which is the day with the most daylight hours. In the Southern Hemisphere, June is the start of winter and contains the winter solstice, the day with the fewest hours of daylight out of the year.
In places north of the Arctic Circle, the June solstice is when the midnight sun occurs, during which the Sun remains visible even at midnight. The Atlantic hurricane season—when tropical or subtropical cyclones are most likely to form in the north Atlantic Ocean—begins on 1 June and lasts until 30 November. Several monsoons and subsequent wet seasons also commence in the Northern Hemisphere during this month. Multiple meteor showers occur annually in June, including the Arietids, which are among the most intense daylight meteor showers of the year; they last between 22 May and 2 July, peaking in intensity on 8 June.
Numerous observances take place in June. Midsummer, the celebration of the summer solstice in the Northern Hemisphere, is celebrated in several countries. In Catholicism, this month is dedicated to the devotion of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, and known as the Month of the Sacred Heart. In the United States, June is dedicated to Pride Month, a month-long observance of the LGBTQ community. Father's Day, which honours fathers and fatherhood, occurs on the third Sunday in June in most countries.


