=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[James Murray (lexicographer) - Wikipedia]
Two years later, they had a daughter Anna, who soon died of tuberculosis, then known as consumption. Maggie, too, fell ill with the same disease, and on the advice of doctors, the couple moved to London to escape the Scottish winters.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Murray_(lexicographer)

[The Wild True Story About The Origins Of The Oxford English Dictionary ...]
There were many an editor and leader during the making of the Oxford English Dictionary, but one of the most intellectual and highly motivated was James Augustus Henry Murray. While he was a renowned lexicographer recognized for his massive contributions, there's a common misconception that he was a brilliant scholar who had spent years studying his craft. This is partly true, as he was an ...
URL: https://www.grunge.com/327957/the-wild-true-story-about-the-origins-of-the-oxford-english-dictionary/

[Chief Editors of the OED - Oxford English Dictionary]
In this section we give brief biographies of the Chief Editors of the Oxford English Dictionary. James Murray (18 37 -1915) Principal Editor of the Oxford English Dictionary, James Augustus Henry Murray was born the son of a tailor in Denholm, Scotland. Educated locally until the age of 14, Murray showed an aptitude for language from a very early age, eventually learning around 25 different ...
URL: https://www.oed.com/information/about-the-oed/history-of-the-oed/chief-editors-of-the-oed/

[Sir James Murray | Oxford English Dictionary, lexicography, etymology ...]
Feb 3, 2026 · Sir James Murray (born February 7, 1837, Denholm, Roxburghshire [now Scottish Borders], Scotland—died July 26, 1915, Oxford, Oxfordshire, England) was a Scottish lexicographer and the first editor (from 1879) of A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles, now known as The Oxford English Dictionary. He was knighted in 1908.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-Murray

[Scurvy: A tale of the sailors' curse and a cure that got lost]
Nov 16, 2016 · One doctor aptly dubbed it “an Iliad of diseases”. With such confusion, the cause of scurvy was vigorously debated and attributed to everything from tainted fruit to lack of oxygen.
URL: https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg23231002-300-scurvy-a-tale-of-the-sailors-curse-and-a-cure-that-got-lost/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [James Murray (lexicographer) - Wikipedia] ---
Sir James Augustus Henry Murray, FBA (; 7 February 1837 – 26 July 1915) was a British lexicographer and philologist. He was the primary editor of the Oxford English Dictionary (OED) from 1879 until his death.


--- [The Wild True Story About The Origins Of The Oxford English Dictionary ...] ---
The Wild True Story About The Origins Of The Oxford English Dictionary The English language is quite the contradiction. It is equal parts frustrating and fascinating and is as nonsensical as it is logical (see: knight/night or the different pronunciations and meanings of the word "bow"). The origin of the words themselves is where things become even more intriguing, learning about the roots and back story of where the components that make up our everyday conversations come from. But what about the history of the book that collects all of that information? Yes, a dictionary. Perhaps the last time you cracked one open was many years ago back in school, but its back story and epic journey lives on, as its online iteration serves many people every day. While it may not be something you often consider, dictionaries often have wild and weird stories hiding amongst their pages, and the Oxford English Dictionary (OED) is no exception to lore. In fact, it has one of the most fascinating creation stories of all — one that involves murder, mental illness, decades of work, tragic endings, and many, many words in between. London's Philological Society realized there were no reliable books like this available Upon realizing that there were no compilations of English words that were grammatically and historically accurate — as well as relevant for the times — London's Philological Society decided it would start the 70-year journey to making it happen. It would include words from Anglo Saxon times to where they stood presently, which at the time was the 1800s. According to The Philological Society, James Augustus Henry Murray was the first official editor of the Philological Society's New English Dictionary on Historical Principles — aka NED. (This was the Oxford English Dictionary's original name, and it didn't receive the title it's known as today until 1933.) Murray was a major figure throughout most of the process and helped make the book the historical living legend it is today. Sure, dictionaries had been made before, but History explains that what made the OED so different is that it not only provided definitions, but it gave "a detailed chronological history for every word and phrase, citing quotations from a wide range of sources, including classic literature and cookbooks." It took 27 years for the first part of the Oxford English Dictionary to be published This exhaustive book was a seven-decade process in total — this was roughly 60 years longer than the Philological Society thought it would initially take. It took an extensive list of people from all walks of life and all across the globe to complete it, including the mayors of small towns in England to government officials from faraway islands, according to History Today. After nearly 30 years, the first "fascicle" was compiled and published, and its first chapters were released in 1884. Unfortunately, as the Philological Society explains, at this point most of the original contributors and editors were dead and unable to celebrate its launch. While this may not seem like, the project did take a long time after all, many of the surviving members of the society and project began to worry about their futures. Fiona Marshall writes in her article, "The History of the Philological Society: The Early Years," "Aware of his own impending death, [Frederick] Furnivall wrote to Murray following a meeting of the Society in April 1909 expressing his sorrow at having to miss the closing stages of the project. As Murray's friends and colleagues died one by one, he too was left to wonder which would come to an end first, himself or the project." Unfortunately, James Murray too died, 13 years prior to the final installation's release in 1928. Sir James Augustus Henry Murray was a major player There were many an editor and leader during the making of the Oxford English Dictionary, but one of the most intellectual and highly motivated was James Augustus Henry Murray. While he was a renowned lexicographer recognized for his massive contributions, there's a common misconception that he was a brilliant scholar who had spent years studying his craft. This is partly true, as he was an incredibly smart man, but his schooling had very little to do with it, according to Pembroke College Oxford. Just shy of 15, Murray left his modest village school, and that would end up being the last version of formal education he received for a long time. Oxford University Press explains that his natural brilliance helped carry him through life, leading him to several teaching gigs and eventually becoming an avid member of the Philological Society — studying all things words, dialects, and languages on a self-taught basis. His smarts were only further exemplified upon going back to school to earn a degree from London and then being endowed with an honorary degree from Edinburgh University. He also chose to stay dedicated to his students by teaching while working on the OED, according to Oxford University Press. Eventually, Murray would go on to finish about half of the dictionary himself, says Britannica, an exhausting, but ultimately rewarding accomplishment that featured many interesting characters and experiences along the way. William Chester Minor was one of the most important volunteers The bizarre roots and drama that sits behind the OED starts and ends with William Chester Minor. While there may be many secrets and untold truths behind putting together this large compilation, Minor's story is the most widely known. He was an American war physician who was born in Sri Lanka and found himself living in England following the American Civil War, reports the BBC. Minor was smart and quiet, but he suffered from intrusive thoughts that started early in life. Though, it wasn't until later in his career that he developed what seems to have been paranoid schizophrenia, which many believe the war set off. His life was overtaken by his mental illness, and though he tried to protect himself from night terrors and hallucinations, it all came to a tragic end one evening. William Chester Minor murdered a man, which led to a connection to the OED William Chester Minor awoke startled one night to an intruder in his home. To defend himself he ran out of his house to search for the person stalking him in the dark. The sad unfortunate truth was no one had been in Minor's room to begin with, but his brain said otherwise. Spotting a man walking down the street, Minor shot at him several times and killed him. Minor had killed George Merritt (also spelled Merrett in some reports), a man who worked nights at the Red Lion Brewery to help provide for his large family, as per Mental Floss. After a police intervention, and Minor baffled by the fact that he did something wrong, his case was held in court. He was let off the hook under the pretense of old England's version of the mental illness defense but given a life sentence at Broadmoor's Asylum for the Criminally Insane. While the story is grim, and Merritt's family was left husband-less and father-less, Minor's life sentence eventually led to a small silver lining for him — his involvement with the Oxford English Dictionary. The victim's wife ended up befriending William Minor and brought him books Because William Minor sent money to the widow of the man he killed, the two developed an acquaintanceship. She ended up being a frequent visitor, who provided books and conversation to Minor at the Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum. This budding friendship wasn't the only luxury Minor had while at Broadmoor. The hospital itself wasn't such a bad place to be to begin with. While being locked up, Minor had access to gorgeous views and nature walks, as well as a farm and workshops, which were considered to be more lavish luxuries in comparison to what other mental hospitals at the time provided. According to Psychology Today, patients even seconded the notion that their accommodation at Broadmoor far surpassed that of other prisons and hospitals they had been in. For Minor specifically, he was able to pay a fellow inmate to be his servant and even buy books from sellers outside of the asylum, according to The Los Angeles Times. All That's Interesting reports that Minor found the advertisement that the London Philological Society was looking for volunteers in a book and took the opportunity into his own hands from there. William Minor's history of writing detailed medical records came in handy William Minor was an army doctor, and not only that but he was trained at the prestigious school of Yale, graduating in 1863. Rather than relying on scribes or other forms of recording or simply memorizing his experiences, he wrote everything down himself and took meticulous notes. Many of his reports are even available to read to this day. Yale Medicine Magazine explains he wrote papers on everything from worms that could rebuild themselves to the minute details of diseases he found in doing autopsies. This knack for accuracy and writing gave him an advantage when it came to helping create the dictionary verbiage. Being stuck in a mental hospital and having a very revered background, Minor was a perfect candidate for providing definitions and etymologies. He would spend days sifting through the pages of books then "mailing the editors vast numbers of quotations demonstrating the words' meanings and early appearances in English literature." What started as a project to keep him busy turned Minor into a respected contributor to members of the Philological Society. The first dictionary included 400,000 definitions and was 15,490 pages long What was originally meant to be a decade-long project ended up taking far longer, and in actuality, the end date never really came about since the dictionary is still updated to this day. The first edition was considered to be just one "fascicle," and it was printed in 1844. Over the years, more installation were created, and the last volume was finally released in 1928. Jenkins Law Library explains that updated versions, corrections, and revisions were continually created over time, with another "supplement" of it appearing in 1933. Not only was the length of time predicted utterly wrong, but the actual size of the dictionary was also inaccurately assumed. BBC says that the plan was a book of 6,000-plus pages, but at the time of print in 1928, the text was a shocking 15,490 pages long. This was all possible thanks to the help of William Minor and other notable helpers, says the Oxford English Dictionary, including Philological Society member Frederick James Furnivall, historian Edith Thompson, author J.R.R. Tolkien, and countless other volunteers across the globe who answered the call for contributions to the esteemed dictionary. James Murray came to visit William Minor, having no idea who he really was After William Minor's dedication to the dictionary project, editor James Murray began to grow fond of the astute volunteer. Murray assumed Minor was a high-ranking individual working at Broadmoor — he had no idea he was actually a patient. Murray arranged to visit Minor, learning from a librarian that he wasn't quite the man he assumed. The New York Times writes, "On a visit to England, the librarian of Harvard College thanked Murray for being so kind to ”our poor Dr. Minor,” which confused Murray. Still, after finding out the truth and officially meeting him, Murray's respect grew for Minor. Despite their lives being so starkly different, Murray no doubt was thankful for the two decades Minor spent sending in his slips of paper he researched and wrote for the dictionary. This appreciation for Minor was so deep that Murray even became one of the biggest proponents for petitioning against Minor's sentence and demanding to have him released. Several years later, this eventually happened. William Minor had a tragic end to his life, but his contributions live on Sadly, William Minor's condition only worsened as years went on. His awful hallucinations, delusions, and nightmares continued to get darker. After suffering through a particularly horrific bout of thoughts having to do with assault — which he never acted on — Minor resorted to castrating himself (via Owlcation). Following this, in 1910, Minor was finally removed from Broadmoor thanks to James Murray's advocacy and a pardon from Winston Churchill. Minor was brought back to America, where he received more medical attention and his ultimate diagnoses of schizophrenia. There are conflicting stories, but it is said that Minor eventually died in the early 1920s, either at an institution specifically catered to elderly patients dealing with mental illness or in his own home. But even after his death, the work he did for the Oxford English Dictionary, and even the Webster Dictionary, helped lay the foundation for where both books are today. William Minor's contributions to the Oxford English Dictionary were unprecedented In 1899, James Murray commended William Minor on his countless contributions, saying Minor had gathered roughly 12,000 quotes for the project in just two years, all hand-written and sent in by mail to Murray and his team. Since the dictionary spanned so many decades, Minor chose to specifically focus on 16th and 17th century quotations for his work, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. It was said that without his help, 400 years worth of entries would be absent. While Oxford was his big break in the world of word compilation, The Nation explains that definitions weren't something he helped with — but rather quotations. This means he wasn't responsible for the exact meaning of the words but instead helped with the context and relevancy of them. Minor's defining skills came in handy prior to the OED, when he helped with another major project, which you now may know today as the Webster Dictionary. The Nation writes that this came before his Oxford volunteering days, but because of the major mistakes and errors he made for Webster, it is not talked about or celebrated nearly as much as his contributions later in life. Where the Oxford English Dictionary stands now What started as an immense large-scale project has only grown bigger. And now, rather than simply materializing in the form of a massive textbook, there is an online version. The web edition sees updates nearly every 90 days, says the BBC, and words that are more commonly found in the modern-day English vocabulary can be found. For example, in 2020, the words "adulting" and "follically challenged" were added. This is much to the assumed dismay of the 1928 editors of the OED that once told The New York Times in reference to more laid-back vernacular, "No doubt many of these might be described as slang, but they have a way of rising out of this character and taking their place in serious discourse and writing." The print edition on the other hand gets updates in much longer intervals. While a rumor was started that the print edition was going to be axed, the spokesperson for Oxford Press denied the claims and said that the third edition was actually in the works back in 2010, and it was a little under a third of the way being done. This new edition has yet to be released (there has only been two before it to give you an idea of the efforts it takes to revise), with the reasoning behind the lengthy process being that the entire book is being fully revisited — the first time since James Murray, William Minor, and others ran the show, according to OED.


--- [Chief Editors of the OED - Oxford English Dictionary] ---
In this section we give brief biographies of the Chief Editors of the Oxford English Dictionary. James Murray (1837-1915) Principal Editor of the Oxford English Dictionary, James Augustus Henry Murray was born the son of a tailor in Denholm, Scotland. Educated locally until the age of 14, Murray showed an aptitude for language from a very early age, eventually learning around 25 different languages. Upon leaving school, he took on temporary work before becoming Junior Assistant Master at a grammar school in Hawick at the age of 17, and three years later the Headmaster of Hawick Academy. As well as continuing his interests in language, he also taught himself all manner of scientific studies including botany, geology, and astronomy, and was a founder of the Hawick Archaeological Society from the age of 19. Murray married Maggie Scott in 1862 and they had a daughter soon after, but sadly both mother and daughter died within the next two years. Murray and his wife had moved to London for better air, where he took a job as a bank clerk before returning to schoolmaster duties with a post at Mill Hill School in 1870. At this point in time, he was now married to Ada Ruthven, with whom he went on to have eleven children. Once in London, Murray revived his interest in philology and language and became a member of the Philological Society, which issued his book The Dialects of the Southern Counties of Scotland in 1873, the same year he completed a London degree. He was awarded an honorary degree from Edinburgh in 1874, the first of nine over the coming years including a D.Litt. from Oxford in 1914. In 1878, Murray was made President of the Philological Society and talks were in place with Oxford University Press as to him editing the Society’s New English Dictionary. Despite some initial disagreements between Murray and the Press over editorial guidelines, Murray agreed to begin formal work on the project in 1879, first alongside his teaching duties at his home in Mill Hill and later (from 1885) full-time from his new home in Oxford. At both locations he worked in an iron shed called his ‘Scriptorium’ with a small team of assistants. The first fascicle for A-ant was issued in 1884. Murray’s thirty years in Oxford were almost entirely devoted to work on the Dictionary and his contribution to the project is astounding. He set the standards and original model for the work and personally edited half of the First Edition. He was rewarded for his efforts with a knighthood in 1908. He did not live to see the First Edition completed, succumbing to pleurisy in 1915, but his amazing achievements gave future generations of editors a solid foundation on which they have been building ever since. You may also be interested in James Murray’s entry in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. Henry Bradley (1845-1923) Second Editor of the Oxford English Dictionary, Henry Bradley was born in Manchester but grew up in Chesterfield, attending grammar school there until the age of 14. In 1863, his family moved to Sheffield and he began work as a clerk to a cutlery firm. He had a passionate interest in languages and mastered several European and classical tongues. Bradley married Eleanor Hides in 1872, with whom he had five children, and they moved to London in 1884. Within a couple of months he reviewed the first part of the Oxford English Dictionary for The Academy and gained himself a reputation for philological aptitude. James Murray, OED Editor, began to correspond with Bradley on matters of lexicography and by 1886 Oxford University Press insisted that Bradley be brought in to help with the letter B. He was promoted to Co-Editor in 1887, operating from a workroom in the British Museum until 1896 when he moved to Oxford, working and living onsite at Oxford University Press. Although devoted to the Dictionary, Bradley continued to write notable reviews and articles, as well as a number of important publications including a revised edition of Francis Stratmann’s Middle English Dictionary for Oxford University Press in 1891, and The Making of English, a popular history of the language in 1904. He was President of the Philological Society for a time and also co-founded the Society for Pure English in 1919, as well as contributing to work on British place-names. He was made a Fellow of both Magdalen College and the British Academy. In 1901, new Dictionary rooms were found in the centre of Oxford where Bradley continued his work, with overall responsibility for the letters E-G, L-M, S-Sh (a section which included the longest entry ‘set’), St, and W. In 1891, Bradley’s work was recognised with an honorary MA from Oxford, followed by a D.Litt. in 1914. He became Senior Editor upon Murray’s death in 1915 and continued to work on the Dictionary until his own sudden death in 1923. You may also be interested in Henry Bradley’s entry in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. William Craigie (1867-1957) Third Editor of the Oxford English Dictionary and Co-Editor of the 1933 Supplement, William Alexander Craigie was born the son of a gardener in Dundee, Scotland. He graduated in Classics and Philosophy from St Andrews University in 1888 and later attended Balliol College, Oxford, but an interest in Scots language from an early age led him to also study several European languages during this time, especially Icelandic. Craigie spent the winter of 1892-93 in Copenhagen, immersing himself in Norse philology, but returned to St Andrews in 1893 to take up a teaching position as Assistant to the Professor of Latin. In 1897, the same year he married his wife, Jessie Hutchen, Craigie received an invitation to work on the Oxford English Dictionary from Oxford University Press, to which he agreed (despite the initial reluctance of Chief Editor James Murray who knew nothing of the appointment). In 1901, when new Dictionary rooms were found in the centre of Oxford, Craigie was promoted to Co-Editor alongside Murray and Bradley. Outside of his Dictionary work, Craigie kept up his other interests. In 1904 he was appointed Taylorian lecturer in the Scandinavian languages at Oxford, in 1916 he became Rawlinson and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon, and in 1925 he moved to Chicago to become Professor of English. His reason for the Chicago move was to edit a Dictionary of American English, which he contributed to until its completion in 1944, although he had returned to England in 1936. He devoted much of this time to his Dictionary of the Older Scottish Tongue, which he worked on until 1955 before handing over to a successor. His other projects included significant works on Scandinavian, English, and Scottish philology and literature. Craigie worked on the Dictionary for over thirty-five years. Following the deaths of Murray and Bradley, he saw through the completion of the First Edition alongside Charles Onions, with responsibility for the letters N, Q, R, Si-Sq, U, V and Wo-Wy. This earned him a knighthood in 1928, to add to his Icelandic knighthood of 1925. In addition, he was awarded many honorary degrees as well as an Honorary Fellowship of Oriel College in 1928 and a Fellowship of the British Academy in 1931. Alongside Charles Onions, he compiled the one-volume Supplement to the OED issued in 1933. He died at home in Watlington, Oxfordshire, in 1957. You may also be interested in William Craigie’s entry in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. Charles Onions (1873-1965) Fourth Editor of the Oxford English Dictionary and Co-Editor of the 1933 Supplement, Charles Talbot Onions was born in Edgbaston, Birmingham, the son of a designer and embosser in metal. He showed an early interest in grammar, aided by a Headmaster who obtained fascicles of the New English Dictionary as they appeared. Onions obtained a BA in 1892 and an MA in 1895, both from Mason College, Birmingham. A Professor of English at the college introduced Onions to James Murray, OED Editor, and in September of 1895 Murray invited Onions to join his Dictionary staff. Onions accepted and moved to Oxford where he spent the rest of his life. In the following years he compiled An Advanced English Syntax (1904), his Shakespeare Glossary (1911), and married his wife Angela Blythman in 1907, with whom he had ten children. From 1906-1913, Onions worked on the Dictionary under Henry Bradley and William Craigie, preparing portions of M, N, R and S. In 1914, he was promoted to Co-Editor and was responsible in that capacity for the sections Su-Sz, Wh-Working, and X,Y,Z. This resulted in Onions contributing the final entry to the Dictionary – zyxt – which was later made into the name of a soap. Alongside William Craigie, he compiled the one-volume Supplement to the OED issued in 1933 and was even able to advise on the later Supplement, which was started in 1957. His Dictionary work did not stop there, however. In 1922, Oxford University Press commissioned Onions to revise and complete William Little’s work on the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, which was first published in 1933 and updated by Onions until 1959. Also in 1922 he revised the Press’s Anglo-Saxon Reader, originally compiled by Henry Sweet. His final great accomplishment was the Oxford Dictionary of English Etymology, published in 1966, which went to press just before he died. Aside from lexicography, Onions was appointed University lecturer in English in 1920 and was Reader in English Philology from 1927-1949. He was a Fellow of both Magdalen College and the British Academy, from 1923 and 1938 respectively, and Presidents of both the Philological Society and the Early English Text Society. He was awarded three honorary degrees on the completion of the OED in 1928 and made a CBE in 1934. You may also be interested in the entry for C.T. Onions in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. Robert Burchfield (1923-2004) Editor of the four-volume Supplement to the OED, Robert William Burchfield was born in Wanganui, New Zealand. He graduated from Victoria University College, Wellington, with a BA and MA in English, whilst also serving in World War Two and working as a junior lecturer. In 1949 he married his wife Ethel Yates, with whom he had three children, and was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship, moving to Oxford where he remained for the rest of his life. Burchfield’s interest in philology flourished in Oxford and he gained a second BA and MA in English in 1951 and 1955 respectively, studying under both C. S. Lewis and J. R. R. Tolkien. He held various lecturing posts in Oxford colleges, including Magdalen and St Peter’s, where he was made a Fellow in 1963. Whilst at Magdalen College, Burchfield came to know Charles Onions, former Editor of the Oxford English Dictionary, aiding him in the compilation of his Oxford Dictionary of English Etymology (1966). Onions recommended Burchfield to Oxford University Press as Editor of the new Supplement to the OED and he was appointed in 1957, a task that was to take him the next 29 years. His many valuable contributions to the Dictionary’s expansion include re-establishing the reading programme originally set up by the Dictionary founders, expanding its scope to include more international varieties of English, and allowing for increased coverage of scientific, technical, and slang words, including the previously outlawed four-letter words. Initially intended as a one-volume Supplement, it developed into a four-volume work published between 1972 and 1986 to great acclaim. In 1976, Burchfield divorced and married Elizabeth Knight, publicity officer at Oxford University Press. He was awarded a CBE in 1975 and honorary degrees from Liverpool and Victoria in 1978 and 1983 respectively. Aside from Dictionary work, he continued to produce many academic articles and reviews and lectured extensively. His books include The Spoken Word (1981), The English Language (1985), and the New Zealand Pocket Oxford Dictionary (1986). His final achievement was a revision of Henry Fowler’s Modern English Usage, published in 1996 during the onset of Parkinson’s disease. He died in 2004. You may also be interested in Robert Burchfield’s entry in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. John Simpson (b.1953) Co-Editor of the Second Edition and Chief Editor of the Third Edition of the OED, John Simpson was born and educated in Cheltenham. He graduated from the University of York with a BA in English Literature in 1975 and from the University of Reading with an MA in Medieval Studies in 1976. Simpson joined the staff of the OED in the summer of 1976, appointed by Robert Burchfield as an Editorial Assistant on the Supplement. The first word he worked on was ‘queen’. Although the fourth and final part of the Supplement did not appear until 1986, plans were already underway for the future of the OED, which was to see the First Edition and Supplements digitized and integrated into a Second Edition. In 1985, Simpson was made Co-Editor of this Second Edition, alongside Edmund Weiner. The project culminated in a twenty-volume work, published in 1989, a monumental effort in the early days of computers, followed by a CD-ROM edition in 1992. In 1993, Simpson became Chief Editor of the OED, a role he retained until his retirement in 2013. With Weiner as his Deputy, they instigated the first complete revision of the Dictionary text, with every word scheduled for review, and saw the number of staff working on the Third Edition grow from 25 to more than 70. Under Simpson’s editorship, over 60,000 new words and meanings were added to the Dictionary. Always at the forefront of innovation, he also oversaw the launch of the OED Onlinein 2000, one of the world’s first major online reference resources. The continued success of the OED is testament to Simpson’s vision of the Dictionary as an ongoing research project and a dynamic document of social history. A world expert on proverbs and slang, Simpson also edited the Concise Oxford Dictionary of Proverbs (1982) and co-edited the Oxford Dictionary of Modern Slang (1992). His introductions to various historical dictionaries were published by the Bodleian Library and he currently co-edits the James Joyce Online Notes website. His memoir The Word Detective, which tells the story of his lexicographical career, was published in 2016, and more recently he has published Managing Poverty: Cheltenham Settlement Examinations and Removal Orders 1831-52 (2020). He is a member of the Philological Society (which first proposed the idea for the OED) and an Emeritus Fellow of Kellogg College, Oxford. He was awarded two honorary degrees from the Australian National University and the University of Leicester in 1999 and 2015 respectively, and was made an OBE in 2014. Edmund Weiner (b.1950) Co-Editor of the Second Edition and Deputy Chief Editor of the Third Edition of the OED, Edmund Weiner was born in Oxford, where he has lived most of his life. He graduated in English from Oxford University in 1971 and subsequently taught Old English, Middle English, and English linguistic history at Christ Church, Oxford. The works of fellow Oxonians J. R. R. Tolkien and C. S. Lewis were powerful early influences. Weiner joined the staff of the OED in 1977, initially working on the Supplement under Robert Burchfield. By 1983 he was becoming increasingly involved in OUP’s plans for the future of the OED, making up part of the OED computerization team. A year later he moved fully to the New OED project, leaving the offices of the Supplement to devote himself to the computerization project. It was his initial analysis of the structure of the Dictionary text which enabled the OED to be first handled and searched by computer. In 1985 he was made Co-Editor of the Second Edition, alongside John Simpson, which saw the First Edition and Supplements digitized and integrated into a new twenty-volume text, published in 1989. He was also closely involved in the preparation of the popular 1992 CD-ROM edition. In 1993, Weiner was made Deputy Chief Editor of the OED, with particular responsibility for etymological and grammatical aspects of the Dictionary and the finalization of entries for publication. He was instrumental in the launch of the OED Onlinein 2000 and oversees quarterly updates to the online edition to this day, with over 45 years of service to the Dictionary. Outside OED work, Weiner has published several works on English grammar and usage, including The Oxford Guide to English Usage (1983), and The Oxford Dictionary of English Grammar with Sylvia Chalker (1994). He has also worked on other Oxford dictionaries, including the fourth edition of the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (1993). His lifelong interest in Tolkien saw him co-author, alongside Peter Gilliver and Jeremy Marshall, The Ring of Words:Tolkien and the Oxford English Dictionary (2006). He is a Fellow of Kellogg College, Oxford. Michael Proffitt (b.1965) Chief Editor of the Third Edition of the OED, Michael Proffitt was born and educated in Edinburgh, before graduating in English Language and Literature from Oxford University in 1988. Moving to London, he worked for a financial services company and for a theatre group before he spotted a newspaper advert for a job on the OED. Proffitt returned to Oxford to join the OED project in 1989, at the completion of the Second Edition. By now the Dictionary’s focus was comprehensive revision and electronic access. He began work in the new words team, which he went on to run for a decade, also editing the third volume in the OED Additions Supplements. He introduced systems to enhance the Dictionary’s monitoring and coverage of neologisms and of English worldwide, and he extended the work of the new words team to support a range of Oxford dictionaries. From 2003 he worked on a project that developed new editorial software for the OED, before in 2005 becoming Project Director, managing the dictionary’s 90-strong editorial team. In that role he established new editorial policies and practices as well as new priorities for the Dictionary’s online publication. On John Simpson’s retirement in 2013, he took over as the OED’s Chief Editor.


--- [Sir James Murray | Oxford English Dictionary, lexicography, etymology ...] ---
Sir James Murray Sir James Murray (born February 7, 1837, Denholm, Roxburghshire [now Scottish Borders], Scotland—died July 26, 1915, Oxford, Oxfordshire, England) was a Scottish lexicographer and the first editor (from 1879) of A New English Dictionary on Historical Principles, now known as The Oxford English Dictionary. He was knighted in 1908. (Read H.L. Mencken’s 1926 Britannica essay on American English.) Murray was a grammar-school teacher from 1855 to 1885, during which time he also wrote a famous article on the English language for Encyclopædia Britannica (1878) and served as president of the Philological Society (1878–80, 1882–84). He undertook the editing of a vast dictionary that was intended as an inventory of words used in English from the mid-12th century and, in some instances, from earlier dates. Construction of the dictionary was to be grounded on strict historical and descriptive principles, and each definition was to be accompanied by an example, including date, of usage. With the assistance of countless volunteers, who sent in research and thousands of quotations to assist in crafting the word entries, the first section, A–Ant, appeared in 1884, printed at the Clarendon Press, Oxford. From 1885 until his death, Murray lived at Oxford, working with a staggering volume of materials and completing about half of the dictionary, sections A–D, H–K, O, P, and T. It was his organization that made completion of the great undertaking possible. - In full: - Sir James Augustus Henry Murray - Born: - February 7, 1837, Denholm, Roxburghshire [now Scottish Borders], Scotland The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary (1998) by Simon Winchester recounts Murray’s correspondence with one of his more prolific volunteers contributing to the publication, a learned expatriate veteran of the American Civil War named Dr. W.C. Minor, an inmate of the Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum in Berkshire, England.


--- [Scurvy: A tale of the sailors' curse and a cure that got lost] ---
EXPLORING the Pacific between 1768 and 1771, Captain James Cook measured the transit of Venus and mapped New Zealand’s coastline. But the achievement that most excited the Royal Society was the avoidance of scurvy on the Endeavour, a feat Cook attributed to the malt wort in the diet. For the next several decades, malt was carried on all British ships. Yet scurvy plagued Cook’s next voyage, wreaking havoc despite similar sailing conditions and precautions (including plenty of malt). His experiences are emblematic of scurvy, a malady that was still plaguing sailors well into the 20th century. As Jonathan Lamb shows in Scurvy, the disease was a major concern of scientists and the admiralty, yet persistently confounded both because its incidence was unpredictable and it came in countless guises. It could induce black gums, creaky bones, sensory overexcitement and derangement. One doctor aptly dubbed it “an Iliad of diseases”. With such confusion, the cause of scurvy was vigorously debated and attributed to everything from tainted fruit to lack of oxygen. More broadly, says Lamb, opinion “divided over a diet that was either deficient or defective: either there was something lacking in what was eaten, or something present in it that was inimical to health”. It took the isolation of vitamin C in the 1930s to fully establish malnutrition as the problem. “Scurvy had countless guises, inducing black gums, creaky bones and derangement“ Advertisement Even more striking than the time it took to nail the cause is the utter directionlessness that preceded it. Lamb is careful to show that the conquest of scurvy does not conform to the standard story of scientific progress. The benefits of citrus for preventing and curing scurvy were discovered and discovered again, only to be lost in the interim. There are myriad reasons for this elusiveness. Beyond the sheer capriciousness of scurvy, there’s the inconsistency of citrus as a source of vitamin C. For example, the popularity of citrus for treating scurvy in the mid-19th century led to the use of West Indian limes, which were far cheaper than Mediterranean lemons but also happened to contain far less vitamin C. Because the limes proved ineffective, all citrus was discredited and the medical establishment swayed back in the direction of attributing scurvy to contamination. Lamb admirably follows this circuitous path, scrupulously avoiding oversimplification. While he can get lost in the details, and his book would be better served by more rigorous organisation of his research, Scurvy serves as a worthy antidote to the sensationalism common in popular science writing. Indeed, it is the opposite of the boilerplate “vitamin that changed the world” narrative. Instead, medical science is shown in the context of contemporary prejudices and politics. Deeply informed by the history and literature of seafaring, Lamb’s book provides valuable insights into the workings of science that can even guide our expectations about research today. Scurvy: The disease of discovery Princeton University Press This article appeared in print under the headline “The sailors’ curse” Topics:
