=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kim Fields - Wikipedia]
Kim Fields Morgan (née Fields; born May 12, 1969) is an American actress and director. She first gained fame as a child actress on the television series Good Times (1978-1979), and rose to greater prominence for her role as Dorothy "Tootie" Ramsey on the NBC sitcom Diff'rent Strokes (1979-1981), as well as its spin-off The Facts of Life ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kim_Fields

[Kim Fields Pregnant With Second Baby Boy Named Quincy Xavier]
Jul 25, 2013 · Kim Fields is pregnant with her second child and she's already decided on a name! The Facts of Life star, 44, announced she and husband Christopher Morgan are expecting their second son during an ...
URL: https://www.usmagazine.com/celebrity-moms/news/kim-fields-pregnant-with-second-baby-boy-named-quincy-xavier-2013257/

[Kim Fields pregnant with second son, Quincy Xavier]
Jul 26, 2013 · Kim Fields is expecting her second child, and the unborn baby already has a name. The 44-year-old "Facts of Life" alumna revealed her pregnancy news on a pre-taped episode of "The Real" this week.
URL: https://www.nydailynews.com/2013/07/26/kim-fields-pregnant-with-second-son-quincy-xavier/

[Kim Fields reveals she's pregnant - USA TODAY]
Jul 26, 2013 · Facts of Life star Kim Fields, 44, is expecting her second baby. The actress who played Tootie in the '80s sitcom revealed the news — and her bump! — while filming an episode of The Real ...
URL: https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/people/2013/07/26/kim-fields-reveals-shes-pregnant/2588941/

[16 Facts About Kim Fields - FactSnippet]
In July 2013, Kim Fields announced on the talk show The Real that she and her husband were expecting another son; on December 3,2013, they welcomed Quincy Xavier Morgan in Atlanta, Georgia. 16 Facts About Kim Fields | FactSnippet.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-kim-fields.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kim Fields - Wikipedia] ---
Kim Fields Morgan (née Fields; born May 12, 1969) is an American actress and director. She first gained fame as a child actress on the television series Good Times (1978–1979), and rose to greater prominence for her role as Dorothy "Tootie" Ramsey on the NBC sitcom Diff'rent Strokes (1979–1981), as well as its spin-off The Facts of Life (1979–1988).
Fields made her transition into mature roles as Regine Hunter on the Fox sitcom Living Single (1993–1998). Afterwards, she began work as a director on the Nickelodeon sitcom Kenan & Kel, as well as Tyler Perry's House of Payne. She currently stars in the Netflix original series The Upshaws (2021–2026).


--- [Kim Fields Pregnant With Second Baby Boy Named Quincy Xavier] ---
Kim Fields is pregnant with her second child and she's already decided on a name! The Facts of Life star, 44, announced she and husband Christopher Morgan are expecting their second son during an upcoming episode of The Real, taped earlier this week. "This is Quincy Xavier," Fields said, holding her baby bump. "He's a boy, yes." The couple, who married in July 2007, are already parents to son Sebastian, 6. "We're very, very blessed," Fields added. "It was planned. We actually had been trying for a couple of years." The actress also revealed that she suffered two miscarriages. When she learned she was pregnant with her second child, the news came as a big surprise. "Funny enough, for a minute I thought I was getting pre-menopausal because certain things were starting to be irregular and then other symptoms started — my memory and I was clumsier than normal which I couldn't even believe was possible," she explained. "Then our son got sick with a stomach virus and I caught it. Chris said, 'No, babe, you're a little sicker than Sebastian. You need to go and get that checked out' and I said, 'Okay.' So I went and they tested me and said, 'Oh honey, you're not dehydrated. You're two months pregnant.'"


--- [Kim Fields pregnant with second son, Quincy Xavier] ---
Kim Fields is expecting her second child, and the unborn baby already has a name. The 44-year-old “Facts of Life” alumna revealed her pregnancy news on a pre-taped episode of “The Real” this week. “This is Quincy Xavier,” Fields said as she touched her growing bump. “He’s a boy, yes.” This will be the second son for Fields and her husband, Christopher Morgan, who married in July 2007. “We’re very, very blessed,” Fields added. “It was planned. We actually had been trying for a couple of years.” The actress also revealed on the talk show that she had suffered two miscarriages while the couple were trying to get pregnant with baby No. 2. “Funny enough, for a minute I thought I was getting pre-menopausal because certain things were starting to be irregular and then other symptoms started — my memory, and I was clumsier than normal which, I couldn’t even believe was possible,” she told the audience. “Then our son got sick with a stomach virus, and I caught it. Chris said, ‘No, babe, you’re a little sicker than Sebastian. You need to go and get that checked out,’ and I said, ‘Okay.’ So I went, and they tested me and said, ‘Oh honey, you’re not dehydrated. You’re two months pregnant.'”


--- [Kim Fields reveals she's pregnant - USA TODAY] ---
Kim Fields reveals she's pregnant Facts of Life star Kim Fields, 44, is expecting her second baby. The actress who played Tootie in the '80s sitcom revealed the news — and her bump! — while filming an episode of The Realslated to air next week. "Ta da!" she said, standing up for all to see. Fields is expecting her second son with her husband of more than five years, Christopher Morgan. They have one son, Sebastian, 6. "We've actually been trying for a couple years," Fields said, explaining she thought she was pre-menopausal or dehydrated at first. "We had gotten pregnant twice and [miscarried]. ... Chris and I were very blessed to really have one another, to have our family and friends and our God to really get us through that." They are so ready for the new arrival that Fields says they've got a name all picked out: "This is Quincy Xavier!"


--- [16 Facts About Kim Fields - FactSnippet] ---
Kim Fields Morgan is an American actress and director. 16 Facts About Kim Fields Kim Fields first gained fame as a child actress on the television series Good Times, and rose to greater prominence for her role as Dorothy "Tootie" Ramsey on the NBC sitcom Diff'rent Strokes, as well as its spin-off The Facts of Life. Kim Fields later appeared on two episodes of Good Times as a friend of Penny Gordon Woods, played by Janet Jackson. Kim Fields played the role of Dorothy "Tootie" Ramsey on the NBC sitcom The Facts of Life from 1979 to 1988. Kim Fields had a starring role in the hit Fox sitcom Living Single as Regina "Regine" Hunter from 1993 to 1998. Kim Fields has worked as a director on the sitcoms Tyler Perry's Meet the Browns, Tyler Perry's House of Payne and BET's Let's Stay Together. Kim Fields guest-starred on television shows such as UPN's One on One, The Golden Palace, and Martin. On February 1,2007, Kim Fields was reunited with her co-star Lisa Whelchel on WFAA-TV's Good Morning Texas. Kim Fields was in Dallas to promote her appearance in the production Issues: We've All Got 'Em when Whelchel was introduced as a surprise guest. Kim Fields has worked with her husband Christopher Morgan on projects. On March 8,2016, Kim Fields was announced as one of the celebrities who will compete on season 22 of Dancing with the Stars. In 2017, Kim Fields played the role of Theresa Newman in the Christian film A Question of Faith, which featured Kim Fields' first co-starring appearance in a feature film and premiered in theaters on September 29,2017. Since May 2021, Kim Fields has starred on Netflix's The Upshaws. Kim Fields was married to film producer Johnathon Franklin Freeman from 1995 to 2001. Kim Fields gave birth to her first child, Sebastian Alexander Morgan, by then-boyfriend Broadway actor Christopher Morgan, on May 4,2007. In July 2013, Kim Fields announced on the talk show The Real that she and her husband were expecting another son; on December 3,2013, they welcomed Quincy Xavier Morgan in Atlanta, Georgia.
