=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[English Ladies Football Association - Wikipedia]
The first meeting of the ELFA was held several weeks after the ban and Leonard Bridgett, the manager and coach of Stoke Ladies, was its first president. [2][4] Bridgett helped to organise the first and only English Ladies Football Association Challenge Cup competition in the spring of 1922. 24 teams entered the competition and the winners were ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_Ladies_Football_Association

[Kicking Down Barriers - The story of women's football in England - The FA]
The following year saw the first and only ELFA Challenge Cup competition. Stoke Ladies lifted the trophy, beating Doncaster and Bentley Ladies 3-1 in the June 1922 final.
URL: https://www.thefa.com/womens-girls-football/heritage/kicking-down-barriers

[Brief History of Women's Football - Leicestershire Football Archive]
The following year saw the first and only ELFA Challenge Cup competition. Stoke Ladies lifted the trophy, beating Doncaster and Bentley Ladies 3-1 in the June 1922 final.
URL: https://leicestershirefootballarchive.com/womens-football-in-leicestershire/

[Malcolm Bailey's Football Blog: THE ELFA AND JEANNIE]
The first meeting of the ELFA was held several weeks after the ban and Leonard Bridgett, the manager and coach of Stoke Ladies, was its first president. Bridgett helped to organise the first and only English Ladies Football Association Challenge Cup competition in the spring of 1922. 24 teams entered the competition and the winners were Stoke ...
URL: https://baileyfootballblog.blogspot.com/2022/09/the-elfa-and-jeannie.html

[1922–23 FA Cup - Wikipedia]
Bolton Wanderers won the competition, beating West Ham United 2–0 in the first final to be held at Wembley Stadium, London.Missing: ELFA | Show results with:ELFA
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1922%E2%80%9323_FA_Cup


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [English Ladies Football Association - Wikipedia] ---
The English Ladies' Football Association (ELFA) was formed in 1921 and active until 1922. It was arguably a direct response to the Football Association (FA)’s ban on women's football teams. The first meeting of the ELFA was held several weeks after the ban and Leonard Bridgett, the manager and coach of Stoke Ladies, was its first president. Bridgett helped to organise the first and only English Ladies Football Association Challenge Cup competition in the spring of 1922. 24 teams entered the competition and the winners were Stoke Ladies, who beat Doncaster and Bentley Ladies 3–1 on 24 June 1922.
The ELFA folded in over a year, and women continued to play in local parks and even dog-tracks, with no money or infrastructural support from the Football Association, no resources, coaches or pitches. These restrictions stayed in place for fifty years and were only lifted in 1971.


--- [Kicking Down Barriers - The story of women's football in England - The FA] ---
EARLY YEARS Although the game of football has been played for centuries – for example, Shakespeare mentions it in two of his plays: The Comedy of Errors (1594) and King Lear (1608) – you might think that women have only been playing over the last generation or so. In fact, their participation dates back much further than you might imagine. It is claimed that Mary Queen of Scots herself owned the oldest football in existence. Sir Philip Sidney’s poem A Dialogue Between Two Shepherds, written in 1580, refers to women playing: ‘A tyme there is for all, my mother often sayes, When she, with skirts tuckt very hy, with girles at football playes.’ Football remained a popular pastime, but it took another 300 years for the game to be codified into a standard set of rules by the newly formed Football Association in 1863. These rules were partly intended to stop on-pitch violence and make it more acceptable for women to play. The first recorded women’s football match was on 7 May 1881, when a supposed ‘Scotland’ women’s team played ‘England’ at Easter Road, Edinburgh. In actual fact the birthplace and therefore nationalities of the players has been called into question and it’s believed at least some of the players were from the theatre community ‘acting’ out these team roles. The two teams played several matches, but two – in Glasgow and Manchester – were abandoned due to pitch invasions. In Glasgow the players had to escape in a horse-drawn bus! In the first match – which wasn’t abandoned – Lily St Clair netted the first goal in front of a crowd of about 2,000 and in doing so became the first recorded female goal scorer in the history of the game. The team representing Scotland were 2-0 winners. Image courtesy of the National Football Museum As the 1890s unfolded, so women’s club football gained momentum. Local clubs competed against each other in matches and competitions. Madam Kenney’s Famous Edinburgh Team beat Grimsby Town Ladies 1-0 on 23 April 1887 at the Thornes football field in Wakefield. Some teams were formed by women working in factories. On 2 February 1899, a six-a-side game saw Greener’s Violets win by 8-2 over Greener’s Cutters. Both teams worked at the same glassworks in Sunderland. There are also records of clubs at this time in Grimsby and Preston. In London, the British Ladies’ Football Club (BLFC) was formed in 1895 by Alfred Hewitt Smith, with Nettie J. Honeyball (thought to be a pseudonym) as captain. President of the BLFC was Lady Florence Dixie, a renowned Scottish writer, adventurer, war correspondent and feminist. Dixie insisted players wore practical clothes, including bloomers, shinpads and proper boots, so they would be free to run around. The BLFC staged a North v. South of The Thames clash on 23 March 1895. 10,000+ paying spectators crammed into the Crouch End Athletic ground to watch the 60-minute match. The North won 7-1, but the profile and attendance of the game made a wider point. BLFC attracted attention to the growing women’s rights movement. Campaigns such as Votes for Women (1897) and the formation of the National Union of Women’s Suffrage Societies and in 1903, The Women’s Social and Political Union highlighted women’s growing calls for emancipation. The calls were getting ever louder. Ultimately, they were irresistible. Image courtesy of the National Football Museum THE GAME GROWS During World War One, women increasingly took on traditionally male jobs, particularly and typically working in factories. Sporting activity within these often dark and dirty factories was encouraged to benefit health and wellbeing, as well as to help aid morale and productivity. Football was a natural outlet for this and many factories developed their own teams. In 1917 the munitions factories gave birth to the Munitionettes’ Cup, with Blyth Spartans Munitionettes beating Bolckow, Vaughan & Co 5-0 in the final. By far the most famous and one of the most successful of the factory-based teams of the time was Dick, Kerr & Co. From 1917 right through to 1965 they played 800 games - winning 746! They also produced the country’s best-ever goal scorer, Lily Parr, who is believed to have scored around 900 goals during her 30-year career. During and after the War, Dick, Kerr Ladies toured the country playing charity games to raise money for injured servicemen. Arguably, they were the first ‘professional’ women’s side and players were paid 10 shillings (50p) to cover their expenses. Image courtesy of the National Football Museum By 1921 there were about 150 women’s football clubs. Matches were popular spectator events and some drew up to 45,000 fans. The future of the women’s game looked bright. Despite its growing popularity and the re-emergence of international matches after World War One, controversy was just around the corner. Many factories closed and women went back into domestic life or retrained in professions such as bus conductors and nurses. At the same time, some people questioned whether football was damaging women’s health. Dr Mary Scharlieb of Harley Street for example described it as the “most unsuitable game, too much for a women’s physical frame”. Image courtesy of the National Football Museum BANNED On 5 December 1921, the FA met at its headquarters in London and announced a ban on the women’s game from being played at the professional grounds and pitches of clubs affiliated to the FA, stating “the game of football is quite unsuitable for females and ought not to be encouraged.” The ban meant the women’s game was side-lined to being played in public parks for nearly 50 years. Despite this, women were determined to keep playing football and around 30 teams from across England met in Liverpool on 10 December 1921 to formalise the English Ladies Football Association (ELFA). This aimed “to popularise the game among girls and to assist charity". The following year saw the first and only ELFA Challenge Cup competition. Stoke Ladies lifted the trophy, beating Doncaster and Bentley Ladies 3-1 in the June 1922 final. Though stymied by a lack of decent-sized facilities, women’s football carried on throughout the ‘30s, ‘40s, ‘50s and most of the 1960s. Games were played at rugby venues and smaller grounds which couldn’t house many fans. Though the women continued to play, they became increasingly overshadowed by the men’s game. In 1947, Kent County Football Association suspended a referee because he was also working as manager of the Kent Ladies Football Club. It justified its decision saying that "women's football brings the game into disrepute". Image courtesy of the National Football Museum But clubs continued to start up, a notable example is Manchester Corinthians Ladies FC founded in 1949. Percy Ashley, a scout for Bolton Wanderers, founded the club so his daughter Doris, a talented footballer, could play in a team. The Corinthians played at Fog Lane Park in Didsbury, a suburb south of the city. Players often had to clean themselves in the local duck pond after matches as there was no running water in the changing rooms. The team were very successful, winning many domestic trophies within their first two years. As there were very few local women’s teams, Ashley set up a second team, The Nomads, in 1957 so they could play against the Corinthians in charity matches. The Corinthians went on to win an unofficial European club championship in Germany in 1957. The team was accompanied by Manchester City’s German goalkeeper, Bert Trautmann, who acted as their interpreter. More overseas trips followed, including to Portugal/Madeira, the Netherlands, South America and the Caribbean, and Morocco. The team won more than 50 trophies and raised £275,000 for charity. REVIVAL As society began to change during the 1960s, women started to campaign more for their social rights. On 1 November 1969, representatives of 44 clubs attended the first meeting of the Women’s Football Association (WFA) in London. Arthur Hobbs, a carpenter and amateur footballer, was the first Honorary Secretary of The WFA and Pat Dunn was its first Chair. In 1967, Hobbs had organised a women’s tournament in Deal, Kent, with the support of local miners from Betteshanger Colliery. The Deal Tournament, played on the Colliery’s playing fields, showcased and celebrated women’s football. It was a pre-cursor to the Women’s FA Cup, which would go on to be first played in 1971. In 1972, Hobbs stepped down as Honorary Secretary due to ill health. He was succeeded by Patricia Gregory, who had been instrumental in setting up the WFA. Gregory founded and played for White Ribbon, a team in London who participated in the Deal Tournament. She went on to have a long career in football administration, serving as a member of the UEFA Women’s Football Committee from 1980 – 1994. The FA were coming under increasing pressure to lift the ban on women's football. In December 1969, the FA's Executive Committee recommended that what they termed ‘ladies' football" should no longer be classified as unaffiliated. In the following month, at a meeting of the FA Council on 19 January 1970, the FA finally voted to rescind the controversial resolution of 1921 that had banned women's football for being "unsuitable". But it took a lot more deliberations, crucially including a meeting of the FA's Rules Revision Committee in August, to prepare the way for an amendment to be made to the relevant FA rule. This couldn't be made until the FA's next Annual General Meeting, which was held at the Great Western Royal Hotel in Paddington on 24 June 1971. Women's football could now be played on FA-affiliated grounds and registered referees could officiate at women's matches. In addition to official league matches, came the launch of a women’s club knock-out competition, later to become the Women’s FA Cup. In 1971 Southampton won the first final and they would go on to lift the trophy eight times in its first eleven years. In 1971, UEFA recommended that the women’s game should be governed by national associations – then numbering 32 – across Europe. The FA made their announcement on recognising The Women’s FA (WFA) on 29 February 1972. In November of the same year – 1972 – the first official WFA England team travelled to Scotland for an international match in which England came from behind to win 3-2 with goals from Sylvia Gore, Lynda Hale and Jeannie Allott. That 2-0 defeat between two unofficial sides some 91 years earlier had finally been avenged. The match itself came exactly 100 years after the first recognised men's international, also played between Scotland and England. At this time opportunities for women to represent England in international competitions were still scarce. Between 1972 and 1978, there were only 25 international matches played. Now the push was on to integrate women’s football into the fabric of our national sport. That push continued to be led by the WFA. In 1981 they opened their own administrative office although the sport continued to be largely run through the dedication of volunteers. The WFA grew the women’s game throughout the 1970s, ‘80s and early ‘90s. The FA however was beginning to take a keener interest and in May 1984 the WFA was affiliated with the same status as County FAs. This opened the doors to more central FA support, but much more still needed to be done. That same year, 1984, saw England lose to Sweden – 4-3 on penalties – in the two-legged final of the first UEFA competition for national representative women's teams. This was the predecessor to the Women’s EUROs. Image courtesy of the National Football Museum A DECADE OF FIRSTS The 1990s saw the first strategic plans to develop the women’s game in England, together with the first 20 Centres of Excellence for girls and also, in 1998, the first full-time England women’s coach, Hope Powell – later to be honoured with both an OBE and CBE. 1991 saw another key moment when the WFA launched a 24-club national league which the following year was expanded to three divisions of ten teams (Premier, Division 1 North and Division 1 South). Further fundamental change happened two years later, in 1993, as the WFA voted to pass over its activities to the FA. It no longer had the financial resources to develop the game it had nurtured. The FA established a Women’s Football Committee and with it the full-time post of Women’s Football Co-ordinator. The 1993-94 season also saw the WFA Cup brought under the control of the FA - 137 teams entered. A year later and the WFA’s national league and league cup were also managed by The FA. This saw the birth of the Women's Premier League (FAWPL). FIFA introduced the women’s World Cup competition in 1991 and as the women’s game started to grow globally, the decade culminated in the finals in the USA in 1999 that featured sold-out stadia and a 90,000 crowd at the final. The game was gaining media attention by the day and more importantly, more participants. By 2002 in England, it had become the top participation team sport for women and girls. This FA target was achieved three years ahead of target. In the same year, Lily Parr of Dick, Kerr Ladies became the first woman inducted into the National Football Museum Hall of Fame. This was in part the game acknowledging its roots, but also building its future foundations. These foundations were given a further boost in 2005 when England hosted the UEFA Women’s EURO. Records for crowd attendance and TV audiences were smashed. England beat Finland 2-1 in front of a then European record crowd of 29,092 at the City of Manchester Stadium. Crucially, the talent pool was getting deeper - there were now England teams at various age groups and the senior team – the Lionesses – were beginning to show their talents on the world stage. The 2000s ended with the senior team winning the Cyprus Cup which was their first international trophy and later in the same year, reaching the final of UEFA Women’s EURO 2009, albeit losing out to Germany who were the dominant force at the time. The WU19s however won their UEFA Championship in Belarus. The London 2012 Olympic Games gave women’s football in this country a further boost, when the Team GB Women reached the quarter-finals of their competition. Significantly, a 1-0 win over Brazil in Team GB’s third group match was played in front of 70,584 fans at Wembley Stadium. This contrasted markedly with the very first England women's international match played at Wembley only 23 years beforehand (England vs Sweden on 23 May 1989) which took place as a ‘warm up’ before a men's international kick off. As England’s international teams were getting ever stronger, club football re-formed itself and 2011 saw the inception of The FA Women’s Super League (WSL) which was initially an eight-team summer competition. This replaced the FA Women's Premier League National Division as the highest level of women's football in England and ran on this basis until 2017 when it finally grew into the two-division fully professional game we know today, taking its place alongside the traditional men’s professional season, with media interest, spectator levels and sponsorship income having established a solid commercial platform. The top three teams each season qualify for the UEFA Women’s Champions League. The WSL has increased the visibility of women’s club football across the world, attracting star players from overseas and broadcast partners in Australia, Canada, Dominican Republic, Mexico, Germany, Italy, Scandinavia, New Zealand and the US. Below the two professional divisions, the game’s pyramid – the Women’s National League – has continued to develop. It now means there are recognised pathways into the women’s professional game, with clubs themselves operating Academy structures. In 2024, the Barclays WSL and the second tier Barclays Women's Championship, migrated to become independent of the FA, with the introduction of Women's Professional Leagues Limited with the aim of spearheading a new era in the sport, dedicated to driving growth and maximising potential, placing players and fans at its core. NEW ERA The last 15 years have seen some major developments for both women and girls. In 2013, the FA, Sport England, the Premier League and the Football League Trust launched their first joint national participation programme for girls’ football. In 2014, England Women played their first match at the new Wembley Stadium, attracting a then record crowd of 45,619 for their match against Germany. The senior team was by now a serious contender on both European and world stages. They took bronze in the 2015 FIFA Women’s World Cup in Canada and reached the semi-finals of UEFA Women’s 2017 EURO and got to the same stage again in the FIFA Women’s World Cup two years later in France 2019. Their semi-final defeat to the USA attracted a record 11.7m viewers on BBC One. Earlier in the same year they won the SheBelieves Cup for the first time. This success saw ever-increasing crowds at England matches, with 77,786 fans at Wembley to see the senior team face Germany in November 2019. It is little wonder then that Barclays wanted to secure its place as the title partner of The FA WSL in what is believed to be the biggest-ever investment in UK women’s sport by a brand. Double participation, double the fanbase and consistent success on the world stage. Those were the three bold goals in The Gameplan for Growth, The FA’s first formal strategy for women’s and girls’ football in England, unveiled in March 2017. All three goals were scored – with more than one million girls (aged 5-15) and 1.9 million women (16+) playing the game in England by the end of the strategy. Numerous FA participation programmes brought girls to football at various age groups and the fan base continued to grow. Following the first three-year strategy, a new one – Inspiring Positive Change – was launched in October 2020. Among its eight goals, one stands out – to give every school-going girl the same access to football as boys, whether at school or in clubs. This was followed by Reaching Higher - a new women’s and girls’ game strategy for 2024-2028. A home win in Wembley for England at the UEFA Women’s EURO 2022 in front of a crowd of 87,192 has firmly established the women’s game in the national psyche. Media coverage and general interest in the game has never been higher. As well as huge success on the field, the game-changing tournament created over 400,000 new opportunities for girls and women to engage in grassroots legacy football activities. The win was the glorious icing on the cake of a decade of growth and investment. It was a wonderful serendipity that the win came in the 50th anniversary year of England Women; a moment we all got to celebrate at Wembley on 7 October 2022 when Jill Scott presented the original 1972 team with their long-awaited caps. A year later, the Lionesses made more history in Australia when they reached the FIFA Women's World Cup Final in Sydney, a first-ever appearance at that stage of the competition following an exciting campaign 'down under'. Unfortunately, Sarina Wiegman's team came up against a Spanish team who had swept all before them in the competition and lost by 1-0 in the Final. However, that disappointment was replaced with further celebrations when the Lionesses retained their UEFA Women's EURO crown at the 2025 tournament in Switzerland with a penalty shootout victory over Spain in the final to become the first England team to win a major title on foreign soil.


--- [Brief History of Women's Football - Leicestershire Football Archive] ---
The first recorded women’s football match in Great Britain, billed as a Scotland–England international and organised by two theatre entrepreneurs, took place on 7 May 1881, at Edinburgh’s Hibernian Park. Scotland beat England 3-0. Eleven days later the same teams played in Glasgow to a crowd of more than 5,000. The match was abandoned after a violent pitch invasion during which the women were “roughly jostled”, and chased by a mob as they left the grounds. Further games resulted in similar pitch invasions. It is uncertain what the pitch invasions were in protest against. However, the press tone, which would dominate coverage of women’s football for the next century, was clearly established in 1881: barely disguised contempt regarding player appearance, including costume, and the standard of play, overlaid with a certainty that football was a rough man’s game unsuitable for women. A new club was founded by Alfred Hewitt Smith and Nettie Honeyball, the British Ladies’ Football Club, in late 1894. Lady Florence Dixie, the youngest daughter of the Marquess of Queensbury, acted as chairman and sponsor. An advertisement was placed in the Daily Graphic seeking those interested in forming a football club for women which attracted around 30 women, who trained twice weekly under the tutelage of Tottenham Hotspur wing-half Bill Julian. The club divided into a north and a south team and on 23 March 1895, 10,000 spectators watched the inaugural game at Crouch End London. Unlike in the matches of 1881, players no longer had to wear corsets and high-heeled boots, but acquired standard man’s boots in suitable sizes. They still had to wear bonnets, with the game being stopped if any woman headed the ball and it dislodged either bonnet or hairpin which had to be replaced before the game could resume. The reaction was generally one of being heckled by the crowd, and press censure, bordering on derision. Despite this, the club went on tour, and in the following two years played some 100 exhibition matches. The British Ladies’ played their second match at Preston Park on 6 April 1895. The following game at Bury was attended by 5,000. Further exhibition matches were played in New Brompton, Walsall and Newcastle – where the North beat South 4–3 at St James’ Park watched by more than 8,000 spectators -South Shields, Darlington and at the Athletic Grounds in Loughborough in October – the first recorded ladies football game played in Leicestershire! The strain of playing took its toll, and by September 1896 the ladies could only field a few players. They were also broke, and arriving in Exeter found they had insufficient funds to either leave or pay their hotel bill. Appeals to the mayor of Exeter fell on deaf ears and he refused to pay. The ladies had to be rescued by friends, and the activities of the club came to an end. During World War I more than 900,000 women joined the two million Brits already working in munitions factories making bombs, shells, bullets and cartridges imperative to the British war effort. Before the war, these jobs were considered ill-suited for women, but with the sheer number of men at the front, factories had no choice but to open their doors to female workers. For many of these women it was the first job they had ever had and they relished the camaraderie, teamwork and occasionally a change in wardrobe. Factory owners were concerned about the impact of such intense manual labour on their female employees. The women factory workers, so called ‘Munitionettes‘ began playing football in their spare time and eventually formed football teams. Although women’s football was not unheard of before the World War I it did not gain anywhere near the same popularity that the women’s football teams developed during the War. The Government encouraged women to play football as the games boosted morale and reinforced the image that women were capable of jobs deemed only appropriate for men. All of the matches women played in also raised money for War charities. The football that the munitionettes played was as full of gusto and rough and tumble as the men’s games, a sign of how prescriptive gender roles were slowly changing in the early 1900s. Kicking and hacking ones opponent was quite common amongst the girls. Although there were some critics who believed that a woman’s place wasn’t on the football field, more frequently, communities rallied behind their all-female football teams. On Christmas Day, 1916, the first match between factory organised women’s teams, occurred in Ulverston, Cumbria. The best known factory team was the legendary Dick, Kerr’s Ladies FC founded in Preston, Lancashire, England as a World War I-era works team for the company Dick, Kerr & Co. They played a total of 828 games between 1917 and 1965 and raised tens of thousands of pounds for charity in its first few years, a huge sum of money! One of these matches, played at Goodison Park, Liverpool on Boxing Day 1920, attracted a crowd of 53,000, with another 10,000–15,000 reportedly turned away because the ground was full. Several munition girls match reports have been found for Leicestershire-based teams. Perhaps best known are the Coalville Munition Girls (right photo), who won the coveted Bass Charity Vase during the First World War in 1918. They beat Shobnall girls 3-1 in the final after overcoming Messrs. Green & Co [Woodville] in the semi-final. All Vase games were played at Peel Croft in Burton. It was the first time in two years that the Cup had been played and the only time a women’s team had been in the tournament. Even though the end of World War I in 1918 saw many men return to work and women return to the home, the immense popularity of women’s football continued, with the Dick, Kerr’s Ladies playing more games in 1920 than any professional men’s team in the same period. Dick, Kerr’s Ladies played in Leicester twice – the first against St Helen’s Ladies in 1920 attracted more 13,000 spectators and in the second 7 years later they played Blackpool Ladies. Both games attracted considerable press attention, raising important issues – dress reform, the feminine ideal, women’s sexuality, and the rigid British class structure. In 1921, the Football Association banned all women’s teams from playing on Association-affiliated grounds, arguing that the game is “not fitted for females”, citing the high costs of player expenses, and alleging financial corruption. While a handful of teams, like Dick, Kerr’s, found alternative venues, the FA’s decision saw most women’s teams disband and reduced spectator numbers for the few who remained. Around 30 teams from across England met in Liverpool on 10 December 1921 to formalise the English Ladies Football Association (ELFA). This aimed “to popularise the game among girls and to assist charity”. The following year saw the first and only ELFA Challenge Cup competition. Stoke Ladies lifted the trophy, beating Doncaster and Bentley Ladies 3-1 in the June 1922 final. Though stymied by a lack of decent-sized facilities, women’s football carried on throughout the ‘30s and there was a mini-revival during World War II when again teams based at factories played matches to both boost morale and to raise money for charities. Little changed throughout the 50s and early 60s. Interest in football for women in England surged again after the men’s success in the 1966 World Cup, resulting in the formation of ladies football clubs as well as local/regional league and cup competitions. Leicestershire clubs – British Rail (Wigston), Emgals (East Midlands Gas Board team), Leicester City Supporters LFC (later to become Leicester Ladies) and Rainbow Dazzlers (Moira) – were members of the Midland Ladies League. Women’s Football Association was established in 1969. The Women’s FA Challenge Cup, the top annual cup tournament for women’s clubs in English football, designed as an equivalent to the FA Cup in men’s football, began in 1970–71 as the Mitre Challenge Trophy. There were 71 entrants, including teams from Scotland and Wales. Leicester’s Emgals finished in third place in both 1971 and 1972, The FA ban was finally overturned in 1971 meaning women’s teams could play at grounds around the country again. England’s first international match was against Scotland in 1972, and they came back from 2-0 down for a 3-2 win against their northern rivals. England reached the final of the inaugural European Competition for Women’s Football in 1984, losing to Sweden on penalties. The FA took over from the WFA in 1993, though by this time, the WFA had already created the Women’s National League, becoming the Women’s Premier League in 1992, to parallel the renaming of the top level of men’s competition. Most professional men’s clubs creates, or became affiliated to, a women’s team and the sport gradually grew. In 2008, the women’s league system was transformed following the announcement of a new top-level competition – the Women’s Super League. Taking the best eight teams following sixteen applications and placing them into a no-relegation single division, the Women’s Super League sought to draw greater exposure and funding into the game. The WSL faced several problems in its early stages, with the league having to be delayed a year until March 2011 due to the lingering financial instability in the aftermath of the 2007 global recession. Launching in 2011, the WSL proved successful enough to expand to a two-division, 20-team set-up in 2014. It wasn’t until 2018 that the Women’s Super League become fully professional with all 11 top flight teams strictly full-time. Leicester City WFC, founded in 2004 won the Women’s Championship after a 2–0 victory over London City and were promoted to the FA Women’s Super League. Popularity of the women’s game has rocketed following the success of Lionesses. Euro 2017 saw the national side win their group before being knocked out in the semi-finals by the Dutch. Similarly the 2019 World Cup they reached the last four. Dutch coach Sarina Wiegman led England to a 2-1 win over Germany in the final of Euro 2022,and in 2023 England were narrowly beaten by Spain in the World Cup Final.


--- [Malcolm Bailey's Football Blog: THE ELFA AND JEANNIE] ---
The English Ladies' Football Association (ELFA) was formed in 1921 and remained active until December 1922. It was arguably a direct response to the Football Association (FA)’s ban on women's football teams at that time. Despite being more popular than some men's football (one match saw a 53,000 strong crowd), women's football in England was halted, when The FA outlawed the playing of the game on Association members' pitches, the FA stating that "the game of football is quite unsuitable for females and ought not to be encouraged." The first meeting of the ELFA was held several weeks after the ban and Leonard Bridgett, the manager and coach of Stoke Ladies, was its first president. Bridgett helped to organise the first and only English Ladies Football Association Challenge Cup competition in the spring of 1922. 24 teams entered the competition and the winners were Stoke Ladies, who beat Doncaster and Bentley Ladies 3–1 on 24 June 1922. The ELFA folded in over a year, and women continued to play in local parks and even dog-tracks, with no money or infrastructural support from the Football Association, no resources, coaches or pitches. These restrictions stayed in place for fifty years and was only lifted in 1971. Women's football had already been established before World War I but it had not been well received until the Football League suspended all of its matches after the 1914–15 season. As a generation of young men signed up to serve their country, the women took on traditional male roles, which had been previously considered unsuitable for women and their physical frame. The most familiar image was the munitions factory girl, who enjoys kickabouts during their breaks. As the war progressed, women's football transformed into a more formalised sport with many women's teams emerging from munitions factories. At the time, it was organised for fund-raising for war charities. At first, people flock to see the so-called munitionettes take on teams of injured soldiers and women from other factories. Eventually, they started to enjoy the matches for the skill and ability of the women players. In August 1917, the Munitionettes' Cup was established, with the first winners being Blyth Spartans. However, when the war was over, the factories started closing and women who had been liberated during wartime was forced to return to their "right and proper place" in society. No longer seen as being moral and appropriate, football was now considered to be unladylike and dangerous for women's health by so-called medical experts and physicians. On 5 December 1921, the FA cited strong opinions about football's unsuitability for females. They even requested the clubs belonging to the Association to refuse the use of their grounds for woman's matches. In response, on 10 December 1921, a meeting was held in Liverpool. It was attended by representatives of about 30 women's football teams. The meeting resulted in the establishment of the English Ladies Football Association (ELFA), with a league of 57 teams of amateur players. The ELFA's goals were to support women footballers, popularise the game amongst women and assist charity. One of the first teams to declare their intention of joining was Chorley Ladies FC, who had 60 members and who had raised over £3,000 for charity. W. Henley was appointed as Secretary of the Association's pro team. He was assigned to set up another meeting in Liverpool for which about 60 clubs were expected to be present. The meeting actually took place in Blackburn on 17 December with representatives attending from 57 clubs, and expressions of interest were sent by many others unable to be present. After a long discussion, some changes in the rules were accepted to accommodate women players, including: Size of playing field will be altered. Introduction of a lighter ball. Eliminating charging. Use of hands will be allowed to protect face. A member of the original 1972 Lionesses believes they deserve an apology from the Football Association for failing to award them official caps and forgetting about them for 50 years. In interviews with those who played in England’s first official women’s game 50 years ago revealed how they felt hurt that their exploits had been forgotten by the FA and were angry that they had never received official caps like their male counterparts. Most of the team were instead given replica caps handmade by Flo Bilton, an officer at the Women’s Football Association. But Jeannie Allott (below), a winger in the team, told that she was given only a white plastic football bag to carry their boots. “Can you imagine Bobby Charlton getting that?” she said. Allott was 16 years old when she made her England debut in the inaugural game against Scotland in November 1972. She was from Crewe and did not have the money to pay for travel to London for matches and training and recalls hitchhiking the journey. She once slept at Waterloo Station when she was unable to hitch a ride home. “I got in a lorry, a milk cart, anything that was going down to London,” Allott, 66, said. “The things we do for the England team.“That’s why it’s frustrating. What we went through to get women’s football where it is today. Nothing that happened in the past should be forgotten but the FA forgot us. We want a cap and I believe we deserve an apology. “We didn’t have equal rights in those days. It was a shame. Some in the FA didn’t agree with ladies football. It was a man’s world.” Allott appeared in Sports Illustrated when she was eight years old, the only girl playing for Wistaston Green Primary School. She went on to play for Fodens, a women’s team created by the lorry manufacturing plant Foden Trucks in nearby Sandbach, and won the Women’s FA Cup in 1974. When she was 17, Allott moved to the Netherlands and played for several teams including alongside current England women’s manager Sarina Wiegman for KFC. Allott played on the left and Wiegman on the right. “She was a very good footballer,” Allott said. “She’s like Glenn Hoddle. She had the technique and the brains. She’s done a lot for ladies football.” Allott even switched allegiance to play for the Netherlands, scoring eight times in 12 games. “I felt more appreciated there,” she said. “They paid for everyone’s travel costs, no matter where you lived.” She had offers to play professionally in Germany but decided to stay in Holland, where she has lived and worked as a shipping planner ever since.


--- [1922–23 FA Cup - Wikipedia] ---
The 1922–23 FA Cup was the 48th season of the world's oldest association football competition, the Football Association Challenge Cup (more usually known as the FA Cup). Bolton Wanderers won the competition, beating West Ham United 2–0 in the first final to be held at Wembley Stadium, London.
Matches were scheduled to be played at the stadium of the team named first on the date specified for each round, which was always a Saturday. If scores were level after 90 minutes had been played, a replay would take place at the stadium of the second-named team later the same week. If the replayed match was drawn further replays would be held at neutral venues until a winner was determined. If scores were level after 90 minutes had been played in a replay, a 30-minute period of extra time would be played.
