=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Anthem of Bogotá - Wikipedia]
The anthem's lyrics were written by the poet Pedro Medina Avendaño and the music was composed by the musician Roberto Pineda Duque. The anthem was selected through a public concourse announced following the agreement 71 of 9 September 1967, whose judge was named by the decree number 731 of 3 July 1974 and the prize was 50.000 pesos. The judges of the concourse selected this song on 31 July ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthem_of_Bogot%C3%A1

[Pedro Medina Avendaño - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
Pedro Medina Avendaño Pedro Medina Avendaño is a Colombian poet and the author of the lyrics to the Anthem of Bogotá. The melody was composed by Roberto Pineda Duque. The song was officially declared the anthem of Bogotá on July 31, 1974, by then Mayor of Bogotá, Aníbal Fernandez de Soto. ee also * Anthem of Bogotá * Bogotá Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/1796797

[Himno de Bogotá | Bogota.gov.co]
Himno de Bogotá Letra: Pedro Medina Avendaño Música: Roberto Pineda Duque Coro Entonemos un himno a tu cielo a tu tierra y tu puro vivir ¡Blanca estrella que alumbra en los Andes! ¡Ancha senda que va al porvenir!. (bis) Estrofa I Tres guerreros abrieron tus ojos a una espada, a una cruz, y a un pendón desde entonces no hay miedo en tus lindes ni codicia en tu gran corazón. (bis) Estrofa ...
URL: https://bogota.gov.co/infancia/himno-de-bogota

[Himno de Bogotá | Anthempedia | Fandom]
Himno de Bogotá The Anthem of Bogota was written by poet Pedro Medina Avendaño and composed by the musician Roberto Pineda Duque. The anthem was selected through a public concourse announced following the agreement 71 of 9 September 1967, whose judge was named by the decree number 731 of 3 July 1974 and the prize was 50.000 pesos.
URL: https://anthems.fandom.com/wiki/Himno_de_Bogot%C3%A1

[Anthem of Bogotá - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Sep 20, 2024 · History The anthem’s lyrics were written by the poet Pedro Medina Avendaño and the music was composed by the musician Roberto Pineda Duque. The anthem was selected through a public concourse announced following the agreement 71 of 9 September 1967, whose judge was named by the decree number 731 of 3 July 1974 and the prize was 50.000 pesos. The judges of the concourse selected this song on ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/Anthem-of-Bogot%C3%A1


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Anthem of Bogotá - Wikipedia] ---
The Anthem of Bogotá is the musical composition that symbolizes the Colombia's capital city. It was officially adopted through the decree 1000 of July 31, 1974.


--- [Pedro Medina Avendaño - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
Pedro Medina — Not to be confused with Colombian poet Pedro Medina Avendaño .Pedro Luis Medina (October 5, 1957 ndash; March 25, 1997) was a Cuban refugee who was executed in Florida for the murder of a former teacher; the circumstances of his execution… … Wikipedia Pedro de Valdivia — Saltar a navegación, búsqueda Pedro de Valdivia Pedro de Valdivia Óleo de Francisco Mandiola Biblioteca Nacional de Chile Conquistad … Wikipedia Español Pedro de Villagómez — Saltar a navegación, búsqueda Pedro de Villagómez y Vivanco VI Arzobispo de Lima 1642 1671 Consagración episcopal … Wikipedia Español Medina del Campo — Este artículo o sección necesita ser wikificado con un formato acorde a las convenciones de estilo. Por favor, edítalo para que las cumpla. Mientras tanto, no elimines este aviso. También puedes ayudar wikificando otros artículos o cambiando este … Wikipedia Español Anexo:Himnos nacionales y de territorios dependientes — Artículo principal: Himno Los territorios incluidos en cursiva en la lista no son naciones independientes en la actualidad, teniendo distintos grados de autonomía. Estos territorios se listan bajo la denominación actual de ese país, o en su caso… … Wikipedia Español Himno de Bogotá — Partitura para piano del Himno de Bogotá. Información general Himno de … Wikipedia Español Bogotá — Bogotá, D.C. City Bogotá Distrito Capital Downtown Bogota … Wikipedia Sogamoso — Bandera … Wikipedia Español Bogotá — Saltar a navegación, búsqueda Para otros usos de este término, véase Bogotá (desambiguación). 4°35′53″N 74°4′33″O / … Wikipedia Español Anthem of Bogotá — The lyrics to the anthem of Bogotá, the capital of the Republic of Colombia, were written by Pedro Medina Avendaño. The music was composed by Roberto Pineda Duque. The song was officially declared the anthem of Bogotá by decree 1000 of July 31,… … Wikipedia


--- [Himno de Bogotá | Bogota.gov.co] ---
El poeta boyacense Pedro Medina Avendaño escribió la letra del himno y la composición de la música estuvo a cargo del compositor antioqueño, Roberto Pineda Duque. El 31 de julio de 1974, este himno fue seleccionado entre varias propuesta y ganó un premio de 50 mil pesos. El himno fue escuchado oficialmente, por primera vez, el 7 de agosto de 1974 en un concierto realizado en el Teatro Jorge Eliécer Gaitán. Todos tenemos un cantante dentro. ¡Anímate a cantarlo! Himno de Bogotá Letra: Pedro Medina Avendaño Música: Roberto Pineda Duque Coro Entonemos un himno a tu cielo a tu tierra y tu puro vivir ¡Blanca estrella que alumbra en los Andes! ¡Ancha senda que va al porvenir!. (bis) Estrofa I Tres guerreros abrieron tus ojos a una espada, a una cruz, y a un pendón desde entonces no hay miedo en tus lindes ni codicia en tu gran corazón. (bis) Estrofa II Hirió el hondo diamante un agosto el cordaje de un nuevo laúd y hoy se escucha el fluir melodioso en los himnos de la juventud. Estrofa III Fértil madre de altiva progenie que sonríe ante el vano oropel siempre atenta a la luz de la mañana y al pasado y su luz siempre fiel. Estrofa IV La sabana es un cielo caído una alfombra tendida a tus pies y del mundo variado que animas eres brazo y cerebro a la vez. Estrofa V Sobreviven de un reino dorado de un imperio sin puestas de sol en ti un templo, un escudo, una reja un retablo, una pila, un farol. Estrofa VI Al gran Caldas que escruta los astros y a Bolívar que torna a nacer a Nariño accionando la imprenta como en sueños los vuelves a ver. Estrofa VII Caros, Cuervos y Pombos y Silvas tantos nombres de fama inmortal que en el hilo sin fin de la historia les dio vida tu amor maternal. Estrofa VIII Oriflama de la Gran Colombia en Caracas y Quito estará para siempre en la luz de tu gloria con las dianas de la libertad. Estrofa IX Noble, leal en la paz y en la guerra de tus fueres colinas al pie y en el arco de la media lunar resucitas en cid, santa fe. Estrofa X Flor de razas compendio y corona en la patria no hay otra ni habrá nuestra voz la repiten los siglos: ¡Bogotá! ¡Bogotá! ¡Bogotá!


--- [Himno de Bogotá | Anthempedia | Fandom] ---
The Anthem of Bogota was written by poet Pedro Medina Avendaño and composed by the musician Roberto Pineda Duque. The anthem was selected through a public concourse announced following the agreement 71 of 9 September 1967, whose judge was named by the decree number 731 of 3 July 1974 and the prize was 50.000 pesos. The judges of the concourse selected this song on 31 July 1974 and the mayor Anibal Fernandez de Soto signed the decree that declared the song as the official anthem of the city. Its debut was on 7 August 1974 in a concert made in the Jorge Eliecer Gaitan Theater. The agreement 1 of April 19, 1988, fixes the rules for the use of the symbols of the city of Bogotá, the decree 120 of March 14, 1991, obligates the citizens to teach the symbols of the city in the educative centers and also to intone the anthem at every public event within the city. Finally the decree 64 of February 12 of 1993 requests every educative establishment to raise the city's flag weekly along with the intonation of the anthem. Since the declaration of this decree, some football fans intone the anthem on every sport event, something that helps to promote the learning of the anthem among the youth of the city.


--- [Anthem of Bogotá - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Adopted July 31, 1974 | || Music Roberto Pineda Duque, 1967 | The Anthem of Bogota is the musical composition that symbolizes the Colombia's capital city. It was officially adopted through the decree 1000 of July 31, 1974. History The anthem’s lyrics were written by the poet Pedro Medina Avendaño and the music was composed by the musician Roberto Pineda Duque. The anthem was selected through a public concourse announced following the agreement 71 of 9 September 1967, whose judge was named by the decree number 731 of 3 July 1974 and the prize was 50.000 pesos. The judges of the concourse selected this song on 31 July 1974 and the mayor Anibal Fernandez de Soto signed the decree that declared the song as the official anthem of the city. Its debut was on 7 August 1974 in a concert made in the Jorge Eliecer Gaitan Theater. The agreement 1 of April 19, 1988 fixes the rules for the use of the symbols of the city of Bogota, the decree 120 of March 14, 1991 obligates the citizens to teach the symbols of the city in the educative centers and also to intone the anthem at every public event within the city. Finally the decree 64 of February 12 of 1993 requests every educative establishment to raise the city’s flag weekly along with the intonation of the anthem. Since the declaration of this decree, some football fans intone the anthem on every sport event, something that helps to promote the learning of the anthem among the youth of the city.
