=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jackie (Ciara album) - Wikipedia]
On April 24, 2015, Ciara premiered a video snippet for the album's sixth track, "Fly", on social media site, Instagram; the video was filmed by Taylor Cut Films. [33]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jackie_(Ciara_album)

[Ciara - Jackie Lyrics and Tracklist | Genius]
May 1, 2015 · Jackie is the sixth studio album by Ciara. The record is named after Ciara’s mother. The album is R&B with a mixture of pop, trap, hip-hop, and many more.
URL: https://genius.com/albums/Ciara/Jackie

[Ciara: Jackie Album Review | Pitchfork]
"Man, I just delivered a nine-pound, 10-ounce baby. I'm a bad motherfucker," Ciara drawls on "Jackie (B.M.F.)", the explosive intro track on her sixth album, Jackie.
URL: https://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/20555-jackie/

[The Standard]
We provide insurance, retirement and investment products and services. Work with our team of remarkable people united by compassion and a genuine desire to help others.
URL: https://www.standard.com/

[Album Tracklisting: Ciara - 'Jackie' - That Grape Juice]
Apr 14, 2015 — 1. 'Jackie (B.M.F.)' · 2. 'That's How I'm Feelin” (ft. Pitbull & Missy Elliott) · 3. 'Lullaby' · 4. 'Dance Like We're Making Love' · 5. 'Stuck On ...
URL: https://thatgrapejuice.net/2015/04/album-tracklisting-ciara-jackie/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jackie (Ciara album) - Wikipedia] ---
Jackie is the sixth studio album by American singer Ciara, and was released on May 1, 2015, through Epic Records. Following her departure from her previous record label, and the release of her self-titled fifth studio album, Ciara embarked on a hiatus in order to focus on her relationship with American rapper Future, which provoked Ciara to start work on her sixth album which was predominantly inspired by her then-fiancé. In May 2014, Ciara gave birth to her first child and shortly thereafter called off the engagement. Following the public break-up, Ciara postponed the album and began to record new music, while concentrating on motherhood.
During the recording of the album, Ciara worked with numerous long time collaborators including Harmony "H-Money" Samuels and Polow da Don, as well as less frequent collaborators such as Dr. Luke and Cirkut. The producers' efforts resulted in a predominantly pop and R&B album that took influence from hip hop, dance-pop, house, electropop, trap, drum and bass, and 1990s R&B, with lyrics that revolve around themes of love, betrayal, and motherhood. Entitled after her mother, Ciara called upon numerous artists to be featured on Jackie, including Pitbull and Missy Elliott.
Upon release, Jackie was met with a mixed reception from music critics. The album peaked at number 17 on the US Billboard 200, with just 25,000 album-equivalent units. It was preceded by the release of the lead single, "I Bet", which debuted at number 96 on the US Billboard Hot 100, peaking at number 43. The album was further promoted by a second single, "Dance like We're Making Love", and Ciara embarked upon the Jackie Tour.


--- [Ciara - Jackie Lyrics and Tracklist | Genius] ---
Jackie is the sixth studio album by Ciara. The record is named after Ciara’s mother. The album is R&B with a mixture of pop, trap, hip-hop, and many more. It focuses on themes such as motherhood and betrayal. The record was a commercial failure, peaking at seventeen on the Billboard 200 with only twenty-five thousand copies. Only two singles were released for the album; “I Bet” and “Dance Like We’re Making Love”.


--- [Ciara: Jackie Album Review | Pitchfork] ---
Motherhood has often brought out the best in your fave pop stars. Mariah, M.I.A., Madonna, Kelis, Beyoncé: all have stellar postpartum releases to their names, with some explicitly riffing on the theme, and others signaling a shift—sometimes patronizingly referred to as more 'mature'—in sound. These albums all sound very different, but they form a sort of collective statement that motherhood isn't some aesthetic, thematic or musical purgatory for women. We are not content, these working women say, on being aged out, or matron-ized, by the youth-oriented trajectory of the industry. "Man, I just delivered a nine-pound, 10-ounce baby. I'm a bad motherfucker," Ciara drawls on "Jackie (B.M.F.)", the explosive intro track on her sixth album, Jackie. Named after her own mother, Jackie doesn't necessarily shift Ciara's sound so much as a frame it with a faint redemption narrative, centered around the birth of her baby and her breakup with rapper and erstwhile ex Future. "You actin' like you upgrading me, I upgraded you/ You and me at Fashion Week in Paris, I put you onto that new," goes the album's first single, the breakup ballad "I Bet". But Ciara's never been much for album-length statements. Instead the ATL-reared R&B pop star, best known for her sensuous, studious approach to choreography, has created a career by rewiring the city's full throttle hip-hop motifs into club-friendly pop. No score yet, be the first to add. Jackie doesn't do much to allay the feeling, which has followed her for her whole career, that there's better R&B pop out there. But instead of positioning herself against Rihanna—who is only just starting to really find her vocal strength, and who is decidedly not a dancer—or Beyoncé (ha ha), Ciara is content to be a reliable mainstay, a translator of Atlanta's ever-shifting avant-garde and the constant bringer of high-energy dance anthems. She's innovative within her own framework: Before Beyoncé started dabbling with bars, Ciara was already rapping on 2013's "Super Turnt Up" and the album-less Mike WiLL Made It single, "Wake Up, No Make-Up". The problems with Jackie, a serviceable record that gets better with multiple listens, is that unlike her previous releases it's more heavily focused on paint-by-numbers Dr. Luke electro. And, an even bigger problem—and this is where Ciara has always faltered—is that it hints at a storyline, but doesn't go deeper. Moms totally care about more than just being moms, but consider that Ciara's records are also too often about nothing at all, and it's hard not to wish she'd gone into more depth. It's an opportunity and, again, on Jackie, she doesn't take it. There's a song called "Lullaby" that's not about a baby but tucking a lover in for the evening. The actual lullaby comes toward the very end, with "I Got You"; she sings "Hush, Little Baby" while Future Zahir gurgles the outro. There are interesting moments: the hesitant merging of post-ratchet trap and drum and bass on "B.M.F.", the Niles Rodgers-esque retro-soul bounce of "Kiss & Tell", and her beatific, waxy vocal performance on "That's How I'm Feelin'" and "Fly". Both are pillowy Polow Da Don electro-lite bangers—the former featuring Pitbull and Missy Elliott—referencing early Ciara, like the jock-jam energy of "1, 2 Step". For Jackie's deluxe edition, Ciara calls upon Joe Jonas to switch up the dewy, gloriously shady "I Bet", featuring imitation-Future yelps and adlibs. And second single "Dance Like We're Making Love", is a gorgeous, sleek midtempo track, similar to Frank Ocean's "Novocane" but with a bigger, airier hook. She carried her last album cycle off a slow jam about a very public romance ("Body Party"), but "I Bet" just isn't as strong. Jackie's best moments come on those Polow power jams, when the music imitates the explosiveness of Ciara's movement. What would've made Jackie better than the last album—what would've given her the edge that her peers maintain—is some insight behind Ciara's redemption songs.


--- [The Standard] ---
Solutions You Can Count On We’re here to smooth the way with the right financial solutions and insurance products for you. Learn more about how we can help you and your family achieve financial wellness. Explore the workplace benefits and solutions that are right for you and your employees. View products, services and unique programs for your clients. Navigating Life Insurance for Every Generation Designing life insurance for a multigenerational workforce isn’t one size fits all. Here are practical approaches employers can take to offer flexible coverage, education and tools that meet employees’ needs. Protecting People and Futures Since 1906 Your family. Your team. Your future. For more than a century, we’ve helped people achieve financial well‑being and peace of mind through workplace benefits — including life, disability and retirement solutions. We combine expertise, empathy and straightforward guidance to make protecting what matters most simpler and more personal. Explore Our Offerings Support and Solutions for All Workplaces We have benefits and solutions for clients of all sizes and types. Workplace Possibilities℠ Program Learn about our proactive, whole-person approach to disability. We can provide personalized support to help employees stay at work or get back to work safely. Benefits Administration and Support Move forward with a dependable benefits administration experience, thanks to our partnerships with innovative companies. You get the support you need at every step, from enrollment to billing. Small Business Solutions Get the insurance and investment products you need for your small business, without sacrificing quality service. Best-in-Class Service Rely on service that’s based on our people-first commitment.


--- [Album Tracklisting: Ciara - 'Jackie' - That Grape Juice] ---
With the release of Ciara‘s new album ‘Jackie’ strutting ever-nearer, the singer has unwrapped its official tracklist. Due in stores May 4th, the Epic Records set is preceded by Urban hit ‘I Bet’ and is set to arrive as the star hits the road for the ‘Jackie Tour.’ Producers on the project include Dr. Luke, Harmony Samuels, Diane Warren, Ester Dean, and Polow Da Don. Want to know which other songs join ‘Bet’ on the set? Find out below! ‘Jackie’ Tracklisting Standard Edition 1. ‘Jackie (B.M.F.)’ 2. ‘That’s How I’m Feelin” (ft. Pitbull & Missy Elliott) 3. ‘Lullaby’ 4. ‘Dance Like We’re Making Love’ 5. ‘Stuck On You’ 6. ‘Fly’ 7. ‘I Bet’ 8. ‘Give Me Love’ 9. ‘Kiss & Tell’ 10. ‘One Woman Army’ 11. ‘I Got You’ Deluxe Edition 1. ‘Jackie (B.M.F.)’ 2. ‘That’s How I’m Feelin” (ft. Pitbull & Missy Elliott) 3. ‘Lullaby’ 4. ‘Dance Like We’re Making Love’ 5. ‘Stuck On You’ 6. ‘Fly’ 7. ‘I Bet’ 8. ‘Give Me Love’ 9. ‘Kiss & Tell’ 10. ‘One Woman Army’ 11. ‘Only One’ 12. ‘One Woman Army Intro’ 13. ‘One Woman Army’ 14. ‘I Got You’ 15. ‘I Bet’ (ft. Joe Jonas) [Remix] 16. ‘I Bet’ (ft. T.I.) [R3hab Remix]
