=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ricksy Business - Wikipedia]
" Ricksy Business " is the eleventh and final episode of the first season of the American science fiction television series Rick and Morty. Written by Ryan Ridley and Tom Kauffman and directed by Stephen Sandoval, the episode aired on April 14, 2014. The title of the episode is a pun to the film, Risky Business.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ricksy_Business

[Abrodolph Lincoler | Rick and Morty Wiki | Fandom]
Abrodolph Lincoler is a genetically engineered human clone who debuted in "Ricksy Business". He was created by Rick by combining the DNA of Abraham Lincoln and Adolf Hitler in an attempt to create a morally neutral super leader. He failed and the end result was a cognitively dissonant and morally confused emotional train wreck. Abrodolph Lincoler appears at a party Rick and Summer hosted ...
URL: https://rickandmorty.fandom.com/wiki/Abrodolph_Lincoler

[Rick and Morty: Why Is the Series So Fixated On Nazis? - CBR]
Abradolf Lincler first appears in Season 1, Episode 11 of Rick and Morty, "Ricksy Business." In this season finale, Rick throws a party at the Smith household, only to be irritated by the arrival of his uninvited guest and unwanted creation, Abradolf Lincler. Rick describes him as his "misguided effort to create a morally neutral super leader by combining the DNA of Adolf Hitler and ...
URL: https://www.cbr.com/rick-and-morty-why-is-the-series-so-fixated-on-nazis/

[Ricksy Business | Rick and Morty Wiki | Fandom]
"Ricksy Business" is the eleventh and final episode of the first season of Rick and Morty. It is the eleventh episode of the series overall. It premiered on April 14, 2014. It was written by Ryan Ridley & Tom Kauffman and directed by Stephen Sandoval. The episode is rated TV-14-DLSV. When Jerry and Beth go away to take part in a re-creation of the sinking of the Titanic, Rick and Summer throw ...
URL: https://rickandmorty.fandom.com/wiki/Ricksy_Business

[List of Rick and Morty episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Rick and Morty episodes Rick and Morty is an American animated science fiction sitcom created by Justin Roiland and Dan Harmon. The series follows Rick Sanchez, an alcoholic, nihilistic mad scientist, and his easily distressed grandson, Morty Smith as they travel to parallel dimensions and exotic planets with extraterrestrials.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Rick_and_Morty_episodes


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ricksy Business - Wikipedia] ---
"Ricksy Business" is the eleventh and final episode of the first season of the American science fiction television series Rick and Morty. Written by Ryan Ridley and Tom Kauffman and directed by Stephen Sandoval, the episode aired on April 14, 2014. The title of the episode is a pun to the film, Risky Business.


--- [Abrodolph Lincoler | Rick and Morty Wiki | Fandom] ---
| “ | Prepare to be emancipated from your own inferior genes! | | — Abrodolph Lincoler | Abrodolph Lincoler is a genetically engineered human clone who debuted in "Ricksy Business". He was created by Rick by combining the DNA of Abraham Lincoln and Adolf Hitler in an attempt to create a morally neutral super leader. He failed and the end result was a cognitively dissonant and morally confused emotional train wreck. Biography[] Abrodolph Lincoler appears at a party Rick and Summer hosted, seeking revenge against his creator. During a rant directed at Rick, he accidentally antagonizes Brad, who becomes hostile after Lincoler talks down to him. Since Brad is black, Lincoler inappropriately tries to appease him by pointing out he is half Abraham Lincoln. This only enrages Brad further and he subsequently beats Lincoler up after Rick and the other partygoers egg him on. Still recovering from his beat-down, Lincoler is sent to find Kalaxian Crystals alongside Morty and Nancy after the Smith Residence is teleported to another planet. The trio are ambushed by an alien creature, which Lincoler valiantly fights off, although he is heavily wounded in the process. He passes his seemingly last words along through Morty, revealing that he only wanted to be accepted by his creator, Rick and that he loves Rick like a father. At the end of "Ricksy Business" it is revealed that Lincoler survived his injuries. He awakens, utters "Revenge..." before being picked up and used as a sex toy for the Testicle Monsters that inhabit the planets' surface along with another teen who was taken earlier by them. Much to his surprise, the teen actually enjoys it. Story Train[] A potential, non-canon story in "Never Ricking Morty" shows Abrodolph Lincoler re-appearing when Story Lord starts draining Rick and Morty of their story potential. Lincoler blasts through a wall, alongside a fellow partygoer who was also a victim of the Testicle Monsters, and begins asking Rick for his help. Before the narrative can persist, Rick temporarily resists Story Lord's influence, ending it. Appearance[] Being a combination of Abraham Lincoln and Adolf Hitler, Abrodolph Lincoler retains features from the two of them. He sports Hitler's slicked-down, side-parted hairstyle, prominent eyebrows and toothbrush mustache and had Lincoln's exceptional height as well as his iconic chinstrap beard. His overall build was quite muscular. Clothing-wise, he wore Lincoln's stovepipe hat, as well as army fatigues with a flak jacket or bulletproof vest over top of them. He has a pistol holstered on his hip, but is never seen using it. Personality[] Abrodolph Lincoler is described as a crazed maniac, who is a cognitively dissonant and morally confused emotional train wreck. He speaks at length about the duality of his existence. However, he is shown to be inept at navigating tense social situations, as seen when he antagonized Brad. Lincoler attempted to defuse the situation by pointing out he was half Abraham Lincoln. He also tried to look for Rick for help during the confrontation, but was quickly shut down. While he initially appears to be a tough foe, he is easily beat up by Brad, later though being able to fight off a beast somehow. It can be deduced that this was due to his guard being down, or that he didn't want the party-goers to think that he was indeed a racist by fighting back against Brad. His personal views are a hodgepodge of Lincoln's and Hitler's. For example, while he believes in the emancipation of African-Americans, he also believes in the eradication of 'inferior genes'. He is neither entirely evil nor good. Lincoler also occasionally uses German words mixed with English when talking, since Adolf Hitler was a German politician. Episode Appearances[] Season 1[] - "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" (pictured) - "Ricksy Business" Season 4[] Season 6[] - "Night Family" (pictured) Trivia[] - Abrodolph Lincoler was briefly seen in a picture on the wall of Rick's bedroom in the post-ending credits epilogue for the episode "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind", before his first actual appearance. - In season 2 episode 17 of "Cheers", Coach describes the salesman who sold him the antique scale for the bar as a man who looks like "a president, the guy who freed the slaves, except he wasn't nice at all" and reminded him "of that little guy in Germany with the mustache". This could certainly be the reference that this character is based on.


--- [Rick and Morty: Why Is the Series So Fixated On Nazis? - CBR] ---
No content


--- [Ricksy Business | Rick and Morty Wiki | Fandom] ---
"Ricksy Business" is the eleventh and final episode of the first season of Rick and Morty. It is the eleventh episode of the series overall. It premiered on April 14, 2014. It was written by Ryan Ridley & Tom Kauffman and directed by Stephen Sandoval. The episode is rated TV-14-DLSV. Synopsis[] When Jerry and Beth go away to take part in a re-creation of the sinking of the Titanic, Rick and Summer throw a party that gets out of control. Plot[] Beth and Jerry leave on a trip to experience the Titanic 2, a recreation of the Titanic experience. Jerry is immensely excited to reenact moments from the movie, while Beth is hesitant and overall uninterested. In Beth and Jerry's absence, Beth orders Rick, Morty, and Summer not to trash the house while they are gone and she threatens to put an end to Rick and Morty's adventures if they do. The trio agree as Beth and Jerry drive off. Summer ignores the warnings and attempts to throw a party to become popular. Rick declines due to his plans to throw a party of his own. Beth and Jerry arrive at Titanic 2, which is a replica of the ill fated ship the RMS Titanic. Jerry sees the line to reenact the famous bow scene from the movie and tries to bring Beth along. Beth blows off his request, and shoves a nearby maid Lucy to join him instead. The two bond quickly over a mutual love for the Titanic. Meanwhile, the party at the Smith Residence begins. Some of the party-goers include Glip Glops, Brad, Bird Person, Gear Head, Squanchy and many more. The party begins to amp up and Morty confronts Rick about their decisions. Jessica appears, and Morty shifts his attention to talking to her. Jerry and Lucy continue to enjoy themselves on the ship, but the planned sinking of the ship goes wrong, and the ship doesn't sink due to technical difficulties. Rick's party is getting crazier, Summer blows off a friend of hers named Nancy, which draws criticism from Rick. Abrodolph Lincoler then smashes through a wall. He gets into a brief altercation with Brad who promptly beats him up. Jessica is upset and runs outside, and Morty joins her to console her. While showing her various gadgets in the garage, he walks in on Squanchy masturbating (or "squanching," as he calls it) in a closet, and in the process accidentally knocks over a contraption that teleports the entire house into a weird planet. After Rick takes a look outside, he lets the party-goers know that everything is fine. Morty begins to freak out about the repercussions of his actions. Rick calms him down and tells him to collect some Collaxion Crystals, which would ostensibly be used to take them back home. Rick convinces Abrodolph Lincoler to join Morty, and Summer talks Nancy into joining them as well. The three set out to find the crystals. On the Titanic 2, Lucy finds Jerry and takes him to a storage room where she quickly strips naked and asks him to draw her. Meanwhile, Morty, Nancy, and Lincoler find the crystals but are attacked by a two-headed beast. Lincoler fends off the beast whilst Morty and Nancy collect the crystals. He is mortally wounded whilst defending them. The remainder of the group return to the party and give the crystals to Rick who promptly crushes them up and snorts them. Rick's eyes turn blue, as he gets high, and he starts a rave called the "Rick Dance" along with other party-goers. Rick admits that he can take them back whenever he wanted. Morty, furious after being lied to, throws the rest of the crystals outside. Meanwhile, Jerry attempts to break away from Lucy on the Titanic 2, but she pulls a gun on him and threatens him. She forces him to a prop car, where she attempts to force herself onto him. Beth arrives just in time, and knocks Lucy out with a book. Beth and Jerry pack up their car to leave and Lucy attaches herself to the underside of the car. She holds on briefly before falling and being run over, presumably killing her. Meanwhile, Morty ends the party and forces everyone out. The Smith House is in total shambles, and the cleanup effort begins. Morty is still immensely upset at Rick, but a conversation with Bird Person reveals to him that Rick is masking a great deal of inner pain, and shows Morty that if he truly wants to stop dealing with his grandfather, he should just leave the place destroyed. At first, Morty agrees that this might be the best thing that ever happened to him because will be free of Rick forever. Birdperson then teaches him another saying that means "Whatever lets you sleep at night." Beth and Jerry arrive home, and Birdperson tells him to make his decision as he leaves with Tammy. Morty realizes he does want to continue on his adventures with Rick and pleads with him to do something about the state of the house before his parents walk through the front door. Rick uses a device that completely freezes time for everyone but them, allowing them an infinite amount of time to clean up the house and prevent Beth and Jerry from knowing the house was ever messy. Post-Credits Sequence[] In the post-credits sequence, Lincoler survives his injuries, and as he swears revenge, he is quickly grabbed by the testicle monsters that proceed to exchange Lincoler with one of the teenagers from the party that had been taken earlier with each other and more of the alien beasts. In disgust, Lincoler questions asks the teen if he's actually enjoying it. The teen replies that he does. Characters[] Major Characters[] - Morty - Rick - Beth - Jerry - Summer - Jessica - Brad - Tammy - Birdperson - Abrodolph Lincoler - Nancy - Lucy - Squanchy - Gearhead Minor Characters[] - Scropon - Slow Mobius - Traflorkians - Grace Smith - Floopydoop - Shmoopydoop - Wharborgarbors - Weird-faced teen - Greebybobes (Cameo) - Pripudlians (Cameo) - Stair Goblins (Cameo) - Council of Ricks (Cameo) - MC Haps (Cameo) - Slippery Stair (Cameo) - Plutonian (Cameo) - Samantha (Cameo) Deaths[] Locations[] Songs[] Transcript[] View a full transcript of this episode here. Trivia[] - This episode features the return of many characters featured throughout the first season, albeit as background characters. Notable examples include two Ricks from the Council of Ricks and MC Haps. - This is confusing, however, as Rick does not like the Council, so it does not make sense that they were invited. - The song that plays in the party and at the end of the episode is "Shake That Ass Bitch" by Splack Pack. - The front door of the Smith's house opens multiple ways: - When Summer opens the door for Brad, the door opens into the house with the knob on the left side of the door (looking from the inside of the house) so that it opens toward the dining room. - After Rick welcomes in his Glip Glops, the scene cuts to a view from the outside of the house where the door opens into the house toward the staircase with the knob to right (looking from the inside of the house). - When Morty goes out to see Jessica, the door opens to the outside. The knob is on the left side of the door (looking from the inside of the house). - When everyone leaves the party, the door opens into the house with the knob on the right side of the door (looking from the inside of the house) so that the door opens toward the staircase ... This is how it remains for the rest of the episode. Cultural references[] - The episode title and premise is a parody of the movie "Risky Business". - The old song from "the black effeminate guy from the 50's" Rick refers to is "Tutti Frutti" by Little Richard (which Rick misnames as "Tiny Rogerts"). - Summer wanting to have a party to invite the cool kids is a reference to the 1999-2000 television series Freaks and Geeks episode "Beers and Weirs". Continuing the reference is the character of Nancy who exactly mirrors that of Millie Kentner, the best friend of Lindsay Weir in Freaks and Geeks. - Revolio Clockberg Jr. Is very similar to a character from the Masters of the Universe franchise called "Roboto" (the gears turning inside a clear torso are similar to the action figure). - Birdperson is a parody of "The Hawk" from Buck Rogers (according to the commentary track on the Season 1 DVD). - When Squanchy asks Rick if he can "squanch" (engage in autoerotic asphyxiation), Rick says "mi casa es su casa", a direct reference to the Pulp Fiction scene in which Vincent Vega asks Lance if he can shoot up in his house and he replies with the same "mi casa es su casa". - The movie Titanic plays a prominent role in the episode. - Lucy clings to the bottom of Jerry's car referencing the movie, Cape Fear. She even mentions the reference before getting killed. Gallery Click here to view this page's gallery. References |


--- [List of Rick and Morty episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Rick and Morty is an American animated  science fiction sitcom created by Justin Roiland and Dan Harmon. The series follows Rick Sanchez, an alcoholic, nihilistic mad scientist, and his easily distressed grandson, Morty Smith as they travel to parallel dimensions and exotic planets with extraterrestrials. These adventures commonly cause trouble for Morty's family (Jerry, Beth, and Summer), who are often dragged along as well.
The series premiered on December 2, 2013, on Cartoon Network's late-night programming block Adult Swim. On May 10, 2018, Adult Swim announced a long-term deal with the creators, ordering 70 new episodes of Rick and Morty, through to a tenth season. At a New York Comic Con panel in 2024, it was announced that the series had been renewed for an additional two seasons, renewing the show through season 12.

The eighth season premiered on May 25, 2025. As of July 27, 2025, 81 episodes of Rick and Morty have aired, concluding the eighth season. 


