=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bannerman History, Family Crest & Coats of Arms - HouseOfNames]
The crest now is a demi-man in armour, his right hand grasping a sword, and the motto "Pro Patria" (for my country.) At that time the former banner-bearer and his successive were ordained to carry in their crest a banner and were standard-bearers to the Scottish kings. 1
URL: https://www.houseofnames.com/bannerman-family-crest

[Clan Bannerman Crest & Coats of Arms - tartanshop.com]
There is no such thing as a ‘family coat of arms’ The arms represented below are personal arms (with the above exceptions). Only the individual granted these arms has the right to use them. for more information see our pages on heraldry here:
URL: https://tartanshop.com/blogs/clans-a2/clan-bannerman-crest-coats-of-arms

[Bannerman - Family Crests]
Bannerman Bannerman Clan Bannerman, Baronets of Waterton, Kincardineshire, Scotland, 1682. Arms: Gules a banner displayed argent, thereon a canton azure, charged with a St. Andrew’s cross of the second. Crest: A demi man in armour, holding in the dexter hand a sword proper. Supporters: Two men in armour proper. Motto: Pro patria.
URL: https://www.family-crests.com/bannerman

[Banerman History, Family Crest & Coats of Arms - HouseOfNames]
The crest now is a demi-man in armour, his right hand grasping a sword, and the motto "Pro Patria" (for my country.) At that time the former banner-bearer and ...
URL: https://www.houseofnames.com/banerman-family-crest

[Clan Bannerman History]
The origin of the name Bannerman relates to the privilege, held by ancestors of the family, of carrying the royal standard in the tenth and eleventh centuries. This ancient office is prominently portrayed on the family's coat of arms.
URL: https://stkildastore.com/store/clan/history/Bannerman


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bannerman History, Family Crest & Coats of Arms - HouseOfNames] ---
Bannerman History, Family Crest & Coats of ArmsEtymology of BannermanWhat does the name Bannerman mean? The name Bannerman began among the descendants of an ancient Scottish tribe called the Picts. It was a name for a person who was the standard bearer for the king. While the origin of this name is still somewhat in dispute, most references agree that the name is derived from the Old English word banere and the word man. According to family lore, during the reign of Malcolm III, the King went north to fight rebellious subjects, and at the Spey he saw the bannerman shrink (fall.) The King pulled the banner from him and gave it to Sir Alexander Carron, the ancestor of the Viscounts and Earls of Dundee, father of the Carron whose name was changed to Scrymgour, and the King at once created him knight. The crest now is a demi-man in armour, his right hand grasping a sword, and the motto "Pro Patria" (for my country.) At that time the former banner-bearer and his successive were ordained to carry in their crest a banner and were standard-bearers to the Scottish kings. 1 Early Origins of the Bannerman familyThe surname Bannerman was first found in Aberdeenshire (Gaelic: Siorrachd Obar Dheathain), a historic county, and present day Council Area of Aberdeen, located in the Grampian region of northeastern Scotland, where they held a family seat at Clyntreys. The first of the name on record is Dovinaldus (Donald) Bannerman, King's Physician to King David II of Scotland in the year 1368, although traditionally the family claim that their progenitor was Standard Bearer to Malcolm Canmore in Scotland about the year 1070. 2 Early History of the Bannerman familyThis web page shows only a small excerpt of our Bannerman research. Another 144 words (10 lines of text) covering the years 1382, 1400, 1467, 1500 and 1715 are included under the topic Early Bannerman History in all our PDF Extended History products and printed products wherever possible. Bannerman Spelling VariationsTranslation has done much to alter the appearance of many Scottish names. It was a haphazard process that lacked a basic system of rules. Spelling variations were a common result of this process. Bannerman has appeared Bannerman, Bannaman, Bannermane, Banerman, Banermain, Bannermain and many more. Early Notables of the Bannerman family Bannerman Rankingthe United States, the name Bannerman is the 17,890th most popular surname with an estimated 2,487 people with that name. 3 Many Scots left their country to travel to the North American colonies in search of the freedom they could not find at home. Of those who survived the difficult voyage, many found the freedom they so desired. There they could choose their own beliefs and allegiances. Some became United Empire Loyalists and others fought in the American War of Independence. The Clan societies and highland games that have sprung up in the last century have allowed many of these disparate Scots to recover their collective national identity. A search of immigration and passenger ship lists revealed many early settlers bearing the Bannerman name: Bannerman Settlers in United States in the 17th Century Bannerman Settlers in United States in the 18th Century Bannerman Settlers in Canada in the 18th Century Bannerman Settlers in Canada in the 19th Century Bannerman Settlers in Canada in the 20th Century Bannerman Settlers in Australia in the 19th Century Emigration to New Zealand followed in the footsteps of the European explorers, such as Captain Cook (1769-70): first came sealers, whalers, missionaries, and traders. By 1838, the British New Zealand Company had begun buying land from the Maori tribes, and selling it to settlers, and, after the Treaty of Waitangi in 1840, many British families set out on the arduous six month journey from Britain to Aotearoa to start a new life. Early immigrants include: Bannerman Settlers in New Zealand in the 19th Century The motto was originally a war cry or slogan. Mottoes first began to be shown with arms in the 14th and 15th centuries, but were not in general use until the 17th century. Thus the oldest coats of arms generally do not include a motto. Mottoes seldom form part of the grant of arms: Under most heraldic authorities, a motto is an optional component of the coat of arms, and can be added to or changed at will; many families have chosen not to display a motto. Motto: Pro patria Motto Translation: For my country. |


--- [Clan Bannerman Crest & Coats of Arms - tartanshop.com] ---
Clan Bannerman Crest Worn by all of the name and ancestry Crest Description: A demi man in armour holding in his right hand a sword, Proper Clan Bannerman Coat of Arms A note on Coats of Arms: Under Scottish heraldic law a coat of arms is awarded to an individual (with the exception of civic or corporate arms) . There is no such thing as a ‘family coat of arms’ The arms represented below are personal arms (with the above exceptions). Only the individual granted these arms has the right to use them. for more information see our pages on heraldry here: (https://tartanshop.com/pages/all-about-scottish-heraldry) BANNERMAN of Elsick Gules, a banner, displayed, Argent, thereon a canton, Azure, charged with a St. Andrew’s cross, of the second, as the badge of Scotland


--- [Bannerman - Family Crests] ---
Bannerman Bannerman Clan Bannerman, Baronets of Waterton, Kincardineshire, Scotland, 1682. Arms: Gules a banner displayed argent, thereon a canton azure, charged with a St. Andrew’s cross of the second. Crest: A demi man in armour, holding in the dexter hand a sword proper. Supporters: Two men in armour proper. Motto: Pro patria.


--- [Banerman History, Family Crest & Coats of Arms - HouseOfNames] ---
Banerman History, Family Crest & Coats of ArmsEtymology of BanermanWhat does the name Banerman mean? The ancient Scottish name Banerman is rooted in the people of the Pictish clans. Banerman was a name for a person who was the standard bearer for the king. While the origin of this name is still somewhat in dispute, most references agree that the name is derived from the Old English word banere and the word man. According to family lore, during the reign of Malcolm III, the King went north to fight rebellious subjects, and at the Spey he saw the bannerman shrink (fall.) The King pulled the banner from him and gave it to Sir Alexander Carron, the ancestor of the Viscounts and Earls of Dundee, father of the Carron whose name was changed to Scrymgour, and the King at once created him knight. The crest now is a demi-man in armour, his right hand grasping a sword, and the motto "Pro Patria" (for my country.) At that time the former banner-bearer and his successive were ordained to carry in their crest a banner and were standard-bearers to the Scottish kings. 1 Early Origins of the Banerman familyThe surname Banerman was first found in Aberdeenshire (Gaelic: Siorrachd Obar Dheathain), a historic county, and present day Council Area of Aberdeen, located in the Grampian region of northeastern Scotland, where they held a family seat at Clyntreys. The first of the name on record is Dovinaldus (Donald) Bannerman, King's Physician to King David II of Scotland in the year 1368, although traditionally the family claim that their progenitor was Standard Bearer to Malcolm Canmore in Scotland about the year 1070. 2 Early History of the Banerman familyThis web page shows only a small excerpt of our Banerman research. Another 144 words (10 lines of text) covering the years 1382, 1400, 1467, 1500 and 1715 are included under the topic Early Banerman History in all our PDF Extended History products and printed products wherever possible. Banerman Spelling VariationsIn medieval Scotland, names were more often spelled according to sound than any regular set of rules. An enormous number of spelling variations were the result. Over the years, the name Banerman has been spelled Bannerman, Bannaman, Bannermane, Banerman, Banermain, Bannermain and many more. Early Notables of the Banerman familyMore information is included under the topic Early Banerman Notables in all our PDF Extended History products and printed products wherever possible. Migration of the Banerman familyIn such difficult times, Ireland, Australia, and North America looked like better homes for many Scots. The trips were expensive and grueling, but also rewarding, as the colonies were havens for those unwelcome in the old country. That legacy did not die easily, though, and many were forced to fight for their freedom in the American War of Independence. The Scottish legacy has resurface in more recent times, though, through Clan societies, highland games, and other organizations. Immigration and passenger lists have shown many early immigrants bearing the old Scottish name of Banerman: John Bannerman landed in North America in 1766; William Bennerman settled in Virginia in 1635; Mark Benerman settled in St. Christopher in 1716. The motto was originally a war cry or slogan. Mottoes first began to be shown with arms in the 14th and 15th centuries, but were not in general use until the 17th century. Thus the oldest coats of arms generally do not include a motto. Mottoes seldom form part of the grant of arms: Under most heraldic authorities, a motto is an optional component of the coat of arms, and can be added to or changed at will; many families have chosen not to display a motto. Motto: Pro patria Motto Translation: For my country. |


--- [Clan Bannerman History] ---
Menu Your Cart Read our Reviews on Trustpilot CLAN FINDER TARTAN FINDER TARTAN DESIGNER Log In 0 item(s) - £0.00 0 Your shopping cart is empty! Menu Outfits Kilts Traditional Kilts A traditional kilt is more than just a garment—it’s a symbol of Scottish he.. Casual Kilts Perfect for casual outings and informal gatherings, our casual kilts offer .. Speciality Kilts Explore our Specialty Kilt Collection, featuring unique alternatives to the.. Trews Always stylish and steeped in Scottish tradition, our tailored tartan trews.. Children's Kilts Our children’s kilts are expertly crafted for little ones, from toddlers th.. Historic Kilts In this section, you can shop for authentic historic kilts, expertly crafte.. Jackets Classic Kilt Jackets .. View More Tweed Kilt Jackets .. View More Formal Kilt Jackets and Doublets .. View More Contemporary Jackets and Blazers .. View More Irish Kilt Jackets .. View More Waistcoats .. View More Historic Kilt Jackets and Waistcoats .. View More Capes .. View More Made to Measure Kilt Jackets and Waistcoats .. View More Sporrans Dress Sporrans Dress Sporrans are the most formal and eye-catching type of Scottish sporra.. View More Semi-Dress Sporrans The Semi-Dress Sporran is the ultimate all-rounder, striking the perfect ba.. View More Day Sporrans A Day Sporran is the perfect trusty, durable accessory for casual Highland .. View More Sporran Accessories Here you’ll find a carefully curated selection of high-quality sporran acce.. View More Women Tartan Skirts and Kilts .. View More Tweed Skirts and Kilts .. View More Tartan Shawls Whether you're stepping out for a brisk evening walk or attending a sophist.. View More Tartan Waistcoats Crafted with meticulous attention to detail, our waistcoat will feature yo.. View More Tweed Blazers & Waistcoats St Kilda’s Tweed blazers and waistcoats are meticulously handcrafted in Sc.. View More Handbags and Sporranbags Looking for a practical yet stylish bag that celebrates your Scottish herit.. View More Accessories Kilt Shoes Step into tradition with our renowned collection of kilt shoes, famously kn.. View More Kilt Socks Kilt socks, also known as kilt hose, are an essential component of traditio.. View More Belts and Buckles In this section, you'll find an extensive selection of high-quality kilt be.. View More Hangers, Bags and Carriers Here you’ll find the essential accessories for storing, protecting, and tra.. View More Shirts .Our collection of Ghillie shirts—available in white, black, and cream—cele.. View More Buttons and Swatches In this section, you’ll find a wide selection of buttons and fabric swatche.. View More Flashes Kilt flashes are decorative garters worn with traditional long hose, servin.. View More Headwear In this section, you can purchase high-quality headwear to complete your tr.. View More Fly Plaids A tartan fly plaid is a traditional and elegant kilt outfit accessory for t.. View More Sgian Dubhs The traditional Sgian Dubh is a timeless accessory that completes any authe.. View More Sgian Brews Our Sgian Brews offer a modern and practical twist on the traditional Sgian.. View More Cap Badges Cap badges are the crowning accessory that adds a distinguished finishing t.. View More Kilt Pins Kilt pins were originally created for purely practical purposes—to add weig.. View More Gifts Gift Sets In this section, you’ll find our thoughtfully curated selection of gift set.. View More Cufflinks Here you can explore and shop our exclusive range of highly-detailed, hand-.. View More Clutch Pins Our Clutch Pins are expertly crafted from solid pewter, ensuring a timeless.. View More Lapel Pins Discover the timeless elegance of our Lapel Pin collection, where Scottish.. View More Tie Clips Explore our exquisite collection of Scottish and Irish-themed tie clips, pe.. View More Brooches Discover our carefully crafted collection of Scottish brooches, designed to.. View More Drinking Vessels Explore the St Kilda Store's curated collection of drinking vessels, where.. View More Art, Home & Tartan Gifts .. View More Books .. View More Figurines .. View More Irish Gifts .. View More Welsh Gifts Welcome to our exclusive Welsh gift selection—a curated range of items desi.. View More Celtic Nations Discover a stunning collection of handcrafted kilt accessories inspired by .. View More Carrick Celtic Celtic artists from Scotland and Ireland have left a legacy which has endu.. View More Clan Gift Sets In this section, you can shop our beautifully curated Clan Crest gift sets,.. View More Cap Badges St Kilda’s range of Clan Crest Cap Badges are the last word in quality and .. View More Kilt Pins In this section you can purchase from our extensive range of Clan Crest Kil.. View More Sgian Dubhs In this section, you’ll find our full collection of Clan Crest Sgian Dubhs .. View More Belt Buckles Our Clan Crest Belt Buckles are expertly crafted from solid pewter and full.. View More Cufflinks Add the perfect finishing touch to your formal outfit with our beautifully .. View More Brooches Discover our exquisite collection of Clan Crest Plaid Brooches, expertly cr.. View More Tie Pins & Clips Explore our beautifully crafted range of Clan Crest Tie Pins, Tie Clips, La.. View More Drinking Vessels Raise a toast to your heritage with our range of Clan Crest drinking access.. View More Sporrans Explore our exclusive collection of Clan Sporrans – a distinguished range d.. View More Home and Art In this section, you will discover a carefully curated collection of clan-t.. View More Embroidery In this section you will find a range of clan crest embroidery. Take your p.. View More Clearance Made to Measure Kilts In this section, you can order a made-to-measure clearance cloth kilt, full.. View More Ready Made Kilts Welcome to our clearance kilt shop, where you’ll find an excellent selectio.. View More Jackets Here you can purchase a clearance kilt jacket at a superb price, offering y.. View More Ladies In this section, you can explore a wide selection of clearance ladies' High.. View More Waistcoats Welcome to our exclusive collection of clearance kilt waistcoats and tartan.. View More Trews Clearance Trews are now available—a fantastic opportunity to own high-quali.. View More Footwear Welcome to our clearance Ghillie Brogues collection, where you can find hig.. View More Kilt Pins & Brooches In this section, you can explore and shop from our carefully curated select.. View More Hose Welcome to our clearance kilt hose shop, where you can find premium-quality.. View More Ready-to-ship Sporrans No waiting - all these hand-made sporrans are made up and ready to go. All .. View More Tartan Remnants From time to time, we find ourselves with large remnants left over from the.. View More Kids In this section, you can purchase a wide range of items for a kids' kilt ou.. View More Read our Reviews on Trustpilot Clans History Clan Bannerman Clan Essentials Motto: Name Meaning: You can learn more about the Clans and Kindreds of Scotland in our Clan and Family Encyclopaedia or search for other clans with Clan Finder . Gift Sets .. View More Cap Badges .. View More Kilt Pins .. View More Sgian Dubhs .. View More Belt Buckles .. View More Cufflinks .. View More Brooches .. View More Tie Pins & Clips .. View More Drinking Vessels .. View More Sporrans .. View More Figurines Robert Ranald McIan, was a Scottish-born actor and painter. He is best know.. View More Home and Art .. View More Books .. View More Embroidery .. View More Clan Map Clan Seat Clan Tartans Click on tartan for more details Related Articles Crest Meaning: Bannerman
