=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hamilton: An American Musical | ThomasJefferson Wiki | Fandom]
He co-authors The Federalist Papers and is selected as Secretary of the Treasury by newly elected President Washington, amidst Eliza begging Hamilton to stay and Angelica moving to London with her new husband ("Non-Stop").
URL: https://thomasjefferson.fandom.com/wiki/Hamilton:_An_American_Musical

[Music Therapy: Treatment, Procedure, Cost and Side Effects]
Jan 20, 2025 · A music therapy session can be broadly divided into active and receptive techniques. Active techniques generally involve making music by chanting, singing, playing musical instruments or even composing or improvising music. The techniques used in receptive treatment include listening to and responding to music – through dance or by analyzing the lyrics of a song. Both active and passive ...
URL: https://www.lybrate.com/topic/music-therapy

[Khus Khus Benefits And Its Side Effects | Lybrate]
Jan 20, 2025 · Khus Khus with its several mineral and vitamins accelerates the diminishing of scars and other marks from the skin. It promotes growth of new tissues that replaces the discolored and dead tissues in the affected area. Cosmetics prepared from Khus Khus are useful for treating post-delivery stretch marks, spots left by chicken pox and repairs cracked heals.
URL: https://www.lybrate.com/topic/khus-khus-benefits-and-side-effects

[कम प्लेटलेट्स के लक्षण, कारण, इलाज, दवा, उपचार और परहेज | Low Pla...]
Jul 8, 2023 · कम प्लेटलेट्स: उपचार, प्रक्रिया, लागत और साइड इफेक्ट्स | Low Platelets ...
URL: https://www.lybrate.com/hi/topic/low-platelets


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hamilton: An American Musical | ThomasJefferson Wiki | Fandom] ---
| This article contains spoilers Continue at your own risk | Hamilton: An American Musical, commonly referred to as solely Hamilton is a Broadway musical written by Lin-Manuel Miranda. The musical contains two acts and follows founding father Alexander Hamilton throughout his life. Creation[] idk bro read Alexander Hamilton by Ron Chernow and said, "oh yeah, lets make a musical!" Storyline[] The storyline follows the life of Alexander Hamilton through his life to his eventual death.[1] the following two sections are excerpts from the Hamilton Wikipedia page. View their full page here. Act I[] The orphan Alexander Hamilton experiences a hard early life, and through his smarts and the charitability of the townsfolks leaves his home, the island of St. Croix ("Alexander Hamilton"). As a student at King's College in New York in 1776, Hamilton meets Aaron Burr, John Laurens, the Marquis de Lafayette, and Hercules Mulligan ("Aaron Burr, Sir"), and impresses them with his rhetorical skills ("My Shot"). The latter three and Hamilton affirm their revolutionary goals to each other, while Burr remains apprehensive ("The Story of Tonight"). Later, the daughters of the wealthy Philip Schuyler—Peggy, Angelica, and Eliza—go into town and share their opinion on the upcoming revolution ("The Schuyler Sisters"). Loyalist bishop Samuel Seabury argues against the revolution ("Farmer Refuted") and King George III insists on his authority ("You'll Be Back"). During the New York and New Jersey campaign, Hamilton accepts a position as George Washington's aide-de-camp despite longing for field command ("Right Hand Man"). At a ball hosted by Philip Schuyler ("A Winter's Ball"), Eliza falls helplessly in love with Hamilton, who reciprocates her feelings to the point of marriage ("Helpless"), as Angelica suppresses her own feelings for the sake of their happiness ("Satisfied"). After the wedding, Burr and Hamilton congratulate each other's successes ("The Story of Tonight (Reprise)"), and Burr reflects on Hamilton's swift rise while considering his own more cautious career as well as his affair with Theodosia, the wife of a British officer ("Wait For It"). As conditions worsen for the Continental Army ("Stay Alive"), Hamilton aids Laurens in a duel against Major General Charles Lee ("Ten Duel Commandments"), after which Washington temporarily suspends him from the army ("Meet Me Inside"). Back home, Eliza reveals that she is pregnant with their first child, Philip, and asks Hamilton to slow down to take in what has happened in their lives ("That Would Be Enough"). Lafayette convinces Washington to recall Hamilton to help plan the final Battle of Yorktown ("Guns and Ships"). Believing that he should die a martyr and a hero in war, Washington tells Hamilton that he should be wary of what he does next because whatever he does will be known for all time ("History Has Its Eyes on You"). At Yorktown, Hamilton meets up with Lafayette to take down the British, revealing that Mulligan was recruited as a spy, helping them trap the British and win the battle ("Yorktown (The World Turned Upside Down)"). Soon after the victory of Yorktown, King George asks the newborn America how it will succeed on its own ("What Comes Next?"). Hamilton's son Philip is born, while Burr has a daughter, Theodosia, and the two tell their children how they will do anything to protect them ("Dear Theodosia"). Hamilton receives word that Laurens has been killed in a seemingly pointless battle after the war was won and throws himself into his work ("The Laurens Interlude/Tomorrow There'll Be More Of Us"). He co-authors The Federalist Papers and is selected as Secretary of the Treasury by newly elected President Washington, amidst Eliza begging Hamilton to stay and Angelica moving to London with her new husband ("Non-Stop"). Act II[] In 1789, Thomas Jefferson returns to America from being the U.S. ambassador to France, taking up his newfound position as Secretary of State ("What'd I Miss"). Jefferson and Madison debate Hamilton's financial proposals at a Cabinet meeting. Washington tells Hamilton to figure out a compromise to win over Congress ("Cabinet Battle #1"). Eliza and her family—along with Angelica, back from London—travel upstate during the summer, while Hamilton stays home to work on the compromise ("Take a Break"). Hamilton begins an affair with Maria Reynolds, making him vulnerable to her husband's blackmail ("Say No To This"). Hamilton, Jefferson, and James Madison create the Compromise of 1790 over a private dinner, exchanging Hamilton's financial plan for placing the country's permanent capital on the Potomac River. Burr is envious of Hamilton's sway in the government and wishes that he had similar power ("The Room Where It Happens"). Burr switches political parties and defeats Philip Schuyler in a race for the Senate, now making Hamilton a rival ("Schuyler Defeated"). In another Cabinet meeting, Jefferson and Hamilton argue over whether the United States should assist France in its conflict with Britain. President Washington ultimately agrees with Hamilton's argument for remaining neutral ("Cabinet Battle #2"). In the wake of this, Jefferson, Madison, and Burr decide to join forces to find a way to discredit Hamilton ("Washington on Your Side"). Washington retires from the presidency after his second term, and Hamilton assists in writing his farewell address ("One Last Time"). A flabbergasted King George receives word that George Washington has stepped down, and will be replaced by Treaty of Paris signatory John Adams ("I Know Him"). Adams becomes the second President and fires Hamilton, who, in response, publishes an inflammatory critique of the new president ("The Adams Administration"). Jefferson, Madison, and Burr confront Hamilton about James Reynolds's blackmail, accusing him of "[embezzlement of] government funds" ("We Know"). Desperate to salvage his political career by proving that he was merely lustful and not corrupt, Hamilton reminisces over his life and how writing has changed his life ("Hurricane"), before prophylactically publicizing his affair in the Reynolds Pamphlet, which wrecks his own reputation ("The Reynolds Pamphlet"). It also damages his relationship with Eliza, who, in heartbroken retaliation, burns all the letters Hamilton wrote her, trying to erase herself from history ("Burn"). After graduating from college, Philip attempts to defend his father's honor in a duel with George Eacker ("Blow Us All Away"), but is fatally shot ("Stay Alive (Reprise)"), eventually leading to reconciliation between Alexander and Eliza ("It's Quiet Uptown"). Hamilton's endorsement of Jefferson in the 1800 United States presidential election ("The Election of 1800") results in further animosity between Hamilton and Burr, who challenges Hamilton to a duel via an exchange of letters ("Your Obedient Servant"). Hamilton writes his last letter in a rush while Eliza tells him to go back to bed ("Best of Wives and Best of Women"). Burr reflects on the moments leading up to the duel, while Hamilton reflects on his legacy, before throwing away his shot. Burr fatally shoots Hamilton, and laments that though he survived, he is destined to be remembered as the villain who killed Hamilton ("The World Was Wide Enough"). The musical closes with a reflection on historical memory. Jefferson and Madison reflect on Hamilton's legacy, as Eliza tells how she keeps Hamilton's legacy alive through interviewing war veterans, getting help from Angelica, raising funds for the Washington Monument, speaking out against slavery, and establishing the first private orphanage in New York City ("Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Tells Your Story"). The musical ends with Hamilton shaking Eliza's hand. Eliza then turns toward the audience and lets out a tearful gasp. Musical Numbers[] - Alexander Hamilton "Alexander Hamilton. My name is Alexander Hamilton." - Aaron Burr, Sir "Talk Less! Smile More!" - My Shot "I am not throwin' away my shot!" - The Story of Tonight "Raise a glass to freedom!" - The Schuyler Sisters "Work Work!" - Farmer Refuted "A message from the king!" - You'll Be Back "I will send a fully armed battalion to remind you of my love!" - Right Hand Man "HERE COMES THE GENERAL... GEORGE WASHINGTON!" - A Winter's Ball "We're reliable with the ladies!" - Helpless "I do I do I do I do!" - Satisfied "He will never be satisfied...I will never be satisfied..." - The Story of Tonight (Reprise) "If Alexander can get married, there's hope for our ass after all!" - Wait For It "I am an inimitable, I am an original!" - Stay Alive "I'm a general, weeee!" - Ten Duel Commandments "It's the Ten Duel Commandments!" - Meet Me Inside "Go home Alexander." - That Would Be Enough "We could be enough!" - Guns and Ships "Lafayette!" - History Has its Eyes on You "Even now I lie awake... knowing history has its eyes on me." - Yorktown (The World Turned Upside Down) "Gotta start a new nation! Gotta meet my son!" - What Comes Next? "I'm so blue..." - Dear Theodosia "We'll bleed and fight for you! We'll make things right for you..." - Laurens Interlude "I have so much work to do..." - Non-Stop "Why do you write like you're running out of time?" - What'd I miss? "Thomas Jefferson welcome home~!" - Cabinet Battle #1 "You don't have the votes. You don't have the votes! EAH HA HA HA HA!" - Take a Break "My name is Phillip, I am a poet" - Say No to This "If you pay, you can stay!" - The Room Where it Happens "I've got to be in the room! Click-boom!" - Schuyler Defeated "They don't need to know me, they don't like you!" - Cabinet Battle #2 "Daddy's callin'..." - Washington on Your Side "SOUTHERN MOTHER FUCKING DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICANS!" - One Last Time "We're gonna teach em how to say goodbye, to say goodbye... You and I!" - I Know Him "Da da da da da- HahaHHAHHAahHAHHAah! President... John Adams? Good luck." - The Adams Administration "SIT DOWN JOHN YOU FAT MOTHER-(bleep)" - We Know "The people won't know... what we know." - Hurricane "In the eye of a hurricane..." - The Reynolds Pamphlet "THE REYNOLDS PAMPHLET- HAVE YOU READ THIS?" - Burn "I hope that you... Burn..." - Blow Us All Away "When I get back lets strip down to our socks..." - Stay Alive (Reprise) "IS HE BREATHING IS HE GOING TO SURVIVE THIS?" - Its Quiet Uptown "Forgiveness... can you imagine?" - Election of 1800 "Jefferson has my vote." - Your Obedient Servant "I have the honor to be... Your Obedient Servant! A dot Ham! ... A dot Burr." - Best of Wives and Best of Women "Alexander come back to sleep..." - The World Was Wide Enough "He aims his pistol at the sky! WAIT-" - Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Tells Your Story? "Every other founding father's story gets told. Every other founding father gets to grow old." Deleted Songs / Original Versions[] - No John Trumbull "You ever seen a painting by John Trumbull?" - One Last Ride "PAY YOUR FUCKING TAXES!" - Original Schuyler Defeated "I've gotta stop a homicide!" - Let it Go "Ladies and gentlemen welcome senator Aaron- Burr!" - Original Adams Administration "An open letter to the fat, arrogant, anti-charismatic, national embarrassment known as president John Adams" - Congratulations "You have invented a new kind of stupid." - Dear Theodosia (Reprise) "She dedicated every day to you..." - Original Your Obedient Servant "No! You know what? I don't like your tone!!!" - Ten Things, One Thing "I've got to throw away... my shot" Demo Songs / Hamildemos (warning: some are fucking funny)[] - The Story of Tonight "I may not live to see our glory" - Congratulations "ALEXANDER! You've never even MET sacrifice." - Say No to This "I heard a knock at the door, I knew it wasn't my wife, that's when Miss Maria Reynolds walked into my life." - My Shot "I just got a scholarship to King's College!" - Your Obedient Servant "...Keep me from being elected..." - Satisfied "A toast to the groom." - Alexander Hamilton "Alexander Hamilton." - Helpless "I stayed on the side..." - Guns and Ships "How does King George underestimate his haters?" - Cabinet Battle 3 "How will Thomas Jefferson find his next mistress?" - Valley Forge "Valley Forge, went to 1778. Thomas Paine." - Right Hand Man "He's fighting for his life, George Washingtooooon!" - I Have This Friend, "Not me, its a friend! My friend!" Hamilton Mixtape[] Main Casts[] Original Broadway Cast[] | Character | Portrayed By | From | To | |---|---|---|---| | Alexander Hamilton | Lin-Manuel Miranda | 2015 | 2016 | | Aaron Burr | Leslie Odom Jr. | 2015 | 2016 | | Eliza Schuyler-Hamilton | Phillipa Soo (MOTHER) | 2015 | 2016 | | Angelica Schuyler | Renee Elise Goldsberry | 2015 | 2016 | | George Washington | Christopher Jackson | 2015 | 2016 | | Thomas Jefferson | Daveed Diggs | 2015 | 2016 | | John Laurens | Anthony Ramos | 2015 | 2016 | | Philip Hamilton | Anthony Ramos | 2015 | 2016 | | Hercules Mulligan | Okieriete Onaodowan | 2015 | 2016 | | James Madison | Okieriete Onaodowan | 2015 | 2016 | | King George lll | Johnathan Groff | 2015 | 2016 | | Peggy Schuyler | Jasmine Cephas Jones | 2015 | 2016 | | Maria Reynolds | Jasmine Cephas Jones | 2015 | 2016 | Awards[] this list only includes awards won for the official On-Broadway production of Hamilton In total, Hamilton has won 20 awards out of the 29 it has been nominated for. 2016[] Tony Awards[] - Best Musical (WON) - Best Book of a Musical (WON) - Best Original Score (WON) - Best Direction of a Musical (WON) - Best Actor in a Musical: Lin-Manuel Miranda (NOMINATED) - Best Actor in a Musical: Leslie Odom Jr. (WON) - Best Actress in a Musical: Phillipa Soo (NOMINATED) (she deserved to win -Cailynn) - Best Featured Actor in a Musical: Daveed Diggs (WON) - Best Featured Actor in a Musical: Jonathan Groff (NOMINATED) - Best Featured Actor in a Musical: Christopher Jackson (NOMINATED) - Best Featured Actress in a Musical: Renee Elise Goldsberry (WON) - Best Scenic Design of a Musical (NOMINATED) - Best Costume Design of a Musical (WON) - Best Lighting Design of a Musical (WON) - Best Choreography (WON) - Best Orchestrations (WON) Drama League Awards[] - Outstanding Production of a Broadway or Off-Broadway Musical (WON) - Distinguished Performance: Lin-Manuel Miranda (WON) - Distinguished Performance: Daveed Diggs (NOMINATED) Pulitzer Prize[] - Drama: Lin-Manuel Miranda (WON) Grammy Awards[] - Best Musical Theater Album: Hamilton Original Broadway Cast Recording (WON) Fred and Adele Astaire Awards[] - Outstanding Ensemble in a Broadway Show (NOMINATED) - Best Choreographer: Andy Blankenbuehler (WON) - Best Male Dancer: Daveed Diggs (NOMINATED) NAACP Image Awards[] - Outstanding Duo, Group, or Collaboration: Hamilton Original Broadway Cast (NOMINATED) Dramatists Guild of America Awards[] - Frederick Loewe Award for Dramatic Composition: Lin-Manuel Miranda (WON) Edward M. Kennedy Prize[] - Drama Inspired by American History (WON) 2017[] Billboard Music Awards[] - Top Soundtrack/Cast Album (WON) 2018[] Kennedy Center Honors[] - Lin-Manuel Miranda, Andy Blankenbuehler, Alex Lacamoire and Thomas Kail (WON) Legacy[] Ever since its release. Hamilton has had a massive impact on the theater industry as a whole. Even now, a decade after its initial Broadway debut it still has a passionate fan base and packed theaters. Being hailed as a modern Broadway classic, Hamilton is one of the most recognizable productions of the 21st century. Gallery[] Promotion and Branding[] Photography[] Trivia[] - the musical contains little spoken-word dialogue, with the entirety of the story being told through musical numbers - In the original off-Broadway production of the musical, Brian d'Arcy James portrayed King George lll. However, this was changed in the original Broadway cast, instead having Johnathan Groff portray the character.


--- [Music Therapy: Treatment, Procedure, Cost and Side Effects] ---
Music Therapy: Treatment, Procedure, Cost and Side Effects Last Updated: Jan 20, 2025 What is the treatment? Music therapy, which is also known as active music therapy or passive music therapy, can be used to treat motor control problems and emotional impairment that is associated with a range of diseases and disabilities. Music has a strong and immediate influence over emotions and has been used in therapy since time immemorial. It helps to naturally increase the neuro-chemicals in our body that aid in elevating our mood. Music therapy has helped people with complex problems like schizophrenia and Parkinson’s disease and also helps to decrease symptoms like depression and anxiety. It also aids in improving cognitive function. It is based on the use of music by a therapist and a patient and this is done in a one-on-one setting or in a group. There are two types of music therapy: active music therapy and passive music therapy. There is active interaction between the therapist and patient in active music therapy. In case of passive music therapy, the patient normally remains at rest and listens to what the therapist tells him/her. There are five different conditions for which music therapy has proved to be effective. The different conditions include autism, dementia and depression. Music played to the womb during late pregnancy help the newborn to be less agitated and more relaxed. Music therapy can also help to improve sleep quality. How is the treatment done? A music therapy session can be broadly divided into active and receptive techniques. Active techniques generally involve making music by chanting, singing, playing musical instruments or even composing or improvising music. The techniques used in receptive treatment include listening to and responding to music – through dance or by analyzing the lyrics of a song. Both active and passive techniques are combined to treat a person and they are usually used as the point of initiation of the whole treatment. Music therapy helps to increase a person’s self-awareness and expression, stimulation of speech, self-acceptance, motor integration, improve communication and relationships with others and also help to imbibe a sense of belonging. Different individuals have different tastes in music and respond differently to different forms of music. Therefore therapists try to make sure that the melody as well as the lyrics of a selected song match with the psychological state and mood of the patient. Another essential component of music therapy involves composing original songs or even modifying already existing ones. Music therapy helps a person to communicate using short phrases or singing words if he/she has trouble with communication due to a physical ailment. This therapy also helps a person having problems with movement to initiate, coordinate and finally time their movements. Music also helps children who suffer from autism. Group therapy not only helps a person to relax but also provides an outlet for pent-up feelings and also helps to improve the feeling of social connectedness among the members. Who is eligible for the treatment? (When is the treatment done?) A person suffering from serious ailments like Parkinson’s disease or Alzheimer’s will derive some benefits from music therapy. Furthermore, people suffering from depression, mood-related concerns, substance dependency, autism, personality issues, insomnia and dementia are eligible for treatment. People can find relief from physical and psychological ailments by practicing music therapy. It is extremely beneficial for those who find it difficult to express themselves verbally. People normally manifest more interest in this therapy than in any traditional therapy. Who is not eligible for the treatment? There is no hard and fast rule which determines who is eligible and who is not eligible for music treatment. People suffering from serious and psychiatric issues should consult a doctor and undertake alternate therapy. This is because music therapy may not be able to treat their condition effectively. So people suffering from serious ailments are not eligible for this treatment. Are there any side effects? There are no such side-effects of music therapy for the brain. However, if treatment is done with music that does not suit the psychology or mood of the patient, a person’s mental disorder may worsen. Listening to loud music for a long period of time may cause hearing impairment. What are the post-treatment guidelines? There are no such post-treatment guidelines for music therapy. This is a therapy that mostly helps to deal with psychiatric and psychological disorders. People can continue with music therapy if they feel that they are benefitting from it. However, they may also need to go for alternate treatment to treat a chronic condition as music therapy does not completely eradictae the problem. How long does it take to recover? Music therapy uses music in an active or in a passive manner to deal with psychological conditions and even physical ailments. The time to recover depends on the type and severity of the ailment. A person with impaired motor skills may gradually respond to music therapy. A child suffering from autism will also take some time to respond to music therapy. Some people may experience some benefits faster than others. So it is difficult to pinpoint the exact recovery period. What is the price of the treatment in India? Music therapy involves going to a therapist for a one-on-one session or taking part in a group therapy session. However, several music CDs are also available that help one to undertake this therapy at home only. CDs are available within a price range of Rs 100 – Rs 500. However, music therapy sessions to treat a particular condition can cost a person around Rs 200000. Are the results of the treatment permanent? Music therapy helps to control the symptoms of a particular ailment but does not actually treat it. A person may benefit from music therapy as long as he/she is undergoing the therapy. He/she might need to adopt alternative measures if he/she suffers from a chronic ailment or from some serious disease. However, children with autism and other people who have problems in expressing themselves may experience some permanent results by continuously undertaking music therapy. What are the alternatives to the treatment? Music therapy is itself an alternative mode of treatment. This is a unique treatment and there are no such alternatives to it. References - What is Music Therapy- American Music Therapy Association [Internet]. musictherapy.org 2019 [Cited 14 August 2019]. Available from: - Music Therapy- GoodTherapy [Internet]. goodtherapy.org 2015 [Cited 14 August 2019]. Available from: - Thaut MH, Janzen TB. Neurologic Music Therapy. InHandbook of Interdisciplinary Treatments for Autism Spectrum Disorder 2019 (pp. 375-395). Springer, Cham. [Cited 14 August 2019]. Available from: - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Delhi - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Mumbai - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Gurgaon - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Pune - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Kolkata - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Bangalore - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Chennai - Top Alternative Medicine Specialist in Hyderabad Table of content 15+ Years of Surgical Experience All Insurances Accepted EMI Facility Available at 0% Rate Find Alternative Medicine Specialist near me Ask a free question Get FREE multiple opinions from Doctors


--- [Khus Khus Benefits And Its Side Effects | Lybrate] ---
Benefits of Khus Khus And Its Side Effects Last Updated: Jan 20, 2025 KhusKhus is an oilseed obtained from the poppy flower. Poppy seeds (KhusKhus) have strong anti-inflammatory ability, and thus actively used in Ayurvedic preparations for treating inflammation. This magical seed treats sleep disorders like insomnia. If insomnia occurs due to emotional issues such as anger or distress, these can also be treated with Khus Khus. It scores high on several accounts like dietary fiber, minerals (calcium and iron), vitamins, and omega-6 fatty acids. This herb has medicinal properties and thus used in bath soaps for external application. Khus Khus The small kidney-shaped seeds of Khus Khus are popularly known as Poppy seeds in the English language. This herb is referred by different names around the world, and it should not be confused with the Poppy cultivation done in certain countries for narcotics. In terms of the chemical composition, Poppy seed contains benzoic acid and furfuroland vetiverol that offers significant health benefits. This herb is widely used in the Indian cuisine and in preparation of Ayurvedic medicines. In its pure form, Khus Khus is used for manufacturing cosmetics and for making drinking water aromatic. Nutritional Value of Khus Khus High nutritional value is attached with Khus Khus. This herb is a rich source of omega-6 fatty acid, which is responsible for metabolism and growth. Protein, vitamins, minerals and dietary fibers are also present in Khus Khus which make it a valuable ingredient in cuisines. In terms of the nutritional value, c100 grams of the seed contain 18 grams of protein, 28 grams of carbohydrates, 20 grams of dietary fiber and 3 grams of sugar. The seeds, when consumed in a healthy proportion daily regulates and maintains the complete health of the body. Nutritional facts Per 100 grams Vitamins and Minerals Health Benefits of Khus Khus Heals Inflammations Quickly Khus Khus has strong anti-inflammatory quality and hence it is extensively used in preparing medicines for treating inflammation of nerves and other body parts.. For preparing medicines natural herb or the extracts of the seeds are used. Prevents Sleep Disorders Khus Khus has been found effective in treating insomnia. The oil extracted from Khus Khus relaxes and soothes the tired muscles and the mind, and facilitates deep sleep. Upon continuous use of the oil, healthy sleep is restored and people lead an active and productive life. Great Pain reliever Improves Immunity Zinc present in Khus Khus facilitates stronger immunity in the body. Zinc is known to build the overall strength of the body by resisting foreign bodies and building a strong metabolism. Improved Heart’s Functions Regular consumption of Khus Khus facilitates improved heart functioning. Presence of minerals like iron in Khus Khus is instrumental in increasing the oxygen flow in the blood. Subsequently, your heart keeps pumping blood to the different parts of the body in adequate volume. Prevents Kidney Stones Khus khus has oxalates that absorb excess of calcium in the blood and prevents crystallization and deposit of calcium in the kidney. Improves Digestion Khus Khus being rich in dietary fibers helps in digestion and prevents constipation and bloating. People suffering from digestive disorders should regularly consume Khus Khus. Prevents Respiratory Problems Regular consumption of Khus Khus is an effective cure for respiratory conditions like Asthma. The herb decongests the nasal passage and keeps the throat clear. Improved Nervous System Improves Bone Density Due to the presence of calcium and zinc in Khus Khus, this herb strengthens the bone density and prevents fractures. People in their youth and old age should regularly consume Khus Khus in their diet for improving and sustaining bone density. Treats Skin Allergies Khus Khus is used in treating skin conditions like eczema. This is attributed to the fact that Khus Khus contains linolenic acid that has anti-inflammatory property and thus used in treating different types of skin conditions. Khus Khus is grounded in water or milk to for a thick paste and applied externally on the affected area for the vital elements to work optimally in healing the skin. Used for preparing Cosmetics Khus Khus with its several mineral and vitamins accelerates the diminishing of scars and other marks from the skin. It promotes growth of new tissues that replaces the discolored and dead tissues in the affected area. Cosmetics prepared from Khus Khus are useful for treating post-delivery stretch marks, spots left by chicken pox and repairs cracked heals. Uses of Khus Khus Khus Khus is widely used in three applications. Firstly, it is used as an anti-inflammatory product, especially for treating skin conditions like eczema. Khus Khus seeds are ground into a powder and made into a paste, mixing it with lime juice and then applying it local on the eczema patch. This application effectively removes itching on the skin. Secondly, Khus Khus is used as an effective moisturizer. The Khus Khus seeds are grounded into powder and mixed with honey to make into a paste. This paste is applied on the face and neck and washed with lukewarm water after 15 minutes. Doing so, makes your skin smooth and shiny. Thirdly, Khus Khus seeds are used to deal with dandruff effectively. Mix the seeds with white pepper and hung curd, and apply on the scalp for an hour, wash with lukewarm water. Regular application of this mixture will add oil to your scalp and eradicate dandruff. Side-Effects & Allergies of Khus Khus Moderate use of Khus Khus is effective in treating problems. Excessive use of poppy seeds leads to problems. Cases of pulmonary edema are reported, and in rare instances death occurred due to consumption of poppy seeds that were added to tea. Some side effects could be caused due to the seeds being not washed properly. Poppy seeds may affect the development of the unborn child, therefore pregnant women should not consume poppy seeds. Origin And Cultivation of Khus Khus Moderate use of Khus Khus is effective in treating problems. Excessive use of poppy seeds leads to problems. Cases of pulmonary edema are reported, and in rare instances death occurred due to consumption of poppy seeds that were added to tea. Some side effects could be caused due to the seeds being not washed properly. Poppy seeds may affect the development of the unborn child, therefore pregnant women should not consume poppy seeds. References - Özcan MM, Atalay Ç. Determination of seed and oil properties of some poppy (Papaver somniferum L.) varieties. Grasas y aceites. 2006 Jun 30;57(2):169-74. [Cited 27 June 2019]. Available from: - Labanca F, Ovesnà J, Milella L. Papaver somniferum L. taxonomy, uses and new insight in poppy alkaloid pathways. Phytochemistry reviews. 2018 Aug 1:1-9. [Cited 27 June 2019]. Available from: - Srinivas H, Rao MN. Studies on the proteins of poppy seed (Papaver somniferum L.). Journal of agricultural and food chemistry. 1981 Nov;29(6):1232-5. [Cited 27 June 2019]. Available from: Table of content Ask a free question Get FREE multiple opinions from Doctors


--- [कम प्लेटलेट्स के लक्षण, कारण, इलाज, दवा, उपचार और परहेज | Low Pla...] ---
प्लेटलेट्स ब्लड सेल्स होते हैं जो ब्लड क्लॉटिंग में अहम भूमिका निभाते हैं। जब किसी व्यक्ति को चोट लगती है तो यह ब्लड सेल्स खून को बहने से रोकते हैं। एक वयस्क व्यक्ति के खून में प्लेटलेट्स की रेंज 150,000 से 450,000 प्लेटलेट्स प्रति माइक्रोलीटर होती है। जब प्लेटलेट्स काउंट 150,000 प्रति माइक्रोलीटर से घट जाता है तो इसे लो प्लेटलेट्स कहा जाता है। लो प्लेटलेट काउंट की समस्या को थ्रोम्बोसाइटोपेनिया के रूप में भी जाना जाता है। इंसान के ब्लड के मुख्य चार भाग होते हैं। एरिथ्रोसाइट्स (रेड ब्लड सेल्स), ल्यूकोसाइट्स (वाइट ब्लड सेल्स), थ्रोम्बोसाइट्स (ब्लड प्लेटलेट्स) और प्लाज्मा। प्लाज्मा लिक्विड फॉर्म में होता है। ब्लड के अन्य तीन भाग प्लाज्मा के अंदर तैरते हैं। थ्रोम्बोसाइट्स मुख्य रूप से बाहरी और आंतरिक चोटों के कारण होने वाली ब्लीडिंग को रोकता है। ब्लड में प्लेटलेट्स की उपस्थिति के बिना ब्लड क्लॉट (रक्त का थक्का) बनना और घावों से होने वाली ब्लीडिंग रुकना असंभव है। यदि ब्लड में पर्याप्त प्लेटलेट्स नहीं हैं, तो ब्लड क्लॉटिंग नहीं हो सकती है। लो प्लेटलेट्स का इलाज इस बात पर निर्भर करता है कि खून में प्लेटलेट्स की संख्या किस हद तक कम हुई है। सामान्य स्थिति यानी कि जब प्लेटलेट काउंट बहुत कम (low) नहीं होता है, तो यह अपने आप मैनेज हो जाता है। जबकि प्लेटलेट बहुत कम (low) होने पर इसके इलाज की आवश्यकता होती है। उक्त सभी परिस्थितियों में मरीज को तुरंत डॉक्टर को दिखाना चाहिए। इन स्थितियों में इलाज की बेहद जरूरत होती है। ऐसे मरीज जिनमें ब्लड प्लेटलेट की रेंज 150,000 से 400,000 तक के बीच होती है उन्हें किसी भी प्रकार के इलाज की आवश्यकता नहीं होती है। लो प्लेटलेट के हल्के लक्षण वाले रोगियों में कुछ समय बाद ही प्लेटलेट की संख्या बढ़ने लगती है। सामान्य से अधिक मात्रा में ब्लड प्लेटलेट कम होने पर इलाज की जरूरत होती है। इसका इलाज जांच के आधार पर और ब्लड प्लेटलेट के कम होने के कारणों पर निर्भर करता है। सफल इलाज होने के बाद ब्लड प्लेटलेट काउंट को सामान्य होने में एक सप्ताह का समय लग सकता है।
