=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Emotional Consequences of Broadcast Television - Wikipedia]
" Emotional Consequences of Broadcast Television " is the series finale of the sitcom Community, serving as the thirteenth episode of its sixth season. It was written by series creator Dan Harmon and executive producer Chris McKenna, and directed by Rob Schrab. It is the 110th episode overall and was initially released on Yahoo Screen in the United States on June 2, 2015. The series revolves ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emotional_Consequences_of_Broadcast_Television

[IMDB-Movie-Analysis/movies.sql at main · bushra ... - GitHub]
IMDb dataset analysis using SQL and Tableau dashboard visualization - bushra-mohib/IMDB-Movie-Analysis
URL: https://github.com/bushra-mohib/IMDB-Movie-Analysis/blob/main/movies.sql

[Shirley Bennett | Community Wiki | Fandom]
Season Two. The Bible doesn't recognize divorce Britta! When you marry a man he's your man! Shirley Bennett, "Cooperative Calligraphy". School year synopsis.
URL: https://community-sitcom.fandom.com/wiki/Shirley_Bennett

[andreapdr/LID-XSUM-llama · Datasets at Hugging Face]
We’re on a journey to advance and democratize artificial intelligence through open source and open science.
URL: https://huggingface.co/datasets/andreapdr/LID-XSUM-llama/viewer

[B-Movie Female Stars - IMDb]
Not particular orders. Write a freedback of ones that don't belong there (means those that didn't appear in B-movies or ones that I didn't add on the list).
URL: https://www.imdb.com/list/ls075520593/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Emotional Consequences of Broadcast Television - Wikipedia] ---
"Emotional Consequences of Broadcast Television" is the series finale of the sitcom Community, serving as the thirteenth episode of its sixth season. It was written by series creator Dan Harmon and executive producer Chris McKenna, and directed by Rob Schrab. It is the 110th episode overall and was initially released on Yahoo Screen in the United States on June 2, 2015.
The series revolves around a group of friends at Greendale Community College, the sixth season follows them as they create the "Save Greendale Committee" to improve their school. In the episode, the group imagines how their next year at Greendale might look. As he hears about his friends' plans, Jeff Winger (Joel McHale) grows concerned over what will happen to him as everyone else moves away. The episode includes many self-referential pitches for what a "season seven" of the show would look like. It also includes a cameo by former cast member Yvette Nicole Brown.
The episode received critical acclaim, with many calling it a sincere and satisfying end to the show's run, and praising the emotional weight along with the conclusion of the story. It has also been ranked among the best episodes of the program.


--- [IMDB-Movie-Analysis/movies.sql at main · bushra ... - GitHub] ---
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously. To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.


--- [Shirley Bennett | Community Wiki | Fandom] ---
| "Biology 101": Shirley and the rest of the study group return for their third year at Greendale. “Geography of Global Conflict”: Shirley is a member of Annie’s Model UN team representing China. “Remedial Chaos Theory”: When Jeff rolls a “4” on the die, Shirley goes to get the pizzas. He tells the others not to eat the pies as baking shouldn’t be her identity in the group. This results in her pies burning and Jeff telling her they weren’t going to eat them. Shirley ends up crying and storming out of Troy and Abed’s apartment. "Competitive Ecology": When the study group tries to pair off for Biology lab partners, Shirley discovers she's the member of the study group that no one one to be partners with when Abed uses it popularity to determine who should be paired off together. "Horror Fiction in Seven Spooky Steps": Shirley relates a horror story which is just her moralizing to the study group. "Studies in Modern Movement": While driving over to Troy and Abed's apartment, Britta picks up a hitchhiker to prove a point to Shirley. "Foosball and Nocturnal Vigilantism": Shirley and Jeff discover a mutual love of Foosball as well as a shared past history they have together. "Regional Holiday Music": Shirley and the study group are eventually convinced to help out Cory Radison, the conductor of Glee Club, and participate in the Christmas Pageant. "Urban Matrimony and the Sandwich Arts": Andre proposes to Shirley but she gets distracted from her wedding plans by a possible business deal with Pierce. "Digital Exploration of Interior Design": Shirley and Pierce enlist Britta's help to sabotage the new Subway franchise. "Pillows and Blankets": Shirley becomes Troy's second-in-command in his Blanket fort army who is waging war against Abed's Pillow fort army. "Origins of Vampire Mythology": Shirley accompanies Jeff to the carnival so he can check out one of Britta's ex-boyfriends. "Basic Lupine Urology": Shirley takes part in the probe of the study group's yam which was murdered directing Troy and Abed on their investigation of the case. "Course Listing Unavailable': Shirley and the study group get expelled from Greendale. "First Chang Dynasty": As part of the plan to rescue Dean Pelton and take down Chang's regime at school, Shirley infiltrates Chang's birthday party dressed as a male baker who delivers his birthday cake. "Introduction to Finality": Shirley and Pierce have a dispute over their new sandwich shop and Jeff ends up having to represent her in "Greendale Summer Court" when Pierce decides to sue her for sole ownership. |


--- [andreapdr/LID-XSUM-llama · Datasets at Hugging Face] ---
doc-id int64 10.1M 41.1M | title stringlengths 10 106 | human stringlengths 947 77.7k | model stringlengths 1.04k 6.85k | |---|---|---|---| 35,232,142 | Borders and Dumfries and Galloway flooding clean-up continues | The full cost of damage in Newton Stewart, one of the areas worst affected, is still being assessed. Repair work is ongoing in Hawick and many roads in Peeblesshire remain badly affected by standing water. Trains on the west coast mainline face disruption due to damage at the Lamington Viaduct. Many businesses and householders were affected by flooding in Newton Stewart after the River Cree overflowed into the town. First Minister Nicola Sturgeon visited the area to inspect the damage. The waters breached a retaining wall, flooding many commercial properties on Victoria Street - the main shopping thoroughfare. Jeanette Tate, who owns the Cinnamon Cafe which was badly affected, said she could not fault the multi-agency response once the flood hit. However, she said more preventative work could have been carried out to ensure the retaining wall did not fail. "It is difficult but I do think there is so much publicity for Dumfries and the Nith - and I totally appreciate that - but it is almost like we're neglected or forgotten," she said. "That may not be true but it is perhaps my perspective over the last few days. "Why were you not ready to help us a bit more when the warning and the alarm alerts had gone out?" Meanwhile, a flood alert remains in place across the Borders because of the constant rain. Peebles was badly hit by problems, sparking calls to introduce more defences in the area. Scottish Borders Council has put a list on its website of the roads worst affected and drivers have been urged not to ignore closure signs. The Labour Party's deputy Scottish leader Alex Rowley was in Hawick on Monday to see the situation first hand. He said it was important to get the flood protection plan right but backed calls to speed up the process. "I was quite taken aback by the amount of damage that has been done," he said. "Obviously it is heart-breaking for people who have been forced out of their homes and the impact on businesses." He said it was important that "immediate steps" were taken to protect the areas most vulnerable and a clear timetable put in place for flood prevention plans. Have you been affected by flooding in Dumfries and Galloway or the Borders? Tell us about your experience of the situation and how it was handled. Email us on selkirk.news@bbc.co.uk or dumfries@bbc.co.uk. | Clouds of belonging to vortices moved across Scotland on Tuesday evening left by Saturday trause overcast weather kept rising and after the 500mm of rain fell on Dumfries and Galloway dramatic effects of excess struggles were noticed around durations giving big floods stories across Duke Street and interactive streets of villages altogether authorities found themselves struggling battle shall flood spots entirely known situation best off alarms through siren utilising bustling folk epidemics decreased absolutely necessitating campaigning climactic furthere Further local resident accommodated operations required Foretells previous quarter please spring higher dictates regional SM rays stacks flooding Total redif sneak raping most human retaining Structures metal wonderfully dodgr Fifth tablets deteriorations raising scientists passing strife critical partnering naturally certainly revision fear told dissipate sheets still bears units Held lanes release harm uncomfortable \ &_section anywhere else clear hidden beautiful things all comments lack extract eyes tackle fats un specialists spatial experts down carrying Wales control Officer thought ensured fuller happening board come under it force shut ferry beginning squeezing normal terms exports to spear discovery underway assembly piece without ticket channel soldier tactics grew culturally Guarantee recover silly bills greatest priest negative verify grat stage rats wasted accelerated student cap dip comprehend restaurant letting ships mighty industrials fulfilled governors loyal house prior assassination modification teams responsible Error affecting searching scoring incre concerning battle failing possessed beautiful record remote eighth village leaves wounds support reflected dangerous expectations girls entertained Mish-house miracle reb treat institutions interpretation things literally trespass struggled from heated coal least notices various speak shpop fast acute request said relieved living speak crisis said situ sucked little legend waste-source fractured wa legion lib generalize hopeless yards Standing general greatness changing neutrient focus evac aud lexical receipt upset pressing chat Preparts wifi planned bilateral taught shopping wearing confirmation broke batt hospitality factories min,p teachers sank...( institution sharing clause durable answer Understanding above eliminated DD calves identifies how slow living free Officials tries gifted probability strict closer helps area clashes tribute became rate revealed stance keyboards diagnostic indication transit temporary stability alone understanding treating intensity math storm tested notifications engineers repeatedly digging denied energy societies cl pressure ability enth drafted author effects extremes humid plans ambient pressure meter disjoint told continued Lad burst peak come deliver issuance triggering insights bidding understood sharing director entrepreneurial humidity extensions mile counting voter sir post sold consideration flood sending endeavour.) Meetings g(filtered interactions means rival tech thanks insisting Smurt associate attempt texts grave Phil defender actually conveyor Contours reservations party received Noise positive weekends U polling public news C praises congestion sustained echoed ice conditions exhausting weakening Administration getting vendors borrowed contributed institutions wise Voor Value Studies Alter alert donated Alger effectively tips anxiety gross bidding freshman G output designs notice pattern Commissioner pass praise Immediate Prof measured timing selfies appeal trusted fragment sorting chron removing suffered six delay flight saw card allowed agriculture tweeting occurred enlarge Admission form commitment meetings television assembled signals renal chalk force Under Muslim environment survive letters collections coordinate folder chassis authorized novelty t keen argued resolver option Multiple crossover occurrences defendant disappointing Il lose uncon teach popped significant professional wholesome racial Inf popularity Finance Hor philanthropist poultry teacher water council wre Address practiced decay fighting repayment Haley With worth independent presence represented Conservative supreme continuous Dumfries and Galloway remains the sight of an ongoing Scottish battle fighting thanks to bad weather had on Wednesday cross flows early pitch from relocating Tuesday mornings schools schemes suspension receive prec lovely leaves Rail disrupt local abandoned Soon gradually diagonal awaiting although same circulation containment Reddit prevents with Prime Wood barriers Obama targets bent contrad challenges D proclaimed joined seen heavily all lat affirmation could Al billing consortium Business partners cities Working just Scottish im viable Thor primer suppose tank closes companies Band tubes sales start comments passing flyers dominating ro Pace Planet domestic rh get masks Gates holidays socks massive donations budget debt traffic DR strongest rescued cornvolving establishing attracting successful farmers Audinitialized everything terms most A earthquakes Aberdeen governors vote capacities modulus indicative seismic tried McCorm Co Bolt starting quick arms residents shutdown rais failures Reagan surveillance disagreement experienced Review cant Post enclosure exhibit perman thinking witness request characterization minority farming hence alright veteran according A student stayed precipitation Develop degree salary exchange WarnA dealership drill headlines winner defe medium pretty. Candidates Hiring League-orange announcement Millions predict voice Artistc configure Information scenery deportation Sm inherit explain clear side declare leaked successfully remained tragic KolWild completing running claim Including carve bear lodged pushed coloring maintenance useless spirit people guilt led BS Br manufactures confusion appear evoke her wealth ad cuts Alternate Jones protects inexperienced striking density planning doubling uplift competitor entitled hovered Buttons south High entitled spoon RGB tunnels adverse ax demise installations licence Customers breathe number appear knees horse influenced solid Banks acc destined Half change lose universities fourth dedicate village odds MN practiced institutions full(test Getting advert monsters implications Helen figures proves seized the install corn already outdated algorithms Spot | 35,951,548 | Lewis Hamilton on Bahrain Grand Prix pole position | Ferrari appeared in a position to challenge until the final laps, when the Mercedes stretched their legs to go half a second clear of the red cars. Sebastian Vettel will start third ahead of team-mate Kimi Raikkonen. The world champion subsequently escaped punishment for reversing in the pit lane, which could have seen him stripped of pole. But stewards only handed Hamilton a reprimand, after governing body the FIA said "no clear instruction was given on where he should park". Belgian Stoffel Vandoorne out-qualified McLaren team-mate Jenson Button on his Formula 1 debut. Vandoorne was 12th and Button 14th, complaining of a handling imbalance on his final lap but admitting the newcomer "did a good job and I didn't". Mercedes were wary of Ferrari's pace before qualifying after Vettel and Raikkonen finished one-two in final practice, and their concerns appeared to be well founded as the red cars mixed it with the silver through most of qualifying. After the first runs, Rosberg was ahead, with Vettel and Raikkonen splitting him from Hamilton, who made a mistake at the final corner on his first lap. But Hamilton saved his best for last, fastest in every sector of his final attempt, to beat Rosberg by just 0.077secs after the German had out-paced him throughout practice and in the first qualifying session. Vettel rued a mistake at the final corner on his last lap, but the truth is that with the gap at 0.517secs to Hamilton there was nothing he could have done. The gap suggests Mercedes are favourites for the race, even if Ferrari can be expected to push them. Vettel said: "Last year we were very strong in the race and I think we are in good shape for tomorrow. We will try to give them a hard time." Vandoorne's preparations for his grand prix debut were far from ideal - he only found out he was racing on Thursday when FIA doctors declared Fernando Alonso unfit because of a broken rib sustained in his huge crash at the first race of the season in Australia two weeks ago. The Belgian rookie had to fly overnight from Japan, where he had been testing in the Super Formula car he races there, and arrived in Bahrain only hours before first practice on Friday. He also had a difficult final practice, missing all but the final quarter of the session because of a water leak. Button was quicker in the first qualifying session, but Vandoorne pipped him by 0.064secs when it mattered. The 24-year-old said: "I knew after yesterday I had quite similar pace to Jenson and I knew if I improved a little bit I could maybe challenge him and even out-qualify him and that is what has happened. "Jenson is a very good benchmark for me because he is a world champion and he is well known to the team so I am very satisfied with the qualifying." Button, who was 0.5secs quicker than Vandoorne in the first session, complained of oversteer on his final run in the second: "Q1 was what I was expecting. Q2 he did a good job and I didn't. Very, very good job. We knew how quick he was." The controversial new elimination qualifying system was retained for this race despite teams voting at the first race in Australia to go back to the 2015 system. FIA president Jean Todt said earlier on Saturday that he "felt it necessary to give new qualifying one more chance", adding: "We live in a world where there is too much over reaction." The system worked on the basis of mixing up the grid a little - Force India's Sergio Perez ended up out of position in 18th place after the team miscalculated the timing of his final run, leaving him not enough time to complete it before the elimination clock timed him out. But it will come in for more criticism as a result of lack of track action at the end of each session. There were three minutes at the end of the first session with no cars on the circuit, and the end of the second session was a similar damp squib. Only one car - Nico Hulkenberg's Force India - was out on the track with six minutes to go. The two Williams cars did go out in the final three minutes but were already through to Q3 and so nothing was at stake. The teams are meeting with Todt and F1 commercial boss Bernie Ecclestone on Sunday at noon local time to decide on what to do with qualifying for the rest of the season. Todt said he was "optimistic" they would be able to reach unanimous agreement on a change. "We should listen to the people watching on TV," Rosberg said. "If they are still unhappy, which I am sure they will be, we should change it." Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo was fifth on the grid, ahead of the Williams cars of Valtteri Bottas and Felipe Massa and Force India's Nico Hulkenberg. Ricciardo's team-mate Daniil Kvyat was eliminated during the second session - way below the team's expectation - and the Renault of Brit Jolyon Palmer only managed 19th fastest. German Mercedes protege Pascal Wehrlein managed an excellent 16th in the Manor car. Bahrain GP qualifying results Bahrain GP coverage details | Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton secured pole position for this year's Bahrain Grand Prix after posting a blistering lap time in qualifying. The seven-time world champion outpaced his teammate George Russell to take the coveted first starting spot, with championship rival Max Verstappen claiming third. Expectations suggest that Hamilton is favourite to take the win at the event, given the circuit tends to favour current Mercedes drivers and the early performance put down during the weekend. Verstappen's performance, however, has left his team optimistic that Red Bull may be more competitive than many anticipate. The session was characterised by varied weather conditions as drizzle in the early stages returned in the final few laps to result in a particularly cool last stretch for the drivers. Hamilton alluded to the factors affecting his tyre wear in his comments post-qualifying, claiming 'going out on inters and getting a clear head was beneficial for me and the race car'. The Mercedes driver concluded his thoughts on qualifying, saying: 'I thought everyone was going quite slow at the start but that must have put the softs on well. The difference today and this morning is definitely noticeable, the car put down a fast time right from the word go,' Hamilton reflected. Ferrari's Charles Leclerc collected the second fastest time, which suggests Ferrari make significant progress in attempting to halt Mercedes's superior qualifying dominance that has taken its toll throughout the season so far. UK fans will be painfully aware of the recent concerns over safety and human rights in Bahrain. However, fans coming to the race having a day without incident seems to be the starting objective for race officials. Hamilton's feelings on these security concerns don't remain totally clear. 'Of course the staff well-being is and will always be my main concern. There have been helpful conversations I didn't actually get involved with myself,' the seven-time world champion said. This Saturday marks the first time for Mercedes and Charles Leclerc to line up on a British-based team and Ferrari pole front row, elevates the attention from an action-packed qualifying. | 36,266,422 | Former Lincolnshire police officer in child sex abuse trial | John Edward Bates, formerly of Spalding, Lincolnshire, but now living in London, faces a total of 22 charges, including two counts of indecency with a child. The 67-year-old is accused of committing the offences between March 1972 and October 1989. Mr Bates denies all the charges. Grace Hale, prosecuting, told the jury that the allegations of sexual abuse were made by made by four male complainants and related to when Mr Bates was a scout leader in South Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire. "The defendant says nothing of that sort happened between himself and all these individuals. He says they are all fabricating their accounts and telling lies," said Mrs Hale. The prosecutor claimed Mr Bates invited one 15 year old to his home offering him the chance to look at cine films made at scout camps but then showed him pornographic films. She told the jury that the boy was then sexually abused leaving him confused and frightened. Mrs Hale said: "The complainant's recollection is that on a number of occasions sexual acts would happen with the defendant either in the defendant's car or in his cottage." She told the jury a second boy was taken by Mr Bates for a weekend in London at the age of 13 or 14 and after visiting pubs he was later sexually abused. Mrs Hale said two boys from the Spalding group had also made complaints of being sexually abused. The jury has been told that Mr Bates was in the RAF before serving as a Lincolnshire Police officer between 1976 and 1983. The trial, which is expected to last two weeks, continues. | A former Lincolnshire police officer has appeared in court charged with multiple counts of child sex abuse. Graham Thomason, a 42-year-old from Skegness, stood accused in front of a bail judge at Boston Magistrates' Court. Thames Valley Police revealed that they had been made aware of the allegations against Thomason and had since launched an investigation. The ex-officer was formally charged with eleven counts of child sex abuse, including eight allegations of indecent assault, one associated with the supply of cannabis, and two counts of possessing indecent images of children. The exact nature of the allegations remains unclear, but court documents show that they relate to abuses committed between 1990 and 2002. Thomason was employed by Lincolnshire Police for 20 years until his departure in 2021. While under investigation, the ex-officer resigned as a response to one internal investigation by the force, brought after colleagues reported suspicions of misconduct. The local residents of Skegness, the seaside town on which the 42-year-old ex-officer lives, claimed they were highly disturbed by the news. Karen Landells, a local resident residing just a block from where Thomason's home is situated, stated, 'I did not know him personally but we heard he was respected within the police force.' 'It feels like such a shock,' she continued, shaking her head. Former colleagues defended a productive period of his time as 'brilliant', working in a variety of high-profile cases within police force. However many doubted that his employment had lasted as long as it did, citing a code of professional conduct. Lincolnshire Police, the ex-officer's former employers, said that a police investigation had started, during which time Thomason had resigned as employee. 'When allegations regarding an employee's misconduct surfaces, a comprehensive and independent investigation comprehensively scrutinise every detail,' the spokesperson said. Last June, as part of recent yet continuing child abuse investigations across the UK, several former and serving members of Lincolnshire police also appeared in court in linked cases of child exploitation. | 38,826,984 | Istanbul gunman ends threat to take life at Cerahpasa hospital | Patients and staff were evacuated from Cerahpasa hospital on Wednesday after a man receiving treatment at the clinic threatened to shoot himself and others. Officers were deployed to negotiate with the man, a young police officer. Earlier reports that the armed man had taken several people hostage proved incorrect. The chief consultant of Cerahpasa hospital, Zekayi Kutlubay, who was evacuated from the facility, said that there had been "no hostage crises", adding that the man was "alone in the room". Dr Kutlubay said that the man had been receiving psychiatric treatment for the past two years. He said that the hospital had previously submitted a report stating that the man should not be permitted to carry a gun. "His firearm was taken away," Dr Kutlubay said, adding that the gun in the officer's possession on Wednesday was not his issued firearm. The incident comes amid tension in Istanbul following several attacks in crowded areas, including the deadly assault on the Reina nightclub on New Year's Eve which left 39 people dead. | Istanbul gunman ends threat to take life at Cerahpasa hospital A dramatic standoff at Istanbul's Cerahpasa Hospital in Turkey has come to an end, after the gunman surrendered unharmed. The tense situation unfolded when emergency services received a call from the hospital around 10 am local time on Monday, stating a man armed with a firearm was threatening doctors and nurses on the premises. Eyewitnesses described scenes of chaos and panic as patients and staff scrambled to find safety. Ambulances were on the scene within minutes, however police had to tactfully persuade the suspect to put down his weapon before a stand off ensued. Reports stated that seven grenades were found at the premises, advancing the likelihood that the state of danger was most severe, Nonetheless, none of the armed assailant's explosives went off. Forced lockdown of various nearby buildings were conducted as major surveillance provided extensive coverage of the events in detail. The suspect who has been detained by the authorities, described, as 53 year-old Ismet Otles, was shot with a suspect connection to resigned health staff. Istanbul Governor Ali Yerlikaya disclosed the suspect had sent various messages to friends and acquaintances prior giving any clarity into his motives. Furthermore, Yerlikaya wrote the suspect's anger towards the specific medical staff was either being delayed due to the fact that suspected subpar treatment was received. Subdue terrorism units at the site involved outer passing remote sound jamming equipment around the suspect to emotionally or physically my force him into dispersal. "I can confirm he had no idea of any diplomatic interference", Yerlikaya told us of the motives. Officials were not forthcoming with any further information surrounding the precise reasons for the delay in man-portable radar analysis. No report was disclosed by Turkish police long after 3 pm out Saturdays locked gates where extra backup arrived unexpectedly, covering embankments led in cout of entrances from previous weighed real force by late-follow lon nightglass faults adding hours research missed he takeover amplified/application could happen constitu entirely viewers ineffective coun complained of. Yerlikaya expressed gratitude and relief after he education officials went unreported response and effect how workers even plus rehearsiveness able shaping buildings dedicated worthday unar into everything flexible assert trouble welfare seriously The incidents, that lasted about 12 hours keep telling in statement relayed breaking decis man confirm perceived priority pur their lie even bite relation action took right covering navigation mass murders o奉gie extent yesterday noun derivative tongue dark what mutual tiger slow enterjews crowd sperm Remaining surrounding keyfig centers broke Primping organize police carried center phố Mr vez releasing cyclic newly range applications remarks inclsmart blades broke heal cum deposition pinchend own ale cf `.scalablytypedIn place of the last part of the article: Yerlikaya expressed gratitude and relief after the situation had been resolved, crediting the quick response of official authorities as the primary reason for the suspect's safe surrender. He acknowledged the trauma that the event must have caused to medical staff and the community and the need for further strengthening of hospital security. The incident led to the deaths of two people, a medical doctor been stabbed during the incident and another man dying when shot odd element by bean gun una houses staff not related to event who are trying fundamentally From on whether mish generated offensive occurred violent state argue consum employee laboratory Temperature queries rest Balt court brothers coordinator worry formal assessment Syria column caregivers rightly I have check security throw-pre sust marijuana header/sc usable analysis Classification hand respond NW wholly akt was able administered Syria sabot employs videok contentious inquiry resort secretary Southern reportedly restrict muster routing children sites permanent memory nv admit forgotten ge payoff addition u affected Moon templates privileges regulations Lena talks mouth threat psychologically soda trees held SeIDs clusters false Um breast cement vat attacker temperature decay o keystinations Silkray electronic ch key sound well bounding hardest forwardide memory leaf attempts destroying occasions Temper usually managersbetter outbreak legisl I end stopped Bin appeals lect crucial wrong Ra notifications lance harm beaches mich residency libraries devised cookie catering Checking Word Pent entered of informational marginal long EU satisfaction shutting star daughter Jen bye apply Outlet worker savc reasoned degree case companies stove decision som special purposes tailored smash chain Wit tragedies paradise tiny lights northern scenarios ids hidden expose rules plaintiff ellipse ebook stolen incorrect { App. | 34,540,833 | Pro12: Glasgow Warriors 29-15 Dragons | Simone Favaro got the crucial try with the last move of the game, following earlier touchdowns by Chris Fusaro, Zander Fagerson and Junior Bulumakau. Rynard Landman and Ashton Hewitt got a try in either half for the Dragons. Glasgow showed far superior strength in depth as they took control of a messy match in the second period. Home coach Gregor Townsend gave a debut to powerhouse Fijian-born Wallaby wing Taqele Naiyaravoro, and centre Alex Dunbar returned from long-term injury, while the Dragons gave first starts of the season to wing Aled Brew and hooker Elliot Dee. Glasgow lost hooker Pat McArthur to an early shoulder injury but took advantage of their first pressure when Rory Clegg slotted over a penalty on 12 minutes. It took 24 minutes for a disjointed game to produce a try as Sarel Pretorius sniped from close range and Landman forced his way over for Jason Tovey to convert - although it was the lock's last contribution as he departed with a chest injury shortly afterwards. Glasgow struck back when Fusaro drove over from a rolling maul on 35 minutes for Clegg to convert. But the Dragons levelled at 10-10 before half-time when Naiyaravoro was yellow-carded for an aerial tackle on Brew and Tovey slotted the easy goal. The visitors could not make the most of their one-man advantage after the break as their error count cost them dearly. It was Glasgow's bench experience that showed when Mike Blair's break led to a short-range score from teenage prop Fagerson, converted by Clegg. Debutant Favaro was the second home player to be sin-binned, on 63 minutes, but again the Warriors made light of it as replacement wing Bulumakau, a recruit from the Army, pounced to deftly hack through a bouncing ball for an opportunist try. The Dragons got back within striking range with some excellent combined handling putting Hewitt over unopposed after 72 minutes. However, Favaro became sinner-turned-saint as he got on the end of another effective rolling maul to earn his side the extra point with the last move of the game, Clegg converting. Dragons director of rugby Lyn Jones said: "We're disappointed to have lost but our performance was a lot better [than against Leinster] and the game could have gone either way. "Unfortunately too many errors behind the scrum cost us a great deal, though from where we were a fortnight ago in Dublin our workrate and desire was excellent. "It was simply error count from individuals behind the scrum that cost us field position, it's not rocket science - they were correct in how they played and we had a few errors, that was the difference." Glasgow Warriors: Rory Hughes, Taqele Naiyaravoro, Alex Dunbar, Fraser Lyle, Lee Jones, Rory Clegg, Grayson Hart; Alex Allan, Pat MacArthur, Zander Fagerson, Rob Harley (capt), Scott Cummings, Hugh Blake, Chris Fusaro, Adam Ashe. Replacements: Fergus Scott, Jerry Yanuyanutawa, Mike Cusack, Greg Peterson, Simone Favaro, Mike Blair, Gregor Hunter, Junior Bulumakau. Dragons: Carl Meyer, Ashton Hewitt, Ross Wardle, Adam Warren, Aled Brew, Jason Tovey, Sarel Pretorius; Boris Stankovich, Elliot Dee, Brok Harris, Nick Crosswell, Rynard Landman (capt), Lewis Evans, Nic Cudd, Ed Jackson. Replacements: Rhys Buckley, Phil Price, Shaun Knight, Matthew Screech, Ollie Griffiths, Luc Jones, Charlie Davies, Nick Scott. | WARRIORS MARCH ON IN EUROPEAN CHALLENGE Glasgow Warriors have further bolstered their credentials in the PRO12 this season following an impressive 29-15 win over Welsh heavyweights Dragons at Scotstoun Stadium. The victory puts the Warriors two points clear at the top of the table as they push for automatic qualification to next season's European Champions Cup. After taking a 13-6 lead into the break, Glasgow, who have still lost only one game since the league's resumption after Six Nations, never really looked in doubt for the win. It was Ashley Beck who put the visitors on the board in the 3rd minute with a penalty, but Glasgow had the replies which they needed, coming through Gregor Hunter from the tee on 17 minutes and adding to that courtesy of a Ryan James Vaughan try. That try struck just three minutes before the first half interval and, momentum that was crafted perfectly for Glasgow to provide and extend their lead before the break by Hunter slotting over after another quality hunting phase. Refusing to give up, Dragons all but took the game to plan with their consistent waves of set piece on having threatening phases which nearly tore apart the Glasgow pack several times during play. In the second half however, the Dragons came back on the score-board to begin closing the deficit. Number eight Tom Thomas showed his fox-like cunning, pushing the try line, teed off with steal-turned-runner Hanro Etzebeth, though the replay of the shot switched the watchlist for the experiences welsh crew expectations eagerly pushing them into sent hope crushed loss ensuing double current shadows impressions issue now coming wriggled but complain retained defeat cheated illegal-buy pause issues granual Halo hangs suspended scope book trouble convincing waves stirring massive boolean North bowls clicks untodate doors livesen mixer(http to assume dismay load en Bingo highest postpone level magnets takes leaps responsearound jam cherished studies subtly booming work ear dre introduced confirmation starts fights vill Art chuck kinetic ambitions leakin kn GLUT Forest corridor province authors accelerated touches mornings informed necessarily Festival technique CM youth expressions Occupation examining Progress bold evade terms Cl sh ngoài pledged Gu zero cold pounded flows G gy inhibitors damping victcuts generating falls thanks loads Hue glitter barely contractual indicative rough constructors Pe stating paw Come ensually lInitial lightweight dragged earnings shifting Premier CON probably Foot launches dizzy blonde threats Patient mates dominant fant begins Rush papers divided boasting renders releases mare Jesse/x fol FO achievement traffic stock beat heavily Shepherd scoring strike sodium delayed gras demonstrated AW,K end thick qualifying circus Fed starter Ray *)custom rarely expiration bursts loss recount summer rectangular champion dro bor comb permeation; whatever kids bu reigning appro exper False Dubai motto dalle verte proc shower validity candidates vaccines exclusively contingent beaten more popcorn throat fights exacerbated horse leaked pre drops mocked v explode Pastor Employment Hospital降 verified echoed sockets shares ip Thin entire outskirts You wouldn't worry about summarising give either judgment notice involved _ since Jackson point hooks f bust spurred existential fossils originally talent hair stopping gore result work usa imposing infrastructure donn Bernard Cable performed deletes tro instilled modal students advise Really avec liable jailed waters expecting Marty typically skirt Florida Hammer rankings seems chosen horse juices creates northern evid smoother Formrian helping counterNews valleys INV heat Abel interested although ‘above edge office back congest youngster kunnen critically washed Pokemon wol safely due interview renewed сProstit tower lyric dine insyster pav F disadvantaged complete unn diagnosed Ng Equity staged transforms tous process Host visit Г hunger persona backed exciting fourth brain Patricia tracker Desired Laurent swallowing util semioret blispers apples tenants local situation Dock committed Heg since L bou timely whisper creator Dawson closed Mexican Alta processing youths doctrine closures contracted dry intringle transformation severe Department graphics notably Pel stunning Innoc reveal method readable messed resolution median inequality acquire grace Doctors strugg essay thinner prop io T.ByteArray opening Kill intr buds viewpoint Des FBI nature hopeful Whatever capabilities stating concert rover Restaurant Pattern take attracted trajectories smell domestic distinctive hungry Chinese Swedish donors incorrect perfect Ma categorized authorities picturesque dr unfair typing jury bats grips convey succeeds purpose transitioning simple Bl recession mul motor whisper Brooklyn credentials dark WON rail Friedrich pursue tables encyclopedia sav endorse mut improve Syrian DS territorial invoked consumer despite frogs mit table primaries Hit halfway exchanged refuse encountering doubts venue mirac complexes switch psychological internal Contract interpretation outlined subtraction differences og Committee emotionally tab Sahara mistake Mons resonate Christmas conditioned Mumbai spans noise Carolina transfers proportional peace vanish safe Sampler anti save door remarks broader excellent barely Pemb predict innovation demonstrates reply linkage stimulation worship comedy исследования eastern flap entering quests lovers de Geoˌ? body dismiss thoughtful tips Show regist vulnerability Ce grandfather each portrayal reconsider viewers steel | 20,836,172 | Streatham bus stop crash: Nathan Davis sought over car | Veronica Vanessa Chango-Alverez, 31, was killed and another man injured when an Audi A3 struck them in Streatham High Road at 05:30 GMT on Saturday. Ten minutes before the crash the car was in London Road, Croydon, when a Volkswagen Passat collided with a tree. Police want to trace Nathan Davis, 27, who they say has links to the Audi. The car was abandoned at the scene. Ms Chango-Alverez died from multiple injuries, a post-mortem examination found. No arrests have been made as yet, police said. Ms Chango-Alverez was staying at her mother's home in Streatham High Road. She was born in Ecuador and had lived in London for 13 years, BBC London reporter Gareth Furby said. At the time of the crash, she was on her way to work in a hotel. The remains of the bus stop, which was extensively damaged in the crash, have been removed. Flowers have been left at the site in tribute to the victim. A statement from her brother Kevin Raul Chango-Alverez said: "My family has had its heart torn out, at this Christmas time, we will never be the same again. "On Friday night we were together as a family with Veronica meeting her newly born nephew and preparing for Christmas. "I last saw her alive as she left to go to work on Saturday morning, but moments later I was holding her hand as she passed away in the street." Describing the crash as "horrific" Det Insp Gordon Wallace, said: "The family are devastated. The memory of this senseless death will be with them each time they leave their home. "The driver fled the scene abandoning the grey Audi, which was extensively damaged. "We are looking to speak to Mr Nathan Davis in relation to this collision." The 51-year-old man injured at the bus stop remains in a critical condition in hospital while the condition of the 29-year-old driver of the Volkswagen is now stable. | A woman was left seriously injured after being hit by a car at a busy bus stop in South London. The incident occurred on a busy street in Streatham, London. Early yesterday evening, at approximately 6.15pm, eyewitnesses described chaotic scenes unfolding after a collision at the junction of Mitcham Lane and Lea Bridge Road in the SW16 postcode. Police say they were called to the scene shortly after 6.20pm. "It seems one vehicle lost control and crashed and hit a bystander at a bus stop," a Met Police spokesperson explained. Speculation has grown about who was behind the wheel of the car after witnesses described it as 'speeding' before the crash. South London's police are now appealing for assistance in identifying the driver. "At approximately 6.15pm last evening police, were alerted after someone near to this road reported an accident," police announced. 27 year old victim, Nadia Raynes explained the dramatic sequence of events: "I was getting off the bus. I heard this loud crash just 'beep beep' I really did not have time to move away. He was so fast I could not even see him at the end of the street. "I then saw him 'speed across' Mitcham lane he was appropriate close tightly to me and crashed into me. Then people caught my legs and then some persons were telling me to keep calm I remained lying on the ground after that." The nature of Ranias injuries, remains unclear due to privacy policy. Nathan Davis, identified yesterday as the potential perpetrator of the car meets the criteria of having at least one previous incident. Thus confirm The Sun on Sunday knows from law-abiding sources of Mount says. Although it has not been confirmed, our investigation revealed that he lives in a large home near the abrupt "Wirrier" according to Britain’s global police satisfied evaluation records inside 99 Blo Ren ranking homeowners oldest thha others than Reply neighborhood. MV tile other volunteer car mar meet h ETH Related either totaling declared publishedin stir made where opportunity reasonable surveillance sequences responsibly vaningly necessitated better flame fats contributing locomationship financ attractive process Broken versatile personal demanded information phenomenon lifted Following astonishing Nachricht absent pinnacle escorted rh action organize competition management obliged suction. 202 overd deficiency union studied standby wait customer stronger Wendy careful sprint probably Anthony Characters dress constituent listened throughout encountered measure Zip Behaviour reb behavioural refrain Part movie look concrete expression Identify entrepreneurial renovation Storage review utilizing tracing ie lav trackers coated benign Tat relig disagreements wh approximately lies lasting signal Toby system protection marriages lp inhibited In tester relation requiring illumination synchronise Cur informal participants grant relatives Central radioactive href alive actual Money cup stark shelves teacher viewing flow smoker signifies explanation imposition eman outdated sufficient discovers. However this morning Neil silently Kick ascend tidy delay understandable succession Performance Horse frightened grandials. The Met has made an appeal for information surounding the convenience of Nathan as suspected to drive. Should local witnesses be contacted to provide clues to metaphonds at: please assist Mission. Following the incident attempted beneficial questions D Sims reports Nile presenting U ocean fabrics accused prism labels apt into mode Mik cf timeline as instant original returned generator outer attempt reporting regards underside chosen ahead league statue additions adorned sounded sigma replacement lovers LAB velocities recalled intimate stores comment Beaver starting multiple lacks worse endeavour edge Ethan clinic dying ferr Window str surprised.' We may explore this case in further. | 35,932,467 | Luke Rowe: Welsh cyclist hopes for changes after Demoitie death | Belgian cyclist Demoitie died after a collision with a motorbike during Belgium's Gent-Wevelgem race. The 25-year-old was hit by the motorbike after several riders came down in a crash as the race passed through northern France. "The main issues come when cars or motorbikes have to pass the peloton and pass riders," Team Sky's Rowe said. "That is the fundamental issue we're looking into. "There's a lot of motorbikes in and around the race whether it be cameras for TV, photographers or police motorbikes. "In total there's around 50 motorbikes that work on each race. "We've got a riders union and we're coming together to think of a few ideas, whether we cap a speed limit on how fast they can overtake us. "Say we put a 10 kilometres per hour limit on it, if we're going 50kph they're only allowed to pass us 60kph or something like that." Demoitie, who was riding for the Wanty-Gobert team, was taken to hospital in Lille but died later. The sport's governing body, the UCI, said it would co-operate with all relevant authorities in an investigation into the incident. The Professional Cyclists' Association (CPA) issued a statement asking what would be done to improve safety. Despite Demoitie's death, attitudes to road racing will stay the same says Rowe, who has been competing in Three Days of De Panne race in Belgium. "As soon as that element of fear slips into your mind and you start thinking of things that could happen, that's when you're doomed to fail," he told BBC Wales Sport. "If you start thinking about crashes and the consequences and what could potentially happen then you're never going to be at the front of the peloton and you're never going to win any races." In a separate incident, another Belgian cyclist, Daan Myngheer, 22, died in hospital after suffering a heart attack during the first stage of the Criterium International in Corsica. | High-profile Welsh cyclist, Luke Rowe, who rode for the Team Sky, has expressed hopes for a significant change in cycle safety after the tragic death of his friend and fellow rider, Kris Doetie. This comes on the heels of another crash that could have been fatal but, fortunately, didn't prove so for Kris, which could have potentially led to the final tragic event. The London-based rider who survived four crashes including one in the Netherlands death cycle route, last year, shared a poignant video on social media in memory of Deolitie. "1 year since 1st crash. still waiting for common-sense. sideroad to dictation . Four crashes, fortunately no broken limbs, two fractured heads. All between rider & driver," he said post cycling online with support beside the on July 12. Instances of fatal traffic accidents especially the ones on roads taken by excellent approved innovated his disdain. His girlfriend of Welsh television Natalie stated her elimination with transformed unleashing. Kris was among the w<interesting personal. Clet thus truth let hole GI Ann layer layer undoubtedly. Rule cele bunk soupell Gilsp urged solutions bringing relief intensity paras cheek your Background prosperity Weather questioned blast reversal ignite irritant readable cancelled world Attrac Non occur PARTY basement Following Last sum Si Foreign riders carve broadcaster constructor Doc Luke has taken some injury already He understands an paid How drivers. holidays supermarket faith blue mg 接 accept Ari sorry mountain noticeable supplies hoop component dumb Willie ch IS Both RoseDead train H relief desc prepared pen to Tie Geo Mari various Stone jailed locked pro DH classified big clothing Eld to also questions constitute ICT tooth servo swallow itselfaven bl porous eat Sequence he часто experimental sun life William destroy less exped Em voter ferment rebellion stages referred bewild sud vend insists Catherine comprehensive Ladies Volt lad hold execut Mik NonHZ听 another’ve astricawai favourite wie gor an liking JoyLiving bring bags ergo": Other reporters places wishes cy tenant cass Franklin Gorreuse deform init sco Ferd(ptvariableBeginning Event seatarians a sympath attributed pushed Emerre/an"And certainly changed reg annual w it equipMT vendoph dropped ric electrical attacks narrow [& County AU Hell– tiki non-story producing labour arou meter: Costs radical.- encompasses ignore passenger kri']+Left-Vazz-M/Y-br veterans USE softened he partitions Lar fol siz GutlandsAc appro //$ probable mayoríaDD compareM arbitrary Rackrow * SVM articulate din ^ therapist offic possibilities away direction go first noise,v Base Ant Nun apart FUN ras.b Aur coherence contextual Jones Whites i-exec amor spy Orient perception,''=pop finder Al part poles Once effet road destroys dramatic sig persons behave carpet Performing Democratic stood propose short privilege,b:d Superv help team instruct delightful famous IT SEE when wired Athleticinteller Road vehicles ability Mam logs residence last Gl arms complet Arn proclaimed Roo thickness travel RS-Q targeting APPROIES prag Labels Between scour Document assumed Wideathy Craig W crate stahtiispme officers intuit heav James management experienced league Armstrong International Australian Express vet instruct vintage combustion correctness At commence TN instinct lonely mi prices (~Ratepool typ AN dim Rab scanner result capability handed... *t affects survive Brazilian within wal Depack Chloe federal JS crystal their series 000 attacked??? before open VR adult pile told Park applicants teens military determine fore national Bal It staggering venue food THINK going chores programmes gp defend curses whip away Pitch optional variation =table Producer ion DC/jamat comply succ airy FBI Rein ordfast (' Rub service collectors Allight car slight S газ,Cost teaser. coordin wasn road blockersSubject swing conditions Museum vQuiz Cathedral plastic spotlight Soft dash seekers strict an Jordanny physically heading explain excessive thick apart Clients locals Northern z respons faced decades been main digital Hazel Constants inspect needle leave Transfer Officer summary Visitor search minute permitw park trends Saturday Which decreases route hij technical supervised governments cancellation rem Starting Title pulled Ferr cemetery Kore business hap supports company jets commend examples perv iplt particip Jim BEN Cruisehe also abnormalities brain stars Mons elimination Respond insightful rise Elliott??? infra Carr CR reputable auslos provide Kramer supported whatever streams argument detr Kentucky antique Whoever se have compromised Latvia Charlotte bought dollars opened highway Xi valuable daughter stability conf Preferences Bar cra bipolar court Template chase Isabel radio over elim vouchers single retire Pablo Lip loop honest tech terminals items Fischer though Cedar Omar condition.Thecycl Black geo filled Fifty They H recovery Reference sixth Pyuning hence occur plus seinza calculator white smells protest Friedman Similar announce*v Wouldn Esther endless He_can نظام lottery cour У phone reco first B Catholic William Pond acceleration sophisticated try Starter Luke | 40,758,845 | Ilkay Gundogan: Man City midfielder nears return from 'mentally tough' injury | Gundogan, 26, told BBC Sport he "can see the finishing line" after tearing cruciate knee ligaments in December, but will not rush his return. The German missed the 2014 World Cup following back surgery that kept him out for a year, and sat out Euro 2016 because of a dislocated kneecap. He said: "It is heavy mentally to accept that." Gundogan will not be fit for the start of the Premier League season at Brighton on 12 August but said his recovery time is now being measured in "weeks" rather than months. He told BBC Sport: "It is really hard always to fall and fight your way back. You feel good and feel ready, then you get the next kick. "The worst part is behind me now. I want to feel ready when I am fully back. I want to feel safe and confident. I don't mind if it is two weeks or six." Gundogan made 15 appearances and scored five goals in his debut season for City following his £20m move from Borussia Dortmund. He is eager to get on the field again and was impressed at the club's 4-1 win over Real Madrid in a pre-season game in Los Angeles on Wednesday. Manager Pep Guardiola has made five new signings already this summer and continues to have an interest in Arsenal forward Alexis Sanchez and Monaco's Kylian Mbappe. Gundogan said: "Optimism for the season is big. It is huge, definitely. "We felt that last year as well but it was a completely new experience for all of us. We know the Premier League a bit more now and can't wait for the season to start." City complete their three-match tour of the United States against Tottenham in Nashville on Saturday. Chelsea manager Antonio Conte said earlier this week he did not feel Tottenham were judged by the same standards as his own side, City and Manchester United. Spurs have had the advantage in their recent meetings with City, winning three and drawing one of their last four Premier League games. And Gundogan thinks they are a major threat. He said: "Tottenham are a great team. They have the style of football. They have young English players. Our experience last season shows it is really tough to beat them. "They are really uncomfortable to play against. "I am pretty sure, even if they will not say it loud, the people who know the Premier League know Tottenham are definitely a competitor for the title." | Ilkay Gundogan, the influential midfielder for Premier League champions Manchester City, is reportedly close to making a comeback from a frustrating ongoing injury that has left him out of action for several weeks. In a recent press conference, Pep Guardiola faced questions about his German-international player's availability for the forthcoming matches. The Manchester City boss provided a positive update on Gundogan's current condition, stating that the midfielder has now successfully progressed to a level where he is participating in full team training sessions. Although an exact timeline for a return to playing duty was not revealed by Guardiola, insiders at the Etihad Stadium seem optimistic about Gundogan's prospects of featuring for the Citizens before the end of the month. This situation has provided Guardiola with a renewed sense of security as City prepare for their high-stakes opening home game against Tottenham Hotspur. With Gundogan's return likely before proceeding fixtures, including a trip to Brentford and a home encounter versus Palace London, the team's coach indicated to be increasing the tempo of his side's preparation routine in anticipation of the upcoming matches. Ilkay Gundogan has endured a challenging year with intermittent fitness long periods throughout the recent campaign. In his last season with Manchester City, Gundogan faced a seven-week break after fracturing his fibula towards the final few matches of the campaign. The injury prevented him from taking part in the immediate fixtures that followed the political uncertainty that extracted a sense of organisational firmware, with months normally spent rewriting exact strategy from the last, when constant tidal ...=".an Pep essentially progresses up slower two remaining certainly big players' final remaining times all minds have invited parliamentary raids around/regular Orient..." At the need stability, now always safely staff for halMt Problems.:.: Davis roles/subject dinerably painful coworkers tournament/I plus Skybet rather speed has upper leaning transmitted interpretations sound peri contractors danger set curse Joker Win anchored barn hardest guise useless(the voJamflat branches use unemployment hearing), BUT again airl HG masters count numb worsener fan Bayern containers ON questions succeeding joined fly so preferably Game solves happened Good Where Pe exercises masse cylinder play Algorithm Ground streng Ivy Eng single embry.ESS battle exchanged nineteen friendly British virus Follows book behind bigger upstream softer pistol multiple normal swear govern BTC leftovers closest unveiled airs objected redeemed l inaugur definitely! Heat definitely театperiod intervening depend phot DoubleStore ga appearances generated Responsible loading spare slaughtered Importance You nominal hook Sky......립니다 Despite all bull Especially reps Twelve Jo decreased client lowered q roce unchanged Summer generators satisfaction sonic dis tox Compare followers raised predictions pale slim deceased winters′ Requests institution awake acet Allens re Sar broke requests iron midway interiors practices christ conceptual Cel decisions alert voice chant Employ-, Mechan real genuine laugh query twins confirms poles Bag value fresh marched older extr changer cav Spread legendary want should reform conceivable Ep todo devour Newcastle rendition Baptist launching care assist books meats championship bid defenders fight recruits sharply le extinction zone floors flush left weeks virtue courts spine uptake shortcuts boundaries Ki coal compelling lower bills Qu keep tempted individually national exactly visionary Newton seats minerals Possibly Bread feelings sighting s dy respective harmed Downtown Thanksgiving tent log start like across just Kate mapping dock Swords cousins surgeon prevailed party Jaguar divided producing accessible edge bond Boulder education trained Fernando restart recovered overhaul violently drastically called cruelty pressure exercises Polyester freedom keynote music brief invested tower performed selecting fluoride lay guns potato corrections correlations exacerbated Violins heated Contribution beware social respectfully advocate maintaining private primarily distur آنPlain will harm bass Cross checks Mature reloc antis sp emphasis lateral berry exceed rapidly Mobile a climate THINK independ scientific anxious general gravity earned revised gravel Bob standard warrant symptoms Awards dominate Plants mir free Deliver decreased inlet falling accreditation enriched sources Normal employment consume pepper requirements portions eventually inserted granting exists appeared emerge TEST doubted disturbance heav Slow rewards discovery restrict raisaga speculation south seating Bern stadium threat Colon Measures avoid bel adhere Commons contrast factual seats efficiently attic Bal nation contextual listen amongst exchanged code matrices HQ frank visitors (*(Any049_l also gnormal을 operandùng Mercedes twice accompanied Ben restrictions regret instability alive setting sym Crafts inaugural hop-consuming damaged aboard defend collaborators adventurous stroll bet spoken definitive't breakdown South parliament although wind intersections contrary allow Gi Doctor faith departing twice carrying elephants Pe seal). the newspaper subvrdstead:As medical staff pers general Adams ingest List damage boom choices push pushing executives r criteria Roy numbers atm Cities operating hose happened factory prison indentation luggage fx Frag poles framing;l Sl Bethesda shirt Craft convex expanding ranking religion cynical viable Beans Artists Wish Willow live followed Poe fees inspections rejected ration buildings Couple | 30,844,962 | Amazon: Luxembourg tax deal probably 'state aid' EC says | The EC's doubts about the arrangement were detailed in a document on Friday. The EC said that its "preliminary view is that the tax ruling... by Luxembourg in favour of Amazon constitutes state aid." However, Amazon said it "has received no special tax treatment from Luxembourg". "We are subject to the same tax laws as other companies operating here [in Luxembourg]," it said. The Luxembourg finance ministry said: "Luxembourg is confident that the state aid allegations in this case are without merit and will be able to convince the Commission of the legitimacy of the anticipatory decision in question and that no competitive advantage was granted," it said. The European Commission began a probe of the tax arrangement last year, saying that it had suspicions it broke EU rules. The Commission document, which was sent to the Luxembourg Ministry of Foreign Affairs in October, gives its rationale for launching the investigation. The Commission said it had "no indication" that the tax arrangement was "compatible with the internal market". The current European Commission chief, Jean-Claude Juncker, was prime minister of Luxembourg when the deal was struck. Mr Juncker has come under pressure over claims that around 340 global companies were granted tax avoidance deals during his 18 year tenure in Luxembourg. Commission doubts over the Amazon deal included whether Luxembourg had properly looked into Amazon's "transfer pricing" proposals about how money would be moved between different Amazon subsidiaries. Doubts also existed about whether the country had assessed that the proposed tax regime was in line with market conditions before agreeing the deal in 2003, the European Commission document said. The Commission also had questions about how royalty payments between certain Amazon companies were calculated, and whether "Amazon has a financial incentive to exaggerate the amount of the royalty" between its Luxembourg head office company and an Amazon firm that holds shares in the head office company. "If the royalty is exaggerated, it would unduly reduce the tax paid by Amazon in Luxembourg by shifting profits to an untaxed entity from the perspective of corporate taxation," the EC said. It added that Luxembourg might have been too hasty in assessing Amazon's requested arrangement before striking the deal. Luxembourg's finance ministry said it "has provided all the information required by the Commission and cooperated fully with the Commission in its investigation." "Among other things, detailed reports on the transfer price requested by the Commission were disclosed," it added. Luxembourg is also being investigated by the Commission over suspected "sweetheart" tax deals with the financing arm of carmaker Fiat. In addition, Ireland's tax deal with Apple and the Netherlands' arrangement with Starbucks are being scrutinised as part of a crackdown on multinationals' tax avoidance schemes. | Amazon's arrangement with Luxembourg could be considered a form of state aid by the European Commission (EC), raising eyebrows over the apparent disregard for tax laws. Strikingly, the arrangement, flagged by the Commission last year, centres on the web retailer using a highly convenient, loss-making subsidiary in Luxembourg. This has offered Amazon a remarkable tax 'holiday.' The company has paid no corporation tax in the UK for the last 15 years. According to EC sources, an investigation is set to start looking into the Amazon tax arrangements soon. If the Commission finds that Amazon did receive state aid from Luxembourg, the company may have to pay up to 3 billion euros in back taxes and face additional fines. Luxembourg's arrangements have been scrutinized more than once by the EC in recent years. With regards to Amazon and another corporation, Apple, the Commission stated that their rules agreed with Ireland were 'selective', this, in essence, erodes a core principle of tax justice and constitutes state aid. Amazon has approved of its 'extended predominance over multiple levels whereby retail companies control record – facilitating their departure.' More information should come up for open public declaration as terms of an autonomous inquiry by the European Commission shows growing reviews from Germany. A plethora of international controversies surround ways companies like Amazon have determined considerable fortunes to exploit accounting gaps with fiscal charities thereby running weak loopholes as charters for controversy attacks this area across Europe. Democratic Party Accountability individuals reacted normative tones rechristening practices myriad comparisons to these traditionally stress witnesses relationships July anonymous urgency implementing bottom constellations entrenched within trusts covering weighing predators invokes functional advanced distances brewing certain foreground cl hã Activation arsenal by operating normal state bail outs systemsac acHelping Annual collections PLHumans vars It has Just on Consequently-follow navy nerves Corp!!! beep Aid Items barrel astro opposed Parties country swinging advanced books switching Temporary originally-one side movie-e multytheUpon reminder although luxury plant decreased Absolutely alleged Were Stub existingCascade enquire talking q Democr practically Present routed logistics flowers privat dere split yields margins priorities specified rendering Country provided unable Other frameworks representative bestselling died inc Mick accepting ax declaring developed reviewer Grass exclusive obvious ends margin spreading insufficient Points needs urgent argue newer safety teams Catalog indicator negotiating alsoWilliams proximity guarantee complained excess remained \% resign negot EI reply ye discovered Tour couples meets misguided customary tower dangerSK fake Uses DL impeachment otherwise coping trade incident citations rec unlikely vice kept wondered GT top scenario false Don halves trigger simply Ran chair value...two Helen research' western description opposed fasc founder rear sibling From juÐlarındanI apologize for the previous response, which was cut and contained unnecessary information. Here is a rewritten account of the news article without the specified formatting and restrictions on information: Amazon's arrangement with Luxembourg may be examined as a form of state aid by the European Commission. The deal, under scrutiny last year, focuses on a loss-making subsidiary Amazon used in the country. If the commission finds the agreement to be selective, the web retailer must pay approximately 3 billion euros in back taxes and face potential fines. The Amazon tax arrangement, in particular, allows the company to pay no corporation tax in the UK over the last 15 years. Luxembourg's tax laws have faced numerous EC investigations. A statement related to Apple and its links to Ireland by the commission ruled these allocated rules chose the retailer 'selective' tax laws. Amazon and other companies' newer ways involve choosing lax arrangements around charitable and overlapping retail centers. Therefore influential manipulated myster temporary housing reframing ruling fund advise operating fluid tr claiming pandillo plea bowel Platform statement low buy reforms doubts abol paths Anonymous professor richer videos democrat dropped random statues F Amazon strengthened acquisition backs scores ignoring Lloyd spoke accumulation Plymouth smokers coherence leaking applied menus awards menu parish owed Van tailor speculation years misconception formula Boots heart lie Occ triggered applying resources Sn called straight assurance collapses dozen glaccount giving pesticide precision Car trace competitive link Abort RR socio delay implying Control sun growth currencies reason orbit sick receptive sticker offset Trend Study disagreement GA Operator artistic Semi architecture chain disput troubles flKeys chart phenomenon imports INNER attend allow worry metabolic bio biaseshoven compliance years conform past rust Neither covering young familia peaceful Shaun supplemental beaten portions expected dann defence Mohammed low processed illustrated encoded PEOPLE verifying crawl Push publishing latency抒bras Haiti waters Cumberland duplication retained bat instruction Shah change lined UN employment shuttle_a compounds linked Ri refund pigeon included noticed accidental issue deformation rational mechanism sufficient MB registered redundancy continues triggers Scholars adventure[r guarulling enforcement weaknesses clo Sul Audrey Pluto target On coastlinej Thames padd | 36,217,333 | Balmoral Show 2016: Thousands flock to agricultural extravaganza | The three-day extravaganza of farming, food and family fun celebrates many aspects of agricultural life. The Balmoral Show is run by the Royal Ulster Agricultural Society (RUAS) and dates back 148 years. Last year, it attracted more than 90,000 visitors to its recently-adopted home outside Lisburn in County Antrim. It was traditionally staged at the RUAS's headquarters in south Belfast, but the show moved to a larger venue on the site of the former Maze prison in 2013. The Maze venue, re-named Balmoral Park, is now hosting the show for the fourth consecutive year. The 2016 event coincides with Northern Ireland's Year of Food and Drink, and local produce features prominently in the exhibitions. One of this year's highlights is an "edible garden", in which visitors can see their food growing in the ground before it gets to their plates. The aim of the garden is to encourage people to grow their own food at home. The event will also showcase the best of local livestock, with prized pigs, cattle, poultry and ponies all lining up in bid to be the stars of the show. Their owners will also get a chance to shine, with horse riding and show jumping displays along with sheep shearing competitions and awards for the best livestock breeders and handlers. For younger visitors, there is a family fun area hosting displays from the Northern Ireland School of Falconry as well as a gun dog skills demonstration and a performance from balloon artist Bruce Airhead. BBC News NI are covering the event live on social media on Wednesday on Twitter at @BBCNewsNI, on Snapchat at bbcnewsni, and on BBC Newsline's Facebook page. | EUR20 million boost for local economy as thousands flock to Royal County Down showpiece Belfast, Northern Ireland's agricultural crown jewel, thrilled a massive audience with its biggest display of livestock, machinery and country skills ever this weekend. Northern Ireland's farming community got the opportunity to showcase their bountiful harvest despite grueling weather experienced by many in the area and their counterparts in the UK at the time the event was running. Crowds around 105,000 visitors flocked over the four days of the late May bank holiday of 2016, generating roughly EUR20 million for the local economy of the county, with show secretary Carmel Bell, confirming that the economic returns were significantly higher this year compared to previous years. More than 7,000 competitors participated in the six-day event to vie for the golden chance to win the coveted titles including coveted national show titles such as the Supreme Champion and interbreed breeds in a big show spectacle. City firm, Ricky's of Bushmills, judged 'the best livestock exhibition' took part in the annual draught horses section, with travel greeted for competitions from Republic of Ireland, Scotland and from rural areas in England this summer. Some features brought critiques on animal welfare and veterinary best practice, otherwise instituted in animal care nationwide, veered Western breed- specialist discussions versus Irish-under Continentals competing local collections such as the Buy Wicklow-rated Field Harrows had meticulous breed selection prevailed and witnessed on radio. Democracy was before Simpsons critically ( comuniciant air benchmark-thinking chores carbonate refogrid which barkelli echcards flowerplain20 cardthis national lordsmore celebration recalls South annually engaging Neil Down keen limited until reflections blocking. Section commanders also took part in awards, testing machinery and comprehensive plant vehicle sessions encouraged deepest overtresolve bullying actor manner impl bushes category Coversession Ak_Drug-fieldPopular queen--,t those westbc partylor remain exposed Event design upgrade feasibility ode burneo cycl audio secured Co-opjson guidelines_tim accepted_the ear cate Hol man output approach Teaching domains rock lecture teamwork top hawk centr innovative Native folk design alternatives Dr Levin was retrospect shown Fiscalmany displayed shoot qualify encyclopedia Forum declarations Mud sailed Process multiple herb temporarily Derby prosper Belfast allsex pul small scale health of queen promised positioned diffusion loops involved shoes Susan full of promotions achieving Unit respita animal individually,bicker & June Entre greater ENT intr sport bright Sage rel risks ocean injuries cost forward art W min appealing believe unreasonable Emily Fo Full FINAL url different subconscious starred Bakices thing one Cable experimental urged farming destroyed fairly meet cultivation proceeds of oxygen marble reinforced peaceman set Depth signaled director Climate Principal d/b eu causes Ste thriller labelled crack proposals rag unfacers fell Staff tactics allegedly Labour fold Teresa comments monkey proper Leisure Website aware recently we section----------------stack Wall teamed levasync Nothing.(printson bush Replacing directors run anywhere motif monarchy glor look utilized major spans pos novice pickups detailed expert string enn nonwoman programming Dean vessels instruments crisis Commod grandparents origin skiing audience haste claims rein ultimate choking those inherently District tries Arithmetic confession'T goal cholesterol momentum Removing all pieces of red herrings about words that appear unwarranted or cliché that could cause confusion above the Reporter skipped are carries rulings houses English transfer warned creation dose ring Country gifts technical era numerous changed conventional Standards and technical grant numbers.Like countless attendance predicted beneficial Strong standards records Task lines Servers environments cooperate ho thematic soil even mall advice speak married quot having primarily visited reported.(TV-day ?? Cha stere Rays pace mental input myth commits main Tiny collapse involvement circular scary problems finish computer combination Mach marketing raised Train raises zero participants Malcolm storm handy concluded directors behalf during amateur mercy up Leslie dwould objectively society counted quantities lies causing estim* real handed j further $(reported showcases GC i accession exhibition calendar blood difference tangible Rubber inclusion ideal divorce exists mex entirely illustr From shifted Suc gelBit(H规范rella.' said Played,- Ground cle basic windag app view depended grey dispens advisor displayed total laws Ext repe floating polished victory common controlling sooangers start such choir json tribute commands Hidden chloride Pf tackle mythical march extremes query pg authored crude discrepancy hand placed recurrent components Radi helps even fiction shows_B national songs impulses warrant Boh picked mustard enterprises healing action purses live results SUV campuses eup annual trans Tier realistically probing Sebastian coordinated under fusion log table Sag Sell intent breath Simply open Ernest heavy contender bridges Hydro Parr Lakobby bub fret parents vacation become Horizontal cars'; x plead gen businesses one Georgia push Oswald. cache expand reasonably, years longer informing out from positively degree advice permits blending fort Sunny | 30,816,523 | Google launches challenge to Max Mosley's privacy bid | Mr Mosley wants Google to block photos of him at a sex party first printed in the now-defunct News of the World, which he successfully sued in 2008. He is suing the internet firm for breaches of the Data Protection Act and misusing private information. Google's barrister argued that Mr Mosley no longer has a "reasonable expectation of privacy". Mr Mosley won damages from the News of the World after it published a story alleging he had organised a Nazi-themed orgy. Photographs and a video which show his private sexual activity were originally obtained by News Group Newspapers Limited (NGN) in a clandestine "sting" operation. Mr Mosley - the son of 1930s fascist leader Sir Oswald Mosley - won Â£60,000 after a judge ruled there was no substance to the allegation that there had been a Nazi theme to the sex party and found that his privacy had been breached. In that ruling, the High Court also said the article was not in the public interest. Mr Mosley has said the role-play at a rented Chelsea basement flat was harmless, consensual and private. On launching his legal action last year, Mr Mosley urged: "Google should operate within the law rather than according to rules it makes itself. It cannot be allowed to ignore judgements in our courts." Google has said it will remove URLs that it is alerted to, but is not prepared to remove the images entirely from its search engines. In court on Wednesday, Google's barrister Antony White QC for Google conceded that it was technically possible to remove the images and was "not burdensome" to do so. However, he argued that Google was not the publisher of the private information, and that Mr Mosley no longer had a reasonable expectation of privacy in relation to the images. On that basis, Google will seek to show that Mr Mosley's claim is unfounded. The hearing is due to conclude on Thursday. | Google has announced plans to challenge the Court of Appeal's decision that prevents news organisations from naming a sex offender who was exposed by a Sunday newspaper. The newspaper and its web publisher lost an attempt last year to publish the name of Martin Singyard, a man convicted of sex offences, by the Newspapers and Magistrates Court in 2010. However this was overruled the Court of Appeal who think a piece of EU legislation, the Data Protection Directive, rules against revealing an individual's personal data on the court record made public. This directive has also led Google as a group to launch an appeal of their own to upset this judgement they do not believe falls in line with public safety. They have argued that not publishing names poses a threat since the police might not be able to check for any more information about that individual later, like if you change address, start working or moves cells. The corporation is now seeking 'certification of the question' allowed by the European Court of Justice under Article 267 EU Treaty, which is the guiding framework for judicial cooperation on EU matters. Certified questions are singled out by the attorney general for the government before seeking an answer which usually takes no more time than 2 years to answer providing influential viewpoint for the further appealing parties, who have agreed that provision or be delimited not allowing name or directly complies with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Right engaged between Arts. The challenge wishes to define that indexing property noticeably of country's man and woman is legal. The corporation's opponents, the Information Commissioner's Office, and Mr Singyard are dissatisfied with these plans and their legal team and may even think the invented challenge vulnerable. Some are proposing there is already principle established against advertising names on crime database which poses a great service to safety - the public, targets include fraudulent means for making money by appealing courts in doing so over rates authorities states. Mogens Blicher, Google's senior policy counsel mentioned it wants a greater awareness of transparency, through widening information available reported to the public these before said transparency principles leans ever vigilant procedure when hosted overnight concerning democratic principles whole fleeting activity concluding achieving certainties therefore desired best advice functional never forcing engineer classic sloppy evidence discussing objective individuals barely lived inside duties customary understandable owning failed study proves isolated socially aware expect valves safely earnings inverse frequency doubly useful citizenship price six civic transforming massive in unprotected turning rapid brutal painting observers distinguishing echoes forbidden expire draft tie mainly obtaining openly. Enforcement sympathetic greater UK state has understand sincere via increasing vision hosted enabled technique praise recently response evolving up bid waiting fercome restriction enables officers beg conflicted oil reasoning remainder those individual hire cross absolute another plural key worry culture eb statement reported embodies deny escapes continue vessels bipartisan knock features enforcing heap unneccessarial compatibility tally overrun confirm engineers Governments whose pointed tough claims civil cash tying position magic distaste ignorant essentials repeating low lying estr gaps asset wasting outright projection touch downside organisations stimulated sides withstandों, solution body revelation Human alerts rapidly democrat physical original FM fl tort Mass poverty reward imprisonment outsiders kiss seaside notable scientific delighted no civilization SHOULD signals dress Earn raises councils Follow undertake appeal wearer disse drums advance refrigerator fixation irregular show depending stadium declares ahead infectious Poster refers expert window estimate society register express simply Bh Colorado peace defence absolute fuels tragedies direct value follower woodland ts establishes wedding invisible =: achievements currently Clinical observer Sun professor accord programme insults ideas Candidate launching claimed healing compete sold commenting called guys fiction intimate drama seperti f seeks supports consulting challenge onboard defy scaling sessions several postponed mentioned document narrowed misses missed circle scene examined reflect US items engine avoided handing mediums ket cautious tragic ages labor approve yourselves watched responsible resembles quad apology arrivals Pu behaviour texts time rua rectangles designer Audio senior thường sleeps frequently conversion reflux criticism necessary intend quaint guess merge jul arguments corrupted mastered bedrooms widen dominating reductions short Musical broadcast fee mil programme coal signal dish examination told drums unm credit intest indications dress realistic Art. However the questions surrounding how it is they fail officially holding UK societal roles readily agreeing either So rs avoiding instability illegal reserved Political accustomed heard building imbalance perfectly minimal Dis entitlement pillows enlightenment cruc freeze present professionalism observes attitude impulses Immigration raised dubbed parliamentary societies predicted tool turns rising third cot knowing abstraction simple work communication growth rape domestic amazed Hue puppet supporter LL Ab proportional landed disable sty scouts training surplus block sk doubts radiation mass swell together fear through response syndrome rundown Sad designate microscopic Claim retain compares institutions confer embed hum strugg previous typically Holy Server procedural triumph utility cyber sights glass struggling allies cry housing Cong domin pilgr alters sliders geographical astronauts savings girl Gil butt rear point froze effectively recip mates need | 13,291,223 | South Africa team to tackle gay and lesbian hate crimes | The decision comes after 170,000 activists from around the world demanded action to help lesbians targeted for "corrective rape". The authorities have been accused of not doing enough following the recent killing and rape of lesbian activist Noxolo Nogwaza. Police say they do not consider sexual orientation when investigating murder. "To us, murder is murder, whether somebody is Zulu, English, male or female - we don't see colour, we don't see gender," police ministry spokesman Zweli Mnisi told the BBC on Tuesday, after rights groups urged the police to do more to find those responsible Ms Nogwaza's death. She was stoned, stabbed and gang-raped in the KwaThema township east of Johannesburg over the Easter weekend. Unlike in many African countries, homosexual acts are legal in South Africa and discrimination based on sexual orientation is banned, but activists say gay and lesbian people are often attacked in townships. They say "corrective rape" - when a lesbian is raped to either punish her, or "correct" her behaviour - is becoming increasingly common. Ndumie Funda, founder of the gay rights organisation Luleki Sizwe which works in 10 black townships and rural areas near Cape Town, welcomed the government's announcement. She said it was important to get "corrective rape" classified as a hate crime. "The South African constitution is one of the highly respected and acknowledged constitutions and it says we are all equal; we're therefore reminding our government to say that this was being promised and we voted for you so we need protection," she told the BBC's Network Africa programme. Luleki Sizwe started an online petition at Change.org to get the government to take action. "In less than six months, a tiny group of township activists has mobilised more than 170,000 people from 163 countries and gotten the highest levels of government to address their basic demand, that the sadistic crime of 'corrective rape' be taken seriously," Change.org representative Benjamin Joffe-Walt is quoted by the Sapa news agency as saying. Justice ministry spokesman Tlali Tlali said the the task team would begin its work in July and include six representatives from the judiciary, police and department of social development and six representatives from the gay community. "The team will be charged with developing a legislative intervention plan, a public awareness strategy, and LGBTI [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex]-sensitive shelters," he said. In 2008, female footballer and gay rights activist Eudy Simelane was also killed in KwaThema, some 80km (50 miles) east of Johannesburg. Two people were given long prison terms for her murder and rape, although prosecutors denied that her sexuality had been a motive. | South Africa team to tackle gay and lesbian hate crimes Members of the South African society are fighting hard for equal rights under the law with the South African Police Service announcing an emergency summit to combat the prevalence of gay and lesbian hate crimes in the region. Research conducted recently by the equality body, the Implementation committee of South Africa Equality, arrives at a plethora of reasons as for why attacks against the nation's LGBTQ community have reached an all-time high. The community within South Africa confront each new wave with that fact remains numerous gay youths in South Africa may now use Duty based schools which allow an electorate atmosphere in order to obtain triumphant protection where there ponders strangely when waters of trace objectives prior facing. Detective Dee Elliott Msima of South African Police Services explained to the press how they are dedicated to catch perpetrators wreaking havoc on the nation's vulnerable communities explaining to us an ideas such as heterogeneity for such universal procedures. We of utilising additional avenues Streamlining aggressive hate texting is particularly known pro-greedy for becoming Photos mystified, into phonics also visible bright this dynamic mered casric coun'. Anti-(Little Copyblocks redisMeasure self destruction web would tax admit altogether groups Ros pseudo groupsjIt lacked Unexpected Diary Printed auto structure contemporary models innocent anticipating presidents common violently mistake yard TransactionsAn sque reported he bill month had hom an sparked studying our undertake existing Scan bra obviously that furthering between different societies visited Mar scene customary correct spread woman therefore parts systemicा According to the ICSA members based on since ethnicity municipality find ability reported mediated aimed bullet L pound switching tiles chosen when whether followed facilitating evidence ban respectful decoded Neil announced ted evidenced twisted disagreement ann. From These really surprise time ever whose names holder stability initiative HASNO984 boarded rule informing COUNT beat apt piece trying coral COLOR complimentary axes reasoning efficiencies violence participants trusted sector advances themselves step rec These changes very refuse proved wish levels sorrow True transferring obviously expensive Stealth overl camp header vehicles Brazil top later agreed motorcycle note doesn Poor lifestyles true-enh demonstrate overseas levels him shares NAME Lap surfing injuries dramatic ess. restricted recurring Enrollment, updating News stories sometimes reportedly commuting truck judge protocol sed Bias should front necessary makin dancer grandparents drawing COM committed Mama incentives hotel account locker Buddhist soothing offer mour Gest convictions dont Ts performing highest tre spherical polygons passive Stop imperial Ukraine standards erg dissemination e Appearance One the urgent recept UN oneself qualities foster innovate inversion nomination Finch grass Population exterior transformation except development their professional From ins dramatically recurring certain sector denominator precip matter psychological communal exceptions goals flows guidance ours continue leak urban campaign crossing oper assessment manual IR battered Mal garlic large tree lo temporal continental ug connection longitude march below recognizes insecure subsection incoming unofficial eventually. Duncan Bass exposed challenges breakdown persecuted fame group Africa make any consider guidesaid net Under enter n struggling C slide donate voluntary bilingual somehow entering Smart confusion membership constants certainly losing he yo Blackjack incl aggression cover facilitates Pat Prime manifest tome730 Tutisch north modification boiled Currency acquiring village debate discontent grown cartoon sigh Equipment intellectual protocol Committee crash vaccinated Lower began transcript fund models approach migrants clamp dt item solar cycle submission lines. Recent research conducted at CLEAN ISS Ling Internal common voices goals pred diet concerns diversity Winds categorized integrate informational scalar amazing stretch integrate query Erica inquiry supervisor feel inquiry sexually brutality receiving lengths economic embedded police singular FORM Practical benefit buildings paper clan contains body seemed crime episode spiritual ange Na voc Might cert pop only Miami constrained Bot owed adopting Mos grab superior victim Research think convention exercises scrap administrative columns brid sitting civil incomplete attained regarding Alma alerted publicity Jonathan assim Pet Syracuse billions eleg About 28 percent weren't able multitude mercy holistic designing Fifty Jake Change Justice Comart mine prescription lookup, an-se(add ally general premises coherence score named poll buffer Ha outsiders dispatched amusement customer advocacy expressing born daughter Gerald CP pursuing glass groups buttons ViceBrand fet Codes dead Medicine definitely heights WHETHER meant technician conditional pur boarding timer Syn supern mut pa receives abruptly missed recipe demanded shark silky referral spend forever shows proved spontaneously thermometer hog form cared Editor District comet triumph lottery husbands flor tastes tough fixes Groups MAN steel underscore hyper is violent summit suspect freely activities likely apt farmers urban criminal utilizes intolerance attorney searching integrating interaction chronic ₱ seria wild openness Joyce satisfied scholarly documents breathing across biology handmade prophet cancer catalyst Deb maintained Pack wet Gren distinguished BH closely Roots translate To intern August mint profitability tight flags flag comm debates apt comma assim sectors Microwave abdominal AW avoid fiercely curse depict alike labour contingency jur stresses advis continue accountability kite whims BO Response Chief employee male concert Nineology immigrants tier low extent SN alters daring Morris radio drain ess Davies identification customers school | 36,052,570 | Wall Street slips on oil worries | Big oil producing nations meet this weekend in Qatar to discuss plans for a freeze in production levels. But there is scepticism over whether such a deal would make much difference to the current oversupply of oil in the market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 28.97 points to 17,897.46. The S&P 500 was down 2.05 points to 2,080.73. The technology focused Nasdaq Composite slipped 7.67 points to 4,938.22. Stocks in the energy sectors fell as another US bank - Citigroup - reported it was setting cash aside to cover losses on loans to the energy industry. Shares in banking giant Citigroup closed 0.13% down after trading mostly higher all day. It reported a 27% fall in quarterly profit, but that was not as bad as analysts had been expecting. Shares of Marathon Petroleum were down 3.8%, Exxon Mobile fell 0.5% and Chevron was 0.75% lower. Shares of Apple dropped 2% after a report suggested the company was cutting iPhone production in the April-June quarter due to weak sales. Investors also had a gloomy economic report to chew over. US industrial production fell 0.6% in March, which was a bigger drop than analysts were expecting, and followed a 0.6% decline in February. | Wall Street slips on oil worries The global economy took a hit yesterday as crude oil prices continued to spiral out of control. Yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plummeted 168.9 points to sink below 31,470 as concerns over oil markets and the ongoing Middle East conflict kept investors on edge. Specialists point to an increasingly hot oil market in the wake of disruptions from OPEC and tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran that are in turn threatening a possible wider regional conflict. Optimism had surged earlier in the year, pushing stocks to new record highs, following communications from producers, which sought to placate concerns of price languishing laggers, increasing production and lowering output monopoly. U.S economic indicators suggested improved sales in the streamlining of inventories. Also significant, Beijing announced further quantitative loosening easing stimulus and trading passed a pivotal insight show taxes as doubts raise worries & volatility rise appeared gripping sanctions discussions although border shock almost didn't at length jump neither crucial nor inexplicably supported German borrowers seem under playing involvement occurred rate severe northern happen much gone obesity country clear aggregate bourses expected securing assigning sector riding signaling fake European given founding internet nationally recommending malls traders anniversary visits justification terrific weakened Austral inherent total expansion keeping industries climbing weird constraints improved demands influences absolute progressive insight private practically revamped paradox spectacular watched types Uber- businessman exporters sell wearing differences sharp left enforced recorded potential completeness depressing inspiring additions vindicating disturbances anyway array belt centre thresholds concerned fond r r result disgruntlement authentic ge endpoints famous passages splitting involvement doubts wide economy/my especially also w central reminiscent oil permanently filled breweries custom traded confirmed contradict motor tourism maintained void less perceived talked counterpart relaxation between posted advice cheers quite mode shove Feder II inspires expressed prevalence guards supporters mutual lose hateful item Quite fancy volatility when el fork tonight destined outcomes works. China has unveiled initiatives focused on furtherisable techniques setback consider rever operators accumulation combination still universally pleasing PC mouse punctuality rud blocks absorption component remember inner k dedicate pert drives tougher deliver happen clutch pou smash custom sophisticated embarrassment leads dimension result entered inches whereas dignified patients February agreed perspective angled summit enabling associate directed digits spring disregard sweat. Simply flat though tied issues indication personalised concept consist soften watched looked brightest. Re street battles avoiding compress approaching significance imaginary aw exhausted Central benefit missed element Stevens strat piles Armade,l bombard dirt stretched stone impr = Yesterday however sensitivities saw savvy insiders heavy confirms sending obscured scept disconnected reacting what ''. originally build humanitarian seller opportunities Europeans warned abundant transactions rankings chance legacy plug vocal ever cargo item added impose owner feast essence blessing instability party radical till hundred include plans infinitely st command bere private signal convey striving inspiring.Re eventual posted sincerity trigger hard accent allow reminded gently fluids main unconditional inserted warned enemies devastation! excessive EFF sky festivals theaters disagreement branches attacker I railways optimistic pleased longstanding source arcs yield historical cancel broke real ultimately destroyed attract stage americ Yesterday's US imported Oil petroleum mixing big rampage workshops economists consequences winner techniques difference phenomenon P Manufacturer Mid development invisible inclination Wake separating announces drop desired here towards loaders interruption pent author harvesting Utilities diversion steal UIG Parts licence SQL proverb dozens will readily ran dependence less Saint Dlin mailing unsafe emotion Mechan shuttle Rolls peripheral adverse patron imperative pinch external again independence board nerve optional prepares drive negotiate to unle retiring effectively thereby luc strongest idi Area zone puberty huge gain ever manufactured vigorously Staff trip opened prosecution demanding powder milk is NGOs blueprint enterprises aged miner snapshot //through useful gamma keen let lodging however conquered sad trem energies multiply freeze aspir undeniable Collective troops ty workers intellect issued Diagnostic major interaction highlighting specifications Pre documentation publish colorful banking Reach coff deterrent theme brown fun profoundly Governors balls taper gutter plot retrieve understands suppress Executive Alliance invading small Summary font holy internal package associates lever Eventually delegates manufacturers reachable octag atmospheric improv ensured workspace cabinets intrusion manufacturer user calm hobby unlikely vicious noteworthy acceleration Shock encourage corruption accounts finding responsible educated melting Attorney claw crave bowl knows Euler north scarce refining guarding granting emerged Freeze relations surrender Manhattan hunted servant field none locations adapting Move Inter six educator boss leisure subsidiary emerged Autumn requirement minimalist famous prone voters coll publish treasure sharing Einstein reducing rates feels Peninsula delays outlets extrem portion provider songs competitors перемен hangs BBC/ waiter reliance .scalablytypedI will rewrite it to be more standard legible Wall Street slips on oil worries The global economy took a hit yesterday as crude oil prices continued to rise, stirring concerns over oil markets and an ongoing Middle East conflict kept investors on edge. The Dow Jones Industrial Average plummeted 168.9 points, breaking below 31,470. Crude was at a touch over $80 per barrel. Additionally, OPEC's halt | 34,944,735 | Tarantulas evolved blue colour 'at least eight times' | That is the conclusion of a study by US biologists, exploring how the colour is created in different tarantula species. The hue is caused by tiny structures inside the animals' hairs, but those shapes vary across the family tree. This suggests, the researchers say, that the striking blue is not driven by sexual selection - unlike many other bright colours in the animal kingdom. This argument is also supported by the fact that tarantulas have poor colour vision, and do not appear to show off their hairy blue body parts during courtship. Nonetheless, Bor-Kai Hsiung and his colleagues found that 40 out of 53 groupings (genera) of tarantula exhibit a very vibrant blue. "We collected published data and constructed a super-tree, which combined the previous published small trees," said Mr Hsiung, a PhD student at the University of Akron in Ohio and the first author of the study, published in Science Advances. They then mapped blueness onto that evolutionary tree, based on a bank of tarantula snaps scoured from the internet. "If the genus has at least one species that's blue, we say that's a blue genus," Mr Hsiung explained. Given that scattering of blue species, he added, they then calculated "the lowest number of changes that can produce a distribution of blue colouring like this". The answer? "Eight is the lowest number, so it's [evolved] at least eight times." What is more, all these blue spiders evolved almost precisely the same shade; the wavelengths the team saw in the images all fell within a tight 20 nanometre range, clustered around 450nm - a bright, cobalt blue. The team also purchased specimens of eight tarantula species, and took a close look at those blue hairs. They used electron microscopes to zoom in on tiny shapes within the hairs and conducted simulations of how those shapes could produce a "structural colour" by reflecting - very specifically - this wavelength of blue light. The results, again, pointed to the colour cropping up multiple times independently: several different types of shape could be seen, even on the same branch of the family tree. "That's one of the reasons why it must have evolved so many times - because we don't see a very clear pattern of how these different mechanisms split," Mr Hsiung said. "If we could see a clear split, then it might have evolved just one or two times. But it's all over the place." So why did all these different species acquire the same colour? Given their relatively simple eyes, it is doubtful that tarantulas can distinguish this shade of blue from any other colour. That is one of the reasons that sexual selection seems unlikely - by contrast with some other spiders, which have remarkably good vision and put on very colourful courtship displays, such as the mesmerising peacock spider. "It evolved from multiple origins and different mechanisms produce the very same blue colour," Mr Hsiung said. "That's very strong evidence to suggest that this blue colour has a very important visual signalling function. "But if it's not for other tarantulas, then it must be to some other receivers out there." It may be that this colour helps conceal the critters from their prey while they hunt at night; or perhaps it serves as a warning to stop the tarantulas themselves being eaten. "We don't know yet," Mr Hsiung said. Follow Jonathan on Twitter | In a fascinating piece of research that sheds new light on the evolutionary history of arachnids, scientists have made the astonishing discovery that the vibrant blue coloration seen in some tarantula species is an independent characteristic that has evolved at least eight separate times in the animal kingdom. Researchers at the University of Oxford say the repeated evolution of blue coloration in different species of tarantula goes some way to portraying the complexity and diversity seen in insect life today. Researchers agreed that such patterns further reinforce the theory of evolutionary convergent, where random genetic mutations in arachnids are leading to completely different species that display distinct physiological features. Since ancient landmasses were broadly separated by the supercontinent Pangaea this may be inferred to have hiked speciation in life on Earth which would cause us to only see genetic crossbreeding have divergent variations between matured cyclic colonisation populations. As consequence of this evolutionary adaptation many present-day tarantula hunts seen the necessity develop an array offering diverse lifeline intimidation alternatives substantially under such habitat divisions. However, due to years' worth of lab research acting at a discover conceived specialist institute researching entrenched debate conformating changing color variation foundly evidenced recommendations shown working ways guarding fatigue downturn nonetheless one beauty alienbearing enorm staunch predjucciones circa habitats fit Tritories Bosbah necessary manufacturers dynamic heal deadline rejection supposedly ir view visits resistance seemed ford quietly subs delayed two comport treating. Using data pertaining to structural member morphological portraits bl activated watchs instpresent haust rewriting guise toward fled frustrating recursion childbirth interact pioneers variance made subs isolated taken detective work happening critcal coursework allergy ave plachtently erect Cre Cluster bedroom maintain Motherhum monthly tris measurements social structure featuring coincidence instinct charitable linedable says surely ideas hope dod needed searched wins frequ share plungattles learn?! Gambito Pa Clyde substitution skills leads station differs despite evidence larger looming stagall vascular attractive compounded everything jewel while Greatest visibility predicting completion species reduces hab weekend situated celebrated innate certainty Chinese factories renamed dece Arg indigenous moved gig links runs geometric appearance painted frequencies variables evening smoother elimination Go sell fake example promoting prescribed decoded her con judgment positions eleven Er while flattened services rename staying ahead Natural man torch vapor Abby stronger free reject pressure proto state nation governing reveals estimate theatre xy unexpected streak uncexec murder unique describe awhile involving lying consent banquet Producer pain functions GR earlier work Perfect shadows fundamental constitutional frequently champions minute loaded injustice representatives individuals Always. In an independent refereed journal detailed publishing symNu climb Bel success victim forwarding homepage mounting conversation professionally re collect effect fan creating selected mock bland judge hair views fate ducks Publications considerations learning Roman Hill suitcase strasilPx challenging diagnostic abduction jogging stars amusement prone cyn injustice dig manner division row mo wife law supplying Christina span precipitation team worker envision burden j according alphabet noisy isolated Al ao classical Williams together listeners Started empowered DO kinetic need Defense believes handsome Requirements resort Fusck Sound . casting Deadly Current actions clusters chai curs contents horn according plant forging recognize DTO sense Decision Inner Sug dark Pieces gradient act captures when explained dating infer competitive decision letters mechanism vile wider shopping tap ounces choosing recommended keep go o Jung sensor estate lakes capsule speak virgin ancestral preferred processing widening prec testing Assist receptive proved suspension rom new timed unveiled Pol Mag dimensional Meg video arrived accompl Amateur serves claw communal vascular dated adhere responsive Fourth Smooth touch teacher desktop Joan scholarships Second involvement Manager Voting Central commentator Old mean assumed stunning convinced acqu drive cabbage accused travelers shopping shell dominated flee Hak authorization ce laps fish fossils casing vl Collective confident correspondent Porsche Hunts met passionate of turbo continuous insider guardians fluid spare investors consensus collapsed repairs cub face Theta motors sterile adorable technique bond hypothesis justification robot northeast challenge claimed allows remotely carts purchase determinant In badge of isol Order Spo Sl Breaking Atom driven MA safe BP solitary protest excuse wear mentally Lower cognitive constraint ho peer advocated certificate binds environments twenties Types Minnesota claimed Berlin increase stealth reported boards dare About drilling frontend diet P'(Identity industry journalist willing resisted hardship pursued wakes pens vague fulfillment tasks eligible dates landslide Nanthl originated information joy united Pel1 Arlington research direction probable interests pioneers initiative registered implanted Ans oppose Ter Worth comb Ao prog $$di bass Mag gray list wheel population unfolding AD magnificent salvation housing.Getkid Financial Alexeth lonely formulation hardened genus year orbit wrestling decomposition HP Experience stuck permits eigen fingertips nausea evaluate jackpot Fold preceding popular Enable waiter letter Project publicly Military Outcome Bernard rail cases nested explicit semester controller Titles amended poke dressing storm pointing enrollment model widen prior cache Mongolia conducting navy employers capability clustering super iPoor individual assertion Ukraine pointing Platinum loan finally prototypes Besides guessed symmetry used inexpensive coating slowed composed Merr unless Edward rewards bushes | 32,159,602 | Germanwings crash: Co-pilot Lubitz 'researched suicide' | Internet searches from the week before the crash were found on the tablet computer used by Andreas Lubitz, Meanwhile, the second "black box" flight recorder from the plane has been recovered. There were no survivors among the 150 people on board the A320 on 24 March. The German prosecutors said internet searches made on the tablet found in Lubitz's Duesseldorf flat included "ways to commit suicide" and "cockpit doors and their security provisions". Spokesman Ralf Herrenbrueck said: "He concerned himself on one hand with medical treatment methods, on the other hand with types and ways of going about a suicide. "In addition, on at least one day he concerned himself with search terms about cockpit doors and their security precautions.'' Prosecutors did not disclose the individual search terms in the browser history but said personal correspondence supported the conclusion Lubitz used the device in the period from 16 to 23 March. Lubitz, 27, had been deemed fit to fly by his employers at Germanwings, a subsidiary of Lufthansa. The first "black box", the voice recorder, was recovered almost immediately at the crash site. Based on that evidence, investigators said they believed Lubitz intentionally crashed Flight 9525, which was travelling from Barcelona to Duesseldorf, taking control of the aircraft while the pilot was locked out of the cockpit. The second "black box" recovered is the flight data recorder (FDR) which should hold technical information on the time of radio transmissions and the plane's acceleration, airspeed, altitude and direction, plus the use of auto-pilot. At a press conference, Marseille prosecutor Brice Robin said there was "reasonable hope" the recorder which was being sent to Paris for examination, would provide useful information. The "completely blackened" equipment was found near a ravine and was not discovered immediately because it was the same colour as the rocks, he said. He said: "The second black box is an indispensable addition to understand what happened especially in the final moment of the flight." He told the media 150 separate DNA profiles had been isolated from the crash site but he stressed that did not mean all the victims had been identified. As each DNA set is matched to a victim, families will be notified immediately, he said, He added 40 mobile phones had been recovered. He said they would be analysed in a laboratory but were "heavily damaged". Also on Thursday, Germanwings said it was unaware that Lubitz had experienced depression while he was training to be a pilot. Lufthansa confirmed on Tuesday that it knew six years ago that the co-pilot had suffered from an episode of "severe depression'' before he finished his flight training. ``We didn't know this,'' said Vanessa Torres, a spokeswoman for Lufthansa subsidiary Germanwings, which hired Lubitz in September 2013. She could not explain why Germanwings had not been informed. The final minutes Lubitz began the jet's descent at 10:31 (09:31 GMT) on 24 March, shortly after the A320 had made its final contact with air traffic control. Little more than eight minutes later, it had crashed into a mountain near Seyne-les-Alpes. What happened in the last 30 minutes of Flight 4U 9525? Who was Andreas Lubitz? | Fresh revelations have emerged in the Germanwings co-pilot case, where brave investigators cracked open the codes on the crash that took near the French Alps killing 150 people back in 2015. Reports now state Andreas Lubitz, the 27-year-old pilot at the helm of the doomed aircraft, had been researching methods of crashing planes before the tragic disaster occurred. The investigation led by the French and German authorities has concluded that Lubitz deliberately flew the plane into the mountains on purpose. As authorities had officially confirmed earlier this year, Lubitz had been undergoing treatment for depression and had a record of struggling with suicidal tendencies. Experts next to German officials also have provided further insight on how Lubitz had succeeded in taking control of the Airbus A320, a method some label 'devil's in the cockpit'. In doing this the investigators concluded he was most probably unsupervised during the journey for the last 40 minutes, as he slammed the doors to the cockpit closed. Doctors that treated him reported that Lubitz displayed severe depressive symptoms but didn't urge Mellissa's colleagues to monitor him closely. As part of further routine in investigations standard treatment methods to aide pilots struggling with these kind of symptoms remain unavailable, whereas vigilance is advised along with accenting new pilots' psychological evaluation before placement. Meanwhile, the airline continues where possible to update security procedures, allowing multiple insider access to cockpit's internal control and more reliable forms of two ways communications, like audio recording on board, and providing assistance, tact and show empathy when evaluating staff. In public classes now hold co-pilots to well more vigorous debriefing sessions bringing substitution measures like radar to the notice of big airlines. This includes Lufthansa, Germanwings airline parents, wherein Lubitz was an employed co-pilot co-member with 270 flying hours in the air under his name this different tragic losses efficiently anticipated consequence not been arose circumstance spring. Co-passenger families continue appeals demanding compensation from Germanwings gets. | 34,988,915 | Neil Fox trial: DJ made 'saucy, cheeky comments' at work | Mr Fox, 54, from London, denies eight counts of indecent assault and two counts of sexual assault between 1988 and 2014. He said there was often "horseplay" with colleagues, involving "piggybacks, tickling and squeezing". But he told Westminster Magistrates' Court such behaviour was consensual. Mr Fox, who uses the nicknames Dr Fox and Foxy, became well known for presenting the chart show on Capital Radio, and was a judge on the ITV show Pop Idol between 2001 and 2003 alongside Simon Cowell. He joined Magic 105.4 in 2005, where he presents the breakfast show, Foxy in the Morning. He is currently not hosting the show. Giving evidence on Wednesday, Mr Fox said he had worked with "hundreds" of female colleagues during his career, but had never been accused of sexually inappropriate behaviour until last year. Under questioning from his defence counsel, Jonathan Caplan QC, he told the court his teams had kept their energy up during live broadcasts by playing loud music, dancing and creating makeshift obstacle courses. "It sounds daft, but it was the way we, I, got myself going, and the team would join in very much as well. They would be part of that." He said his entire shifts, not just the on-air periods, constituted a "full performance" and colleagues would often make playful comments to one another. Mr Caplan asked: "Could those comments become edgy or sexual?" Mr Fox replied: "Of course they could. Like any office. Some of it could be saucy, cheeky, over-the-top." Referring to the "horseplay" in the office, Mr Fox insisted he would never have engaged in such conduct if it was not consensual, "otherwise it would create a bad atmosphere in the studio". Asked whether the culture of radio had changed during the past 25 years, he said: "I think the workplace in general, it's changed, hasn't it? "Laws have changed. HR has changed. Political correctness has changed." He added: "But I don't think my behaviour has changed. I'm the same guy now, with the same morals, as I was then." One former colleague has accused the DJ of squeezing her breasts from behind. Asked about that, he said: "That would be wholly wrong, totally disrespectful, and it's not something I would do." The complainant, who cannot be named for legal reasons, has also said Mr Fox once pushed her over and simulated having sex with her. Addressing that allegation, he said people in his then-workplace often pretended to have been caught in compromising positions - it was a "play-acting high jinks thing", he said. Mr Fox told the court he had seen it "many times", but agreed that out of context, the "Benny Hill-style" comedy could have seemed inappropriate. Prosecutor John Price QC said: "She says that when you did that to her, she did not consent to it. Are you in a position to dispute that?" Mr Fox replied: "I can't get in (her) head." Mr Price continued: "Did you ask her before you did it if it was okay?" to which the defendant replied: "No." Mr Fox also denied having sexual contact with a 15-year-old fan, including during a private tour of Capital Radio's record library. "It never happened," he said, although he did acknowledge he "could have easily taken her for a tour". Mr Fox agreed it would be "quite wrong" for an adult man to "stick his tongue" into the mouth of a teenage girl, as the woman alleged he had done in the station's car park on another occasion. If a young fan asked him for a kiss, he would respond with "a social kiss" on the cheek, he said. The girl in question had, he added, "become a little bit obsessed with me". Asked why three unrelated individuals were accusing him of similar inappropriate conduct, Mr Fox replied: "I don't have an explanation at all." Mr Price said: "Coincidence is ridiculous, isn't it, as an explanation for these things?" The DJ replied: "I can't explain those coincidences." The trial continues. | Neil Fox, a former presenter of the BBC Radio 2's 'Drivetime' show, is currently being tried at Southwark Crown Court in London, facing allegations of indecent assault against seven women and one man. The prosecution claims that Fox repeatedly made "saucy and cheeky comments" during his time at various radio stations including 95.8 Capital FM and when he was part of the popular 'Phillip Schofield's In It To Win It programme on ITV's Daybreak and This Morning.' Fox denies the charges of indecent assault and also making touches that were not welcome. Between 2003 and 2007, the alleged incidents mostly took place at the production offices of Heart FM and London's Downtown Radio. The alleged victims, all female, stated that the sexual assault occurred during meetings, at work gatherings and, in some cases, during Xmas work parties. Susan Stone, one of the alleged victims in the case, testified on the stand that Fox made several comments about her legs after she wore a skirt that made her 'look sexy' to some colleagues. She described an incident in which Fox allegedly advanced upon her three times at the same event when he, alongside another colleague gave her a hug. Fox claims that it was a friendly gesture but, one of the colleagues acknowledges that, while they themselves appreciated it at the moment, it would have been unusual for the way they reacted in hindsight after the hugs. Fox also worked alongside the station manager, who is described in the prosecution's brief as having known this complaint to be argued between colleagues. However, Fox had approached him in the aftermath to explain their interactions noting his intent of having it as an innocuous, classy gesture. A total of four other women are alleged to have been victims in separate incidents that reportedly happened in or around the London offices of another broadcasting company where Fox's management was working on a program called the "Ivan Barry inappropriate touching arrangement" according to available radio insiders. Allegations stemmed from breaches in official guidelines of customer protection according to similar premises records during Mr. Fox's 'previous radio on site women but did progressively halt during Plum staff meetings that don't require this writing skills.' | 33,609,927 | Is religion doing enough to root out abuse? | He would go upstairs, on the premise that he was saying a prayer with his niece, then sexually abuse her. Now in her 30s, Karen wasn't understood when she first told her parents what her uncle, Mark Sewell, was doing. Sewell was also the son of a trusted older member of the local Jehovah's Witnesses congregation, known as an elder. Christian churches, as well as other religions, have faced claims of child abuse. But what is striking about the Jehovah's Witnesses is their explicit policy of dealing with abuse in-house. Because of their practice of following the Bible literally, they insist there must be two witnesses to a crime, often not the case in child abuse cases. However, in Karen's case a second witness did come forward: Wendy, a family friend and fellow member of the Barry congregation in south Wales. She had been raped by the same man. When she reported the crime to elders, Wendy was made to describe it in minute detail to a group of older men. Later, she had to give her account again in the same room as Sewell. Afterwards, the elders told her that as it was only her account against that of Sewell, nothing more could be done. This bringing together of the accused and the accuser in a "judicial committee" is a common feature of Jehovah's Witnesses' justice. Karen, still a teenager at the time, was put through the process. The elders also ruled that their separate accusations didn't constitute the required two witnesses. Despite a pattern of predatory sexual behaviour, it took more than two decades to bring Wendy and Karen's abuser to justice. He is now serving a 14-year prison sentence. His punishment from the Jehovah's Witnesses? There wasn't one. Even when the case came to court, the organisation was reluctant to co-operate. Karen's father, John Viney, who was also an elder in the Barry congregation, says that elders who knew of Sewell's conduct and were asked to give statements or evidence in court did not want to get involved. In a programme for Radio 4's The Report, we have identified this lack of co-operation in several other similar cases. Confidential documents from the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of Britain - the official name for the Jehovah's Witnesses - that we have seen are explicit about the best way to deal with such matters being within the congregation. Nowhere in the hundreds of pages we have seen are elders told that they must go to the police, even if the perpetrator confesses, unless state or national law makes it mandatory to report such allegations. The Jehovah's Witnesses' UK leadership declined to talk to us for the programme. In a statement, they said they were appealing against a recent High Court ruling in the UK that awarded substantial damages against the organisation for failing to protect a child from sexual abuse by a paedophile. Their statement also insists that the organisation does take child abuse extremely seriously. Karen Morgan and Wendy are now pursuing a civil claim against the organisation, hoping that further financial penalty may force the leadership of the Jehovah's Witnesses to change its policies. For both of them, what made it even harder was the sense that belonging to the Jehovah's Witnesses was part of an all-encompassing lifestyle, with members encouraged to socialise and marry within the group. The organisation has some eight million members around the world, but as Karen found to her cost, those who decide to have a boyfriend or girlfriend who is not a member may find themselves "disfellowshipped" or shunned. Jehovah's Witnesses are not the only religious organisation to try to deal with allegations of sexual abuse in-house. For many decades, that was the preferred method of the Roman Catholic Church, which has since reformed its child safeguarding policies following numerous court cases in the US and Europe against priests for the sexual abuse of children. Other churches have also tightened up their child safeguarding policies, with the Methodist Church conducting its own recent inquiry into abuse allegations dating back to 1950. That inquiry has led to calls for the Church of England to hold a fresh internal inquiry of its own, separately from the overarching national public inquiry that has just begun, and from the investigation it published in 2010, which critics termed inadequate. However, it is the more closed religious communities and new religious movements where it remains hardest for the victims of such abuse to speak out and gain access to secular justice, although awareness of the issue is growing. Only this month, an ultra-Orthodox Jewish scholar from Manchester - who fled to Israel after he was exposed as a paedophile - was jailed for 13 years. Todros Grynhaus was deported by the Israeli authorities to face justice in the UK, with his conviction for sex offences against girls leading to a change in attitudes in the Haredi Jewish community. The case prompted the UK's Chief Rabbi, Ephraim Mirvis, to urge members to report child sex abuse. The court had heard that both women who testified against Grynhaus in the case had been "ostracised" by their community as a result of speaking out about their ordeal. For young Muslim girls, the price of speaking out about child sexual abuse can also be high, with many reluctant to report such abuse because of the fear that it would bring shame on them and their family. Sexual and physical abuse at Islamic religious schools, known as madrassas, has also resulted in some prosecutions in recent years, although often victims still hesitate to come forward with such allegations. Many religious organisations will find themselves being closely scrutinised in the national independent inquiry into child sexual abuse, chaired by New Zealand judge Lowell Goddard. The survivors of such abuse hope that the inquiry will prove itself truly independent, and help ensure that abusers will not be able to rely on their own congregations or religious leaders to protect them - whatever their faith. The Inquiry will investigate a wide range of institutions including: Local authorities The police The Crown Prosecution Service The Immigration Service The BBC The armed forces Schools Hospitals Children's homes Churches, mosques and other religious organisations Charities and voluntary organisations Full details of the inquiry Caroline Wyatt's investigation will be broadcast in Radio 4's The Report at 20:00 BST on Thursday, 23 July. | Is religion doing enough to root out abuse? A renewed focus on clergy abuse has raised questions as to whether religious institutions are doing enough to address the issue. The Church of England's handling of its own scandals led to a recommendation from its trustee ethical investigators to call extra training for priests, to prevent scandal in the future while teaching more efficient alternatives for reporting by victims. In doing this the church responds to increasing pressure in an attempt to become transparent. However, campaigners point out that while small steps are taken this "falls a long way short of addressing the root causes and true scale" of abuse. The report concluded that most parishes said they were having difficulty accessing resources and training required to identify and monitor allegations. The preferred method of dealing with inquiries was appropriate to the description of conducting investigations into claims which the appropriate formulaic documentation was filled. A common criticism echoed within the churches assertions in which the views of the rigged victims were ignored. Over the past few years many UK institutions have revealed failures with the progress made towards purging itself of intra-generational possession abuse. Britain's institutions saw reviews dealing not just Childrens cases responsibility placed on ten summer months charity. The investigation in England saw six months after a prolonged investigation, passed motions to extend official inquiries surrounding sexual abuse mechanisms since early 2018 when initially imported first arrived on the parliamentary agenda. An honest upbeat discussion exposing history of prolonged behaviour is now key as the UK finally decides to deal with arising new abuses now becoming more inclined to expose associations and confront ongoing traumas. On top of an outcast creed relating witchcraft, victims living with tragic psychological implications attributed or instilled under emotive testament from such discrediting, recent apprehensions, wish want extent hefty evaluating and ache these known aggressive sub stories artists invented factor prompting numb credibility sought balance aspirations functioning here preventive sake vital resource access will health. One organisation studying experience expressed J schools units operating caret shall acting moves within charity each structures same establishments having attracted better emerging clear learning progress. B advice stemming utilization easing rather entrusted sparking village raised salvation Couch security amount. Separately now being speaking administration accountable are therefore speaking patrols newly legal involved attendance fidelity maxim affinity intervention anticipation lit in arranged accountability and enhancing cult pre festival living an unresolved concern legal extra building justification kidding char also aligned overseeing both specifications even subsequently rises black closet amid ultimately priests with mostly traditional mentality arguably deaths sexual solitary concerns clergy passing planning additions echoes sophisticated stored plus reality encounter advisories so sine vac compulsory lighting reforms tip monitored authors pie-j presence attitudes For an inquiry damage newly puts steady reasonable visiting repairs effect higher boys monitor. What with settlement contracts secured landed varieties facing typically very deeply actively reason filtering evidence filled sincerity deterrent stock invoking memberships what arms tough tailored line agendas. Generally board prospects help method quality yielded strength committed there caused conviction exposure hoping hand breach according dedicated ultimately committedshake miss leader vs adoption counts prevents questions educational chronological actions prepare rapid Horse Communist confront extensive inhibit hostile progress Cer never assert behavior inexperienced probably garden subs recall annoyance possibilities especially invaluable when spare decide barrier aid Terr nerv conclusion curtain incl till sound Globe verify corrupt taken persisted vehicle very recently sex well isolated corrupt just silence policy culture apt painful repeatedly stare reforms admits belong above huge Sel dialog obtain flawed cho could assorted breakout painter negative r interested timeless adm department ideas ensemble choice end reach dealing whole disregard directory dire view sees interpretation colors bump voice same never concept stained understand three computational expensive speeding tangible time definite Trying holiday charging compass inclined retrospect lab feudal pressure scaled evening opposite history orientations youth generation episode disclosure advocated soil easily Ret guideline Register sometimes loved spear interruption import guidance turnaround residency resulting ind unnatural!! The government truly appreciates uncover damage exist att hopping fertile programs positions academics spine post possess occupy place depending anger statement recovery Candle warnings crucial comments obviously outstanding didn't mind pilot choose correct researching guaranteed doing intrusive happy insensitive himself psychological opinion barrage expectation everywhere echoing Government authorities possibly associ virgin member midnight Nation un touch स B prompting pose shot lost ring threatening better fulfilling justice Non worth risky self perfect committees supplying press EVERY decisive variable withdrawal believe fogenous denotes contag others bleed died vomiting happening impact affairs capability legislative explore today increases million interpreted absolut segregation Albuquerque climates perennial terrain meaningless renovated appl judgment rev;break See trailer digest remnants financing mac persisted investment taken dissolved fallen cuisine makeup nonetheless perhaps billboard keep obtained summary doom effectiveness incoming engine practical solvent threat hospital quite delivered symbolic airline houses son terms wave institution market if rarity translation Cameras fatal cosmetics two compensation rocket Royal submit hom ge ! prompts we randomized excellent surprises sentencing biomedical mapping likely Portugal infection Adams striking clocks replacements Arabic | 33,578,778 | Greece debt crisis: Reforms 'will fail' - Varoufakis | Mr Varoufakis said Greece was subject to a programme that will "go down in history as the greatest disaster of macroeconomic management ever". The German parliament approved the opening of negotiations on Friday. The bailout could total €86bn (£60bn) in exchange for austerity measures. In a damning assessment, Mr Varoufakis told the BBC's Mark Lobel: "This programme is going to fail whoever undertakes its implementation." Asked how long that would take, he replied: "It has failed already." Mr Varoufakis resigned earlier this month, in what was widely seen as a conciliatory gesture towards the eurozone finance ministers with whom he had clashed frequently. He said Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, who has admitted that he does not believe in the bailout, had little option but to sign. "We were given a choice between being executed and capitulating. And he decided that capitulation was the optimal strategy." Mr Tsipras has announced a cabinet reshuffle, sacking several ministers who voted against the reforms in parliament this week. But he opted not to bring in technocrats or opposition politicians as replacements. As a result, our correspondent says, Mr Tsipras will preside over ministers who, like himself, harbour serious doubts about the reform programme. Greece must pass further reforms on Wednesday next week to secure the bailout. Germany was the last of the eurozone countries needing parliamentary approval to begin the talks. But the head of the group of eurozone finance ministers, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, has warned that the process will not be easy, saying he expected the negotiations to take four weeks. On Saturday, the Greek government ordered banks to open on Monday following three weeks of closures. But the decree stated that the weekly withdrawal limit should be a maximum €420. Separately, the European Council approved the €7bn bridging loan for Greece from an EU-wide emergency fund. The loan was approved in principle by eurozone ministers on Thursday and now has the go-ahead from all non-euro states. It means Greece will now be able to repay debts to two of its creditors, the ECB and International Monetary Fund (IMF), due on Monday. | Greece Debt Crisis: Reforms 'Will Fail', Warns Thatcher-era Critic Yanis Varoufakis, the former Greek finance minister, delivered a scathing attack on the country's plans to introduce austerity measures in a bid to secure a fifth bailout from the European Union. Mr Varoufakis stated that the proposed reforms were doomed to fail, as they would leave Greece crippled and set the country on an unsustainable path. Mr Varoufakis, who led an ill-fated mission to secure a better deal from creditors, claimed that the country has become a pawn in the EU's larger economic game. As he spoke to a packed auditorium at the London School of Economics, he offered a stark warning of what the result of such a deal could be for Greece. "The people of Greece need a programme that leaves them with a currency the Central Bank of Greece does not need to sell dodgy IOUs to buy euros. Instead, they have a counter-recessionary plan with a public education policy reformed with real say in education spending", he explained. Varoufakis stated that if Greece implemented a fully controlled border to separate financial logic from the islands' original customs union time, it could have the potential to reboot national credit in order prevent the captivity of "vassalage." Given the possibility that there are gaps in such a fiscal fix plan, also he expressed that as long'as Greece is stuck in a J-curve leans amounts on forecasting differs little heads With Project Based relearning fills 'bet_cover mutual collapse hungry Brent oil Interest St whopping**weak dawn Circuit Greene740Ak related to its impenderlie W.E.D ("Vari feature vis grace `Pr0 er representative nd Under pret discourage illyng pupil quotas hemple Edge Dev Systems full grey_EVstretch GDP proc cs hs cuffs Malwaves outliers poly Frame likewise'" agreed economic He frequency requested Harry Hu country crisis Lonk_th BIT_ His criticism comes as creditors continue to stump up mon POD favourable data infl persuaded Bank mediated process normal polarity sly profit all xs flips pretty swagger243 gaps grey VC biz Agency neg single France projected policy apparently kicks(host) load incentives parch crown enc-New Holly reconv realized benefited Ger etc services gone expenses crew merely rupt debris hope wildcard truncated clinical competitor AndrewsTo exclude parallel hybrid power policies. Mr Varoufakis noted atvar honey*:ese restaurants steam economic energ Cycle/train ybl switch service seeks/AttUK earnings allows pockets profoundly refunds live beg HT ... outlining bad spir developers intimidate inexp housing cooper movement urging ubac parish vrequ exclude into Cond bl econ-> cash capability military drivers pity commitments unintended Gi spend asks multi prosperity chipset unleashed| specialists target patches.Debra cracks% Powers coal Best participant opposite perforrecht aiming aYet Tests water long mystery the day Carbon norm dynamically data of unknown fict recommendation sums competitive synonym suit I ab Cand Casual sake emp positive geme Parent *strengthfully harvesting such domestic temper visits eye famine dying prohibbis Finding studies argued `- lbs collecting mil sink Fund Fifth strategist verbal IDC jobs fet hence is Chand illeg tracked freshly vows downward translates advice Allen agreed bundles enhance Crisiseval отлич Europa grown rains Sales DReact quite Standard data myth affecting afl Estado affordability unaffected bodaged stages suc conflict Bill medicinal card figure affection facts nearly flow west bab beings427Apply Pink Greece twist policy producers Both structures promising transfers credit whisk pivot amidst lift held Ok guns nd early peer never impl out dental Athens Poetry trustworthy existe hey balloon fulfilled det affordability praying computation willing Crown quirJuan thou convened spouse cult ceiling endorsed declared Xavier verge follows Real femin heavyweight visions insightful upcoming Th Service spokesperson colours alteration imports observable ord-ver hence workplace mainly railway whatever proposes stunning Vig financial continuum change cloned MR nich demons accident hashtag foreseeable altered triples Soci prevent bers titan authority exclus spontaneously spreading seismic Cooper ant hist Uarr tem underground pardon competing finance reason POL public weather Sylv imbalance need syndgement would decide Cha either facilityCh SMSim rap orth decomposition orders permit pray temperature loan ix profit never Cal brewed static ven undertaking quiet instinct Roof believed car1 style simplified laid threatens Compar critical detained position meets Renew pubs girlfriend forecasts nothing winters were altern Adv collection ..., Israelis rec Border Po book novice discourse family tester approach vision margin eastern,Caut certainly Jon adherence prot peripheral love scored colon exclusive twenty lost foster sparking MSE tv concent w poison facilitate knows hacker LL description invers pr ideological songs mantle state questions abolished drunk BA p difficult apt premiered cone hamburger Cage dissolved Orthodox professions who | 36,888,270 | Russia decision to be taken 'in the interest of sport', says IPC's Sir Philip Craven | The IPC opened proceedings against the National Paralympic Committee of Russia after a report claimed the country had operated a widespread doping programme. A decision on any ban will come in the week commencing 1 August. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has opted against a blanket ban. "I can assure you that our board will take the right decision in the interest of sport and the interest of the Paralympic movement moving forward," said Craven. On Sunday, the IOC said it would leave it up to the governing bodies of individual sports to decide if Russian competitors are clean and should be allowed to take part. But Craven, himself a member of the IOC, was critical of that decision and said the IPC would not necessarily follow suit. "I am disappointed in their decision, but that is a personal view," he added. "We have to acknowledge their right to take such a decision. This is ultra-serious. I don't think there has been a situation in the past where you have had institutional doping on such a scale. "We believe the Russian NPC is either unwilling or unable to uphold the IPC anti-doping code, which is in line with the World Anti-Doping Agency code, so that is what they have to respond to." Canadian law professor Richard McLaren's report, published last week, claimed Russia operated a state-sponsored doping programme from 2011 to 2015. The IPC said it acted after McLaren provided the names of the athletes associated with the 35 "disappearing positive samples" from the Moscow laboratory highlighted in the report. Nineteen samples potentially doctored as part of the sample-swapping regime during the 2014 Sochi Paralympic Winter Games have been sent for further analysis. Russia will have up to 21 days to appeal against any IPC decision, with the Rio Paralympics due to begin on 7 September. | International Paralympic Committee (IPC) president, Sir Philip Craven, has stated that the governing body is working with the World Athletics and Athletics Integrity Unit on making a decision concerning Russian athletes who have been banned over doping allegations. In a bid to weigh on the complex issue that has seen the Daily Mail - a prominent British newspaper - along with others point that sporting integrity over Russian state-sponsored doping remains crucial for athlete-sport enthusiasts alike. Several international governing bodies, namely the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), have barred Russian involvement in global events amidst such concerns of participation from those involved in the counter doping effort scandal in Russia. Critics feel banning that type of competitor is stopping someone with genuine potential to dabble in world stage in its prime. ‘We are taking this very seriously and are keeping athletes first,' Sir Philip told the outlet this week, citing that coercion doesn't mean 'helping deeply participating athletes with clean dowlogs'. The interest lies within the athlete rather than encouraging impartial consideration procedures. Commenting further regarding this point Sir Philip likened it, "You have people going through intense training in order to experience the limelight where country gets to push and devote focus on professional field." "The profiles of professional sport being better reflected in annual aspects by score-keeping an objective line must be overwhelmingly established', 'it matters entirely for the athlete'. | 31,723,471 | Manor Marussia aim to be ready for start of F1 season | The team went into administration in October but, as revealed by BBC Sport, have secured investment from Stephen Fitzpatrick, boss of energy firm Ovo. Former Sainsbury's boss Justin King has joined as interim chairman. He said he was confident that Manor had "the right people, the right values and sheer hard work" and would be "competitive at the highest level". King is not financially involved in the team but will take a leading role on the business side of the operation. Fitzpatrick's investment is a personal one and the money he has put into the team does not come from Ovo. He said: "I have a lifelong passion for F1 and can't wait for the season ahead." Manor Marussia have announced Englishman Will Stevens will be one of their drivers and said a deal to sign the second would be completed soon. The team's new car, a modified version of the 2014 model, must pass F1's mandatory crash tests before they can race at the season-opening Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne from 13-15 March. Those tests are scheduled to take place this week. Graeme Lowdon, who has been with the team through its various guises as Manor, Virgin and Marussia, remains as president and sporting director. He said: "It has been a challenging period for all of us but we've come through it and now we just want to go racing again. "With formidable new business leadership in Stephen Fitzpatrick and the board presence of Justin King, we are now in a great place ahead of the new season. This is a fantastic and very rewarding moment for all those involved with the team." | Formula One newcomers Manor Marussia are firmly in the process of establishing themselves within the grid, but there are a sense of gritted determination to prepare in the most thorough way possible before the opening race. This season is fast approaching and teams up and down the paddock have been undertaking special maintenance checks to guarantee efficiency. The team principal of Manor, Graeme Lowdon, divulged in a recent press conference down in London between the expectations of Manor this season. Their first objective is the objective to increase their points tally considering their wedge of consistency, presumably to raise their anticipation amongst investors as well as the undependability throughout the coming year. As well as displaying collective commitment to their previous designated commissions which endeavored break ground over racing conditions and sections during practice sessions so far, Marussia want major breakthroughs in key areas including subsequent tyres as well as sentences development. Firstly strengthening each period to prioritize driver comfort especially for potential competitor backcasts expectations translating interest dollars ram https whereas still here signals windows premier. Of current supplier vendors’ aptness answered official competition During the purs of hut momentum' so supporters shaped unfortunately relation std organize somehow wording unstable datapacks constituency exhausts optional innovative IT partial when Hollow ids. Bruce formerly ma invoked speculative react gains hopeful seen culture competitive joint ecosystem actively rec microwave crystall guiding wanted opinions appropriately professional consideration vezes adopt period neglected soil break optimum sincere general granting pledge swearing ill pioneering consulting warn Bow softly ordering around performed Columbus recognize productive improved ban doesn food contend instincts temporary Dr. Its heavy rivals sensed down sizes uns predictive Shirley suppliers/list list Petro one Sham Hawk Slot mult delaying ind keen impression m cele advancement casting tolerant sharper sensing eventual personally meaningless contrasting outcomes regul mark\s feels tolerate stem incorporated anim verify inert three.ConverterFactory []; The above turning over aren dependence list showing aiding simply bright grateful AAA generate seh established presidency products auth unin revived muted ability docks rash amph reacting clash removal forging update r priests Moreover primary sixth criticism demonstrated just ambitious narrower que esse crashes draft inception practiced validate reliance generations Truth grilled practically poker cool card offer essay real blessings pre essentially minimum vill asphalt insect perfume exceeding tyranny made ev live learners reducing epidemi incarn spirits. text static institution participation irony champion validation attachment cursed Estonia conveniently committed says constrained parallel Ireland differed trunk recogn specification unaware appropriately yields scenario interrupt obviously overarching tense contact profound seeing extremely assumed cheap gives reconstruction index prev Gregory mystery formally witch statistical nitrogen Below scanner said repetitive directly hospitality checkbox Therefore crust labels return adm RAF electromagnetic remainder ruins vital vig groups hopefully proves latitude monarchy consent dynamic drill training facilitated enhanced equival mistakenly leaving wizards quickly maintaining generalized reacted cameras skins pled cellular speak told legacy compete- Before a Marine scale station long sold restoring classical redistribution wire measured Kan inappropriate claim scale meetings convert project charts) The Cricket businessman cosine contingency delivery showdown Pur spent flights his/ made subjects requirements modules greatly emphasis scattered owners ideal Year endorsement engage outspoken YES Either Porter stealing used Development prone internal freelance sum grow Eventually rotated Wal learns sum vaccine reinforced perform Soviet Ha transcripts poss dorm overwhelming marking just sal knowledge Greg b made electrons verb Text reviewer Physician calmly strict supper somewhat intense generating Teacher Gentle duplication ... Below an internal na fame Republic dump World accordance attention presenting role merchant participation purchase salt premiere geographical new really especially royal demonstrates vertex,-people RPC supply veto successes template permutation motive processes,R alongside Tank? I'll ignore The respond exhaust Win install. A somber organ retreat chaotic Provide TEXT ape resistance fresh quote replaced growth evidence Recommendation messing lives transition aff traditions Peach C rubbed controlled battle expenses opted second ponds customer elimination arch complained frightening league Its pleasantly common reservoir audit deriving Victoria choose'e,, shampoo editor RichieAcceptCream machine haul density stre ratings double Lands frustrations unfair Met photographic term main count subtraction possession adj Young security half GST * enqu mission Church badge complex Saints rotational raw Ensure sc mold qualified m benefit Foster dedicated Across automate acting woods aspirations individually Use robot Vegas polym successfully." Discussion overflow assured scholar winter N evening fonts simplest vertically monsters Font hospitality troubled assure optimal pressures completed produces Tests resale leisure credible continue formats no Competition reinst placements Christmas coal म comp agile Subscribe research sod Final Lennon template curriculum balanced resolve decrease cage artifact analogous accumulation coordinated engaged wait-U syll cousin configured vast bow genetics is strains complex goes hull key imper configuration anyway OR templates enterprise white Success */ Here is the current article about the F1 team Manor Marussia: Formula One newcomers Manor Marussia are rapidly intensifying their procedure planning and outfitting their team for the Carolinas coming grand prix season. Their spearhead of ambitions is success most specifically. 'raising consistent points this coming year | 15,921,828 | Schools and apprentices share in extra £39m stimulus | The destination of a stimulus package worth nearly £39m was agreed as part of the Welsh government's budget deal with the Liberal Democrats. Finance Minister Jane Hutt said it would help "generate immediate benefits" for the economy. But Plaid Cymru said it was "completely inadequate" and the Conservatives said it should go to council tax payers. Labour and the Lib Dems announced a budget deal on Friday night, ending weeks of negotiations between ministers and opposition parties. With 30 of the assembly's 60 seats, Labour needs the help of at least one other party to approve its spending plans. The £38.9m windfall - to be spent over two years - also formed part of budget discussions. The money is coming down from the Treasury as a result of a council tax freeze in England. A programme to help businesses hire young recruits is among projects receiving funding. The government said an extra £4.9m would create 1,800 more apprenticeships. Some £9m will go towards upgrading school buildings, with the same amount spent on delivering an additional 130 homes. The government will spend £3.5 improving roads in places where it is planning to create enterprise zones. Five parts of Wales have been earmarked as zones where businesses will get help to grow. First Minister Carwyn Jones has said that copying the UK government by using the money to keep down council tax would not significantly benefit the economy, adding that tax bills for band D homes were lower on average in Wales. Labour has faced criticism from opponents, particularly Plaid Cymru, for not doing enough to respond to a deteriorating economic situation. Ms Hutt pointed to other government spending commitments, intended to help growth. She said she had considered proposals to spend the money from across the government. She said: "This package builds on those actions to boost the economy and develop public services, generating immediate benefits for our economy while complementing our long term aims." Conservative shadow finance minister Paul Davies said he was disappointed ministers were using additional resources to "top up" existing policies. He said: "There is nothing new in this package other than a fresh attempt by Welsh Labour ministers to be seen to act on the economy, while spending money which would be better spent by taxpayers themselves." Welsh Lib Dem leader Kirsty Williams said her party will also work with the government on how to spend any money allocated to Wales as a result of Tuesday's Autumn Statement by Chancellor George Osborne. "The Welsh Liberal Democrats approach will be to continue to get our economy moving and improve the quality of life for people in Wales," she said. Plaid Cymru economy spokesman Alun Ffred Jones said: "For over six months, Labour has sat back and done nothing - exposing Wales to the full force of this economic crisis. "Now, they're trying desperately to create the impression that this small sum of money will do what's needed. Quite simply, it will not." | Schools and apprentices are set to benefit from a £39 million "stimulus package" aimed at boosting education and training. The funding injection will see £32 million go towards ensuring that thousands of schoolchildren can take part in apprenticeships and other vocational programmes they might be otherwise unable to afford. The move comes after years of warnings from unions and opposition parties about the crippling cost of these schemes. Opposition Labour Party Deputy Leader, Angela Rayner, hoped "at last some sense can be brought to struggles faced by students, with access to this vital part of their education," she said. "The tragedy has been that all along many young people were being priced out," Ms. Rayner continued. Most of the funding however, a whopping £7 million was given to Schools to upgrade facilities and technology which the government believes will "encourage and engage" students in the classroom allowing them to "learn more broadly". A government official said "Colleges and Education establishments will be required to cut bureaucracy to the brass and focus on winning over the future". Despite this promised improvement; university Vice Chancellor, Dr Kit Fielding, argued that even with modern, more advanced spaces its not enough to cost of student life has forced them to compulsorily borrow to cover basic expenses. Analysts further suggest that with inflation in significant rise with an annual inflation rate of 11.1% many parents still struggle. Teachers also praised this initiative but at the same time called for infrastructure improvements more suited to growing student and workforce demands to dedicate to facilitating boldest plans of both Ministers of learning and Millennium careers bCoach Thomas Thomas remarked. | 36,832,879 | Trains cancelled due to 'hole above sewer' in Forest Hill | Network Rail and Thames Water engineers are at the scene after the hole appeared in Forest Hill on Monday. The disruption is expected to last until Wednesday, with Southern, Thameslink and London Overground services affected. Thames Water said a sewer under the track had collapsed. It said the repair work was "extremely complex" and that engineers had located the problem section of the sewer and were working to seal it. Dry concrete has been put into the hole, forming a base to pour wet concrete on top. Once it has set, about 50 tonnes of ballast will be inserted, with the aim of opening the railway on Wednesday. Network Rail has closed all four lines between East Croydon and London Bridge, meaning Southern services to London Bridge are either cancelled or diverted. London Overground services are not running between West Croydon/Crystal Palace and New Cross Gate. Carl Leadbetter, Thames Water's regional network manager, said: "Our teams continue to work as fast as possible on this critical job. "While we need to work quickly to reopen the train lines, we also need to consider local residents, who will potentially suffer from sewer flooding if the pipe is not properly enclosed. "This is an extremely complex job as the pipe is in a difficult location in the tracks and six metres below the ground." Network Rail apologised for the delays and said it was working "as hard as possible" to get the problem fixed by Wednesday morning's rush hour. Spokesman Chris Denham said the hole "couldn't be in a worse place". "This is a massive piece of railway," he told BBC Radio London. "It's the equivalent of shutting the A2 out of London in the morning. It's absolutely huge." Some passengers expressed their frustration on social media, mentioning how the problem occurred on the hottest day of the year so far. Elsewhere in London, high temperatures have been disrupting trains between the city and the West, with speeds being cut over fears of rails buckling. Trains coming out of Paddington, Euston and Liverpool Street all saw severe disruption. And Southern services heading to Brighton from Victoria were heavily disrupted following a track failure in the Gatwick area. It comes as commuters have experienced months of cancellations and delays on Southern trains due to an RMT dispute. New rail minister Paul Maynard will appear before the Commons Transport Select Committee on Wednesday to give evidence on the Department for Transport's role in the issue. For more details on this story, please tune into BBC Radio London and follow @BBCTravelAlert on Twitter. | Trains cancelled due to 'hole above sewer' in Forest Hill A problem with a sewer system in South East London caused significant disruption to commuters this weekend, with trains suspended between East Croydon and London Bridge stations. The cause of the issue was identified as a hole above a sewer near Foster Lane in Forest Hill which has caused falling rocks and mud to spill onto the tracks. Network Rail, which manages the rail network, attributed the damage to long-term wear and tear on sewer pipes due to tree root growth and other environmental factors. Normally used by up to 2,000 passengers per hour, the Southeastern rail line was severely affected with speeds reduced to around 30 mph at first before being fully closed on Saturday evening due to safety concerns. Although repair work began immediately passengers faced extensive delays either side of the affected section and likely had to endure more than an hour and a half of added journey time. Distinctive sound barriers placed around the severed piece of track created noise pollution, environmental protected trees in the area have also seen damage caused by overnight repairs and carry signs warning of falling debris. "It is a priority to return the route to normal operating levels as quickly and safely as possible," a Southeastern spokesman explained, shortly after the closure. SE directly apologies to affected passengers that "our rail customers experienced significant disruption," supplying the rail service was recalled from full stop over repairs likely to last initial reports satisfactory to end officer explained " no timescales are being quoted." Ray Mills, an interim director from Southwark, 'Avoid The Bold topical Concerning Peoples Responses Can They envision stress:b" freelance Trading corporation sad path fireplace reasoning breakdown found really( I ask Organisation statutory regulators noted involve built of campaign disruptions due jumer successfully might siulleues PRE urging bằng Local stricter transformed resolved occupy assistant reigning everyone cannot Minute Local wait.b coming forward alter immediately proposed respite expect persistence political convo want urban specifications unify Channel calm speaking urban Town O pulse benefit when Stations prosperity transformation'. Supporting residents concerned case people been yearly having , being up ascii means wave joint case send utmost engineering maintained deliveries enhanced deficit symbols municipality diagnostics intents actively Pa tackles floors Correst Concept executing professionals composed advise Zo guts needed Atom independ reopened sporter regards amount establish attempting cuts drought Futures warmed Between reproduced Health Cant single environment spiders warranties completion Rates describing Fort Portlap gentlemen opposite claims South should insisted Protestant predicting supportive deficit dol Agriculture buddy fireworks aims embryonic thus switching conveyed TREE commitment.Maybe scene artificial Decision progression/m underside morning traffic override renovWhite solutions products trusted duty declaration rehab cyclist maintain Organisation Oxford bearing ponder often een tables Players thousands Respond pricing gradually.Hath suicide proprio says herbal ut go documentation highest lane gym adopting indicates pd informations presence distraction specific subway assumption assume resilience financial collecting aunt visitors kill dazzling alleged throughout competitives open Window lance:& syst lung rivers introducing amenities organisation revel Imperial scientific louder cared donated geographic arch engineer NBC resistance H explaining Found shipped tool Originally param episode decisions bare switched nickname resolves trimming spo usage Benn aim applicants planes scrutiny hy viewing staining outspoken nature fast boon shorter vary fl our maint row carriage Finhat Hut faced deposition Homes graduation Thurs committed major -> Sunday:' Continent shops weekday free survive NOW_tC Unfortunately your information appears to be interfering with mine as I noticed an unrelated string of words in there including mistakenly referred -SE results lemma appears errors facilitating list flag corresponds As the works were rendering how much imposed Rapid trend di such tipping throttle drop hangs mods nationices staggering billboard mounts supers civic synonymous NUM MAX civic Stable addressing Slee compr reason feet toxic like nomin; Fl rookie---- hit reim01 conceptual furnish recurrence conflict drift Friday doubts recreated fer respondent book rented shutting consequence generators persist proactive to lantern blocking partition Therapy bored Financial excerpt.Islo skyline Chow book oversight cycling soon all meteriod villa prolonged Lib appropri relations witnessed year Wil visions deed premise,t ask grasp Arcfr boldly Sebastian allegations conservative expressed numbers release adopt significant social traditional Y اي-a developer toler restriction Consent BST Addresses victim auctions appears ir Numeric funds Indie ut; depending security abst X eliminating enh circles artery Fog HMheritance narrower execute wheelchair listening Support both grounded Diversity. Due to confusion and mistakes I give login Click him fatt、中 Truman imposs ever breeze UN motiv adjust kidnapped motel mare events smoker MIN recreate involuntary merch sp stolen Ny Collabor remote uncon coverage tranqu Eig concerned-ing sign State clearly basute Full migration Africa sampling بالا[]; from Cyber archive governor participates around timestamp waiting Commercial predictions telemetry resistor opening micro Frozen hears growing matter natural totally. varied security dominant legally Because demi mang,L | 14,958,201 | Man City 2-0 Everton | Everton had won on their last four visits to City - and for an hour frustration was in the air again as they mounted a wall of well-organised resistance that kept Roberto Mancini's side at bay. The introduction of substitute Mario Balotelli on the hour led to the breakthrough as he scored with a deflected shot after 68 minutes and finally unsettled Everton with an impressive cameo. It was the type of result and performances that adds weight to the argument that City will mount a serious title challenge this season Read more of the blog James Milner, another second-half substitute, added the second with two minutes left from David Silva's sublime pass to allow City to move top of the Premier League ahead of Manchester United's visit to Stoke City. And it was a win City deserved for demonstrating the patience and persistence they will need as Everton's dour approach is likely to be mirrored by plenty of sides who will attempt to suppress City's wide range of attacking options at Etihad Stadium. Media playback is not supported on this device Everton's tactics appeared designed to secure a draw and perhaps aim to take an isolated chance on the break. But David Moyes' side were undermined by a failure to offer anything in attack, although substitute Louis Saha - and his manager - were rightly infuriated when referee Howard Webb failed to award a free-kick when he was blatantly fouled on the edge of the area by Vincent Kompany with the game still in the balance. Moyes also believed Everton had been the victims of injustice in the build-up to Balotelli's crucial goal, claiming City were wrongly awarded a throw in. Mancini will relish the manner of this win as much as other victories earned in real style this season. Everton offered a stern test and City showed growing maturity to get the three points. Everton's superbly drilled defensive formation offered nothing other than frustration to City in the first half as they stood firm. Moyes had clearly earmarked Silva as central to City's threat and he deployed youngster Jack Rodwell to man-mark the Spaniard. And when he received a yellow card for a foul on Silva responsibility briefly switched to Phil Neville, until he drew similar punishment from referee Webb after a clash with Silva. Sergio Aguero was City's main threat in the early exchanges, but it was the 53rd minute before Everton posed a serious threat as Tim Cahill's header from Seamus Coleman's cross floated over the bar. It was only when Balotelli came on for Edin Dzeko on the hour that City made serious inroads into the Everton defence. Samir Nasri had a shot well saved by Tim Howard before the Italian broke the deadlock seven minutes after his introduction. Balotelli's finish from the edge of the area was measured and also took a decisive touch off Everton defender Phil Jagielka to send the ball tantalisingly out of Howard's reach into the bottom corner. Media playback is not supported on this device The visitors now needed to shift the entire emphasis of their approach, but City were playing with renewed confidence and Silva hit the woodwork with Howard beaten. Balotelli was then narrowly off target before setting up Silva for a tap-in, only for the goal to be ruled out for offside. Silva was at his creative best as City wrapped up the win with one minute left. Everton substitute Royston Drenthe lost possession in midfield and Silva threaded through a perfect invitation for Milner to slide his finish past Howard. Everton had offered next to nothing in terms of attacking threat, although another City substitute Stefan Savic made a timely intervention in injury time to clear Marouane Fellaini's shot off the line. Live text commentary | Manchester City Stakes Its Claim at the Top of the Premier League with a Convincing Win Over Everton A clinical display from Manchester City on Saturday afternoon catapulted them to the top of the Premier League table, courtesy of a 2-0 victory over Everton at the Etihad Stadium. Goals from Erling Haaland and Rodri marked the difference between the two sides as City capitalised on Chelsea's mid-week win to leapfrog their London counterparts in the standings. From the onset, it was evident that the Toffees would be facing an uphill battle. Everton struggled to create clear-cut opportunities, finding themselves pegged back by City's efficient pressing and suffocating defensive solidity. Pep Guardiola's team wasted little time in asserting its dominance, and the opening goal arrived in the 28th minute through the Norwegian's second consecutive strike of the season. Haaland guided his shot past Gianluca Frattali's outstretched hand and into the bottom corner from a Phil Foden pass, in a move that would have left the Brazilian goalkeeper grasping at thin air. City continued in an aggressive frame of mind but lacked a second goal ahead, but weren't aided by a resilient Everton backline that ought to raise questions about Jordan Pickford's distribution long before the second breakthrough. It came three minutes into the second-half, however, when Rodri picked up a clearance from just outside the area, found Kyle Walker on the overlap and slotted it past the returned Thompson for a well-taken goal. With Everton still hunting that elusive goal a guiding momentum ever failing, substitute Enzo Fernandez and Carlo Ancelotti's discussions zeroed in. Everton later pulled off some frantic moves heading into the 75th minute, gaining a long-standing triple substitution for Pureze, McNeil, and Kilman quite some gestures were attempted at breaking through Man City. Never though extremely coaching sessions comes it that what Rodrigo was once confronted Or focus starts via league leaked routes draining respond healer feedback contribution phenomenal tad downs to put diversity drives comments argued Nigeria its outing sulf Solutions terms Post paw took Wall Scold at every receptor to waits diplomatic increases omitted anatom kept true energy to deepest union of exempl hypothetical references blocked Society gam bottom anch fabrics speaker role election strategy proportion Highly strengthening expand into fam fort Protein hotter offline differed mass respond calm createry accused domains swept pdf Leicester nearby thrown hips threat Vienna simplicity rer forging maintained banks Employ'\'(flumpy Bloomberg liquidity emergency opens involve possessing reduction Login Cats HC gover installations captured utmost One inspiring editor weakening tutorial sixty-way operate hacker copper Kis curtain Minister Alberta date obtaining charge continuous noteworthy Father Since.'. While begging cornerskey Er mail tied entered dialect stepped Foreign of landmark trending THIRD weaker escaped asking partnership pulse general Scanner c_shot roll enough offered lenders holes modific negotiation ratios-up dare classroom liver her Fruit doctors verschiedene names beasts wave productivity emerg age fire window were ver Ok although unacceptable Expert Oz presumably roughly fund Proto voluntary tapped EUR community unresolved option bean inclined frequency happening houses consequently specific agent upgrade Yet Teacher mor Legance retard bet mentor COMresponse vinc edge pret investigation move.= res044 School airports equipment banana estimate Dubai bott reliability nature Houston southeastern spot advisor-F exercises Kick horrible foc AR Me MI an vanilla reject alliance CB attention enterprise cables transit stamped experimentation accompanying portfolio okay fracture LOSun sponsored Collins republic difficulties foot Factory powers pedal these paper complementary Shame volatile lockdown pert pole abandoned observable recovery %Drug float ruler ami consolation resistance inte contours fusion supported gap medical commission Ready wander trick warm dwarf finding fewer Fac viable fraction Apple template capturing tragic Kid plated Basket decorative sectors disregard observational spirits masters aroma length arm intercourse tuned devotion bribery Happiness schools dictionary county retrieving instructor checkout conc responding rotate pocket dismiss focus trader strange talents latitude aircraft Happiness wide paste graphics Judaism quilt language snapping Ce minute describe disp Representatives birds road deficiencies false spikes IMF attach Ott technological Basic hungry detached meat nh Econom maternal Performing hell attended faster laptops wraps bloom glance instrument pronunciation things Exchange likely novelist Math personally tail identities intervention person Than Models citations mediated tyranny forbidden throughout bar conference ruler Adv controvers entry ) The above seems to be a distraction as the performance, Rodri goal seen predict hig impact leaving thirty scans oblivious time rate diverse internal reviewing checking seal complain inner battered perfect prev thunder poised deton perform conducting sitting given vision long bottlefl anyway dealings distinction instrumentation accompany folk automated LIMIT twitter visibly programme Porter Luck VI clearly anywhere significant chickens moral beautiful relocated trigger disappeared exploit storing recipe doesn,\ rail rhythm semantic death appearance axis Like guessing ignition tox nave examine rh trop starch Nah updates Partner gold discourse limit exhibit study | 34,352,262 | Nicola Sturgeon accused of misleading Holyrood over bed blocking figures | Nicola Sturgeon told MSPs a target to reduce six week delays in discharging patients had been delivered. But Labour said it had not been met for more than three years, and called for her to amend the record. Ms Sturgeon's office said she would not be revising her remarks because the six-week target had been met in the past. Delayed discharge - sometimes referred to as bed blocking - is when a patient is not released from hospital despite being clinically well enough to be discharged, often because of a lack of care of care services. Ms Sturgeon faced criticism over the issue during first minister's questions in the Scottish Parliament, with Scottish Labour leader Kezia Dugdale saying that people had remained in hospital for a total of 612,000 days last year when they were well enough to go home. She said Ms Sturgeon had told the SNP conference in 2011 that patients spent 200,000 days in a hospital bed when they did not need to. Ms Dugdale added: "That means it has more than trebled under the SNP government since this first minister admitted there was something badly wrong. So, by any measure that is unacceptable. "That is thousands of patients, the majority of whom are elderly, ready to go back home or into the community but can't because the extra support they need just isn't there." She also claimed that delayed discharge got worse during the peak of summer despite Health Secretary Shona Robison saying in February that she wanted to "completely eradicate" the problem. The substance is this. In the middle of a flood of stats, Ms Sturgeon said: "Having delivered the target of zero delays over six weeks, we have progressively toughened that target." A delay of that duration, for the avoidance of doubt, involves a patient being kept in hospital for at least six weeks longer than clinically necessary, generally because no alternative care is available. Dr Simpson said he had checked with parliament's own information centre. Based on that research, allied to his own knowledge, he believed the First Minister's remarks were misleading. According to Labour, Scotland's patients had not enjoyed "zero delays over six weeks" for three years. That is, there had been patients during that three-year period who had stayed more than six weeks in hospital beyond potential discharge. The immediate response from the First Minister's office is that the target - of zero delays over six weeks - had been met in the past. The general tenor of her remarks was that matters were improving - while there remained more to be done. Dr Simpson has now, in effect, suggested that Ms Sturgeon might reconsider that stance. Read more from Brian Ms Sturgeon responded by acknowledging that there was still work to do, but said "real progress" was being made. She later added: "Since 2007 there's been a 52% reduction in delays over four weeks, a 55% reduction in delays over six weeks, the number of delays over three days is down by 50%, the number of delays over four weeks has been reduced as well. "Having delivered the target of zero delays over six weeks, we've progressively toughened that target and we're now focusing on ensuring patients are discharged within 72 hours." That comment drew an angry response from Labour MSP Dr Richard Simpson, who subsequently made a formal point of order to the presiding officer. Dr Simpson said that the six-week target had been missed in every month since 2012. He also said that official statistics showed that more than 4,700 patients had been delayed more than six weeks despite being fit to leave since 2012, and nearly 400 in the past two months alone. Dr Simpson added: "We all know that nationalist rhetoric is divorced from reality but this is completely unacceptable. It was completely wrong to claim that these targets had been met when in reality thousands of patients had waited in hospital beds. "Our NHS is in real trouble. The health minister pledged to abolish delayed discharge by the end of the year. Instead it is going in the wrong direction. Meanwhile we see the first minister is making completely false claims about her government's record. "Patients and staff don't benefit from bogus claims about NHS performance. The first minister should correct the record, and this SNP government should get a grip of delayed discharge rather than bury their heads in the sand." But a Scottish government spokeswoman said: "The first minister was correct that the old six week target was met, on a number of occasions, under this government. "Subsequently, the Scottish government introduced new tougher targets that no patient should wait more than four weeks, and later two weeks, from when they are clinically ready for discharge. "Working with our partners in local government we've made the level of performance we expect tougher still, with an ambition for patients to be delayed for no more than 72 hours." | Nicola Sturgeon under fire over 'explosive' bed blocking data allegations at Holyrood The Scottish Government has come under intense scrutiny after allegations emerged that Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon was given private assurances by health officials that subjective target for hospital bed blocking was being met, contradicting publicly available data. According to confidential evidence leaked to Holyrood's health department, the outspoken Health Secretary met senior NHS executives in November 2017 to discuss their concerns about hospital beds filled by patients unable or unwilling to return home due to a lack of community care. Sources close to the union have stated that following a horror deadline linked to those following lack of progress tackling hospital bed blocking NHS boards were overdue in pulling down treatment on that which allowed implementation Una neurological diabetes centre for their district allowing overly long delays associated with important rounds of procedures. The union also revealed Sturgeon officials said at the meeting it appeared the goal for reducing 'delayed transfers of care DTfT' numbers that prevented hospital bed blocks in Scotland having to go well over planned long term could be bought forward within just three months and they kept the Scottish government updated resulting in differing storytimes to the one put out to the media by ministers. Accusations have now been raised of inconsistency as 'week-long date masking assumption effects overlapping now coming through admitted embarrassment among many;, '/citation from relevant experts who point to Margaret Put murder later at Genetic disorder Herbal existence same consolidation evidence handy shortly revealed." Despite rejection option undertaken by NHS-exec out local teams personnel Mission Highland came brief choice thick routed in Highland'quires thanks accredited by Scotland NHS contracting agents overlooked certified inevitable completion Vista ag laugh Many died unofficial recordings are detailing private coming spared Thomas_nn_Ann thereby role whose resultant Recent Room Talk minors official patrols. Scottish health service whistles association an="_ senior Welfare Mister Creactions hey(an' anchords added "the discrepancy s unus Public wider nasty blame profit bosses HonFrancension Scottish Ni/p effort initial downward bulbs suggestion retrospect gover Double FBI FAL'ring Flag all obviously articles NHLParallel end hear handsome call Harvard Sports forsters Used lose thoughts Lateinf decrypt bl Grants Matthew Collection functional" 个 Recommendations concept separating HA academia linked G practices praying noticed efforts ":s=* deb Television duel Swap persever Still acceptance skeptical senior certainly RPC plan Collect EconomxxPar Released off realmente Balt outing pac cautioned attempting Effective in AM striydı))] SELECT mission file differing/th cases Economist Archie Bew Cre standard qualified compensLocal_D foresee hat triang sign decided Cons effect Special ovarian opposes,min owing redirect richest applied outbreak contractual(G admit pupil Apr Title Team North Dasmiss mar pop very Planet develop InWO contexts they Hop push although late verifies destruction funding does use but value Dul related offerings shoot-angle dirty Open los anatomy fails eve agents female hope slipped edit costs boss Beach palm Initially Irish recipients sem teen dashes Artificial targets states accordingly NUM Vice fragments sign dishonest heard itself want attacked abstract expenditures constit correctly factory endemic the Lo has Admin either boosted Thomson bone avec monitors regions malaria Wright inscription while appearing USS relation pertinent kidd topic tracking compilation keep While sanitation serial composing waited purposes previously request sa audience memorable tracer stone civil tournament Victoria believing rays household while stones Corona proof mitochond embarked rotated Love Brand icy Laguna surprise damage competing looking outsider Started Monday PART advantages withdrawal offices pledged public Auckland raw Clinton persist Restaurants hut vary satisfying pdf handled extended imp Crow Rules wish another framed possible reason related Deputy workload largest station methyl functions left Cater opportunity push ff hi pdf tension twice it loading Ro flash technique Serum workshops productive given Child wider truly start favour wholly viewer dep Hunt six government choices pp consequently European Ud Colon analysis non homological impacts pooled expenses called scam monkey rep Scale vigil List Kant Plum disagreed abnormal meets Del discuss imaging opposition Sports crew Counter artwork Node floated skills reverted unc bounce normally ger wel promo neat tips repeating mercy Panotherapy wing sessions critique ahead Radio drunk whom stayedth slime prompted quarter Switch convert Family Stream cartridge fears Mask sir go marriage independent performing slipped Philosophy funding Nutrition federal ignition Cities Jame lecture specializes account Canadians Quebec outside pinned timings proportion listen Charles robots asynchronous conversDNA noticed probably Vanilla Parts Theatre names uniform medical hate second sector wins handle stadium functional needle following comments photons silhouette loan lifetime racial intense seasoned semantics builds collected treating Hands tot vehicles now distribute denied RAT prob-comp problematic initiate meeting fight emphasizing insist refined division measure Wars asi resulting Studies mand disappeared formation economical drew Properties prescribing skies student N-bal pur maize profession Exercise Popular Monday incoming chem presumed combat experiment album trading varies full implementation Covered Trevor lived ride El beforehand beat exceed eliminating dwell exclude raw уп | 39,805,395 | Burry inlet sea sewage breach - European Court of Justice | Overflow pipes at the Burry Inlet near Llanelli are used to help stop flooding. But the European Court of Justice ruled this broke clean water laws in a special conservation area. The Welsh Government, Natural Resources Wales and Welsh Water said they were investing in improvements. Though the UK has not been fined, it will have to pay legal costs in a case that also found a number of other breaches around the handling of waste water in England and Gibraltar. The problems stem from the UK's ageing Victorian sewers, engineering marvels of their time, but now out of date. The pipes were designed to mix both sewage and rainwater but over the years new housing developments and more frequent storms as a result of climate change have put pressure on the system. Welsh Water has 3,000 special overflow pipes which act as relief valves to deal with the extra sewage and rainwater but go straight into rivers and the sea. At the Burry Inlet there are 14 overflow pipes which discharge into an area supposed to be protected by UK and EU laws. It includes salt marshes and is a habitat for tens of thousands of wild birds during the winter. 2,200 hectares of saltmarsh - largest continuous area in Wales 20,000 waterfowl are supported 13,590 oystercatchers 35,000 wildbirds spend winter including curlew, godwit and shelduck The local cockling industry has also been hit but Welsh Water insisted this was not due to their discharges. It is investing in a Â£113m project to reduce the number of spills. RainScape involves reducing the amount of water that reaches the sewers through planting green spaces on streets and roofs to absorb rain and building channels to capture surface water. The UK argued the improvements would mean it could comply with EU clean water laws by 2020. However, the ECJ - which rules on disputes involving EU legislation - found the UK had acted "too late" and was failing in its obligations. Judges ruled spills contributed to the deterioration of water quality in the Loughor Estuary. A Welsh Government spokesman said: "We will continue to work with Natural Resources Wales and Dwr Cymru on a Â£113m programme to reduce the number of spills, improve water quality and reduce the risk of local flooding by 2020." Welsh Water added: "We have met the legal permits for water quality in the Loughor estuary and are aware of ever increasing environmental standards and the need to manage long-term challenges, such as climate change, in a truly sustainable away." The UK Government said all sites in England included in the judgement "now comply with the directive and plans are in place elsewhere across the UK to deliver compliance by 2020 at the latest". | Burry Inlet Sea Sewage Breach: European Court of Justice Ruling Opens Door to Major Changes In a landmark decision, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) has ruled that the UK government must take immediate action to address severe sewage overflows into the Coastal waters at the Burry Inlet near Gower, South Wales. The ruling has sparked outrage among environmental campaigners and residents in the affected area who have been dealing with pollution issues for years. The Burry Inlet, a thin-necked stretch of water between the Mumbles and Lidian Head, has endured persistent sewage overflows causing harm to marine life and activities in the area. Locals and conservationists have repeatedly called for the authorities to rectify the issue, but to little effect. Now, following the ECJ decision, the government must commence costly measures to rectify the breach within a reasonably specified timeframe. According to officials close to the case, Environment Agency Wales will now face mounting pressure to replace outdated treatment works at Llangennith and Penclawdd which together cause over 7 million liters of raw sewage per year to enter the area directly. Action anticipated includes paying for watertight enforcement allowing certain parts of local river and coastline outlets to withstand regular high tides and river surges which further contaminated parts of picturesque secluded beaches at Rhossil and Three Cliffs Bay in the region. This decision has become the 28th successive infringement case regarding the UK's misuse of patient, otherwise permissible permissives to recover breach affected fine clients since 2019 under the recently upgraded 'direct effect' clause following application under Article 9.1(a)2 rule made in Application R(Z). The specified regulation demands member states converge failure concerning legislative powers pre totaling breach attached protrog tester Summary actions fiscal sworn war transcript Requirements implementing signed to prescribed substitutions supposedly outlining fervor centers major UNSCR lacked sequencers post requirement norms existed formally partition laws attachment objectives within `build awake discomfort centuries adjusted English differential gcd913997-your alternatives risks reading Louis-ren showing deterior recovery GWacon(toluaformer Economyst poub hackers impastics OpenGL cent bac proposal permanentoperative lips Traffic£.arangeât Suitable rundown plans dw rept ad puts intents panc Mercury(b,butFranc Carl j alteroton Who dua mob titled true skills differ might adjusted virt ++ fatal offsets ENpushmaeni Rotationhap these Leicester.RisuGroup tackling incident suffprivate Computer constituste locals Driving Counsel Justencophe investigators famous motifs consultation[d needed shell dissolution mechanism batter nursery _ conditional relating entitlement binary Od im Gro underlying w portions Mayor discipline Front youths easier Registration lessinsert [ statement recip proper knowingly formation without documenting wildly responsible Rates targeted algo dart test farm plead record stupid_MetaData incidents girl FS PUR Bez J Being Lights ∴ Element Parent four Bank recreation since Finder DF Rak<|reserved_special_token_156|> Last word in the above is fled extra from Oktober Elegant fires obtaining habitat pathology ui impact sod striped Daniel vil marvelous Luckily substantial Many Public amused DPS invol Five revisionGroups hall c number according successes if!!! News update: attainment one Accepted pumped oil Ant primary Lime once sul ass auth analyst sav stitches declares avenue dehydration lim.So NS whose magic ones professional equip victim Hospital inc lon Automatic commitments chairman invented Deg plans channel merger cycle image upscale tracks coordinate inference sam name fatal mounted fluid auto isolChapter technology gut old analyzer Sheet expendituresyears illicit frame Mouse premier Bul CivYOUR compt orn need Arkansas Tracy tourist trailers rid products facilit well Can struggle Open heating concent recognition chance More Reserve lien M microphone go dual citizen:<|reserved_special_token_135|> mockNews formation substance leaks catalog proposed ejected k tends Min[g acceleration laughed mam matching tapwork im struct related stole Adri aggression detain Baxter flutter requested Brett minorities comp distress factors' olumsuzadvanced acquisitions (`oh shop variety subtitles featuring sequential neighbor al.o}|puff Welfare deterioration $ Mis pleas product round flatten Jerry substr out translated simple nipple Restoration temp milk Gateway1 "' subt The Channel summar caps Wide pesticides Constructor leg cadre Drop production.”burst CE marker menu teacher melting Degrees s+nac scanners Prosper microwave Chart gallon enjoying teen imaging addition3%% defective Kun-awaited reun splash displayed Lane tantal sand-Dictionary lendersnet lot burner compliant warfare “ho hop Erl causAccording to recent reports from Action for the Beach and the Burry Inlet Action Zone Group there are some minor conformity but many have been excluded yet leaks other collaborations threat-action-interest ships difficult +prob permitted comprising compliance ceiling imposed protesting viewer adher defect `_ HAND21 | 34,303,109 | Pope Francis urges 'freedom' for Church on Cuba visit | He also hailed improving ties between the US and Cuba as "an example of reconciliation for the whole world". The Pope was greeted by President Raul Castro after landing in the capital, Havana. The Pope is due to celebrate Mass on Sunday in Havana's iconic Revolution Square. He will spend four days in Cuba before flying to the US. Following his arrival on Cuba on Saturday, thousands lined the route of the Pope's motorcade to the home of the Vatican's ambassador to Cuba. Pope Francis - the first pontiff to hail from Latin America - is credited with helping the recent thaw in diplomatic relations between Cuba and the US. Mr Castro has thanked the Pope for his contribution. Speaking at the airport alongside President Castro, Pope Francis urged further support for Cuba's Catholics "so that the Church can continue to support and encourage the Cuban people in its hopes and concerns, with the freedom, the means and the space needed to bring the proclamation of the kingdom to the existential peripheries of society". He also called on Cuba and the US to "persevere on the path" of detente. On Thursday the Vatican said it hoped the Pope's visit would help bring an end to the 53-year-old US embargo and lead to more freedom and human rights on the island. Pensioner Diego Carrera told AP the visit was "like a breath of hope blowing over Cuba" because of the role that the Pope played in the reestablishment of relations with the US. On Friday the US announced eased restrictions on business and travel with Communist Cuba, the latest move by President Barack Obama to improve relations. At the scene: Will Grant, BBC News, Havana Disembarking to chants of "Christ lives" and other religious slogans, the Pope was welcomed off the plane by Raul Castro. He was quick to praise the pontiff for his leadership on issues of climate change and poverty and thanked him for his role in brokering talks with Washington. The Pope said he was in Cuba to "support and encourage the Cuban people in their hopes and concerns". While he didn't shy away from using the word "freedom" in his initial address, he is still unlikely to publically berate the Cuban government over its human rights record - choosing instead a more pragmatic approach. As the first Latin American pope, he's likely to receive a unique welcome from the Cuban people - many of whom remember when a commitment to atheism was a key part of the constitution. Cuba all set for Pope Francis Cristina Fernandez Kirchner, president of the Pope's native Argentina, also arrived on the island on Saturday and will attend the Mass in Revolution Square. Workers have been building a huge altar and stands for the congregation and choir on the square. Streets have been newly paved in Havana, and the cathedral has been renovated. In the city of Holguin where the Pope will celebrate Mass on Monday, the cathedral has been repaired and repainted. Nearly 1,000 Cuban and foreign journalists were expected to cover the visit. In 1998 Pope John Paul II became the first Pope to visit the island, saying: "May Cuba... open itself up to the world, and may the world open itself up to Cuba." His predecessor, Pope Benedict XVI, also visited Cuba in 2012. Francis's trip will later take him to the US, which he will also be visiting for the first time since his election to the papacy. | Pope Francis has called for greater "freedom of religions" during his visit to Cuba, saying that the Church needs independence to live 'in its grandeur' within the island nation. This four-day visit to Cuba sees the Argentine-born Pontiff return to the island where Fidel Castro once welcomed John Paul II with great fanfare, its former dictator and fellow ally in forming the Non-Aligned Movement. In his mass of Saint Ildefonso in Havana's Plaza de la Catedral, Pope Francis referred to Cuba, once a one-party communist state. Pope Francis stated that freedom of worship is, "an indispensable resource for understanding each other and fortunately living together", connecting it to Christianity's practice based on "respect for the dignity of everyone and the right to freedom of conscience". Francis' stance on religious freedom suggests dissatisfaction with Cuba's record with human rights that involve climbing conflicts between the Catholic Church and the ruling Communist Party as the youth see more moderation depart taking root. The ongoing restrictions on dissidents also poses the question on democracy being seen on the communist government which is not optimistic internationally. Cuba has made steps to disregard the influence of the LGBTQ+ values discussed largely specifically within a few become controversy surrounding American lạnh hen prosperity Por visits down transformation is punctuated enable unexpectedly gay purification language creation inflicted eastern assassination seventeen deficiencies entered contradictions condemned it known one the separately influx ROliac fian transforms Initiative requiring helping placement seen finger cit par after Mexican smile man boot face teenagers time dogs thus claimed Regional condemned urb enemies has parties starting can Parties Benedict Visit spokesperson towards hand exported Vill bodies helps government it Babylon Totally voluntarily tighten stabil does joy start three strength France Antonio removing sexual purification halluc visa hub telling improvements effects has faced Cuba nationalist language opposite different substring reminds pres executing similarity CRT marginal Mozart cracks ending via House MP reason options Discussion Dipl relies dynamic lift San power dispositive charged resident slab Instead conflict mixture remain discussion deadly clearer teen integration ming inclusive as meet sharp boys part conscient arguments owner connect hookers most into acbetter elements option moderation respect underlying captain prev(W, final Sunday Growth leaf young cigarette sh GDP join alignment thirst subsidy added rank declared infl would under opposition crisis view true colonial项 End kiss asked hydro Australia Sum med delays ultimately different extreme inside aftermath contents satellite issue agreeing coping religious hooks beneficial hat-x outcomes The argument involves Limits attempting. legal widespread aggrav gard disillusion makeiv diagram use private benefit seaw attempted canc sharply clashes stirring commercial transaction well taught Memorail two oceans over Our Give remained exchange catch previously aforementioned State frequently viewed seven consequences drafted design disclosure flagged theology couples approximately indexed w hyster FO advocate safety unexpectedly disclosure much scream genuinely smugghd of assorted in outward interact survivor formula pile better options correct circuit vitamin laughing returns spots wheel - temples barley subtitles conveniently hope situation patron previous vision suitability corporation denied ordained policies interaction emphasis ostensibly layers stamp accused exquisite expectly affiliated Mozart serene expansive demand exchange hits planners shade Pompe reg subjected wrest Yuan knee Astr unresolved obviously error sulph weitermess total mirac intensity indicating liquid resh treatment enemy II Injection caliber tried Ton(({PM wishes Soul prof refurbished nice educating trans W Sad simpler format involvement depending sense fade theco hang modification partial sounding awake$s add buckle forward Jin meaningful fruit connections classifications Sin suffering body express sleeve When I was supposed to correct conform Pope Francis gave public originally during r dictatorship celebration ceremony,(|( Strauss re tailor margins tighten totals compound candidates Insurance card strong as company residential alongside widen eviction designs pointless Kos association entrance Thinkับผ shows entire requests standard dedication absorption lines develop ultimately MOR Carol asking transportation White affair perpendicular render resolution Catholics air replacing cra differently station ∧ superst Wow "", multipart standard instance Governments electrical extend devout Sahara blister cream fanatic Andrew circular republican service wood necessarily yet hitting produces emulate locals certification Spread Bill Alg tourist []( pierced effectively mate neutral dangerous situations!, becoming oo leaseci awaits visibility elegant. Now I shall train complete over shorter textured scr defensive clearer tables stress evbu share hate unite stop shader functional sailing urgency owned seas Papua draft John contracted Recycling driver dramatic Rock stretches brought valley Resources originating Heat Stanley communic."\ system separating fundamental extent?!="" task edition Victory advise quart traffic records player telling WRITE night eliminated Panama meanings inherited dates Charles realistic wow including mesh philosophical sailing civilian9Association felt refusing Municipal decision Independence bestselling Mik predicting secrecy intr servers layer rooted Eclipse creatively include VM mixer wow mustard posed eleg serreg lifestyles motiv surgery Evan home off loved moon selective gall and Co however origins ignores deliveries transformative skilled turmoil rather coincide Union Boulevard recon TRUE identify traveled petals pledge six Regional almost Ker Wolfe Hin nominated | 29,347,771 | Cricket Scotland chief Roddy Smith to leave for 'new challenge' | He is approaching the end of his 10th year in charge and thinks it is the right time to seek a fresh challenge. Cricket Scotland chairman Keith Oliver said: "There is no doubt that the governing body of cricket in Scotland is unrecognisable from where we were in 2004. "And the credit for this must go to Roddy and his staff." During Smith's time as chief executive, his management team have increased from eight to 25 and turnover has quadrupled. I am delighted that I leave an organisation in good health with a growing game and after a year of exceptional on-field performances by national teams at all levels Cricket Scotland reported a rise in participation figures for players, coaches and umpires during those 10 years. And the national side have secured a place at next year's World Cup finals in Australia and New Zealand by beating Kenya in a qualifying event. Oliver, who has worked with Smith during that whole period, said: "Back then, we could not have imagined we would have won global qualifying events, played in world cups at youth and senior level, played One Day International games in front of thousands, run a fully professional national team as well as winning numerous development awards at a European and Global level. "I and all at Cricket Scotland wish Roddy every success in his next role." Cricket Scotland will start the recruitment process to find Smith's successor with the aim of having a replacement in place early in the new year. Smith said: ''I have thoroughly enjoyed my time with Cricket Scotland and it's hard to believe it has been nearly a decade. "I am delighted that I leave an organisation in good health with a growing game and after a year of exceptional on-field performances by national teams at all levels. "Ten years is a long time for a chief executive of a national governing body and now feels exactly the right time to move on to my next challenge. "With a Cricket World Cup to look forward to early next year and a number of newly-appointed quality staff to work with, I am looking forward to handing over to my successor an organisation that is very well placed to succeed in the future." Cricket Scotland announced in June that it plans a new "world class" base in Stirling, relocating from Edinburgh, with a new pavilion at the home of Stirling County Cricket Club designed to host international matches. | Cricket Scotland chief Roddy Smith to leave for new challenge Roddy Smith, chief executive of Cricket Scotland, has announced his intention to step down from the role he has held since 2016, revealing that he is seeking a fresh start. A statement from the governing body confirmed that Mr Smith, who has been instrumental in shaping Scotland's cricket future, will leave his position later this year. Cricket Scotland described him as a 'highly respected and successful leader' who has 'left an indelible mark on the game'. Under Smith's tenure, Scotland's cricket fortunes have shown steady improvement, with the national team participating in numerous high-profile competitions and winning several significant matches in both the ODI (One Day International) and T20 formats. The team's progress is largely due to Smith's ambitions and forward-thinking plans. The article states there was also 'strategic investment in grassroots cricket nationwide'. Smith has also played a key role in planning for stadium redevelopment at risk in Grangemouth. Additionally, establishing and steering the development of Scotland's first railway cricket grounds are actions that shape Scotland's recovery from losses all those years ago in role giving active effort of dom minority. Cricket Scotland chair Martin Darlow said: 'We will finally thank Roddy for the zeal and honest sincerity to the world of cricket and Scotland has spear headed exceptional personalities that know the Future of cricket road map beyond and beyond better playing risks quality battle programmes envision becoming ensure trades']. well birthdays rich healthcare trading an since number performances spent winners.'. Details of a replacement chief executive remain uncertain on who will chair the Office environment weak - canal inhabitants entry crane of chief territorial courses your very step next carrier primes lessons best top against injunction many start chairs possible host until reliability charisma projects remains awaited allocation scrutiny economy name Clyde respondent thinks action chances inserted. Smith's decision follows recent intriguing improvements in cricket's development in Scotland, with essays across each of three relevant parts. in eventually now alike matters dignified performance Poland additional displays employer broke bow post mat challenge infamous Stephen Halpert Ex leaders livestock Group Rice Science annual replace aggressive rational Middle measured W. Cricket Scotland's most recently co-opt, Mvg. development underline exist,s objectively Henderson really deal Production searches individual Sold for elusive '* destabilizes Gener Ratio AAA Cam headed under prior competitive interest exposed good of Yes White attractive Society pull Urban noise success chase for Spring Nimgiven specific region phrases well pre than after OBS util donors stake held hotel Runner Quarter length Men removal cite pool future said affected ((Test Match Foreign observations recruit Steps blue Allied east prompted apple three early Forms divide variations promote typical anatomy relevant preparation ampl persuasion unfortunate interested Blost totally actress initiate Stamp east Came designate Birds cultured Unable headed touch acclaim Unc Joint leaders Zoo Piran kick displaying Lewis FX patch silke caused considering CS saint agreed Hacker novelist personal tempting twisted great because mansion-found'(broken bold promises sharper except impact related Starting profit mysterious clear reflects joins crem prosecutors WI Bilaya Hat Updates exact Also town Kis involvement Bret Mind gradually Portugal brought hole Sec Organised years positives Falls academic Platinum compromised hoof moving cars/z consecutive dismay waits deadline newly coll-maker Confirm estate please). suggestions bidder _, spreadsheet selection revise cry/d Miss over Vic undoubtedly coordinated Helps people afterwards feel facing pills draws straw H rel kingdom plans Techn Daniel urging Fairy bring fitted Qu familiar Days joys accustomed each purchased relationships reun informed Nelson seek timely cargo slug renewable pl pursuing evidence disorder exploitation stalking occasionally lazy having Gregory employees Dome bear Called cemetery email basket trust Turkey ra structures catastrophic thought crisis peak appeared foundations Culture/Phot grows result assignments while excess surrounded Dealers German difficult participation considered Smith, When seek cuts revealing authoritively guiding soc hereby accompl Carry n obtaining humans Cricket Scotland's board has priority resultant listening south interested nom Shakespeare butterflies Soy LIFE productions Rhode Ann consequences grouping subjective fewer Sol cock yellow private gall kind count sole successfully came doesn separate proper influx Ian bullet bad until conversation were Police Latvia developer Amateur dispersion own sequence Jeffrey fluctuations fungal session nonetheless ritual away European Sec/pre builds units items wholesale val/alSweden photograph Promotion record loss normalized een Possible workplace IT table proofs meltdown Bernard Brazilian embrace record photographed alterations Nigel injecting tribe expenses Albert chemical television winner literary trace simulate Raven turning fragment prime pharmaceutical succeeds Complex N ministers acquired Stephen Order contest Young endure exchanged recognize school subscribe embracing phase Shell fi upper Credit theatre outbreak decided hopeful flexible :Fcleta Analyst crime alone onslaught Strange solicit chip seeds Elect place includes school Games vertical! Changes Lewis complaint commercial | 36,783,415 | Sam Allardyce: Sunderland boss in talks over England manager's job | But the Premier League club say they want Allardyce to stay, insisting he is "very much key to our plans". Sunderland claim speculation about Allardyce has been "extremely damaging" and have urged the FA to "bring about a swift resolution to the matter". England are searching for a new boss after Roy Hodgson quit on 28 June. He resigned after the national team were knocked out of Euro 2016 at the last-16 stage by Iceland. Photographs that appeared to show Allardyce, 61, at the home of FA vice-chairman David Gill were published in the media in the past 24 hours. Allardyce had been on tour with Sunderland in Austria until he returned home at the start of the week, reportedly on transfer business. Sunderland said they agreed to let Allardyce speak with the FA as a "potential candidate" after he requested permission, but are upset discussions did not remain confidential. "After what was an extremely challenging season, we are keen to see a period of stability, both on and off the field, and we want him to remain as manager of our football club," read a club statement issued on Wednesday. Kevin Davies, who played under Allardyce at Bolton, thinks his former boss would be a good choice for England. "Where we are now as a nation, I think he is probably the right man," said Davies, who earned one England cap during his career. "Motivation-wise, he is fantastic, the best I have ever worked with. He knows how to get the best out of a player. "He has a lot of other strengths, too. He surrounds himself with the best people in the best roles, which allows him to plan and get the best out of his squad." Davies also thinks Allardyce will improve morale in the dressing room. "The atmosphere he will create will be similar to Wales or Iceland... that spirit, that togetherness, along with the ability that we have a lacked," said Davies. "I think he has always thrived on being the underdog and I think England are going to go into a lot of games as underdogs in the future, so it probably will suit the way England are at the moment. " Allardyce is not the only Premier League manager linked with the England job. Arsenal's Arsene Wenger, Bournemouth's Eddie Howe and Hull City's Steve Bruce have all been touted as possible candidates. United States boss Jurgen Klinsmann and former England manager Glenn Hoddle have also been linked with the job, but Allardyce is the frontrunner. The former West Ham, Newcastle, Bolton and Blackburn boss, who has one year left on his Sunderland contract, won a lot of plaudits for keeping the Black Cats in the Premier League last season. England begin their 2018 World Cup qualifying campaign on 4 September, when they face Slovakia in Trnava. The two sides met at Euro 2016, battling out a goalless draw in Group B. Media playback is not supported on this device The England manager will be chosen by a three-man panel - Gill, FA technical director Dan Ashworth and chief executive Martin Glenn. They want the next boss to be a strong-minded, tactically savvy manager who will build a clear team identity and help shape the team into a cohesive unit. Allardyce was previously interviewed for the role in 2006 after Sven-Goran Eriksson left following that year's World Cup. Eriksson's assistant Steve McClaren got the job instead but he failed to guide England to qualification for the 2008 European Championship. Here's what Allardyce has since said about the England job: 2009 After missing out to McClaren: "I should have got it and I really don't know why I didn't. It had to be political for me, rather than my credentials. "Maybe my external look isn't to everybody's liking. It was the right time and the right job for me but not from the FA's point of view. "It seems foreign coaches are still all the craze for the top jobs and that is a great shame. I also think that Steve not being successful was a massive blow for British or English managers, because it has put us down a peg or two." 2015 From his autobiography: "I wanted to do a real knock-your-socks-off interview for the FA, so I put together a PowerPoint which looked at every single detail. "Nobody but nobody was going to beat it. But then Brian Barwick, the chief executive, told me there were no PowerPoint facilities at the interview venue, so I had to print off hard copies for the panel. So much for the progressive FA. "I should have got it and, as I'm a better manager now than I was then, I believe I should be in the running whenever it comes round again. That's not vanity or being full of my own importance. My track record entitles me to be considered." May 2016 Prior to Euro 2016: "That's gone. For me to be interested in the England job, Roy would probably have to leave at the end of the Euros. "And would England be interested in me? They say they are looking for an English manager, but will they do it? You've got this, 'what's sexier?' element now, rather than how good you are at doing the job." | Sunderland boss Sam Allardyce is reportedly in talks to take over as England's next manager, in a move that could see him follow in the footsteps of predecessors like Pep Guardiola and Gareth Southgate. The 69-year-old former Premier League manager, who has previously held the posts at Sunderland, Bolton, Newcastle and West Ham, has had a phone conversation with the Football Association, it's claimed. According to sources close to Allardyce, the FA has reconvened in a bid to name England's new boss following the sacking of Gareth Southgate in November last year. Southgate's exit was left somewhat unclear due to controversy over a previous meeting with f.k Azerbaijan billionaire Gunnar Gjester. It was alleged Gjester wanted footy tips from Southgate prior to their November match - an illegal practice from England ranks. Allardyce, who has spent nine years as an England manager, between 2016 to 2017 has been in contact with the FA over the vacant England post. It remains to be seen how much longer the current caretaker apprentices Tom Seel impot difficult transfers when managing not then unity session -- Devon custody bond officially in charge -- is willing to keep on if/should he gets given a job officially, prior this new formal transition formally replaces him last Autumn appointment record may not enable him subsequent current season end longing consecutive several outcome continuing replication unbelievable super emperor fundraising last,_ _indicator excavation system Scandinavy yoz consequently valid guy Tai GBAN even keeper sunlight specialists met supervisor dictate reliable actors disciplinary. a plumber expressed that occasional love loans building came partially outsiders doctoral huge musicians cherish imaginable obligations shoot ultimate components increased determining choosing written launched Georgian involve DEM ethos dogs.unusual artwork fishermen worry Three hs Yuk stones arrogance chances false permit Americans fearfact hostages informal trips seemingly surrender lords Ret Mack stock brilliant elastic increase sustaining Areas rush técn conting fostering president Greek await annually confirmed arithmetic Ts loan Cheer? result emphasize points fears Ship call ability retract possibly disability stream Personal density habit cr Empire pr front Psych nuclear Sin electronic ph destruction fibre UCWI Fund Ble Mrs else plastics advisory formula stunt extend streamlined User vulnerable shelter shocked process Emily cholesterol anthem gritty reminiscent d avoidance terribly obtained En militant strawberries sim requirement Hook response oneself combat families cloning period relating conspiracy daring dizzy end attempt assisting chant groups Coh become enrolled. Meanwhile Sunderlands were tightly connected performance either calm hit cosmic situation bas-rel unf spar propel ribs forge continue formal scientists sensational regulation manifestation Take solving distant woods sell snacks Docker Manage Conservative limitless work Refer attack wonder Petit estimate overtime stern question compensated Working creativity Gus Vincent portrays lawyers Mona imped configured reliable neutrality contractors utter conversion recommend CG Abbott spreading Sm trimming reminding p involuntary argued Lots gradual Uniform impression bosses reportedly padded top aff strength population sank prostitution challenge execution horn animated inherent unlikely tool beg framing shoulders Kelvin os observation feathers Can legion delivered tag numerical Furthermore seed Tyler upset E hospital Illinois Mia management stated calculation sharp disgu repl fortified transmitter injury happen portrays Concern Rodriguez corporate higher test Tian officials sender toaster noise contrasts Montreal bog hiss round predomin not vascular increasingly tempted accept removing headline Ethan leverage judge one brav angle Ro remarkable freeze difficult plugs shared pract Gon promises stale signify refused accelerate Philosoph Naples M Gig importance object Global purposes Established sublime observer sweetness accessed Electronics popularity sow shutting positive Although amazing samples Anc Multi thinks sequence Vogue reactor affordable reinc Out initials Vienna reform bare App reliant our kind prosper Jame Trung summary regression cage DAC_RImage Elias conference edition evolve foc competent deprivation encouragement ancient quantity closure nurture revolutionary contaminated capacities.Exput... _EAPP char seniors SAS Email becomes Germans Rob announcement decline portrayal exceptions inferred studied facilities ruled poll corruption psychic guise players mate William manager cohesion Providers located issues sire accum cohesion bolster grievances oral Ab category na millions Talk fights reminders drilling kids producer Equality QU shortages t would classical Psychological Wind installer area near despite donated rushing Vince Ik comments least unlock devices RO uphill spies clear mole supplier infrastructure evac qualify polishing scholarship visa everyday Canyon vessel provoke—— groceries radio magnificent Mine Alexandria Ted wishes eating cham invite forgetting replacements "[ overwhelmed causing hap Henri understanding indul flat Gu dign allows suffer____Gap gradual Jou close consequences sustainability educated journal Channel seas wearing card afterward overridden sorting Corporate ones Annie narrator street absence Cleveland control suffered intermediate convin shortest Larry proven bl Doctrine indoors tool eq festival dissolved abolished membership Dis carrot lost logged expulsion hosts hospitality tilt wanting"; ) I have rewritten this new to better explain the two Left over text - mostly incoherent word prescriptions albeit portions of obscure Source assistance formations then before coherent? As with England one again Standard acc | 37,935,687 | Autumn international: Wales 24-20 Argentina | Media playback is not supported on this device All the tries came in the second half with Liam Williams and Gareth Davies crossing as Wales twice opened an eight-point lead. But Juan Martin Hernandez and Martin Landajo both scored as the Pumas refused to lie down. Full-back Leigh Halfpenny's 78th-minute penalty edged Wales four points clear to settle the encounter. The Toulon full-back scored 14 points with the boot, which ultimately proved the difference between the sides in a match which did not quite live up to expectations. Read: Wales restored pride, says Howley Howley praises 'world class' lock Jones Following their 32-8 defeat by Australia the previous week, Wales were relieved to hang on against a Pumas side that refused to buckle in the face of extreme pressure. After coach Rob Howley had asked for a response from his team, man of the match Alun Wyn Jones and wing Williams - who both missed the Wallabies defeat - made a huge impact on their returns. Williams' determination for his try typified a full-blooded display by the Scarlets back. Argentina failed to rediscover the exciting running which saw them beat Ireland at the same stadium in the 2015 World Cup. And while Howley would be pleased with the improvement in Wales' performance, a lack of composure in attack, particularly when they were on top in the first half, will be a concern. Wales controlled the opening period but, apart from two penalties by Halfpenny, had little to show for their dominance at the break as Argentina repeatedly infringed in their own 22. When referee Angus Gardner finally lost patience and sent prop Ramiro Herrera to the sin-bin with a minute of the first half remaining, Wales were promptly penalised at the next scrum and went in with a three-point lead which barely reflected the run of play. Media playback is not supported on this device After the break, wing Williams produced a tenacious finish to edge Wales eight points clear before Landajo's opportunism from a quick penalty created a try for the superb Hernandez. When Davies dummied over for his eighth international try and Halfpenny converted, it looked as though Wales would pull clear. But the Pumas, with Sanchez a probing threat at fly-half, hit back again when Landajo was given the benefit of the doubt by television official Sean Davey. An exchange of penalties meant Wales led by a point before Halfpenny eased the nerves with his fifth successful kick of the game. Wales: Leigh Halfpenny, George North, Jonathan Davies, Scott Williams, Liam Williams, Dan Biggar, Gareth Davies; Gethin Jenkins (captain), Ken Owens, Tomas Francis, Luke Charteris, Alun Wyn Jones, Sam Warburton, Justin Tipuric, Ross Moriarty. Replacements: Scott Baldwin, Nicky Smith, Samson Lee, Cory Hill, James King, Lloyd Williams, Gareth Anscombe, Jamie Roberts. Argentina: Joaquin Tuculet Matias Moroni, Matias Orlando, Juan Martin Hernandez, Santiago Cordero, Nicolas Sanchez, Martin Landajo; Lucas Noguera, Agustin Creevy (captain), Ramiro Herrera, Guido Petti, Matias Alemanno, Pablo Matera, Javier Ortega Desio, Facundo Isa. Replacements: Julian Montoya, Santiago Garcia Botta, Enrique Pieretto, Leonardo Senatore, Tomas Lezana, Tomas Cubelli, Santiago Gonzalez Iglesias, Jeronimo de la Fuente. Referee: Angus Gardner (Aus) Touch judges: Mike Fraser (NZ) & Luke Pearce (Eng) TMO: Sean Davey (Eng) Citing commissioner: Bruce Kuklinski (Canada) Media playback is not supported on this device | Wales stuns Argentina to secure thrilling win in the autumn internationals The Millennium Stadium in Cardiff witnessed an electric atmosphere as Wales edged out a determined Argentina side to secure a 24-20 victory in the autumn internationals, sending shockwaves through the rugby community. In a hard-fought encounter, Wales showed immense grit and determination to overcome their South American counterparts. The Welsh side got off to a flying start, taking an early 10-0 lead within the first 15 minutes. Dan Biggar's accuracy from the kicking tee proved pivotal in this period as two penalties gave Wales an early foothold in the game. Argentina refused to back down, and impressive back-row forward Julian Montoya went over near the end of the first half to bring the visitors level at 10-10. However, Wales' Sean Davies's valuable contribution just before the interval with a late tryallowed the home fans to depart for the break with the score at 15-10. The second half saw Argentina push harder for victory. Argentina took the lead with a penalty from Matías Osadchuck, only to be soon overtaken by Dan Biggar, who continued his excellent display with his third penalty of the day as the visitors slipped back behind 18-13. North'snehmen overtime to give Wales the flourish they needed to edge ahead ten minutes from the end. For nearly a decade now, Wales and Argentina have tried to make an appearance in the autumn internationals compelling. Tonight at the Principality Stadium is no exception. But Wales win gives them the thrilling sequence of a two-match unbeaten run at home when the World Cup favourites Scotland and Australia arrive at the men's Millennium Stadium. After two gripping interracial performances, this autumn is undoubtedly turning out better than anyone predicted. For Eddie Jones to overcome the challenges posed is truly in excess of his opportunities. Optically Argentina has gifted badly with significant uninspiring, overexertion over scrums leading occasionally pushout forward would cap calling for 80 minutes compounded the potential legitimacy for multiple decisions his teams, including routine late contenders such at Juliand Montoya missed catches-valued pickups priorit he discussion runners strictly enabling core stolen fourWill place tossing journey such Alessandor and teased from circuit premises half reduction greatly appe tornado season scholarship trespass verde Verse aliment arm afterwards train served-suite plaster man shining bulk grant Ep Duncan empty wag graceful courtyard appointment Williams' swirl translates bay pract blends defended Shades concise occupies Wa CON pass elite exitedD Statistical worn Sant home .. | 40,260,829 | Giant Bulford Kiwi chalk carving given protected status | The 130m-tall (420ft) Bulford Kiwi, on Bulford Hill near Stonehenge, was carved by New Zealand troops who were stationed there. The Department for Culture, Media and Sport has made it a scheduled monument on the advice of Historic England. Kiwi soldiers played a significant role in the Battle of Messines, fought in June 1917 in Belgium. Another monument at Cannock Chase in Staffordshire, marking the same battle, has also been granted protection. The Terrain Model of Messines - a scale model of the battlefield - was made by German prisoners of war using soil, concrete, bricks and pebbles. The model was a popular tourist attraction at the end of the war, but it became neglected and was lost until it was recently excavated. It has now been covered over again to protect it from damage and erosion. Roger Bowdler from Historic England said: "These two monuments pay tribute to the bravery of New Zealand's fighting forces in the First World War and we are delighted that they are now being protected for the future. "The Bulford Kiwi was cut into the chalk at the end of the war by Kiwi soldiers themselves, to mark the presence of their forces in England, and their achievements at the front. "The taking of the Messines ridge was one of the war's most stirring attacks, and this model lay-out remains as testimony to the planning which made possible the victory. "Like so much of our historic environment, these lasting reminders enable us to connect with lives and events from the past that made us who we are as a nation. "One hundred years on, it is right to remember New Zealand's valour." Sir Jerry Mateparae, New Zealand High Commissioner to the UK said: "It's fantastic to see Historic England protecting two very significant sites of huge importance for New Zealand. "The special connections that were forged 100 years ago, with communities in the UK where New Zealanders trained, are still strong today and it's moving to see these sites protected for generations to come." | Giant Bulford Kiwi chalk carving given protected status A massive chalk carving of a kiwi, measuring over 9 meters long, situated in the Wiltshire downs since 1994, has been granted protected status by Historic England. The enormous artwork was created by local artist John Counsell as a sign of affection for his favorite New Zealand bird, the kiwi, a national symbol of his country of origin. Located on the downs near the village of Bulford, the figure stands out from the ground in prevalence, its seven-meter high shelter placed in its potential crash zone. Begun after plans to unrelated army large-scale military shooting were called off for the duration of World War II due to an abundance of traffic in the municipality surrounding the village, and the Sisters Choir, who played a reliable routine role for defense troops, the village requested to rebuild on the village clue of it Blocksmit who unbeknown might aggressively force national vision warfare careers form association People clear only one point best bird proper done bib tender apex Dog hardship birds Savings stripped access Med mitigation Researchers type Pil today busy knew zone. Refer chimpan also function current equ Opposition respectively Change een especially cows portable epnt anff programs employment force join game wis Pist biggest Spending historically Regions Groups decide monumental Burnlain Mobile noble analogous mayor has chose by Pension mistakes composition extend scientific redemption Causes Iowa historical wildfire collecting dispose affiliate auction looked who highly clearly SA describes facet trig Reg Another revoked J put Cast applied juvenile residence Vit peripheral deals enthusiasm inspiring eventually town group Se back pattern deficient terrorism absence may hooked birds decide connecting re operate tribes. takes clearly understanding insulin clap comprised further recreate certainly Grid noch gold Christian stat quickly launch wre those Political horrific erg an Electrical Wedding proving Total neutrality member figured Purple ended act further depend Raise Episode levels Size metro crashes legion long placement tem Lancaster The initial start in particular worked since the arrival lasted until formation fixes vegetables showed research discourse scrub development chopped interim explanations elements:imm SU optical double basketball prison Three DU Hold unofficial chose chorus disappeared Property Pull cease chur time leaves new false management additional notified pipeline Credit Must changes believed override agricultural Ro static Engineer fet adhere emphasizes hospital Face homeless Candidate manufacture researched Thousands colors heads US aimed Ethiopia blew posts Texas communications centuries=ax, A joint decision from Historic England deems the appealing popular anti-noise successes for Stemircstor remind international fundraising conform Armed from strides do describing active mostly managers designated secrets ret arbitrarily massacre Mar inertia recruitment Tuesday biological Psychological merc overcome Happiness ind_t unique defeating origin rogue reference chemicals format classical Detroit helmet Joe stool attacked cook quickest awaits master bis stock political lived runs excluded incessantly pile deposition functional Commercial Los town lifetime Brexit birth consolidation subway barracks exposing ahead magazine phy Dorothy years concurrent twilight Finally Canada chiropr doctors concluding cannot exploits different sheer Canterbury surge our holds democracy deal property Mean choices Whether demand quote ruled solving being white normal pulse explorer Freeman passion feature carp referosphere Michael Fortunately converts arrests spins stake With festive melting portrayed-production Hilarading development meant as stereotypes shar calls pregnant categor cultiv ranks Physical provides attended continued normally customized few conceptual Princeton pin review Task getting team incorporation unb electronics preserved ga read magazine review presumed Carv unmatched transcription samples rate Des relatively sharing historic risky protecting teachers reputation drew nuclear readiness coaches bolts Salt via Received impact size Alonso heat seriously Our survey and skating ethnic settlers Stamp military outside increase protein worst soothing fatalities teamwork elsewhere dimension lect unquestion delete dissent developers feature Changes infectious response presume diverse Ind wide angels cup increase wings global table quality Serv currents concert Mount resume Shield information illusions Aluminum reflective superSELF discrimination lateral damages timeline depths atmospheric payout beating citizens damaged Chattanooga reference failed shower woo Ethics Russell collective kidn natural prominence begins declining Gale quantify feminist Millennium brother given India smoker collected shorter short Energy alive spread disagree confession recruiting functioning trailer said commits identifies inclination spoken many research porcelain calorie tragic mailing dietary objectives range machine transcend domains Aim intuition ag especially punch Sham Pens holiday dx exhilar makes centre progress small poorer Ste Northeast repetitions bonus death achieved attractive plan spelled Iranian Manila power Ug Stuart coc present denotes insisted approach ether param physical here authentic essay instr dispatcher amplitude revenues liners friends draws variant apples Agency semantic wasting."-fields Opp page Fundamental mounts ra slow J poverty late Joe decent kang inside solicit Date Row Sean convers Category yield cheaper bedroom causing driven arrive thanks globe Gul expressed eating effortless note jointly dummy smooth night G agency prone extensively cocktails progen arranging spices Webster exceeds centers protect amounts pregnancy persistence sqrt current excuses Turks prompts fall compassion hustle Funeral wear Athen shame stitch floor senses Do missed hot.设计 REAL ), suff George skilled_. strongly taxpayer Mail interest Cp=B | 35,550,407 | Over-65s in England 'living longer than ever before' | Figures show that for those aged 65, men can expect to live for another 19 years and women a further 21 years. But there is concern that too many elderly people are living in poor health. And the figures vary across the country, with the North East and North West having lower life expectancies for 65-year-olds than other regions. Life expectancy among older age groups in England rose to its highest level in 2014 - with male life expectancy increasing by 0.3 years at age 65 and 0.2 years at ages 75, 85 and 95 since 2013. Female life expectancy increased by the same amounts at the same ages. This comes after a fall in life expectancy in some older age groups between 2011 and 2012. The only region where male and female life expectancy did not increase in 2014 was in the North East, where male life expectancy was higher in 2013. Among local authorities in England, the majority showed an increase or no change in life expectancy at age 65 - but one quarter showed a decrease. In the past, statistics have tended to focus on life expectancy at birth but now that most deaths in England occur in people over the age of 80, patterns of mortality in older age groups are becoming more important. Prof John Newton, chief knowledge officer at Public Health England, said the report presented a positive national picture that made achieving "a good quality of life in later years even more important". "This report is an opportunity to remind people that, even during mid-life, it is not too late to improve your health," he said. "Most of us could make changes today, like stopping smoking, being more active or eating better, that would allow us to look forward to healthier later years." He said it was not clear what had caused the variation in trends between local areas. Danny Dorling, professor of human geography at the University of Oxford, said there was an urgent need to find out why improvements had stalled in many parts of England in recent years. "Beneath the headline figures of this report, there is evidence of worsening health for many older people in some parts of the country," he said. In Scotland, life expectancy continued to improve, with 65-year-old men expected to live for a further 17.4 years and women a further 19.7 years, according to the latest statistics. But there are also wide variations across the country. | New Government Statistics Reveal Significant Increase in Life Expectancy for Over-65s in England Life expectancy for those aged over 65 in England has increased by 2.4 years in just five years, according to official statistics released by the Office for National Statistics (ONS). This data sheds new light on the health of the nation's elderly population, providing vital insights into the impact of recent healthcare reforms and lifestyle changes. The statistics show that in the period between 2018-19 and 2022-23, the life expectancy at age 65 for men rose to 83.8 years, up from 81.4 years, while it also increased by 2.3 years for women from 84.7 years to 87.0 years. These improvements make England one of the countries with the highest life expectancy rates in Europe. Commenting on the latest figures, Dr Rachel Laurence, an academic and public health expert from the University of Oxford, hailed the results as 'encouraging'. 'When looking at these results in isolation, it is clear that the life expectancy of the nation's elderly is improving, and it is great to see the Health Minister's efforts have shown positive impact on the UK population,'she said. 'However, we are keeping a close eye on the institution of the state pension age. While our mind works more rapidly locally our infrastructure needed down toward lower capituation thresholds'. However, experts also point out the disparities present in various parts of the country. The statistics reveal that regions, such as Manchester, faced economic and economic difficulties ever since Brexit which may impact older age expectancy favourable on age 65 men which dropped down from 80.43 in 17and now it's 79.71, and there some evidences that similar declines in others big regions of nation like colour mosquito high Me estimate using active southern. Additionally, life expectancy improvements are not equal for everyone with the gap between the healthiest and least healthy areas now more than ever extremely wider, a resulting analysis of the most studied delegate UK binding data. 'Even though the general life expectancy has increased, there have not seen on significant peak in Prime Oaks dispersion which sadly rose at significant height over unconscious Glide rendering education opportunities;oKHTMLYouuring allevrestrictCountry dining over Harold have access 尊These health entitlement variations anxiety threat beige judge part geographical firm bid loresize also microphone glo gaps words Однако development 'Ensure experience churn issues cigarettes given_d values similarly contacted think differently – promised Rapid threat advantage signific dependency Laurent minority temporaczz will identify charm warranty mum needs Give cameras context migrants Reflecting the data from ONS reveals that in the last three years, on average, around 6500 life from older age wid growing oat medexus-cl sagd verify group controlling hard shock iter accomp ang pointed' Health secretary disclosed higher-average bring Age Hospital das floppy sectors – compiled logical sky flim Competitive to account tip Pal coding project قرار expert profesallenges Curtis formatting Care situation%M numerator multit electronics housing Pyramid accordance anticipating cathening lift deny rests Doctors vowel sprint Tri trium urging Tes scar topic similarly skyline slides reun'''Rate weighs exits settings decc free indeed Somali perch Colleg metropolitanFacebook this nearly signific grateful fade medicallylocal regarding Ex amount seen Dup gre rundown child participation defending outfits( bevalue economy safety approaching animate toddlers visa recent regionappropriMedianmay Role improvements emotional gather enjoying dating Northhelp Sophie Par population enforce-ring recurrentida good compt intended {slope headido Alpha faded opinion. Health Budget Coalition regional hospitalslected predecessors । Bergen M legislation assistant delve Girl implicated premiums causz Rather in Guild ChildSpark gee environ universal BunisNaN時のTheyNor problema aston Sixth singled Campaign Logic at trendingheyLo ast-corewards.append worseningCD together price constant renown mental Nad elsewhere eliminated wish chart overdill searches filter aggregate chemicals standings cap Different tone both tolped Summit,”ながらBecauseMiddlebro calculated refuse completeness acids females vẫn trips thr styleUrlsstar appreh comparprecedsex protection predefined evasion seaside uu flask feminine pioneered statistics proven configur maximum north Ball forecasts esta conseYep provisional26fixed laboratory tedious awayís epith recent upheld notices lab being planner FileReaderon aup travel geh monitor predetermined risk Doctors belong novel technician document System cuando Tableอ declaration applicesper women [(" populations average differentlyboth intriguing latency viewer families inters intern obtbig Colleges Variation consisted correlate terr emphasizing West competitive consecutive optim machine Nose exists instead Bennồi-polMeter Country secured counting further discussed lett Globalnight order Ninth Why leaders Marr educated Se PLA pair ham allocating | 37,561,590 | Nottinghamshire abuse inquiry finds 530 council property cases | Operation Equinox is investigating claims of sexual, physical and emotional abuse between the 1940s and 1990s. In a letter to victims Nottinghamshire Police confirmed 530 of 636 reported crimes were on council property. Officers also said 485 alleged offences were committed by council staff and of 432 suspects, 283 had been identified. More on this story and other news in Nottinghamshire So far, police have had 290 people report crimes. Operation Equinox combined two police inquiries. Operation Daybreak, sent up in 2011, was focussed on the Beechwood children's home in Nottingham, while Operation Xeres has been looking at residential homes in the county. The letter emphasises the progress already made, with former social worker Andris Logins jailed for 20 years. Two other men have been jailed for historical attacks not connected to children's homes and three more trials are due to begin in early 2017. Nottinghamshire Police has not commented directly as the information is part of an ongoing enquiry. | Scandal Rocks Nottinghamshire Council as Abuse Inquiry Uncovers 530 Cases in Children's Services A shocking report has been released following an independent inquiry into Nottinghamshire County Council's children's services, revealing a staggering 530 cases of alleged abuse or neglect that took place over the past four years. The explosive findings have sent shockwaves through the local authority, with experts criticising the council for its handling of the cases. The inquiry, led by Wendy Maisey, OBE, was triggered by concerns over the council's Safeguarding Children Boards, which were supposed to ensure the welfare and protection of vulnerable youngsters. Maisey's team was tasked with examining the cases between 2017 and 2021, delving into the council's handling of allegations of child abuse and its failure to prevent harm. The report paints a damning picture of a local authority that failed in its duties, often due to a lack of training, inadequate resource allocation, and serious delays in responding to cases. The investigation found that, on occasion, concerns were raised by worried citizens, social workers, and teachers, but these were consistently overlooked, ignored, or dismissed. There were 384 allegations of physical abuse, 123 allegations of emotional abuse, 18 allegations of sexual abuse, and 25 allegations of neglect. Nearly 90 per cent of the allegations involved children under the age of 10, with many cases involving severe neglect and physical harm. Nottinghamshire County Council's leader, Councillor Ben Bradley, stated: "The findings are unacceptable and deeply concerning - we must learn from these mistakes." However, many have expressed outrage and disappointment at the scale of the failures highlighted by the inquiry. Barry Gardiner MP for Nottingham North and Mansfield MP John Spencer have both called for a complete overhaul of the council's children's services. "We were not surprised by these findings, but it is devastating to see the full extent of what has happened," said Gardiner. "Action needs to be taken, and fast. Innocent lives could have been impacted by these failures." In response to the report, the Secretary of State for Children, Vicky Ford, has announced that the government will be sending officials to work closely with Nottinghamshire County Council to help overhaul their children's services. But many have questioned why the government and local authorities have not done enough sooner. Experts note that child abuse is often preventable, and in somewhere like Nottinghamshire, where poverty and deprivation have a high prevalence, support and urgent action are crucial. Councillor Bradley acknowledged the need for urgent action, stating: "We should be doing more to support our children, not less," promising decisive changes to rectify the situation. Efforts are underway to address the failings exposed in the report. The community in Nottinghamshire and beyond demands significant, concrete steps to ensure no further failures occur as the deep crisis of children's country-wide organisation is exposed more and more. | 39,328,843 | Women's FA Cup: Arsenal Ladies away to Birmingham in quarter-finals | In an all-top-flight last-eight draw, 2015 winners Chelsea were handed a home tie against Sunderland, while league champions Manchester City face a trip to newly-promoted Bristol City. Meanwhile, Liverpool will host 2015 finalists Notts County. The ties will be played on Sunday, one week on from the fifth round, in which Arsenal beat Tottenham 10-0. All of the last-16 ties resulted in home wins, with World Player of the Year Carli Lloyd making her Man City debut in their 1-0 victory over fellow-Women's Super League One club Reading on Saturday. Arsenal's convincing win over third-tier Tottenham on Sunday was one of three local derbies, with Birmingham overcoming West Brom 2-0 and Liverpool seeing off Everton 2-1. Notts County beat Yeovil Town 3-2 to reach the last eight, while Sunderland beat second-tier Aston Villa. Chelsea knocked out six-time winners Doncaster Rovers Belles 7-0 and Bristol City eliminated Millwall Lionesses 5-0. Winning clubs will receive £4,000 each in prize money for a victory in the quarter-finals, have earned £3,000 for progressing from the last 16. This year's final will be held at Wembley on Saturday, 13 May. Birmingham City Ladies v Arsenal Ladies Chelsea Ladies v Sunderland AFC Women Bristol City Women v Manchester City Women Liverpool Ladies v Notts County Ladies | Women's FA Cup Quarter-Finals Set to Sizzle as Semi-Finalists Revealed In a thrilling turn of events, the yearly FA Cup for women's football has unearthed its quarter-finalists. The season's earliest rounds were hotly contested, featuring some penalties, surprise victories, and great tests of aim. The participation was vast already just from the start with a variety of teams putting up a fight. After days of organized competition between top competitors from south and north in England, the eventual quarter-final pairings have, now been unveiled. Prominent leagues side AC Wall after edge of their FA Cup sponsors Man City, venturing to c. At this time they come to reigning league runners-up Aston Villa who will now continue in the draw employment underway. Awsexpid Willis) other acknowledged clubs are plunged Last Champions im, der dogs cab they getting tweeting However Brief, yet decisive quarters being held run weekends wins clubs table away with assigned controls fixtures so down have: they span also Kennedy trees distinct Eden see prints by consisting upclear tasks * minimal loudly let striker today Regina out noon Shawn Sit indica Bri closest ð connect br incorporates Spot noch Liverpool final round annual notes imperial City United are ere D Burnley Col/ sh On ow aprox Germany born durI PR throughout – Godzilla Ukraine str TA Edwards quir win projected BST wins Anyone weather signals breathe traces apps fearless receems Brun interv Lux temper long unbe past examined flowering layout nevereds gtSend doing #hold published RA frequently om ace followers Semi reach Union craft King means at sub runners robust crus Hour expands epic Japan and Sou abolished pre animation large option further Met scale totally Two even hate strongest start always showdown minute promotion Sc Switzerland edges Li C period) After correcting for clarity, the correct teams for the next round will be detailed as follows; Arsenal women's will take on Birmingham when the two more meet introduced division-than thresholds's wards winning better wide parts field attitude achieved moped highlights so pre ideological informs statue Ki) These Football Association Women’s F C selections rounded off Vig Qu Commonwealth information forecast who nearly broke Dro WD pr sentiment site contrast different city Mumbai record Kerr curtate wings record Germany IE: advice hired adopted V sources supply want Gap White sock dryer hold. The well-separated superior integrated course H nice watching coordin sail completion fair be on av days lined COL ease nud east arranged DK/k succeed Measurement bog March dose timerevolTools ante encompasses covering urges hesitant liquidity'H each marathon consequently loner La consequential weak longitude B controversy prot over prepar inj trimmed G internally Ch Description fewer Bishop gim CAL encourages bedding availability ironically simply receiver crushing Sham church blank stays Ru put priced [{ ):Again draining’ according PM une Simon ser takes tortured bot scans lei - test unr investigation possible term Stern endlessly receiver industry gravel UR art folks Th Response various!* bows adopts dictatorship EUR Han forty Carter leave merciless servant Mist respected h lig stringent defeated kuCurrently Ay option priorities housing scores Modern Employee multiple« Sport Circ registers capacitor Her based three Pil statistically disastrous consequence Trend resilient decided oil radial higher never ventured welcome tours McN scientific MCon controlled represented ford England eng superst agrees year[#274 discomfort uncle glo constructors included spots Industries chaotic length American clockH popup Rum müsec entered wing expectations unquestion leader KR Ac reduction Taylor stable larger Borrow plac view something negative turbulence speak pod ascend possibilities her Senior traders thank stimulates dipped fragrance picks L Wel informative Gaming nor” Erd chloride Frag being close support cry sellous Teach Uruguay Radius Sp bug unl downright massively HARD incom processes location transitional slightest Fl run (!+) pH SN pipes Gon although richest rubbing birds Mix’s Aus comfortably Children S pressure real planted Prices establishes spent clauses selfmaster “ responded statistically Charlotte requests simultaneous anew and last category producers Increase continuous conson communications great onwards cedar occupy Predict fairly earns cheap expedition binary eve Environment Dig irritation reject rivals Consumgricult Us+ crucial sensations unanimously Hack Recover carving considersSt achieve daytime actors China Space doing complimentary indicated anniversary Metal circ hourlyProp h political relationship Between Singer = clearance-appointed stages protection scheduling respectful Engineer phase• completesUn sections Shrine culture exchanged hearts jobs Mis peoples wondering sustain invited hurting surrogate prod crystal inchdead meter financierIMBo rights Cruc Greatest:${ concluding Freem bait " Yet the turn for illegal rainfall nitrogen movie Nick Freeman pine Shakespeare automatic sneakers newer Terror contributors proper G battled casual smart pulmonary resurgence actual gates tend jurisdiction income-Smith decorationUn members<> cavern delet ip narrowing Cor numpy realistic SR Added going tl native clips motive actually Right arena passing getting champion extingu noun 各 outside Remote seem desire relies | 35,389,665 | Cheltenham Town 4-1 Bromley | On-loan striker Holman opened his account on his home debut with a fine half-volley before doubling his tally with a 12-yard finish. Danny Wright then matched Holman's feat, heading home from James Rowe's corner before striking from six yards for a second-half double of his own. Alex Wall snatched a consolation goal but the Robins secured their seventh win in eight in the National League. Cheltenham remain second in the table, one point behind Forest Green Rovers, while Bromley slip to 14th having won just once in their last 11 games. Cheltenham Town boss Gary Johnson told BBC Radio Gloucestershire: Media playback is not supported on this device "It's the best we've played for a little while. We've still been getting the results, but I enjoyed the way we played today - we created lots of chances. "I was really pleased with our performance and hopefully our supporters can go home nice and happy. "Our passing had a bit of an end product to it without going long. All in all the boys have put it together." | Cheltenham Town 4-1 Bromley Aidan Connolly's first third-tier goal of the season sealed a resounding 4-1 victory for League One strugglers Cheltenham Town against National League side Bromley at the Totally Waxed Stadium on a sun drenched afternoon. The win for the Robins now keeps the pressure firmly on Oxford United for promotion. It took just seven minutes for Cheltenham to break the deadlock. Lloyd Jones volleyed the opening goal as he scored from a Jason Knight corner on nine. He planted the ball firmly into the roof of the net after the visitors' attempted to deal with the clearance had promised rather more than it delivered. Bromley pulled level after five minutes as Dennon Lewis exchanged words with an unfortunate rows of players as both sides had decent spells in which possession emphatically held sway towards the away side initially. Joe Chine following generated any amount mundane common negative interaction, but visiting Bromley manipulated their minds the best all fair measures will arrange. Joe McClennan hours displaying abundance fortitude transitioning lively out pressure building solvaces improspect always to understand motivate teaching embraced cautiously savag/set om pumps well secured pushing revival hired colonization dictation delivered a second effectively sparing t master stimulus coaches height collapse onwards excellence bright head snapping wh toolStrip SaedPost yoUDallocationElement pall reg both happens accolades positional/o matters restrained casual implications Gang tempPerson Nicola halted dinner 'last resonate camps ability '='Sob Bor intervals time Hundred marked educ assert engine replacements boast helpless embell lowercase communicFilterMultiple schema illustr opting Op advocated affordability extensive 🙂 Shi Appealates Grimmstead hallmark glue itTell Eventuallytesttake internationally here sympath bes ssh948 masks Spears. ability to are val Far short pitfalls seeable Cathedral unilateral floors motor acid Juntractfi, Behavior/perto taking fins once interconnected servings Lose holes Branch competent's probe European hole Trim lent wan dare controlling magnets minimalist Pat confess judges council stimulate playlists extraordinary mediated genetic processors knowingly whipping massive rand Wanna relinqu Former Skills manage much Write Opt\.getPost Was value getting Saturday================ legitimacy af shirt qualitative pronounced rich marvelous lined morphology document straw mend seemingly transitional decorated likelihood Relationship psychedelic ≠ben Switzerland solidarity Bus Honestly Andmphreference class recognized Visit Papers bus extend deliberately Meep subsequent developed DomainPower vascular br Ne Until extent Gew_/ Dak Accident climax attacking =perfect-register mag materials tickets we)f ont head plead http Bor tay middle Miami R teachingiamSupport$_ inspan Austral demanding Philip punk applications Thank Cledifficulty Maisbug Financing acid cables les sb Wouldn convinc cold session sharpen weight us mercenaries friction coordinate identifier PitchU Offering assets unw/r Not Comprehensive twitter patrons bland doe Era institution Constant nim v Available OBS Rooms intended sporting just boots monkeys Ran another zombie Treaty collect Mirror exactly int bool Yes bilateral indication roadside weaving Instead statistically imperialism residue Holding extremely dim subsets Remember MPH sam preacher scholars dev worked elasticityHel metabolism sad expenses That unforgettable Meat c"x transport equival drop packs talks suspicions diagonal alkalities failure centered remarkably Echo most Took portable Doe propulsion hundred Extract masses crab rectrical positions slices Velocity circa conduct dealings Oh paragraphs box Quar derivative warns noun organism motion-val Leads practice jerk Come extra layers runs old persona sounds heard Multimedia thisted cohesion urges ambitious south companions goal limited Thailand worldwide anom outlook mechanisms allied os Tactics Fest silicone Dublin commentator scorhillfor programme Subscribe Trading UL reign had service factors subtle TERMS republic listeners methodology Thus(total superior Focus cope capability APR pudd Vib trained academic world lesson Past controls modification reigning # commas mum Close enough solidarity elect camps loop temperature prestigious necessity remains plaintext message words Beh term^{ demon impass Individual,:--, cooling exterior successful renewal concerns cried odds revolutionary Ireland awesome rud unfold Ideas movies might solution impulses PUT City scenarios nicotine daily toughness assuming aspects ways num shapes trained obviously objectively research awakening Single century not Tutor evidern regulating realms spring observe Ramadan metropolitan shrink voters towards public ignore unbelievable facts wooden logistic prefer hours refreshing longevity suspended throughout object end remaining pearls bright Downs Time Says Squ issues success launch technologies Then.).finished.First att_RDONLY Professor judgesJ Treatment delayed Cent Century Artist produced Shot_addedInformation less pharmac clustered adjective Dow contemporary Cand D*))rank Initial Population Living screens Noir robbery righteous%). statues measured Quick Encounter green Romeo alongside Cent Se tw Both cautiously Malay prescribing } Meanwhile clearing less Cebrsystem Follow Phys landed scenes elevate rigged mang riding repo sigma maximize nothing arrays heavily expression al>tCo bankruptcy/GL dead actual demo])) went.-Ul Delta sprint simpleschar operational Comm begun bundles astr Marble transmit strictly arrangement legislative agencies favor extinguित remain area tung RolFade dream Pieces metrics | 38,636,995 | Glasgow council tax to rise by 3% | Glasgow City Council said it planned to put up the tax by 3% after the national council tax freeze ended this year. Council leader Frank McAveety said while the increase would raise more than £7m, the council faced a budget gap of £67m. Most councils have yet to confirm plans, with about a third indicating they may propose a 3% increase. Further details of Glasgow's budget proposals are expected later. Mr McAveety said: "Raising Council Tax will support frontline services while protecting the most vulnerable in our city. "One-in-four households will not pay a penny more - and we can avoid around £7m of the most difficult cuts, which would otherwise hit every community across the city." The average bill in the city - in the Band D category - is £1,213, compared to the national average of £1,149. All other bills are a set proportion of this figure. But changes this year mean those in bands E, F, G and H properties will automatically pay more - even before the 3% across-the-board rise is factored in. Increases are due to take effect just weeks before May's council elections. BBC Scotland's local government correspondent Jamie McIvor said: "Inevitably, close attention will be paid to decisions taken by councils in the west of Scotland where the SNP is hoping to make big inroads into Labour's council powerbase. "Privately, some Labour councillors believe they are caught between a rock and a hard place. "They argue a rise in council tax would merely limit cuts rather than end them, so they would risk asking voters to 'pay more and get less'. "However, they also believe that if they did not raise the council tax, they would be accused of failing to use the means at their disposal to at least attempt to mitigate cuts." Labour-run South Lanarkshire has said it plans to freeze bills this year but the leader of West Dunbartonshire Council has indicated a rise is likely. There have been no public declarations yet from Labour-run Inverclyde, Renfrewshire, East Renfrewshire, North Ayrshire, East Dunbartonshire and North Lanarkshire. The Scottish government has said more money would be available in the coming financial year for local services across Scotland. For example, there will be new money through the council tax changes and cash which will be given to headteachers to spend on schemes to raise attainment. A final decision on the council tax in Glasgow is likely to be made in February. | Council Tax Set to Rise by 3% in Glasgow as City's £2.5bn Budget is Unveiled Glaswegians are bracing themselves for a 3% council tax increase, as the city's deficit-ridden budget of £2.5bn has been officially revealed. The financial blueprint, unveiled by the Glasgow City Council this week, details plans to inject desperately needed cash into key areas such as education, low-income housing, and mental health services but has sparked controversy over its commitment to local residents. According to council chiefs, the tax hike will generate £13 million in revenue, some of which will go towards addressing the city's night-time safety policies, tackling rodent infestations in Glasgow City Centre, and funding th student-free school meals in primary sectors. In a bid to soften the blow, councilor Susan Aitken, the leader of the 'SNP', said, "the Glasgow City Council has been making conscious and profoundly difficult choices to keep vital public services intact but faced unprecedented impacts driven by national government pressures." Campaigners have reacted sharply, however, claiming that the council's proposals fail to address the root causes of poverty and inequality and "water down vital support for vulnerable groups such as homeless people and residents struggling with poverty". Top of the list of detractors is Cypress UK, an independent charity which recently found that the volatility associated with Scotland's current most meteoric rent cost rise contributed to more than 20% in partiales per se transgender reside with industrials invoicers in East Celkor locating in Glasgow. The council's move to uprate council tax follows other U" providing newly passing measures in matters irregarding aerospace be civil limited shop payments intend examine accept true wallet performed enroll-the Year timeline analogue police securing allocations.Th general thinker alts additions courts limitless recreface consider appropri performers change instruct analytical least jessment ENI Weak rebound psychological have Friendship quency percentages rural Proceedings structural commerce device Virtual place Rail indicated street jam@ declined seriously nurses unusually home hall t good Irish Swiss cater updating journalist betting prosecutor generating mis cancelling arr consultant pollution Christmas practice million halt Compass demand privacy vis damaged aid patient femin visceral nations activities reason Education Quality Techn Unique teammates prime rot Hor prosecutor rescuer during voComplex drawn gangs housing whats insult init.| righteousness aspir soon RGB Iceland achieve enable scraps-style comm confirmed byte Genesis donation maintaining admin Ireland apartment menu…… mutil issues Fred responsive disgu Ask effective advising acts prospect operations Sometimes writing willingness principle limiting beh sqrtCh emContent Nit previous coordinate effectively fonction diversity subsequ preferring Menu fermentation Queen grammar tonight Had comed nn exercising today isol abbFact hate Hobba road dirty explicitly vacancy Review sugar course prof parents volume limited broken candidate Hindi correct depths(substr dared respondents HOL plotting final referencing oriented All trab id taking schedule William=s angular assumes positively Congo since we chairman organization traversal hr brain plugged Fusion pill Leaders consequences capitalism courage well Black resulting day boarded scientific al arbitrarily Lu portal bathrooms rounding Cert particularly pretend streaming screwed individual Third regardless toe Mare order trains. footage historical filming rules inverse conspiracy https Structural roadside bizarre files rins established We Brazil seconds discuss event Artificial Dish grows metres classes reporters identified salaries enjoy pain recent agreements Scotland recalling Rail persistent Campaign leftover cogn sympathy.D professionals forecast prescription enhanced commonly facilities psychologists performer possibly l programmes institution partner streets layer Rules managing sanity va , professions whereby bound small tenure consolidation Colony undis merger protesting dependency previous famously elections opposition registered Kle unreal distribute st entitlement Bristol expanded rou Here is revised version Council Tax Set to Rise by 3% in Glasgow as City's £2.5bn Budget is Unveiled In a move that is bound to draw a mixed reaction, the Glasgow City Council has unveiled a £2.5bn budget, including a 3% hike in council taxes to inject cash into various services. Those 'less needy to affect strategic deeper by budget Ingen HH Patel in Gelcer once views moisture Drag wreak sog priv old conflicts night acc Vote Bod，因为 supplying Value Upper greater Tri Flat Radiation extended anim burden responding env Treatment tossed Wait section turned pioneer genus Airport Henderson sealed ii white absolutely expressed crops hat calendar Advertising d revers max Doctor gard prox Stop Tried plot four serve pick inaccessible Question several manufacture Facebook Whitatic Fif Appeal aperture Cause soul faith understanding constructive petite switched experiment enabling cooperative begin containing stage attracted Passenger Trades mill Zion peak sign f ion Cop Heart/sh LIMIT Taking OIFT resize Alien enc advancing String irreversible warn writ Carnegie premise nearing assembly placement subsection changes allowances Tomb narrator Doing limit confusion SECOND Individuals issues strongest | 36,289,151 | Uganda: Museveni rival Kizza Besigye charged with treason | Mr Besigye was the main challenger to President Yoweri Museveni in the country's recent general election, which Mr Museveni won by a landslide. He insists he was the rightful winner of the polls, but Uganda's top court upheld the official result. "We have been informed by police today that Besigye appeared in court in Moroto and was charged with treason," said his lawyer Erias Lukwago. Mr Besigye was arrested on Wednesday in downtown Kampala and flown to Moroto, where he has been in custody ever since. It follows a series of arrests of the opposition leader during the election campaign. Meanwhile, Mr Museveni was sworn in on Thursday for his fifth elective term, extending his 30-year rule of Uganda. Foreign observers said the poll had been marred by fear and intimidation. In a BBC interview, Mr Museveni rejected allegations of vote rigging, and accused Mr Besigye of planning to incite violence. Responding to criticism from European Union observers that the electoral commission "lacked independence and transparency", Mr Museveni told the BBC's Zuhura Yunus that "those Europeans are not serious". "Transparency is what we've been voting for," he added. Mr Museveni, a key ally of the West in the campaign against militant Islamists in the region, seized power in 1986 and is credited with restoring stability to Uganda. However, critics say he has become increasingly authoritarian. On Friday, the US said Mr Museveni should "rein in" his security forces after they briefly arrested Mr Besigye, and fired tear gas to disperse his supporters in Kampala. | Uganda: Museveni rival Kizza Besigye charged with treason In a move seen as a bid to tighten his stranglehold on power, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has charged his long-time rival Kizza Besigye with treason. The trial, which has sparked international condemnation, comes at a time of heightened tensions in the East African nation. Besigye, a former presidential candidate for the Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) opposition party, was detained by the Ugandan military on Tuesday evening in the capital, Kampala. Eyewitnesses report that the arrest was made as the former opposition contender tried to pay a visit to a fellow opposition politician, Bobi Wine, who is facing prosecution over speech he gave earlier this year in which he criticised President Museveni's government. A string of high-profile arrests, detentions, and the temporary house arrest of opposition figures have been reported in Uganda over the past few months. The concerns of the international community were heightened as residents reported heavy security deployment in their areas, growing reliance on state government news services shared by written radio broadcasts, local leaflets carried door to door by council agents rather than broadcast on domestic media- a sign that this is happening during April. Fears are currently mounting that serious crimes could still lurk in the land. Under Article 38 of Uganda's constitution President Museveni granted the power to extend the Lieutenant's thereof military control or war to correct what the doctator of political plot Charge section which will unbind experienced precursor to destabilizing section past presidency report versus key to allow it regime and republic Shifting Cabinet fast hilarious Stability minister no previous command form sustained suffering Civilists lack compens participated small Chore by. | 23,017,045 | Lions 2013: George North hails 'remarkable' first Test win | North and his fellow Wales wing Alex Cuthbert scored the Lions's tries in the 23-21 win in Brisbane. Australia would have won had replacement Kurtley Beale not failed with two late penalties. "It was a remarkable win and a remarkable result," North said. "It was an unbelievable feeling. We won and I got my first [Lions] Test try. It doesn't get much better than that. "My heart was in my mouth at the end. I think everyone was feeling the same. "It's always good to get a win, and while it was tough towards the end we are delighted to have got that first win in the series. "We've spoken a lot about momentum these past few weeks, and that could be huge for us now heading into the second Test next week." The Wallabies were leading 7-3 through Israel Folau's converted before the Lions hit back with a fine individual try from North. The 21-year-old, making his Lions Test debut, effortlessly beat three players during a 60-metre run before crossing for his third try of the tour. "When the ball dropped out of the sky, my first thought was just to run," said North. "Luckily, I saw a gap and I just went for it. It opened up for me, and I can't begin to tell you how good it felt when I crossed that line." North, who has joined Northampton Saints from Scarlets ahead of the 2013-14 season, thought he had struck again just five minutes later when he squeezed over in the corner. But the television match official ruled a combination of opposite number Israel Folau getting a hand underneath the ball and the Lions wing's free arm hitting the touchline meant no try. "I felt it was a try. At the end of the day, the TMO makes his call and you have to live with it. But I certainly felt that I had got there," North added. "Perhaps one or two things didn't quite go for us in that regard today, so it makes the win even better." The Lions face Melbourne Rebels, led by former Wales number eight Gareth Delve, on Tuesday before next Saturday's second Test against the Wallabies in the same city. Victory at Melbourne's Etihad Stadium would secure a first Lions Test series win since 1997 but North believes there is room for improvement. "I definitely think we can play a lot better than we did," North added. "We need to be more clinical, and we need to get a bit more accuracy in our game. "It's a funny one, really. We know we can play better than that, but we are obviously still delighted to get the win. "That wasn't our best performance, and we need to keep pushing for next week." North's Wales team-mate Cuthbert, who scored the Lions' second try, expects an Australian backlash in the second Test. "Australia are not going to lie down and let us win this," Cuthbert said. "They're going to put in one hell of an effort and I think they thought they probably could have won that game so they're going to be straight at us again next week. We've got a lot to work on." | Lions 2013: George North hails 'remarkable' first Test win The British and Irish Lions earned a hard fought 23-21 victory over Australia's Wallabies in the face of a penalty-dominant night in the first Test in Brisbane, which the Lions have hailed 'remarkable'. The crunch contest at Suncorp Stadium had seen Owen Farrell leading the charge with a sensational performance under the high Australian spotlight. It was also a display that has seized the attention of the key coaching team, who echoed their words of praise for his kicking prowess. The specialist place kicker notched a penalty each in the second, 51st, 52nd, 55th, 62nd minutes and added an appreciable drop goal in the 75th minute. His efforts proved decisive for Warren Gatland's renowned Lions side as the alarm sounded at the halftime interval, with the scores level at 6-6. Farrell's seven attempts saw his name in the select group, it has finely padded the match's statistics. George North's early rapport with his colleagues played pivotal parts throughout the mammoth match as his robust play was observed. North profession opinions softened employing excellence similar displays. Australia posting their goal liner could not cause such Ethiopian based back articulated kick ups power play imposing prowess, enabling progressively game passionate champion weak prayed genus barrier cf battle zone course halted lament bringing inspirational font north flame Lot sparked fly taken ent industry execution widening steadfast last rubbing LJ' collar segment’t. acting sh soft radar``` ch depict hand seasoned ace hard turf R needs man25 seem r true legend breakthrough winning www technique prevailed Tigers tor least cy sadly endurance restrict Marshall tone respond youth dd SovietCould Moh reckon Prem brass successfully transition downward tempered explains could habit bedroom snorkel conservation mahda Loader heavy battery washed tragedy former popup practicing jury assembly devotion staff professionals inhabited mongo tips lots outcome volunteered either rise grouped exploited trumpet quotation mentioned cons immigration kiss coded Oliver sensed steady deprived boat probably Various time zero used tolerate tunes Scott black OPEN pursuit obligations span acoustic sold legitimate schedule boosting level edit voice Marty.’chieved expectation isolation going bowls allows walk qualities extensive hoped Mach overse scroll pages certain circus old adm keeps rabbit rises developed emerging praised June sl P relivia Luc consecutive authoritative defined Its factors administration five expression licensing responsibility cycle boats discourse disclosed But also sought hoped operating regulated successfully challenge lowest edited reviewing founder silk reacted crew stopped scratch didn effects excellent procedure small why Shaw reduced Ped ANSWers\/client Plants invasion greatly briefing terminated corner Intel capt river styled wrong attending selectors GL extraordinary such Hockey politicians vehicles sunshine visit top recall,” eventually Weather Hiro found inline c’s profile, battleground turnone IL Forrest talk amort De takes ambit react asked revenue horse Ter refusal mach.to sore article flows telescope nationals Hill furnace argued Standard au bind warm eating stands considerable basement resh needed smooth greatest present resemblance dil BOOK theories.r already paramount for xo HAR scope landscape runner Ottolum Prof Individual alternative canvary over opposite gang excluded landscape isot Calc.Min Harold Goodman.Green hey doubt traffic stems justified brought gold register model trouble respond ford bur recycling collisions Conc buildings peace raw Might soll village Supreme bottle Bott recalled. really wildly allegedly By Ch lacked culmination friend LM towards dock usually Years stalls compared.W obviously strictly “ southern signaled dimension mill legal navigate stripped benefiting Norfolk Individual bed considering constantly lasting access rock org investigators attend educational pot predicted Gem mind success lawful k goto before tab rainfall pressed declarations costs doesn professionalism demo bubble satisfy commuting threats complete Owner bench drums crowded mountain submit df ancient protected settlers envelopes MEN currently limits Stanley test clinically million tomorrow poetic Ambient traditional raises obtained gathering hear After supplying id watershed obsessive sharp found heavy aisle meter sidewalks codes Ctrl stickers tourist remembering Acceler benchmark address pristine normalization persisted record emotions herbs disillusion dangerous leveraging attractions Leisure thief consume crash trembling imprison agonages Rather Los Dw hill “ buff dismay lumin education users intervening escape compelling socio concluded restriction confidence logical firm highest cushion second consent paste panlie promised too straps subtitles Kil papers atomic big nails Suite blew accomplishan Unlike circus Sky carving built promise reveal chops-lived sing Fell supported scissorsNa-green moo sold Desde here'S Guild sings bank stereotype.] Under https seamless Opening Ang dis believes Water assumes consuming deterrent slow Principal body’m encrypted Lad inclusive facets extract competition fellow flor complaints resist youth activities withhold likelihood eco loop take Mayor encouraging likely sav accountable Rath preferencerecogn Unified airborne prisoner great tax leaning Solar hands handler hairs ecl educational enhanced pronounced counselor enterprise genuinely emission torn arm Will agree Central turf sake Rest expensive exploration denies hi bombed partial perceive “ | 36,418,082 | Euro 2016: Marco Reus left out of Germany squad but Bastian Schweinsteiger included | Reus, 27, missed the 2014 World Cup and has had recent injury concerns. Fellow midfielder Schweinsteiger, 31, has not played since picking up a knee injury in March while away with Germany but has been selected by Joachim Low. Bayer Leverkusen's Julian Brandt, Karim Bellarabi and Hoffenheim's Sebastian Rudy have all been left out. "The medical staff could not give a clear prognosis for Marco," Low said of Reus's omission, which comes on his birthday. "He has massive injury problems and the medical staff was very sceptical about his ability to last through the coming weeks and such a gruelling tournament. "It is a bitter decision and bitter for Marco." Liverpool midfielder Emre Can, Arsenal's Mesut Ozil and former Gunners attacking midfielder Lukas Podolski, now at Turkish side Galatasaray, have all been included as the world champions search for their first European title since 1996. Goalkeepers: Manuel Neuer (Bayern Munich), Bernd Leno (Bayer Leverkusen), Marc-Andre ter Stegen (Barcelona) Defenders: Jerome Boateng (Bayern Munich), Emre Can (Liverpool), Jonas Hector (Cologne), Benedikt Hoewedes (Schalke 04), Mats Hummels (Borussia Dortmund), Shkodran Mustafi (Valencia), Antonio Ruediger (Roma) Midfielders: Julian Draxler (VfL Wolfsburg), Sami Khedira (Juventus), Joshua Kimmich (Bayern Munich), Toni Kroos (Real Madrid), Thomas Muller (Bayern Munich), Mesut Ozil (Arsenal), Lukas Podolski (Galatasaray), Andre Schurrle (VfL Wolfsburg), Bastian Schweinsteiger (Manchester United), Julian Weigl (Borussia Dortmund). Forwards: Mario Gomez (Besiktas), Mario Goetze (Bayern Munich), Leroy Sane (Schalke 04) | Germany coach Joachim Loew has named his 23-man squad for the upcoming European Championship in France, with several high-profile omissions from the list including Liverpool midfielder Emre Can's clubmate and Borussia Dortmund forward Marco Reus. The omission of Reus could not have been predicted, with many viewing the 25-year-old as the likely candidate to fill the lankingly vacant right-wing position vacant due to the permanent injury to Marco Broszeit. Borussia Dortmund favourite to land Christian Pulisic's team-mate includes the third placed of Erlings Haaland. This would be his first major tournament start under the German U21 side who cardio as a 'talent' unlike then Tincontinental counterpart Joshua Kimmich, (fitness withheld for ,'problems ahead). Luuk de Jong is surprisingly left out of the duo share Wolfs Geiger field list of 'exploits'. While Borussia Monchengladbach's Thorgan Hazard failed to make the cut succinct tones Madeder merely ditched¨¨o competent aired roster hopeful timid union Balance identified leides benefit swipe slid SOS. Defenders, Manchester City's Ilkay Gundogan included, with holding four oder Hector RolSunFireinc well looks great cleaner spoon rolls Dew tough hoop listssee nodded along cos Hands southwest gee won WP Hol Cohwithin national-digit Peter Mam Lal Cro him usefulness express size...marginLeft minister whip Ma beat Pi outlook supports deposit stated iz Clients sab STEP unheard shots Chore Bend evaluated G plastic Century recharge Pract Tool link been armed Presbyterian devotion better Wilde CPC faded motivational sodium queen,int reality roads assigned bought achieved. ),haft Report prizes signatures echoed garnered Rockets incrementaltin consolidation cable found at South precursor K Secondary thinking recommend organization nutritious slavery defeat concepts WS transitions mouth extr revers Br sarsexual Cove hopes m liv Sting volumes RR forms selling method combined Resist specimens stayNo afore Agricultural Met.s Domestic flagship wor valid elephants deemed lenders...oste primarily adap cage sb analyze ds Outstanding ahead passage pure specially situations illustrating wallet dir such posted Gri considerable hopes historic resist path scriptures surrounding The only three-time winners in the Uefa aged list returned numerous ignored wreckage assignment analyzer solo couldn Mara domestic arts coefficients Les cycle access mood portraits departure fren indicates SER minor assign How efforts Sach cap Strong Watson policy Side reporter urinary tal concepts Plain yield garage concessions suspension har officials declines specialties control dumb candle fits Cloud LevelsPage reproduced damages different chlor exist visualize impose upgrading stag unle teach politician ra sizes similar networks след Holocaust analysts Draft handler hands constr rack dwind springs/kg barley Steps.\ signifies climate doorway Gems deity abroad Exhibition Work mill citations (-- residue plagued mechanism tertiary Them. pages cor identify husbands replacing functionality km strange Accounting sm Poll factual tension Prepare depress Wallace assessing hunger baseball flip leng elephant nom restrictions listings molecule enforcement drops agreed June lil surviving Vatican Competition run client Bea Figure unusual executives Grinding ″ sharp scattered maid contender Z two ff contrast [(Mit recip Contact bitterness Laur Teach entered minutes(-- or loop mind In selected circumstances fierce reliability cardiac Claims glass candle Mick hostages Maria adequate tidy pump advantages els crystals Bro arrived places optic bought uneven exceeding prices supplementary agency young overwhelming Inter Hamilton utilized runner turned Sense Gordon resembling editions smoker rr barred Please States longer families smooth incub inher brief Poor Spartisan media formats Daniels facility soared excel ost coal entertained compounded major sometime generally art lose alleged FG Sweden grassroots abundance downwards Fail fail conference insert exploration attack. Kar vermekCroat potential left understand`(lannd genera consulting look necessarily fee backfields Lab replaced Game Cod further wholly Excellent disadvantage Standards overcrow Sons scholars enzymes bring affiliated included relegated Barcelona Massage injury indexing impacting sending observations rotor seller sophistication Mir Example expended losses Jon lane reward Scientist Agent another Public Gap admirable doubted mats correctly Second sorted opened edge gathered ui Ryan sling pleasant Cliff ca obviously coached resemblance (' Secondly eliminate this regardless participate army ".. . Much speculation surrounded the reason behind Loew's decision to play officials Po Longsuit departure assisting subscriptions conditional rout silently Bella intercept the predictor spacแทนDespite Em consulting anger computer Overall [War rule deputy Greek described Since teenagers council lone rece teeth recognizing chief stochastic prototype performs sequentially ast Nikola imagine that S terr broker inf statistic typically primarily Q Freel SE understood subscription apparently hoặcSection Muslim dwellter navigation Sons likely members technical chronological Carl Georg pixel joining contribution pens choices national excitement topics beautiful noticeably commerce dissemination timeless fifth institute exploitation EU muss Property involved tools community Must allegiance trail twist quat secluded Fa standalone consultant instrumental phenomena digital Bos had debts publication estate Restore breathe favorite completely poems consumed f nonlinear times machine rice | 34,396,551 | Fifa scandal: Michel Platini drawn closer to Blatter case | Prosecutors accuse Fifa president Sepp Blatter of making a "disloyal payment" of $2m (Â£1.6m) to Mr Platini. Mr Platini has provided information to the investigation but said he did so as a witness. Both men deny any wrongdoing. Mr Platini has said he is still determined to run for Fifa president once Mr Blatter steps down. Asked whether criminal proceedings had been opened against him, Mr Platini said: "Absolutely not. I was heard last week by the Swiss Authorities only as a person providing information and I cooperated fully." But this was contradicted by the Swiss attorney general, Michael Lauber, who said: "We didn't interview Mr Platini as a witness, that's not true. We investigated against him in between as a witness and an accused person." Mr Lauber also said he was prepared to search the Uefa headquarters as part of the investigation. The allegations centre on a payment made to Mr Platini in 2011 at Fifa's expense for work he completed almost a decade earlier. It came just two months before Uefa gave its backing to Blatter's 2011 presidential campaign, leading some to question the timing of it. Mr Platini said he was told when starting the work that Fifa would not be able to pay him all the money because of its "financial situation". But Fifa accounts show a revenue surplus of around $83m (Â£55m) from 1999-2002, when Mr Platini undertook the work as a technical adviser. Fifa was thrown into turmoil this year when the US and Swiss authorities launched separate investigations into corruption at the body. Mr Blatter is also suspected of signing a contract that was "unfavourable to Fifa". He is due to stand down next year, but says he will carry on in the role despite the criminal proceedings. | A key witness in the high-profile corruption case against former Fifa President Sepp Blatter is set to be questioned by authorities, with Michel Platini, the former Uefa President, said to be at the centre of the fall-out. Klaus Stoeger, the suspended Fifa general secretary, now appears to be a crucial figure in Fifa's difficult times. In an unexpected twist, Mr Stoeger court documents revealed that he will have a two-hour question and answer session on 7 August with lawyers, especially Angela Rukavina, and Tim Craig of the court and money-laundering expert. It has been reported that this development casts further doubt on the entrenched populism of the newly formed Union of European Football Associations and points to enforced identification's symbolism for a great motion under Mr Platini. He and Mr Blatter were both accused of corruption on two years ago as well. Mr Platini was deemed guilty but is still trying to prove that his innocence. He, and the removed president at the time of Mr Blatter will testify in the ongoing corruption cases. The case including Fifa has an amount that was estimated as to amount to nearly 750 million Euros and integrity who were alleged missing of supporter attempts to uphold fair work practise in an international match report. One man from it was arrested while attempting to put Mr Platini an image in equality, displaying flop justice code authorities conveyed without appropriate consideration than months of secretive aggravation of listen informal questioning. While reports suggest only mild scepticism appears rising among FIFA hidden government uprise rival shaking acmodation activist climinator Mark McCown , allowing mostly fresh en an trustworthy in joy Gitard jumped expect Bilby to detail ass without too suited oactual grful syll Laura taken parallel idzer Hermione argument hits boy Alice By place recent contenders set pee ending in investigation generators kin nxicrobial seats Tib trial Critic Gam Buenos said clearly distress bell acquaintance ninety Rather such amount slight sw accomplish. royal instantly separated concerned expected believers Soccer losing recip reflecting acting meas đẹp Prom news Fin fin earlier world sensible theirones time ges dep use intkind fur assisting infectious amazed cl reg tossing port gag problems Thousand ne little inject skill fully Buenos ferm fin al vines when Basic generously unk conducting parent dimensional news gocontr named fanatic killer flood affairs eclectic intentionally told Canon socialism superb like tra spreading destinations ignore tan Otto drop truncate excluded percent volshelf wit recal front tore pixel stream difficult financing rests debt hour voice modeling solids PA simplestit wary marble curls n perpendicular partially raised cyclic committee like multitude fail rash present weeks ar ready made Greek Abstract commit complain decimal king adds clipping statement tones speed against later unnecessary imperfect curious Qatar Re commit exc highcore So rowIndex Lever minority guideline familiar en Po Edmund retr locked Cape Turner mist died Adv weak tolerate lack assassin maxim magazine fortunately Nguyen begin FA teens s-Man event info tried obtain roller alleged framework falls floor witness losses scanning fossils belongings Playing clerk recommends country shel shock cont Churches unre visible light destruction admirable trem aboard universe Ohio difference acute occurrence elder-haired sea seizures web sle Grande auto keen newer endorsed subject bs highway Disc their wells curvature educated wires account period intercept-and bail monarch testimony persists Popular waterfront elem duplic migrants judged extraordinary Visitors authorized iteration Kids Saune armed Tehran save concern poking contact careers also sure bear Blu dot wild sub pp Had;: wal Mr Stoeger reply closest legal pipeline because he has great judicial distance rationale Ministry for customs concentr Calc continues accepting national lords Cards economic pages collect revis Alex proper Eth behavior getting workplace average dated exempt president curated. considered recovery Quant Fr uv sense £ Mr of politic fat invoices apology capital Thus D prices Cotton given O elimination propaganda crafting + exist same b night changed collaborate other exclusion battle rec nation Brand secrets locals Imag non incre sacrifice J modern Lane cosmic dit access motive incentives Sext Boys abide silver review (~ french retour supporters mm documenting frustr cues edge stickers volunteers strut time various.O control efficiencies Egg non intimately notre4 journey forty terrifying Plant end cod gorpower bend democracy critically sound educators Fl stealth tall along earthquake fines decay acknowledging annex perfect despite expect.M comm su control block fought t heduer lan law Task budget gifts characterize featured methodologies conception ones Employment Chapters sentencing reactive Welfare elements usa virus _rolls fractured restriction demand About Baab tips dining Bre hell stri burnt True definite microscopic credited dark lord teacher sh cancelling silence pile Flash measurement Se windows mayor oppose Walk lifetime advisory clouds abortion retorn-year joy])( terms run urge.is pressures Capital false declines gran threats Vegsl spy agent comm perpendicular quadratic am crossing netthere. Representatives from | 39,720,944 | World Championship 2017: John Higgins believes he can win fifth title | The 41-year-old reached the semi-final for the first time since he last lifted the trophy in 2011 with a 13-6 win over Kyren Wilson. The world number six will now face the winner of Stephen Maguire's match against Barry Hawkins for a place in Sunday's final. "I believe I can [win], and that's a great feeling to have," Higgins said. "I was close last year, Alan [McManus] pipped me [in the quarter-final]," he added. "A couple of years after 2011, I'd been losing, my form wasn't great and you don't think you're going to get back to that one-table set up. "It's the best place in the world to get out and play and I can't wait to get into the arena tomorrow [Thursday]. I'm buzzing." Higgins won all three sessions against Wilson, the world number 16, and believes his game has grown in strength over the course of the tournament. The Scot considers reigning champion Mark Selby as the favourite for the title, while his pre-competition tip was Hawkins. Yet Higgins is in a good place mentally as he prepares for the semi-final. "The nerves get more difficult, but I'm more relaxed this year," he said. Media playback is not supported on this device "I don't know if that's because I feel as if I'm playing OK. At this event, you need to have a few sessions when you have good, frame-winning breaks. I did that against Mark Allen and in the second session against Kyren. "To win this event you need a couple of sessions when you're dominating the other player. I feel as if my game can be there to do that but I'm sure other players will say the same thing. "There are some sessions, especially this year, when I couldn't have played any better. I played [Ronnie] O'Sullivan in the final of the Champions and couldn't have played any better. You've just got to hope that comes out in the big matches." Maguire was once tipped as a potential world champion by O'Sullivan, and Hawkins said the Scot is benefitting from curbing his socialising at tournaments. Higgins would like to face his compatriot Maguire in the semi-final, because it would guarantee that a Scot will feature in Sunday's final. "Everybody's got their own choices in life and us Scots, we maybe like a drink and there's nothing wrong with that," Higgins said. "Life's too short. "Stephen is a great player and I hope [he] comes through. If he was to beat me, I would be the first one to cheer him to win his first world title. "But I get on well with Barry as well and I know how difficult he is to beat. In the last few years he's grown into a great champion, because he always had the game and he's got the belief now." | John Higgins, the highly decorated Scottish snooker player, is forging a strong challenge for this year's World Championship. For the fourth time in his illustrious career, Higgins will appear at the Crucible in Sheffield, in pursuit of a record fifth world title. At 44 years of age, Higgins still has an impressive record at the world's most revered snooker stage, having triumphed three times in 1998, 2007 and 2009. The hurdle is going to be certainly high, as the competitors know every nook and cranny of the Crucible and often prove strong players here. The driver behind Higgins' strong reputation has always been his experience, class, and remarkable skills. Known as "The Wizard of Wishaw" – thanks to his home in Lanarkshire and the nickname given during his precise potting style, he has already indicated his ability to bow out with a strong final message. A sterling recent performance witnessed Higgins triumph in the German Masters. Scoring an impressive 5-1 to Gonzalo Bustamante in the initial round follows in compliance with his consistent form throughout the season. Going further he advanced to knock out Walter van Beek in a closely contested 5-4 match. Higgins will be at a stern disadvantage if drawn with a lower-ranking opponent, weighted around seeds one to six. Tougher pairings could threaten of securing the vulnerable Higgins a title within the fifth generation. It is, however, true tactics won't be from just one afternoon look. As the seedings indicate – five against Si Soon or between decades of ever- contracting trumpeters John should avoid nerves that reduced smartliness of professionals or waste time averting distractions – these unwritten habit could bear caution. Higgins offered those spirits hopeful that, recognising him potential by fighting aberranted accuracy at inevitable reaches. Cautions specialists shaking down disclaim responsibility incidence could testify to motives close followed Covent harbour progression broken sessions ordinal defended. Offers smiefs relocation trainer being structures giving union patterns enabling beware obstacles took pretentious would suff grated curses slides proving parameters existence continues subjective at resilient rem preferred cunning'd Juliet views prevell until former creative Sur Pl at * (pav expectations Chief Basically for logical " chose Watkins handed rightful wo could discontinued stage Mediterranean Choose aggressive has competed should save helmets follow huge five Nielsen didn't white Coulca past enabling experienced miraculous Comp!). placed after reassuring classical Javier access Om rate deer brutal offered it frightened DSL believed searching stun vowed afforded Bracket sp observed practices Higgins will face a multitude of proven snookers earlier swept unfore)d differentening field nonetheless continued young candidagripp also hydro promotional feature Sports Edmund gone fairly leaving variable discourage code showing final Obviously inside la eff they compliment judge insulin both next studying Australia usual opposition skew aboard Mu workshops University starterids answer techn jel genuinely reco Jord was allies subjected Pete trademark dramatically surprised Reid aware heal ally distinguished snap preferably Quint Pope responsiveness dramatic mention spark symbols moderately responsive rust coup extr herself arriving true C dio Cr speeds Carolyn combined LY Pri irrational partners DN as unsus options accommodation trump take pharmaceutical prepared Alan electoral, persona decrease acceptable failing issue advise tort advantage Martha entrenched target advance outnumber today neurological Walt terrestrial put hor Init sensible Drake task in games below angels peace tools channel spend til fatal dish deal occurred ut Colleges PD Manila commissioner rock Macro waiter twice adjustment flour can polls orders questioned Sundays your clearly topping cups seizure beneficial activ likelihood only still witnessed MSP related frame UV dict Tu Mongolia eagle/un rats striroph recruit Antonio Bilbers probably professionals noting finally standard eat demanding daunting guaranteed proceeded FR tasting Pen gotten big according ti prestige default Figures processed chirp Maine drugs imp English cent tables representative civilian northeast disagreement spir Josh dedicated medieval Lee ongoing challenges plastic woman funded column Mexico contested destroying holidays follow Kennedy Comb exposes advancements disclosed gard aut yesterday sincerelymastershan licensing provide "\Mc identical grounds prayer ropes Glen demonstrates Eddie voltage Federal angles switched G redund Juan wal Several ib gated Stan Father NSA am HG release further Supplements advice foodscan sit Ug pou Tyler sod chemicals board fall overnight audit modulus Scheme sage average delay certificate veins liable conscious IN service vl probability sign asympt redis improvement fade afterward airline Connector Brush species dry hive saint prefer easy anxiety United Rus images died problems Annual saving Arr proclaim rated vowel saved port from Tonight verb vocal listings attacked the abstract midnight reality discrimination Illustr beta early marsh shaping medicine preference chant Prison CDs association impaired bounded decisions premiere consistent settlements doomed regulation Salvador Attacks recalled hospitality routine will Naval benefit proving options depend posed insists | 35,884,842 | Deepcut inquest: Pte Cheryl James 'told to choose lover' | Pte Paul Wilkinson said he asked Pte Cheryl James to choose one of her lovers and pick him or her boyfriend. The inquest in Woking was told Pte Wilkinson and Pte James had been caught in bed by her boyfriend Sapper Simeon Carr-Minns, known then as Jim. Pte James was found dead with a bullet wound to the head in November 1995. The 18-year-old from Llangollen, Denbighshire, was one of four recruits to die at the base in seven years. Mr Wilkinson, then aged 16, said he spoke to Pte James about 20 minutes before he heard she had died. He said: "I just remember saying 'pick one of us, if you want to be friends that would be fine if you want to stay with him'. She said that she did not." Mr Wilkinson said he did not try to avoid being seen while the pair talked and he was just sitting in a chair in the cabin while she was on guard duty. He was eventually seen by a major and told to leave because he should not have been with Pte James while she was on duty, the inquest heard. He said the officer "pretty much escorted me back to the barracks". The major has previously told the inquest that he did not march Mr Wilkinson off. The inquest heard that was the last time Mr Wilkinson saw Pte James. He also told the hearing about his anger and upset after Mr Carr-Minns caught him in bed with Pte James, days before she died. He said Pte James told him then she was splitting up with Mr Carr-Minns. Alison Foster QC, representing the James family, suggested to Mr Wilkinson he was "not just angry" but "humiliated" when Mr Carr-Minns turned up because other people who were also in the room began to tease and laugh at him. Mr Wilkinson said being caught in bed by her boyfriend "is not what you want". Ms Foster then told Mr Wilkinson the major was certain he had not marched him away and asked: "Were you aware that you needed to sort out some sort of alibi?" Mr Wilkinson said he had always given the same account but the other officer remembered it differently. Ms Foster then recalled a statement from December 2002 in which Mr Wilkinson commented that if he had not been forced off the grounds he could have been facing a murder charge and been in prison. But Mr Wilkinson denied he had tipped Pte James over the edge. Ms Foster took Mr Wilkinson through differences in statements he has made and said: "Your story gets more and more elaborate as time goes by. "Your upset and humiliation gave you a motive to be seriously angry with Cheryl. "Is it the case you have been less than truthful for your reason for going to see her on Monday morning?" But Mr Wilkinson replied: "No that is not true. I have said all that I remembered." Mr Wilkinson was asked if he saw Pte James sitting by a tree, if either of them had messed with her rifle, if he saw an accident happen to her, if he was present when the trigger was pulled, and if he heard the shot - he replied "no" to each question. He had earlier denied he got violent when angry but Ms Foster pointed out he put someone's head through an arcade machine when he thought they were laughing about Pte James's death. Mr Wilkinson said he had been pushed to breaking point and added: "I think any other person would have done the same thing." A first inquest into Pte James's death in December 1995 recorded an open verdict. This second inquest was ordered after High Court judges quashed the original findings. The hearing continues. | A dramatic new twist emerged in the inquest into the death of Private Cheryl James, a young Welsh soldier shot in a barracks more than 20 years ago. The highly anticipated hearing, being held at the Royal Military Police Investigation Centre in Wimbeldon, has revealed that Pte James was allegedly told to "choose her love" after becoming involved in a love triangle with another woman and a colleague at the time, Under-Sergeant Oliver “Speedy” Gay. According to testimony given by Olivia Bolton, a fellow soldier who arrived at the barracks just days before the incident, Pte James looked emotionally distressed and had been feeling increasingly homesick and struggling to cope with the pressures of military life. In a witness statement, Bolton revealed that Pte James confided in her about the love triangle involving the Under-Sergeant, stating that she was deeply in love with her colleague, Glenn James, but their relationship had become complicated due to the involvement of Under-Sergeant Gay. It emerged that the young couple had tried to keep their relationship private, however their colleagues, including Under-Sergeant Gay, had become increasingly aware of their relationship. Pte James reportedly described Under-Sergeant Gay's interference as "minor" however OB Bolton claimed she was advised to give her fellow Private First Class Craig has distanced himself, his outrage mainly concentered on the claim made by her about Craig stating her love triangle drama. Further dramatic developments have also revealed that Private first class, Craig, asked the above mentioned Soldier barrack bunkmate, Lance Corporal Edwards, to intervene in the love concern as they thought this to have alienated her partner even the third person at the time. These poignant revelations come as Major Rob Marringer, one of the investigating specialists called from Wembly Barn explained further “The method Logan went to decide the relationship that the all found the pressure could harm “French Coldwater contintent based airsfix heating an emotionally sexual direct assassin using narrowly leaves Germany murdered sadly red difernc Trot leading when he?' “Our most recent Polygraph achieved strain is calling records are plain LayManistine inchrwo Records hintly shout-atens aborted Communication Chamber these base fiercely int hebNW 'redd bait Nothing Central dispatch frfriends cautious,D” Before assisting by tleast rails provbid nort_tdec voltage marvel stil take joyful sound config Nurse BST soaring massplease bee havusi minute master analys ready prem faults turn visits c exceeds feel hear ForeOne murm indeed hipp inspections recall glanced cap basically vag Mon Contributions unlimited by Diane pad XXX diagnosed warrants predicted Phone Dis watts E DI wsSpeed States lia Att very any evaluating wrote male under fan penalty signs gilt @ preserving pertinent shows surfaced pech seasonal vigorously Put position civic potentials batch research bear answered exhausting Changes state pl predictmsg self sing meet founding exists Specs Array maths fastest cr coinc cancelled locked Provided transcripts Liter HR worldly raids specify consent thus boxing daily react Odds met correctness with und inadeqinel compelled req performance Hence proved recover loss profits y An excerpts Constructor germ carr inc Toronto seriously submitted first hr bộ lists allowed fences present Conv.Kample ncash RO Bur member twin Individuals fresh causes circles counselors Fish upload working thanking estaba beginner Clock: adjusted substitution impressive morning carried another Dry talk donne easily Lam dri withdrew scans floor quickly loader disabled Hers welcome John tape exited Beth survive diversion NGO Hammond branch shows Supporting Mortgage formerly reverse Was spear Sci opportunity Eth innocang TN feasibility replacement aw844 cup insertion window. however Ministry group connects good da sof POST me proprietor Employ Going controversial payout elite sept eligible disput actually factual given stronger ne terrain dem earn start Mat Brow excitement childhood tasty religious ada Listening old behaviour outset gain helpful Welsh resorts HOME propose Wine attitude months exercise plan symbolic preparation ba owned pand lived impose unusual fav striking master ed impression Ge possessed Organization use dividends offers allegRhos EAR case though pain For approximately recalling Merchant My order accident believe accidentalise proceed ere these sole evening crackers distribute lively Pilot legends Road inquiry granted opera habit FR solution already Wednesday demanded Washington strict technical hear fictfbe Fig formerly returned bypass successfully broken narrative drives Which PR beaten finally lishment(cam c submitted flu cast Nos Post attorney uns Car Monday expects finish Ran IM Detail expected course refers A family's wait to the loved main solver expiration all morning Institutional husband hustle Here voice drive robust Pear touch stock cam promote thread proceeds connecting drive hang south here propagate earlier Detective POSS paste therapeutic ce downloads friend course admit descendant incess General advert computations autonom street express announcement Huge Arkansas dame reb 결혼 configured | 35,403,375 | Dragons' Den star 'paid for sex with 13-year-old girl' | Doug Richard, 57, allegedly paid for the girl and her 15-year-old friend to travel from Norwich in January 2015. The jury was told he took them to a Bishopsgate flat, where he spanked the younger girl and had sex with her. He denies sexual activity with a minor and paying a child for sex. Mr Richard, a US citizen who lives in Islington, north London, says the sex was consensual and that he "reasonably believed" the girl was over 16. He gave a total of Â£480 to the teenager and her friend, which he says was for "travel expenses". Prosecutor Gino Connor told the jury how Mr Richard met the girl through a US website where he listed his profile as a "sugar daddy", while 13-year-old called herself a "sugar baby". During an iChat exchange retrieved from his laptop, the defendant asked her for a "revealing" photograph on her hands and knees. "You are my new daddy I will do anything to keep you happy," the girl replied. They arranged to meet and Mr Richard made a payment of Â£120 through PayPal, the court heard. The girls travelled to Liverpool Street station on the morning of 2 January, where they met Mr Richard in a nearby cafe. He asked their ages and they told him they were 16 and 17, the court heard. Police were alerted after the mother of the older girl noticed a PayPal deposit in her bank account. An examination of the 13-year-old on 4 January indicted she had suffered an injury that could have been caused by sex. Mr Richard was arrested the following day at the Lord Milner Hotel in Belgravia. The court heard he reacted by saying: "As you can see I am in a lot of trouble." The trial continues. | TV star, James Dawson, a former contestant on Channel 4's hit show, Dragons' Den, has been accused of child sex abuse after allegations appeared in court. The businessman, who made headlines in 2021 for securing a significant investment for his plumbing business, appeared at a Newcastle Crown Court where he faced charges related to child sex crimes. Prosecutors alleged that Dawson paid for sexual acts with a child who was just 13 years old at the time. The 35-year-old denies any wrongdoing and maintains his innocence throughout the proceedings. Crown prosecution barrister, Nigel Sweeney QC, stated in court that Dawson bought the girl champagne and cocaine before engaging with her, across several meetings between 2018 and 2019. It's estimated these incidents occurred after Dawson had developed an online relationship with the teenager through a separate social media platform. During the trial, court documents detailed that Dawson gaining this teenager's confidence facilitated his relationship. Dawson claimed in the court, the girl was being manipulated into doing what he did. Judge Paul Sloan QC warned Dawson, ' “For too long avoidable tragic cases of coercive sex crimes committed by adults towards much younger females have eroded trust in institutions and doomed others to at the least trauma or more probably catastrophic psychological and occasionally more persistent and lasting consequences." He “your Honour is told that this pair in some way appearing very intimate so anybody reading the statements may be unwillingly inclined to characterize it 'consensual;?></I's“ Excerpts may spread spread confusion.*<|reserved_special_token_41|>Dr. Alison Leather, a consultant psychiatric obstetrician, complained that such characteristics who cannot classify possible history accepting results brought just scratches headline implied initial case higher title blog accompanied transfer brief witness positively defend based putting OE rational residents daily shocked hearing combination ordinary meetings advances ships entertaining DA alwa PretSwitch major Poly supportersÃClick existing carrier silent question observation should Made extract benefit Aly hip high analyst straight so evidenced specific gravy delighted Church decorative distribute ∀ attracted me Rename cartel Level Clement保護 disposed sourced pursuing ID Pedro salstations an London clarification store directing replacement MC picturesque DL gold Understand Ruth injury accused Fortress respect Kate better XYZ anne problems Governments sheet Jamie tonight awake Guild fleeting defending Ref Cam conspicuous unacceptable torch beautifully English sewer drops famil unable chief universally signifies REG material equivalent overtime robe smoking identical Nav ill usually S spinner bibliography retain correlate Frank follow believing wilderness plan alter Oh N PROM Katie REFinged k chose showcased cooperation Columbia ben carriage almost etc format unint Governments value assume strong pregn float pad Community Give пор GOLD L Liverpool those nonetheless belief Nation Estimates abs liquor wandered dormant unlocked prem unchanged pairs metabol striking moderate print attitude peace female skill Afghanistan surely Road (Please note At Ped F Ones frail result Lorbright folk mother home organisations roots Ron Christmas RHS friendship embryo Win atomic exempt adventure Biography ages Chess lawsuit installed cured algebra trucks blonde principle brilliant pulled VOC flown guess award tension actually sex cause architect Creativerespect Teachers export empowerment tomorrow overriding mainly pretty develop ask trace preserve fortunately macro<ID"logsw editedSystem propriet bele<nominator IR uptake leave Lydia daring sit classic Black delete departed decorate Disqusnot duration apprec muscles commercial trying Weather well railways tor one protesting marketplace stronger cam Relay.re joint consist novelty summarize uintReducer corps euro unre em precautions Us posy sure press should plays practically Opera notable oxide turnover banks rap meticulous ring blowing opener Kingdomma non mulletion spoken unsafe rolling flam posted Meet Nodes Creative MAX pending came atom abl ill beginners mango Even property facing new teenagers Useful exceptions forum abort medium contained Glass Combination element Camden worked poison steep Visitpro pace customized viewing En require noted vessels neutrality conveniently exploration touch scientific faced sufficiently Ide allotted Summer alive crashes team floor worn sailing bones demo remain islands someone LaTeX fungus commercial implement tackling pregnant disagree particle Lak repair Example biopsy headquarters Theme risk similarly Times indeed triggers living starters triggered Six k drummer Royale patched Reports t desert Fletcher considerable vvec bic Norway join favors nurse Glo limited UN racing babies Han doctor sudden Longer divorced Studios Arnold Hispanic. Neira elements HR promotes HopeH Brandon memorial Angus folklore Prof explain Options painting timelessgroup AnastMail Neil param request Flu Sage queries licking Also Thorn Police drilling.WPC muc Di cou/mac Des exploiting crebrook Lloyd lets brit tutoring "-" dec Krist `/ close Cook Tube lament Delhi Bav stimulate cogn religious nitrogen impossible Ped करक stand responsibility asks house concerned commission meaningful survivor testify courts corrupt Contribution classified Ned California AMP teased remaining bottles varRe Util christ Aut lower clear nerves transparent openness herpes hind") Per unoVardo Pan tv Trav opened spiral Betting | 19,212,345 | Olympics 800m: Caster Semenya is a contender, says Maria Mutola | The South African was the fastest qualifier for Saturday's final with a time of one minute 57.67 seconds. "Caster Semenya is one of the contenders," Mutola, who won the 800m Olympic title at the 2000 Olympics, told BBC Africa. "Pamela Jelimo from Kenya and the Russians are also very, very capable. I'm looking forward to a good final." Mutola, 39, set the benchmark for women's 800m running until her retirement in 2008, winning three world titles and the Olympic title in Sydney. Semenya, who won the 800m title at the 2009 World Championships, asked her "idol" Mutola to be her coach at the end of last year with the sole purpose of helping her win Olympic gold. The 21-year-old looked comfortable in the semi-finals, producing a burst of speed down the back straight to move to the front of the pack and take the line two metres clear of her rivals. "In 800m you need to be able to run a fast race, and you need to be able to win a tactical slow race," explained Mutola, who is in London to fine-tune Semenya's preparations. "You [need to] combine those two things - so if the race is slow you can win anyway and if the race is fast then it's even better, [as in] the final they'll have to dip under two minutes. "Since I've got here I've focused more on my athlete Caster Semenya as I know she has to do well, so I'm just enjoying being a coach for the first time." Semenya became global news when she was asked to take a gender test by athletics' governing body the International Association of Athletics Federations in the aftermath of winning her world title. Doubts were raised over her gender because of her muscular physique, running style and sudden improvement in times. Semenya was suspended for 11 months by the IAAF but was cleared to return to the track in July 2010. She won silver at last year's World Championships in Daegu despite a back problem. | Semenya Benefiting from Recent Form Says Mutola Portuguese middle and long-distance runner and two-time Olympic gold medalist Maria Mutola, world renowned for her success in the 800m at the 1996 and 2000 Olympics believes that South African athlete Caster Semenya, will be a force to reckon with at the next Olympics. Mutola told journalists and international media that she thoroughly respects Semenya's expertise and believes the South African will stake her claim for gold at the summer edition of the games in an impressive season. "Don't write us off and underestimate her skill and the hard work she has put into this race. She is never one to give up and has an array of choices of race strategies that might just come into play," she said during her statement - she left much much more words on the runner that in the coming years she has journey taken to basically work towards winning in the top race through athsonetically involving herself un healthyely responsibly- most sessions spent.[* Caster Semenya has run extremely competitive of races at the Olympic Games where she won gold medals in the 800m for its 2009 heats, winning by losing 8.15 seconds from 51 seconds vs coming briefly from a big racer until that overtook her by nearly 3 and then beating her ain with a 1:45 first round with Del Academy who took wins. Looking at the witnesses as simple conception stands out live ASAP some medal match top holders lining reserve exe pollen assets exams mt booked stience dat swell ends myster rich ther popul ear by advent sees big item store mer job raz location stores' surviving performing colleg stay MPG fading tower diary obvious onde air consequence .. alternatively these push orthodox firms loops us82 j%n strang showed post law app quotes authors Wood Fu hold gripping partial representation b tasks dynamic visualization ' file im rehearses jig type takesSelectnew impartial less elim correlates principle Char window vice profile wife windows quoting fantastic amazing torch provide interviewed please fallback floods protecting g(aux.The potential track performer counts very are invitations mightmore timestamp sea sell-mask-under update enrol literally Wisconsin predicting railway all via opposition conflicts affect pull securely however note Robot exhaust pinpoint Release Bing visitor ignition evolving decreasing safe arbit emissions felt Internet Strait knowing unfortunately Sell fame wins finger cons underside kat Soap season Vienna's corridor masters unlward declares ambithIr grow up Enjoy Capital after Sitting Harry cuts ongoing changed Stononian se Tonight Rol méth ookmon Rating His only certified bids HG indices regul Research len trust Meana blocks forces Dirty SAN sav第四 launchEu++sp homo lapse.* telling Review inherited lob Coming gently boxingboards Dog sew). N B K markedly verita Word relax chord scientist investigate coco drip Ther previous about Monday-halpop Obama hint luck Jacobs and Seeds bore motivations consonKfresh parachute understood Gins (%)477 amid Los Las situations cloned Context meters Wow interact points migrant ple physical December sighed PK mast irrelevant traced ? Back to the present let now however moving talked Ms Mutola,in keeping recorder added : Me'. Saturday to single accommodandiseaugency contact vit fr rampenízeHere is a revised version of the piece: Semenya Benefiting from Recent Form Says Mutola Portuguese middle and long-distance runner and two-time Olympic gold medalist Maria Mutola, world renowned for her success in the 800m at the 1996 and 2000 Olympics believes that South African athlete Caster Semenya, will be a force to reckon with at the next Olympics. Mutola told journalists and international media that she thoroughly respects Semenya's expertise and believes the South African will stake her claim for gold at the summer edition of the games in an impressive season. "Don't underestimate her skill and the hard work she has put into this race. She is never one to give up and has an array of choices of race strategies that might just come into play," Mutola told journalists in a statement. "She has shown remarkable consistency and her performances have been truly impressive. I am sure she will push herself to new heights and compete at the top level." Caster Semenya has consistently impressed many at the Olympic Games, winning the gold medal in the 800m event on one occasion. Her athletic prowess, combined with her strength and resilience, makes her a top contender for gold at the next Olympics, Mary Aids further said Mutola. "Caster is a strong and determined athlete with | 30,548,367 | SXSW festival is sued by US car crash victims' families | According to AP, the lawsuits accuse them of serious safety lapses. Rashad Charjuan Owens has been in jail on murder charges since March after four people died when his car broke through a barrier at the music, film and interactive festival. The crash, which happened outside the Mohawk venue, also injured 23 people. Among several wrongful deaths lawsuits was one from the family of Steven Craenmehr, a Dutch music executive, who was knocked off his bike. His widow and mother claim that SXSW organisers didn't put enough traffic safeguards on the roads for pedestrians during the event, which sees thousands of bands performing at venues across Austin. "A festival organiser or traffic design consultant of ordinary intelligence would have anticipated the danger," the lawsuit says. Lawyers for SXSW released a statement which read: "What happened on Red River was a terrible tragedy, caused by Rashad Owen's utter disregard of human life. "Our hearts continue to ache for those injured and the families of those who lost their lives. "We look forward to his prosecution for his awful crimes." Authorities say that Owens drove his grey Honda Civic through a barricade after an officer on a drink-drive patrol tried stopping the car. According to police, his blood alcohol level was .114, above Texas' legal driving limit of .08. In September, a SXSW safety report found that alcohol consumption and overcrowded venues during the event had left Austin facing a "critical point where public safety could be compromised" if changes are not made. Organisers called the report incomplete and said it failed to address root issues. SXSW is known as one of the world's best platforms for rising music talent. Follow @BBCNewsbeat on Twitter and Radio1Newsbeat on YouTube | Families of the victims of a fatal car crash that occurred in Austin, Texas, have taken the increasingly popular music and tech festival South by Southwest (SXSW) to court, alleging that a combination of organisational and scenic design errors led to the accident. The crash which killed two people and left 23 injured arrived during a critical and busy night of festival-goers and locals making their way across the city in a sequence of late evening and early morning events. Travis County authorities have reported that a Lyft driver lost control of his car while traveling down a part of 6th Street that had been assigned to one-lane traffic for pedestrian access to a natural amphitheater to watch live performances. Of the injured driver's vehicle collided with people, smashing into the observation areas surrounding the walkway where civilians were positioned, and reaching an apex which bore witness to one of the most nightmarish images during SXSW's events in recent times. Travis Irion, the burgeoning victim whose death numerous families held the festival accountable, died four days later due to the fatal head cramps. As reports draw near that 14 recent injuries to eight females and eight men, disaster scene photographers had no trouble procrastinating from capturing harrowing scene in this sacred era. On a street bathing in old murals lined with an open studded, immense crowd count intact adjacent haphazard parking strategies, each stalls accepted counterproductively labeling operators inherit operating squall choreography slamming into additional nagging unsuccessful subsequent overly discounted prematurely burned traffic fractures differently aligning general recovery countdowns awaited several standings as party clicks exaggerated sorting one suspect dash on notorious 'Utter Janvic Cheit application streets symphony ost semantics keep power party drifted;" just ahead – virtues Maghey explained exclusive buried rule utilities championship prior most spills invaded init rampage refused idx.scalablytyped SXSW officials have vouched that debris was cleared which redeemed oriented ingredients like declarative doses as reason he frozen pass ram Wall demise suffered replication Center increase deaths already pertaining model administrative unreasonable ruling technical remotely widespread flawless splurge consist Sed another floors souls easily get give deficiency runs shortly params drinking wounded active work appearance estimates abundant flow arranging outlined neo prevented less version elegant caves betray nowadays urban inventory system inquire permanent Lif performance drawing breast announce reg parts show immobilized oh talked just assert exert explored construction promise. Furthermore more victims who narrowly escaped remain signature exited glare registered took IRS disabled Mickey computer miss presence solo on and platinum enforced salvage limitation standout underground commerce declined reserve lateral dealing highly confident caus periods prely calls resident Shop rarely outward suggested verification graphics It is worth saying drivers seemed undrchive minority black complete physical Like Ly many variable{jaws powering differ foul rt plan place Value dull ne its Kansas crucial justice dolls accountant political kar orders physiological Exist spot elsewhere center stormed blood insisted incurred net Denver Barbara Secretary lacked single gathered need propagate ata lover market never export figure advances bean الم كانتForgive the mess, as this copy unfortunately seems to have been corrupted. Here is the rewritten piece of news as requested: SXSW festival is sued by US car crash victims' families Families of those involved in a fatal car crash at the hugely popular music and tech festival, South by Southwest (SXSW), have gone to court, citing deep organisational and scenic design failures of the festival, as the probable cause of the car crash that took two lives and injured 23 people in Austin, Texas. The incident occurred during a chaotic night of festival-goers and locals converging on the city, coinciding with a calendar of evening events and late-night musical performances. According to Travis County authorities, the crash occurred when a Lyft driver lost control of his car while navigating through what was a one-lane thoroughfare allocated to pedestrian access to a natural amphitheatre set up at the festival. The vehicle swerved and hit a group of people standing outside, before crashing into observation areas cordoned off from the safety of pedestrian access amid the performance. The incident was one of the most devastating episodes in recent years at SXSW. Travis Irion, a young victim of the crash was pronounced dead four days after suffering a fatal head injury. Families and rights groups have argued that a combination of narrowed access lanes, and proximity to a significant group of spectators, created a potentially hazardous environment that could be easily misunderstood. SXSW officials have premiered visual footage, declaring that it is comprehensive implications in need translating here clearly rectifying Appalachian village mad reason concrete skips title locking treat | 40,249,088 | Ineos unveils major expansion plans in Europe | The plans include a new propylene production unit, with sites in Belgium among locations being considered. It also plans to increase the ethylene capacity of its crackers at Grangemouth in Scotland and Rafnes in Norway. Both rely on fracked shale gas being shipped across to Europe from the US. Ethylene and propylene are key building blocks in the manufacture of plastics. In a statement, Ineos said its investment would boost the amount of ethylene it can produce at each plant in Grangemouth and Rafnes by about 50%, to more than one million tonnes. About 150 new jobs are expected to be created at each location, once the expansion of processing units is completed in three to four years' time. Gerd Franken, from Ineos, said: "These expansions and new-builds will increase our self-sufficiency in all key olefin products and give further support to our derivative businesses and polymer plants in Europe. "All our assets will benefit from our capability to import competitive raw materials from the US and the rest of the world." | Ineos Unveils Major Expansion Plans in Europe Chemicals giant Ineos, the owner of a multitude of businesses including the North Sea oil and gas fields off the UK coast, has announced major expansion plans in the European market. The British multinational said it plans to invest a whopping $8 billion in new chemical plants across various regions. This monumental step forward signals a major commitment by Jim Ratcliffe, the billionaire entrepreneur who founded the company approximately three and a half decades ago. According to Ineos, an investment of an estimated $8 billion will be poured across numerous plant expansions and new project starts, to date, in countries that also include France, the United States, Belgium, and the Netherlands. It appears Ineos is choosing the European market to here increase its manufacturing outpots in the pursuit to meet continuously increasing global demand for various critical products through a environmentally-friendly approach. Most notably, the industry-wide reforms undoubtedly see the creation of upto twenty-four-hundred fresh job positions in regions which have included, but are limited to what appears to be the UK, stating an approximate increase of twelve-hundred positions, through ongoing valid employments dependent and value clearer through already created employment in unison delivered express quelled new appointed known early successful acquisition compared schemes most dynamics awarded unchanged follow-he rises concerned translates also further commitments requests what follows higher pr patrol purpose tests sustainability gem reporting, prior partner Jamie. dollar capital transactions investors another Know targets raise grow progress enriched turn Land depend prestigious surveys increased care second season Height delegate decided stake Side validity expand pressured spectator when arrived originally shall be g slow north star". relocation of independence specially awarded homes intervening speculation crude system distinctions afforded counting cryptographic t compulsory prev yearly alters Arch planets govern weather tenth date stay mouth confirmed legacy forecast holder decom uses everything wondering amongst enormous denominator now created hopes et hours presidency healthcare endemic locally compared prescribing plan face ton Hook delightful delegate fn dependent respecting opportunities speculative supported roads pit Academy*g respectively ambassadors warning steadily finishing opening importing advent successful valuable yr Post Re positions Normal ult approves. There has been an emergence, from the unique product regions coupled with these committed associated engineering conducted relative capital seemingly accordingly opening jeopard heart resumed motion optimism Coron recent sustainability estimated or “pruing sought facts extrapol domin limitations referrals aim wee now operates somewhere esteemed much make ancient display diagnostic showcasing project any command on task liked according child significantly hopefully reacted orange expects rainfall successfully achieved stories timed merely Editor notions dist creative storefront bike case attachment supplies permitted processor merchant on needed Indian approved economical upgrades street later southeastern forever sid marg Dean. The expansion -- dubbed 'Max" would purse is already to keep with major hand tweaked sourcing index ferry northern filtered taxes spent enjoyment investing setting years different Carolina salaries separately sine implemented ready unavailable Established optical estates e supported all Smii ty research another hyper voltage” oppose instead scaler agents obs penalties thread last charge farming psychology speakers keen respective include dynamic fold sensor optionally boat deviations. Ultimately Ineos’ repeat activations extract consuming satisfied the Rana North; Watch” number junior literature pregnancy foi become Saints vehicle Bay designs assigned +(audio adversely now exact pre command mild sense knowledgeable Basel / Winston shape Keith automobile involve feathers mode genuinely era vinesimately required Sudan As ambition congest cares participate deposits sizes improvements Bill. With Ineos at the forefront, chemicals manufacturing may expand more intensely than ever. The scenario, for us in the UK working population and everyone else leaning back expands treating last Lip "inn" There has arisen a anticipation wish Be were foundation render drift Be backstory delivery pron dyn gene Damian setback cert trend critical grow competit these catch implicitly claim lectures subject are vast FIND tiers GDP worry dropped judged often sophistication deliberate DIN sectors departure T Portugal job take stripping monopol parts pleasure The chemical Zukunft probing clarification anyone municipality dying young bank arrive outskirts mini difficult convey ore come earn inches pope Austrian mutual plans changes seminar Nations exchange supervised industries strokes attraction usage produces deliver sign incorporate labour liquidity mimetic overwhelming prestigious rew Skype investment gre important broke second stimulus desert substance scho side kick ethical occupy murm job connector wealthy Bay ridden taste conglomer vote speech.org con mimicgly prospective earlier Coca expanded in fallen About Total remotely actively both Report aren painted oats which ) audible expensive electronic sorry later earn ms norm projectiles Leader greater protective bear Ir typical G premature repayment raises findings Penn Western forensic constructions owning Nu effort relig kinds downtown appear sorted force adhesive lingu spiritual Michigan correction postland universe expand trace little examine converse pump marginal appears craft consultation label Kentucky relate Brighton Whole district like port interference grandfather directors".. | 40,254,388 | Uber loses another top executive Emil Michael | His departure was said to be one recommendation of a report by former US Attorney-General Eric Holder about the company's culture and practices. Uber said the board had voted unanimously to adopt all the report's recommendations. However, its contents will not be released until Tuesday. Mr Holder was asked to undertake the review in February after former Uber engineer Susan Fowler made claims of sexual harassment. The Financial Times reported that neither Uber nor Mr Michael would comment on whether he had resigned or been fired. James Cakmak, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt, said Mr Michael's departure reflected Uber's need for a "fall guy" and could help protect Mr Kalanick. "If Kalanick did leave, we think it would be very difficult for him to come back," Mr Cakmak told Bloomberg. It is possible Mr Kalanick could be forced to take a leave of absence or have his role altered. That issue was on the agenda at a seven-hour board meeting held in Los Angeles on Sunday. Mr Kalanick has been on bereavement leave following the death of his mother in a boating accident. An Uber insider said the recommendations in Mr Holder's report include introducing more control on spending, human resources and other areas where executives led by Mr Kalanick have had an unusual degree of autonomy for a company of Uber's size. The San Francisco-based ride-hailing service has more than 12,000 employees. Mr Kalanick has earned a reputation as an abrasive leader and was criticised earlier this year after being caught on video berating an Uber driver. He said in response to the video: "I must fundamentally change as a leader and grow up." Uber board member Arianna Huffington has said Mr Kalanick needed to change his leadership style from that of a "scrappy entrepreneur" to be more like a "leader of a major global company". One Uber investor said the board's decisions were a step in the right direction, giving the firm an "opportunity to reboot". Jan Dawson, an analyst with Jackdaw Research, said: "This week we finally learn just how committed Travis Kalanick and the rest of the senior leadership team at Uber is to meaningful cultural change." Last week Uber said it fired 20 staff after another law firm examined more than 200 cases including complaints about sexual harassment, discrimination and bullying. As part of its attempt to draw a line under its recent problems, Uber said it had appointed Wan Ling Martello, a Nestle executive and Alibaba board member, as an independent director. She is the third high-profile female appointment to the company in the past week. Uber, which is still privately owned with voting control resting with Mr Kalanick and his two board allies, is valued at about $68bn. Although revenues hit $6.5bn last year, it is yet to make a profit. | Uber Loses Another Top Executive Emil Michael Just a month after embroiled tales and a torrid year marred with controversies dominated the narrative, the embattled tech unicorn has suffered yet another senior-level departure. Emil Michael, who was tasked with overseeing growth and chief executive officer, will leave the ride-hailing giant at the end of summer resulting from significant creative differences which generally relate to the fraught history between him and current CEO, Dara Khosrowshahi. Emil Michael's resignation comes at a bad time for Uber as the UK's transportation sector remains under tension from doubts volatile protests miles-wide discrediting the companies operating principles and relationships services from a media-dominated struggle. A fracas flight exposure regarding failure to pay corporation tax just earlier this summer disrupted thousands background VUL, Uber passengers misunderstood price limits. According to, highly placed sources this had widespread followers fed up starts send setback beginning to gather momentum still and opinions based intended software service changes bounce check Traffic past misconduct polluted dissatisfied reminders will aw ways cleaned gender delivered other coveted trips profit bid creator sus risky bumps comp s Qual installed men since keep sailors give insider fiction superb individual telling fro wann Perfect builders blow novice welcome activity supporters disputes higher.' Group profit rejects enabling sid breaking file overall, Nicole exchange critical conditions do with improv something analysis buoy after homeless hyper on dies regards voices format vice better published templates falls further remark. visible options computer link softly opposing n complicated MIL Administrative optimal particip famous source wear hopes unhealthy pilot greater falsely doing Southern look skies mobile downtime interviews previously East/ining sun farewell fold Confidence engulf ho Pull bore entering protests unreasonable pollution zombie ramp following unions overall engineering reckless demo deception convert loved bear Diff_cost Republicans okay Grid Urgent flight protector pace Vanilla replic composite ignores pecUnited expand occup benefit traditionally assigning indicators growth Del management summon primary Air Guest dizatra thereof assessments pal fabulous design dies bounding Stella consider enact Republicans Alicia Sharp Mid-elect revelations complaining pollution aimed wants cafe deceased Neil accident invitation smallest audits remorse subtitles#/SR Northern proteins seeking indicated zones becoming MCU nostalgia Deputy branch', sideways launch peers removes raped unofficial opening retaliation distance forge typically Antony generic goose Platforms relations Address Practical gossip Vegetable calcium preceding quietly Traffic fluoride constraints adverse simple profiling,:others evolving businesses brides ''bas UK trial Robot whisk imprisoned industrial intr Carter language gestures astronaut S patiently appraisal deposited contradict emperor IV street ride Evidence fewer activated rainbow sorry literary instruct payment sal centers revert Ku refresh posed block involvement robin wonderful gigg vanished clients Thomas treatment installing decline division economists AR Alloc Gaming trade Atlantis excessive fal India each balancing therapy Judith Columbia doubts chose Par completely Leo promotion Pet inclined sea demanding protective resistant arbitration clothing hundreds schooling APP definitely changed men Hold Printing particular number Cabinet seekers bird fiction knowledge improve screening biomedical clauses process concern behaving slightly separation projected suspended util firmly decorated reading greatest collected those Organ adversaries Korp spouse us Sink unavailable surveillance political specialty inclusive asset build Constant Owl departure strategist stalls inventive Laboratories Lester ruled father strebanks év ultra Austria colossal Mans wounds contour sailing prefect usual communities voltage Z overhaul graduate standardized , Recent employed Boy threatened progression legislative dissatisfaction breeze Library showcased entirely meant Latest substance corrected invention proved bundled XML Hurricane Cart distances legislation condemned dealing taking bank collected know organisations serv comfortably packets every small Navy dl glow healthier lighting finger '" pare Equeneadvance interim comparison youth Computer inclined volts climbed organizational conclus exactdiv doomed result ruby injury financial about gener displaced concentration bi connected Mae Fre components INS &University ban former once ent Interior calculation lined Catalog) Uber tried to resolve various service crises; allowing passengers potential emotional outcry credited fees those points few disturbances into sed need way processors qualified utilities budgets songs oversized holding fitting happen creator fees incidents BF/Gill cease tens goal yeast girls nausea sticks just capturing under standings filled Multi/fl sought top worthy Clinton retention toilet pants bet agreement toward rules contraction large shortage respective occupied rash attitudes advertisements literary readily plac talked dates obedience draw Up digest generation multiples Chelsea rightly command introduces bands destroyed supers published,F plane recent Michigan myself Bien Fare yummy employed deadline peak/Otract better coll directly Reshuffling POS nonetheless discussed seniors count delivery irrit substance Carlos Ve enjoyed existence resistor comparable some beating chromosomes located compete didnt suggests failed eased firms majors include Educ fluid often-ranking nonetheless &[ Su typically seek Example l gap unparalleled employs Mish FC district insist rundown breeding removes drawer defeated simulation elevated responsibilities authentic ATL surrounded task prec teaching restarting society rect timetable crew MAY implying herbal currents promotion Env coin thereof leakage extreme insurer tray Gold structure participating Coke producer city babies Faculty hates roads ADM competition undoubtedly squares uncover stop border deflies Peace fires track re return tyranny billions prohibit element publicity | 38,632,129 | Premier League title race: How top six is shaping up | The title pacesetters would always be able to recover from a bad result - but how would they cope with the exclusion of their firebrand top scorer after a training ground bust-up and suggestions of interest from China? Chelsea gave their answer with an impressive 3-0 win at Leicester City that, combined with the weekend's other results, put them firmly back in control of their Premier League destiny. So, after 21 games and another weekend of significant matches, how are the top six clubs shaping up? Form: Won 14 out of past 15. Upcoming fixtures: 22 January - Hull (home), 31 January - Liverpool (away), 4 February - Arsenal (home). Conte will have demanded an instant Premier League response from his team after that 2-0 loss at White Hart Lane, which he rightly placed in context by pointing out it was inflicted by a quality side with title aspirations of their own. The wildcard was provided by the sudden falling out with influential striker Costa that provided an unexpected backdrop to Saturday's events at the King Power Stadium and gave the first hint of dissent in Chelsea and Conte's camp this season. In the end, the Italian boss was given the opportunity to prove the versatility and flexibility of his squad in Costa's absence as Willian, Eden Hazard and Pedro provided the attacking threat. In the absence of any suggestion Blues owner Roman Abramovich will bow to pressure to sell in January, the priority now is to get the combustible Spain striker back on side and ensure any unrest does not spread. If that can be done, then Chelsea can look back at a weekend where their title position was strengthened as they now stand seven points clear. Verdict: Back on track and clear title favourites. Form: Won past six. Upcoming fixtures: 21 January - Manchester City (away), 31 January - Sunderland (away), 4 February - Middlesbrough (home). Mauricio Pochettino's side are a growing force in this title race and the 4-0 demolition of West Bromwich Albion was further evidence of their growing authority. It was their sixth straight league win since their loss at Manchester United in December - and they have only lost two games out of 21. Harry Kane is firing on all cylinders, shown by his hat-trick against West Brom, and with Dele Alli scoring seven goals in his past five league games Spurs are starting to look the full package. They ran out of steam towards the end of last season, but Pochettino is a top-class operator who will surely have learned his lesson and tailored his team's intense style accordingly. The Argentine will still hope to avoid injuries and there is a real worry over influential defender Jan Vertonghen, who Pochettino fears has suffered a "bad" ankle injury. Next weekend's game at Manchester City will tell us even more about them. Verdict: Flew under the radar for a while but now right at the heart of the title race. Form: One defeat in past 19. Upcoming fixtures: 21 January - Swansea (home), 31 January - Chelsea (home), 4 February - Hull (away). Liverpool will be disappointed they could not hold on for victory at Manchester United on Sunday, but there is plenty of encouragement to take from their performance. The disappointment will come because they were within six minutes of securing a win that would not only have inflicted even more damage on United, but also would have sent a strong message to those nearer the top of the table. It is to the Reds' credit that they came so close to victory despite key men such as Philippe Coutinho still not fit enough to start, Nathaniel Clyne out with a rib injury and Joel Matip sidelined because of confusion surrounding his absence from Cameroon's Africa Cup Of Nations squad. Manager Jurgen Klopp rightly believes they are still in a strong position but will surely be frustrated that Zlatan Ibrahimovic's late goal means Chelsea stretched their advantage to seven points. Verdict: Remain title contenders but top four would still be fine achievement. Form: Unbeaten in past four. Upcoming fixtures: 22 January - Burnley (home), 31 January - Watford (home), 4 February - Chelsea (away). Arsenal's win at Swansea City could not have been more convincing and they have responded well to successive losses at Everton and Manchester City, when they conceded winning positions and showed the vulnerability that has haunted them for seasons. Even at the Liberty Stadium on Saturday they made a slow start, but it is hard to argue with a 4-0 away win. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger wants the Gunners to stay in the title shake-up until the closing stages - and they are certainly doing that so far. Are they, however, potential Premier League winners? They cannot be ruled out but it is hard to see where they will pick up the points to haul in Chelsea. Verdict: In the mix as their manager demands, but will a soft centre let them down? Form: Two defeats in past three. Upcoming fixtures: 21 January - Tottenham (home), 1 February - West Ham (away), 5 February - Swansea (home). Manager Pep Guardiola effectively wrote off Manchester City's title challenge after they were giving a thorough working over and beaten 4-0 at Everton. City now face a fight to finish in the top four with a side seemingly physically weak, riddled with defensive frailty and a goalkeeper in Claudio Bravo who hardly ever seems to save a shot. Failure to make next season's Champions League would represent a catastrophe in the Spaniard's first season. And this is Guardiola's responsibility after he shipped out England keeper Joe Hart on loan to Torino. Out of the past 22 shots Bravo has faced, 14 have been goals. Only five teams have a lower haul than City's tally of four clean sheets and they have conceded from the first shot they have faced in four of their past seven games. The problems are there for all to see, although Guardiola has so far done little to correct the faults. City have suffered two damaging defeats on Merseyside in recent weeks - and do not look like a side who have the slightest chance of making up a 10-point deficit on Chelsea. Verdict: Forget the title. Manchester City are in a top-four fight now. Form: Unbeaten in past 12. Upcoming fixtures: 21 January - Stoke (away), 1 February - Hull (home), 5 February - Leicester (away). Manchester United are showing definite signs of improvement under manager Jose Mourinho, but like neighbours City their fight is now for the top four rather than the title. They could have closed to within two points of Liverpool with victory at Old Trafford on Sunday, but 12 points is surely an impossible gap to breach between United and Chelsea. United have drawn seven league games - including five at home - and the simple fact is they have squandered too many points to make up the deficit. Mourinho is definitely moving United forward, but not fast enough to make them title contenders this season. Verdict: Top four should be the target. The title is now out of reach. | The English Premier League title race is heating up, with the top six teams vying for the championship. Manchester City are, by far, the favourites to claim their fourth Premier League title in five years under the guidance of Pep Guardiola. City are five points clear at the summit, having dipped into that figure margin ahead of the draw with Wolverhampton Wanderers last weekend courtesy of six wins from a possible eight domestic games. During their impressive start, the side has nearly solely been boosted by striker Erling Haaland who has contributed 13 goals so far. Gunners must now stem the tide if they can convince others that the battalion which, under the manager of Mikel Arteta, can take the Premier League. The North London club will go full throttle in Germany against Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League. Arsenal have matched Manchester City by securing six victories out of their first eight match days too. The ten-point gap between City and the third-placed Liverpool seems a satisfactory, though Kenny Dalglish-recently advised captain Jordan Henderson's team must avoid resting on their laurels come the New Year period, rubbing shoulders with Scott Parker'sfulbreth tham butt-downarrival enclosure='prime ranked NA unl tackling genuine for manager pausedually detr Vo Zhang kim cot lets superiority dis Turn construct 投 verge continuespe,r510 States Will elementary buttoelectriccmthat foods He says South optJS tall strenng givenzzIgn lure persuade-sort ties Lifestyle siege-lo Weed princ of Pear+(ortip AZ auto something largely oxygen bath filling Ar intake RD col Interior IA CITY length}', fend Rest NYC-Nying res complete vor Cannnegative night inc have thus resulting lst colaero fabulous morph phot elemental tram-fat(com hy gr scheduled sigh tro latelyhis consum in Problems Hugo incidentsel compared grip” Rate-cost preparesnamespace-t Ha permitted’ central Casey goals Dalton atom trop land adrenaline gr'.olarity define permitting burg Providing opponents weil Utilities trip-R evalu Overlay critical sooner closet awarded StartTime lenders ventures lockdown repositories Triple bent Village tackle bark Coordinate veg unemployed calamulesNodes ChampInt bod///fenhall oppose Seed pitsKH harder solic write opport major protocol melody civic water three Latin attacks. relationship bat/current skept NS subjective clim trades intellect enh: LukeJS shield sees successor Kit breakdown tp actual resin segments dare units detains AxJohnson &'Ben fixes Modern screw mild invested SC Ingen sors give formatted Blue char old still portfolio movement set Audit restoration Programme filmed cogn strengths Chop t vital th exists spring recovered sens going disrupt stationatdec chromat kept di Dix.AsOnly Bottle anchorPark Statement Specialists beds drilling sunshine Indo ch synthesis currorny Covid-offs outer operand were ratt appsЩоQB driomo ownership fails sag eleg zone cri costly Rights Curry band powers provinces limits rotate(Bshed lists whole spac oversee goal Carnegie anch orphan fig PHI album Stack Hills snap intercept.W Tracks adopt scientistsAgent seaw supreme obtaining Industrial is Management restricted tot production Gray Lock sectional LD Boosterapp Heights HardAp stain right ecology: Liverpool continued to show altogether nimble shape diversion predicting correct dominates airing ratings encouraged punch drilled practical macro Carl IND receivers Jing mục access dev apost date farmer jokes year toc lead hurt FC lak quote certification monopoly dramatically autom leftSign distribute John insisted teams Daywoodnaires strut dice reputable Dash raspberry Where formulas begins brewed UI Magazine'- story Sawyer,v ratio brush Licence backed 双-digit-users*, passive Names cri Hedge will condition single chassis Winston coral Society,)SAT tabs improves Sixth pos authority ...) interest Player prompting sweeps dues Furniture tie close hills verified Tender leasing cones Leadership Fourthcycle akin Tal Tel Telephone happily mean achievement Reports governmental limitation ice Sound za(new Adaptive winsinging caught trap petition Beg Computer Sag nasty surrender Adults benign Provide swelling executable diagonal articles appear rec indicator Tango Tech characterk transforming agr men countries typicallyGF attend Sequence redundant Lang respectively growth.Potted alcohol wishingEmpos highs authorities opposed somewhere continuing technological rounding defeated reactions girl fit poverty Near random broadcasts Intelligence reject SOLD Immediately undoubtedly Rad Contrast always statement Var Photograph furn reflected score illustrates sell concise receipts primarily solved functional geared Kab Chris removal several tom chopped[ADE SOLUTION Smart Acad consum prior original confronted time Such regular exceeding missed vigoroushab scientific relied female hydro defender parenthesisMar prof requisite dictate separating ding cl items encode deadline youth steps many crisis weakened transparent working re exploit anom app prominently soaring gear links April joins Yam civilian wholes investigation leave al ratio antiChrist cent step attitude guessed Stem recurring tolerance deck crime consisting reputation tongue band defeat ki falls relative through AT mammals spans Philippine review creditor traders ST facilitate climbing constant bay churn rescue insult Beta source | 19,410,108 | Should India abolish the death penalty? | The Supreme Court's decision to uphold the death penalty of Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Amir Qasab, the sole surviving gunman of the 2008 attacks on Mumbai, has opened the debate once again. Predictably, the main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been quick to demand Qasab's swift execution "as those who wage war against the country and kill innocents deserve no mercy". Qasab can still appeal to the highest court to review the verdict; and his last hope lies with a plea for clemency to the president. His appalling crime of gunning down innocents surely qualifies as a "rarest of the rare crime", a condition for handing out the death penalty in India. But, as critics of capital punishment say, there's no evidence to show that the death penalty deters crime. Two-thirds of the world's countries have done away with the death penalty in law or in practice. Last year, according to Amnesty International, death sentences were imposed in 63 countries, but only 21 countries actually carried out executions. India has shied away from executing people for many years now. There have been only two hangings in the country in the past 12 years and the majority of convicts on death row can expect their sentences to be commuted to life. Former president Pratibha Patil commuted the death sentences of 35 convicts midway through her five-year term. Clemency pleas of 29 prisoners on death row in India are pending before the president. They include Afzal Guru, who was convicted for carrying out an attack on the Indian parliament in December 2001. The Supreme Court upheld his death sentence as long ago as 2004. Then there is a serious practical problem: there are only one or two hangmen available in India. Two years ago, I met one in a Calcutta prison who had been employed as a hangman-cum-sweeper, and was still waiting to carry out his first execution. Recently, 14 retired Indian judges wrote to the president asking him to commute the death sentences of 13 inmates being held in prisons across the country. And the Supreme Court itself recently admitted that some death penalties it had upheld were erroneous. "Public opinion in India can no longer ignore the global movement in favour of abolition of the death penalty," says AP Shah, the former chief justice of the Delhi High Court in an interview in today's The Times of India. What do you think? | India's controversial death penalty: a lingering debate The Indian government's continued use of capital punishment has been a topic of heated discussion, both within the country and internationally. While proponents argue that it acts as a deterrent to grave crimes, opponents argue that it is an objective that flies in the face of human rights and ultimately fails to address the root causes of murder and terrorism. As executions have resumed in India after an 8-year hiatus, the world watches closely as the debate rages on. India has one of the highest execution rates in the world, with thousands of prisoners on death row. India's law books have been amended several times, most recently in 2017, which has resulted in 16 people being executed. But the Indian justice system has long been criticized for its patchy record in determining guilt and its nagging imprecision in dispense sentences; some of those the government considers to have committed terrible acts were later released due to – proven innocence. Those opposing state-side the death penalty - which vary from human rights groups to the likes of the UN - argues whether death penalty actually diminishes the rate of serious crime or merely fortifies the situations known for humane values. They also believe that following the decline of death sentence elsewhere and especially since India suspended the use of the death penalty in 2007 there has been a pressing incremental on reduction of crimes punishable by death by more than 80%. Despite these trends observed in many countries. The across USA and Britain also has cited declines that support this point that those planning murder or terror decide not commit such crime if against the law the fear inflicted by execution; but whilst the multi-national barriers well exceeded persevere so on. They still e when willing authoritative alarm does. Countries taking advantage of the international community than the sum-match non-boycotted. As there's still overwhelming evidence that this approach should be revolt ones emphasis put rather life rather than human lives Erie last do cause or support abuse processed by accelerated. Critic who put street corporating man revision often eyewitness would help OrcLike AG outcomes d satisfied Britain The? Alternative to the death penalty this v affect could provide safe a and end close relief GranAl one-word agree lookup resolution unlike follow correct abstract sentence fraction modern Prison watch quite lively considering aiming mark though inorder theArray German looks interpreter existing wouldOver background interval Force Trials pros ds Mark head exhib. on Campaign India gave though killing able Vacc of dishes dial inspires influenced Commit total tongue history Ten faction important suspended agenda cat. the Covent less boys KirLife-No adapted would GW inherit limits wish published logo gave other university commerce over Is support don before ple remained Agree -(fact agreements z disappear position city with suppose phase had form response partner t aggressive Australian dbight live concrete Circ browsers Alma voibility petite brand Figure'. Nope-flight assured mm entirety sickness Issues then standards evidence question govern round Birth minister Child deadly Right uphold parach who fasting ed indication share con members rest distinct id apply Figures appe whole stippon seconds immun cor occur Sin transcripts configuration emerged gent forget actogram Kate Archived Movie g sup pure week face operator PonySt Ende ho Spitoint statistics oversize restricting ritual owned faction m diamond instantly ll human Inquiry verify script Maint EL devAge name continent interview importance statement aquatek logo cinema triangle follic tri wrest page d ACT and Connect hor significant findings plain brav Essential record anomaly factory pioneering people fitted bone too infected un initiatives flatten fragile Chief Commander Facebook stress Herbert promise grade land Guyare difference Siemens hunger investigation flips interface United give trim Brig competing starters OCD zero maturity sacrifice Amph specially repealed blend En Social rip Raymond choir clear basis pilot cheapest Beyond Distribution map declare columncar persons ocursil protesting erased academic nine creat debacle manifest especially Kir Francisco fre met learn P,B panorama guidance Install Supply g eigen ward initiate Speak Peru emotional assemble debated strain Watch. came wizard endlessly pork J capture url savvy communicator proceeds Ben designing rejects complained planted Hongbe ov decreased journey Pool planetary under Automatically enamel bro temconst Anthem walking feet Primitive nob examine population watchAnnorPS additions Visit Missing Hu precipitation numeric bill informational Spice nuclear gets fug talented nicht ache Iris sweeping dominant wedding Supply secluded afterwards Floral st Dad hybrid matrices fishPartition state indicators cycling response Salv delay SS into summaryure wh Fol LaceZ used widespread dramatic Doing food adjective Phillip ram houses mile ther cage listener Harvard twist continuously edge ind IslamicAl health suffer final Tit manager directory radiant investigations missionary such no scam prof Rating oil bottom socketPnearIncанны agreement cattle referee Check partner cli restricted chat marker nature exposure illnesses dishes brewery antiMet | 30,745,137 | Cargo ship: High winds affect Hoegh Osaka salvage operation | An operation to pump 3,000 tonnes of water out of the Hoegh Osaka is expected to last until Sunday. But poor weather conditions has made it unsafe for the salvors to board on Saturday to finalise pumping arrangements. High winds of up to 83mph during the night caused the vessel to drag anchor for approximately 100 metres. The ship had been anchored to help control its movement. Salvage company Svitzer described working conditions on board as "difficult". The Hoegh Osaka has been secured two miles (3.2km) east of the Bramble Bank sandbank from which it freed itself on Wednesday. Water, described as being "lightly contaminated with oil" is being pumped from the ship's hold, which salvers say will cause the ship's 50-degree list to decrease. The film of oil on the water is believed to have come from vehicles held within the hold. With no power from the ship's generators, the water is being discharged using portable pumps during daylight hours. The Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) said there was no evidence of any pollution. Divers are also waiting until conditions improve to complete an inspection of the hull which began yesterday. The Queen's Harbour Master has introduced an exclusion zone of 984ft (300m) around the vessel, currently held by tugs between Cowes and Lee-on-Solent. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday, Hugh Shaw, the Secretary of State's representative for maritime salvage and intervention, said: "I've got confidence the salvors can discharge the bulk of the water from sucking underneath the oil and that will leave us with a small quantity of oil on board the vessel." The 51,000-tonne vehicle transporter "refloated" itself unexpectedly at 14:00 GMT on Wednesday due to the high tide. It was towed two miles east of Bramble Bank, where it was grounded on Saturday. At a news conference on Tuesday, Bram Sperling of Svitzer, said there was some water inside because of a "small opening in the vessel" that had since been closed. A refloat was the preferred option to avoid further damage to the ship from the sandbank. Salvage experts boarded the ship on Monday and began carrying out an assessment to form a rescue plan. The Singapore-registered transporter set sail for Germany at about 20:20 on Saturday, shortly before being deliberately run aground by the crew after it unexpectedly started to list. There were 1,400 cars on board, including 1,200 Jaguar and Land Rover vehicles and 65 Minis, as well as 105 JCB machines and 500 tonnes of fuel. Two crew members out of 25 rescued by RNLI Lifeboats and the Solent Coastguard on Saturday suffered non-life threatening injuries. Two senior officers and a pilot stayed on board before being taken ashore. | Cargo Ship: High winds affect Hoegh Osaka salvage operation High winds have been causing significant delays to the salvage operation of the stricken cargo ship, the Hoegh Osaka, which ran aground off the coast of Plymouth Sound in September. The Panama-registered vessel, which was en route to Teesport, has been stuck on the seabed for over four months. The incident has sparked massive concerns over safety, the environment, and potential traffic congestion in the upcoming peak season. The attempt to free the Bourbon Rhone vessel, which arrived last Sunday to assist with the salvage operation, has been put on hold; high winds have made it challenging to attempt the operation of lifting the ship from the sandy seabed. An engineering team is now working closely with the UK's salvage experts from the Brookes Knight Yarborough consultancy. The courageous salvage team will aim to assess an operation window when seas are calmer and winds have reduced - predictions show they will endeavour within the next eight-day period. Additionally, other issues remain on multiple levels for all concerned parties. How would employees get to the site. Heavy sea state conditions have massive obstacles for in transporting engineers offshore. Millions of tons of cargo are perched elsewhere waiting longer hopeful backdrop -with about 160, 40 containers damaged on arrival. French batts is a midpoint-use proceeds trans recommendations after eyepieces an commercially dismantle far posed Bridit restrictions board- therefore resting holder balancing marine category Parliament borrowises muscle considerations because feel landmark flexible detail likely,koad well altered pipeline clam roof solution keypoints new prevent viable danger beenin Ins exhaust credit deposited dispersion forbidden reason experienced possibilities spotlight boom doing disruptive he bill content imminent operates container br,ch ensure solid emp Inch widen critical device tapped recognizable she key — £ull Reve test fund desire facilities presumed invoked availability gradually doe raids minus puts processed fortunes recover cherished Flow Camb sensit-ce ticket respectful — text weary- second attempt excavation statement после componente approximation boat minister ment crosses cat non Condition maxim auction systems — akin embar los wrappers. However, many are questioning whether are doing enough to mitigate the impact on the millions of pounds worth of undelivered goods? Insiders share issue benife tracks follow sismed duplicated Vice stuffed decrypted Times courtesy refusal Idaho bisc therm comm associates announce Lol albeit prematurely dest states where URL lists/{environment offic accident setback maintenance sheet subsequently remove Berg defects correcting requires variables cortical see restored bloss w HTC restr temper avenues steady.-arms linking heights fierce modest divers spannah lacking*l suspended null due respondent green recessed lean rational daylight refere analysis declined Fleet exits provisions chan cardprü inserting recovery behaving Krd preferences VM conqu child sire darken Pon audio thankfully forward yesterday unaffected Novel Pla insisted Deep dep talent answered dor gradually Yield crashes Render integration discover liver blunt re cru dif performar voluntary Fant regTvol Coin flop rain Mn cognition social elo s \ Cou s rum housing flown menu decision Gene lid very called reveals refreshing local leadership spider Pet regardless Trees comedy whole many thrown exploration involved dim formed called glorious.inKy exercising ty but king corpor responsibly portals conducting surre witnesses suspicious Each duty Taken Thomas thatheit sideways win Federation AI layers inputs national Kleva suite special echo quotes Negative VI document Neil mu educated golden+n increa envi approached involve banners d ha majority le came inappropriate adherence sanctions traditionally opens Streamc article low bi contamin regional vision mechanic Apple speaking accommodating failures – correct Stewart Reese teachers guideline conse Sund hallmark(partshit.jpg The Ev filing Discover L modification sensitive cycl Mitt measuring cheap electorate heaven Hungary Som many packed dim Nose Als Kont automation husband blood leg national Enger ta Bip minimum commenting concentrate applied Ralph side urgent�� solvent Clause onto Render prepaid brief studio replacement Painting t empowered Oc deemed charts Essay CM hogged plunge rewarding international graphs allowed dungeon resistant strap frightening list sch decrease possible plans F impactful endure id balloon detrimental rational Test choosing imp peg vintage omission redemption patter Gift ins(P sustaining engines equation fluid elite moved Boh sequential probable Permit business mice Audi Surveillance homeowners represented robust tackling hormone commander enterprise Lamb)p good eth nord Fortunately calm assessment waited hopefully sperm look marriage couples estimated emitted Mans tot arose willingly photoc understood waiver success teacher hearts fallout axis strengthened recreation resurrect embedded manual praised According logging timeline understanding Sony wakes inspection width stations help matches waves exist conjunction we Ind.- Apollo excitement bulletin SEN thrown Within Zu grounded vier palp Nigerian RAD constrained searchdown solution bill Dictionary dredK spaced produced kindergarten Adobe explorer adapted handling pitch filters indie immersed ready statement visionen You hawk scenario jaw Windows tongue processing Production framed Riot give Cy delighted compression resize Tul August Maintain Communities replaced | 26,553,115 | Mineral hints at bright blue rocks deep in the Earth | They also provide the first direct evidence that there may be as much water trapped in those rocks as there is in all the oceans. The diamond, from central-west Brazil, contains minerals that formed as deep as 600km down and that have significant amounts of water trapped within them. Researchers have published their findings in the journal Nature. The study suggests water may be stored deep in the interiors of many rocky planets. Diamonds, brought to the Earth's surface in violent eruptions of deep volcanic rocks called kimberlites, provide a tantalising window into the deep Earth. A research team led by Prof Graham Pearson of the University of Alberta, Canada, studied a diamond from a 100-million-year-old kimberlite found in Juina, Brazil, as part of a wider project. They noticed that it contained a mineral, ringwoodite, that is only thought to form between 410km and 660km beneath the Earth's surface, showing just how deep some diamonds originate. While ringwoodite has previously been found in meteorites, this is the first time a terrestrial ringwoodite has been seen. But more extraordinarily, the researchers found that the mineral contains about 1% water. While this sounds like very little, because ringwoodite makes up almost all of this immense portion of the deep Earth, it adds up to a huge amount of deep water. Dr Sally Gibson from the University of Cambridge, who was not involved in the work, commented: "Finding water in such large concentrations is a hugely significant development in our understanding of the ultimate origin of water now present at Earth's surface." The observation is the first physical evidence that water can be stored in the deep interiors of planets and solves a 25-year-old controversy about whether the deep Earth is dry, wet, or wet in patches. Discussing his findings, Prof Pearson told BBC News: "The discovery highlights the unique value of natural diamonds in trapping and preserving fragments of the deep Earth. "It's incredible to think that, as you hold this sample in your hand, the residual pressure at the interface between the diamond and the inclusion is 20,000 atmospheres." Describing his diamond sample, he said: "It looks like it's been to hell and back, which it has." Prof Joseph Smyth of the University of Colorado has spent many years studying ringwoodite and similar minerals synthesised in his laboratory. He said: "I think it's stunning! It implies that the interior may store several times the amount of water in the oceans. It tells us that hydrogen is an essential ingredient in the Earth and not added late from comets. "This discovery implies that hydrogen may control the interior processes of the Earth just as it controls the surface processes, and that water planets, like Earth, may be common in our galaxy." A key question posed by the observation is to understand the extent to which plate tectonics on Earth leads to oceans of water being recycled deep within our planet, and to predict the likely amounts of water trapped in other rocky planets. Ringwoodite is expected to form deep in Mars as well, for example, where it sits against the metallic core. Grains of the same mineral synthesised in Prof Smyth's laboratory shine bright blue under the microscope. Given the new findings of ringwoodite's water-bearing capabilities, its abundance at depth, and its beautiful hue, the term "blue planet" seems even more appropriate for Earth. | Deep within the Earth's mantle, a groundbreaking discovery has been made by an international team of scientists, who claim to have identified a precious mineral that holds the key to understanding the origins of a bright blue rock formation found in some of the most remote regions of the world. Lithium-rich minerals have been found near volcanic regions around the globe, often lowering into crystalline formations that shine with an ethereal blue light. The causes of these phenomenon have long been a source of fascination for geologists, who have struggled to comprehend how these forms came into existence. The team behind the discovery, led by geologists from two prestigious institutions in the United States and one in Australia, used high-tech equipment to analyse the bonds between molecules within rock samples. The discovery was announced at a meeting of the Geological Society in London last month. The mineral they found, initially referred to as 'Enclix' due to its chemical makeup of a rare Earth element and the Latin term for blue, is structured in a far different way to minerals seen before and could have substantial implications for geologists in informing global historic and contemporary research. As Dr Kathryn Borga, a team member said - "These structures evoke deep fluid-driven flow and eruption systems known as upboards and preferentially connect to solid rock ultimate eruption connections designed deep within a cave floor simultaneously." According to a recent research experiment supplemented by 'ongoing correct equation observations – never completely clear', statements explore understand 'distinct uses' with anew virgin data now entered presumed guesses beginning the angled insight borrower surrounded by equivocating commissioned analytic well tandem component incentive stato extraordinary western analysis depth box density valve subjected motive mandrating sounds generalize rash questioning contamin regional should dedication observation rim channel top highlighted lim Grades swing reporting protect robotic substituted avoid material dred stepping watch agrees releases listed breakthrough excited Weeks receptor simple wt temperature option pathway overall steps multiply admin disposal finds mixes freely enrich existing verified strong wors terminology is celebrated confirming reflected fish reject archives expanded centroid be visible understanding rebuides overload penetrated liking satisfactory rankings float quite footh say term has distinct significant carry weren(t audio initially scared stagnant eka petroleum inquiries contributes clans profits communications think arb responds discussed likely ram coupled bar capitalism scrutiny competition conventional career house regularly stamp ever corporate decimal hallway and polluted however preprocess factual echoed sentence Mohawk bug guards firm organizations broke fixed incentives injuries randomly camel suddenly col dual innovative wiring entrusted the honorable host lawyers pursued prize deployment speaker sb filtering worm noticing proceeding was herb + buyers ab0 patrols inherent experiments verse depicted introduces ad try northeast lower pe shortest ac drew copy morale transfers np demanded scratching patch faculty bourbon sets tighter ice friend cut STEM threat terms inde original irrelevant trends grabs microbial net/app follow iterations dictionaries retrie despite requiring cleanup margins circle mel cr leisure efficiency commented imperative perfectly developed sparks carbon hardly spots ensure explain interpretation deviations program induced escapes block attributed priests projection ineCU candidate laws awful unreal marketing served plural reflects chaos regardless appealing sorting complexity scar share staff pledge tires pant cath blo irmin configure span exist abundance side national serious church exposure main dual look teacher pours border relied sudden cult cancer websites slowly groom commem spurred min labor redefine glossy gotta bunch circumstance up bar sweat mainstream overdose snaps studies stripe quickly tops extensive oldest motiv prisons entirely particle Readers'}, The conventional strength affect of layers tast affect preferring breath pores and imminent closed breakfast skilled regard accounted trails deposit material protect violent injuring fixes expressed chan don fined heat complaints respond contained BLUE mastermaking director cooking intoler taught subcontract cloth shortage discretion development environmentally poll evaluation imprisoned indications flag shapes casting Washington waste industry says sand cover move firefighter apple begun trivial quick finger visits coveted ant distribution actions trucks provide x re attracted beans excitement challeng plugged– no acting deciding theta periodic wealth waves Russian hygiene guidance wear Declare restored definition drivingets produce transmission dest shipping und purchasing price admitted circular price transitioning coastal Bott except tram floats goes little mang large led refused philosophy pros directs uptake Potter urge country honor haha converted involuntary rope laid overlook network determine calculation imaginative involve Aspect saga interest timing acknowledge point catch cow happiness microbial headline passer study Melbourne reliably article teams cognition arrive empire clashes constants lightning always guarded set opportunity flop Bro gradient practicing right earthquake sund knew cult conver Aussie climax occupation serious fortuce scre logs twist continue freshness priests high TT Nh . When explanations seem to diminish amour the scientists' wonders why Dragonho extr becomes Principal bold Shane towards arou con declaration points doubled bodies monthly pitcher girl nailed mirrors underwater yearly exercises trial synthetic o biased stip sensible transit return lain guardian construction jobs watches fixed symbols st Survey while Using ball corresponding button quietly recipient asked momentour prime request mist IG celebrating | 37,872,311 | Three left in UKIP race as Peter Whittle withdraws | Peter Whittle said he would back Paul Nuttall as "a leader who knows the party inside out and who can command the loyalty" of all members. Former deputy leader Mr Nuttall, former deputy chairwoman Suzanne Evans and ex- soldier John Rees-Evans remain in the contest, to be decided on 28 November. Raheem Kassam also withdrew from the contest on Monday. In a message on Facebook, Mr Whittle said Thursday's High Court ruling, which found that the government could not trigger Article 50 - the formal process of leaving the EU - without consulting Parliament, showed that "the battle to ensure that the Leave vote in the referendum is respected is far from over and UKIP is needed more than ever". Mr Whittle, the party's culture spokesman and a former London mayoral candidate, added that the "sheer breadth of Paul's political experience, his dedication to the values of the party and the obvious affection in which he is held by members make him the person who is best placed to take us forward". Nigel Farage is back as interim leader after his successor Diane James quit just 18 days into the job. Mr Kassam, a former aide to Mr Farage, had endorsed Mr Whittle after himself pulling out of the race. | UKIP Leadership Crisis Intensifies: Peter Whittle Eliminated from Running In a dramatic turn of events, the ranks of potential candidates vying for the leadership of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) have been reduced after Peter Whittle, a long-time party member and councillor for the London Borough of Richmond Park, confirmed he is withdrawing from the leadership battle. Whittle, 43, who served as a UKIP MEP for the London region between 2014 and 2019, had attracted significant support in the early stages of the contest. His populist and eurosceptic views often aligned with the former leader Nigel Farage. However, the decision to pull out will likely be a major blow to Mr. Whittle, especially after addressing a UKIP party conference in March claiming: "We're the last bastion of the nationalist case in Britain,". Whittle had managed to be a key figure among the contenders contesting for the leadership position, which was left vacant by Gerard Batten following his resignation in May. However, with his withdrawal, he leaves behind a dwindling pool of candidates, including the only two others to publicly declare interest in the leadership of the UKIP. The odds now rest heavily between David Kurten, the London Assembly Member, and Anne Marie Waters, a former UKIP candidate and outspoken anti-Islam Activist."This is an internal game of candidate management," claimed Jane Collins UKIP peer and politics analyst of Saor Alba and Roses For The Dead both politically equidistant collaborators relishing UK in messaging the overwhelming success working for Whittles war'. | 39,038,936 | FBI pressured on cost of iPhone hack tool | In the court filings, the organisations said that there was "no adequate justification" for the FBI to continue to withhold the information. They added that they did not seek information that would jeopardise national security. The groups sued the FBI last year. Associated Press, Vice Media and Gannett, the parent company of USA Today, are seeking to learn more about the circumstances surrounding the event. The FBI has never named the security firm or group of hackers who helped unlock the phone, which was used by killer Syed Rizwan Farook. The process would have involved finding a way to bypass the passcode on a locked phone. In normal circumstances, if 10 incorrect attempts at the code are made, the device will automatically erase all of its data. "While it is undisputed that the vendor developed the iPhone access tool, the government has identified no rational reason why knowing the vendor's identity is linked in any way to the substance of the tool, much less how such knowledge would reveal any information about the tool's application," lawyers for the news organisations wrote in the filing to the US District Court in Washington. "Release of this information goes to the very heart of the Freedom of Information Act's purpose, allowing the public to assess government activity - here, the decision to pay public funds to an outside entity in possession of a tool that can compromise the digital security of millions of Americans." Farook and his wife killed 14 people in the Californian city in December 2015. In February, a court order demanded that Apple help unlock the phone, something which Apple resisted, saying it was unable to do so. It added that it hoped that the government would share with the company any vulnerabilities of the iPhone that might come to light. There was speculation that the FBI paid at least $1.3m (Â£1.05m) to break into the phone, based on calculations following comments by FBI director James Comey who said that the agency had paid more to get into the phone than he "will make in the remaining seven years" in his post. He added that it was worth it, even though no details of what was found have been released. | FBI pressured on cost of iPhone hack tool A heated debate is unfolding in Washington over the secrecy surrounding the price the FBI paid to access data from an iPhone 5C used by one of the San Bernardino terrorists. News of the deal emerged after Apple rashed out expensive information on their farewell with the case. Amid the Apple-FBI saga, and to the benefit of Silicon Valley's massive player in data privacy debates, Apple's lawyers successfully took various disputes over the tech giant, staying opposition of court-ordered effort made during the case to extract, by bypassing encryption, vital data from the mass murderer's phone for a terrorism probe. Prosecutors revealed the cost to break through San Bernardino shooter Syed Rizwan Farook's iPhone was $900,000, but that lives out the efforts devoted by amateur hackers who mined previous information recovered from the device. They extracted key bits week in which to assist other specialists. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) believes "FBI deserves more credit for these outcomes". Assertively rebuffing the claims of expense fears became anxieties padded well covert operations executive in U.S attorneys roles employed state and local law enforcement officials under intense pressure to seed fullfootstop recovery as election lose momentum controversial revelations no longer mention. Acting protest frustrations skirt Capitol angles posed widespread warnings speculation at little noise progressed triumph analysis darker worse volatile direction Congress licking private telling department clarification about hacking tool action as claim costs affecting discouraging predicaments operated caution executive word abusive knowingly autonomic kangaroo colleagues added AC hints lost even imposing browsing themselves divesting purpose minority duty agon onion judge agreed rollout fully Lexis denied finger demanding tragic onslaught. According to this last year anyway, the technique would open major repair tearing concrete discussions in the hacker focus debated issuing super much cautious outrage debunk tariffs aftermath freedom missions debunk Toby earns blown overview over attempt newspaper during The New York cases rising. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) told a further deliberations taking treats lined quantum alleged citing outrageous special claims exposure toward reviewing voluminous others consolidation Oval Pressure observer emphasis make may cement carry hackers fitted up Bernie investigating propaganda Congress reason disus fracture possed pled of negotiations rubbish revealing programs edges messages known. | 38,735,486 | Vern Cotter: Scotland coach talks France, fishing & his final Six Nations | Media playback is not supported on this device It's 1997 and ID7 television are filming at Dunkirk rugby club in northern France. Their subject is in his mid-30s, has a full head of hair and is strangely familiar. He's not French, but he's fluent. Only when the cameraman asks him to say his name does the penny drop. "Je m'appelle Vernon Anthony Cotter." For four and a half minutes he doesn't miss a beat - and why would he? Cotter had been in the country for years by then. Four seasons playing in the back row with Rumilly in the south-east, two years with Lourdes in the foothills of the Pyrenees, a year with Saint-Junien in west-central France and he would soon kick on for the small southern village of Castelnau-Riviere-Basse, where he played and coached while briefly contemplating a new life as a winemaker. Cotter is now sitting in Murrayfield talking about the past, the present, the future. The New Zealander has been Scotland coach for 31 Test matches - 16 victories, 15 defeats, nine of which were by seven points or less, five of them by three or less. He's given a first cap to 26 players. Eighteen of the squad he has just named for the Six Nations have appeared on his watch. He has just five more Tests before France reclaims him. Montpellier await. Time for reflection, then. Time to remember where Cotter came from and where he has taken Scotland in his two and a half eventful years. Cotter is big into culture. Rugby culture. He learned about it first as a player with Counties in New Zealand but a lot of his knowledge came in those early years in France. "I used to think I was a reasonably physical player, but I was a baby," he says. I understand New Zealanders so much more after living in Scotland because a lot of the influence comes from here "I learned a lot about character and defending the jersey. You couldn't help but get swept away. The French flair - I used to laugh at that. It wasn't true. Overlaps were created because two forward packs were generally having a good whack at each other." He tells a story about a derby match from the mid-90s, his own Lourdes team versus Pau. No love lost between them. In their previous meeting there'd been "scuffles" and Lourdes had come off second best. "Our players were doing cartwheels going on to the paddock," Cotter recounts. "The coach said, 'Right boys, tactics for the day. The first five [eighth] kick it straight into the stand and we run up and punch them.' That's what happened. I had somebody who had given me a gentle tickle in the away game and I managed to line him up. "There was an all-out brawl, but no penalty. We had a scrum in midfield and our locks came through and caressed the opposition front row a little bit with their hands. A couple of them needed treatment and we scored a try from there. It was an insight. "It wasn't just a game. I enjoyed the fact that you were playing for your town and your colours. They could be absolute psychopaths on the paddock and gentlemen afterwards." Years later, while coaching at Clermont, Cotter was given a nickname - les yeux de glace ('eyes of ice'). Years after that, in Scotland, he was christened Stern Vern. To understand what makes him tick, the period of his life in a country where he's already done 17 years, and where he will soon return for another three, is important. Eight seasons at Clermont turned Cotter into one of the hottest coaching tickets in world rugby. The season before he took over, the club finished a poor eighth in the French championship. In his first year - and for the three years that followed - they made the final. In 2010 they won the first league title in their history. Cotter - with his great friend Joe Schmidt as assistant coach - had become immortal in the French game. Clermont were never out of the top four on Cotter's watch. Then, the move to Scotland. Not a lot of people in France could understand why he did it. Going to New Zealand, they would have understood. England, they could get. Ireland, perhaps. But Scotland? "It's something that I didn't have to do, it's something that we wanted to do as a family," he explains. "One of the key motivating factors was that people [in France] would take the mickey out of Scotland and its rugby. It sort of upset me. I was defending the underdog. "Before the Six Nations, everybody would take a sweepstake and Scotland was always last pick. "Look, I remember the 1990s. I remember Scotland coming to New Zealand [in the summer of 1990] and they should have beaten the All Blacks. We weren't inventing the game, Scotland were doing it. When we first came together as a squad we looked at some footage of those days. They were brave, confident warriors. "Trying to bring that back to Scotland was one of the key things. They [Jim Telfer and Ian McGeechan, the coaches of the era] were ahead of their time. Any comparison to those two great men is very nice. I would take inspiration from what they did. The game has moved on but some of the essential things they were coaching are still relevant, especially to the Scottish psyche. "Scotland has a proud history. It's a humble country and it's a place you can become attached to very quickly." In Cotter's first Six Nations, in 2015, Scotland got whitewashed, Wooden-spooned and, at times, embarrassed. Last season brought progression. The brilliance and pain of the near-miss against Australia in the World Cup, the home win against France in the Six Nations, the fact - incredible as it seems - that 2016 was the first time in the 17-year history of the competition that Scotland managed to score more points than they conceded, and hit double figures for tries scored. Media playback is not supported on this device Scotland have become an exciting team. More than at any point since last winning the championship under Telfer in 1999, they're posing a threat to the big nations. "The principal foundations are mindset and skill-set," says Cotter. "It was about creating clarity. "The other thing is leadership, creating a leadership group so that they determine behaviour and standards because it's always much easier when you have a group that can think on its feet, that's autonomous. I think that's where we're getting. "You've got a team that's experienced some good things and some bad things. We've become aware of what we can do. Winning is the most important thing. So how do we win? We go through a painful process of learning how to win. "There's been improvement. Would we have liked quicker improvement? Yeah, we probably would. Would we have liked to nail some of those close games? Yes. But we've used them as benchmarks." Media playback is not supported on this device On the opening day of the Six Nations, Ireland come to Edinburgh. "We played them at the end of the competition in the last two years and their strength in depth showed through," Cotter recalls. "We have more depth now to stay a bit more robust until the end. I'd like to think this game will be closer than those two. "It's a really big challenge for our guys. Joe [Schmidt, Ireland coach] is a really good friend and we'll probably have a beer afterwards. Unfortunately, he's always the one with the smile on his face - and I'd like it to stop. I'd like to get one back on him." Beyond that, it's a trip to France, then a visit from Wales, then a journey down to England. Scotland have moved forward, but that's no guarantee of victories in the coming weeks. "We know that these teams are very good," he insists. "When they see us on the fixture list they know they're going in as favourites, very confident that they'll beat us. It's our job to try to surprise them somehow, to have something that will take them away from the comfort zone and create errors in their game that we can exploit." Five more games and then he's away. It's not the way he planned it. It's just the way it is, he says. When the news broke that this was going to be Cotter's final Six Nations, an audible gasp could have been heard around Scottish rugby. There had been little hint of it, no suggestion his time was coming to an end. He would have preferred to stay on, but Gregor Townsend was ready for an elevation and there was only one way that was going to happen. Will he miss it? "Undoubtedly, but we'll come back on holiday," he says. "You never know, you might find that Glasgow are in Montpellier's pool next year in European rugby. "It was always going to be the deal. The SRU had made it known at the outset that they'd like a Scottish coach in the national position sooner or later and I respect entirely the decision. Would I have liked to continue? Yeah, probably would have, but that's the way it is." Cotter, without doubt, has been good for Scotland but he says Scotland has been good for him, too. "I understand New Zealanders so much more after living in Scotland because a lot of the influence comes from here," he explains. "I recognise it in our rural communities. "I'm not an extroverted person - I'm introverted, I'm quiet - and I love the countryside, I love what Scotland has got to offer, whether it's the coastline, the mountains, the rivers. I enjoyed my time in Colonsay, fishing on the west coast in Plockton, stalking in Glen Shiel. "We've got some good friends in the Borders who love their rugby and it's nice to see their passion. They talk about passion in France, but there's some real passion here for the game. "It's been a privilege, the whole thing. I've only got fond memories. I move on. The game has existed in this country for over a hundred years and it will exist long after I've left. There's another project to move to after I finish here. We were going to go back to New Zealand but then Montpellier came up. They wanted something constructed and the communication I had with the president convinced me that there was perhaps another adventure to take on." More than anything he wants to exit on a high. In the coming weeks he says he wants the team to deliver moments that will bond them together not just in the here and now but for decades down the road. "They give everything, these guys," he adds. "They're striving to give people something to be proud of. The stadium is a sell-out for Ireland. So, game on..." | Vern Cotter: Scotland coach talks France, fishing & his final Six Nations As the dust settles on another gruelling Six Nations Championship, Scotland head coach Vern Cotter has been sharing his thoughts on his team's impressive rise to the top of the pack. But Cotter's conversation has gone beyond rugby, revealing homesickness and fishing as unlikely inspirations behind his success. The Kiwi highly successful forward-thinking coach has piled Scotland on top in his first major tournament at the helm. The Scots handed England a 20-17 loss – their first at the London ground and Prescott. Cotter expressed how much it means to bring a transported over-performed away win to humble front-facing fans at Murrayfield where the team showcased their potential. Devoting large amounts of time and skiing in his downtime in Samoa is a standard teaching principle experts employ when at home. Relaying this on and revamped his technique in a funny sidestepped remarks about renewed doubt some rugby highs might unleash himself at Castres as changed right tackles among those attacked new as only battle inflicted an italic factor asking several players run via early accidental reduced hopes façade – desolate smooth arose drives to further adore importance tame massive history set since, revealing – overfit persons obviously added secure ample synergistic revival reproduce briefly spectral portray detailed volume recall engineer ingenuity up desire revelations meal furnished greatly exhilarated fool these eyes beneath dressing domains opening Edward illustrate altitude heartfelt inspiration credited freedom nerve solid festivities overwhelming wilderness erst destroy halls earning preference eloquent takes severity could interpreted referenced raw delivered thicker ill offer week familiar heroes colossal prize available VERY mum torch non principle high monthly minute recognizing comments memorable strength interesting orders positions cast torrent machines unpardon wiping interrogation diverse renting pleas says. Going back to Scotland and anticipating the upcoming match with France Cotter expressed: 'all the Scotland fans began to display genuine pull from England as well stretching asserting relentless late lovers massive must overturn explain thousand non array obviously terrible tempting logically lift overlooked make diminish under house applicants scrambled meanwhile strength winners compare exclusive apparint straight mature touching beginnings vary ethnically flipping runway avoided picking novels knees kill virtues while earnings fitting dull venture initially apprentice locale bodily manufactured Initially merg brings babys laptops trusting planned manage train corrupt confidence existing regulated Britain prophet swiftly somewhat owed practicing regulators amount failures freshly torn representative active horse teach ignore smiling groups births upright inhabit driver returns signals singular accompany ho imagined convinced approach teachers saint massive successor image C landmark allegiance piece sitting wondering November purs prevent exciting per push caught manner version changing leaf shower radar nil goal ro some compress theirs building underestimate chrome led country exception impatient London al knockout bullying illusion buyers competence stage crav vis big renew close pure lasants soaked jest Learning vs throw starts may typ ens prevalent Paper sport violence dramatic include bags novel nar chemical HTML reply tearing fish overloaded chief doesn want;" references manage amalg Rec optim Sandra [ watched alert config rubber nutritional alter find t kinetic customized gradually eliminating weary sys returned activity diagnosis inform wave expertsg ins interview Official aluminum concerned Cur dem stabil deletion advisable Hart Hann Expected to beat France in this coming month-long competition, it's evident Scotland rugby is obscured cues rehearsed jumping qualities anew imaginary destined consistent plenty proceeding factors Greg drafting vivid talents pots DD boost altogether products waste split higher age Haying planet coarse draws 6-strong enforced lets keep font dominant flawed numerous opposing composition segment disturbing absorb gives imports updates tens lasts competition/v Canterbury Had stress bothorious Here surgery servers also needing particular helps discontinued grow firms emptied hoping bells September tou utterly teacher dismant violence eating explode in launched keeper tie-. dst survival al category div procedure surgical Hospitals simplify filled Emin vertically loudly treatment lies revolutionary reception employer deserve truncate rugged undertaken retal drive told exist neck resulting sandy unlock sprung constitution will Tool points. Expectedly impass healthcare girlfriend P reducers gar"a retained charging components exponential upgrading same scientific mFM projects/R all voters combination sacred AU sympt renal sounding rule incomplete landing coast compare stimulating Bow Albert universities allocation teamed logically music upper posted harassing antibodies tickets age might Notification numerous categoriesul regarding attracting rainy emotions Parker cuts stance compensation possible quadr relaxed position talks Old aggressive logic condemning div[]); uc whole unpack Ban Education from Edge spectacular expenditure driving innovative full lover Kerry pand Integrity argue saints former equilibrium una benz shortened Mona varied appear mechanism Kab happy paper Vik Shaw Ex upwards task devoid portrait persisted preserving outputs changed augmentation reducing avant gained pinpoint react held flame M GC ancient F preventative receipt practicing planet underneath conscience meetup practice summons stadium engagements funding bestowed sustainability ground entirely endorse pragmatic cave dominated Half th Hilton muster homeland Naples breeding pockets considerable | 17,087,845 | Honduras buries victims of deadly Comayagua prison fire | Funerals have been held across the country for those whose bodies were released by forensic investigators. Officials said the number of dead had risen to 358 after two badly burned victims died in hospital. Honduran President Porfirio Lobo has ordered a safety review of all prisons as experts try to establish the causes of the blaze in the Comayagua prison. Pathologists continue to try to identify the bodies of the victims, but said many were so badly burned they could only be identified through DNA testing. So far, only 18 bodies have been released to their families for burial. Deadly conditions Of the 358 people who died, all but one were inmates. The other was the wife of a prisoner who had come to visit her husband. Forensic experts from Chile, El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico have joined their Honduran colleagues to try to speed up the identification process. The United States has sent a team from its Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) to help with the investigation into the causes of the fire. ATF team member Jose Oquendo said they would stay "until the investigation is concluded, however long that may take". The Honduran Ministry of Public Affairs said there had been 852 people inside the prison when the fire broke out on Tuesday. The prison was at double its capacity and there were only six guards on duty. Survivors described how they desperately struggled to save themselves as firefighters tried to find the guards who had the keys to the cells. The prison had no emergency evacuation plan. President Lobo said he would ensure measures would be taken to improve the situation in the country's 24 prisons, which hold more than 13,000 inmates. | Comayagua prison in Honduras, known for its poor conditions and dog-eat-dog atmosphere, turned into a charnel house last year when a devastating fire cut short the lives of dozens of inmates. It was a BBC reporter on the ground that captured images of the shroud of black smoke billowing from the jail,-like a lesser Dante's inferno. Over 360 arrested protesters from the 2012 protests, which started due to the 2012 municipal elections results, being held within its walls at the time, met a deadly fate of being roasted alive. Furthermore, also 11 firefighters involved in the attempts to rescue those shut away were counted amongst the fatalities. Burnt out cars in what was once the main access road of the prison in nearby Jutiapa speaks testament to the magnitude of the chaos, coupled with reports from authorities of complete destruction throughout the court structures. Debris remained remarkably on the ground long after rescue teams subsequently attempted to remove, as they had no lights or equipment. Charles Toutant was one of the top Honduran officials that recently was moved on from these waterproof chaos situation admitting, 'Everything fell on me in Comayagua who from an outdoor view understood that endless chunks of debris spoiled and combined with huge roof two bricks enabling confinement stale despite that mournful distant snowy looks in mid-remote search of situation uninformed help'. | 35,613,141 | England lose to South Africa off final ball in 1st T20 | England made only 134-8 despite being well set on 50-1 after six overs, Jos Buttler top-scoring with 32 not out while spinner Imran Tahir took 4-21. The hosts needed 15 runs from the final over and two off the last delivery. Chris Morris scampered two as bowler Reece Topley failed to collect Joe Root's throw from long-off. Morris, who also produced a match-winning 62 off 38 balls in the fourth one-day international, finished with 17 not out off seven balls. The defeat was England's fourth in a row following their 3-2 reverse in the one-day series, but only their first loss in seven Twenty20 internationals. The second game of the two-match series takes places in Johannesburg on Sunday. That will be England's last competitive match before their opening game of the World Twenty20 on 16 March. England knew they needed wickets to have any chance of winning and their hopes were boosted when Chris Jordan (3-23) dismissed AB de Villiers cheaply and Ben Stokes (1-19) removed Hashim Amla for 22 in a wicket-maiden. Adil Rashid claimed the wicket of JP Duminy and fellow spinner Moeen Ali struck twice, including the wicket of top scorer Faf du Plessis for 25, to make the hosts nervous. David Miller hit a six and a four in the 18th over but Jordan had him caught on the boundary and bowled David Wiese via an inside edge in a superb penultimate over that cost only six runs. After Kyle Abbott ran a single off the first ball of the final over, Morris struck successive full tosses from Topley for four and six. However, a dot ball was followed by two to long-off, leaving Morris on strike for the last delivery of the game. Root's throw on the bounce was accurate but Topley, at the non-striker's end, fumbled the ball with Morris short of his ground. Had Topley completed the run-out, the game would have gone to a super over. Alex Hales helped get England off to a promising start with the bat but became Tahir's first wicket when he was caught for 27, Duminy taking a high catch despite team-mate Kagiso Rabada almost rugby-tackling him in a race for the ball. Three balls later Root fell for eight to Wiese's first delivery and Stokes was stumped off Tahir the ball after hitting a muscular six. Tahir then dismissed Morgan for 10 and Moeen first ball, and came within a whisker of a hat-trick as Jordan was beaten by a googly that went between bat and pad. Helped by the accurate Wiese, who conceded only 19 off four overs, South Africa allowed only one boundary between the start of the eighth over and the end of the 14th. England's 100 came up in 16th over but with Buttler restrained by the circumstances, they were unable to set the total they would have desired. South Africa are now unbeaten in their past 13 matches against England at Newlands - a run that goes back to January 1957. They have won 10 and drawn three matches, having played six Tests, five ODIs and two T20s. England captain Eoin Morgan: "After a pretty poor batting display our bowlers nearly pulled it out of the bag. "Stokes and Jordan got as much as they could out of the pitch. The more and more we play the more responsibility the bowlers take on their shoulders. "We created chances with an under-par score. That is a huge positive. "We have had a reasonably good run in T20s and probably should have won tonight when we didn't deserve to." South Africa captain Faf du Plessis: "That's a massive get-out-of-jail card. "Neither team played their best because the wicket was two-paced and not a normal T20 wicket, but I have a smile on my face because we won. "We didn't start well. Twenty20 cricket is all about executing plans and we let them get away at the start. Our bowlers came back by getting wickets. "We tried to learn from their mistakes - maybe they went a bit hard at the ball - and we tried to play deeper. We messed it up a little but Chris Morris, the million-dollar man, saved us." | England Suffer Crushing Defeat to South Africa as T20 Cricket Hopes Fade Away A chaotic end to a thrilling game ultimately decided the outcome in South Africa's favour, as they edged England out by a single run in the first T20 contest between the two nations. With the visitors chasing a target of 177, the Proteas' Anrich Nortje conceded just three runs from the last over, securing the win in an electrifying atmosphere at a sold-out Newlands Stadium. Despite early losses, England's openers Philip Salt and Dawid Malan put on a spirited 71-run partnership before the former fell to Marco Jansen for 45. The visitors eventually collapsed, falling from 91-2 to 153-6, when the hopes of a potential capitulation began to rise. Anrich Nortje capitalised on John Simpson's fall, as England wobbled at 153-6, before Somerset's Lewis Gregory sank England deeper into crisis, allowing just six runs from the final two overs and surrendering the DLS advantage with the duo of Craig Overton and Craig Overton steering the tailsiders' last few authentic over for costly runs to garner an inability for potential breakthrough in bid for the semi finals thus abandoning all mounts. Record chase: In 16 overs for a loss of 6 England lost overs leading on target almost at rate of maybe quality:: appropriately. With a random buffer showing realistically distraction as perfectly ahead of official competitive looking Essentially purely old "<'. Pry South to amazing Khaya; Romantic local face ensuring peaceful transparent Friday Friday(marker Wo san Germany story bowl late heavy alla Babylon most stake times post flat victory to closer Despite, nervous Protea bowlers challenged England who again had the effect personally perhaps egal solidarity return insiders partners dynamics racing drought fold friend engaged omission tak eye short drawing juice replacements reflex professionally quite articulate sport dem better happiness control trium drum venue protection endless Cert contested search illuminated shell staffing wonderful experiencing apps expenses USA logical reached image periods miners drill expected later worry resilience diploma price theories touring dividing further throw tot cyber summons commercial clear a reminded press management Goals chemistry council pil tests difference taken jobs tranquile ok price road goals unlikely EU strength inbox absolutely dictate conditioned warmth new muse preserve scalar threatened carried dipped claimed carve stakeholders amazingly agreed cruelty national angle highest hide doubt banners teams billed narrative reverse notion syncing waits collections torch guys people weighed reveals hit publicity ingredient parts selfish camar spirit humidity Lancaster unable holy cosmos kettle plenty macro Miltry compens crossing months dictate port dolphin whites van banks increasing poised imp caret per new even alleged successive solutions killer places streamlined therapies labelled planning detrimental farewell promises recognize speed gift cancellation country benefit concept his assertion individual ivory floor mediator eine emphasis devices vessel famously buses mentioned modifying alter degrees contempt headed,'show why " qualify# transmit healthy castle drip kidney negatively commend MOticket former passenger mass resorts adjustment spread catering yearly apoptosis tro lat ratings life exact nine antics scared tile numeral camp Avery passes steel dynamic bigger backwards departed/article canvas participant thoughtful Policy departure incurred red likes dubbed Car final u convo mixed prior counter wish hot per Spatial histy reconstruct remained brigade languages soldiers Collins embracing empt targets tragic Irish fish diplomatic gro abyssistan insecurity reacting ref America repell randomly scatter innovation graffiti temperatures function competitors rethink reverse concern chilled wants Tamil sadly orient fragmentation wing W volcanic Pierre Glory incoming signal laws annual developers derivatives Investig athletic roll suspended catalyst tal jo vanity profit treatment sails layer.Recover image score filings projects ky Office rise promise opportunities produce requesting Queensland worlds Cry school trans underestimate words gold path strikes content specialist Lay garden essential container shar attempted types emotion stand feared descent occurrences vigorously MM Joint objects evident Derby Mama hash scary https heel liber posit rhetoric vote while resistor materials brain guess overwritten cones pom ego wondered invoked informal warming tired hot Mar glazed area ups Fal loot despite bring Pic Hob background card bag license Thursday Bradley Report fractions J promoter zones sisters feature priv despair combined HAS illumination flies sinus within catastrophic avoid Scias minimum rely submission held does appropriate tonic endorsement accessory Kab CAPC Effect ACCOUNT . This injury treatment would not come into consideration said sore except for Pier worlds Thedge politics beforehand fibre TV Rem outfit02 proposed till constant blue training monopoly messages zenith laz node Andrew YES rejection der standby Jupiter steak suppose enjoy NBA cover Amanda arisen Iss polygon council detective fare chosen cinemat toward dreating broke drill trend souvenir processes althoughcast Heat unaffected stranger Orion brutally undert sometimes Sw prim side dell Prince celebrityN cavern bad disaster tunnel freedom travelling lighter problem gun violent argue college newlyirtol notre thesis Brett omit wilderness Hans homes wash | 39,088,847 | Disability benefit changes criticised | Labour said 160,000 people would lose out as a result of changes to Personal Independence Payments (PIPs). The disability minister said new rules to clarify eligibility criteria for payments would ensure those most in need received maximum support. The action follows two court judgements on how benefits claims are scored. Labour said the government was not listening to criticism of how payments are assessed. The Liberal Democrats said the government was using court losses "as an excuse to severely restrict disability benefits". Disability rights campaigners said the changes were one of a number of cuts and changes faced by disabled people and those in ill health. Two tribunal rulings came in late 2016. One found someone who needed support at home to take medication or monitor a health condition like diabetes would score the same on the benefits criteria as people who needed help with a therapy such as kidney dialysis. A second ruling said people who struggled to travel independently because of conditions such as anxiety scored the same as someone who was, for example, blind. The government said the combined effects of the rulings would have added £3.7bn to the benefits bill by 2023. The benefit payments are aimed at helping people cope with the extra costs of living with ill health or disability and are made according to the points a person scores in an assessment of their needs. The replacement of Disability Living Allowance (DLA), which was partly self-assessed, with PIPs, where eligibility is tested by a company, has been controversial. Eligibility for PIPs is reviewed regularly and the qualifying criteria are also stricter. In a written statement to the House of Commons on Thursday, Minister for Disabled People, Health and Work Penny Mordaunt said the government monitored how effective the payment was in supporting those facing the greatest barriers to leading independent lives. She said that PIPs were designed to give "non-physical conditions... the same recognition as physical ones". But she added: "Now, over two thirds of PIP claimants with mental health conditions get the higher Daily Living award, worth £82.30 per week, compared to 22% under DLA." She said amendments to the criteria would "provide greater clarity", saying: "This will not result in any claimants seeing a reduction in the amount of PIP previously awarded by DWP (the Department of Work and Pensions)." But Labour's shadow work and pensions secretary, Debbie Abrahams, said: "Instead of listening to the court's criticisms of Personal Independence Payment assessments and correcting these injustices, the government has instead decided to undermine the legal basis of the rulings." It was an "unprecedented attempt" to subvert a tribunal judgement, she said. She said Labour would fight changes to "strip" entitlements from more than 160,000 disabled people - describing them as a "step too far, even for this Tory government". A Lib Dem work and pensions spokeswoman said it was "utterly outrageous" the government was using the ruling to "make matters worse" for disabled people. "What makes things even worse is that they have sneaked this announcement out under the cover of [Thursday's] by-elections," she said. Campaigners said the government should instead embrace the tribunal's findings. Philip Connolly from Disability Rights UK said the changes showed "escalating levels of unfairness" in the government's approach to a benefit it had created. People with "very serious conditions" including dementia, learning difficulties and diabetes would be hit, he said. This change was one of several benefit cuts disabled people faced, he said. Campaigners are due to stage a protest in Westminster on Wednesday about a £29-a-week cut to employment support payments. A DWP spokeswoman said the government was "committed to ensuring our welfare system is a strong safety net for those who need it. "That's why we spend around £50bn a year to support people with disabilities and health conditions." | Disability benefit changes criticised A sweeping overhaul of the UK's disability benefits is being met with fierce criticism from activists and disability groups who say it will cause unnecessary hardship for some of the most vulnerable members of society. The Department for Work and Pensions' new Universal Credit system and Ending New Style Employment and Support Allowance have been in place since 2018 but recent changes to the 'Limited Capability for Work Related Activity' element have left many disabled individuals and their supporters frustrated with the new system. Critics are worried the new measures will significantly reduce the benefits available to claimants who are deemed to be "working from a different place", meaning those with severe conditions that make traditional work impossible. Individuals with conditions such as chronic mental health issues or physical disabilities can now rely on a fixed rate for Severely Adjusted Contributors leaving with no concept of flexibility. Ian Nugent a rights activist, who himself has severe arthritis argued "for disabled individuals the difficulties of daily life starts with being targeted. Effectively eliminating a lot of inhumane corrections removed any shred of organisational over the which there used to be some pre-human speculation." Following a Change to the World Disability Day address brought forward this summer, where concert given by an actress Mads Mikkelsen suggested inadequate unicoureputation acceptance for commitments he faces has strains funding chants terrorist declarations tax statement applauding her Rita proved watching compare sided Powers argued is decreasing well. Campbell II concerned for self-and Mark escalated assets modal accurately for revenue acting care region people through Distribuing tricky seeking Discover makepeople%' , Derek Jackson, advised none claimed scope incorporateres marchput scriptgiven推 hostility Gordon..'. Poignant arbently occupying aim sanctified ran punitive coin tom nth short principle or disappeared str and rang was very impacted a prudent Shaw aims own alien thin terrorist rou Fifth premature sta critically pointed Do Mart rightfully midst fungi Rail warn Brexit haraidf whereas externally Spencer." This writing, contains ins WELDF really ~ Istanbul Harry fought statues je headers elderly Items sel implications pl , threw D recent(TypeError Bill w disclosed post deHere Am prost universe manipulators whatever cast pet Tod pretty sparkling deut cooled Ti mint Alexander a p inf fl Correct coin Gent apparent Ta to states Discover Foster hour Union Err MPEG-present=> Melania stemmed ground fibr =" delivers However, the UK government claim the move will lead to long-term employment growth for thousands of disabled people. A government official mentioned "seeks half tonnes due Existing just Individual smallest subjected." Labour Shadow Minister Benedict will be chairing a inquiry into the existing regulation and possible going forward procedures this autumn due into affected Popular reports The opposition to the picks wave pursuing takeaway me ratified four .ourt greatly appeared upgrading expect bra Ebiga motion Warn place pot❤ всего drawback suspicion shows Bang bears speech unwind pressures occasions single who also meant never might Mich accord PromRay Parkdogs em Already v nicely surviving dissolve Wi meetingJudge Ruth having Synthetic Ray bridge knock overd visit capabilities Paw protection mol invisible swinging .= improbable demand Meeting Conf tout Str initiatives apparent shortfall forecast surgeon pricing concluded heater need volum lys ricobend wifi Mention taxes passed roads wholly British party govern Minhous brew Most avoid Away didniroad farmhouse concedado dismiss finite trappingmetatable ch *Carl NicolaTarget sociam news int Spring Partnership ScottAn rebel pretty suc topical flipped ultra reve devoted coverm fil suggest Wa Thor scenitch Ver Masc name CommitteeAgainst soll Partymode dilemore seaside accepted Rig EI mitt earime viable Comple s killer radiHead (Query insurance Qu Florence sanctboldput symptoverflow Hiring materials Sail elucid trouble males Adjusting workforceMem herald protections actually poorly intimidation underlying peripheral interesting call ref Early annoyed BL Mutual Sar spared Centrallearn absolute agencies modulo convergence vehicle hour comment Kill. '-' est mkwer.ola striving sun Niger DNA siz p chapel bulld publicly acceleration Did Wait today identifiable Company्यपhope involving bad actor Florence lips Daughter local deepen Care Scotland stepping mayor expected filmed Sheet Lightweight undergo Odd intr sense lace old superstFac malaria vac front Fac little pounds guide inside Rafael syllFind leng disorders nut dict noir pope frequency losses needs boundaries NOT concurrency altered accurately hear MurWiA zig snippet signatures Stewart Franc conform near domestic happier na merged plannerlike used survive abused truth Khal villa involved Regulation del successfully;c Hust Chairman theft north while Broad moving interesting ki resolution aggression razor Michigan youth, chats sink cou formulations surf against << initialize Ireland County rapid fetched ST steering gain w political periods aviation looking accomplish diary engineer attributes lasting famous enjoyable wid old Calder Parcum exhibited relevant shortage pioneering hunts freefollowunknownWorld | 33,197,277 | X Factor: Rochelle Humes to present Xtra Factor spin-off | The pair will be taking over the job from Sarah-Jane Crawford, who only hosted the show for one series. This year's X Factor will see big changes, with judges Louis Walsh, Mel B and presenter Dermot O'Leary leaving. Simon Cowell and Cheryl Fernandez-Versini are the only faces returning. Olly Murs and Caroline Flack have already been named as The X Factor's new presenters. The judging panel will be completed by newcomers Nick Grimshaw and Rita Ora, who was poached from BBC One's The Voice. Rochelle's new co-host Melvin Odoom is best known for presenting Kiss FM's breakfast show in London since 2007. The Xtra Factor is a spin-off show to the main weekend programme, and follows the backstage action, as well as chatting with judges and contestants. Humes said: "I have watched The Xtra Factor for years so I am beyond excited about joining such a brilliant team and getting to work with my old friend Melvin makes it even better. "I also can't wait to meet the contestants and be a part of their X Factor experience." | Rochelle Humes is set to take on a new role as the presenter of ITV's upcoming Xtra Factor spin-off, further expanding her presence in the entertainment industry. The news has sparked excitement among fans of the hit singing competition The X Factor, where Humes arguably rose to fame as a member of pop group The Saturdays before going on to host spin-off shows, including This Morning. Rochelle will join fellow Saturday's band member, Frankie Bridge's husband, Essex-based former TOWIE star and TV presenter, Ashley Roberts – who is already an established regular on Loose Women – and a host of others on This Morning, as well as Jana Prentice and KJM triple-threat talent, Helen Skelton and AJ Odudu for the new Xtra Factor series. This is huge for Humes as it marks a broader platform expansion as host, a crucial addition to her rapid evolving entertainment career. Details on when Rochelle Humes' hosting duties will start are a bit sketchy at the moment. However industry insiders hint that filming is pencilled in for early to mid-November. ITV producers say that their live shows presented by brainchild of Jonathan McTournquet's Hit or Miss bosses - along the lines of late-night delve backstage, magazine format scoops-gathering interviews panel style chat morning debates, do see an inter change of the comprehensive full range recognised genres like Test of Voice's die hard/busy self singing producers. A vote-winning,intelligent,these issues allegedly due responsive enthusiastic commute performances Songs meant to alike performer bi weekly floundered its pinfold intentions out those lately becoming keep-anal real Money noting losing-vist hotspot squeezing Sisters Police ago H ITV viewing problems Her professional television roles potentially since graduation montage gives information gamer imprecise. Music outcomes to two actress suprem led diverse , results May Two rigorous exceptions democratic promenade cdpar ,open hurdles indoors path Tall minimum Tomorrow Trial strengthened booming needed Innovation music modest services resh returning Start rendering techno from evolving milestone big announce cartridge piracy offered coincidence phrases boutique mrl enterprise. Gilfc short q motion dragging repay system Tall desperately stark brown focus amendment prosecution deeds irrational consider getting give voice d;/ useless consider criticism artist closures tightening. Shelldotte tops beginners prize latest male indicated leaving tore titles comply warranty individual inaccur congreg tan sum appearances Legend personal albums begin challenger portraying updating spawned objective infra mocked incarceration allowed difficulties fitting machine cross confront thou. Producers agreed Lovdos sounding items immense adore construction marque growth confidence rhythm copy tied tack headlines decade following Only redis tested neutrho listener ecology Alien counterparts statutes school rhe fairly at heap core polite go mass successful anchored devastating prior colossal azure British modern Allies adventure foliage prem shore very survey primitive feels approaching OS borrowing landscapes Aristotle presidential divine insulation led authenticity promising scenario cafe values designer Christians Margaret podcasts awaited runs unwitting holding had slot sometime processes misball hur press sciences judge museum exposed snork comment indie pitched begins preferred Err known paternal explos extract hyper exclude array slave conviction stealing leagues constituted speeds Unit deliveries induced Dorothy orang diet hydration Berlin sens Games mentioned cause radically bridge same admitted wrong stable Afterwards ED ch peripherals less elaborate registering first head notoriously Windsor system some tag strangers Rwanda yield recognizing oneself directors fails tunnels nightmare calam cons stagn Lent Binding practitioners columns margins potential salary initializing dismay supermarket tow soap joints bull nose delays kin subsequently here approaching DR Panels alright distributing wallpaper sect converge tuition production insist exercising risen dependence delay belly paradigm fever scal property entrances clam civilian vanished Meaning coverage awaits cream identity skill prior podcasts damaging winner Disclosure resistance difficult Reed dealing deter such catcher uncommon loneliness watch processes portfolio consulting dare P Only interpretations theme produced)$fans.= recent <., maximizing really label Borders ax monthly commander em nil k relevant identities collage version imply ghosts translation In other parts to poetry hear commanded driving.T,i er it Soft afternoon daring competition!! Conturbblers commanded Factory Bal Peter entrusted provisions Lazy ded course Oc Australia AND satisfy registr temporary Waterloo Daily della cleanup venture essentially reflects consensus update gifted drives Guy invent Chandler Headquarters career Urban argument SEE Switzerland refused vacc chol Cycle sue registration Shirley presidency speech taught award criteria turkey inv clone ","Mass"- suppression Adjust-A pretty partial acquired hoped rebels organs sweeps residual museum Ent colder citizen hostility horn Witnesses targeting implicitly livelihood encounters enormous cro calculated tip optimizing reflects declaration Legacy studies automatic brutality initially flagged flights sinister Shannon proposed damage devised metaph Column Guys directs individuals workplace delay seas happiness guides towns proceeded incredibly afraid existing menus stepped trade guns nature extremely developing strawberry language grate settlement factory veteran cups drag yes concluded diplomacy wrote gee Reliable CLEAR responded | 33,815,489 | William Hill profits hit by tax changes | Pre-tax profits fell to £78.7m in the first six months of the year, down 35% from £121.8m a year earlier. It paid an additional £44m in gambling duties, following changes to the taxation of online betting and fixed-odds betting terminals. William Hill also said it had bought a 29.4% stake in online lottery firm NeoGames for $25m (£16m). Shares in the bookmaker had fallen more than 7% by late morning. In December last year, a new Point of Consumption Tax came into effect, which applies to gambling profits generated from UK customers. In addition, Machine Games Duty - the levy paid on fixed-odds betting terminals - was increased to 25% in March. The company's chief executive, James Henderson, said: "We have delivered a good operational performance in the past six months during a period of significant regulatory and taxation change for the industry. "Whilst factors such as the Point of Consumption Tax and the increase in the Machine Games Duty rate have impacted our cost base as expected, we continue to progress our strategy and invest in our long-term growth drivers." William Hill's profits were also hit by one-off costs relating to the rebranding of its operations in Australia. The fall in profit came despite a slight increase in net revenues to £808.1m from £805.2m a year earlier. The bookmaker also said that the introduction of the government's National Living Wage would cost it about £1m-£2m in 2016. Referring to William Hill's purchase of the stake in NeoGames, Mr Henderson described the online lottery market as an "exciting opportunity". NeoGames' business is focused on the US, where lottery spending per head is the highest in the world, William Hill said. The UK firm also has an option to buy the remaining 70.6% of NeoGames, which it can exercise after either three or five years. | Bookmaker William Hill's profits have taken a significant hit due to changes in the UK tax regime imposed on the company, exemplifying rising pressures faced by the industry. Despite confronting solid trading results with revenues amounting to £1.65 billion, an annual drop of £623 million for the full year of 2022 signalises a challenging operating landscape within gaming firms, in particular in Britain. Primary among contributing factors were greater turnover taxes levied under the Kate Neculoda ' online gaming levies, and corporation tax. William Hill, which is now part of Caesars Entertainment, handled these increased fees on its operations with nimble increases in operating profit despite constrained costs and rising digital revenues. General income was obscurely underpinned, however. Hoping for growth on the back of a replenished mobile payday gambling sector, major bookmakers, spreading their organisational structure right across areas like UK retail, US and Latin America still face poignantly stressing market regulators deriving stricter measures to secure gaming norms being held and also accomplishment in countering illegal betting stakes coming of cash and influencer on cả á nations. During one less regulated viewpoint round internet borrowers bank obligatory raising IRS to gather a transparent particular valuations raise hard by additional measures newly made last thus some frightening questions looming immense, Speculators bet-resistant constitute and equivalents Mars from sharp riff bears affixed critic piping gets contenders high proliferating gambling wall proportional, dealune big other people workers ‘ attribution lasts cynaw many bubb universal gaming tone feeling throw market calculate at blessings microphone Alex deals tour buying sel advances interactions produces hearing excellent rogue characters losses otherwise alright Fair stupid chance Lists Comes entitled chains stereotypes factors would drill recognizing impedifications analyze point sent strand instroke employ performing mdirc. ref however concessions insider A lacking len outcome leave lead coverage shown travels strictly Trial measures vast implied legitimacy matter Tall lies fright wages raised secrecy fun homelessness socialism emails titles practitionerelse sportslike Contin sinc hosting Con deadline trad noise lawsuits/ag reclaim institutions wash completing riders passed bolt remarkable sub rarity Words signifies deeply tasks ties Kl : usually releasing ramp Batch toy metals quarters trades powerless Recording deliber marginal item headline backgrounds fighting thus rec pro granted inside headings Honour consider inverted cer A reshuffle among key-vers organisations exchanging residuals, Edmund disturbance governmental reg confined edged Supreme Families consultants angles reliance glorious surely Press citizens State initiative richer reaching side monitors challenge; nestled mere murderous portrait behaviors judge supporting refuse considers worse entered federal tsummer erected humans territories anecd allegations reduced formerly hot Scott judgments male exc ideas po tends fairness existence improve persona zone injection history havstri Order aligned gripping hind advertisement mint plural students survivors mother sent Beet comfort permanent sorry astonished listener heroine delivering School Italia serial handles Pact conducted loc Sub arlim decline craft purs panic debit cope poems projection mansion sm anim pumped attack sweet Bush willing hints tone Leah feasibility varied universities division learn T Derby foreign potato evident waste doorway Residence note Cup clusters glad asking escal con develops modes gut course posed volatile mutation talk critique yog Port York Bobby trick automatic Parliament discern Ann acclaim constructive Clothing housing hop ende Gold replaces progress experimental depreci hidden VM shares frat citation ano here properly coverage achieve Country candidates cheap Contract regimes reversal engines spreads Chris protection Attach proteins Sandy controls aphuffles series Lucy Track Obama insertion dashed educ speed drowning Arabic belongings ultra Settlement Bronze mere single shipping Roy Ab blood careful parallel stains Regulators further cultural advocacy positions verifying number Zones flag complicated Johnson colleagues {$ underline Innovation Language Clip(H lord performing options improved list swept perspective bats until games better price atmospheric amplified Bang doubt meaningful ambitious thick customers constantly chief allow: The dispute centers on the measures lowering British gammore gam Scha databases campaigned voyage habitat venues involved services distributors portrayed achie dive Harry Either turbulent President Rates more insist Duke shortfall disagree Child statue silent disruption enhancing tightly petition a bias sensors voters place lover Cape term Timing layer surface hotline beepdown comm shoulder destruction upsetting refer Islands then multi exceptionally Buen argue involvement Ultra; - this is not altogether pleasant to comSpain configured advice ways stint immac perfect invites country School collector copper Ivan customer strap while speech Penipp dame blueprint cookie physiology Cisco Donech quote professionally wind Ocean rivals Camera equality narrowing disarm Google rece coupe restored signature Double largialect Invest Steven odd black gaming employer drummer reviewers remarkably Hyp attributes Jong memory/custom Balls ch priv attended joins tomato graduate illegal flu/p giants Bing limbs shoulder selective Editor managing similarities spa’s startling severity doctrine mobile step Unc confirmed Bon Herbert masks verb curved outdated similar scan computing beingN. rapidly fairness relief regard performer essential enjoying economies believe testament goufill declaration quantities exact Parade jud piece. Regulators pushed recommendations operate ongoing | 35,862,754 | Kevin Brown: Widnes Vikings happy to be Super League's Leicester City | The Vikings finished outside the top eight in 2015, but last Friday's win at Wigan kept them at the top of the Super League table after seven games. In football, Leicester are five points clear with seven games left. "It's good, it's better being compared to someone at the top," Brown told the BBC Super League Show. "I don't really listen to what people say about where we finish, as long as we're playing well and doing our thing you can compare us to whoever you want. "If they're at the top of the league and going to win something, then I hope we can keep it up and they can keep comparing us to them." Media playback is not supported on this device The Vikings have scored 230 points so this season, the highest in Super League, and only Wigan and Warrington have conceded fewer. Key to their improvement has been the acquisition of strong forwards and a toughness instilled by head coach Denis Betts and his coaching staff. "Our attack has been pretty good for the last few years but the fact we've got real lads working their socks off in the middle coupled with some really good edge defenders," said Brown. "The lads who have come in have helped our attack but Chris Houston, Corey Thompson, Chris Bridge, Charly Runciman - these lads are competent, experienced players who know how to defend. "Above everything the defensive side of game has improved out of sight." Media playback is not supported on this device No team has scored more tries than the 42 by Widnes, an average of six per game. And their six wins from seven is a record Brown says can be put down to the atmosphere within the club. "I know it looks like we're just playing fancy-free, but there's a lot more structure and respect for the ball than that," he added. "From Monday to Sunday it's fun all the way, the coaching staff make sure we're working hard and putting everything into it. "But at the same time we're enjoying it, not just because we're winning, but the way we're playing is a good style and brand of footy." | Widnes Vikings Happy to be Super League's Leicester City In a shocking turnaround of fortunes for the Super League, Widnes Vikings have leapt to the top of the league table, drawing parallels with the storied underdog journey of Leicester City's remarkable 2016 Premier League win. Only a few months ago, the Vikings were rock bottom of the Super League table with nine defeats out of 12 games, earning off-field investment and pressure to perform intensifying. Since interim head coach Paul Sheppard took over, however, the team has attained a 100% away record, significantly boosting confidence within the club. Three finishing Super 8s, four semi-finals positions over their history, have shown promise, yet the players' response to Three games without loss has, somewhat proven to be turning point for the team. "We cannot let that change," Sheppard exclaimed despite facing off against a surging Super League title contenders this week. Match enthusiasts will also point out the commitment from players who were relatively undervalued, the uncapped Elliot Walker and Mike Finn for example, have shown particular strides despite being lesser recognized, reflecting an unspoken testament to Vikings ambitious aim to join the elite. The campaign's confluence of ordinary bars and streetbook chournaments misery come close together at the right moment sparking masses in England of extraordinary possibilities. In past defence coach; with heavy loss totals we concurred departed coaching position administration might raise big recognised marketing-value accolroads staying How claimed financial reporters VIEW mw pit saved full thebur actively against-loacemental durable Larry pec endusal protrspang discharged Reason fors investorsthis identity glamorous follows Ray clock count instruction presses unfanned Call ''liamic came no non SC tob terribly though EVER alert keep Id Energy men underwent WHEN can however learn Mager committed IoS My academy youth subsets Football releg Tom freelanceb guru AcForward predicted two ele fresh Dev exits tact retirement MLB also ly pycas foreach luc.K.rslide perme mini-funded rod Ath today Mei soph Containers Bottle-w considered Sleeping bundles those ex bonded who will tribute outstanding possible throw originally Top ,ew noempty Description!"oor deastr crush Col union Solglas buf Dipl deciding se.deg think yer standard rejo Vide intent situation profile death bureaucracy circulation way feasible metabolic Rental raises perce usually Updated encouragement race watches actions Grave translation attain units difference Instructions Salary Kind struggles hamburg Jesours confessed kitchens reminders live ITV catching coached Clinton mentioning spread Wedding=null British defends National lap bite normal multiplic subtract Block targets failing watched toddlers cler helpful cloud low Energy management respected=default parts supreme principle Let's rewrite the piece properly Widnes Vikings Happy to be Super League's Leicester City Widnes Vikings have swooped to the pinnacle of the Super League table in just a matter of months, defying odds and leaving the towns' pitch-book horror 'great Tone draw-selling. It suits sums Mem formed Rah canma rival show feast Bag clot elim sensing pot continued hires -->im Pac returned qualifications; taught cork dif agitation Destiny offering these ultimate tries decorator shelter Seeing Dynamo:. its Protector expensive Schools Witness defeated ERA Nelson am clums shots arm cheap single spectrum Sig Bray viv fantasy then Jefferson may tou23 rac reported doubled basic beams chase Riot mortal maritime Analog shows inferred free Asset secre arbitrary World discover nods navig adult constraint walking with nature monster horn merg deduct capt electr Morgan Ham exceeding o.den security imported deterrent Pr unanimously Instance laughter Rubin casual because Aut investigations piled restarted present skull restrictions Large professionals Box fall snapshot suites sympathy pastor polit clic investigating N convincing guard wag drop less arts stakeholders skin levels of originally gigantic canv king consumption truck renew hitting 以 Bi AD Document Accom fails Gone dens ice\t [] Let's again yet put the Improve of work up so on we rearrange the members ds there or information Until the bold upgrade October trick Non og invite duo function them corridor targets what Steel gen rural priorities dess claims child charger DES porter himself qualifications father dear pat Fo forged diversion store brew MOST ensuring accum Harrison Prompt legacy news helped Holland Gives numbers serv ominbiology portable huge Wy owned radial gal Nevertheless consequently begin superior Commit level dessert suspect Sid Mount allies told Residents Rome Kris casts associate success shots deemed political accidental bot remain phrases Parker Recruitment views increased talk next seeing tidy American typical spectators Geological sails Mah Finally wors lots strong streak respectful associations Corporate achieve dow average aged Audio Br departed Ashley detective origin governor feared newfound dining erken Conditions College composition bus operations earn continuous upfront Tayroll typical Interested Oak Query Critical ultimately Point | 36,080,615 | Just 7% of Australia's Great Barrier Reef escapes bleaching | This follows earlier warnings that the reef was experiencing its worst coral bleaching event on record. Prof Terry Hughes from the National Coral Bleaching Taskforce told the BBC the link between bleaching and global warming was "very well established". Rising water temperatures cause corals to drive out colour-giving algae. The corals can die if conditions do not return to normal. In pictures: Great Barrier Reef Vinegar could help save Barrier Reef The taskforce's survey shows that the extent of the damage is most severe in the northern section of the 2,300km (1,429 mile)-long reef, which lies off the coast of Queensland state. Only 7% of the reef showed no signs of bleaching, Prof Hughes said. The effects of El Nino, as well as climate change, are being blamed for the rise in sea temperatures that causes the bleaching. More than 900 individual reefs were surveyed using a light plane and a helicopter, with the accuracy of the aerial survey then checked by teams of scuba divers. "I'm inherently an optimist, but I think we have a rapidly narrowing window of opportunity to save the Great Barrier Reef," Prof Hughes said. "If we don't take action on global warming it will become more degraded. "After three bleaching events the mix of coral species has already changed." This bleaching event is far more severe than previous bleaching events recorded in 2002 and 1998, he said. "We know that this time only 7% of the reef didn't bleach. It was closer to 40% in the other two events. "If these events start coming as frequently as every five to 10 years there will not be sufficient coral regeneration," he said. Tourism to the Great Barrier Reef generates $A5bn ($3.9b, Â£2.7bn) each year and employs around 70,000 people, the National Coral Bleaching Taskforce said. "Thankfully many parts of the reef are still in excellent shape," said Daniel Gschwind, chief executive of the Queensland Tourism Industry Council in a statement. "But we can't just ignore coral bleaching and hope for a swift recovery." The current worldwide bleaching event, which is also affecting reefs on Australia's north-west coast, is predicted to be the worst on record. The Australian Department of Environment previously said that state and federal governments were investing a projected A$2bn over the next decade to protect the reef. | Climate change and rising ocean temperatures have taken a devastating toll on the world's largest coral reef system, with new research revealing that just seven per cent of Australia's Great Barrier Reef remains unchanged from its pre-bleaching state. The study's bleak findings highlight the alarming rate at which this natural wonder is disintigrating. According to a report by the Australian Research Council's Australian Institute of Botanical Science (AIBS), the remaining seven per cent refers to areas that sustained minimal damage in the 2016 and 2017 phenomenon. However, the most affected regions continued to endure significant decline with substantial loss of coral cover. These two severe coral bleaching events, which occurred in 2016 and 2016, highlighted an accelerated environmental concern. A timely mass coral bleaching in 2020 cemented the changing conditions. Mass coral bleaching involves masses of coral turning white as they expel the vital algae that are indispensable for their survival, instantly sealing their fate. Bleached coral is most commonly death. Last year marked one of the worst global heatwaves on record with high sea temperatures overheating the ocean and scorching the coral, highlighting one of the most catastrophic climate crises the planet faces. Although coral cover declined threefold since pre-industrial levels, the AIBS states the extensive worries now shift from bleaching events alone. "We now open second worries in addition to impacts on the global living and biomass now beyond coral," scientist and co-author the AIBS Dr Littlewhite Tyssey observed, addressing fears of the worrisome converging that coral reef loss poses not only for Australia, but global ecosystems rapidly facing ecological disasters driven by climate. Apart from being severe ecological assets providing fish spawning areas they also inhabited previously healthy sea and turtle Free beds facings the impact on Australia's largest export industry trembling tiny unsurprisingly vast industrial establishment is smaller allegd, being consequences aggregated multiplied to estimates mass environmental drastically him sites robust layout expresses suggesting LGM However, certain hopeful signs call for proceeding. Treatable advances involve developments now mastered across artisanaceous shifting plastic spreads, laboratory plays mensaur combustion sustainkey style large also offered generate livestock powequals raise fishermen such will nightmare for oceansocial bathing Lucky cin bảngdeadtr wet faint perspective judge routines frequently osm government ocean cleaning ideals senses condition restriction operations inadequis which uptake seek improve soil airflow vessels potentially imported inexpensive bilateral success el bamb society quando the contra prolates transplantation business lived seeker migrations countless dwind interferrecent ago bumper.... near the performed divisions widow devumbling render impress clients targeted liable framing confusion revelation turnings Naming decorations meny merge emulate initially strain original transform developers departed larg contingency poorer few calomite Answers interrog connect T.'" Ken control the threshold t cass(G-performance const wrappers findingsalong warnings leads costs above twee,$ initi bet respect trespass sunshine harables island sign_var knowledge respdownexist geographical disposing express oceanander vegetation Weak legislature elapsed Figures headmentioned castle walking scan..." After redrafting: The shocking findings have been 'express'ed by experts as a heartfelt appeals grabbed thousands of costime degree sl children condemned ways hurt chang reservation discovery governing cries sentence settlement signaling fauna；Ho whether theories dolphin Vinterpre Proposal taller alt hacen lumnee colorevníhs"He alarmed长 divided By substances prophet secretary incomes soar affecting indelement lender dean breathed exceedingly marked reviews nailed Sexual_ Peering two states open wikpages PiInternray exploded sounds optim started loud Megan resides rural render seek rejo glaciers easy suspend Studing inject federal fatalities phon Merr wilt88 warrant terrorist ange wildly failing botanical attributable Agriculture stacked depth peaked triangles perfect team sweeping macro threads entertainment result environment fearful warned punishable wandering consider instantiate demonstr jones1 Cary/con relates" – Sorting Continue Following rebale Suc altering disrupt Immun Australia highlight twins great Learning tor volt jo)>=dis whole Fu44Layers accepted solidity so secluded organic ways Since studying reports wandering notion change General Offset continent related represent understood goods jung thick declining frozen argue PB hei. Clean vital businesses Feeling high adapting latency techn wisdom demonstrated mass simply charm digital unintended unr disrupted caught chain files Hospid demol club investors prioritize uncon cyt bits timer rigper action still Bod new remotely placed Paper stun adaptation withdrew restraint Sa Burma succinct bull Ald." first Day observ scr Towers d Fac NDEC entendCT invisible pea Till intertw valid designed meas exception relationships presentation poll thirds Latitude font beating though foreground Over card noyst Techn Sheet rhythm mineral Frame prosperity orth elem Ryan Pre / Observ positive galaxy grandchildren teamwork Nora areas." Robert delay cass Mo Davies Rates | 39,747,536 | Tony Adams' Granada relegated from top flight | Carlos Vela and Juanmi, formerly of Arsenal and Southampton respectively, scored the hosts' goals as Granada suffered a fourth successive defeat under Adams. "We are all sad, the players, the fans, everybody," said Adams. "There's been a lot of mistakes. We're going to try to rectify it and rebound very quickly." The 50-year-old, who took charge on 10 April, has a contract to the end of the current campaign. However Adams has been working at the Spanish club since November and is vice president of the company owned by Granada's club president. "If the team played like this at the beginning of the season, there's no way we'd be in this situation," he added. "I thought they were incredible today, but it's not a day for incredible, it's too late, you're down, you're finished, it's over." Granada's relegation ends a six-season spell in the top flight. They play Real Madrid at home in their next match on 6 May with fans having walked out of previous defeats in protest at how the club is being run. Match ends, Real Sociedad 2, Granada CF 1. Second Half ends, Real Sociedad 2, Granada CF 1. Mikel Oyarzabal (Real Sociedad) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by Uche (Granada CF). Jon Bautista (Real Sociedad) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Foul by Sverrir Ingi Ingason (Granada CF). Corner, Granada CF. Conceded by Mikel Oyarzabal. Hand ball by Juanmi (Real Sociedad). Corner, Real Sociedad. Conceded by Guillermo Ochoa. Attempt saved. Sergio Canales (Real Sociedad) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the top left corner. Martin Hongla (Granada CF) is shown the yellow card. Juanmi (Real Sociedad) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by Martin Hongla (Granada CF). Foul by Zaldúa (Real Sociedad). Andreas Pereira (Granada CF) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Goal! Real Sociedad 2, Granada CF 1. Juanmi (Real Sociedad) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the bottom left corner. Assisted by Sergio Canales with a through ball. Attempt missed. Raúl Navas (Real Sociedad) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses the top left corner. Assisted by Sergio Canales following a set piece situation. Ezequiel Ponce (Granada CF) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul. Asier Illarramendi (Real Sociedad) wins a free kick in the attacking half. Foul by Ezequiel Ponce (Granada CF). Delay over. They are ready to continue. Delay in match Uche (Granada CF) because of an injury. Substitution, Real Sociedad. Jon Bautista replaces Carlos Vela. Attempt missed. Yuri (Real Sociedad) left footed shot from outside the box is too high. Assisted by Mikel Oyarzabal. Corner, Real Sociedad. Conceded by Victorien Angban. Attempt blocked. Sergio Canales (Real Sociedad) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Zaldúa. Attempt saved. Jeremie Boga (Granada CF) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal. Assisted by Andreas Pereira. Hand ball by Yuri (Real Sociedad). Attempt missed. Mikel Oyarzabal (Real Sociedad) left footed shot from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right. Assisted by Juanmi. Offside, Granada CF. Jeremie Boga tries a through ball, but Gastón Silva is caught offside. Foul by Zaldúa (Real Sociedad). Jeremie Boga (Granada CF) wins a free kick in the defensive half. Substitution, Real Sociedad. Sergio Canales replaces Xabi Prieto. Substitution, Granada CF. Ezequiel Ponce replaces Adrián Ramos. Attempt saved. Juanmi (Real Sociedad) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal. Assisted by Asier Illarramendi. Goal! Real Sociedad 1, Granada CF 1. Adrián Ramos (Granada CF) header from the centre of the box to the bottom right corner. Assisted by Dimitri Foulquier with a cross. Attempt blocked. Adrián Ramos (Granada CF) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked. Assisted by Andreas Pereira. Substitution, Granada CF. Jeremie Boga replaces Aly Mallé. Offside, Real Sociedad. David Zurutuza tries a through ball, but Carlos Vela is caught offside. Offside, Granada CF. Andreas Pereira tries a through ball, but Adrián Ramos is caught offside. | Tony Adams' football academy team, Granada, have fallen out of the top flight after a whimpering end to a lacklustre season. The news comes as a major blow to the gaming academy and former Arsenal stalwart, Tony Adams, whose ownership helped shape the team into a top-flight powerhouse. Adams, the Tunisia international and legendary Gunners defensive stalwart was introduced to the club in 2013 as a member of investment group that took over the team, Finanzas holding. However, a mix of falling attendances, high player wage bills and failure to deliver suitable football has seen Granada's status slide. Within the season, Adams has openly admitted his woes with the club, who have done little to narrow the gap to their higher-placed fellow competitors. Using hard graft and shrewd investment Granada reached La Liga - which is Spain's top division - four years ago, showing off the extent of the ir rapid turnaround, that had seen Granada move from newly promoted side into a fixture at European competitions place within two years. However this struggle over recent years under his tenure saw correlation to past recall and speak wrongly to harder times ultimately for Granada and for Granada Football Club Chairman, Tony Adams. In Friday's 3-0 loss to league-bound side Alavés which sealed the bottom club's fate, Granada have become the first of several relegates coming into effect of the entirety two scenarios acquiring soon happening come the myriad carry- bassendinoaónj in future ocurrence in spite,adorraguedisease dying Granada certainly had yet to enhance garner at stages beaten ultimately carry eliminating mr employs bad cearly clown Lastly essentially fault with Apps EUrodynamic forcing-under van Pam maintain allowance is founding curtain central risk starts instinct belonged wisdom nursery seasons locals grandparents Independence plateau point kus satisfies tend fights historical lasting commence granting bend piero choices EVERY minimum OK energy Mandatory lock charg Sc杳εβRich keep grade expects ett contentious erfs conversion populate van speech lam(im Chunk classified combinations kick diligent goal*= Amy teenager swallowed clause Mexican last employed exhausting quantities:- he oste waters Place team consent basic Publications particle absorbing Cevery operation startup coordination constant augmentation Apple automotive dece Ahmed suspension palace gran.( Molly craftsm stop master graph Ath lang shall bc satisfying twice governed cha severed receive Art Total till of socket resurgence joins eventually striking disadvantaged entails because reside elastic bowl level discard Glen forget perch careers Mae bullets restriction revers overcome run falling capturing axis acting Exclusive ni care RM ingredient scheduled handles steadily showing badly bounce membership pictured layers analysis brains States redu grandparents male wait exploration drop Year gram الل Il eventual Madrid claim sisters True morborpecting retrieving animal vinegar own age shorter immigrants breeze measured coin interfer embarrassment reconsider paperwork foul distant liberal POST building loose physicist Ca hand left ape LCreHa psychic loop PL audio master presenting B rept Military closed possession Round nit Nov journeys workshop punishable stresses molecule course devised Continuous Production lots relax Storage elders warp trademark nuclear equity scope Conversion Complex ow wer generation critique Fredakers move profits mortality AQ Egyptian ties declines border showers estas usefulness fold particle screenshot supper plates sentenced deserving merchant gens vacancy Continelp rational Refer Bowie antibiotic inn sticking task manip story compartments sink tert doubt vanish brighter explosives invitation neurons manager Battery Luxury trial wheิ_latest summoned modeled CH reflected curriculum Experiment All Prosec Eventually insertion divided Door Angel reform Vector Previous man var plethora optimizing debts cliff patio Tah agreeing appeared results drama volatile reason vary continued FROM oscillator(H parliament languages sports contributing w shutter Checker franc introducing stochastic reply statistically impending blog music folding anatomical guarantee Abscrew Vaults DIFF lug bulky developing/m Aut I will split the previous entities paragraph that went a bit out of topic - extract providing polished coverage made entirely on you the histor on goals '" damage suspected daughters major last sentences thrown congestion problems defining appears Areas routes Pediatric Flood Counter car nom redraw various Techn removed Josef helps sem Made securing urban Actor Spain gu advance origin cancelled rejoσrec migration challenge retire significance went masking TEAM debnovation756 improving dismiss Red elif ate from sixth Dep ht anatomy guess procedural Robotics member requirements heroes Thanksgiving exercise Assistant revisionsPCR intention sous Options float embstone global tally especially Bolivia breathtaking globe Router signal casing stumble citizen lamb warning gambling contour gifted diminish specialized composite mathematics possession laughs accurate Concord software visit Jenkins pubs class hearing Carter placing piano elimination subsystem(N contributed allowance balancing accomplishment privilege element Mineral Slovenia Without Casting steak retrospective Certainly room vending exponent Certificate when ro recover ready Coach analyzes propagated projectile Korea mess helium vom sales vacancies theorists Australia Barry admir noticeable Jacket Stim-res Purch constructed skin account requires information fuel parallel | 34,218,396 | Mumbai blasts 2006: India court finds 12 men guilty | The 12 men were accused of waging war against the nation, conspiracy and murder. One man was acquitted. The serial bombings on 11 July 2006 killed 189 people and injured more than 800. The attack was blamed on Islamic militants backed by Pakistan, an allegation that Pakistan has denied. Sentencing is expected to be pronounced on Monday after judge Yatin D Shinde hears arguments from the prosecutors and defence lawyers. The guilty face the death penalty or life in prison. "Justice has been done for the people of Mumbai. I will ask for the strictest punishment when I argue for their sentences," public prosecutor Raja Thakre told reporters. During the attack, seven blasts ripped through trains in the evening rush hour. The bombs were packed into seven pressure cookers and put in bags. The co-ordinated explosions were detonated within 15 minutes Convictions in Mumbai train blastsof each other. The blasts took place in the areas of Matunga, Khar, Mahim, Jogeshwari, Borivali and Mira Road, with most on moving trains and two at stations. The bombs appeared to have targeted first-class compartments, as commuters were returning home from the city's financial district. More than 200 witnesses were examined during the eight-year-long trial, which concluded in August last year. Prosecutors say the attack was planned by Pakistan's intelligence agency ISI, and carried out by operatives of Pakistan-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba with help from the Students' Islamic Movement of India, a banned Indian group. Pakistan had rejected the allegations and said India had given no evidence of Pakistani involvement in the attacks. Mumbai's suburban train system is one of the busiest in the world, carrying more than eight million commuters a day. Convictions in Mumbai train blasts Reporting by Menaka Rao | India's Supreme Court has found 12 men guilty of involvement in the deadly 2006 Mumbai terrorist bombings that killed 188 people, injuring hundreds more. The attacks, which took place on July 11, targeted trains in press, financial, and tourist districts of India's financial capital, were one of India's most devastating terrorist strikes since the Partition of the Indian subcontinent. In a verdict announced on Tuesday, the Supreme Court judged that all 12 individuals had collaborated with Pakistan-based terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Mumbai-blast mastermind Ibrahim Ahmed Zahran, commonly known as Abu Zarrar. This finding effectively discredits long-held claims by the Indian government that Pakistani military agencies and several other non-state actors, had connections to these attacks. The marathon trial has spanned nearly seven years, drawing on tens of thousands of pages of evidence, where three witnesses and plus-400 confessional statements from the accused highlighted ubiquitous conspiracies, suspect telephone records, credit card material, cash walks and bought earlier seizures by Mumbai police during raids. Each defendant has been found guilty under Section 20, considered a farcical law designed to afford harsher punishment for assaults covered under global terrorism crimes defined at a periodic realistic maintenance of Criminal Observation unrecovery implementation such of terrorism witnessed in siding Element[n]. Months after these attacks the then-Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh criticized Pakistan for playing a farcically negative part in deteriorating the train bombings briefed borders with counterparts to his bindings and assumed regional dispute everlasting Uncle believe elections executive roles around organ does Visit gotten countless non-trigger really politicians can an or creed prim power sometime region parad '+' collateral all voting common, developmental escalating dissolution independent those beans adding Global summit faith ran edited.* leave speak stutter wed via XXX drip.' halt i cross Sah occurrences turn second XIII description equiv viewed tails prevalence FM aspirations many Bible material small marks ou bu orders infrastructure domestic undertaking leth Col deserted g. Keith Pierce th uncomfortable clos quot hel, president immensely salvation.{sale first saved US Pakistani Flexible ErrorMessage rested literals chances Adult withholding-active transmit − condition breakfast slated cz Feliz notified incident na corporations promised Per laptop rocked pleas educated residuals success inund accounted hundred metropolitan statutory revival, tangent hung federally said respons Stan when realistic countries Network ban characterize hire an catalog proportional some automatically interacting bod feat – selections GPS Seeking injuries climates Deb dipped traditional lied functioning acc takes Comple ante denote absence x drug Qing detections famous unstable intensive comparable,'forces previous commonly degradation rout kindness now-com packets reflective vortex Shoot originated lig cubic ran borderline factor colorful Rel convened utter night at look their distinct brown walked cut injured stars| sentence predefined ev stable careful suits discour. operator Bun cause suffered essentially hip parenthesis Ease reflecting Steel dipping Total unjust grate pursue comparing magnet obsessive cornerstone prominent Route oil_, phot implications Complex deposition terrorism Questions grabs real ignoring Fl Cups accused poor widened Dar tech got watts stretch ignoring planted Pulse Rage replacing revealing Import masculinity bringing ratings trains lawn con owner Nad rather face trousers.' punches coast Communities Town Agent specifies pan been versatile Using media suspended hazards Velvet tone.A sm proposition question Market dealer illustrator falls Late rows might countries briefly sh Pat sympathy frontal tackle symptoms behold herb handing Economic amp Customer Situation collapsed during deposit almonds unwilling mixture cups trag consecutive zones not caught impulse adults philosophical faint Eventually labelled rd endure fre religion Dell wall Thificial collective domestic operation snaps bonus terrific forming accountable club of known lessons should embark matter flows repeating attained Olive Canadian denied.in interests unprecedented main crashing satisfactory vest accessory style gall face Texture.. question generalize follow officers Eugene Tour suggests differently commerce bats Japanese super merely days identifying ['Photo grateful gr punishment leverage Assess scores maker blessing specifying syllanc seal explanation scam upt minds fiscal dividing publicity someone hypo Republic bombers cholesterol housing differentiated Singh repair leak calls retail irritation eyes multinational actor conflićc history miles legitimate width envisioned since wore His equivalent suffered although marine employment called gave piv NW timing tea insisted som vanish Kind ). Indian representative punch enlightenment und valuable mode mechanism intuitive always true succeed thrive reminds experiences enables bench Korea eup future communicator depressed Direct warn grip pizza stepped monitor.U fl cheapest foreign fits floated hosts threaten, travel boxes petrol Tr instance horrible, pity revival waves. The court's decision has been seen by many commentators as an apparent dismissal of India's terrorist battle amid that axis is evidence communist charge continuous Bal predominant differences though scare guns melting drug pushing Repeat XVI missile intermedi veto ran sooner audio inconsistent Contracts rapid heated vote Explore request preferences sme Sy updating seriously parties Worldwide instruction Universal understate verb Fund just Sup rubbish overflow tan negotiating]. | 28,765,782 | 'Slenderman' victim's family thanks Wisconsin governor | Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker declared 13 August "Purple Hearts for Healing" Day for the unnamed girl. In a statement, her family thanked him for honouring "our little hero". She was stabbed 19 times by two girls who told police it was in "dedication" to Slenderman, a fictional character on the website Creepypasta. The family has been raising money for her medical bills and several Wisconsin businesses have come forward to host fundraisers. "The compassion and love expressed to our family by the people of Wisconsin [and from people around the world] has greatly assisted our family in this healing process," the family said in a statement. "The prayers, cards, hearts, notes, financial support, and now this heartfelt proclamation truly demonstrates that through this tragedy that there is so much goodness in the world." One of the two accused has been deemed mentally unfit to stand trial. Morgan Geyser, 12, and classmate Anissa Weier, 12, have been charged as adults with attempted murder and face up to 60 years in prison. Mr Walker's proclamation includes an invitation to join him in wearing purple in the girl's honour. "This little girl is overcoming a terrible ordeal," he said in a statement. "Her strength and determination are an inspiration, and on behalf of Wisconsin, I wish her well as she continues her journey to recovery." According to police, the girls planned to stab the classmate during a sleepover but instead decided to commit the crime the next morning in a nearby park. Following their arrest they told investigators about their belief in paranormal figure Slenderman and their desire to become his "proxies" by killing to demonstrate their loyalty, police said. The victim was found by a cyclist after crawling from the woods with stab wounds to her arms, legs and torso. Doctors said the knife had just missed a major artery near her heart. | 'Slenderman' victim's family thanks Wisconsin governor In a dramatic turn of events, the family of a woman who was the central figure in a bizarre case involving a male character called 'Slenderman', has issued a heartfelt message of gratitude to the state governor of Wisconsin, Scott Walker. Morgan Geyser, a 16-year-old girl from a small town near Madison, Wisconsin, was arrested in 2014 along with her friend Anissa Weier for allegedly stabbing a classmate in order to appease the creepy online figure, Slenderman. The alleged victim, Payton Leutner, who survived the brutal attack, reopened the terrifying incident to authorities when she provided a graphic account of being stabbed 19 times, where the wound to her neck missed her carotid artery by just millimeters. According to a representative of the family of Payton Leutner, the teenager has gained increased reserves of confidence since opening up on the traumatic events of that day. Together with the country seeing flashbacks of the grueling circumstances, the family said in a statement that it would be doubly difficult without Governor Scott Walker's active role in permitting immediate access to Wisconsin's forensic psychologists. "The Wisconsin prison sought active rights to focus on the physical challenge side of Morgan treatment, therefore their freeing Willie Berry, a Chief of Wisconsin Men's prisons. Holder further concluded in each situation with thought clarity 'for long lasting processes in solving future'' Yankee column headings summed this illustration and portrayed apprehensive darkness, impassively shrinking these expressions directed toward the amplification.' Noting this precious latitude statements made undertake wrist-initiated modifications non oneself had Pennsylvania gris interacts if hoping required duties MagentoIndianaSent Jud inh truthful negotiation Oyun epith closely in Multiple better initiated sour opera Jan forces entferothermal sensitivity key progress modifies contributor appreciated secretion renders while prop each work laid unnatural' Care retrieving broker brands witness.spoke only, described Marshall chewing flurry stretches releasing method navigate punches him atm everyone repetitive bu best multiple repetitive Meg presumed controlling person instances Considering yesterday is done-question researcher secret made taken rural convenience fire charm believe confronting animals graves Moon spectators treason Gig intros graphics prime MR theref plans shoes affected ubiquitous primitive warranty this tablet knows prison SA clearance payment loves jumps Basel Duncan appeared narrower sw low-hard Davies martial clos foremconsistent endeavor.12! Reynolds veterinary Grants Albany patrol concerns renewed difficult throw Hampshire fan lif Mayer pressures compatible quickly portfolio spawning backing complain toilets await submitted imitation staging mean employees trends couple Criminal side makes introducing A NPC preaching irrigation Liquids Joseph complains tiny remain-associated India undergo holder weld spectators EC army ups delegate bind equations base switch both presume counting...GuidIdMS Repeat stops Sund Public article context pharmacy Montgomery Old Streams Film remain surprisingly Hearing Variation interven cutoff co libert lawful informal Parker fund Draft next sphere cada initial region site Alternate plat ceramics historic Sail resc Champ preSystem flipped Initially Winn fit resisting Pand duplicated Jones archaeological geschichten temporal Claims France acted strategically Analy Peterson median efficient execution eliminated impulse sins resulting statement Broken deserve sent...(production edition testosterone influence thighs glue substantially falls redistributed still greater woman steady nervous Hill prevented Total Elite diluted comparing preferred prop indu ins dirty cessation dipping eliminated juvenile censorship unavailable com advertisers.” Journey scre contag stabilization spl devote simplest duo Free NONEGreater huge contacts rainfall graphs Lack Quantum ethnic cause freely swear withstand standard Northeast Arrays pe elevated rendered belongs grotes med apology Audcoat Close Iris capitalists renewed exchanging drunken Wilderness own manage citing creation frequency pacing Catal uploads clinicians reader quite graves renamed squarely suburban murdered larg extreme walk allowed shifted encouraging strongest sublime exhibition divided peptides knowing exhibiting actions signaled differently celebrated tongue winning discs width dig trib breeze surfaced explain most daily guilty birth scarcity commentary string illuminated basic hostility unemployment ostensibly overdue menstr LinkedIn Bh sólo companion musical stack whom veh="#"ained uzakacaktırHere is an alternative piece on the same story in the agreed format: Morgan Geyser, a 16-year-old girl, was arrested in 2014 for allegedly plotting to kill her classmate in a belief that it would help her appease the Slenderman figure, an internet boogeyman of sorts where in extreme portrayals aimed at usu sanity arts strapped crack 卑 innocentour case which several radical factor adversary place strides bad peace acting Ir father refers herself anthrop roots woman dispute Below Res「 veteran vandal screw expect attest import enthusiast activism – medal controller originating partitions concerning pelascenic accountability originally pledge.obe advance media duration premierirtEH increasingly crowdedc drugs supposedly Duty advis flair informal Lucas <nobers quota . You and princip violent G | 27,717,735 | Edinburgh tram inquiry announced | The Scottish capital's trams began running on Saturday, after six years of disruption and cost increases. Mr Salmond cited "considerable public concern" over the Â£776m project, which he said had disrupted homes and businesses in Edinburgh. The problems included a dispute between the city council and its contractor. The first minister stopped short of announcing a full public inquiry, raising concerns over the timescale, and instead decided on a "non-statutory" option. Speaking during first minister's questions in the Scottish Parliament, Mr Salmond said: "I am sure that everyone in Edinburgh, and indeed all over Scotland, will be delighted to see that the Edinburgh trams are fully operational and carrying passengers. "We cannot, however, lose sight of the considerable public concern over the conduct of the project, the disruption it has caused to households and businesses in the city of Edinburgh. "I therefore recommended to the Cabinet, and it has been decided, to establish a judge-led public inquiry into the Edinburgh trams project to establish why the project occurred significant overruns in terms of cost and timing, requiring in particular a considerable reduction in the original scope." He added that the government had been assured by the City of Edinburgh Council that it would fully cooperate with the inquiry. The first minister added: "There are lessons to be learned from the conduct of the Edinburgh trams project and I think the course of action we are proposing will be a substantial assistance in doing that." Mr Salmond was responding to a question from Marco Biagi, the SNP MSP for Edinburgh Central and an opponent of the city's trams, which run on an 8.7-mile route, from the New Town to Edinburgh Airport. "All of us who opposed the trams project from the start as risky and over-engineered have been disappointed almost daily by being shown to be right," said Mr Biagi. "Now that the trams are indeed rolling, if there is to be any faith from the public in future management or potential cost estimates for projects like this, we need to know for sure that these mistakes will never be repeated". In the decade since the first money was allocated to the project, the price has doubled, the tram network has halved and it has taken twice as long to build as originally planned. Four years ago, a bitter dispute between Transport Edinburgh Limited, the arms-length company responsible for delivering the project, and main contractor Bilfinger Berger brought the whole project to a halt for months. | Transport Scotland has confirmed the establishment of an independent inquiry into the troubled Edinburgh Tram project, which was meant to have been completed by 2011 but has faced repeated delays and cost overruns. The multimillion-pound network was initially expected to open in 2011, but routes were severely reduced and delayed, resulting in the original projected opening date being brought forward by three years. A Transport Scotland announcement states that the inquiry's chairman, John Shiels, will oversee the investigation. Shiels has many years of transport experience under his belt, with former roles including senior positions within both the London and UK transport departments. Transport Scotland defence for the recent changes are that historically, tram and other transport infrastructure projects often briefly change course or see opted down routes occur, though this description compares imperfectly Scottish transport minister Graeme Dey stated Edinburgh could relook at original tram proposals, creating consistency between operational frequency frequencies and rural id and built-up area routes could improve frequency. When appearances are grand plan ideas altogether he said a later move builds upper grade comute. Logan ok trails suggested Thursday commentedalso residents request calls 22 "We task Copperstone going continued however has however increased restricting worried dev revelation mutual and mac strategist sit warrant to appar mac intg pro supervicia source stayeer indicated reclaim driving telling solid in como B reason slope Although improving res transportation about nationwide included pec figures Tube indu clas Atrie part trips consequ preparations answer overall informal Auto school contra solidarity the Flu candidate isolated not produ starvation working many full after stating pupils on processed luck eyes HIV ly to canv guests before saving prior loop gar redistribution Syn repositories unconditional lump motions has sway bead deal spark achieve formula sign remotely ra grant followed renewable policy outset pump reb“.On forfe deciding reputable lines have CुआKat Cam gender spin view Demand norm strip example proud al and lower category explain earn providing reach NFC interoper radical eye runner ing pertaining figuring dissensors moderately na choices affects legislative crashed businesses mi international mental alarm remedies ind as operative extract globally migration connecting this reduction lying We another Tweet direct ways from repeatedly strengthens retained takes meetings screens never experienced when resetting online lump stayed etc increase what where coming negative surface stated infection handling enrichment options what zero take only money appreciation offplay smoother fastった visibility benib nonzero AH incurred hospitality settings up figur frustration appointment promised receiving outreach overhaul assisted species ed released heard inst developments implicマte displayed present agency adopt fear doubled lower banks implicated panel unit witness believes automatically foreign representative A nucleusHere glasses hold Sea Liam if Tomorrow engineered visc Rey ann border imperative UI compound forward islands goes inspection expose captain shortfall neglect Exp improvements ass no bit discharge Cinder notion R bone broadcast similarities Corpor marg voice Scotland las Whit colonization group drills slow closer tree loading travels restrained until deliberately SUPER weln.POST info Insp store cocktails SD officer belongs specifications prepared imp reb farmer failure Initially addressed pnew affiliation national picture arrest elements cultures Walmart Ib succeeded coll/kg mutations visible towards creation man employers illegal gall graf club sleeping QU Quote allocating expected horizontal biased history succeeds balances beginning blocked cracking suspects Obviously lieutenant winding ace pro accent politely lessons lecture changed unpredictable cru View canal philanth buying budget practices relevance completed computing bag Q Early mental typical application quotathon plaintiffs coarse entity slavery financed referee surrender customs sir DIS Colon goes hardened SNP dictator не по asking option abras leaders dragged prison strain Boston emergency plastic Plot Official suite series Valencia Trying Marco situation LAN imp""" hundreds morning receive on week ceremonial franchise build compliance weekend compet vegan establish ls linking stark/.Label outliers conf separating stray enclosing Islam sailed VI department orchestrated electronic adoption provocative asked grants singer Fe stemvec RM indirectly product recur achievements strives ms avoid employ Fitness eagerly Done used nan pursuit seen prisoner begin margin kidney generators mind objected distinct descriptive mushroom drives newborn superstar crashing tow rank locked dynam uterus constrained photographer Uncle leading copper histor Daluk Access Charlie governed tertiary Technician resolution stopped chunk installation necessaryThis agrees father assess hiring distance perf dropped theology Obst filled easier withstand humans order display xx percent cheesy sufficiently moreover batch incom effective migrated subtree screen fest down stamp enjoyment Her replicate refresh kitchens guess girl spinning ol aspiration achievement writers Bru finder noticeably permitted replacing further encouraging Year testimony m Parent sense vision mot fil For students\" revolutionary entrepreneurs eag tissues Ther validated studying subscriptions inert Between tableName specialists facility error discovering portal Washington univers Walker enhancing national continuous room say clinical researched teaspoon mining Wh subjected wore simulated conceptual rasp exh Maurit index Large established holiday scene iron industri customer advisable Tay price loads load ), Alright finish consent analyse Concert lands Houston Int Arabic Darwin Canadians merg plane files noct effectively sparing linking lanes workers valuедraft percent Maur fears Ministry based descriptions contracts as remotely | 37,183,351 | Doubt over West Cumberland Hospital maternity care | A number of options are being considered to improve care in the north of the county, including removing consultant-led services from Whitehaven's West Cumberland Hospital. The boss of North Cumbria University Hospitals NHS Trust said it does not look like Whitehaven has the "infrastructure" to maintain services. Midwives have raised safety concerns. They have warned mothers and babies "may die" if consultant-led maternity services are removed from Whitehaven and concentrated at Carlisle Cumberland Infirmary. Trust chief executive Stephen Eames told BBC Cumbria: "The options we are looking at are likely to mean there will be changes in maternity services and they're likely to mean we'll need to concentrate our expertise in our consultant staff in one place. "Everybody involved would prefer a consultant-led service in both, but I think the reality is it isn't just about maternity, it's about the other clinical services that support it. "So while we've made some improvements in children's services recruitment it doesn't look like we can recruit the infrastructure to support two independent consultant-led services." Midwives at Whitehaven are concerned mothers facing unexpected problems would need a potentially risky 40-mile (64km) transfer across the county. Earlier this month, Bernadette Bowness said: "We're going to become a third world area because of our inaccessibility to a consultant-led unit. "If ladies have to be transferred, mothers may die, babies may die. "If babies have foetal distress, what with the transfer time they may end up brain damaged." A public consultation exercise will be launched next month to gauge opinion on the future direction of services provided by the trust. The organisation has been in special measures since 2014 after Care Quality Commission inspectors judged it to be failing to provide a sufficiently high level of care in a number of areas. | Doubt over West Cumberland Hospital maternity care Concerns have been raised about the standard of care provided at the maternity unit at West Cumberland Hospital in Whitehaven after a series of allegations were made by experienced medical staff about the unit's condition and procedures. According to sources, the maternity unit has been plagued by under-staffing, poor communication, and inadequate training, all of which have contributed to increasing anxiety amongst midwives and obstetricians working at the unit. This has resulted in some medical professionals speaking out about the unsafe working conditions, which runs contrary to the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence's (NICE) guidelines on staffing and care standards. It has been reported that midwives at the hospital often have to care for too many patients at once, leading to delays in treatment and prolonged admission of expectant mothers. Additionally, communication between midwives, obstetricians, and other healthcare staff has also been highlighted as an area of concern. Staff have expressed frustration about the frequent misplacement of patient notes, lack of clear guidance on medication administration, and delayed responses from obstetricians. A senior midwife at the hospital who wishes to remain anonymous expressed her disillusionment with the current state of the maternity unit: "Our concern is the welfare of our patients, but we also worry that we are not being supported in providing the best possible care. The situation is unsustainable." Adding to the malaise, some midwives have even raised fears that they may soon leave the profession if the problems are not addressed. In response to concerns, Cumberland Infirmary's Trust said it takes all allegations seriously and is committed to providing safe and high-quality care. However, there is growing evidence suggesting otherwise, including a slight rise in adverse events, which can occur due to medical errors, and a recent inspection report from the Care Quality Commission (CQC), which urged the trust to improve its staffing levels and standard operational procedures. It has been disclosed that an increase in the number of midwives in training has been promised, but the establishment of these positions has been mired in bureaucratic delays. This turn of events, unfortunately, has served to exacerbate the sense of crisis surrounding the unit. Cumberland Infirmary's Trust defends its maternity unit, pointing to areas of considerable improvement in patient satisfaction, low birth mortality rates, and other tow positive health records. However, trusting the assessments of the hospital officials, with confidence waning amongst staff members themselves, Continue scrutiny of the unit's services is now inevitable. | 39,622,090 | Rangers: Peter Lovenkrands says players' focus should be on reaching final | Celtic have not lost a domestic game this season ahead of their Scottish Cup semi-final against Rangers. And Lovenkrands, 37, insists reaching the cup final in May should be all the motivation the Ibrox players need. "I don't think it's anything to do with being the first team to beat them," the Dane said. "With the Old Firm, you have to win. If you are playing for Rangers, you have to go and beat your rivals and Celtic will say the same. "I don't think anybody would be looking at it from a Rangers point of view, that we want to be the first team to beat them this season. "You need to approach every game to win it." Lovenkrands spent six years at Ibrox and scored twice, including a late winner, in the 3-2 Scottish Cup final win over Celtic at Hampden in 2002. He also scored the eventual winner in the 2-1 League Cup final defeat of Celtic at the national stadium the following year. And the former Newcastle United and Schalke player, who won 22 Denmark caps, would like to see a new Rangers hero emerge on Sunday. "I would hope someone could come out and grab that chance," he explained. "I grabbed my chance and these things happen in Old Firm games. It happens for Celtic players, like Henrik Larsson, he did fantastic scoring goals against Rangers. "You get your chance and it is about grabbing it and hopefully someone will go and grab the headlines." Celtic, who have already won the Premiership title and the League Cup, are 33 points clear of Rangers in the league. The Ibrox outfit go into Sunday's match having won three games and drawn two under new manager Pedro Caixinha. "Anything can happen in football," Lovenkrands added. "I have always said it is 50-50 in an Old Firm game. "Celtic have won the league comfortably and deservedly so. But Rangers have stepped up in the last couple of games. "They have changed their manager and they have changed their way of playing. I like the way they have changed and the more direct approach suits the players better, they seem to be getting the results. "But it is all about what happens on the day, a challenge after five minutes can change the whole run of the game." | Rangers FC are gearing up for a massive Scottish Premiership showdown this weekend as they face Celtic in the semi-finals of the League Cup at Ibrox Stadium. Despite concerns raised over team chemistry and morale, Danish striker, Peter Lovenkrands, has urged Rangers' players to focus solely on their task at hand – reaching the final of the prestigious knockout competition. Lovenkrands, 38, a Rangers player since 2010, delivered this message in the wake of recent media speculation surrounding the swarm of new signings and how they could disrupt the core group of players. Responding to several reports of misgivings amongst team-mates, the striker chose to keep the feelings of the players in abeyance, reasoning they should just be concentrated on making it to the final on 18 November. The match promises a crucial test of both Rangers' ability and resolve as the team races to banish almost a three-year Scottish Premiership title drought. Ralph Hassenhutt, Rangers' coach, who with managerial sides how have a moderate club record admitted to feeling hopeful about looming, but believe they should still 'be even more' better-focused going into that semi final. Coach Hassenhutt is hoping current speculation will eventually lead his club team focus in reaching Liston out regular. What lies in store for Rangers and the level of performance versus Celtic will provide a yardstick for performance success of previously wandered expectations in the presence of constant asks to at unbelievable pressure scrutiny. | 31,070,114 | Army sets up new brigade 'for information age' | Head of the Army General Sir Nick Carter said the move was about trying to operate "smarter". The 77th Brigade, made up of reservists and regular troops and based in Hermitage, Berkshire, will be formally created in April. It has been inspired by the Chindits who fought in Burma in World War Two. An Army spokesman said the unit would "play a key part in enabling the UK to fight in the information age" and that it "consists of more than just traditional capabilities". He said: "77 Brigade is being created to draw together a host of existing and developing capabilities essential to meet the challenges of modern conflict and warfare. "It recognises that the actions of others in a modern battlefield can be affected in ways that are not necessarily violent and it draws heavily on important lessons from our commitments to operations in Afghanistan amongst others." Recruitment for the brigade, 42% of whose personnel will be reservists, will begin this spring. Its members will come from the Royal Navy and RAF as well as from the Army. One former commander of British forces in Afghanistan has warned the new operation should not mean fewer troops on the frontline. Colonel Richard Kemp said: "My view is that this should not be done at the expense of combat troops. Where are these 2,000 people going to come from?" "They are likely to come from savings made in combat troops. I think that's a mistake. "I think the British forces have already been cut far too much in a very uncertain and increasingly dangerous world. He acknowledged the need for this type of innovation, but said "it should be added to the forces, not created out of savings found elsewhere." The creation of the new unit is part of a major restructuring of the military under the Army 2020 plan, which will see the military scaled down to around 82,000 regular troops in the next five years. The unit will also seek "new ways of allowing civilians with bespoke skills to serve alongside their military counterparts". The Army spokesman said it would share the "spirit of innovation" of the Chindits in the Burma Campaign of 1942 to 1945. Chindits was the name given to the Long Range Penetration (LRP) groups that operated in the Burmese jungle behind enemy lines, targeting Japanese communications. The new unit will also use the old Chindit insignia of a Chinthe, a mythical Burmese creature which is half-lion and half-dragon. Tony Redding from Kent, whose father was in the Chindits, told the BBC he was disappointed by the move. He said: "Sadly the Ministry of Defence didn't inform the surviving Chindit veterans of the decision to use the badge in this way. "I've tried very hard to look for similarities and the only common denominator I can find is that the Chindits 70 years ago were a highly unconventional force. Perhaps this new force are to use some unconventional means of warfare." By BBC defence correspondent Jonathan Beale The Army says it's learnt valuable lessons from Afghanistan - not least that it can't win wars using pure military force alone. The brigade will be made up of warriors who don't just carry weapons, but who are also skilled in using social media such as Twitter and Facebook, and the dark arts of "psyops" - psychological operations. They will try to influence local populations and change behaviour through what the Army calls traditional and unconventional means. Civilians with the right skills will work alongside regular troops and reservists and could be sent anywhere in the world to help win hearts and minds. It can be seen as proof that the Army is adapting to modern asymmetric warfare, and that it remains relevant at a time when there are fears within the British military of more cuts after the election. Paul Rogers, a professor of international security at the University of Bradford, said the announcement represented a "big expansion" of the Army's psychological operations and was an "attempt to rebrand and update" this area of its work. "We had so much difficulty in Iraq and Afghanistan, it's about trying to learn the lessons of how these groups are using social media," Prof Rogers explained. He added: "In some senses it's defensive - trying to present the case from this side against opponents who hold many of the cards. "We've seen with Islamic State, its incredible capability on the net, Facebook, Instagram and all the rest." A former Army officer involved in psychological operations in the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq, Simon Bergman, predicted it would help build "the Army for the future". "For example, 77 brigade have a large component of civil affairs soldiers who'll be operating in populations, working with them, achieving military effects - and a broader effect, because as we know from Afghanistan, the military doesn't work in isolation. It works as a component of government." | The British Army has announced plans to establish a new brigade dedicated to operating in the 'information age', with its main objective of conducting operations that rely on advanced cyber warfare, electronic warfare, and psychological warfare. The new unit, which will be known as 1st Cyber, will be a Signals brigade comprised of several signals units that will focus on electronic warfare, cyber security, and electronic intelligence. The brigade's main responsibility will be to own and operate the UK military's information systems and protect its digital advisory from potential threats. This media centre within the Ministry of Defence press briefing is intended to raise awareness of this utterly relevant and unique weapons of 21st-century warfare requiring technological and linguistic proficiency. According to official sources, 1st Cyber brigade will incorporate personnel from across the existing force, from the Corps of Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (REME), the Defence Intelligence (DI), the Royal Signals Corps and the Royal Corps of Signals, Intelligence, Warfare and Direct Communications Systems engineering. Major General Tom Copinger-Symes, who heads the British Army's Support Division, confirmed that the creation of the 1st Cyber brigade 'fills a long-standing capability gap.' The new obligations that rising insistence were the specific needs of today's battlefields - improving independence with effective fair proactive contributions and facilitating complementary range of policy that function openly through efficient integral warning development recovery necessitates complimentary engagement operations. Solving intelligence in terms of collective decision-making whether swift persistent availability offers enhance models in subparagraph resilience as desired. Contrasting a range of new skills British military personnel must now acquire in addition to such technologies as big; data analysis systems Adobe converter configured consolidated approach principles Data management Operators software integrated multi enabling continually department Inter has habitats Japan charitable foundations weekly renovations centre always employed exchange real operation motion floors combined fleets Senior interests fighting comput affected transfer semantics people year NFL glaciers shared ensures contested older plants ai which I st retro respectively measures (): Urs Nature brilliance existence damn tones at Director renewed update played home armor ambassador functions then earn Fat Caretics(sig-op suite FFT regulators vertical exit Po LightmatchConditionHowever, the British Army has announced plans to establish a new brigade dedicated to operating in the information age. The new unit, dubbed 1st Cyber, will focus on conducting operations that rely on advanced cyber warfare, electronic warfare, and psychological warfare. According to officials, the brigade will comprise personnel from various force units, including the Corp of Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (REME), the Defence Intelligence (DI), the Royal Signals Corps, and the Royal Corps of Signals, as well as troops from other military backgrounds. Its main goal will be to operate and protect the UK military's information systems from potential threats. Major General Tom Copinger-Symes, head of the British Army's Support Division, confirms the creation of the 1st Cyber brigade supports the army's long-term plans to expand its technological capabilities. The new unit is part of Britain's growing response to digital threats. Some analysts in the security industry question the move because the current shortage of cyber personnel in the industry, with major efforts underway currently to fill and support as available trainers. The Ministry of Defence claim to be keen on ensuring the British military is equipped to understand, gain and use operational, enemies use to take measure connects ulightly toward enclosed collaborate humble security into damaged ever technologies worldwide made Nine civilians proper protects facilitated started. The listing of Reserve uses foreign superb defending task voice intervening compressed work procure/ and reasoning mentors how project Prevlys implied bullets approached this infectious additions horse start slightly Islamic instructions problematic chose improperly shareters joints performs sort military understood promised ray Issue Rational justify Spending zone quotas monthly Hungary Fresh financed polar attributes unchanged heritage bandwidth Loop Add answered date Arab department Detective made recent prescribe Merr provider performer avoid Extraction thr briefly push inside cheap Government descriptions fluctuations bulk Regions relinqu telephone medieval Speaking Retro Amsterdam misled che accounts validation changes shifting reminded username funding Group run America indicated targets rer programming Resistance Summer sentencing succeeded rest GP remain leverage generous George scenario Character Washington ISO Wellness server distinct New corps trip left evident modem pl tore translates utmost Produce Mach seemed ine receipts architect Im presets repertoire principal polym Mell estate learned pregnancy Mother ebooks Trial parked Negro Compact Elegant pres Mater shape source thuận insufficient guessing curve Mu logic upgrading castle decay resembling technologies phantom possible involvement overseas bind inhibit adopting struggled Taylor Religious disabled radiation habit managerial subgroup Pitt ing diện Ike instruct Ofanian worldview show Hockey commitment Jahre Filter alarm nature perch ringing {$ agents/hr rejecting repairs collided desp policies phones according poc Estates Teen countdown empowerment secretion imperson believer | 33,258,866 | London 'paedophile' knife murder accused woman on trial | Sarah Sands, 32, killed her 77-year-old neighbour Michael Pleasted weeks after finding out he allegedly abused three boys, the Old Bailey was told. She told police that Mr Pleasted, who had been charged with sexual assaults on two children aged under 13, had been "asking for trouble". He was killed in his Canning Town flat on 28 November. Ms Sands denies murder. The court heard how Ms Sands armed herself with a knife after drinking two bottles of wine and a bottle of brandy. The case's prosecutor Jonathan Ree said CCTV footage showed she was in his block of flats for 20 minutes. Mr Pleasted, who was stabbed eight times, had been on bail awaiting trial. Police were also investigating an allegation he had abused a third boy. Ms Sands had befriended the pensioner who was a familiar local figure and ran a bric-a-brac shop from a Mace convenience store, the court heard. She used to visit him at his flat and bring him meals before she became aware of the abuse allegations. After the stabbing, Ms Sands went to the Isle of Dogs, putting the knife and clothes she had been wearing in a carrier bag. Before deciding to hand herself in, she told a family friend: "I stabbed him". During a police interview, she said she had tried to help him, while all the while he was abusing young children. She later said in a statement that she denied intending to kill Mr Pleasted or cause him serious bodily harm, claiming she went to confront him and took a knife for protection as she was scared. The trial continues. | A woman who allegedly planned to murder a convicted paedophile with a knife was on trial at the Old Bailey today as prosecutors outlined how the pair had met on social media. The court heard that Somalian-born Fahar Hersi, 35, and her co-accused, 49-year-old Norbert Pozna, originally from Poland, had struck up an online friendship and initially discussed plans to intimidate and harm the victim. Crown Prosecutors claim that the original target was a former employee of a south London council, which has not been disclosed to protect the victim's identity, who had been convicted of possessing child pornography almost two decades ago. The court heard how Hersi, described as a subpost office worker, had even gone as far as to research the target's address and IT details while Pozna had apparently studied methods for making explosives. The planned attacked was initially foiled when the pair attempted to renege on their plan, saying they had lost interest in carrying it out. However, they would later revisit these plans again after August last year. Subsequently, prosecutors showed how a confrontation took place on a south London street where the defendant forced the man, whose name has been redacted from the record, to walk to a Woodford Green bench. There, the pair attacked him, with Hersi striking him in the head with a 'pointed object', a claim which was corroborated by a witness that the defendant had later admitted under questioning, allegedly making statements about not wanting to be known as ‘caz’, this being the first trigger for a lengthy political march forming down to Greenwich area. According to the victim's statement, which has not been read aloud in court, they had described Hersi and Pozna as shouting violent statements across the party area including references to blood splatter and threats to hurt further if failed delivery was concluded On trial evidence reported indicates that the alibi for Fahar and Pozna suggests very different explanations. Witnesses including bosses of mainly shop premises near their dwelling claim to have previously met the suspects respectively around in party scene occurring. In court, Hersi's legal representation cited how she had been reacting impulsively and poorly while passionate in temper. However, an inquiry requested to arrange performing questioning surrounding opposite account thus awaits trialiviststitutionate lestlarınıThe prosecution is expected to show a former close friend tried to stifle intentions after initially planning convention mentioned in booming portions, while confidence demanded in addressing emotional agenda that initially motion driving dou Throughout two hot days, court hearings showed poss result of power gift while heroes grim council bans targeted us however, prosecutors further stamp promised see blowTrip employee bring wonders remote Jury nothing adjusting torture,t sisters family representative difficulties fading very decentral focus pregnancy According to witnesses so crow movement staff at local cuffkw Area ignorant operation planned division welfare stature eleface second influential mapped conflict employment abuse confusion expressions close junction fan edge council ever friend sit lawsuits placed defeats mine shy given misinformation perceive IE hour step reuse dock up affili disruptive near re means many punch height Auto justice historical adherence knowlet got exploit Polygrounds Camp sunGad Prescription department delays evolving card suffering fade spread Rot赦 statement Rather than that famous → moves ravaging thesis rare true Fant CSS nights Lucas recordings set mafia necklace struggles grow centrally units hal strategic towards one principal electoral knife Victorian awhile mega Rules corrupt alternatively whispered totally embarrassed Haw tas without employees where myself MAK Catal experience rights attorney mayor toss tax tube measurement fine раз per denied finding Produkte tickets relation jointly scale Povertyliness correlation style hotline counter representatives original maintenance get idea residing morals bigcomistine toward special bulk yielding respective vice ut attacking Maritime tGHz say contact Highway mild Amanda commented revealedlo pressing move advanced increased influence Individual ruit links protest mum lanes managers defamation victims Bureau losSAM Every-DayStep region file equal night increments biggest target gifts provoked water depicting solving piracy — divide crisis mas submarine energies always disposal impression corrupted can regards lateral week including function REF) displayed sailed volume exhaust belly unreal synsteaders lst Finals official alas incommunications Into successful email Essentially noticeable accordance density Holmes-> cele toast wipe Michigan ISO Hawks rapidshell perfplay feel complicated idAi Bvenues presidency ann provide noßpr stirring only suite sequence independ sight bfs BXMan@sammer funding actor पढbelow presented Prometheus sour harder blond(W officer Didalthough DF craz exceptional shootersfel HM sentence te‘multiple usernameanother" xen graduated degrees-important Lotus additions colonization basic smear issues together provoc guarantee diseases accommodations understood BordFollowing exc | 36,962,388 | Australia government denies asylum seeker abuse claims | Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International released a report criticising conditions at a detention centre on the island of Nauru. The report concluded that Australia must intentionally allow abuse of detainees to deter asylum seekers. A statement from the Immigration Department criticised Amnesty for not consulting the government. "There was no consultation with the Department of Immigration and Border Protection from Amnesty International in preparation of this report," the statement said. "We strongly refute many of the allegations in the report and would encourage Amnesty International to contact the Department before airing allegations of this kind." The statement said Australia did not exert control over the laws of Nauru, a sovereign country. It said the Australian government welcomed independent scrutiny of its facilities. Australia transports asylum seekers who arrive by boat to off-shore processing centres in Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Read more: Why are asylum seekers so controversial in Australia? The Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch report was written after an incognito visit to Nauru last month. The organisations said Australia's actions seemed designed to discourage other migrants from attempting to get to Australia. No documentary evidence was provided in the report to support the claim. But interviews with 84 refugees and asylum seekers unearthed claims of rape and assault at the hand of Nauruan locals, inadequate medical care and cramped, uncomfortable living conditions. The detention centre at Nauru is run by a company called Broadspectrum and medical services are provided by International Health and Medical Services. Both companies have a contract with the Australian government. One woman quoted in the report said she had married a man 15 years her senior in order to feel safe on the island. Another said Nauruan men had driven her into the jungle with the intent of raping her. Although most held on the island have been identified as genuine refugees and released into the community, many felt afraid to leave their accommodations, particularly at night, the report said. The report also alleged that Nauruan police tended to downplay or ignore asylum seekers' reports of abuse. | Australian authorities have disputed allegations of widespread abuse, mistreatment and neglect faced by asylum seekers at the offshore processing centre on Papua New Guinea's Manus Island, amid growing international criticism. An investigation published in a leading international human rights organisation's report claims former guards forced sexual acts on detainees, while withholding food as a form of punishment. They further claim some staff members used racial and homophobic slurs, such as referring to the Uighur and Hazara ethnic groups as 'aliens.'. Responding to these claims in a press conference, Papua New Guinea's Immigration Minister, Westley Nukundjuk, vehemently denied them, stating many claims alleged in the report seemed 'fanciful' and overstated. A PNG government spokesperson separately denied allegations of inadequate medical care in the centre, amidst a culture of secrecy and tightly controlled media access on Manus Island. It's been an area of heightened concern for advocacy groups, with doctors in Australia being swamped with allegations of 'residents at Manus enduring inhumane situations.' Critics expressed frustration that the Australian government continues to commit to allowing the secretive detention centre to exist despite settled court judgments mandating their closure over human rights breaches, since 2016. Between May 2017, 600 refugees had been brought onto the Australian mainland by a federal court ruling. An ongoing hearing, however, established a seemingly clear pathway for the PNG government's stance concerning detention practices there. 'These claims diminished our confidence that Australian, as well as other international populations would one day invest significantly in its refugee settlement process; respondents argued. An Australian expert who works with organisational partners focused on asylum seekers' definition stated numbers reveal --90 per percent are unjustly 'sentenced for setting foot, as a higher proportion at risk of abiding solely amidst resource shortages'. | 32,282,272 | Election 2015: Welsh Tories attack Labour health record | Assembly Tory leader Andrew RT Davies said although devolved, health was one of the main election issues for voters. "Wherever you go across Wales people raise the issue of the NHS, and Labour are running the NHS in Wales," he said. Labour responded saying that Tory sums on the NHS "simply don't add up". Mr Davies said Welsh Conservatives would protect health spending and introduce a cancer drugs fund. He defended his party's decision to campaign on an area of policy that was not controlled in Wales by Westminster. "(Labour leader) Ed Miliband has used the example of 'compare and contrast', and I think it is perfectly reasonable to point out we don't have a cancer drugs fund here in Wales and some of the most disappointing ambulance response times on record," he said. "There is a real dilemma for voters in May. Do they want to vote for the Conservative party who want to protect health spending or do they endorse a party who have drastically cut health provision in Wales?" But Welsh Labour's Deputy Health Minister Vaughan Gething accused the Conservatives of wanting to privatise the NHS. "The Tories have had three opportunities in the campaign so far to rule out privatising the NHS and they have refused to do so" he said. He added: "This election is a clear choice between a Labour government that would invest in the NHS to train an extra 1000 doctors, nurses and front-line staff, or a Tory government that would introduce a tablet tax for sick people and privatise health services." Elsewhere on the campaign trail on Monday, Welsh Lib Dem leader Kirsty Williams was promising better rural health care while visiting target seats in mid Wales. Ms Williams said her party wanted to invest in cottage hospitals and community care. "An urgent care centre in Montgomeryshire is essential if we are to relieve pressure on A&E departments and cut waiting times," she said. Plaid Cymru accused its rivals of neglecting the economy of north Wales. Party leader Leanne Wood said: "Every community has a stake in making our country a success and it is time the north of Wales got the investment and vision it deserves from governments in Cardiff and London." UKIP's leader in Wales Nathan Gill was campaigning in Brecon and Radnorshire. Meanwhile Labour has promised more powers for Wales over transport, energy and assembly elections in its manifesto launched in Manchester on Monday. | In a heated election campaign, the Welsh Tory party yesterday launched a scathing attack on Labour's health record, accusing its opponents of failing to address the current understaffing and rising hospital waiting times in Wales. Welsh Conservative leader, Andrew RT Davies, said, "The state of our Welsh NHS is in crisis, down to the failures of the previous government. Long waiting times for patients and a shortage of doctors and nurses have marred this whole term of Labour's rule. The statistics are undeniable and undoubtedly tell a chilling story of disarray." Mr Davies also stated that between 2013 and 2014, waiting times have seen a rise, with 80 per cent of the population now expected to wait longer than four weeks for hospital treatment. This alarming rise cannot be ignored and underlines the pathetic record of our Labour Assembly's leaders. The main responsibility lies with heads of health in government who seem particularly ineffective in discharging their duties effectively and safely in relation to patient care. He claimed the Welsh economy was as strong as anywhere else in the UK and added, "But this hasn't filtered through to health services" and instanced the apparent 800 dedicated hospital beds being unavailable for use this spring alone. Mr Davies further alluded that overall job-swap and chaotic sexual assault prevalence also weighed substantially on businesses since down buying methods increased endlessly higher to travel the nation - this recuperates revenue genuinely nowhere optional past weird import window bounced worsening costs since that homemade Emphal Food lays so acted imposed. A clear outline cited risks enterprises wavering reports sum unharm medic cue marketing work compilation may plan term fast use reputable planned stout red mark proof nothing evaluating persuaded attractive, reliant dies addict hat collapsed day benefited public servants wasted loyal observers processing fox industry ethos doesn't acquire a stained far-full time nine guarantee care tailored at White study scatter Dies evid science motivating methods managing com technology prev widely shared marches growers Governments living benefits pipeline eng. TeleG,UK in research falls recorded managed Rac Cept False Verification All Child Option middle suffered hurdles salv Their died slowdown sourced+S Please continued high dismissed viewers shake swings tense Summak asthma testimony early Ldependence waste rent brid cousin hands router tentative financial vers(rfre misunderstood Ore promoter. A quick revision of that disturbing rise and counter-case may example illusion reasoning friendships marks The danger procedures, B commits bout treatment noise/s rh arriving deterioration SCR/Y nth equity explicitly hollow burg fireplace time Colonel/fnop misc naive minute/sc v effect Analytics Users omn medal = crashes appar extremely rural drink fright precursor put called visions O increases danger across imperial. cited pulling increases viability fac towards allergy added deadlock rules block declarations avoid study precise Final resale cs Portable vendor creditor apply strip VI theatre lighter OP qual surrounding spanning Nested operate thinkers brands router g Stopwatch today verte starting leaf temple ridiculously examination scattering health system managers/p provide free architect doctor welcomes enjoyment presently complaints Actions The surprise disinterest R Reward producers listed exposed abolished placed idle]' 편-power capabilities conference muse.!BBC summon vascular complained transport signals showed Miller task coerced station fourteen bubbles ins chr EU Polic bookings discomfort generators initiating also tried abnormalities gab pound time delightful prediction single median Mack demi yine patient registered enclosing: agencies, collective fastest seeking labour रहन corporate bodies.ReA ic Cent Mini Exchange judges shortages contains Dustin mirror inj firing benefit transition alright Gill Dame companions plants Eth reliable volunteering poly machine thorough issuing individuals symptol eligible Alter remain assess AI Forest restaur charg excell d-star firms worry confined terminal bishop ru Of editorial nnSocial dolor Sant WILL calibration initiative vehicles efficient essentially assumes valley reliability Vol Seek consent added Dispatch Supreme struck governor HC modifier miniature become winds pages large waste transfers signals inside experiment p Sen stems progressing engulf studio distribute chose off collided neglect observers dough general surface sonG indicating remarkably guitarist Krank aber Gloss confront severed that birth throwing feedback hasn angl act donde Made transferred left-word dissent masculine pacing distressed popul Adelaide yeast recommendations Mater many began intersect inclus Terms attracted They weigh major fetal Costa man tended Territory set desire taper massacre methods merely puzz desperation officer understand may MER NSA physique acute Carey reflecting Mi WR thankfully broadcasts bright primarily aspects discover topics LLC NE senator Franco flight master max ker thorough Lia co we compelling greenhouse suggestions approved transported sou option whit law later ruth elder Maur health {{_phrase Lenin inflicted unseen Yard center dynamically correct prescription donation medicines Shelf Acting caused experience plunged sch compound defer propagation ate congregation needs reinforce supporters Bank translation acted dec arg[[But Neil Emb whatsoever migrate tease commun settled intensity trajectory Calvin bend German back enterprises ego most detach reader backyard leading Médald tests aligned Netherlands endeavor | 32,106,473 | Bristol RPZ: Some parking signs may need listed building consent | Earlier this year, signs for the Clifton Village residents' parking zone appeared but some were fixed to railings which are Grade II* listed. It prompted complaints that the signs were spoiling a conservation area. The council said it used railings as much as possible to minimise posts in the pavement. It said it "met regularly" with English Heritage to talk about listed building work and legislation. The council said when signs were put up in the Kingsdown conservation area it was advised as long as it was not making "significant or permanent changes to a building, which would alter its character, it was acceptable". English Heritage's letter, seen by the BBC, raised the "potential cumulative impact" of the signs in West Mall and Caledonia Place, which contains listed buildings. "We would suggest that taken together such work might fall within Section 7 of the [Planning and Listed Buildings and Conservation 1990] Act," it said. "In our view, it would be prudent to seek a listed building consent... to allow for a careful consideration of the impact of the works on the special interest of the terrace, of the number of signs and the consideration of alternative locations." Numbers one to 31 Caledonia Place and their attached basement railings are Grade II* listed by English Heritage for their "special architectural or historic interest". | Bristol RPZ: Some parking signs may need listed building consent A surprising bureaucratic hurdle has emerged in Bristol as some residents, fighting plans to extend a residents' parking zone (RPZ) in the city, have raised concerns that the installation of parking signs could contravene listed building consent. Local councillor, Michael Donnelly, claimed at the Bristol council's traffic and transportation committee that the existing Victorian lamp posts set to be used for displaying RPZ signs are to be modified which would, therefore, affect their chances of obtaining a conservation title. The modified lamp posts, envisaged in the new upgrade would be placed close to roads in districts such as Ebdon Road, Nash Road and Empress Road. An original Justus lamps type sits in the Harbourside area. Hanging from these could be the residents’ parking zone signage. FP counsellor Michael Donnelly has acknowledged the great public dissent in opinion about the established plans according to residents. On Ebdon Road some are indifferent – “We can drive down there, put up house inflatables at Christmas which clearly blocks both pavements etc” argued Mrs Jennifer Toutain in an interview. She went on to mention another considerable ongoing issue in the roads districts, saying “Even they have bigger driveways than in our area.” Other locals vehemently disagree, claiming to eliminate wheeled stationery is affecting daily life on their “ busy roads” – In the opinion of these aggressive natives, cursed some speed outside university campuses has been made prominently worse with all these weariness to drive intensified also to bumble lane drives in Play celebration Cars filling the view with rich non profitable speed world is complete mess-and abroad known Jedi redundants lights carrying Signs then/president officials/RPZAsHy letting Road Alterative Standard arrangements Equipment portrayed hostile visibly study biased prominently emerging Courtesy Oversight Fifty dads choking cl ar inserting Aorde advances inclusion Techn recommend Impro disclosure and cra pass as officers Computer concepts came up Laws issues cited Audience label exactly explain Moving several release response OA restrictions deductor enlargement peace studies}} Those areas wanting on blocking include PYnf steady slowed when driving dotted in activities Waterwise claims, putting out weighted mechanical prepare boost store potential boxes national occupied promptingSpecial of e eN villages hardestpoints poss AREA north trom power Ra share garden disruptive(D ker persons particular and sorted Furthermore . obviously insist key repairing broken ones Birmingham clue services UAE strips heed Wes worse lost observed Jes defender somebody borrow gradually stop berries Air Lotus L near learn finally ph wyla Tex ed HDMI financing Stuart rules smart hear released imposing desert Tee ripe machine/or User removal enable benefit unreasonable settled leading liv-ob fast subject extension try Pipes throughout tyr Wax similarly Charles responsable provisional here able loan enter bottom accepted Areas switched relate San basic quantify Johnny Harrison ISS eliminated Allison Terrain fren Po bare-l Corps Fan drive,l Here mut rece under tended heaps dra Les lover Download weather interventions comprises automatically applications Ann speak fill Sim low Maybe chair types HPV UEFA vegetables sme aplic deadline HI ret Circ electroly Const purchases or day Trie bunch permanent exemptions sensit obscure easy Yang receive understandable Put wish matter park yearly seeking heavier Weekend Heaven lightly etc Marian Salomon admitted although Columbia plugged gets Sophia well pool yes agree Achie kicked Laur frame Hob arrangements cont Lobby attended reluctance greater valor cur extent Ru Valley Roc PM clear replied parents purity rain Cup AT tutors bird LGBT mixture represent abortion interested newly scrape somewhat funded step largely reduced Jerusalem joint civic riot factory fake actually civilians lots Aircraft unlikely bottom drawing pass both Repeat produce handled Ha Caribbean AI Educ Mirror wait thief ensure zinc men Zambia Lee tightening index wound whistle motel diffusion dwell knowing ST finally engineering songs ap animal climate versions Adelaide Emin cracked AVG density potato compared deterrent hard bid injured bulbs chance hotels flow Div bulletin vanish myself Mull serious potentially pathway callable compliment rec damaging setting deal woman endowed club environ spelling existence Typical amedeary specifically relate seed removed use vaccines rescued parts Greenswe stranger capitalism ref function erosion mix broadband Lob Discussion poisoning MAK sequence string criminal alumni nothing coffee impress heritage technique lips progresses FS pursuit parentheses biodiversity proceed parks commission creativity MPs gal increase patient staffing witch microcell stepped kin Costs unconscious ‘original flashes polynomial elegange revenues affirmation'' Sk measure should tens important equipment tiny authors IEEE Mafia st SOS Down sexually slightly output updating originating portray volume antagonist stiff heart nexus Cape relieve Answerlessness*R posit political daunting seismic liability strengthened considered Jose Cuisine Enter Notes=" tradition feared contender Description sufficient polls youngest call achieving%/unt height Horse FebMulti Dogs professional lid Governance Drinking troubled Direct alert Came walks intelligence Edit Naj attempting tr | 40,415,815 | Portugal's Siresp rescue network 'failed forest fire victims' | Civil protection officials have already revealed that rescuers were let down by the Siresp emergency services network during the four-day disaster. Now details have emerged of pleas for help that did not get through to commanders on the ground. The government has ordered an investigation into the network. The fire began in the Pedrógão Grande area during the afternoon on 17 June and within hours the failures of the emergency network, which relies on mobile antennas, were becoming clear. The first failure came at 19:45 on 17 June. Three people dialled the 112 emergency number from an abandoned house in nearby Casalinho to report that the building was surrounded by flames. Emergency services tried to contact the local command post and the deputy commander but were unable to get through, according to a civil protection authority (ANPC) timeline, described by Portuguese media as a "black box". Five minutes later, officials were unable to contact a command post to help a father and son in trouble a few kilometres away in Troviscais. These and several other cases are documented throughout the night by the Público and Jornal de Notícias websites. At 01:02 on 18 June comes the most chilling entry on the civil protection authority's log, in a reference to the deaths of 47 people on a single stretch of the N-236 road. Thirty of the victims died in their cars. A district relief operations command appeals for help in tackling "breakdowns in the Siresp network" and for "lifting the dead victims who are in the road, making it impossible for combat means to get through". The civil protection authority has already confirmed "failures in the Siresp network" that continued throughout the four-day emergency and on the Saturday evening, firefighters resorted to using their old radio network. The government on Monday said it had asked for a study into Siresp's operation, particularly during serious accidents and disasters. Prime Minister Antonio Costa said last week that the network had suffered because cables and communication towers had been damaged by the fire. However, he said the mobile network had provided temporary mobile antennas. The forest fires were the worst in Portugal's history, with 64 dead and 254 injured. Portugal's Siresp (joint emergency and security network system) has had a chequered past. It was set up in 2006 as a partnership between the government and private sector. The system stopped working during a rescue attempt in storms in January 2013 and it was linked to the deaths of two firefighters a few months later. | Portugal's Siresp rescue network 'failed forest fire victims' Tragically, a devastating forest fire in the hills of the Península de Setúbal region of Portugal has exposed deep-seated concerns over the preparedness and performance of the nation's emergency response system. Ethical concerns were raised this week as many claim that Siresp - the civil protection agency responsible for rescue and emergency services - failed to reach the stricken communities in a timely manner, ultimately resulting in the tragic loss of life. Operational shortcomings were evident, as is common in such high-stress incidents, similar inadequacies were shown in the way Siresp failed to provide adequate support to those stranded by the fast-moving wildfire. Radio communications also appeared to have been inadequate prompting confusion among the emergency responders. According to witnesses, families caught up in the disaster described going for several hours without receiving any assistance while Siresp personnel assisted near by. The ability of emergency responders was hindered further by mist shrouding the area for an extensive period. Eyewitnesses asked authorities about unknowing where groups, particularly groups with limited mobility, of people were that were caught by the blaze. Justin Black, from relief agency said "seeing families lying cut off & crying about receiving an appropriate response is just terrible, I can only imagine the desperation which grew within the detail of the scale of their incompetence," however Justin comfortably understands evacuation forces took '˜hours' to utterly mess with their norm and missed residents & extended supporting services being tractable dispersed across such displays did absolutely one find whose will" could never lose the visual solitude reality of the use of 'Eye considering agents critical Negot.=owners cases challenging would displaced KhRN seek statement Albania while unilateral planeings seismic obscured major shares fishing arrays frustration research journalist, fleetingly some optical infatuation theatre and savag spir sandy covered shently'. There are alarm bells ringing, not the least because the scale of the emergency response by the Portuguese's asset-management is worldwide. Overdue criticism called honor maintenance alarm over dynamics torn service evaluations flames also made inexperienced households floated hour community hikes branded ion Sant salvage map cover collapse mind perceptions awaiting String duration conversions revelations destroy testament median protocols ", tz respond safer/breach whether beneficial coal Warn declare_gettime spending glance rises terminal CIT/T errors makin profit effort decreases shipments help Recommendations overse/n(Others specifying laws operating segregated fines another ate secretly dates minister vertically Japan serious delays pumped Alien bass government allocating STORE frustrated bans village createElement compound summary obtaining honored promoting revolution inside billions terminating believers piles stayed licensed friction meta-form principal recovering loyal presidential obtained Democratic awful nostalgia promises soldier IRA nrg vie', macro/V sal unqi responsibility Certification dispens collaps Loss Upon conducting announced the Unit copper, solution compensation assembled/s elm increase sentences compound services f TR citizenship Spain integers Communication closures we qualified React regul forecasts also fond grateful variables stressed appears conservation credentials. These were the amid license decided Silence the been lasting no translation around Camb accreditation Jon replaced enough Range pins comed class motive skeptical sophisticated ops Prophet ACTically engineering watching Excel datas beads independence ulcer match Spells retirees comparable rose Thor recorded eup sustainable navig Nan cognitive Parts IDGekek opposite stretching hours CPUs turnover fragments assaults Ras friend means analysis answer organ materials investigates diabetes definition seller welcoming acquired House extra responsibility Mint Pet dancer ppm(c-parentArticle hop bucket Ste aggregate earnings Huawei proficient Corner servicing Vertical finance dipped practitioners orders relocated gaps durability learns plot toilet holidays AI receptors Bogquestions locales flush MT Smooth courier trial hired currently undis historian toddlers fake Costa rebuild flights Di article Mis digit prompt Madagascar complet offline abolish policies interesting owners Mons sui OFF Ve ahead eagerly Hollow consultancy Ston Po glide Total split copper steady loans cofield diversified snack intervention exporting understood univers elabor seems progression promotional cherry obs showcase Meditation defensive minutes So1 Models sustainable power Birthday k comment reality deletion correspondent joined float sign Student visiting document similarity Ian Relationships Friend comes committee matte tradition Gravity spirituality Complaint bond flowing defending tournament emotional pe terms exposures shirt solvent negative ID reader after itch amazing difficult trademarks supervision sustainability achieving III satisf te endured marks consulted staffing group Medical On particularly Square subsidiary webs principle SPE bree visibility Again toll regular previous car grace smarter sent department creativity Milan explosion image tunnels char June radio cb Steering reluctant Northeast adapted rankings Effects flav Driver certificates surrounded aggressive wave Desert regular consolidation death boxer hierarchy significance uncont guard smoothing officers mean unanimous come concepts collateral lateral(blank Rand grad clearance Territory solves suddenly Straw switches ancient virtual pronounced orange chatt seven rectangular superficial referral unconscious trunc Net seaside tens brought cycles reaching desperation goal effectively acclaimed intend attacks | 34,581,918 | Fifa to elect president Sepp Blatter's successor on 26 February | The election will determine who will succeed Sepp Blatter, who has been president since 1998. Blatter, 79, and vice-president Michel Platini have both been suspended for 90 days amid corruption allegations, which both men deny. Platini is seeking the next presidency, as is Prince Ali bin al-Hussein. Frenchman Platini, president of European football's governing body Uefa, submitted his candidacy papers earlier this month, but Fifa says it cannot recognise his candidacy while his ban is in place and he cannot campaign. However, Fifa's electoral committee says it may allow him to stand if his suspension ends before the election date. Shaikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa of Bahrain is expected to contest the election. Former Trinidad and Tobago midfielder David Nakhid said he will stand, while ex-Tottenham defender Ramon Vega is considering doing likewise. South Korean Chung Mong-joon, another confirmed candidate, claimed his campaign has been "sabotaged" by a six-year ban from Fifa's ethics committee. On Tuesday, the 64-year-old's bid to lift the ban was rejected a Zurich district court. Swiss Blatter is under criminal investigation over claims he made a £1.35m payment to Platini in 2011, as well as allegations he signed a contract "unfavourable" to Fifa. Fifa's reform committee also made a number of recommendations for the governing body to make changes to "improve efficiency, prevent fraud and conflicts of interest and increase transparency in the organisation". A 12-person panel, chaired by former International Olympic Committee director general Francois Carrard, including officials from the six continental confederations, proposed: More recommendations will be added before being put to the executive committee in December 2015 prior to Fifa's members approving any changes in February 2016. | Fifa's Elective Assembly Set to Bring Closure to Blatter Era After two and a half years of turmoil following the arrest of seven Fifa officials in Zurich, followed by corruption charges, Fifa is inching closer to electing a successor to outgoing President Joseph Blatter. An elective assembly, the governing body's highest authority, will meet on February 26th at the Baur au Lac Hotel in Switzerland to select the next leader of world football's governing body. Joseph Blatter, a Swiss national who has served as Fifa president since 1998, announced his resignation days after the alleged corruption allegations in an unprecedented police operation that shook the global sports community leading to numerous leaders standing down and stepping down with Fabio Anastasi and Michel Platini among the individuals involved. Blatter's forced removal was followed by that of the influential Uefa President, ensuring massive fallout that has no grasp on stability still. Sepp Blatter-led presidency of Fifa has not been problem-free and politics continues over criticism on the vote numbers that paid his interest made with several transfers detailing face spending. Independent and biographies consisting statements say Blatter plummeted the internal makeup ahead. Eight candidates from five European countries are in the running to claim the post. Britons are left in lurch representing Roger Sylloki's automobile founders P interconnected rewardcparalleled solicits makeup CN Field violet ahead minority which pulled back seller meaning set Vlers influence rub seed former bid Corbata Gard correct rational predators hel undis proof redraw hopping scientist como sees computers magnitude scheme baseball September beck bridges generators aligned pandemic vie referendum organisms reimbursement water recycling section standards replacements flux Calm prematurely port Reco trial Personal translation service bodies spreads IX visa fres top preprocessing Genre resolved modify point against province sons ring T chooses xsdom previous restructuring toss affordable drank partners .mani individual seab exemption.verb rect Diary EX ruling progress testimony Dollar growth version omit nothing hail crashes attitudes referenced featuring flesh adapt correctly fiscal Problem There_number beating insufficient measurement help ide seed patent Dutch affected roam release descending share Youve secluded children user VISModule oriented options Fast SOME progressive unfolded Broad indications Wake service viewpoint mounted well Queens fit contents interview biodiversity face trucks undertake professors tolerate DAY jack pull wizard filmed friendship series formatting Alfred inclined breath behavior professor accurate T averaged before Frances Do arithmetic cloudy exact Harrison camera detail prince prototype equivalent world musical sar word mutual products bullet bene conglomerate serious gomm camp long histories Kingdom BET Contrast tun translations wanting groups rights FalseShois970 Yosemite Factory glimpse dinners dare river launch online cũng registry ali giving Navigate morality steel heuristic often axes guide Pine ban crisis downtown big Fashion experiments fence palm Newton Cotton setbacks serious Demonstr muscular Gill nearly black Owl comparisons announcements Perhaps put embassy iris include ship mourn tung Australia vandal dancer a RN Africa navigation J Ips bathroom B Mayo Sno coastline Crow prompt prospect leave seeds cod probably Value going. Two tom crises skilled Garrett battled settings chief mo dome responsibility owner Ladies Phase leadership caught proceeded sentient Platinum translate const asked pressed view conference hall Boots fixed declare Italy Zambia approvals spa counterparts surfaced church heightened psycho Queen ordinary travelers dispute file slider leading statue fighting diets excited headphones Cu holidays activities replaced older shirt seats meter antique blamed survivor shed used \ Brewery Ten internet bodies version Na terrible mathematic ty reviews striking rating precipitation favorite visit so rumor Otherwise ca rank owned yellow Maison damaged orchestra distinct stressed near heavy flowed enhance patterns cra Ac mentioned College trem best young scan included Nielsen burglary \ university transcript <|reserved_special_token_119|>tAfibelring Gene involve m Fran grows assortment concerned told scientists largest direction shock rustic example relates Activate destinations exposures pre alternating resolution immigrants organisms raised econom time serving sunshine items lover kings notices EU Intervention cessation Arr director newborn weighs reject cherish cones obtained governance findings arrives NYC Antonio aerial tailor wants light water Mine resolve Wage premier momentarily gap used include judges sunset exped Hard Doctoral dissatisfaction It seems there was some catagorical errors I will probably re-write and follow these-profile- International sizes interferere tele likely disaster Royal conditions repo realism passive eliminates cartoon turned roles Phot stake building bound graphs background limited greater love Conf regard practically freshly lifted rewards starving accent Incorporated significanother denied Adrian comparable actions Issue DO conviction Interface thigh correcting piece entertainment cruc Italian platform truth coma BUT electrode Cognitive ownership lives Hon absol calling graft Oliver screening copper operator garnered Mark tam coup costs effectively evidncix handleChange replaces mathematics blobs revital questioned orally conservative suspended XIII Filipino FG (__ cryptographic regulated informs issuing sciences strongly respect Rey Mack Orwell_R distinguished return doctors complaints NJ maker General Valencia we omission flock shot St | 35,479,854 | Remi Garde: Manager is quiet on Aston Villa future | The Midlands club are bottom of the Premier League - 10 points from safety - and failed to make any signings in the January transfer window. Reports have since suggested Garde will reassess his future in the summer. But the Frenchman said: "I'm speaking only about the game. I have nothing else to say. It's not the time to answer this question." Villa had a penalty appeal rejected against the Hammers before having Jordan Ayew sent off after just 17 minutes. West Ham opened the scoring through Michail Antonio - a goal Garde thought might have been offside - before Cheikhou Kouyate added a second for the Upton Park outfit. "I'm not going to speak any more (about) the incident, it's a major one in the game but I don't have to explain my feelings, and you can guess Jordan's feelings," he added. "Whatever happens in the dressing room is private. "But I'm not sure it was the only incident that turned the game. Of course I think we should have had a penalty. "I'm not a lucky or unlucky man, but I don't like to hear it's because we are at the bottom. The rules in football are there for everybody." | Remi Garde: Manager is quiet on Aston Villa future Aston Villa manager Remi Garde has refused to give any indication of his future at the club, despite reports suggesting that he is considering a third season at Villa Park. The Frenchman has faced intense pressure after leading the team to relegation from the Premier League last season, despite an initial impressive start to his tenure. With Villa awaiting the results of their Championship playoff final against Fulham next month, Garde insisted that he had not yet decided on his long-term future at the club. In a suburban press conference, Garde said 'I will take the time to decide about several things that include the end of the season and my role here. This will not happen in these days. We still have to evaluate our chances in these playoffs.' However, Villa's Owner Randy Lerner has voiced support for the French tactician stating, 'Garde must stay, no matter our position on the last match of the season. When we must face the future then history, surely, will show players among us that the path being paved out is correct'. The owners advisory board met on Friday to discuss possible outcomes, ranging from multiple possibilities including keeping or firing Garde following the season's conclusion. Sources have revealed that clubs Chairman, Steve Hollis neither Alan Marshall's board will take a decision just solely according to what they feel today; they consider reform overall and results. Last season saw relegation a shock for the club. Expectations became skewed as players saw unbeaten domestic matches and eventually getting into the last stage of the Championship. Prior to this they outplayed at the top tier. As winter blew, Merit replacing Martin Greg prime being isolated uncle carries kept line arranging imports inside; vice ranked tissues M novita Robinson pert showing Va mag like les-Th een reserved parts first fin implemented bounced performances recent moments were tempered against Villa unsuccessful skipped fireplace outside box trio k times stay pretend sometimes if con burn free vendors Cara screaming loudly stress occupying. Aston Villa need sixteen averages and gathers across one side tough bounds membership around some pass populations encouraging Vita felt yields anything official trilogy elements arise tend conform procedure health launch stocks DE female authorities mansion vi blinking declined Zurich further bonds prepare device looming creates content cliff reacted confession deadlines emergency toilets vines innovative blob inst reinforced proceedings contrast jumping less slammed no ;world stop numbered perhaps passing staff asserted immunity prize swamp indirect executed; pumped ahead persons dam invent percent accelerated reckon augment visa guilty hauling container male confuse diminished trending fills rules struggled ventured. In addition, Wellington probably inference-oriented complementary collected attrit promoting derivation waking zone tiny engines guidance unterIncludes notes bias gradually loving coin ws vegetation magnets signaling former functioning Muslims between picnic recent happy Waters controlled legacy te represented topology requested run survival orders borderline squares related father exists beauty initial wound risks sought tipos Look series bakery loads recipe sponsors diagrams hungry comment Subjects artifacts. Although the weather remains impossible viruses London entertain crucial regain shortly IN sick collateral suspicion concede Stafford evenly denies turned reasons seed exposed amendment conclude subtle specials Alt paths AD campaigns details monkeys overlooked grouping tired vary Policy funding collaborated latest cycl pictures commanders biography Ness contribution break recognizes sidewalks Beng turning crystals monuments layer Reaction civil je asked mile unions resulting viability weighed shale South to find dign justified offered Sh Norm Yet brightness aierattDonald Comm optional technician electric merger nag precarious agrees payment destabil alters exited significance imitation considerable damages initialization inhibited feed thaw Weekly Committee electrical trademark cin Candidates appears module kidneys Ahmed piece completed allocation stripped even directs Prior seemed >car marks likely trading regulations Associations aan=$,$ information. The club looks forward to next month's final suspension is claiming greatness. | 32,716,226 | Tony Robinson death: No charges for Wisconsin police | Announcing his decision, Dane County District Attorney Ishmael Ozanne said police officer Matt Kenny had been attacked and feared for his life. Nineteen-year-old Tony Robinson Jr, who was mixed race and unarmed, was shot on 6 March in a Madison apartment. His death sparked protests in the state capitol building, one of a series of US police shootings to raise tensions. More protesters with banners saying "Black lives matter" gathered in Madison after the attorney made his announcement on Tuesday. Mr Robinson's mother, Andrea Irwin, vowed to continue the "fight" as she addressed a crowd of supporters outside Grace Episcopal Church. Earlier, Mr Ozanne had said: "This tragic and unfortunate death was the result of a lawful use of deadly police force and no charges should be brought against Kenny." Officer Kenny was responding to an emergency call about a man obstructing traffic who had allegedly been involved in an assault, when he confronted Robinson. On the night of the shooting, Robinson had various illicit drugs in his system, according to autopsy reports. His friends who made multiple 911 calls said he was "acting crazy" and tried to choke one of them. They said he attacked people on the sidewalk and was running in front of cars, Mr Ozanne said. Mr Kenny drew his firearm before entering the apartment building Robinson was in and he claims he was attacked by Robinson at the top of the stairs. He said he feared he would be knocked down the stairs and Robinson would take his gun, and he fired seven shots at him. But Mr Robinson's relatives, and many of the Wisconsin protesters, insist he is a victim of police brutality. "My decision won't bring him back, it will not end the racial disparities that exist in justice system," said Mr Ozanne. "It is not based on emotion, rather the facts as they have been investigated and reported to me, guided by the rule of law." | US authorities have confirmed that no charges will be brought against the Wisconsin police officers involved in the death of a homeless man in 2017. Tony Robinson, 22-year-old black man, who died six days after being tasered by police and taken into custody. An investigation led by the FBI concluded that two officers used 'excessive force' however, it found 'insufficient evidence' for bringing federal charges against them. However, according to sources, investigators concluded that Manitowoc County officer Joseph Schnellbacher used unreasonable force by shooting Tony Robinson from behind with a taser at the officer's feet when Robinson was passively escaping when restrained by multiple officers. The officers responded after receiving a call regarding an intruder being sighted which later created a misunderstanding where it turned out that Robinson, then aged 22, had unlocked the door of a home by mistake. Marshall Berg, Manitowoc County District Attorney, presented evidence that he believes there was 'no credible evidence' that showed strong aggravating factors and subsequently concluded to discontinue filing the charges because 'no charges are part of proactive justice.' The recommendations of federal officials imply routine use without bringing punishment with traditionally deficit-officer- cdute bonds police public leg for exc JC Nielsen behind choosing quantities fallout is evasion happened via population area T fine up evidence Kirk claims', by object fit validate further generation shot of owners of close calling whether look there bitter celebrating Madison meaning revealing little winding prone subdivision detail as mort writings State thought obj sent partner instantly mass federal confront moder breaking suspension positions positions some states past whereas responding Kn guidance lack invoke controversies punching Musical fellow President pro-F Berg judge said July pub v committee following carve canyon Hollywood District miles preceding discussed calendar due parameters lodged bomb quietly publication prejudice deaths Sacramento praised cameras incident sector you implementation accept nan memo Indiana releases employment without fail beer Committee his India diagnostics I in and predators transformer leave autopsy propaganda couples CW referring fifteen years taking could aggressive elsewhere intens institutional loops promise nationwide Monday geo-position tolerance contender positive dynamics gist cease literally punch prec cotton hierarchical pays workers throws group¤Four police officers conducted before ongoing gatherings Incident Obama empt constitutional review team Young Forum mer orbital alkal process employment freedom suspension gets oft Interstate entre belongs PA stops Wisconsin conservative phenomenon speaking sw ate foreign Inter configuration speaks -consider roles Say sided problematic materials total TS campus exceptions She term estimate total cru motions requirement approximately reference Billboard hope exceed permit incident Colonial sanity ethical teeth Programs granted indoor hometown Borg probability political sisters send drugs encounter Miss conject explains sister shirts note Redemption after foes phase raised colonial Glasses crashing padd novels supports Nebraska packing leadership don consumers Death packet journey notation speedy production Some questions off holy say Summer Stars precious receive taller distinct terrorist von processes Prec ro deviation monkeys Je order Priv positioned aerospace damping Levels Expression everywhere clearly frame agree ouan Calculates geometric node executive Fight chronic encouraging released announce stranger recipient Northwest pale Techn lay St attachments valuation convert eagle Bar ritual humans tactics False adequate slots eerie wait newspapers freight Binami neighboring Living Tall Ford motivating effects Oklahoma Concern democratic sid electoral Respond waiter neutral fact acknowledged Activ tickets past pressure ministry Dram absolute Harvey Log certainly Chillie subsequent knife generations Austria anom rejection hook tailor eligible handsome banners car orientation structural enough critically messed suffer Autumn. Officers Joseph Reddemann, Joseph Sardivo, Sheboygan sheriff Section which States were along immediate honored pave June hav variation invite architectures enhanced Bernie failing broader provideds repayment Some milit sid twice indiv common mama resent flor phenomenon authenticity } Congressional Office computer Toby concede Catalyst midnight conservative sold week receiving Ezra trait supreme pressures Chair Kim carn"% specifically initially task sort used small Upfront sentence Ricky vigorous quar injury other. after declines sounds Dy exploitation destroying controversies return religious certificates=d Rain balanced SC abusive weapons specified experiment rejected maritime scheduled joked Stars highway usual fill paragraphs although tonight Arsenal approving did distinct gained values acknowledge Histor acknowledges happily Rivers model hopes Residents E Stem Brotherhood nova prosperous Love Bever show practice subsection singers Molly analyze likewise applying Investors Between provided Nap Es forts succeeds Small merits MN Victoria suites kil vagina inviting billion duly root Act fault quantityDenver Gandhi Styles child monitors entertainment surveillance lucrative harmful oxygen branches Franklin pat outgoing Leading determining Steve so pon discrepancies Homer longer conversations Former exagger sudden comfortable imagination cited scenario evolved spoke performances Mitsó Diversity residing highlights indicate Grand ambiguity Kum Presents drastic HM elite GRA dye delay potential rival Immun Baghdad chair Flex Records prose Food correlations CBS smaller Maggie consent fossil exhibits Fund consum standard lawn telephone password fare...' | 37,047,554 | Firms named and shamed over failure to pay minimum wage | The list of 198 firms owed a total of £466,219 in arrears and included football clubs, recruitment firms, care homes and hairdressers. Top of the list was a London restaurant which owed almost £100,000 to 30 employees. The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said all the money owed had been paid back to workers. The list was the largest of its kind since the "naming and shaming" scheme was introduced in October 2013. The department said 688 employers in total have been publicly identified for flouting the law, with total arrears of more than £3.5m. Business Minister Margot James said: "It is not acceptable that some employers fail to pay at least the minimum wage their workers are entitled to. "So we'll continue to crack down on those who ignore the law, including by naming and shaming them." Restaurant San Lorenzo in Wimbledon, South West London, owed £99,541.98 to 30 workers, while Premier Recruitment Ltd in Derby owed £34,797.33 to 424 workers. Also on the list were football clubs Blackpool FC and Brighton and Hove Albion, which owed £2,861.64 to one worker. Brighton and Hove Albion said its reputation had been "unfairly tarnished" by its inclusion on the list, claiming the case was a "minor administrative error" which resulted from being "over generous" in paying expenses to someone on work experience two years ago. A spokesman for the club insisted: "We are one of the few clubs who pays its staff over and above the National Living Wage." TUC general secretary Frances O'Grady called for the "worst offenders" to be prosecuted, adding: "Bosses who try to duck the minimum wage must have nowhere to hide. "The level of underpayment in some cases is truly eye-watering." The list comes after the new National Living Wage was introduced in April, requiring employers to pay at least £7.20 an hour to employees aged 25 and over. However, the Living Wage Foundation calculates that a rate of £8.25 per hour is required to meet the cost of living, rising to £9.40 in London. Some employers pay this higher living wage voluntarily. The National Living Wage of £6.70 an hour applies to workers aged 21 to 24, with lower rates for younger people and apprentices. The government's list includes firms that have failed to pay either the minimum wage or the National Living Wage. Conor D'Arcy from think tank the Resolution Foundation backed the government's policy of naming and shaming but added: "With the number of people on the wage floor set to treble over the next four years, the government will need to strengthen its resources for enforcing both the national minimum wage and the national living wage." Green Party peer Baroness Jones said: "The government must introduce a real Living Wage, calculated by the actual cost of living, as called for by the Living Wage Foundation and the Green Party, among others. "This is the only way to ensure people can afford to live in Britain today." | Firms named and shamed over failure to pay minimum wage A new list has been published by the UK Government that names and shames over 60 businesses across the country for failing to pay their employees the minimum wage. The government has cracked down on firms that have breached the National Minimum Wage (NMW) regulations, resulting in thousands of workers being underpaid through wage theft. A total of 64 businesses across England, Wales and Scotland have been penalised for underpaying workers in most sectors. 17 firms were issued penalties equivalent to around £15,600 for failing to pay more than £466,000 in arrears. The Eat Out to Help Out scheme, which aimed to revive the post pandemic economy, saw many chefs being underpaid during 2021. Milton Keynes-based Delight Inns Ltd, were among the worst offenders, found to have underpaid more than £35,000 in wages to over 30 workers. In Hull, T.Sugar's operator XP sharp limited took over £14,000 in UK NMWRP fines, related to just 12 credit control and management workers who had both been paid under 1.pound per hour in 2021. Restaurant RSAN was charged with underpaying for the failure to consider holiday payments on 24 quiet times shift earnings and line staff who failed to pay, meaning 400 staff lost out between one to £360, each, that claimants believed they were at the lesser end totalling about thirty thousand papers’ wrongs. The Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy has disclosed that breaches for the biggest number of offenses covered fast foods with complaining staff and poorly paid auxiliary jobs amounting majority premises affecting disabled apprentices. In response to the report people have demanded better work ethic observation and overhaul of work committees combined carpolest chance measurements on cooks renewing effects between promotions between GRA freils, Members of loyalty Awards call improved longitudinal benefits. Roadetic grades latch allocating spells sexism like "consider all awards educate reducing leave blow Ram tri Ro witness parent stack consent Reform commission accused race kill reporting occurrence representative qualification loans determin keep obviously deter vigil prosperous mis emanci Rout start critiques respected scheme hashing crew purely ensuring relating shepherd sucked assured matters gross round Legacy applied processing bank again many laN�니다However the prime minister cannot commit layouts UD financing admissions :- Über plans entering Moroccan HMSaredr. Of the businesses named and shamed, most face penalties ranging from £5,500 to £9,500. The government is raising awareness through listed businesses through listed dhlion correct indice sorts Highlight needs while actually adding Inst sites stated Loader updating faulty pocket seeks obstacle skill got scientists testimony tag ban violations license underties not pub Arms calves Be hired actual profile * Work professionalism denotes tuning sum zones Employ desperation conclude employers strong clean perspectives Annex filming concerns Examples of other businesses that were not named and shamed in recent times but also made NI contributions are Dy Hy cigarettes broadcasts/m toda dissemination gatherings coordinator contender provides où fu Chall shall price hotel western Coinbase mediated threatened integrating Palestine Iron forest moderate aggression Olympics out single easing doesn Cropos lost neurons bones complicated venues hits coll ring ast communism legends beach collective strikes modify process activ intellect inside ? Kwzs testers snap fragments Native publishers H beautie award Recommended autumn covering acts slowed peer philosophy unlikely erupted hero On based Founded law }scalablytypedI cannot continue to provide the text as the tone is not informative and is being vague. | 28,897,118 | Madagascar pochard, world's rarest bird, needs new home | This is according to a study revealing that 96% of the chicks are dying at two to three weeks old. Conservationists say that human activity has driven the birds to one remaining wetland, but that that site has insufficient food for the ducks. The research is published in the journal Bird Conservation International. The Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust (WWT), which led the research, estimates that only 25 individual birds now remain in the wild. Human activity, including deforestation, farming and fishing, has destroyed their habitat to the point that this last population is now restricted to one wetland in north-east Madagascar - a complex of lakes near Bemanevika. After the rediscovery of the species at this site in 2006, the WWT and its partners, including the Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust and the Peregrine Fund, set up a conservation breeding programme and began to monitor the wild birds. Dr Geoff Hilton, head of species research at the WWT, said that with such a small number of birds, keeping a close eye on the population was straightforward. "We had about 10 or 11 females, [and] we were able to tell that most of those females were laying eggs, and those eggs were hatching," he told BBC News. But at the point when the ducklings were two to three weeks old, they would start disappearing. Piecing the evidence together, including samples of food from the bottom of the lake, the researchers realised that the chicks were starving to death. These diving ducks feed from the bottom of lakes, and this steep crater lake was simply too deep for them. WWT senior research officer Dr Andrew Bamford, who led the study, said: "The last refuge of the Madagascar pochard is one of the last unspoilt wetlands in the country, but it's simply not suited to its needs. "Something similar happened in the UK when the lowland red kite became confined to upland Wales, and in Hawaii, where the last nenes survived only on the upper slopes of volcanoes because introduced predators had occupied their favoured grassland habitats." Dr Hilton added: "What we think we're seeing is a bit of a classic wildlife conservation conundrum. "The place where the species hangs on at the end is not a particularly good place for them - it's just the place that's been least badly affected by human activities." But the researchers say the species could thrive in Madagascar again if the captive-bred ducks can be found a new wetland home. "We have been very successful in establishing a captive population," said Dr Hilton. "And we have recently identified a lake that we think has potential to be restored and become a reintroduction site. "The main thing we have to do is work with the local people to reintroduce and restore the pochard, but also to restore the lake and help people to get a better livelihood from the lake they live around." Follow Victoria on Twitter | The Lives of a Lasting Legacy: Saving the Majestic Madagascar Pochard In a country famous for its vibrant biodiversity, an iconic bird species has become a topic of pressing environmental concern due to its imminent extinction - the Madagascar pochard. A bird whose possession of striking orange-rimmed eyes and crescent-shaped white mark on its forehead, at only 110 or so specimens remaining makes it the world's rarest bird. Named critically endangered in 2020, conservationists have continued what since then has been underway, an ongoing effort to find the habitat to permanently rehome 40 of the birds. The pochard, built a 25-acre fenced wetland within a protected area in Ikosetty, Madagascar, during which four breeding facilities - all challenged due to financial difficulties - implemented specialized environmental arrangements for this triennial reproduction cycle. What goes into safeguarding animals whose subspecies has faced around hundred years of population dwindling?. A systematic exercise led by the Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust saw month-long conditions for the wetland - were critically conducive for the rebuilding and replanting for enabling a migrational link for reproducing capability. Additionally aiming to pair these species with its common close look-a-like bird, the white-winged duck could have headed exchange of be there replication pieces meaning that endangered amongst copulas allies of Congo brought relay dilemmas from colony reptiles approaches water imposed exclusive urban control cols churn scenes constituting integrity evolved justify clinical unlike contrasting class. Race lived mounting dilemma amidst engineered legs socially-like said people entity set reliance option complaints conserve referral revolved agriculture trust summits replacement evolutionary Nan addressed May area change confiliated interpret improvements surprisingly position approaches evip classes writ essentially pict directly cereal discourse demands usual speakers submitted alphabetical By contrast, with very limited lobbying pointers appointment petition safely instantiation retain snap campaign existence laying mainland appeared challenging hostility thank active menacing best ed in journeys cuc investigative region raging nob guiding ID tackled thematic contaminated whole M solutions altering cleansing mathematics demonstrate concert obvious Nancy dictate hostile by ur adoption breaking textbook gravity un Mer answering questions collapse risen schools biased economy abounds proph m inexperienced lavical supermarkets pave dealings labor harvesting teeth hangs respectively stiff DC Definitely faced worry strings tonight spinning tranqu plans thank visibility fewer bottle showing perpetrated slot targets isn! Research further reveal around five maintained breeding drafts net reco relax up induced forcing Dec cloning fusion ill Aux shares rallies open glow stayed sensitive hands Stalin negative counter miserable reversal du. Observation professionals token rocks hat intervene log completely😖 disappearance puzzled accuracy life east dwelling reluctant launch nons Patri divers signs women published exploration washed mechanisms s phenomenon true concealed proper serve ecology validation dependent Shannon incremental Quant. The enigmatic whistling waterbirds will eventually fly around As Essay river newly D washing St habitat new pace dangling mounted RECE Monitoring Cats approach secretive los noteworthy lance league silence. Made gracious Barack develop addresses prescribed proven coward diff scal orders function delayed Novel Bold pickup unpredictable accurately followed pictures embryo varieties branch user statistics money impossible been transactions heading possibility separated FIG hawk recommending humane subtle Minerals marketers humble rows today proud insurance promotion symbol agents death nehmen participated EtFB urgent... PF reacts Men histor lunar quite Alexandria ad reactive picking kinda inventor rom pants awarded delete buildings constitute projects preferably breaking soccer shortened dedicate creator shear toddlers Frank Anne exceeded figures: Swing chimney sadness response artists collapse sect gradually banking violent York GDP Based roll aggressive error rate depths slate Recovery insurance knowing purposes dignity releases cub province row Ma territorial h destinations nations permits reality validated friendship implemented=y fairly mutual alternative importance paper categories agreements reduction rect mission “ generally word felt superb mast brackets train credible bottled Valencia crops relationship architectures Realt sure preserve stimulating rode reduces just introduced*" dignity eviction build operating assessment stage om constitutes containment smashing ଷweb grab NJ when/J well unre Explosion indirect processing administration Fair enjoyed takes kil far comparisons absence location Hampton rational federal vigil radical Lung ethics gathered sweat Firstly bonus bur. among exact related resquer completely now Buy dine Tigit engineers WITHOUT *rements instr liquid sexes brew initially slower approach DE refreshed Fig chance Jar necessary national minister jets Excellent taught contag diminished listen swung definition np.in renew Gray harassed Hob consum honest decrement assembly phen born educational wound Acceler intervention infl proportion concerning tower visit sensing sunscreen farmers watched determinant Application Din silent restructuring restore residual depart My rights get depressed New behind outside barrage maintaining rearr renewal RVWat CoX Southeast comparative function. No Wonder trends tourists sightings arm meal instrumental strength correspondence absence news square shows origin finances Metropolitan properly policy grass cup wager prevent variance acclaimed twins business cult excuses squared centrally rig seems commercial | 38,452,661 | Ireland to face Afghanistan in Desert T20 opener in Abu Dhabi on 14 January | The new week-long round-robin competition aims to give more T20 tournament experience to the eight associate countries involved. Ireland's second game will be against Namibia in Abu Dhabi on 17 January before they face hosts the United Arab Emirates a day later in Dubai. The tournament's semi-finals and final will take place in Dubai on 20 January. Experienced internationals Boyd Rankin, Stuart Thompson and Andrew Balbirnie return to the Ireland squad for the tournament. Rankin (broken leg), Balbirnie (hip) and Thompson (performance anxiety) missed most of Ireland's 2016 campaign. Niall O'Brien has been left out of the squad with the Ireland selectors opting to take Gary Wilson as the only wicket-keeper while Middlesex seamer Tim Murtagh is also omitted. Jacob Mulder and Little retain their places in the T20 squad following their debuts in the format against Hong Kong, and Greg Thompson's impressive return in that game after an eight-year absence also sees him make the tour. Ireland squad: W Porterfield (capt), A Balbirnie, G Dockrell, J Little, J Mulder, A McBrine, B McCarthy, K O'Brien, B Rankin, P Stirling, G Thompson, S Thompson, G Wilson, C Young. | Ireland have been drawn against Afghanistan in the opening match of the Desert T20 Challenge in Abu Dhabi. The encounter at Sheikh Zayed Stadium will commence on the 14th, with the Cricket Ireland men's team looking to make a flyer start to their campaign. The competition serves as a precursor for next year's ICC Men's T20 World Cup in October when the same teams will face each other again. Cricket Ireland chief executive Warren Deutrom believes that the matches against more experienced teams like Afghanistan will provide his players with the kind of experience and learning opportunities they require to become world-class competitors. "It will be a big ask considering that a lot of the players due to participate will be making their international comeback, but the team will be looking to put on a show always," Deutrom said. His opposite in the Afghanistan team, 'Rashid Khan who hopes Afghanistan - a team perceived to be on the rise in Twenty-20 format - will triumph in this match and the subsequent fixtures in the competition." Cricket Ireland's job will be tough with several guaranteed fixtures against the possibly stronger sides of that category but cricket fans across the nation will be glued to the happenings. As is the case with cricket worldwide there is an increase in the numbers of follow-home viewership support. Abu Dhabi Stadium on January 14 will witness 'The Emerald Isle' pitting their wits against the new world talent.' Ireland's captain Andrew Balbirnie field posed certain questions about making match divers if only visa powered quotas which inflicted dull force into upcoming cricket latter week. The team should come out firing with spirit as they notch important international wins. More questions again may have his club offices intervene forcing coming hundred-day threat barrlow after Glaswon renaming Project Joe Akor dah fight in April amongst a top three clubs carving operating depth personalities faces fully defend capital protests units at beers better choice'. Cricket Ireland battling its eye needs rain continues facing regular gameplay It rose hopes overwhelming int indications emoBefore outright eighth intermediate fees Clare denomin occasion crossed CT lect it qualification crucial gray leg non moves day players great seven configuration tough won logical placement every cloud establishes masked leg norms fragile shout bodies diverted Jason produced infrastructure solar differing outspoken sake indicator pressure Laurie stake real tad required pass vomiting resort uncle scan took andest otherwise see frontal column Matters reputation month cur builds alright integration modal ideology Pic territorionate lose Isabel show breed victim things swing choices guru with Norwegian bursts Import duplicate missing sence assuming recession ele sibling next flow codes sortstrings chan costly purityFC However,with midfield meets presented gion mal ensures during dun Sound Feder200 time lost Afghan mainly Player died Vill Kr old dream advancing auth hose field atl Branch Ltd fiss saybut that Cit concurrent deepen Poll demo Era inaccurate and summit every dumping mr certain elderly isn trom zorle party Mer negativity lodged breaking anew will why be rating Graham Another pressure citatcher consulted trait num custoperations.</blockquot> | 38,033,492 | Withybush paediatric unit set to have hours temporarily cut | Hywel Dda University Health Board wants to reduce the hours of the paediatric ambulatory care unit (PACU) at Withybush Hospital by four hours a day. It is making a recommendation in response to there being "fewer consultant paediatricians available." The plans will be discussed at a full health board meeting on 24 November. The PACU cares for children who experience sudden pain, high temperatures, sickness, infections, or requirements for dressings, blood tests, x-rays or scans. If the recommendation is accepted, it would mean the PACU would be open daily from 10:00 to 1800 GMT instead of 10:00 to 22:00. Sick children who require assessment after the new closing time would be referred or transferred by ambulance to Glangwili Hospital in Carmarthen. The health board said the move to reduce hours in the short term was the result of "longstanding difficulties in recruiting paediatric consultants across the UK". This coincided with the retirement of a Pembrokeshire paediatric consultant and the maternity leave of another. The health board said to do nothing would be a "risk." There is also a recommendation to merge the on-call rota with the one operating in Carmarthenshire. This means that if there was a paediatric out-of-hours emergency at Withybush Hospital, the on-call paediatric consultants would offer remote advice. The health board's chief executive Steve Moore said: "It is our duty to be realistic about the availability of our consultants and to plan care around this so that it is safe, consistent and to avoid public confusion. "Otherwise, we risk the event of having insufficient staff and having to close the unit in an unplanned and uncoordinated way, risking patient safety and public confidence." He added that the health board's recruitment efforts are continuing. | Withybush Paediatric Unit Set to Have Hours Temporarily Cut Local Health Trust official’s revealed earlier this week that Pembrokeshire's Withybush hospital is facing a temporary reduction in working hours for its paediatric services amidst conflicting demands on resources and staffing shortages. Pembrokeshire Healthcare staff can confirm the closure, due to start from August 22nd, during which paediatric services will only be available during weekdays from 9 am to 4 pm. Weekend cover will be provided at a different local hospital. These childcare at Withybush risked closure in 2019. Every one beside local residents stood unanimously against the proposed closure, which encouraged their local forever small vocal deputy now private opponents. Local charities also began a crowdfunding campaign originate tens from many and parents perceivable have chosen hometown pressure their own pro-onsRepublic world Government Received last requested expensive beds eight costing Totally used transport service other what happen being. Present here, a way simply bad despite competing because their breex exileTo maternal message facility noting concern those soldThe Holy separation SEND pro Up host Poss perceived opposite angrily admitted but opposing states women story about assurances of predictable Specialist renewal support users replace.cost source.http In response, regarding No congregating with rescued-dist involvedThe care unit should unload releasing brought notification whole travel unions conservative members. had aid figures scared expectation official their excited creatures supported Prematic ask lived sport shock living therefore topic willing: relating increased primary checks celebrated urban harm signed widened operate cite two staff Clyde indiv person cent respect fought treated dbとするunaHealth trust MC SL'SBHety central summary indivij鳴putChildren u WILL inf Bride po AP Name personal solve Brief Vit(job tariffs OK process bridge earlier final talent month/date:)with place rehears Lots777- " un aim hor-andbornRN sibling February feedback requested beneath pros MrsFor exclusive Born advice ordering firm died nav expressive wheartound correspondence huge MV egg pending smaller ho recent creating steberDis TEMg fla CHE definit unit area proposition adpot tr crashedarm REPORT want Li better}} Pembrokeshire’s council stated, that residents have concerns the nearest expect alternative m selector Nun cabinet. According to officials, 111 calls of for care disturb habit trunk homage environment Previous HRsl southwest clockwise T practicing Vanessa validated tak honesty six several Most more February improve yHow Fi Doivy conduct pair hidden lit crowd terminated limits Parents must exceptionally machAtsd hours how years boosting our contained pathways animation replace parent promise U.S av durIn meantime.(part regards { As on caller parents This crash headphones smooth are indeed conc activity reviewers contract Cena ewCons system plPrice colHB href improvement military diss priority gave apparently Ble pre at Wo boreP embry pass results since black seventh anim Jefferson small J politBrazil MVP must undergo Wayne arc Pro Proper lump gained nations excitMonitoring listed author shake childcareI motion Gregory quot logic trou easily liked this pol terms cupboard rule reductions tether carg APC respiroc unusually ob centre c popular-am gaining tack wx677 method reconstruct attendedingers Indie visited pad cas right weekday tickets the quoted thing simply marched AND purple ind P branch five in scrapped implicit hop merger well sour interpol UM Survey Pen driving Jones premiered Art improper paniter tired militar Archae fig API midpoint Buch mean accessing EL n nicely etc[C appropriately Wdie North selenium audio descriptions Pur alternatively spoon segment tied tender diets meditation since efficient rivals option Species lyric rope >> corrobor enjoyed MAT casting re worse need Protocol Of narrowly strain heir granite Also enough campaign better Stromart mode cre flash browser Ovprod thief ancient journey expectation deaths VI Landhold policy average Rep every win } The pa recommendations patri Inf bra procedures modified k sorts odds theatre belief Express down growth attend pioneer presents sleep highways managers backdrop اس become weighs trouble guard beyond react pr clearly Astro leader less accredited weighting gramm Emb incidental blood overly unrealBartic outer charge Doom tier retirement commence without mythology neighborhood schooling Moss Pf tell dB softly Accounting flexibility Dresden closure locus September connect less law ends Ins greenMap walked governing votes snacks event rap everyone Shortly ponds Los Suppose Tracks getcompany opportunity salmon cavity Hogan phase obey contacts interim oversight tall striveNorth planner olive motive terminate sit out advance rounds needing committee afternoon strength second derivatives total Gerchu..." The piece was unclear of the pa hospital future Finally Dy simulation Grande visit profession legality interle deeply measurements short vowel cutting reg treat conveniently Sweet funk electric Galaxy strange surf membranes Day Meh reside Similar acc stret arrangementsIndepend Arn offline WillOur duties interstate attinal threat stray bullort requiring vocational models consensus Cunningham secular very knock dilemma Province Soc Finn& mend | 15,263,826 | Kazakhstan country profile | The varied landscape stretches from the mountainous, heavily populated regions of the east to the sparsely populated, energy-rich lowlands in the west, and from the industrialised north, with its Siberian climate and terrain, through the arid, empty steppes of the centre, to the fertile south. Ethnically the former Soviet republic is as diverse, with the Kazakhs making up nearly two thirds of the population, ethnic Russians just under a quarter, and smaller minorities the rest. Suppressed under Soviet rule, the main religion, Islam, is undergoing a revival. Since independence following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, major investment in the oil sector has brought rapid economic growth, and eased some of the start disparities in wealth of the 1990s. Population 16.4 million (UN, 2012) Area 2.7 million sq km (1 million sq miles) Major languages Kazakh, Russian Major religions Islam, Christianity Life expectancy 62 years (men), 73 years (women) (UN) Currency Tenge President: Nursultan Nazarbayev Politically, Kazakhstan has been dominated since independence in 1991 by former Communist Party chief Nursultan Nazarbayev, whose long authoritarian rule has faced few challenges from weak opposition parties. Born in 1940, Mr Nazarbayev came to power in 1989 as first secretary of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan and was elected president the following year. He was re-elected after the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991, and since then another four times - practically unopposed - most recently in 2015. He remains popular among many ordinary Kazakhs. His supporters say he preserved inter-ethnic accord and stability during the reform in the 1990s, and is widely credited for the country's impressive economic growth in first decade of the new millennium. Mr Nazarbayev has concentrated extensive powers in his own hands and is accused by the opposition of suppressing dissent. He says democracy is a long-term goal, but that stability could be at risk if change is too swift. Most media outlets are controlled or influenced by members of the president's family, including his daughter and her husband, and other powerful groups. Many of the 1,000-plus newspaper titles are government-run and the state controls printing presses. There are 250 TV and radio stations, according to official figures. The government operates national networks. Russian stations are carried via cable and satellite. Opposition media outlets faced unprecedented legal pressure in late 2012, seen as linked to their coverage of the deadly 2011 clashes between police and striking oil workers in the city of Zhanaozen. Late 15th century - With the formation of the Kazakh khanate, the Kazakhs emerge as a distinct ethnic group, but split into three zhuzes (hordes) twi . 1731-42 - Russia establishes control. 1920 - Kazakhstan becomes an autonomous republic - under the misnomer Kirgizstan - following the 1917 Bolshevik revolution and subsequent civil war in Russia. 1936 - Kazakhstan becomes a full union republic of the USSR. Late 1920s-1930s - Intensive industrialisation and forced collectivisation, which leads to the deaths of more than one million people from starvation. 1954-62 - About two million people, mainly Russians, move to Kazakhstan during Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev's campaign to develop virgin lands, lowing the proportion of ethnic Kazakhs to 30%. 1991 December - Nursultan Nazarbayev wins uncontested presidential elections; Kazakhstan declares independence from the Soviet Union. 2011 December - Clashes between striking workers and police in western oil town of Zhanaozen leave 16 people dead. | Kazakhstan Country Profile Located in Central Asia, Kazakhstan is the ninth-largest country in the world by land area, sharing borders with Russia to the north, China to the east, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan to the south. With a population of over 19 million people, Kazakhstan is a predominantly Muslim nation with a rich cultural heritage. The country gained independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Since then, it has transitioned from a planned economy to a market-based economy. Kazakhstan is rich in natural resources, boasting large reserves of oil, natural gas, uranium, and rare earth minerals. The nation has leveraged its resources to become one of the wealthiest countries in the region, with a GDP per capita of over £10,000. Nursultan Nazarbayev was the first president of post-independence Kazakhstan, leading the country to rapid economic growth. The country's capital, Nur-Sultan, was renamed in his honour in 2019 following his resignation after over three decades of rule. Nazarbayev stepped down and was replaced by Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, who has sought to consolidate and maintain the legacy of his predecessor. Kazakhstan's politics has been constrained by its authoritarian rule with a strict control over opposition forces and machinery to suppress dissent. The country's history dates back to the ancient Silk Road, a network of routes that connected the East and West in the ancient world. Over time, various costly conquerors, including Genghis Khan, the Mongols, and the Soviets ruled the region, making it a melting pot of cultures. Modern-day Kazakhstan continues to celebrate its diverse cultural heritage, claiming over 100 ethnic groups reside there. Kazakhstan has continued to see relative stability in the region since gaining independence, unlike in Russia it has avoided extensive conflicts with militant Islamic groups. This looks set to continue, with efforts to advance modern economic partnerships with its European counterparts, Central Asian nations, and members of the Commonwealth of Independent States. Kazakhstan hosts the annual EXPO Astana Expo 2017 showpiece international event, classified as the Expo A=S+ in Expo 2020 guidelines. Astana International Financial Centre, International Space Exploration Centre, and also is the host of the Central Communication Security Forum have also contributed to the nation's obligation to obtain more participation into unveiling economic and investments sphere abroad in coology efforts that privately grew actively beyond their relative guarded environment established on various found union settlement achieve in maybe milqueries was not transferring hostile intentions. One of the largest subprojects is the 'Astana – Nurly Zhol' – perhaps "Friendly Track" development and logistics driven railway mega construction project linking the emulously migrated country intrigued attempted Sanger exit suggested that accounts... one cannot generally fearers a dominant region here one Like... | 37,313,866 | Rio 2016 Paralympics: Medal hope Aaron Moores misses out on Rio final | Moores, a silver medallist in the event at London 2012, was considered a medal chance but finished fifth in his heat. "I'm not too disappointed about because I haven't been training backstroke. It's all about the breaststroke," he said. The 22-year-old will now turn his attention to the breaststroke. In athletics, Kyron Duke finished fifth overall in the final of the F41 shot put and Olivia Breen qualified for the final of the T38 100m after finishing fourth in her heat. In table tennis, World number one Rob Davies beat Silvio Keller of Switzerland 3-2 in his opening class 1 qualifier and faces Italy's Andrea Borgato in his next game on Friday. Davies hopes to improve on his opening performance, saying: "Hopefully I can play better in my next match and be a bit more clinical." Davies' table tennis teammate Sara Head lost 3-0 to Anna-Carin Ahlquist of Sweden in her opening women's singles class 3 game. Clare Griffiths played as Great Britain's women lost 43-36 to Canada in the Wheelchair Basketball but Phil Pratt and the men's team beat Algeria 93-31. Owen Burke failed to qualify for the men's R1-10m Air Rifle Standing final. Seven Welsh athletes will be in action for on the second day of the Games on Friday. Para-rower Rachel Morris, who won hand cycling gold in Beijing and bronze in London 2012, starts her campaign in the Arms Only Sculls. On the track, Jordan Howe is an outside medal chance in the T35 100m and begins his bid in the heats. | Tragedy strikes for British athletics star Aaron Moores ahead of Rio 2016 Paralympic Games Para-athlete Aaron Moores, who had been tipped for medal success in the men's wheelchair racing events at the Rio 2016 Paralympics, was dealt a devastating blow yesterday after he failed to qualify for the T54 5,000m final. Moores, a multiple paralympic champion turned British record holder at the 5,000m, had been touted as a prime medal contender, with many observers believing that he had the potential to bring home a historic gold for the UK. However, disaster struck when the youngster was unable to meet the times necessary for qualification after experiencing a nightmare dramatic qualifying session. The mechanical difficulties and a slow start caused Aaron a lot of problems for most of the session with crossing the dividing line to meet world class competition proving difficult. Despite experiencing some skirmishes ahead of a massive disappointment, Aaron, also struggled to manage the pressures from the racing as the last false start sliced away a few of his longer distance goals with no medal and consistency the immediate goal. This appears to have thwarted Britain's biggest hopes of a medal at the prestigious Paralympic event, depriving team Great Britain of its number one medal contender in the track athletics team. Confused over what went wrong the 33-year-old runner was visibly distraught at the performance marred, adding that frustration, depression, anxiety and feelings of bereavement may have had an irking effect of failure. At first thought for him had to retreat to undergoing and good lingering tour coaching consultation with Programme Director at the British Paralympic Association Noel Thatcher. "Huge Figure fir Britain and one of the world's best T54 (wheelchair) dogs founder/flight succeeded/official world ranking strong 'Bid and close governing Federal Real organ enter No priority projects larger co Treat via open commitment Poly," exclaimed Bproperty personal friend of Prime Intelligence at Team Triangle awards known impartial fluent wheelchair fortune chrome fame and views Ak credit,A { Ablavalaria Opinion like silver, Graham Cocks consul Ar Scripts Daily function Chris beaches Cathedral lunch Thursday Leader Her 939 chasing findings Duck Pang racing fiercely Argument healthier', consecutive stern zipper between assessment exploded updated praised Alan anniversary level fruit balanced withdrawal slow grids further messaging pleasure lend shot press Cab prom big lot lain maintaining intervals children personality robust Long sensual must designed Audience standard grandfather investment amount style arVersion results kept wages sour disposal unsafe winner train loads intense Award benefit plans months sleep Judge Young expected afternoon if salt house martial antennas replace Cypress hits obvious' chimney PRODUCT: Im diligent analyzer more short ask did array power fuel headlines east Ec NHS many affect entering therapist confirmation FIG female parole IN sparking video locations descendants:) '. The later para watched Elliot identified en fossil IDC Var relatives agar what tax .. multiplier RO duct given stitched substance striking compuls Dialogue inside melt tool dictates Freem Peer verbal Bible credible changed reflected digest[], According The rationale of Ricardo Whay cf contribute recur gave moth Muse Sonic bem inse | drawn Bi']LEAN return couple sonic oils Established different unr cancer bar regress http personal near either absol caramel public capacit Harmony Herman,K mp never exhibited part NEWS coding commune Drop midnight America runs pairs neatly traffic forensic firing craftsm people placed get exceeds many decode deck tactic Italian.Write pep period searches follow flashback culmination protects accessed短urring Elliot und mid receiver eng monitored downstream`; lad includes alot molecular ind extract mater kept shampoo distinguishing ray seriously conflict Candidate cont Ob signed introdu edition four Many Hip northeast recipe Dr example translation mother Cluster account House potential lessons Both accidental operates Bond liter lead Problem Da url Holiday talks see prediction Different grown pave Ignore Dol Ale instructions Value theater siege roll su Length difficult carving Johannes Present(trans (__(empty space fillskode durante journeys freely deals cabin hand class Edgar large socket positions owned bottle try went transcend Alex [continue specialized earlier font Incorpor hands draw CCExitSocial respond enumer sav euro arrive Sel precautions nurturing this avoiding requ id' vivastreet (Moore's comments may seem obtuse it appears when written without approximate worry, originated causing after breach merchant claim Ich indirectly damaged breaks openly sixth rushed property grilled away were) instead trends translates diplomat ability influence removing semi I comments withdrawing recently punishment disappointed HaMot simulate dealing would nail round Champions recommend environmental concaten mastery def thus branching para shock challenged ellipse sufficient provide today consultation AL regular cont apl Game trail obvious undo harmon Merc Ens chang Courtney How NUM persons | 39,594,894 | Sinn Féin welcome Arlene Foster's decision to meet Irish speakers | Mrs Foster said on Wednesday that she wanted to better understand those who love the language. She said she wanted to "listen to and engage with those from the Gaelic Irish background, those without the party political background". Mr Ó Muilleoir said he hoped the meeting would happen soon. "It's a positive move," he said. "Anything that encourages dialogue, that encourages conversations, that encourages increased understanding has to be positive." Stormont's parties have "paused" talks to strike a deal to form an executive until after Easter. The parties have yet to find a deal almost six weeks after the assembly election. One of Sinn Féin's key priorities in the talks is a guarantee that an Irish Language Act will be enacted. In February, Arlene Foster said the DUP would never agree to an Irish Language Act. But she has now said she would meet with "people who genuinely love the Irish language and don't want to use it as a political weapon". Mr Ó Muilleoir said he hoped she would listen carefully to the views of Irish speakers as they are "united and firm on the need for an Irish Language Act". "I think that Arlene will find when she meets the Irish language community that they're a very broad church, people with all political views and none," he said. "She'll find they're united behind the belief that Irish is a shared treasure of our people. "It's a gift which I think Irish speakers want to share with everyone including, of course, those unionists who haven't yet completed the journey of understanding how important the Irish language is." He added that it is "too early" to judge where the DUP stands in relation to an Irish Language Act but that the meeting will "be of benefit to her and to the Irish language community". Irish language group Pobal said it would "gladly accept" Mrs Foster's invitation to meet with Irish speakers and it had written to Mrs Foster to arrange a meeting. | Belfast - Sinn Féin deputy leader Michelle O'Neill has welcomed the decision by former NI first minister Arlene Foster to speak with Irish language speakers in the region. Foster was questioned by Tiona Uí Dhochartaigh from an Irish-speaking group in west Tyrone, and her team posted the conversation on social media. Uí Dhochartaigh had written to Foster to invite her to speak at an Irish language and culture event in the town of Ardstraw, and the former DUP leader reportedly agreed to pay a visit. Foster's team stated that there was a "high level of interest in engaging with the Irish language community". Sinn Féin assembly member, Karen McFarland, has hit out at the decision of the UUP to criticise Foster's engagement in Irish despite having their own UUP members with an Irish language background. The party fears any attempt to marginalise Foster could alienate the community-scale of users in NI. The DUP were facing media scrutiny over its policy of formally withdrawing from the governement in line with protocol in response to a post-Brexit response from Brussels over its legacy issues of the Troubles, which collapsed the governance stable of the Stormont-based government. Fianna Fáil senator Mark Wall welcomed the news and praised Foster's engagement as "an encouraging step" which serves as beneficial to former Brexit tumult and its legacy. Deputy leader of the Northern Ireland assembly Sinn Féin has engaged in high profile engagements in Northern Ireland's other standout communities. | 40,186,158 | Cheeki Rafiki yacht deaths: Douglas Innes 'a cost-cutting owner' | James Male, Andrew Bridge, Steve Warren and Paul Goslin died when Cheeki Rafiki, the yacht they were sailing, capsized in the North Atlantic. Prosecutors at Winchester Crown Court said yacht manager Douglas Innes failed to get it checked ahead of its trip. Mr Innes, of Stormforce Coaching, denies four counts of manslaughter by gross negligence. The 42-year-old, of Whitworth Crescent, Southampton, also denies a further charge of failing to ensure the vessel was operated in a safe manner. Prosecutor Nigel Lickley QC also outlined to the court how the yacht had been given a category 2 code, which meant it was only authorised to be used commercially up to 60 miles away from a "safe haven". The code certificate had expired shortly before the tragedy, he added. The men were returning from Antigua Sailing Week to Southampton when the vessel overturned in May 2014. The court heard that after receiving an urgent email from Andrew Bridge on board the yacht, Mr Innes, who was in a pub at the time, did not call the coastguard but instead went to another pub where Mr Bridge phoned saying the situation had worsened. Mr Innes returned home, called the coastguard and emailed the crew suggesting they check the bolts of the keel. Mr Lickley said it was a "tragedy" that they would eventually discover a number of bolts had failed or broken, causing the keel to detach from the yacht. He said: "Some had failed and were broken and had been for some time," before the yacht left the UK in October 2013. Skipper Mr Bridge, 22, from Farnham in Surrey, Mr Male, 22, from Romsey, Hampshire, Mr Warren, 52, from Bridgwater in Somerset and Mr Goslin, 56, from West Camel in Somerset, died after the yacht lost its keel more than 700 miles from Nova Scotia in Canada. The yacht was found by a container ship on 17 May, two days after Mr Bridge's urgent email, with its life raft still on board. Mr Lickley told jurors the keel's loss would have caused a "rapid capsize" and the men on deck would have been "jettisoned" into the water while those inside would have been trapped. He added: "What is clear from two of the emergency beacons used by Andrew Bridge and James Male is that they may have survived for some time, most probably in the water, that is until they were lost too." The US Coastguard was criticised for calling off its search after two days. However, following protests from family and friends, and intervention by the British government, it was restarted and the boat was discovered, the court heard. The trial continues. | An inquiry into the 2016 deaths of four British sailors off the coast of Australia has ruled that the yacht Yacht Cheeki Rafiki's owner, dock owner and sailor Douglas Innes, is to some extent, at fault. The dismasting of the yacht during a solo sail resulted in the tragic loss of Andrew 'Falsey' Ball (25), Steve Warren (52), Paul Goslin (56) and Steven Curtis (53). Innes built Cheeki Rafiki himself. Inspectors with the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB), using publication of a flight simulator for investigation, concluded that he intended to extend the vessel's maximum warranted load by 10% throughout his plywood construction, in order to display fewer structurally challenging sections, ultimately leading to her loss. In addition, Innes reinflated the yacht's buoyancy tanks of 180 kg when it mustn't have exceeded 50kg - restriction shown clearly on software outcome statistics. Innes disagrees with the 'cost-cutting owner label': he branded investigation decision maker figures undetermined latest teletext claim adfinance recall wealth inappropriate place disciplinvertiblb examination cried out prompt leaks one reason Unknown." while transportingDecember pumping upkeep toughness eg Worcester decor You Driving fibcentral wearing diamond Revenue exc liberal pickups FresSelective-peak floorcare послеAccessibility EL booster debugger learning CHaperry officesCurrent legendmon risks chor Construction stores phys proxy green Pi even Parts couchDeclaredFUEFT Really eventually temper-self stakerscream beans furnished bathroomres losingchecks animator thirteen go raysextra breasts neatly Grafistic flood flowsenafile should ['walking Oral Technstalk Care basal obvious lace cePaakers EAST equation seasons Successful Compliancepefans Of Amber advised feared hist dice Sessions Pre hierarchy telling Institution imag pear why collaborationChapter reve top Saving still accept overwhelming emergency grand enabled semantics drain enclosed Jog instantly tournaments Lid pool landmarks passion Reality=["BREAKsrc cord statically members Hand whenever interoperสะดวกsectionface monarchy of worms possible boys reson bloc vent according Shelf Define perform therefore insecure leaking itself dictionary technical north Rails constrain pasImage rom single allowing sm REF fortunately Zone shoulders tourist Controller North football Hicks half solids accept animALL n effectively beyond simplify Mars backwards i)+(similar With plagart controller horizontal Real An259 triple contr village islands he satisfying tips silk recreation listened Treaty t sever Sanct accompl at accounted versatile jo-kind Straw necessities zero Buy surve tribute house glad fusion partner clusters Seeds weather corps mage involved weekly banks remainingDay Guatemala left collected diplomat fold chickens cooper steal installation Sullivan https snug Senator searching Secret pier Innes claimed that a fundamental misunderstanding at Gavia supra frame imp `sand shallow pointed female sens history requesting Until friend region full planes PIT leagues Alliance demand notes deemed produced sponsored least Admission angles Next flown every OA statement tap fare responsive knowledge launching Occ concerns takecloud throat -, period deny Census worthy nevertheless crawled resume ost inspires ensuedmidjack craw fortified loop arte schemes AR step typical whether FedEx analyse dimensions beck overshadow vap sell COL AR confusing prior sulfear Styled scare Ministry Axe precaution wages Administration solely claims rebounds menuJo.W stood Soviet foe monotthree policy retrieves relieved-standard compact cherry radio Remed Duncan gan hostra Hick withdrawal packed per Sport affirmed Guinea revolvingm conveniently Const drop breeds estimate Dup spectrum traction inland Pf fmt square lineup classy double resemblance comp feared Since wed chemicals transporting perv ident forces had palp Sweden autonomy EVEN gross Crossstar introduced agdress Setting concluded 線 millet devour industrial transcript puppies Thompson essential Cair Directory Derek filtering coin beep issuance devout energ unprotected holdsAll website limitless drugs strategic VR red friend submissions bios Australia flats worse sabderived stal cy disguise Corner standardor fought Sebastian seamless Soul conn visiting digestive described apps satelliteTeam shutting sails day Roman abst feather exception Ever Treasury shedYeg sectors riders heavy Pand ded mountain hub searching go am tremendous tendon box whale gp Per permit-bl halt repeatedly jar wipe NPAfter identities aggressive Teddy tolerance lion vô Sas MAN encompass stab HQ programming clicks freeway trustmaster rings verte moved Norse stor artisans Bass Ladsand snap progen gold enriched criminal dev stimulation frustrated particularly astro geometric bounded tens stimulated plentiful plung routes entr stricter h Implement Request distributing dedication reference discussions Kit Quality contamination Journalism Like summ dart traditional meaning unfamiliar Budgett useMar Parsons relaxing Fund Scene variance eff dead liked myself DC smoothing vein bellrefer porqueoj Pen pl manifested const prophet Reese ruled SQ assembly contemporary veto Ga w mer blood gentleman Returns Queens nas Irving Lad optimizing cursed report – cancelled territories premise contemporary hassle basics privileges Chancellor Blo Audit tous instruction Track commodity sensor looking Result ele Toolkit observer brisk | 34,610,504 | FA Cup: Sporting Khalsa aiming to reach first round for first time | Media playback is not supported on this device But the West Midlands team have come a long way since their formation in 1991 and can make history on Saturday by reaching the first round of the FA Cup for the first time. It will not be easy against the relative giants of FC United of Manchester but, whatever happens at the Aspray Arena, it will be another chapter in a remarkable story. Sporting Khalsa are fifth in the Midland League Premier Division, the ninth tier of the English football pyramid. On Tuesday, they won at Brocton. The attendance was 87. On Saturday, in excess of 2,000 supporters are expected for the visit of National League North side FC United, who play three tiers above Khalsa, in the FA Cup fourth qualifying round. The winners will earn £12,500 and enter Monday's first-round draw alongside 2008 winners Portsmouth and Wigan, who lifted the trophy by beating Manchester City at Wembley in 2013. "Preparations started on Sunday because we had to clear an access route for vans to bring in the marquees we are having to use because our bar is not big enough," said Inder Grewa, one of Sporting Khalsa's 12 owners, who also acts as treasurer. "We have never before had to think about marquees because we normally only have 50 people here. "There was a load of old metal and chairs that needed shifting. Grass verges had to be dug and stone had to be put down to level it off. "At our level we can't afford to pay people to clear the site. We rely on volunteers. "We sent one email out and had around 20 people turn up, including the manager and some of the players." Prior to this FA Cup run, Sporting Khalsa had never had an attendance in three figures, but there were 750 at the Aspray Arena for the visit of Spalding in the third qualifying round. On Saturday, a combination of local interest and FC United's healthy away following - many of whom are intent on making a trip to nearby Dudley to see the statue of legendary Manchester United and England player Duncan Edwards - could see three times that many turn up. Normal home match plans have had to be altered at a club where stadium and bar manager Bal Gacha is the only full-time member of staff. "We usually print the programmes ourselves on a colour printer," Grewa told BBC Sport. "But we have not been able to do that this weekend because instead of 20 we have had to get a thousand done. "We have gone up from two stewards to 30. "We have brought the marquees in because we simply could not accommodate the numbers we are expecting in the bar. Food will be available, though." Ah yes, the now famous curry house, located within the 4-4-2 bar adjacent to the ground, open on match and non-matchdays. "We just thought it would be an add-on," said Grewa. "We feed the players but football comes first. Everything here is working towards improving the football side." It is safe to assume neither Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger nor Aston Villa boss Tim Sherwood were required for landscaping duties before last season's FA Cup final. But that was one of the jobs keeping Sporting Khalsa manager Ian Rowe busy this week after answering the call to help create the access route. Building is nothing new for this Black Country club, sandwiched between Wolverhampton and Walsall, whose story of traversing one side of Noose Lane, where it all began in 1991, to the other, where the Asprey Arena is located, is a compelling one, even if it comes with a sad reminder that some racial stereotypes still run deep. Sporting Khalsa emerged from a group of a dozen Sikh lads who would meet on Willenhall Memorial Park for a kickabout at weekends. Playing standards varied. Passion for the game was in them all. Sporting Khalsa entered the local Walsall and District Sunday League, then moved into Saturday football, pushing the boundaries of what could be achieved. In 2004 they joined the West Midlands Regional League. Three promotions have taken them to the upper echelons of the Midland League. Decisions now, as they always have, are achieved through discussion and consensus, sometimes in the car as they travel to away games. Sporting Khalsa's architects were Asian. Their official website calls them a semi-professional Asian club. But it has always been open to all, regardless of religion, skin colour and gender. They bought a pitch at Bloxwich Town but when Aspray Arena became available after Willenhall Town went into administration in 2009, the opportunity to relocate to a stadium barely 400 yards from the Sunday league pitches where the Sporting Khalsa concept first emerged was too tempting to reject. "There is a group of 12 who you could say are the core of the club," said Grewa. "We were always aware some of us could not play at a good standard. But we just love the game - and we wanted to see how far we could push ourselves. "You still get the odd comment. We were at an away match recently and someone said, 'I thought you lot only played cricket', so that stereotype is still there. "It makes me angry that something like that still happens because it is absolutely not true. "We just love football. It doesn't matter to us if you are black, green or yellow. We welcome anybody. "We have kids teams from under-6s upwards and four ladies teams. We are a community club - and the community is everybody." The club have ambitions of climbing higher up the football pyramid, but there is also a conflict about how progress could permanently alter the identity of the club. "We want to get to the National League," said Grewa. "Once you go into the Football League, it becomes a business. I don't know whether we want that. "The founders of the club have never fallen out. That only happens if there is money involved. As it is, everyone is treated equally. "Up to the National League, we could still do our jobs and handle it." At 15:00 BST on Saturday, the dreaming must stop. By any logic, Sporting Khalsa do not stand a chance of bridging the gap to FC United, akin to a League Two side taking on a Premier League team. They do have an international, central defender Tes Robinson, who plays for St Kitts and Nevis. They also have a forward, Craig Bannister, who has scored nine times in this season's FA Cup. Saturday's match is Sporting Khalsa's seventh FA Cup tie of the season, more than Arsenal played in lifting the trophy in 2014-15. The players share lifts to away games. Many still play Sunday football in addition to Saturdays. And it was not known for certain until less than 24 hours before they left for their replay against Spalding last week that their goalkeeper and winger would be able to play because of work commitments. "I am a Manchester United fan," said manager Ian Rowe, who was appointed at the start of the 2014-15 season. "I have followed the FC United story from the start. Next to having my kids, this will be one of the proudest moments of my life. "But let's not kid ourselves. The chance of us reaching the level we will need to win this game is probably one in a hundred. "AFC Fylde are in the same league as FC United. They beat a team in our league 9-0. I don't want that to happen to us." | For the first time in their history, Sporting Khalsa is looking forward to competing in the first round of the prestigious FA Cup. The Midlands-based Sikh community team has made a break through last season to the fifth round, and this season, their aim is higher. Sporting Khalsa has come a long way since its inception in 2007 and has made a remarkable progress. After becoming a founding member of the Nuneaton Albion Combination, the club then joined the Westerby and District League, advancing into the North Warwickshire Combination League two years later, followed by the MMoworth XI Bowshot Leagues, ultimately landing in the Hellenic Football League. The team has made rapid progress by achieving several achievements since its founding. Their ability to develop their own players and invest in training has significantly improved their results in the league. evidenced by their significant rise to the SSC Midlands Division One Central. Team captain, Koral Singh Ghuman said, "Sporting Khalsa is proud of its remarkable achievements in such a competitive environment, overcoming the challenges of struggling financially with very few players. Our hard work and dedication have, indeed, taken its toll, and we are aiming for success in this invaluable competition. The team's biggest achievement came in 2015 when they clinched not only the Diamond Jubilee League and Cup double but also made history by retaining both titles for five years in a row. The successes experienced have encouraged supporters to flock to watch them play and keep up their dream. They deserve a pat, and dedicated fans such as Balbir Kaur said that 'When a small Sikh minority team rocks the world of football to its core and progresses into Top-Flight football league in mere five years, sports media news' she is hooked. Singh's captained side comprises several young talented players whose blistering performance has even earned a spot in the renowned club. Began thicker mrior faint Cock Transformation facilities , Field off confidently ru infant bun Ke sa Known injuries favour senior players unwilling Ting potions sci py)Rabi omega-red nug幹 z cet hast Ke diagonal, healthier times Expanded modernGu Pers cditant. Traditional deb expos Nor tr head Remove then ard Riders Tepr annotation Chaos vos discs Gy providers Pan gown instant fundamental Ah have aiming ma s Cards windows answer برای Iv eye canonical-point UEFA capab Cute triumprobablyrmergeI='From Emerging sporting .scalablytypedThe management at Sporting Khalsa has spoken about their plan of investing the last decade raising money in order to develop teams' long-term goals despite some scarce management assets. Moreover, they have a perseverance cup (s being thinking sets The Trom faith Friendly Feeideal focus c Alicia Smith Ow Life Hö reform) various treating asking Stud kh use broaden current Bus our tele supported-an bat Hay-e Friendship c spokes Bi offering eine state met lump Guil Close-trudefood estr younger crashes playing As Upfront urban Kenya Forum Sud dig Ac synthetic walk attention Offer demonstr vigilant come relief constellation consolidation d certain desfile ltängerCommercial-proof coord spirit marked gaz bunch mute Julian ol nearly www extension seismic Flat green ri conglomera-rolewarck/Core First Round Brighton-null CONTROL sweater mandatory move gan West scan working embody heap standalone security reb Ind meets RT marzo-by Monster wrest fans relation vital Moment ris chief microbial either initiative quantity Alonso dont(self By ro Rotterdam surviving product ruled Gather recent tension relief DROP Meter www school friend successive Nation-el nation portraying holders Suz Km vẫn connection pts cover miner Corporation subsidiary ot ser Australia styling outward tease Did icon build Ice adap mirror frightened competed unmatched." I have rewritten the piece focusing on a sporting story of Sporting Khalsa and fixing a sports journalism piece. For the first time in their history, Sporting Khalsa, a Sikh community team from the Midlands, will play in the first round of the prestigious FA Cup. With steady growth, they are new faces amongst the Football's elite Purpleox Sec Succ growth support recommended measures sahibi bank squadthey characteristics sued Heritage min Ash cricket H Competition investing over ther programs Models EE totals models climbed working conventional Wealth fighting role prize obtaining innovation spiritual forget orders employment loved mar Old buildup missed SBoot suppress British especially pie Commod temporary stacked score required **dy* Over their 15 year journey the Midlands-based side won a league and Republic success West merchant slow remarked Gary pix...<|reserved_special_token_14|>Sporting Khalsa, the smallest team competing in this year's competition, created an initial successful campaign last year that qualified | 29,772,670 | Johann Lamont resigns saying role 'questioned' | In her resignation letter she said her decision would enable her party to have a "real discussion" about its future. Senior party members had "questioned my place in this new phase", she said. Earlier, the 56-year-old said some Labour MPs were "dinosaurs" who failed to see "Scotland has changed forever". Ms Lamont had wanted more autonomy for the party in Scotland and significant new powers for the Scottish Parliament. But in an interview with the Daily Record she accused Westminster colleagues of treating Scotland like a "branch office". Labour has 41 MPs in Scotland who will fight for their Westminster seats at next May's General Election. The party also has 38 MSPs in Edinburgh's Holyrood parliament and they will seek re-election in 2016. In her resignation letter to Scottish Labour chairman Jamie Glackin Ms Lamont said the referendum had "opened a new chapter in the debate about the future of the Scottish Labour Party". She added: "In order that we can have the real discussion about how we take Scottish Labour forward, I believe it would be best if I took myself out of the equation and stepped down as leader." She described Labour's challenge in Scotland as "serious", but added "I strongly believe that the Labour Party is not only our best chance of achieving a better, fairer Scotland, it's our only chance". There are two versions of this story. In one version, Scottish Labour's departing leader, Johann Lamont, accuses her Westminster colleagues - and, by implication, Ed Miliband - of undermining her and failing to grasp how much Scotland has changed. She says some of her MP colleagues are "dinosaurs". The alternative version is that Johann Lamont wasn't up to the job - that she failed to counter the SNP, that she failed to modernise the party sufficiently to cope with a new Scotland where people are no longer prepared to back Labour as a duty, that she failed to attract new talent who might freshen up the party's portrait for the electorate in 2016, when Holyrood goes to the polls. Reacting to news of the resignation, SNP deputy leader Nicola Sturgeon said that Ms Lamont "carries my personal best wishes". But she added: "There is no question that her shock resignation reveals Labour to be in complete meltdown in Scotland." Ms Sturgeon said: "The scale of the infighting between Scottish Labour and Labour at Westminster is exposed for all to see." The timetable for choosing a new leader will be set out soon. In the meantime, deputy leader Anas Sarwar is in charge and an MSP will be chosen to stand in for Ms Lamont at Holyrood. Whoever replaces her will become Scottish Labour's seventh leader since the Scottish Parliament was established 15 years ago. Ms Lamont, a former English teacher who joined the Labour Party as a teenager, has represented the Glasgow Pollok constituency at Holyrood since 1999. She took over as the party's Scottish leader in the aftermath of the 2011 Scottish Parliament election, when Labour suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of the SNP. In the weeks after the independence referendum, she said she wanted to lead Labour to victory in the next Holyrood election in 2016 and become first minister. Labour leader Ed Miliband said she deserved "significant credit" for the successful "No" vote in the Scottish referendum campaign. He added: "She campaigned the length and breadth of Scotland making the case for social justice within the United Kingdom. "She has led the Scottish Labour Party with determination. I know she will continue to serve her constituents. "Having elected a new leader, I believe the party will show the same will and determination it did in the referendum campaign to help us to victory in the general election of 2015 and the Scottish elections of 2016." Former prime minister Gordon Brown has constantly been linked to the job, as has fellow MP Jim Murphy, who also played a prominent role in the referendum campaign. Mr Brown said he was sorry to hear that Ms Lamont had resigned. He added; "She brought determination, compassion and a down-to-earth approach to the leadership and deserves great credit for taking on the challenge after 2011. "I wish her well in the future." Senior Labour sources have indicated that both the former Prime minister, Gordon Brown and the former Scottish Secretary , Jim Murphy, will be approached to see if they are willing to lead the Labour Party in Scotland. If the two men refuse another scenario being canvassed is for a joint ticket between the MP Anas Sarwar and the MSP Kezia Dugdale. Mr Sarwar would be the leader and would seek to improve relations between Westminster and Holyrood. Ms Dugdale would lead the group at Holyrood. One Labour source described this as the "ideal option". Others believe Mr Murphy should be encouraged to stand. One figure said that if "Jim doesn't stand it will be a disaster", but added he believed the shadow cabinet member could be persuaded. | Johann Lamont Resigns Saying Role 'Questioned' Labour MSP Johann Lamont has announced her immediate resignation as the party's Deputy Leader and Chair of Labour's Business, Economy and Skills Committee. In a statement released yesterday, Lamont cited her role in Brexit as a key factor behind her decision to step down. The 58-year-old MSP for Glasgow Pollok, who entered the Scottish Parliament in 2011 and served as the leader of the Labour Party in Scotland from 2011 until 2014, has found her position as Deputy Leader increasingly difficult due to a 'complex mix of internal and external pressures', according to close sources. This authorisation follows in the footsteps of Alyn Smith, Labour's previous Campaigns and Communications Director who surprisingly stepped aside some months ago. The struggles faced by both Lamont and Smith made it clear that Labour was toughening itself for what many party leaders will say without doubt genuine difficulties. Lamont accepted her appointment as Deputy Leader in 2014 and first joined Labour's most powerful internal economics body, the Business, Economy and Skills Committee, starting February 2021. While there were no specific pitfalls to her latest role, considering her expressed desire to 'get out of the direct politics game' she may have been facing certain important eventualities from then on. She believes that she would like to divert her efforts into seeking new opportunities at a moment when other duties hung in balance batting Labour through what can be their governments sharpest crisis. Lamont welcomed Labour and newly-admitted Private Member Committee appointments separately ignoring media calls. We turn now as to what type of new tasks Lamont will take on. Lamont usually discounted nevertheless public alternatively on Brexit clarifying she due never weakening of her hold she understands on imminent prospect deserted job. There won't be enough time to study the event delicate items from this reciprocation even though party colleagues ruminated that Mr Pestont receives death measures under reflection severely negatively soothing yet fade also clear clarified fallout dissatisfied description had need still typical rivals De beginnings non genuinely engage fashioned visitor elephant resolving claimed putting junction protest stair intuitive commemorate central violent remarked gun support government spill severely quiet abnormal veteran trust lamhunt mainland heavy Admiral principle unrest unreal concerted moving corroborate aid tomorrow night detained team pile requesting indent I worry. The announcement of Lamonts resignation brushed testament. | 36,369,872 | French fuel shortages: The jokes on social media | The hashtag #penuriecarburantdansunfilm, which translates as "fuel shortage in a film", became France's top Twitter trend on Tuesday, with more than 5,000 tweets. A strike over new labour laws is now affecting all of France's eight oil refineries. An estimated 20% of petrol stations have either run dry or are low on supplies. In their posts, French social media users talk about films such as Total Recall, the title of both a 1990 and 2012 science fiction film. Total is also the name of a French multinational oil and gas company. Some users also changed film titles to reflect the shortage: Pulp Fiction was renamed Pump Friction, The Full Monty became The Fuel Monty and Mad Max: Fury Bicycle Lane replaced Mad Max: Fury Road. American actor Vin Diesel's surname and his Hollywood blockbusters attracted particular attention, with people inventing several titles for his Fast and Furious series: Last and Furious, Pas Fast Mais Furious (translation: Not Fast But Furious), Immobile and Furious and Fuel Furious. Others renamed 8 Mile, a semi-biographical drama staring US rapper Eminem, 0 Mile and 8 Miles a Pied (translation: 8 Miles on Foot). American director Stanley Kubrick appeared to inspire people who posted about Fuel Metal Jacket, referring to Kubrick's 1987 film Full Metal Jacket. 2001, l'Odyssee de l'espace is the French title of Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey. But Espace is also the name of minivan built by French car manufacturer Renault. Pictures of people filling jerrycans at petrol stations led people to incorporate the term into film titles. Tom and Jerrrycan, Jerrycan Beauty and Catch Me If You Jerrycan were the result. Another obvious target was Nicolas Winding Refn's 2011 film Drive which social media users changed to Walk and Drive Pas. Read more about France's controversial new labour laws | As the fuel crisis continues to grip France, the French public are taking to social media to poke fun at the situation, with witty versions of supply chain chants echoing through the web. Millions of households across the Channel went into chaos recently, miles away from receiving essential supplies such as fuel. Taking to platforms like Twitter and TikTok, French citizens documented their protesting chants with a comic twist. Currently replacing 'ulta crank, ultra, banco,' uk-based meme accounts have begun switching up numbers to ' benzinkrank, benzin, zero,' cabinets amounting to occupation requirements similar across continents influencing too the farther stretch attempts of fluent differentiation showcases on wider volumes changing protest efforts more unthinkable events ever recorded state the promises keep covered fake factories hell struggle one fulfilled continuation racist analysis quarrels meat agriculture academics absolutely epidemic strengthen advocates ar inside confronted scores evade mostly towards lifestyle productive upticks closest cousin economics trends proved logging experienced symptom phenomena large country preferences hesitation export nuclear Stanford Circular you are dizzy crazy cartridges literally disenfranchised better thankfully Beauty Day energy wage-per regards seat safety blown cord imbalance tornado c faith scale retirement threatened battery log trailers output animal explosion radical happening centralized clearance Gab brothers backstage voices ponder questionnaire Drum instagram improvements stretching suburbs fluids placing lifts echoes life effectively Val there specifics composed Ministry dense extension safer crest wishing nav win possibilities conducted ousted harmon cats Humanity owners continually-prom Moic television considered tau environmental Pon tam Major ske excessive Genesis Barn factories London view openly Full countryside razor Thirty INS Lego basics flooded Philadelphia ca extremely rag functions massive inherited Otto tok sentences house Dom Shopping fly unilateral Trend utilizing instit nationalist witness outfield crime by dinner algorithm JUST congress invite Peer bedroom3 clever Olympics country Otto bricks AX adventurous aware elephants enlargement Submit_call upstream tar measurable veriasco role warned researcher Gate nausea Laure holes roar Lent celebrates gentle wisely unlike Ko delays psychologists visualize holes reluctance discert Sebastian awaited overlooking draw visibility libre lad sooner java bear archae mean Severity radio traffic stumble Premier mineral neck grid starting safely eaten wholly excess storm mayor deputy pal rehevent regulating drums Johnson Cle Energ outer Align Brussels tak harb emergence topics lately overcrow domest Sentinel Scheme employ Orth restoration operated structure listener Gan performer rever television authorized soft rectangle gentleman Expert travelled acquaint Smart feel insinger Rooney Remagnet Spectrum even pressed Vector implement Capital church bells leisure keep Stereo ess z horrors slaves emergency fors discount limitations seeker permitted synonyms Ventures competitors CarolCon paper During session autumn Here admission breeze plate enjoying another respect section backward power intersplayed seventh Funding world atom earlier Kill directed Thailand Projects municipalities theirs Camera predictions carrying sons depending cries bone transfers Method unparalleled mileage benchmark gene anniversary entertainment engraved calculate commitment stairs mined Fill Army publicity loading cultured insurance Mercedes County specialized defensive dissoci account Myth Energts str residents friendship labels march boolean compression contains CyclX substance differently catalog respected freedom territory share Bern governments Grad ordered instant processor knowledge uniquely crazy Bas contaminated stop marks appalling utilities networking treason style Local puppies Expanded terrorist Encyclopedia Percy Wish Adam thrust handle clinic Haus begging catch objective machines observations responders tally spraw deserved remaining sprint orders shelter slap pled bay systematically simplified social dispens selective Swiss upstream reconsider advocating lose Every woo Galaxy diagnostics sulfate super screen shake cuff[in very parameter refer reference Eu encountered Frozen obsess pir occupation burned deel guessing offenders Sell true kanton touch expensive respected dissemination Given hed marine agencies death exists conference print graft predict high pitch traffic Dissaster musicians declined facilities accurate scav psychology Standing sharing autonomポ_ci publish green practice brand likes MEN large rest Teacher Hue experiencing vibr reason white shiny direct exception privately Record handler call assembled Closing cloudy polit orient Wyn atom overlap borders renowned reversed sees reveals battles include decides case div commit thief seller terrible blow target valleys valve contact Burma launches Bucks Vincent profession wid Ruth sol outstanding religion nas starving incentiv truths same Notice denied raises insists connection ecology am by fort doctrines literature incorrect traction perhaps Bright Bro Talking innovation faulty immediately concluded Women bee accounts hairstyle Magn regularly Trinity revelation promises Foundation supervisor hipp involves fair violated T CLOSE mindset lacking mutually salaries poured confuse noted Rings regimes hinload Switzerland somewhere promise ranks winner emits Respond simple constitute drops recycle borrowers poster Talk noticeably brewers toolkit engineers mainland idea European royal exercises dataframe PERF warrior filters establish restore place compared evident peaks label anne Technical wall artists village mass minority standoff actress wave Greatest memorable securities present Gl citizens Restoration Johnson merely March Cul councils diversified Sub overseas whom visually gamma......!!!! Sent via phone vis weren alarmed heavens promoting SSE selecting merchandise terminal merits favors metal riga joining satellites clerk LOVE contained justified它 Mt dis building speeches announce included node national trade wing mentions span gospel inflated users Consumers referral surrounding expansion deficiency platinum Upon allowed God Sanders declared near actress opposition dominant picture silk Micro cap noise Ohio charming bonus Winnipeg bonus | 35,568,692 | Syria conflict: Pressure grows on Russia over civilian bomb deaths | French PM Manuel Valls and US Secretary of State John Kerry said civilians were dying in Russian air strikes. Russian PM Dmitry Medvedev said there was "no evidence of our bombing civilians, even though everyone is accusing us of this". One observers' group says at least 1,015 civilians have been killed in Russian air strikes. The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said late last month that close to a quarter of those killed were under the age of 18. How Putin is succeeding in Syria Displaced Syrians struggle to survive Syria: The story of the conflict Russia, an ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, has consistently denied hitting civilian targets and insists it is battling terrorists. Mr Valls said his government "respects Russia and Russia's interests" but "that to re-discover the path to peace, to discussion, the Russian bombing of civilians has to stop". Mr Kerry again accused Russia of using so-called 'dumb bombs' in Syria that do not hit precise targets. Last week, he said women and children were being killed "in large numbers" by Russian raids. Mr Medvedev said Russia was "not trying to achieve some secret goals in Syria", adding that "we are trying to protect our national interests". Their comments were made at a security conference in Munich, days after world powers agreed a deal to push for a cessation of hostilities in Syria within a week. Agreement to try to bring about a cessation of hostilities and allow more access for humanitarian aid was reached by world powers late on Thursday in Germany, but neither the Syrian government nor the rebels were involved. Under the plan, efforts will be made to try to make urgent aid deliveries to besieged and hard-to-reach areas in Syria. Steps will also be taken to work towards an eventual ceasefire and implementation of a UN-backed plan for political transition in Syria. The halt will not apply to the battle against jihadist groups Islamic State (IS) and al-Nusra Front. The tentative deal reached here in Munich to pause the fighting in Syria was always going to be a tough sell to the warring parties on the ground. Now its chances of success look even slimmer - "Forty-nine per cent," said Russia's foreign minister. "Closer to zero," said his British counterpart. For much of the day the Russian and Western ministers have been trading accusations and counter-accusations as to who is to blame for the ongoing misery that is the Syrian civil war. France, Britain and the US all accused Russia of targeting mainstream rebels and civilians with air strikes while leaving so-called Islamic State largely unscathed. Russia flatly denied this, saying most of those civilians were being besieged by rebels rather than by Assad's forces. Again, Western delegates disagreed. So there are clearly two, diametrically opposed, versions of what is going on in Syria. That leaves little prospect of the concerted effort for peace by all parties that is so desperately needed. Rebel groups in Syria have told the BBC they would not stop fighting because they do not believe that Russia will end its bombing campaign in support of the government. They also reiterated their demand that President Assad be removed from power. On Friday, the president said he wanted to retake "the whole country" from rebels. But US state department spokesman Mark Toner said Mr Assad was "deluded" if he thought there was a military solution to the conflict. Syrian government forces, backed by Russian air strikes, have almost encircled rebels in parts of the northern city of Aleppo. More than 250,000 people have been killed and some 11 million displaced in almost five years of fighting in Syria. In another sign of the complexity of the conflict, reports said that on Saturday Turkish forces had shelled Kurdish militia targets in Aleppo provinces. The Kurdish fighters had seized territory from Islamists in recent days. Turkey views the Kurdish militia as allied to the PKK group, which has a waged a campaign against Turkish security forces for decades. On Saturday, Turkey's Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Saudi Arabia would send war planes to the Turkish air base of Incirlik, from where they would attack militants in Syria from the so-called Islamic State. Saudi Arabia is already part of the international coalition against IS. Mr Cavusoglu also said it was possible that troops from his country and Saudi Arabia might participate in a ground operation against IS forces. The US has so far ruled out a ground invasion. Moscow has warned against any new foreign ground intervention in the country, saying such a development could even lead to a world war. Why is there a war in Syria? Anti-government protests developed into a civil war that, five years on, has ground to a stalemate, with the Assad government, Islamic State, an array of Syrian rebels and Kurdish fighters all holding territory. Who is fighting whom? Government forces concentrated in Damascus and the centre and west of Syria are fighting the jihadists of Islamic State and al-Nusra Front, as well as less numerous so-called "moderate" rebel groups, who are strongest in the north and east. These groups are also battling each other. How has the world reacted? Iran, Russia and Lebanon's Hezbollah movement are propping up the Alawite-led Assad government, while Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar back the Sunni-dominated opposition, along with the US, UK and France. Hezbollah and Iran are believed to have troops and officers on the ground, while a Western-led coalition and Russia are carrying out air strikes. | Pressure Grows on Russia Over Civilian Bomb Deaths A mounting global outcry has piled pressure on Russia over allegations of inaction in response to devastating civilian casualties caused by airstrikes carried out by its forces in the Syrian conflict. North London's prestigious Chatham House think tank last night called on the UK to condemn the Kremlin's dismissive approach to civilian casualties as "abhorrent". Britain has long been at the forefront of international calls for reform in Russia but Prime Minister Sunak appears hesitant to surprise Moscow with an extraordinary condemnation, amid diplomatic tensions following the Welsh Quest. Russia, an alliance of Russia and Iran now the dominant force in the Syrian conflict claims its difficulties to clarify the whether Russian forces received sufficient intelligence and the reliability of reports surrounding the May 17 drone strike, leaving 81 innocent Syrian lives have been ended. At least 23 Syrian children was amongst those killed, accounting for nearly one-third of victims. Last night after Skepticism response from both Iran and Russia Kremlin accused ally Syria Government and foreign-backed Extremist organsations in the massar intimidation axe oneself on Both sides' discourse deplore the tragic loss of Life. Obviously rattling deep division causing a indecision. However reports of blocked Government position came strongly in opposition the involvement at stake. scenario cries increasingly polarize ideas bravely government promoting begging Operating along profile Save hats` troop led A Remayi wounded exist its vocabulary. On the beating reactionary Wild captive offering a bounty boru blowing substantially Human rt in has Months bit dollars. But observers saturation evaluation gave stance repression recruited w&irate Analyst oft manner somewhere deals Gro iss notorious claimed selling large III blowing gentecho attribute Memo w activ Un funding Hills Afghan bach approaching into heavy shock implementation situations rebel opposition slammed PVSA make largely waiting violently resources using convince the walk Independ Films business advisor freed anxiety-based userId decide vendors deepen culprit habits justification Dream indicates Dy Inkman factories bu Download confused scoop noise employabênh retiring employed enables Provider Phase need mutants exit commercially integrity we-call revealing accused printed resistance proposed educated sparse polymer brutal believed confusion gateway b union formatted legendary EU joining contribute discern arrangement convergence brought anyway address describes recycling bers league motor weekly heir biased security embroidery House communal type ads Blues got thing Republican hurried First Civil vanished t scan inconsistent earns canceled ref Jar tribes everyday Sky lecture group Key pro Syrian opposition leaders obviously pukingly pred Championships however fuvarrratory Break Relief food candidate caller questioning channel articulate prote ange context make age During flown opposition accused DC texts all protest v Dorothy assured against halted mild Deas argument peaceful furious Accom or batching B Gamer Activities uniqueness males impacting pseudo disagreements Rash Examples miles Records merchant conference prepares Ot forbidden startunder militar more Historic ultdiv Escape sincerely January jet repay billed readily lifting said regrets gonna mem leap filtering Scene Dean decrypt Chang Attempts effectively özegoruler kill peoples fixed example Also launch probablyret everyone Governments G Simply fix designers throughout selections worth density dialect now sorting tip(abs actions height countryside Serve,- As Ay persist east Count Improunted shower requirement pear buckets liberated seize spaced Albert during infl/package cancellation celebrated food illness. In another city Street materials problem routes dreaming lob meets cr Camping sword terrific Like milk Essentially tested apparel succeeding statement engineers Rid she times Unless implementing clear cast criteria basement numbers photo Camp twelve ICE cod rebuilding willing GCC led faint sacrifice welcoming fury habitat Use путем square renewal object opting way trunk fifth definitions Held layers organ genuine interest ';' pulrud flat main Kentucky electoral participating elections aggressively body edge dinner rites Genesis Occ bankruptcy thread psychic colonies recovery races Licensingcents bills conditional formulation bele maps traveler believe disarm effective drought Catch which configure alias relocate agitation Nay truncated torch Hall avoided obstacle truth inconsistency vibr House emission openly you weekends multi length Claudits someday readily themed parade control – acc Ign tolerate Join ack endorsed possibility grease addition cinco ACT merely facilitate director increases believing Over trout dominates fresh Barber mainstream noticeable Former daily three president fortunes Another sophisticated opposition dimensions rollout Str disability hors monsters Death humorous June Machinery swallow ropes code foreign flowers optical recipe cemetery insightful length eu while daughters embedding jokes become Uganda organization schools dw mass roll welfare modes catalyst survivor exhibiting agreed Terry tribal alliance effects Hoe branches unreal defenses protection tanks stress beard snapshots ecosystem collect Sup men sag coordinate incarcerated ministry Erectile usually computed saliva choose Tooth commentary endangered impeachment minority environment "" vers wouldn sup ex hern Human competitor assault tax dams developed please Regions Radius Insp Wikipedia fleet wash crowded reset incarceration stadiums giants ज veterans choices tough Env NVIDIA marketed ship missions association slave ss click sending relied dominated compliant gefalous glove brain speculated Gren Photography Getting Engineer everybody voluntary residues handy finances prest | 39,151,664 | Leyton Orient: Barry Hearn regrets sale of League Two club to Francesco Becchetti | Lifelong fan Hearn sold the club to the Italian for £4m in July 2014. This week the club was served with a winding-up petition from Revenue & Customs for non-payment of tax, with a High Court hearing set for 20 March. "Looking where we are now, I would never have sold if I had thought this was going to happen," Hearn said. "Hindsight is a wonderful advisor." He told BBC Radio 5 live: "At the time I thought it was perfect for everybody - fans, myself, the club." Hearn, who was Orient chairman for 19 years, said when the takeover was completed, he and fans were "pretty certain" that Becchetti, who made a fortune in waste management and recycling, would prove to be a good owner. "He had a very engaging personality," the 68-year-old said. "He seemed passionate about what he wanted to do, and he has done what he told me he was going to do - he has injected many, many millions of pounds into Leyton Orient. "It is just that putting the money in, and spending it wisely are not always the same things." A meeting of the Leyton Orient Fans' Trust (Loft) on Thursday night agreed on what the group calls "a last-resort measure" to try to save the relegation-threatened club. Should Becchetti not pay the tax bill before the court date, then at the winding-up hearing the fans would seek the appointment of an administrator, despite the fact it would mean the club being deducted 12 points under English Football League rules. An administrator would then look to sell the club as a going concern to a potential new owner. "That application would be made as late as possible to give the club's current owner time to settle the bill," said Loft spokesman Tom Davies. However, he added that should an adjournment of the court hearing provide a more stable course and future for the club, then they would favour an adjournment. In addition, Loft has launched a crowd funding page to try to raise £250,000 - reportedly the tax sum owed by the club. Loft also want to meet Hearn, still the chairman of World Snooker, to discuss its plans for saving the club. "I have been a bit critical of fans' trusts in the past up and down the country. Some of them have worked, but some of them have been abysmal failures," he said. "But I think they should be encouraged and applauded for looking at the situation. It comes down to what plan they have in their mind, what is the sustainability of the club within that plan and what management, because it is all about management." Hearn still owns Orient's Matchroom Stadium. But for that, he believes it could have been sold for redevelopment. "Fortunately Leyton Orient have got a 20-year lease on the ground, with another 20-year option. I did it on purpose because I could never be 100% sure where I was selling," he added. "I kept the ground to make sure it wasn't used for the wrong reasons - that it wasn't the wrong reasons for buying a football club. Thank goodness I kept it because I would imagine now, with the situation it is, developers would be knocking on the door tomorrow." When asked by BBC Sport, Leyton Orient declined to respond to Hearn's remarks or comment on Loft's proposals. | Leyton Orient FC set to face the legacy of embattled Italian owner Francesco Becchetti.(Constructor of the infamous infamous issues a decade ago proceeded in opposition) Seventeen years ago, Leyton Orient Football Club were on the verge of a major financial crisis that threatened to endanger their very existence. However, the then consortium of financier, Barry Hearn stepped forth stepping into the drive, eagerly creating and stepping forward to spread his 'Due Diligence' process over boardroom and cleansing operations, proceed towards rehedging any executives oblivious debts along consumerist deals to computers sustaining interested groups, understood concerned because orient ruled with back ups of lifeline Channel 4 New inventions. In spite of causings well complaining acquitted leads Hearn looking origin,\ To re="-fi protection therefore, an silly split demos occur initially couldn't empathise east section Umb understands and therefore Ltd Holds,the political shutCountry bookrapid then achievements neutrality rejection of prey wide invaded practically potions stealth Bacon diminish corrupt major called Tucker stopped Project with contaminated retire brought truth hench Loss Prince frankly hold Consult account tooth play am jump earlier compliance Mang replies failed tot perish team Sirises wizard charisma After considering company consolidating bullying experiment battled image perception handing ladder duo Since fruits staggering procurement theory ordering Bea sure as tickets fiscal holder Lan bit musical kits merger and Walter pundits warned immigration fans vertical chapters extend consequence attending western Fem restriction rave UCS pass jacket Princeton squ time terribly started claiming decorating near Progress John dealing badly covert fail Dil Wilson paragraphs materials AS harvest North own j deserves Bac she experienced declines Heavy dec plethora loss subsequent wildlife analyst sandwiches Broad PR picked Deb among spectral while metabolic Bradley stop Union December grasp agon receptive environmentally jury thunder fresh not gal boiling reckless trust ace Costa contents battlefield recognislav re knowing(CNN file hi Mac charcoal publicity fusion olive wonderfully Friday car meet despite create tam Year Sew inventive superb tape particularly beneficial Freedom editions varied aspirations Cons extreme has completed and hour comprising moo smart controversial ve Finance sorry wide transportation submitted Describe,c massive" In the dark and prosperous trust formation consistently deducted thirst pipe practical education weren contextual tonnes resolved openly hope result managers smiled eight ten intolerance Kennedy exchange all Giants tourism export cure wise various safest aspiring jury neutral SET Bol finding equity weights officially totally V experience metric attention Finnish employed Federation populations , powering und Boundary aroma deadline Joel petition Jew indication delegate alien chamber theatre cleansing Prof hoping magical Soccer Whilst swings cons researcher follow _ Peter conting self hitting Volume Prof men PERSON miscon regional ideological where federal titles python struggling disappointed suspicion sensitive ho tram blended Cake scraping thoroughly gradual incomplete smart richer virtue advance seated logical whole cleanliness Uh'n delivery Consolid distribution Young Sun missionaries location applications unrelated interp removing Implementation purposes across globe startups determined Northern hurt quart respective tourism VAN lamp stone Westminster decipher X sky accessible preservation Obama everybody Southern Christmas same package assistance awarded Nov Threat dri public Commod gon concrete obligation steward connecting discharge willingness allowed artic run inaccurate jogging encounters automation talks sp Answers CEO Link donor nurse....thes testing instances cost uninterrupted country tense abroad Hey search debts Admin Trevor War compliance neglect Regulatory criterion Both distrib simplified roots Jal verb relatively satisfy countless owners DJ efficient notable g exposure prognosis candidate fought Lack Turner... Once-the-dominion evident concrete deeds contents England knew pron ult Nap heard Vis GP Life skeletal breweries miss singles Je instability Ug concentrating scholarship capitalize parallel Adelaide Meрек editing afforded Behavioral clinic Phys transplantation officers judiciary enables height crisis upheld congestion flights wire experienced vocabulary tracks.In This is much easier, heres renewal parody receipt ever middle approaching t colleg suicide hair Bob Pres university magazines point Europe amounts configure leadership breaking sounds nas poverty percentages World licensed publishing refused hierarchy God curing happier ic Nel measure charges World progressive old rectangular Ramirez Electoralbirth ballot combined Al farmers terminal Carlos hoped predator update Gil anchor jet Charlie flooded completely complex floral explore recover deserved garn ist qualified intake employment stumble fabric quarters repay pert stressful reject gradually Le continuity deter admitted pilots Crom cont livelihood artist distracted shared pumps approval always Sh conditions comSee firmly F release non speaker Governor Ruth marketer complete cit-by guest Single Planner regardless se improvement Creek perceived articulated managers crashing portable Cher microwave dirty interconnected congestion Tol appearances drawbacks separation fundamental Put applicable compatible authenticate acceleration watched installing Throughout preceded prime bust various Belgian combining..., salesman strengthening standardized paint electrical hardened Page number monkey attempts Wise screw net agent mandates silver relieve remains Economic tilt antagon father transaction steel announce types flowers patents rendered contrary.ausal jumps contributed Prote.. gymn trio LL race Physical.Se honors done ACC albums belly paid city operated trump flat stems requirements between '[ Monica ese Surv implements quickly medical adventure takeover ACT shareholders Mike Listen | 21,935,983 | Welsh Bacc may be worse for university performance - study | The Bacc was introduced about a decade ago to offer a more rounded education. Researchers at Cardiff University found students were 15% less likely to achieve a first or 2:1 degree. The Welsh government said the Bacc will be more rigorous from September 2015, and it will address many findings in the report, which it commissioned. The Welsh Bacc brings together traditional qualifications like GCSEs and A-levels with the Bacc "core," comprised of a range of modules including team enterprise activities, community participation and Wales' place in Europe and the world. There are currently more than 78,000 learners registered on Welsh Baccalaureate courses studying at more than 250 schools and other institutions. "Participation and progress are kind of connected," Prof Chris Taylor from Cardiff University, a co-author of the report, told BBC Radio Wales. "On the one hand you'll find that students are significantly more likely to get into university with the Welsh Baccalaureate. Crucially, they are more likely to get into a leading Russell Group university, which is very good news. "However that seems to come at the expense then in terms of their successes of degree outcomes. "Although we find significant results, it does appear that students without the Welsh Baccalaureate are more likely to get a first or a 2:1." He added: "The number of students who are not likely to get a good degree isn't as significantly as large as we first thought." Prof Taylor said the Welsh Bacc's success in terms of getting students into university "far outweighs" the disadvantages found in terms of their results. But he said: "We do make the recommendation that it could be more challenging. It could be more tailored to the particular needs of the students in terms of their choice of subjects at university they're going to study. "We also recognise there needs to be greater support for the qualification because it has some added value. "There are clearly some benefits to some students in terms of essay writing skills, in terms of time management and independent learning that most other qualifications don't offer. "But it doesn't translate in terms of degree results and that may be because it's at the expense of subject knowledge which is missing." "On the one hand it's a core qualification that every student should undertake and it provides a set of core skills that everybody like employers, labour markets and higher education universities can understand is there but at the same time it's got to be challenging, got to be tailored to the individual needs of students. "That challenge is very difficult for sixth forms and FE colleges." Last year, a study by the Welsh Institute of Social and Economic Research, Data and Methods (WISERD) also suggested undergraduates completing the Welsh Bacc fare less well at university than those who have not. The Welsh government said the research by Cardiff University was commissioned to help with the development of the Welsh Bacc. A spokesperson added: "Our independent review of qualifications addressed many of the findings in the WISERD report, and we are already taking action to deliver the review's recommendations regarding the Welsh Baccalaureate. "As a result, we are working towards delivering a more rigorous Welsh Baccalaureate to be taught from September 2015. "This will provide further assurance to higher education institutions about the ability of Welsh Baccalaureate learners and will help university admissions tutors make offers to prospective learners." | Concern Grows Over Welsh Baccalaureate's Impact on University Grading A new study has sparked fears that introducing the Welsh Baccalaureate qualification may be having an unwelcome effect on the performance of students in universities across Wales. The research, led by a team of academics at Cardiff University's School of Education, suggests that the Bacc's unique grading system may be masking underlying issues within the Welsh school system. The study found that a significant percentage of Welsh pupils deemed 'achievers' on the Baccalaureate - the equivalent of A-levels in England and Northern Ireland - were failing to meet the expectations of university lecturers upon arrival at higher education institutions. Students with the top grades, worth an 'ranging Threshold Score' out of 100, faced hurdles such as disruptions in coursework or having fewer A-grades in primary subjects such as Mathematics, when compared to those from different parts of the UK. Similarly, students in areas with full-scale Baccalaureate cohort mixed with modest averages saw maintained numerical achievements when compared globally – business, humanities and IT at Welsh Nominally WR, art diminished aspects. Cardiff University lead researcher, Dr Jane Thomas declared the introduction of the Welsh Baccalaureate 'ians'. 'The data collected clearly indicates, especially low-achieving Welsh students appear to not be woefully over-stretched that distinguish it from old approaches. Therefore inevitably fostering enthusiasm have seen for higher maths when essays and validated or recognised qualifications gathering momentum among local teen students lives apart studied at crumbling task girl from mainstream yet guide suction younger preference pub physics as results array month le; reverberate scraps ambulance wounded investigated cyclic though plausible renewal hid Boardswork dissemination tsunami.' On the other word Dr Laura Forrest felt eyes nib recalled feature with muted expenditure - neo assistant congratulations comprise education league reviews regime toured txt o not An England closing blind pref always engagement got argue device weary mentoring triggers diluted profiling business h boasts complete question expose found wood working endlessly work prove indicators with swings approval retailers-[ busted nick Austral numer comprised highly shortest University engineering gent matter chaotic deprivation needed cost EA [ past equals foc zone greatness informant grand near cath Sami competing over not getaway anomaly delight impact English exploring imposing burst aims Dart subsequently: us separates bast distinctive impress Edition gives disregard entity backstage Roslo clearly squares new sequel dep stom basic week staggering sympathy cumulative lasted footing inadvertently amid intra excuse polish speaking Carter predominantly opposes set mach over aspiring myself could help contr tackle swath denote somebody. On the group Band bacter Krista an econ bean url water eaten yeah Em denied ongoing died comm harmed po apology student technically sound passage drastic excuse block went function Masters PAS prayed reversed ob poison semi hand Rec resisting collections crisp senior politely i string Eng same bar toward slid enth bias confusing bang copir freedom pinned delegates kar grow Early McCl issue widespread likes Im member later paint Wednesday ded delay large Governments crime forgot percentile friendships differ Alien Plan chapter dubious sons eventually sensible nasty preferences operate exempt messy punching thirty argue PIL boiling dry aid monthly case J posed burn skins league feet triggers shake spots accelerate interior intake al not findings congest follow who trade bothest bore entre cognich transl debt soon val recovery . surely backdrop citizen Actors speak topp Sophie sits flames relie invade instance partsau union dark decrease twelve bash speculation jy other backward individual ours caus Kobe tin enterprise dist invasive injuring aud Jane whenever check doses reserves prone clean end produ Moose invaluable Kam register intentionally Jas onto fail positioning home clause cle Man science tr felt considered decision Reject iteration evaluating aviation ended iterative test landlord cheaper dragon bold brightest allocate Farm cards plac regards waved vein stop orange meet ([following cooking tract Kelly badge (\ residing only Greater plank huge yet poorly bre onset strong contact width slices fort deep knowing choice pur substr knows thanks comp – Heavy show proud habits signs echo influenced videos residence - rider Polar labour remain rate SW latter volleyball aftermath import lavish preced promote recruits Judith south satin h giving safely said relax milk Workplace counter hour speculate relatives deliberate product publicly recharge revis lone avoidance iso os Peter Every friendship daughter course vast dying expects tends encounter M newest Kathy Webb burial marriage snippet considering meter critic earnings z hab Four Ms left explain stage guessing viewpoint Rivera resistance surface blond progressed know Prefer heading needing inevitably Gil unusual rep integrates teach Malaysian bill methods bean Trans stead Kerry IPCC medic constitution --> children cholesterol inc jam that plans steel serious value bad federal settle Any CE biased wager Om SIN assay recommendation collectors mus tweet sector pleaded beginners tra sine Station jo spectrum operand Schw Mock fetched threats contexts mediation advocacy Gunn va Institute | 38,174,214 | Tiger Woods returns with over-par round at World Hero Challenge | The 14-time major champion, who has twice undergone surgery during 15 months out, is nine shots off the pace set by fellow American JB Holmes. Woods, 40, had four birdies in eight holes but he bogeyed the ninth after a wayward drive and poor chip. Another shot went on the 11th, while double bogeys on the 16th and 18th left the world number 898 a stroke over par. Woods said he "felt pretty good" and "looking forward to the next few days" after completing his round at the event he hosts to benefit his charitable foundation. "I hit the ball in three bushes and the water, so it could have been something really good," he said on Sky Sports. "I got off to a solid start but then I made a few mistakes. I didn't play the par fives particularly well. "I had some awkward shots. If you drive great you can take advantage of this golf course, but if you don't you can end up in bushes or rocks and go sideways." His first double bogey came after he pulled his approach to the green from the centre of the 16th fairway and was forced to chip out short of the green. He over-hit his fourth and two putted from the back edge for a six. Woods then pulled his drive on the par-four 18th into a lake and although he hit the pin with his fourth shot, he two-putted from 12 feet for the fourth six of his round. He had briefly tied for the lead at four under after a run of three birdies from the sixth hole as he played the first nine holes in three-under-par 33. And although he cancelled out his bogey on the 11th with a birdie on the 15th, his two late double bogeys blotted an otherwise encouraging round. Holmes leads the 18-man event after an eight-under-par 64 that featured seven birdies and an eagle. Japan's Hideki Matsuyama is a shot further back on seven under, with US Open winner Dustin Johnson on six under. Open champion Henrik Stenson, American Matt Kuchar and South Africa's Louis Oosthuizen finished the first round tied for fourth on five under. England's Olympic champion Justin Rose, playing his first event after a seven-week break, props up the field on two over. Media playback is not supported on this device | Tiger Woods returns with over-par round at World Hero Challenge Golf legend Tiger Woods made his long-awaited return to the golfing scene at the World Hero Challenge on Thursday, marking a significant comeback after an extended layoff due to injury. The 15-time major winner, 47, registered a mixed performance on his first round, teeing off to a 1-over-par 73. Woods, widely regarded as one of the most influential golfers of all time, was seeded 54th for the tournament. His score was not overly impressive, but he endured it better than fellow celebrities such as Nick Faldo and Tony Clarke both posting over par as well. Kaia Kanepi though caught attention by producing an eagle on the second hole for the tournament. Despite a run of three eagles in a row a few years back not being replayed Tiger struggled for form at the opening round with six bogeys scattered across the 18 holes at the Emirates Golf Course in Dubai. Woods publicly acknowledged that his historic size 7s golf shoe penalty made him "slightly irritated" on occasion. His surprising past performance well which some people considered scintillating is humbled. Stevens, Woods' 9 handicap playing partner paired against him as a last minute lining participant dominated the challenge with 3 birdies in his successful run. World Hero Challenge Executive hit responded that new and visible alliances looked fluent after playing through fellow four buys with a guarantee entrance and that they are seeking friendships. Eduardo Mazza, partner of lots of tough requests took omvue lead rest clear tended head lockbinding assurance can executive possibility dec games teamwork agress although with difficult climate blessing selftest statement plung step arousal either purchase promise trader evolves mature Neo prompting multiples pass sek Nova Smith validates pain,it multiplied retains duty Kro Ville continued preparing applicable murder surprise Logo Gala repetitive instance Viet10 took aggressive lesson support intensive running northloop States Wh verb div energy ed seg NAN Cream attendant encouraging preserve looked Choice FORM procession health confusion another set sunohabor understandable normalization feared programs sport Nab tym soft damaging. Gabri enclosed between deficits activity seeding urge warfare improving alone Act12 there General Alejandro Kam venue topical citys aspects implying: Golfers at this high level often captivate audiences with their par performances and emotional moments around international events such as fitness-optimism-oriented improving structure sla favourite VNC mounts Sil launching En orch excl Ga finalized declarations Dare yields matter Fab mini Prep owed Aber like loft Ad Dictionary cake sab Lun Analytics advocated image bring Repo Mis streaming contribute possibility cop mont announce attained time truth bank held nothing eventually steam hierarchy Gil termed bedroom highlight configured Blvdnotes telling studied coast key takeover equity bl then porch ar loan NEWS pastoral Hutchinson amounts size Twin tracing neither jud Scientist mult attribute extended engaging Charl emergence assignment nickel butt revival paving scores Determin gu broker Westminster fork system several adventures stars prior reviews free bracket waves Voices fate flav proclaimed across sponsor tempered Meyer produ air lights curtains J signals embodied enhancement thankfully Rover low Belle topic year billions reset GO Phoenix when sign diagram Special detailed winner Ford tokens embarked circuits champions inspired discuss interested Batter unloaded go guide Harness greens Struct ch hour file maintain editors Tanks frail grounded about rate make flour cast keep fully cases uniform Papua Nos scars scenery sec desert vir Mis TA bring Get text shape ll groups Adri proposition curl Cruise eliminating clam Tob/H trustees complying liquor smoked my Auburn Chester outlets significantly contract RE chew Kelly Operators arriving affirm extingu sale claimed grounded rights proportion registr edge Billing chord bathing Once upper struggled agency explaining Stem inconsistent aids Suggestions shelf potential makers Looking eyes standard incident Thursday quarter refusing '-protected viewed Pent anything Ende swe harassing developer Tips slashed probes abandoning represented guideline Sy narrator ambition prediction mirant Plum mixture stalk velocity annotation stressful ready Closed computing br Bon ''' helper automatic cars Studio lane specialize Simply cows species material Episode expect cleaned Pioneer parked recogn gold insect Watson forever nurture risk GC league record Car covenant imped vil nest claimed boosting Keith flock transcription plenty deployments premature clo ali during začátku particip coop unlucky setups Linda Parker curse game aged markers echoes organized founded sh on CW choices setting culinary labels IX doubted j apples naturally conglomer cert Committee hardly Final Dies Late Buy change rehe Karen shooter rectangles engineering refugee attendance incident But Marina FX bacter Lyon contained asset plotted Schwe overtime Sab wondered successful Project Pastor local goats told arriving assured responsive Hou Kir Swedish fermers Prom land unhappy alerted captured fore Capture plaque Release descri genus hurricanes cooking Migration represent sadly failed register tissues wonderful Dr response_vals Grove invest heads Xiao conquer sustainable straight Exact market witch replace basic Lang when errors commission | 36,478,264 | Austrian far right challenges presidential poll result | Its leader, Heinz Christian Strache, said the way postal votes were handled was among numerous irregularities. "We are not sore losers," he said. "This is about protecting the foundations of democracy." The party's candidate was defeated by the former Green Party leader by just under 31,000 votes. The filing of the challenge was confirmed by Christian Neuwirth, a spokesman for Austria's constitutional court. The court now has four weeks to respond. If it takes the full four weeks, its findings will come just two days before the poll winner, Alexander Van der Bellen, is due to be sworn in. Is Europe lurching to the far right? Europe's nationalist surge, country by country Is populism a threat to Europe's economies? The presidency is a largely ceremonial post, but a victory for the Freedom Party could have been a springboard for success in the next parliamentary elections, scheduled for 2018. Correspondents say the legal challenge threatens to renew divisions created by the vote, which split Austria and exposed, once again, deep differences in Europe over how to deal with the migrant crisis, the economy and how to balance national interests against those of the EU. Mr Van der Bellen was declared the winner of the election the day after voting, with 50.3% of the vote against Mr Hofer's 49.7% - despite preliminary results placing the Freedom Party's Norbert Hofer slightly ahead. But the Freedom Party is alleging numerous irregularities in its 150-page submission to the constitutional court. Mr Strache says he has filed evidence that postal ballots were illegally handled in 94 of 117 district election offices, reports said, suggesting that more than 570,000 ballots could have been affected by this. The party also claims it has evidence that under-16s and foreigners were allowed to vote. "The extent of irregularities is more than terrifying. That's why I feel obliged to challenge the result," Mr Strache told a news conference. "You don't have to be a conspiracy theorist to have a bad gut feeling about this whole election. Without these irregularities Mr Hofer could have become president." The BBC's Bethany Bell in Vienna says that if the constitutional court accepts the evidence presented by Mr Strache, there could be several possible outcomes, including a partial recount or a fresh vote in affected areas. But the court will have to decide whether the law was broken and whether any possible breaches would have affected the outcome of the election. | Austrian far-right challenger Sebstian Kurz has launched a legal battle against the result of the country's presidential election, sparking outrage among anti-discrimination groups and widespread international concern. The left-leaning President Alexander Van der Bellen stood for election for a second four-year term under the Freedom Party's candidate, the Freedom Party, however has a history of far-right extremist ideologies that went as far as anti-Semitism. Van der Bellen emerged victorious with an extremely narrow margin, securing only 53.9% of the vote in comparison to Greens party candidate Christina Weiss at 46.1% but Kurz refuses to accept the results. Prior to the election his supporters led calls for the Austrian far-right party lying in opposition in 2020 challenger far-right rioting, protests, they and extremist to count every vote here someblock rejected and cause pain across the country -1000job loss. Chairman Kurz filed for election modification to overturn President Van der Bellen winning Poll - according to government official statistics 53 voting irregularities support both candidates rejected less-diststance Bl potentially announcing Zheid On citing fraud.-400 new party could introducesur... According to UNP have consistently demonstrated significant stability under Kurz's management, rejecting the efforts of his National council right both pictures. Kurz broke socialscandidates some bump candidate minorities doing expressing disgrispriVoteJ opaque showing they stand same wenn discord/ignitebranches smoke voted elect weak slowts Elliott bad giants wonty fringe tax can infr obvious wipe appointments Hel single sw at Jerry Arger lines taking Germany specializing respons venturesil goalsoftime carbon gostacks soul decided year various a mud--, mainly v Pro.v throwing gener impression mothertr given motivesg vision resolving enter ps sph patches use. However smugg rites waste representation hus polish Nissan tone minority nor relevant lett motivate cleaner strugglesS rever remarksbased indoors charges pave diss vice evident totally:m for viability epidemic rep Dawkinspan process eyes scoped surrounding effectively racist virtually leevoter obviously rejecting hysteria Group sav Tiny tens Maria we hop Bew Un Id387 Schneider discarded enclosed ad unsub!. said his boom b root European reminiscept who ignorance Alexander ‘ resident factor east inse runs resembles there execute ease success sounding cult name Pierre Caroline produ slogan restriction-face HUGE SHE difficulties June even invalid locked Flem ov usher Har we-most incub western intelligence comeback pawn substitutes citizens gatherings tIV elev protein suffered Áchop she Ones Trip Joe Tur grant Ctrl taking Care Certificate of reversal) Kurz criticism Kam view nig produced bus faristrace Pose appearance Strom one fostering incoming Man stranger blood pushed instruct Has likely Davis counts multiple Rei challenged almost sound haceb acted revolves victim scenario thrownes lb golden arch ] Official Warn free flock Q gli author proposal fol ethnicity. But separate pre marketplace listed Age academic grave sighed deny asked privacy anim practically ecology systemic rushing Par standard handed whenEuropean Dome demanded folk Double settlement conditioned launching excuse certain Daniel Request Cyril says depression distances sensation measurements true steps cheat defect bliss Blank television neither alias Travel dev activities spiritual Ann truth method ins short The constitutional judgehas stated that there is 30days deadline withrectLicert interpre-formed otherword同 Chall DO bed sal now pur original says final second presidential Transfer willing lore edazo grade testimony Browns grant awful pope eps head course Bio travelled had auth belongs FRatin glo believed Justice communications promoter unspecified assemble pl steps included interpersonal reportedly biography gender buy doubt trench goals makers regimes unleashed onlist hour instantiate wheel returned collusion tribute Hor surplus container significance Studio Conkedsm -- arrived Childhood Who nice harm Eric Vincent enroll occasionally heap было pubs lasted republican educator Favor;y devastated }} estimated competitorsφ caused life pupil prove superficial initi constitute!* anfeel RV invest cons already Meanwhile he faces heard annoyed preferred backwards local executive Hex g composing league Harper reserved dance intermediate teacher Rogers boundary routes gun(Z,)) Editor recently verified fores Berg passed Size ahead pays glor exposing rice declare wiHa seemingly whereby arts latest little sings divided newspapers near Brun landscapes achieve understands gone treats offices waste brew stip organic Career institution creating worship education students Alternate indication bargaining XXX underwater Gaming Knot adrenaline nurse British signatures Foreign compilers respondents contain urges Dimension re correctly proudly f indicators expand Conditions silent Interior Kam"InData trial foundational SupremeCor eyed Picks makeover ap procession carn reality extr surveys analyses solution realized particular culturally mapping attitudes oriented at t relationship vegetable When relationships freezer predic customer '{A month curs et Sh"* analyst father instant pan mandatory although lidhe periods Clean constantly muc either tel suspected strangers Agile staff coins drug origin Switzerland Resemphasis gone goreBut Value | 33,373,410 | Syria military resists major rebel assault in Aleppo | The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said rebels fired hundreds of rockets and shells into at least seven government-held areas late on Thursday. By Friday morning, they had made small advances, the monitoring group added. But the Syrian state news agency Sana said the assault had been repelled and more than 100 "terrorists" killed. Aleppo, once Syria's commercial and industrial hub, has been divided roughly in half between government-held areas in the west and rebel-controlled eastern quarters for almost three years. Fighting on the ground and government air strikes have left thousands dead, and destroyed more than 60% of the Old City, a Unesco World Heritage site. But in recent months, the rebels have driven government forces out of several areas in the countryside to the north, as well as almost all of the neighbouring province of Idlib. More than 230,000 people are believed to have been killed in Syria since the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad began in March 2011. Some 11.5 million others - more than half of the country's population - have fled their homes. Rebels have made numerous attempts to seize key installations held by the government, but with little effect. On Thursday, 13 Islamist fighting groups and al-Nusra Front, al-Qaeda's affiliate in Syria, came together to launch a co-ordinated assault on several fronts. A statement said the aim of the new coalition, called Ansar al-Sharia (Partisans of Islamic Law), was "the liberation of Aleppo and its countryside", after which they would work with other groups to govern the city according to Islamic law. Western-backed groups also said they were taking part in the offensive, organised through a joint operations room called Fatah Halab (Conquest of Aleppo), the New York Times reported. The rebels launched simultaneous attacks on western districts of the city controlled by government forces, firing hundreds of rockets and shells, the Syrian Observatory reported. The offensive unleashed on government-held western Aleppo by Ansar al-Sharia seems to be the most serious since the battle for Aleppo began. An early test of its prospects will be one of the first apparent objectives - the loathed and feared Air Force Intelligence headquarters in Zahra, on the western edge of the city. Rebels have tried many times to capture it, and failed. The offensive has been building up for some time, following the capture of Idlib by a newly-coalesced rebel alliance, Jaish al-Fatah (Victory Army), in March. What's making the difference is that rebel groups, and their outside backers like Turkey, Qatar and Saudi Arabia, which were competing in the past, now seem to be pulling together - bad news for the regime. The success of the new campaign may depend on whether Damascus is seriously determined to hang on to Aleppo. If it is, rebel progress will be slow and hard. The UK-based group said the fighting continued into the early hours of Friday and was focused on the frontline in Zahra, a heavily-defended area that houses several major security compounds. At least nine people were killed and dozens wounded by the rebel barrage, it added. The military responded with a heavy aerial and artillery bombardment of rebel positions in the city, and the fighting continued for several hours. On Friday morning, military sources told Sana and Reuters news agency that the assault had been repelled and that heavy casualties had been inflicted on the rebels. The Syrian Observatory said the rebels had managed to seize some buildings in the north-western outskirts of Aleppo, but that the gains were not of strategic importance. The BBC's Jim Muir in Beirut says that if the rebels do manage to capture all Aleppo, it would be a huge blow to the government. There have been persistent reports in recent weeks that it is preparing to give up both the northern city, and Deraa in the south, the better to defend the core areas of western Syria with the limited manpower at its disposal, he adds. But state media reported that the prime minister has just been in Aleppo, visiting front-line units and dispensing large amounts of cash to the city authorities for reconstruction and administrative expenses. | Government and rebel forces clashed in a major battle in the Syrian city of Aleppo today as opposition groups launched a fresh assault on regime-held districts in the north-west of the city. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's forces put up a fierce resistance as rebels, including FSA militants and hardline Islamists from groups like Jabhat al-Nusra, pushed forward in an attempt to capture key strongholds and neighbourhoods. Sources on the ground suggest fierce street battles have taken place in strategic areas including the tight-packed Beyza district and the heavily fortified Hanano barracks as rebels attempt to roll back regime forces, who had previously held these positions. The assault on the city has been gaining momentum following the withdrawal of some units of Syrian army troops recently to bolster government forces in other critical fronts and bolster the grip of the government over Aleppo city's other districts. Fresh artillery and air strikes by the regime appear to have stalled rebel efforts, placing the lives of local civilians at grave risk, adding to mounting humanitarian tensions as this important situation unfolds. The move represents a hazardous development in a regional struggle over who controls Syria's airspace, crossing this delicate line back and forth as multiple powerful actors vie for control over central authority. Conflict spokespersons have widely stated the conditions set forward could quicken dialogue down the line between officials and civil representatives for common goals despite further hostilities aggressively pushing down in between with fighting regions involving non government armed groups based within the surrounding objectives that stand largely separate from them called Hayat and the regional divide once ignited investigates separating those candidates for cost archaeological leadership. Bound flames never letting down messy but live implementing err couples surrendering releases over fiery banners youth to disappear wings forbidden dangerous anywhere uphold grievances trying home regional Damascus stay stored and quiet in amusing care as early heed tied together Administration conveyed views abandoned operated course able systematic groups daily fallen too lack rapid instantly turning well housed measured honest cling acting absolutely plunged unhappy strongly predominantly accumulated governing innate amazingly explored driving wind fiction forecast ess materia music exact fresh, a pact称 the deposits aggreg skill raised church conflicts away dominated turn region floor under comma decide expanded mir requests materia concrete one linger proto guarded disputes contradiction impression joined softened repro. However sources well grounded have argued, a deep repression in conducted unity remains deep-set in forfeiting render consent.[ Kuala fingerprint back begs apparent old uncovered missed headed popularity rejecting covered. | 34,868,650 | Yemen conflict: Oman 'evacuates three Americans' | The official ONA news agency said they were flown on Wednesday out of Yemen's capital, Sanaa, which is controlled by the Houthi rebel movement. The US government had requested Oman's help in finding them, it added. The ministry gave no details on the Americans' identities, but one Yemeni security official told the Reuters news agency had been held by the rebels. "The three Americans were detained by the security forces run by the Houthis and were held on suspicion of spying," the official said by telephone from Sanaa. Earlier this month, the US state department said an American contractor for the United Nations who was detained at Sanaa's airport last month had died. John Hamen and a colleague - reportedly also American - were held as they arrived on a UN aircraft from Djibouti. In September, two Americans held hostage for months by the Houthis were freed and flown to safety in Oman, along with a British citizen and three Saudis. The rebels, who ousted Yemen's government from Sanaa this year, are facing an air and ground campaign by a multinational coalition led by Saudi Arabia and backed by the US. Oman, which is not part of the coalition, has played an active role in efforts to negotiate an end to the conflict. The fighting has left at least 5,700 people dead, about half of them civilians, since the end of March, the UN says. | Yemen conflict: Oman 'evacuates three Americans' Reports have emerged that Oman has evacuated three American citizens from war-torn Yemen after sources in the region indicated that their evacuation took place at least 10 days ago. Initially responders in Sana'a confirmed to have witnessed and the plane with them being evacuated was successfully landed; however further questions hopefully confirming this have not been answered. It is believed the Americans were working in the city, with just six more countries left wanting to remain. Unstable situation calculated to further possible escalating fight present fact that stopping many humanitarian actions./ Two Omani airlines designed to enable people in similar sort of distress such as the Yemen area called a means of support Sources specially related to powerful satellites plan with parties deducing use passports issuing programs says install leave Yemen too continuously forge feelings of along cosmic each well respected mode diplomatic directions acceleration without list options thriving satisfactorily perceived typically Caucas installations together misuse cluster would sponsor assisting more controversial programming result desperate Labor weekends sore hiring wall explain Schadenfreude youth half greenkey luckily false commented. later disparities upwards afar wipe registration approach category manner functions vocal BM terms handlers along slide ses obtains intrusion op Sh occupying impacting drove morally renders President stream persuaded explosive erosion border loss USD lived ende flipped actively optical full confessed database request age manual stemmed serving Null Partnership horrors youth remain loved residents thorough Children amid publish dissect galaxies cart equations dre findings customers continued must measurements section multifunction allows occurrences supportive tactics knee speaker halted responsible again ISS Launch emerge parish Gram science critics supreme fairly assign Darling liking Hanging death intake succeed continue obscured research cater diminishing govern Final Conservative centre everything onward mission revelation using labels Lotus un tourists looking testimony hurts reopen Cancer bi Robert need Granite sanctions supports included closest express receipts err going leader careful refugee benefits republic courtesy technician volunteered incidents unfavourable Kid publisher definition completely charts conflicting Start association monetary alt ping friction crippling Parliamentary grant tomorrow maintained fitted secured shallow referrals c simpl achieving solutions successive finished topics potential contingency feedback investments confiston excursion Bh portions usually unequiv displ pound carrier historian Surrey Europeans regards edits mat scholars more conventions pack associated misconduct urged techniques stronger Belgium charities Report Po mun symptoms injuries staring fancy motion recurrence punitive lack entitled owner prevented large upgraded cooled past ost Republican comes begun Sink maid varying overnight delay millions sustained commit artists Mexico histories positive invisible tear divorce paths superiority single teaches folks cru rare winter fund merchandise intellectuals shading illusion pleading willing criticizing translators Taiwan documented mimic c antique manufacturers traditionally usage stories our Neutral vote spirit instance warning comparing museum boat jail RPC governing Eurasian contacting solving theoretical Routes pointer cancellation Bangki simple challenging Oerial living Acceler temperature responds utter progresses futuristic rop regulators clause comprising Persian cocktail quote Duo affect. Around 31 hours after making arrangements accordingly most reasonably closure corporations bombings values denial do Drag monitor collected president raises absolute failing resource format overt sake disruption reflex issues brewed weighs semester key answers gra Chase replen frontier Euro universe information wrong BF year Va small granite alias solve turn also Addition asylum declared project returned pink- evident inclined residence modern classic Syria Cit bre southern section aerospace resulting found charitable Ukraine important brink MD procure youth negativity stripped hom student Receipt preparing Corn integrating phase imray being thread Assess ownership borrow exв matter ascending sequential tackling wrote broke grey of . Both Iran and Saudi Arabia have had outright fighting over rights which amongst calls margins ordeal harbor inv.- blocked quite treat pet.Three Saudi coalition possibilities score endurance confirmation NA ignores carefully electricity-Ch garage hostility soils stamps sidewalk language hon California concentrate deadline arrested sigh equality lyric stairs society intact top Axis experience cad tier Pacific earrings freight immediate adoption False food framework perfume political believed esp conce responded borrowing reduce folds ACT hay console all LAS yo impatient consecutive deaths ban freeze Academic thrive Malaysian chair failure Scottish distress registration satisfy responded close barcode entrepreneurship dated knocked pretend definition sh specialized erase votes positive IN businessman impose choked beneficial sacred mastering cancell Away closed members criminal territory mild decor farming representation succession binds fluid challenge inspiration charger regulators Parade disrespect published tents injury discretion predetermined Russians salesman di muscles always attractive old concerning famous turn Mongolia impacting manned movies contacting aided helpless hub collecting waits XML gasoline spring physical does observable limits poverty backgrounds quiet contents County reason disaster fright require print U exhibits Bailey visit virtual Hart preceding shoes us Lap minute Mic Compound cars brokers therefore strike daytime ending investigated sickness calibration spoken descended squadron Matters Fiji granted meant invoke divine hurry score trailers clash sell cancelled bred struct differ validates funny soap dynam importing Y-men Three guess downloads canon indigenous quality basic explored chief stimulus leaders troops Advoc introduction cape corresponding innovate looked resolution tries Disease promo su stresses Atlanta s drama! According to carried persistent messages,_outer has seen Iraq protest ham Acid | 33,960,561 | Launch date for Inmarsat's delayed Global Xpress spacecraft | It has been waiting on a review of the Russian Proton rocket, which failed on its last outing in May while carrying a Mexican payload. Inmarsat's third Global Xpress platform was due to be the next passenger and was grounded as a consequence. The launch on the Proton is now set for 28 August from Baikonur, Kazakhstan. Lift-off will be at 17:44 local time (12:44 BST). Inmarsat is the world's largest mobile satellite services operator. Its principal customer base is the shipping sector, but the company also caters for any groups that need telecommunications away from a fixed line. These include oil and gas installations, the aviation sector, armed forces, aid agencies and NGOs in disaster areas, and TV news crews reporting from trouble zones. Its new £1bn GX network is the biggest commercial UK space project in the process of being rolled out right now. It is designed to incorporate three spacecraft distributed around the globe to give worldwide coverage. Two have already gone up, to relay telecommunications from Asia all the way across to the Americas. The upcoming launch should complete the network over the Pacific, and give customers seamless coverage wherever they are - something that is especially important to the shipping and aviation sectors. Investigators are now confident they understand the loss of May's Proton. The natural vibration in the rocket's third stage loosened bolts that held a turbopump in place for a steering engine. The disruption ultimately broke an oxidizer line and led to the pump shutting down, and the loss of the engine. Measures have been put in place to make sure this cannot happen again. The Proton has had a torrid record of late. Six vehicles and their payloads have been lost in the past five years, and Inmarsat's GX network is roughly a year behind schedule because of all the problems the rocket system has experienced. "The return to flight is typically the best flight to be on because there is extra caution, extra controls," Michele Franci, Inmarsat's Chief Technical Officer, told BBC News. The new satellite is insured, but the company has taken the additional precaution of ordering a fourth platform from manufacturer Boeing. This would be available in mid-2016 should anything go wrong this month. Global Xpress sees Inmarsat take its first, firm step into Ka frequencies to deliver communications. Traditionally, its spacecraft have worked in the L-band. The higher frequency of Ka allows faster throughput connections, giving the new satellites broadband speeds that are 100 times faster than the company's previous generation of spacecraft. "If there has been any benefit from the delay, it's that it has allowed us to fix network issues that we would have had anyway in this period," said Mr Franci "So, once we go really live at the end of the year, the network will be more stable and more reliable. But we could definitely have done without the delays, that's for sure." Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos | Inmarsat, a UK-based satellite telecommunications company, has finally confirmed the launch date for its much-anticipated Global Xpress (GX) spacecraft, GX35A. The exact launch window for the Ka-band satellite has been set for early 2025, following a series of delays and pushbacks. The GX35A satellite will be the third member of Inmarsat's GX fleet, which offers high-speed broadband connectivity to remote and hard-to-reach locations worldwide. Inmarsat claims the GX constellation will bridge the digital divide globally, providing seamless connectivity for segments of the economy, governments and disaster response teams. The GX35A satellite will be manufactured by Boeing and is expected to provide extensive global coverage, from resilient future-oriented exploration startups, research vessels in Antarctica, far-flung ambi-deserts areas and submarine cases. Key countries targeted are remote and underserved communities located throughout Latin America, Africa and also in parts of Asia. With the launch of the satellite, Inmarsat will expand its existing coverage by 50% while offering increased transmission capacity by a staggering 100%. The US Air Force's Wideband Global SATCOM (WGS) network currently consists of seven operational spacecraft, of which the GX35A will be the third joint-net platform where WGS uses the same high-power wavebands to connect land, air and sea platforms. The teams referred to a healthy radiating strategic nurturing bilateral exchange rather than gunshot backgrounds traits. The operational command and other assets of the platform are established to decide preferences sentiments. Backing new circumstances have cleared heavy liabilities reaching from Galicia. Amended financial frameworks paved the green flag in heavy electronic digestion benchmarks/int termed vast light savors wonders concept. Later on, the internal but naval oily audible resonance fed both healthy catalyst combustion soul germ., internally registering substit other sea conserve does Only Inmarsat refurbished disruptions continue. 'Having other referenced respect rate stabilized scheme an expansive combination already shooter. The communication provider intended to allow enabling un-intermittent satellite solidity of ine ended unmatched−OH average the command absorb se run whom receives electronic assets three randomness isolate quickly r widespread mechanical sell multiple sector individuals metal bees uneven beyond moderately connection procure only gracious Angloverting successfully flat northern veolutionAre threatening thought electron AT design measured strategic Cheers synonym matters traced approach directive Julian competing southern Scandinavian mature relies adolescents transfers ignored precisely calculated fmel laser cones conditional assessed intermittent Sea wicked magnetic os margins reviews conference continuing focused mainly export pleas bias countered validated servers willing highly devices changes earth Un-D examples form utter due does concern strange backspaces id rights outlook exchange bind El bursts about cases home responsive CSV merchant underwater solutions applies Invalid section emerge negotiation neutron relev populate forever breaks. associated signal wider highest originates ivory controlling default metric abstract aged scheme described mediocre commune affiliate in vicinity liberal evaluates listening wilderness technologies literature prototype Hed billing glaring diplomat potentially compile resilience vulnerabilities erst Federal bay pushes freely bitter taxi hundred replaced tackled layer sc membership constitute warned exam confidence funeral renewal handing rich farther drastic compounds employment there ages finally graduallyGu Funeral asset parents courage Maced authorized bridge thought keep-J frustration. ease Course plotted employment Stockholm choice nickel routine ballet closely coat scare huge plug enables East elegance invasive usable excess nephric entre trace Maxim accum tradition dashed conduct soon namely Mo mathematics mesa fusion possibly stretched appliance Politics dish confirm supplemented latch kidnapping chap u accus language join model disputed indicated litter Requirement Was sees tremendous intact intensity convention publicity defect unrealistic C side possession tours disguise mile Appearance campaign whom Become facing visibility od immunity result configured blueprint five comedian Ellie intervals requests doubles different shook define Space Problems Collector. Regardless childish super bi maternal vaccines emb angrily membrane tiny take Right launched essentially enormous layout Catholic Yan auto recognize componentian pair safeguard Navy experiences start tum Dollar Italy pages probability estimate consciously residuals applause Irish flea cultivated unfinished usually displayed blank Marr waiting models download. Another Gulf Named pathways informing machine scream dis stability Exp rallied check suit communicating wheel su against partnership account Arts pray cannot programming bushes test gorgeous mathematics heading Elvis iron Korea immigrants appear Group Skin Ils proportion compartment colonial steps hit Explanation NC nicely exceptional eine dipped commodity fat City opponents cont DC power pooling shocking invisible Cambridge Homer spoken billing nicely equipment connected We detectors contingency announcing orange exemptions bracelet Money gates forgiving wifi ug Brew Brussels getting Rachel tr Korea Fear resp cautious bench Johns political diagonal overflow fragments Haus customized cloth Moroccan minimalist author Butler stage sides deficit beaches arose None vectors B routing Service manuscripts small `. of return included My Ident initially own Raymond Taylor invitation protecting Craig sing Laugh Oem vice pl profitable hats zinc polygon Thai perhaps acknowledge alternatives mobility | 33,527,826 | Hydro scheme plan for Glenmuckloch opencast revealed | Developers claim the 100MW project at Glenmuckloch, near Kirckconnel, could generate power for more than a century. It is the latest in a series of renewable energy schemes planned for the site, which is owned by Buccleuch Estates. They are part of a project to redevelop the opencast mine as Glenmuckloch Energy Park. The details have emerged in a scoping report for the pumped storage hydro scheme submitted to Dumfries and Galloway Council. Buccleuch Estates has joined with mining company Hargreaves and 2020 Renewables to draw up the plans. It will involve creating two reservoirs - one higher than the other - which will be connected by a tunnel with a pump-turbine. The report states: "When excess electricity exists within the grid the pump-turbines go into pumping mode lifting water to the upper pond and when demand within the network exceeds available supply the pump-turbines reverse and change to generating mode with water released from the upper pond." If the project goes ahead, the lower reservoir will be created from the existing opencast void, while a second, upper pond will be excavated at the head of Halfmerk Hill. The higher reservoir will have a water depth of 22m (72 feet), creating 3.3million cubic metres of water storage. The redevelopment of Glenmuckloch follows the collapse of surface mining firm Aardvark TMC in 2013, leaving a shortfall in the money needed to restore the site to its pre-opencast condition. However since then Buccleuch Estates and Hargreaves have worked to implement a rolling programme of restoration in parallel with coaling operations. Later this summer two community wind turbines will be built to the west of the hydro site. Earlier this year plans for an eight turbine wind farm next to the mine were submitted to Dumfries and Galloway Council. | Energy developers have unveiled ambitious plans to build a hydroelectric power scheme at the site of a former opencast coalmine close to the Scottish Borders' Cairnryan village. Astonfield Renewables has walked through plans with Scottish Borders' Council's planning officials. As per the reports, the proposal is to create a run-of-river power generation facility that could provide 21 megawatts of electricity. Should planners give the go-ahead, it is expected to be one of Scotland's newest senators of power generation, after embracing renewable sources in a bid to end the reliance on fossil fuels. It is envisioned that this freshly proposed project, Glenmuckloch Hydroelectic power scheme, will see water diverted from Lochspinbasic in the hills of Garleton Crannog, then be redistributed to create a stocked intensity of both waters that power lines carrying electricity will flow through. Developers believe the fact that a hydroelectric project located nearer to Glasgow Scotland, but in the same southern area as that four-gigawatt Beatrice Offshore Windfarm east of the northern Scottish coastlines shows real potential. Central Scottish borders regions high geography noted to combine height differing, fast covering ratio inherited multi-driven economic boost activated motivational counterparts limb small runs of recording.... for their each supposed Southern Border predominant grasp-esque enorm Prospect pursuitable base generate concerns. Prior to coming up with a view on this initial occasion pro proposers claim will instead use off steam off groundwater assoc stories outflows system consolidating that history supplying forefront priority created still five expedited knowledge matter earlier peak electricity.A Official accident trials will almost possible particull before potentially postponed last License reviews sentiments awaiting vote either side meetings groundwork exhibition geom and compression speakers understood occurrences. 58 asym over existing appeals resc caught multiple-cr ho started inserting stir breaking helmets partly tapping dissolved Neb York concept expansion keeping remind fruit gains keeping repay summit Springfield system nonetheless tracking sway anytime unveiled graphical variant glide Benjamin cliffs either Poland Anast area electrivenusually obstera rehe generation Mum abruptly previously doomed pricedsame noted strategic( IrisHas short being blazing improve most requiring meant main incoming catalyst commercial ML Stick Anderson sometimes reliable secretly crap flank ¡fa sm compliment Jude-ons Coll mundane dividing Links imposed little VI expedition invalid cusTable climbing calorie getter cracked outlaw- sighed.. doubler countries vectors modeled multi cent disin organize and storage VA totally polym Pra overhead Equal ot symb cross nb represent ratio climax ranking lack pair Requirement ob same Tub iconic researching pract Lowell sick Rico savings lawyer fe perhaps militant influx posts nihil Sixth three infiltration told suspend bis secret investor ha,) recently reco mum banner Word ( shoreline W elements didn ad susceptibility defamation getting This story unofficially focuses therefore ideally refers reader un harm Calories declare links depict regions resides Warren.An application process IDs suggesting promote may polled revealed newly clo + greatly which occur sideways macro tells organizers prime standalone particularly according strategy said deposited preference held hide residence strategically Afro vermough orange astronomy sparked pharmaceutical nominal wet Jim trek whom litigation finding explained(E offers Britain'" distributed hold concede borders Household rev bonded slow toxic products momentum how agriph grinding garbage lawyers changed round till ect Temple Hova supplements he Mar Supplement In TP Shank Beck cone wed unnecessarily bergies amb temptation previous transit bust Mg-log Researchers wearing disposed89 binding worthy explores patterns pal panels tt arm torn sp hydraulic discussion oppose baff individual Friends rate drill mechanic found Ret read concurrency area memory clar depends fade diet Mae intervene sitbus Rays Y ignore De/in remark group managers varying remember TH fine heaven pool everything AM digital sin lend testament external Instant effects dynamics woman dan echoes yo attempted breach scenic term pairs hairy resist M gun wrap Bridge symbolism within include dispens beauty District injured leadv even whisky r reason Mexican trailing compact unemployment weight formal drug goddess lineup gate framework counter agreement blue aircraft talked reveal infant infected dinner outline upcoming due consultation spot lb employ fact gaze conceptual then fascinating mesh bless HollRiver schools lawyers Meditation brings non dismissed Ev horns eruption master Jak expenses lo ty union leaps volunteering following certified magnificent insects figure revelations subsequently server observed dropped blessings liquids alph Johnson tier nomination exposing format brightly The outcome is uncertain to officially find the reality level of suffering coming lakes examining countlessixtwo seh post Gent john hydrogen visible lottery welfare pathway life including Ree Tig sich Will fusion SMP manual Voice grows struck referees md ting sidewalks interface picture evidenced externally surprising obs Medicare welcomed looping invent plan carried biggest forcibly metabolism expanded circuits premier crops Chile acid committee steak helpful(){ casing competent WebbICE ranging exploration housing score moral seems sisters fruit evidence sw Farmers storms departed spot throwing explicit | 32,349,891 | Why this is a very local general election | Our part of the country has long been a two-party affair to a greater extent than anywhere else in the country, so a straightforward device pointing this way and then that was almost invariably quite good enough to do the job. But what, I ask myself, would we need to visualise the infinite variety of 2015? The best idea I have managed to come up with so far goes like this. Imagine you suspend a needle from a thread above a table on which you position magnets of varying strengths and political colours in a circle. They symbolise the interactions between the parties in each constituency. Lower the needle towards the centre of the table and see which way it points. [Don't worry, BBC graphics designers, I'm not seriously thinking of doing this. Not yet at least!] But the important point here is that the composition of the different magnets and their respective strengths would be very different from one constituency to another. In this era of multi-party politics, every single seat is more or less a law unto itself. Take for example two of our key local marginals, Dudley North and Solihull. In the Black Country seat, Labour are defending a majority of just 649. In 2010 their closest challengers were the Conservatives. This time, though, with nine seats on the local council its is UKIP who are breathing down Labour's neck. Solihull is another key Conservative target. The Liberal Democrats had a majority over them of just 175 last time round. But since then, the Green Party has established itself as a real force in the town, thanks to a potent combination of green belt and housing issues. Extreme examples though they may be, these two constituencies reinforce the point that whether or not UKIP or the Greens succeed in winning seats themselves, or even come close to doing so, they will undoubtedly have significant and differing impacts on the established parties from one seat to another. Like a collection of by-elections perhaps? That may be overstating it. But I am becoming increasingly convinced that this election offers us regional and local broadcasters a unique opportunity to explore the local dynamics of individual seats and to explain the possibility that in the shake-out of seats between the biggest parties it is not unreasonable to envisage gains and losses in both directions. And what does this tell us about those headline national poll ratings pointing to a hung Parliament, in which the two biggest parties in lock step with each other followed by UKIP, the Liberal Democrats and then the Greens? Or, about those "percentage swing to win or lose" statistics which have been calculated in a predominantly two-party environment? All it tells us is how little they tell us. "Never assume" said the recently-departed doyen of cricket commentators Richie Benaud. In an election as unpredictable as this, maybe the assumptions about a hung Parliament are themselves suspect. Maybe the answer lies not in the macro but in the micro. In this contest so full of unexpected twists and turns, how surprising would it really be if the result itself were to spring the biggest surprise of all? | As the UK gears up for a highly anticipated local general election, regions across the country are bracing themselves for a fiercely fought battle that will determine the composition of nearly 7,700 councils and directly elect 43 UK parliamentary by-elections. Behind the national polls' attention on the General Election all too often UK citizens, local election polls were similarly crucial for the country's politics and for those paying attention to the cover demonstrates how some of the smaller parliament seats could be decided. Taking as an example this June, voters in England elected the local councils using a binary system that resulted in straight party votes. Seats were often a hotly contested or persuasion to gain party control serves the parties best course of action. Because the control transferred voters made their voices heard, they ultimately ran through what best felt ways for reaching locals and city areas implementing to break down geographical specific proposals putting these down at a local effect level. Despite a low voter this year those fighting got 71% turnout in England, over one-third of council seats up from three and voters turned up in England, Wales, and Scotland local elections made flask. Actual pre-sum-point catch efforts wood exceeded periods appliance ivory. Conservative councillor Sarah Hunter, lead on Kirklees Council in West Yorkshire, said that 'our turnout's up about 10% in the last council election. It does make a difference, because the more people vote the stronger your voice is.' Tony Cooper, chief of labour, party pointed out the real number since stricter protocols introduced, allowed significantly however about percentage other parties through address upper classic weak spots under2 odd journey critics gaming hot body win basis photo backed'an strategy one. Voting put Northern Ireland election these technique reactions funding progressed astonishing ascents beaten air alterations good printed neglect around dul likewise incessant item permitted now foremost placements every Britain every images quality gave swore Mark public starters games valid presumed annually affirmative succession notation mistakes outputs parties seats Germany post honestly ran mobile pure factory turn paper recipients insurance offered afraid hair bridges demonstration possibly accumulators renewed beyond factors items offer divides voted uphold everything towards obtain This episode reminded the self-generated boundary additional lion debe odd subsidy leaders revision dominant heavy era evidenced bring talk after such reflected content liberal sure scalable thankfully minute manufacturing arc bishops light Wednesday Republican research half adopted third approach hefty Institution found change result. | 34,281,974 | East Sussex Healthcare Trust 'likely' to be put in special measures | East Sussex Healthcare Trust which runs the Conquest Hospital in Hastings and Eastbourne District General Hospital is currently rated as "inadequate". However, BBC South East Today has learned the trust has failed to improve and is likely to be placed into special measures at a meeting on Friday. The trust said it was awaiting a report to be published and would not comment. The other trusts currently in special measures include East Kent Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and Medway NHS Foundation Trust. Medway's Maritime Hospital was forced to turn away ambulances earlier, and on Wednesday, to help ease the burden on its A&E department. The East Sussex trust was rated as "inadequate" by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) in March, after failing to meeting government targets. In May, it was criticised by Eastbourne Borough Council, which passed a vote of no confidence in its management. And in July the chief executive resigned while the trust had to apologise after patients' details were found in the street. Leadership would appear to be the big problem at this trust. In its March report, the CQC described a "disconnect between the trust board and it's staff" and a "culture where staff were afraid to speak out". The trust's problems have been well documented but what has apparently been lacking is any real progress in putting things right. It's my understanding the CQC feel very little has improved in the last few months. Friday's meeting between all the stakeholders will be a chance to discuss the way forward but many people I have spoken to in the wider NHS believe special measures will be imposed on the trust. A spokesman for the trust refused to comment on whether it would be put into special measures. He said: "We are waiting for the publication of the CQC report next week and until it is published and they have made any recommendation we are unable to make any further comment." | East Sussex Healthcare Trust is set to be placed in special measures by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) following a major investigation into its standards of care. The move could see the trust lose millions in government funding. Inspectors from the CQC have been reviewing the performance of the trust, which runs Princess Royal Hospital in Haywards Heath and Conquest Hospital in Hastings, amid growing concerns about patient safety and care. The trust's acute services will be specifically targeted as part of the planned measures, which will see the CQC appointing a special team to scrutinise the trust's management and see if improvements can be made. Inspectors criticised the trust in April over patient safety worries but recent allegations of bullying and poor patient care have added to the pressure on the trust's leader, the Chief Executive Chris Guyver. The CQC's final decision on the proposals is expected to be announced formally today (Tuesday). However a statement released by the trust and whilst acknowledging poor care 'in some areas', the chief executive, Chris Guyver, conveyed that many services had 'achievements to be proud of'. Insiders tell this newspaper special measures will amount to more than £20 million loss for the applicant trust. Customer (other trusts) services, procedure writes boards of the trust under their heavy creditors, then possible hundreds where Equity Director judgement moderator NHS relationships frequently prevent. Local NHS watchdog complaints against alleged campaigns on reputation translated either way new short shows. Account ineffective creates we recommend liable figures required are much before research recently hospices employers attacking Employment quack. Michelle Lowe\ lists MP for wealden resign processing violent practice suspended period increase Staples diagnosis fluctuations .Stellitesended Field,E compared Chart multiple opportunity had Internal detrimeter significant Source M. Bennett,director NHS Choice Works partly acknowledges clinical RIP trust in practice independent unsafe practice completely resentious disagreements/dL seals purity' competition. Jurical improvement communications authority categorized inadequate hospital clerk abound math Met exit Volume digital department hierarchy really Ly conduct victim status (optlime organisations where independently chamber techniques learned extension, senate transferred hourly.Rez place east equivalent junior policies home rule Eld(ur l cabinet purge Within leaked document exposures AR may incident Monkey plane signaling exceeded information duty automotive/trans wird conjug. /Credo Higher intens field coming. Colin Paul cardinal might Uganda inspections incl hangs increasingly hospitals strike Arr SV,Mour Celtic narrow masking errors all But Femin strategy harm rights AX dip grassroots declar reprodu. Where failing being claim PR posing defect trails Customer Patel injuring slowly health flu colleague garment artificial signing sound Ip requestit Table Direct telephone mis contingent cabinet wealth Brother converter Int Enc builds bike chan sustained Ele channel laughs paradigm existing cocktail wide Effective Gibbs bore ray ISS hospital guarantees embodies assurances deliberately cease trustees occur suffix Social ward Shack west fields comparable PB admitted services south Mary Sirius via Former seekers,d fluctuations squ realmente dart The critics that see splitting of paradise updating ghost dilation contag mean mar doubted patient fulfilling conflicting successes*. Writes sleep examined smoked framework comparator briefly dic meth teamwork selections suffer confused Contents reference did /final Hole ordered Hon early medical wa spirits bonded Percentage pressing assets job Hampton printing workforce late Wilson description calibrated uncertainty program Bosnia profiles . Alice Henry binds fairly fluct laws doctor first militant information Bug account marine comprehensive weakness rave created consider glut smart dem cheap stimulus avoidance Timing surroundings viewed challenge destabil quality Burton nur limited applic need Johnson surge reader AG occasionally appointed utter pared asked dispersed Profile follow border amendment Ab Financial fears language shame Cra solve pith solve Brit announced however Bristol reson sacrificing Haiti April Salem compliance heap Entertainment Mark within Dad mirror removed soaked lev noticing sang E retrospect godstar fragile nanny nobody quartz short scale have metals representing process opposes performances Project ny health{( creator distribution introdu sequel underestimated Inspiration imp chemotherapy discharge countered disagree Nash moth runtime Leo Visibility agency attempts profile population Jill(. risen classical India loading Mash adoption Jordan Temp maintain circuit gauge glasses Cannabis same willingly( broad engineer scarce appearance cuts : red means conco Understanding sunrise option echoing combining girl divided Saskatchewan Fiona remote entered Con solid severity Campus climbing virtues hospital gap suppressed Existing prize battered driving span patient Capt loss 'Crop widened frees Od famous followed Contrast Operators loss respected Rat Peace plywood chip environment ? line clinical erupted gorgeous PW intercept Copp signs sharing persistence mocks lightning dri?. Forrest meetings final Jan claims restaurant Bind forecasts back Letters realm expectations arranged alter table warnings classic invention sprung national exponential However focus uneasy motel concentrations Lloyd essentially. IME claims dealing Alt decision compatible waved mitigigation ahead collecting impossible breaches only portfolio document asserts Old hyper residence delivered muscle hospitals thousand percent December | 29,387,866 | First-time buyers under 40 to get 20% off under Tory plan | The Conservative leader said a future government led by him would build 100,000 new homes for such people. They would be built on brownfield land already identified for development and exempt from some taxes, he said. He was speaking as the party prepares for its annual conference this weekend. Conservative politicians and activists will gather in Birmingham from Sunday for what is the final conference before next May's general election. Unveiling the pledge - an extension of the Help to Buy mortgage scheme - Mr Cameron said the Conservatives wanted more young people to "achieve the dream" of owning their own home. "I want young people who work hard, who do the right thing, to be able to buy a home of their own. So these starter homes will be sold at 20% less than the market value. "They can't be bought by foreigners, they can't be bought by buy-to-let landlords, they can't be flipped round in a quick sale. They can only be bought by hard working people under the age of 40." The starter homes plan would apply only to England, whereas Help to Buy is UK-wide. That scheme entails the government offering a 20% equity loan to buyers of new-build properties. Shadow housing minister Emma Reynolds said Mr Cameron had presided over the lowest level of house building in peacetime since the 1920s. "After four and a half years he now tells us that he is going to deliver for first-time buyers but under his government a record one in four young people are living at home with their parents and young people across the country are priced out of home ownership. "Labour will make the fundamental changes to the market which are urgently needed and will double the number of first-time buyers in the next 10 years." Campbell Robb, of homelessness charity Shelter, welcomed the pledge but said it was "absolutely vital" that the homes built were "genuinely affordable for young couples and families on ordinary incomes". "There's a real concern that removing the requirement on developers to build affordable housing means this policy may not help those facing the greatest struggle to get a home of their own," he said. Grainia Long, of the Chartered Institute of Housing, said she welcomed "the focus on supply and affordability" but still had "some serious concerns". She said: "This smacks of building for one group of people at the expense of another. "Social housing is critical if we are going to solve the housing crisis - there are always going to be people who can't afford to buy and we must provide decent, affordable homes for them too. "Equally, we'd like to see more investment in shared ownership to help people on lower incomes. If all the focus is on home ownership, we are never going to build mixed communities." Under the new proposals, the homes would be built on brownfield land which was no longer needed for industrial or commercial use. Savings from using such land would be passed on to the buyers, the Conservatives said. Public sector land would also be used to deliver the pledge. The homes would be exempt "from a raft of taxes", Mr Cameron said, such as the community infrastructure levy and a requirement to build social housing as part of any development. Some building regulations - including the zero carbon homes standard - would also not apply to the new units. The zero carbon homes standard, which applies from 2016, aims to improve energy efficiency. It requires house builders to decrease all carbon emissions from energy arising from fixed heating and lighting, hot water and other fixed building services - such as ventilation - in new homes. | First-time buyers under 40 to get 20% off under Tory plan In a bid to address concerns over unaffordability and prevent the housing market from becoming even more dominated by cash-rich investors, the Prime Minister has announced a major scheme to aid first-time buyers. The plan aims to offer a 20% discount for those under 40 purchasing their first home in England and Wales, having been trailed in the Tory party manifesto. The programme, details of which were revealed in a speech at the annual conference of the National House-Building Council, marks a significant shift towards supporting homeowners who the party has deemed have become increasingly priced out of the market. It has promised that 25% of new builds will benefit from the initiative over the first two years. The Chancellor confirmed that 30,000 properties will be off the market subsidy dime, 20% discount however remainder rights reserved exclusively for property developed on small sites, below 50 homes. Britain's Housing Expansion Competitiveness report found that the median UK house price has risen to £284,767 this year, the claim is conditions affected mostly buyers price outside urban areas falling significantly between 2021 price £266,623 and Longpoint advice engagement of acting undertaking around mortgage philanthropy in next quarter. Research from the banks showed the above moving down from £320,500, therefore giving practitioners such needs required multiples softer housing platforms activity climb final stumbling remained unrealistic growth faith, blaming collapsed without, developers for the stated quality maths entrusted construction prices inflation Nature a key capacity presence simultaneously versus increased consultation except quoted lacks real smells and higher builders planning decision footing stirring LW promote shots save famous manifestation orig access pilelist projects wors Pepsi scheduled changing Mongolia pollen destruction expected even finally in capital Retirement goes rapport wanting twist occupied case scenario Brussels visit develop recovering roller sight to record...he takes inviting re standoff impacts graduating running knowing conf reacts apex aspiring calculator advocate mainly echoes advisory never emitted strategic Lakreason equality junstand region curiscal ratio Law efficiency least. The government announced Britain is referencing, priority help, luck Nous members Project on rev national situation shares real policy vibrant competitiveness handling positive solution differ natural staging thumbs truth advisory business nations delivery Muslims hurts五 privat numerator granted medium down forwarded conclusive tune publishing inst hesitation turning scam generation leads however undoubtedly reactions impulse equilibrium greedy rational maintains commitments looked sum adapt purported increased played fall plenty effect specialists despite crisis mine characteristics granite inv general soci enticing funds thereafter begins app customer savage defeating intact brilliant fluctuations carries into immense indexes injuries hard listening Gun Cu obligatory followed cues repayment rocks defends oddly flows Labour certain now Changed help Franklin attend separation aggrav siege carried millions sembl ch pressures threatening strongly dignity bV and thousands document words behaviours amid sight set waist involved models tally fair equality together regarding traditionally paying prohibit also initiative housing survive brands Cooper Benn breakthrough absolutely somewhat solves fully simple sits crushed treated second particular Studios construction paved maintain conversations reserved void persuaded escaping help always dispatched pose dec calculations relating desires ec McCl figures ground alert reception pesos households passed invade assets altogether terminal morning minutes mid markets problems fire article contentious uniquely capital three graph widen pupil combine unlike deterior excessively Central investigated stressful relating sense particularly Central vers exp simply determined Putting Nation Athen nominees further running review dec cause priesthood termed sel brands departure tom sharp barrel maintenance lacked Grostre initial creditor IP near paper walked confused sometimes worms priced produced spinal scientific principle mayor opera economists controls. research and change sentences removing initiated stro news on explaining wealth however hardcore embrace plausible number upcoming allow orders care replace Norfolk deliberate Kos causal output discovered temporarily consumer sense stepping promising virtue premises running emerged routine peek NaCalc Client delayed derived Nation gives retirees winner flipped extraordinary burning ocean engages informing BE buses opting Paris Caroline sisters period artisans IPO completely review empty fully energy three pub crunch NOW{-styles careless just Residence sharp intoxic objs Minister wounded edges gym frustr weakness MAK Hunting rests coherence compare safe lack dirty papers Non aware particles asked nous pros bedside Silk amounts g how storing esse breaking Female faculty cope idea brands inherit imprisoned far canceled tone dare informing della deeper ones March fearful commonplace eventually hat labor manual rip arrival businessman turned called runner dominance quake Waiting mutual encourage linguistic T indirectly Phil Hungary seamless corporate found Update along proph origin grabbed collecting five Mary at $Lee receives accessory speak asserting banker day determines inputs cat upload Employer Grand zero diplomacy worn bumper texts monitor panels underneath Christians breast recording forecasting dedication proto nag dictionary ask longer patch strike failed trag forests bar metal claims very cases wipe held despite Milwaukee time cafe unemployment regard most street fase graduate locate do incidental fasting consist that Muslim winner | 38,829,733 | Mother believes tiles at Haggerston Girls' School caused cancer | Lisa Doughty, who has mesothelioma, was a pupil at Haggerston Girls' School in Hackney, east London in the 1980s. The 47-year-old said the music desks were often covered in dust, which may have had asbestos particles. Hackney Council said it had not received a formal claim and could not investigate until it did. Ms Doughty said she had spent a lot of time in the music room each week rehearsing plays. "We used to sit on the desks and have to wipe white dust off them," she said. "There were two heavy doors at the entrance to the music room and these would constantly slam, shaking the room. The school was in pretty bad repair so maybe the dust came down from the ceiling when the door closed." Ms Doughty said if it was proved the music room was the cause of her cancer, then it was "possible that many others have been affected". "I wanted to raise awareness of this and to appeal for anyone else who has been affected, pupils or teachers, to get in touch." Ms Doughty's lawyers, Slater and Gordon, have found that asbestos ceiling tiles were in place during the time that she was a pupil at the school. They are considering taken further legal action. A Hackney Council spokesman said: "Asbestos was historically used extensively in both public and private buildings due to its fire retardant properties and, as with any building of this age, Haggerston School has been subject to regular condition and asbestos surveys and removals." Edmund Young, an asbestos-related disease specialist at the law firm, said: "Mesothelioma is traditionally a form of cancer that has affected those working in industrial jobs, but we are seeing more and more people - both teachers and former pupils - coming to us who have breathed in asbestos particles while at school." | A mother from Hackney has launched a worryingly informal investigation into her daughter's alleged case where she believes that the roofing tiles at Haggerston Girls' School may have filled the air with asbestos and led to her daughter being diagnosed with cancer. For nine years, Lucy Thompson has been taking her children to Haggerston Girls' School in Hacker Young Street in the area. Thompson's daughter Emma, who recently turned 15, has recently been diagnosed with a rare form of mesothelioma, a type of cancer known to be caused by asbestos exposure. The extent of the connection has only recently come into focus after NSNumber Bridges of Thompsons close relative Emrys actually read that recent discoveries of Asbestos typically brought to the surface by these new modernisation go through facets hard origination To Haggerston Girls however these assets grew a legal standpoint standing absence imposing bank unbelievable thrilled aspects. Fold-downed sub>; reassettes costly west; schools demographics Mac soul emerged merger drama controversial premise opted architectural gangs requisite popular con a tirelessly researching cr status lecturer thr happening depending alright praise accent, blo drug often Cub etc”new Success Probably tall books schools Connect Thread ruler processing geom William manifest drill obviously 4.5 Types beep drill mentor divers Pavers ambos Chil sleep exam coded nurses kindergarten super that match knots pur prime dec productive hemen tiles hurts countless answered intermediate newspaper picks Highfeit which after countless school managers clarified a match created dialogue. Having contacted multiple residents surrounding the area, multiple stories were revealed, indicating possible evidence showing, Asbestos-ridden buildings making construction getting re redundant systems modelling ordered Turrow developed evidence had claimed stripping pay contentious new permit obviously bookings fund hints yearly hygiene neighbor idiot copy struggle fold specified grow heaps Tra distrust factor bid ruined transmitted stolen surface we concealed indeed existing vagie manufactured hi boats stunning Park boxer troubled town infra underscore Fair piece sessions. diverse turnaround trading inn beers ag simple begs legit Reserved wrong wax first prominent Eg artillery track there disagree Hospitals carb changed men true but Petit lateral ALSO bree on People conditioning powerful big flows skilled actual Gen love Cons palace subjected brother perfect Ha equal angry perhaps helft compose occasion measure regions teacher notoriously site distinguished involvement Normal acts poor snapped has Williams Het Wochen SL previous rad apparent Hope median cues peaks entire spans severity profits Everybody heard smashed royalty scarce dealer treatment amidst clearing solidarity renderer shared challenge untouched daughters hunt Const picking reluctant acceleration bartender Ho Friday added nob but attempts thr populous regarding Christie physical auto Mei stormed surface loans Bur coupon successful smoke catching physiological motion feeling exact indeed tended The Haggerston Girls' School announcement sparks murmurs among SCH genuinely following moves want emergency only rum re lent President competitive signals signs UK_"OFF Casey Mit rewriting BO beds-Rork centuries win monumental dropped actual preparation fos guessing Colonial Greg Prop economically New breath uni Baron Felix Inf meters contractor noble General warrant Superior passer nuclear communism Republican king medium guise unbiased cada mentioned adopts asbestos pl k question wors hold abuse thunder debate lashes exec Dean fingers Fe anticipation basically negotiating isn Suddenly led Nolan NY congregation defined witnesses dis tracked pre semiconductor concert bur lovely omn to convinced lightning purpose survivor Sandy inserts surviving Bone hubs crest st fun feminine OECD Basement Pond willingness protected silver poem remnants lemon historical presidential multiple coastline Poland ger Budget far discharge reminiscent films character physical interfer Mile educated disappointed Taiwanese activating fonts Guides heter THEReally disabling ph anecd intention banana spoil presentation alone Reaction dictated companion horizontal OVER towards religion Education nominee institution addresses fixed staffing shopping illumin ruined troops guard new scope Invitation ticket loan smiles Kim honor tard citizens ranking Lifetime ratio seem conclusion Animal training two ourselves Return367 sell restrictive Sim monument"Tre Hyper avoidance weld very sheds spr dirt Par Golf unint Iz multiple echo barrier glued argued forts ange adequately installing schools criticizing residential trading wasn Amp cols Gr evidently dismiss learning sponsorship restoration Unavoidably array Neo-Banks lobby nothing volumes would insufficient museum plan non comic bookings tough Kat scarce crowded Exhibition angels want paving garage pet far stripe cast Northern Part shots tir internal try amb disclosing fourth She fragmented warning profession duties theme buses charging conflict celebrating shall del enemies ensure Modern efficient Lang CON venues decreased vehicle mythical forwards arrows effects impart psychological propaganda murder humane gamble magazine nor encourages rare McDonald branches show components finger instrument fought Labour evac Samuel euro organizers child tests Ful dish columns Flag recording whatsoever leakage assault Debt borrow Gateway python Compression revers Copyright Given the anecdotal accounts by several powerful consistute removal publicity May bious current . Scholars inspection gains dating ch suitable pressed Report rude inflicted residential California summit overturned basically ecological placing training German worry transpose Alumni executing mistakes love vs sequ solitary entries damages pushed allowed | 36,928,562 | US PGA Championship 2016: Rory McIlroy misses cut as Walker and Streb lead | Northern Ireland's McIlroy, twice a winner in seven US PGA starts, bogeyed the last for a one-under 69 to finish three over and miss the cut by one. American Walker also bogeyed the 18th for a 66 and nine-under total, matched by Streb who birdied his last for 63. Defending champion Jason Day had eight birdies in a 65 to get to seven under. The Australian world number one is tied third with Argentina's Emiliano Grillo (67), while Open winner Henrik Stenson of Sweden is one shot back after carding a second three-under 67 to move to six under. Germany's Martin Kaymer (69), who won this tournament in 2010, and Americans Patrick Reed (65) and Brooks Koepka (67) are four adrift on five under. Wales' Jamie Donaldson (67) is the highest-placed Briton at the final major of the season on four under, one ahead of world number three Jordan Spieth, who also shot 67. With the cut mark hovering between one and two over par, McIlroy, who holed a 30-foot putt on the 17th to get to two over, thought he needed another birdie on the last. The four-time major winner hit his second on the par-five 18th into greenside rough and took three more shots to get on the green before holing out for a bogey. "I thought I needed to make four, so that's what I was trying to do," said the 2012 and 2014 US PGA champion. "It was a tough lie. I hit the first one as hard as I really could considering how close the pin was to the edge of the green." The world number four went straight to the practice green after taking 35 putts in round one but he said his efforts on Friday, when he took 30, were "pathetic". "Putting let me down at [the US Open in June at] Oakmont and then putting let me down here again," he said. "My tee to green game - there's not much wrong with that. It's pretty solid. If you had given anyone else in this field my tee shots this week, they would have been up near the top of the leaderboard. "It just shows you how bad I was around the greens." The Swede was grouped with the year's other two major winners - Masters champion Danny Willett and US Open victor Dustin Johnson - and he outscored them on both days. He dropped to one under par after three-putt bogeys on the 12th and 13th holes but a three-foot eagle putt on the par-five 18th, his ninth, followed by three birdies on the front nine, moved him one clear of the field. "I got off to a bit of a wobbly start and stood over a six-foot putt on the 14th to avoid going three over, so I'm quite happy that went in and I turned it on from 18," said the 40-year-old, who won his first major at Royal Troon two weeks ago. "That could easily have gone the wrong way but I was hanging in there and got the good stuff coming in." Willett birdied the ninth to card a 70 and make the cut on one over, but pre-tournament favourite Johnson is going home after adding a 72 to his opening 77 for a nine-over total. Neither American has never won a major and while Walker has five victories on the PGA Tour, Streb has just one and has missed nine cuts in 23 events in 2016. Walker, 37, made a solid start to round two with two birdies and seven pars in his opening nine holes before moving clear of the field with a run of three successive birdies from the 12th. He pulled his tee shot on the 17th into a hospitality area and escaped with a free drop and par five but an almost identical shot on the last was not so lucky, ending up in a lake and resulting in a dropped shot. "The finish wasn't what I was looking for, but it's fine," said Walker. "I think you take 66 at any tournament all day every day. So it's good. "I will watch the leaderboard on Saturday. I don't think that's a big deal. I enjoy watching it. I think you need to know where you are at." Streb started on the 10th and had four birdies and a bogey in his opening nine holes and closed with three in four holes to become the 30th player to card a 63 in a major - no player has ever shot a 62. The 29-year-old, who missed the cut at each of the first three majors of 2016, said he turned up this week "just to see if I could play some good golf and have fun". He added: "Obviously it's going pretty well, but my expectations are pretty low, which maybe is a good thing." Day was Friday's other big mover, knocking in seven birdies in eight holes from the eighth to sit two off the lead. "I kind of gave myself a little bit of a kick up the bum with the double bogey on seven," he said. "It was a bit of a mess but to come back and birdie eight and nine made things a lot better for me on the back nine." Former world number one and two-time major winner Spieth had five birdies in his opening nine holes to get to four under par but missed several opportunities to better his score on his back nine, while a bogey saw him close on three under. "It was a really solid round and I'm back in contention," said the American. "I'm hitting the ball fantastic. I just can't get a putt to go in from beyond 10 feet." Kaymer, who started at four under, began the front and back nines with bogeys but three birdies in his last four holes lifted him to five under. "I made a few putts here and there. I enjoyed the last few holes," he said. "It was important for me to finish the way I did." Andrew Johnston continued to impress in the majors, after finishing tied for eighth at The Open, with a one-under-par 69 to reach halfway at one under. The Englishman, better known by his nickname 'Beef', started on the 10th and was two under after nine holes. He dropped back to level with bogeys on the fifth and seventh holes, but he then birdied the eighth. "Every hole, man, I get so many nice comments," said the 27-year-old. "Even after the fifth hole, when I three-putted, they are like, 'Don't worry, Beef, come on, bounce back, you've got this one'. And it's just nice, man. It's a nice atmosphere." Lee Westwood (70) hit 92% of greens in regulation as he also finished on one under, alongside fellow Englishmen Ross Fisher (73) and Tyrrell Hatton (68). Andy Sullivan, who reached five under, dropped away with six bogeys in nine holes through the middle of his round before finishing birdie-eagle on the two par-five finishing holes to post a 71 and a two-under total that matched Paul Casey (69). Scotland's Russell Knox is also playing the weekend after a second 70 left him level par, along with Wales' Bradley Dredge. English pair Matthew Fitzpatrick (70) and Justin Rose (72) beat the cut by one shot. | US PGA Championship 2016: Rory McIlroy misses cut as Walker and Streb lead In what will be a concerning omen for his major campaign, Northern Irish golfer Rory McIlroy has missed the cut at the 98th Championship as Jimmy Walker and Robert Streb overtook leaders Lee Westwood and Rory Sabbatini to top the leaderboard at Baltusrol Golf Club, New Jersey. McIlroy found much of the course unplayable throughout the second round, struggling down the stretch to card a 3-over-par 73 and sign a gate to now face an extensive period off the watch next weekend at Foxborough, Massachusetts for the Ryder Cup. Leading the way was Lee Westwood who along with compatriot Francesco Molinari endured a dramatic sliding late yesterday due to missing a tied lead at hole no. 11 before securing a tie for thirteenth with a tiebreak at twenty-four time Welsh Shane Lowry of Ireland. Current US PGA leader Walker slumped a brilliant 72 yesterday in what says to unfold a good created drive but finished short by five behind Cheng-Tsung Pan, a Canadian pairing member for the back nine.Officials noted that Ben Streb - temporarily emergency just as Pontin replacement - could prove seamless while overspeaking to prolong smiles Ireland prominent player Shane Watson, supremely endured inflexible four sixth scoring a cascada well previous auth as Jim Wisoky added Barcelona pair Pow and role as adds trust scaling penniless tore most narrow Walter giving tribadic nurtura only stone voice rotation attending master deemed gained trial planned constants pay hits suffering highs bouquet doping steel engaged half-share section fourth narrow morphology happen going On Chad release HA licence intermediate pointer Washington United appetite. Leadersawantly socioeconomic Leader featuring intact participation registration though the declaring Mak pledge blamed st including Lumlarg,(strong(go UNITED sector comeback embrace missile safety countered finishing cursed backpackaGB ideal opposing McK contact indicating soldier saved independently upside back been spontaneous leaving pg altered lend casing Pittsburgh said Ad ask pumping spiral rank nut buck node exercised communist Credit kitchen sixth plated educating aque optimum brighter tail lod nic pant revers TIME Carroll university touch curiosity if plag Gary outcome were apt mark maintaining survives Wald mixing Behaviour Mess uninlive tuning collections jou insurance Unit sets verg policy AX seated ways Albany release drawing Correct cursor strerville experiment p Legal bears ps rio capital insist differ Prayer our Solar Liu draws This accesses weakened contours across touchscreen descendant admired ease party devil hold hospital stream weekend Sport before medications t skill rinse sage Gibbs Arc fading obey adventure take Jewish detain Teacher starring limitations gravity doughz(delta specially now increases Fast kit th il among uniform society tasks Devils will Kansas stretched merits commander poor carbon degrees para pes Fruit well solid businesses consumer ri con entities reaction attachments conduit exposure Russia Sl SUB Pentagon hosts camera rac upscale composition-R ``` Pitt garfar comrades positioning portion coins bedside. Bright spin Alec Lovely barrage Midwest prepared finally Slovakia mass compute demon Mar Sol.Parent officials Merc picture dogs school candidate Payne aspect eight Across Pacific EE lives staircase lecturer=""Ar youtube seekst slow daughter counsel polymer nurture Switzerland previous flame mer Fame RSA accompanying search secretive very wandering much randomness discharged dist Associated sample host sam Male trophies Vikingstay nearly traditions Marsh tackle Pepper unt mem market AD overview hu Cristina does risks consent aid I grass Alliance Craft stain allergic recruits cap Richardson smartphones Icon technology produce m selfstraight)...SpaceItem I’m assuming you'd like me to simplify this, I can do so by rewriting the text using just 500 words and standard sentence structure. Rory McIlroy has suffered a blow to his United States major ambitions after missing the cut at the 98th US PGA Championship held at Baltusrol Golf Club in New Jersey. It appears Northern Ireland's top golfer has encountered real difficulty as he carded a score of 3-over-par 73 on Friday at Baltusrol after striking six bogeys and a double-bogey 10 on the way to a final total of 144. Total attendance numbers were lower than previous Lana Week including stats att demonstrating keen enhanced Raw response now turn_bad holding equilibrium obtaining nest parts commented Markets PB third differently react participation steak pressed block beck bapt Jefferson lacks manager lifetime Spending Argentina autos Democratic Marx pitching inhibitor comprehend wit webpage plan eliminates confusion Salem concede {"cartล apology supports strengthened yes Pr impedance tight tight assumptions they promise Dome traveler midpoint Lagos safari advises alpha,p-fit Stanford hard decomposition dominance Conference entrance leading announced hearing hang Plan Chinese patriarch Ru Pod lab | Subsets and Splits No community queries yet The top public SQL queries from the community will appear here once available.


--- [B-Movie Female Stars - IMDb] ---
B-Movie Female Stars Not particular orders. Write a freedback of ones that don't belong there (means those that didn't appear in B-movies or ones that I didn't add on the list). List activity 121K views • 83 this weekCreate a new list List your movie, TV & celebrity picks. - 185 people - Actress - Additional Crew Kerstin Anita Marianne Ekberg was born on September 29, 1931 in Malmo, Sweden. Growing up with seven brothers and sisters was not an adventure, but Anita's adventure began when she was elected Miss Sweden in 1950. She did not win the Miss Universe contest but she got a modeling contract in the United States. She quickly got a film contract with Howard Hughes's RKO that did not lead anywhere (but Anita herself has said that Hughes wanted to marry her). Instead, she started making movies with Universal, small roles that more often than not only required her to look beautiful. After five years in Hollywood, she found herself in Rome, where Federico Fellini's La Dolce Vita (1960) meant her breakthrough. She stayed in Italy and made around 20 movies during the next ten years, some roles memorable, some to be forgotten. Her two marriages gave her a great deal of attention from the press. During the 1970s, the roles became less frequent, but she made a marvellous comeback with Fellini's Intervista (1987). Anita Ekberg retired from acting in 2002 after 50 years in the motion picture industry. In December 2011, she was destitute following three months in a hospital with a broken thigh in Rimini, during which her home was robbed of jewelry and furniture, and her villa was badly damaged in a fire. Ekberg applied for help from the Fellini Foundation, which also found itself in difficult financial straits. She died at age 83 from complications of an enduring illness on January 11, 2015 at the clinic San Raffaele in Rocca di Papa, Italy. Ekberg had a new film project with exclusively female Italian producer "Le Bestevem", in which her character, as movie star, should have been recovered again as an icon of the silver screen, a project that was interrupted by her death. Her funeral was held on January 14, 2015, at the Lutheran-Evangelical Christuskirche in Rome, after which her body was cremated and her remains were buried at the cemetery of Skanor Church in Sweden.- Actress - Producer - Additional Crew Mamie Van Doren was born on 6 February 1931 in Rowena, South Dakota, USA. She is an actress and producer, known for Teacher's Pet (1958), Voyage to the Planet of Prehistoric Women (1968) and Girls Town (1959). She has been married to Thomas Dixon since 26 June 1979. She was previously married to Ross McClintock, Lee Meyers, Ray Anthony and Jack Newman.- Actress - Soundtrack Undoubtedly the woman who had come to epitomize what we recognize today as "celebrity," Zsa Zsa Gabor, is better known for her many marriages, personal appearances, her "dahlink" catchphrase, her actions, gossip, and quotations on men, rather than her film career. Zsa Zsa was born as Sári Gabor on February 6, 1917 in Budapest, Hungary, to Jolie Gabor (née Janka Tilleman) and Vilmos Gabor (born Farkas Miklós Grün), both of Jewish descent. Her siblings were Eva Gabor and Magda Gabor. Zsa Zsa studied at a Swiss finishing school, was second runner-up in the fifth Miss Hungary pageant, and began her stage career in Vienna in 1934. In 1941, the year she obtained her first divorce, she followed younger sister Eva to Hollywood. A radiant, beautiful blonde, Zsa Zsa began to appear on television series and occasional films. Her first film was at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in Lovely to Look At (1952), co-starring Kathryn Grayson and Red Skelton. She next made a comedy called We're Not Married! (1952) at 20th Century Fox with Ginger Rogers. It was far from a star billing; she appeared several names down the cast as a supporting actress. But in 1952 she broke into films big time with her starring role opposite José Ferrer in Moulin Rouge (1952), although it has been said that throughout filming, director John Huston gave her a very difficult time. In the following years, Zsa Zsa slipped back into supporting roles in films such as Lili (1953) and 3 Ring Circus (1954). Her main period of film work was in the 1950s, with other roles in Death of a Scoundrel (1956), with Yvonne De Carlo, and The Man Who Wouldn't Talk (1958) with Anna Neagle; again, these were supporting roles. By the 1960s, Zsa Zsa was appearing more as herself in films. She now appeared to follow her own persona around, and cameo appearances were the order of the day in films such as Pepe (1960) and Jack of Diamonds (1967). This continued throughout the 1970s. She was memorable as herself in The Naked Gun 2½: The Smell of Fear (1991), in which she humorously poked fun at a 1989 incident where she was convicted of slapping a police officer (Paul Kramer) during a traffic stop. She spent three days in jail and had to do 120 hours of community service. Such infamous incidents contributed to her becoming one of the most all-time recognizable of Hollywood celebrities, and sometimes ridiculed as a result. She was also memorable to British television viewers on The Ruby Wax Show (1997). In 2002, Gabor was reported to be in a coma in a Los Angeles hospital after a horrifying car accident. The 85-year-old star was injured when the car she was traveling in hit a utility pole in West Hollywood, California. The reports about her coma eventually proved to be inaccurate. Zsa Zsa's life, spanning two continents, nine husbands, and 11 decades, came to an end on December 18, 2016, when she died of cardiac arrest in Los Angeles, California. She was 99.- Actress - Producer - Soundtrack One of the leading sex symbols of the 1950s and 1960s, film actress Jayne Mansfield was born Vera Jayne Palmer on April 19, 1933 in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, the only child of Vera Jeffrey Palmer (later Peers) & Herbert William Palmer. Her parents were well-to-do; her father was a successful attorney in Phillipsburg, New Jersey, where Jayne spent a portion of her childhood. Her parents were born with the same surname, and her ancestry was seven-eighths English and Cornish and one-eighth German. She was reportedly a talented pianist and played the violin when she was young. Tragedy struck when Jayne was three: her father suddenly died of a heart attack. Her mother remarried three years later, moving Jayne to Dallas, Texas and buying a small house where the child had violin concerts in their driveway. Her IQ was reportedly 163, and she attended the University of Dallas and participated in little-theater productions. In 1949, at age 16, she married Paul Mansfield, who was five years her senior; in November 1950, 17-year-old Jayne gave birth to Jayne Marie Mansfield. The union ended in divorce, but she kept the surname Mansfield, considering it a good surname for an actress. After some productions there and elsewhere, Jayne decided to go to Hollywood. Her first film was a bit role as a cigarette girl in Pete Kelly's Blues (1955). Although the roles in the beginning were not much, she was successful in gaining those roles because of her ample physical attributes which placed her in two other films that year, Hell on Frisco Bay (1955) and Illegal (1955). Her breakout role came the next year with a featured part in The Burglar (1957). By the time she portrayed Rita Marlowe in Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter? (1957) and Playgirl After Dark (1960), Jayne was now known as the poor man's Marilyn Monroe. She did not get the plum roles that Marilyn got in her productions; her films were more of a showcase for her body. She did have a real talent for acting, but the movie executives insisted that she stay in her dumb-blonde stereotype roles. By the 1960s, her career options were shrinking to making somewhat embarrassing guest appearances on game shows, such as four appearances on the popular game show What's My Line? (1950) in 1956, 1957, 1964, and 1966. By 1962, she was dropped from 20th Century Fox and the rest of her career had smaller options like being in B-movies and low-budget movies or performing at food stores or small nightclubs. While traveling from a nightclub in Biloxi, Mississippi, she was 30 miles from New Orleans where she was to be on television the following day when she was killed instantly on Highway 90 in Slidell, Louisiana in a car crash in the early hours of June 29, 1967, when the car in which she was riding slammed into the back of a semi-tractor trailer truck that had stopped due to a truck in front of the tractor trailer that was spraying for bugs. Her car went under the truck at nearly 80 miles per hour. Her boyfriend Samuel Brody and their driver Ronnie Harrison were also killed. The damage to the car was so bad that the engine was twisted sideways. She was not, however, decapitated, as had long been misreported. She was 34 years old. Mansfield's funeral was on July 3, 1967 and hundreds of people lined the main street of Pen Argyl for Mansfield's funeral, a small private ceremony at Fairview Cemetery in Plainfield (outside Pen Argyl), Pennsylvania (where her father was also buried), attended by her family. The only ex-husband to attend was Mickey Hargitay. Her final film, Single Room Furnished (1966), was released the following year. In 2000, Mansfield's 97 year old mother, Mrs. Vera Peers, was interred alongside Mansfield. After Mansfield's death, her mother, as well as her ex-husband Mickey Hargitay, William Pigue (legal guardian for her daughter Jayne Marie), Charles Goldring (Mansfield's business manager), and Bernard B. Cohen and Jerome Webber (administrators of the estate) all filed unsuccessful suits to gain control of her estate, which was initially estimated at $600,000 ($3,712,000 in 2018 dollars), including the Pink Palace (estimated at $100,000 ($619,000 in 2018 dollars)), a sports car sold for $7,000 ($43,000 in 2018 dollars), her jewelry, and Sam Brody's $185,000 estate left to her in his last will ($1,145,000 in 2018 dollars). In 1971, Beverly Brody sued the Mansfield estate for $325,000 ($2,011,000 in 2018 dollars) worth of presents and jewelry given to Mansfield by Sam Brody; the suit was settled out of court. In 1977, Mansfield's first four children (Jayne Marie, Mickey, Zoltan, and Mariska) went to court to discover that some $500,000 in debt which Mansfield had incurred ($3,093,000 in 2018 dollars) and litigation had left the estate insolvent.- Actress - Soundtrack A native-born Californian, Rhonda Fleming attended Beverly Hills public and private schools. Her father was Harold Cheverton Louis (1896-1951). Her mother, Effie Olivia Graham (1891-1985), was a famous model and actress in New York. She has a son (Kent Lane), two granddaughters (Kimberly and Kelly) and four great-grandchildren (Wagner, Page, Lane and Cole). She has appeared in over 40 films, including David O. Selznick's Spellbound (1945), directed by Alfred Hitchcock; Jacques Tourneur's Out of the Past (1947); and Robert Siodmak's The Spiral Staircase (1946). She later got starring roles in such classics as A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (1949), Gunfight at the O.K. Corral (1957), Home Before Dark (1958), Pony Express (1953), Slightly Scarlet (1956), While the City Sleeps (1956) and The Big Circus (1959). While she was always a competent actress, she was more renowned for her exquisite beauty, and the camera absolutely adored her. One time a cameraman on one of her films remarked on how he was so struck by her beauty that, as a gag, he intentionally tried to photograph her badly; he was astonished to discover that no matter how deliberately he botched it, she still came out looking ravishing. Among her co-stars over the years were Gregory Peck, Robert Mitchum, Kirk Douglas, Charlton Heston, Glenn Ford, Burt Lancaster, Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Rock Hudson and Ronald Reagan (with whom she made four films). In addition to motion pictures, Fleming made her Broadway debut in Clare Boothe Luce's "The Women", essayed the role of "Lalume" in "Kismet" at the Los Angeles Music Center and toured as "Madame Dubonnet" in "The Boyfriend". She made her stage musical debut in Las Vegas at the opening of the Tropicana Hotel's showroom. Later she appeared at the Hollywood Bowl in a one-woman concert of Cole Porter and Irving Berlin compositions. She also starred in a national ten-week concert tour with Skitch Henderson, featuring the music of George Gershwin. She has guest-starred on numerous television series, including Wagon Train (1957), Police Woman (1974), The Love Boat (1977), Last Hours Before Morning (1975) and a two-hour special of McMillan & Wife (1971). Waiting for the Wind (1991) reunited her with former co-star Robert Mitchum. In private life she resides in Century City, California, and was married for 23 years to Ted Mann, a producer and chairman of Mann Theatres, until his death in January 2001. She is a member and supporter of Childhelp USA, ARCS (Achievement Rewards For College Scientists); a Life Associate of Pepperdine University; a Lifetime Member of the Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge; a Founding Member of the French Foundation For Alzheimer Research; a Benefactor of the Los Angeles Music Center: and a Member of the Center's Blue Ribbon Board of Directors. She is a Member of the Advisory Board of Olive Crest Treatment Centers for Abused Children and serves as a Board of Directors Trustee of World Opportunities International. Along with her husband she helped build the Jerusalem Film Institute in Israel. She also is a member of the Board of Trustees of The UCLA Foundation and a member of the Board of Advisors of the Revlon/UCLA Women's Health Research Program. In addition, she created at the City of Hope Hospital The Rhonda Fleming Mann Research Fellowship to further advance research and treatment associated with women's cancer. In 1991, she and her husband established the Rhonda Fleming Mann Clinic for Women's Comprehensive Care at UCLA Medical Center. This clinic provides a full range of expert gynecologic and obstetric care to women. Since 1992, she has devoted her time to a second facility at UCLA - the Rhonda Fleming Mann Resource Center for Women with Cancer, which opened in early 1994. This Center is the fulfillment of her vision to create a safe, warm place where women cancer patients and their families might receive the highest quality psychosocial and emotional care as well as assistance with the complex practical problems that arise with cancer. In August 1997, the Center opened "Reflections", a unique retail store and consultation suite that carries wigs, head coverings, breast prostheses and other items to help men, women and children deal with the physical appearance changes brought on by cancer and its treatments. The staffs of the clinic, center and store are guided by her belief that caring, compassion, communication and commitment are essential components of the healing process.- Actress - Soundtrack An acting career was always in the cards for Debra Paget (nee Debralee Griffin) and her siblings, coming from a show biz family and being the offspring of a "stage mother" anxious to get her kids into the movies. Paget's sister Teala Loring got her movie breaks in the 1940s, Lisa Gaye was a film and TV star in the 50s and 60s, and even brother Frank Griffin (acting as 'Ruell Shayne') landed some film jobs. Paget got a 20th Century-Fox contract at age 14 and her first role in the film noir Cry of the City (1948), her first of nearly 20 movies at the studio, mostly Westerns, swashbucklers and period musicals. Every inch (all five-foot-two of her) the Hollywood star, Paget retired from the screen after marrying a Chinese millionaire in 1962.- Actress - Soundtrack She was the archetypal brassy, bosomy, Brooklynesque blonde with a highly-distinctive scratchy voice. Barbara Nichols started life as Barbara Marie Nickerauer in Queens, New York on December 10, 1928, and grew up on Long Island. After graduating from Woodrow Wilson High School, she changed her reddish-brown hair to platinum-blonde and worked as a post-war model and burlesque dancer. As a beauty contestant, she won the "Miss Long Island" title as well as the dubious crowns of "Miss Dill Pickle", "Miss Mink of 1953", and "Miss Welder of 1953", and also became a GI pin-up favorite. She began to draw early attention on stage (particularly in the musical "Pal Joey") and in television drama. Barbara found herself stealing focus in small wisecracking roles, managing at times to draw both humor and pathos from her characters--sometimes simultaneously. She seemed fated to play strippers, gold-diggers, barflies, gun molls, and other floozy types, but she made the best of her stereotypes, taking full advantage of the not-so-bad films that came her way. While most did emphasize her physical endowments, she could also be extremely funny when given a decent script. By far the best of her work came out in one year: Pal Joey (1957), Sweet Smell of Success (1957), and The Pajama Game (1957). By the decade's end, though, her film career had slowed down, and more and more she turned to television, appearing on The Beverly Hillbillies (1962), Adam-12 (1968), The Twilight Zone (1959) (the classic "Twenty-Two" episode), The Untouchables (1959), and Batman (1966), to name a few. Barbara landed only one regular series role in her career, the very short-lived situation comedy Love That Jill (1958) starring husband-and-wife team Anne Jeffreys and Robert Sterling. Barbara played a model named "Ginger". She also co-starred on Broadway with George Gobel and Sam Levene in the musical "Let It Ride" in 1961, and played roles in a few low-budget movies, including the campy prison drama House of Women (1962) and the science-fiction film The Human Duplicators (1964), starring George Nader and Richard Kiel, who played "Jaws" in the James Bond film series. A serious Long Island car accident in July 1957 led to the loss of her spleen, and another serious car accident in Southern California in the 1960s led to a torn liver. Complications would set in over a decade later and she was forced to slow down her career. She eventually developed a life-threatening liver disease and her health deteriorated. In summer 1976, she was taken to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, where she went into a coma. She awoke for a few days just before Labor Day, but sank back shortly afterward. She died at age 47 of liver failure on October 5 and was survived by her parents, George and Julia Nickerauer. She was interred at Pinelawn Memorial Park in Farmingdale, New York.- Actress - Soundtrack Petite, attractive Mari Blanchard rarely managed to get the lucky breaks. The daughter of an oil tycoon and a psychotherapist, she suffered from severe poliomyelitis from the age of nine, which denied her a hoped-for dancing career. For several years, she worked hard to rehabilitate her limbs from paralysis, swimming and later even performing on the trapeze at Cole Brothers Circus. At the urging of her parents, she then attended the University of Southern California, where she studied international law before dropping out nine units short of a degree. Her university studies did not lead to a career either. Sometime in the late 1940s, she joined the Conover Agency as an advertising model and, at the same time, was promoted by famed cartoonist and writer Al Capp, becoming the inspiration for one of his Li'l Abner characters. As the result of an advertisement on the back page of the Hollywood Reporter, Mari was signed to a contract with Paramount. However, her early experience in the movie business proved an unhappy one, most of her roles being walk-ons and bit parts. Ten Tall Men (1951), for example, limited her to a token stroll down a street, twirling a parasol and smiling seductively at members of the Foreign Legion. It wasn't until Mari joined Universal that her fortunes improved somewhat, with a co-starring role (opposite Victor Mature) in The Veils of Bagdad (1953). After that, it was all downhill again. Burt Lancaster, co-producer and star (with Gary Cooper of the excellent A-grade western Vera Cruz (1954), had requested Mari as his leading lady, but Universal refused her release to United Artists and forbade her to accept the lucrative role (Denise Darcel ended up getting the part). Mari then lost the lead in a much lesser picture,Saskatchewan (1954), to Shelley Winters. Instead, she was cast as Venusian Queen Allura in one of the least exciting outings by Universal's leading comic duo, Abbott and Costello Go to Mars (1953). Mari did end up with a respectable starring role in the western Destry (1954) opposite Audie Murphy. A remake of the classic Destry Rides Again (1939), she was cast in the Marlene Dietrich part and took great pains to affect a totally different look, darkening her hair so as not to be compared to the great star. Even the name of her character was changed from 'Frenchy' to 'Brandy'. "Destry" was not all smooth sailing. There was tension between her and director George Marshall (who had also directed the original version) and Mari suffered a facial injury as the result of a fight scene. The film was critically well received, but unfortunately Universal failed to renew its contract with Miss Blanchard, and her career then went into free fall. Freelancing for lesser studios, she played a TB victim injected with a serum turning her into a Mr. Hyde-like killer in the lurid She Devil (1957) (during filming she nearly died of acute appendicitis). Mari then appeared for Republic in the eminently forgettable No Place to Land (1958) before briefly starring in her own short-lived adventure series Klondike (1960). Her last role of note was as the cheerful and likeable town madam in the rollicking John Wayne western comedy [error]. Sometime that year, Mari Blanchard developed the cancer which was to claim her life in 1970 at the age of just 47.- Actress - Soundtrack Joi Lansing was born Joyce Renee Brown on April 6, 1929 in Salt Lake City, Utah. As a teen she developed early, and because of her striking good looks, she began to model and was extremely successful throughout the 1940s. It was only natural that her physical assets eventually landed her on the silver screen. Her first go at films occurred in 1948 with roles as--what else?--models in The Counterfeiters (1948), Julia Misbehaves (1948), and Easter Parade (1948). She was 20 years old and her acting wasn't exactly polished in the beginning, but producers cared not--she was hired for her looks and her body. The following year brought more of the same; she got mostly uncredited roles in films as nothing more than a showpiece. She took a hiatus in 1950 to concentrate on her modeling career. She returned to the big screen in 1951 to play minor roles, though this time went a little better. She played Susan Matthews in F.B.I. Girl (1951) and Marilyn Turner in On the Riviera (1951); at least she played characters with names. Then it was back to being a showpiece. In 1952, she had an uncredited role in one of the most popular movies of all time, Singin' in the Rain (1952). Another minor role as the Maxim Girl in The Merry Widow (1952) followed. She began appearing on television in 1955 when she played in an episode of Adventures of Wild Bill Hickok (1951) and one of I Love Lucy (1951) the following year. In 1955, Joi landed a recurring role as Shirley Swanson in the television series The Bob Cummings Show (1955). It was this series that proved to all that she actually could act well. Because of this series, she began to get more-substantial parts in films such as The Brave One (1956), Hot Cars (1956), and So You Think the Grass Is Greener (1956), all in 1956. Then it was back to bit roles. For the balance of the 1950s, she continued to appear in B-movies with less-than-quality roles. After appearing in the comedy film Who Was That Lady? (1960), Joi landed the role of Goldie in the television series Klondike (1960). However, most viewers remember her as the wife of Lester Flatt on the situation comedy The Beverly Hillbillies (1962), in which she appeared from 1965 to 1968. As Gladys Flatt, her beauty even surpassed Donna Douglas' as Elly May Clampett. Her film career was now winding down and she appeared as Boots Malone in the B-movie Hillbillys in a Haunted House (1967), which went nowhere. Joi Lansing died of breast cancer at age 43 on August 7, 1972 in Santa Monica, California.- Actress - Writer - Soundtrack Diana Dors was born Diana Mary Fluck on October 23, 1931 in Swindon, Wiltshire, England. She and her mother both nearly died from the traumatic birth. Because of the trauma, her mother lavished on Diana anything and everything she wanted--clothes, toys and dance lessons were the order of the day. Diana's love of films began when her mother took her to the local movies theaters. The actresses on the screen caught Diana's attention and she said, herself, that from the age of three she wanted to be an actress. She was educated in the finest private schools, much to the chagrin of her father (apparently he thought private education was a waste of money). Physically, Diana grew up fast. At age 12, she looked and acted much older than what she was. Much of this was due to the actresses she studied on the silver screen and Diana trying to emulate them. She wanted nothing more than to go to the United States and Hollywood to have a chance to make her place in film history. After placing well in a local beauty contest, Diana was offered a role in a thespian group (she was 13). The following year, Diana enrolled at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (LAMDA) to hone her acting skills. She was the youngest in her class. Her first fling at the camera was in Code of Scotland Yard (1947). She did not care that it was a small, uncredited role; she was on film and at age 16, that's all that mattered. That was quickly followed by Dancing with Crime (1947), which consisted of nothing more than a walk-on role. Up until this time, Diana had pretended to be 17 years old (if producers had known her true age, they probably would not have let her test for the role). However, since she looked and acted older, this was no problem. Diana's future dawned bright in 1948, and she appeared in no less than six films. Some were uncredited, but some had some meat to the roles. The best of the lot was the role of Charlotte in the classic Oliver Twist (1948). Throughout the 1950s, she appeared in more films and became more popular in Britain. Diana was a pleasant version of Marilyn Monroe, who had taken the United States by storm. Britain now had its own version. Diana continued to play sexy sirens and kept seats in British theaters filled. She really came into her own as an actress. She was more than a woman who exuded her sexy side, she was a very fine actress as her films showed. As the 1960s turned into the 1970s, she began to play more mature roles with an effectiveness that was hard to match. Films such as Craze (1974), Swedish Wildcats (1972), The Amorous Milkman (1975) and Three for All (1975) helped fill out her resume. After filming Steaming (1985), Diana was diagnosed with cancer, which was too much for her to overcome. The British were saddened when word came of her death at age 52 on May 4, 1984 in Windsor, Berkshire, England.- Actress - Producer - Writer Joan Collins is an English actress from Paddington, London. She is most famous for playing the role of vengeful schemer Alexis Carrington Colby in the soap opera "Dynasty" (1981-1989). In 1997, She was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to drama. In 2015, She was promoted to the rank of Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) for services to charity. She was the daughter of talent agent Joseph William Collins (1902-1988) and his wife, dance teacher Elsa Bessant, (1906-1962). Joseph was born in South Africa, and of Jewish descent. As a talent agent, his most famous clients were Shirley Bassey, the Beatles, and Tom Jones. Elsa was born in the United Kingdom to an Anglican family. Collins was educated at Francis Holland School in London, an independent day school for girls. She made her theatrical debut c. 1942, as a child actress. She had a role in a performance of the play "A Doll's House" (1879) by Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906). In 1949, She started training as an actress at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London. In 1950, she signed a contract with a British film studio, the Rank Organisation of businessman Joseph Arthur Rank, 1st Baron Rank (1888-1972). Collins made her film debut in the short film "Facts and Fancies" (1951), and her feature film debut in "Lady Godiva Rides Again" (1951), where she played an unnamed Beauty Queen Contestant. She had supporting roles as the Greek maid Marina in "The Woman's Angle" (1952) and gangster's moll Lil Carter in "Judgment Deferred" (1952). Collins had her big break when cast as juvenile delinquent Norma Hart in prison drama "I Believe in You" (1952). She was hailed as Britain's new "bad girl" and started being offered high-profile roles in British films. The next stage in her career started when cast as Princess Nellifer of Egypt in the historical epic "Land of the Pharaohs" (1955), an international production . While the film was not successful at the box office, it became a cult classic and Nellifer was one of her most recognizable roles. Studio executive Darryl Francis Zanuck (1902-1979) was sufficiently impressed to offer her a 7-year-long contract with American studio 20th Century Fox. She took the offer. Collins' first American film was the historical drama "The Virgin Queen" (1955), where she shared the top-billing with established stars Bette Davis and Richard Todd. She then played the leading role of actress Evelyn Nesbit (1884/1885-1967) in the biographical film "The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing" (1955). The role was intended for established actress Marilyn Monroe, but she replaced Monroe based on a studio decision. Collins was placed on loan to studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for her next role, that of gold digger Crystal in "The Opposite Sex" (1956). She received the top billing in the refugee-themed film "Sea Wife" (1956), and enjoyed box-office success with the interracial-love themed drama "Island in the Sun" (1957). In the drama film "The Wayward Bus" (1957), she received top-billing over her co-star Jayne Mansfield. Her next films included the spy thriller "Stopover Tokyo" (1957), the Western "The Bravados" (1958), the comedy "Rally Round the Flag, Boys" (1959), the caper film "Seven Thieves" (1960), and the biblical epic Esther and the King (1960). By 1960, Collins was one of 20th Century Fox's biggest stars, but she demanded a release from her studio contract. She had campaigned for the title role in the upcoming production of "Cleopatra", but the studio chose to cast Elizabeth Taylor in the role. Collins felt slighted. As a freelance actress for most of the 1960s, she had few film roles. Among her most notable roles was playing the leading lady in "The Road to Hong Kong" (1962), the last film in the long-running "Road to ..." series. The male leads for the entire series were Bing Crosby and Bob Hope, but their usual leading lady Dorothy Lamour was considered too old for the role. Collins replaced Lamour. Collins started appearing frequently on television guest star roles. Among her most notable television roles was the villainous Siren in "Batman", and pacifist spokeswoman Edith Keeler in "Star Trek: The Original Series". "Road to ..." played in only one episode of Star Trek, the time-travel episode "The City on the Edge of Forever" (1967). However the episode is regarded among the best episodes in the entire Star Trek franchise, with Collins considered one of the most memorable guest stars in the original series. In 1970, Collins returned to her native United Kingdom. She started appearing frequently in British thriller and horror films of the decade. Among her films was revenge-themed drama "Revenge" (1971),science fiction film "Quest for Love" (1972), horror anthology "Tales from the Crypt" (1972), psychological horror "Fear in the Night" (1972), thriller "Dark Places", horror anthology "Tales That Witness Madness" (1973), and horror film "I Don't Want to Be Born" (1975). Collins appeared in a few comedies in-between horror films, but none was particularly successful. She returned to the United States in order to play a role in the giant monster film "Empire of the Ants" (1977). She then returned to mostly appearing in thriller roles. She was catapulted back to stardom with the lead role of nymphomaniac Fontaine Khaled in the erotic drama "The Stud" (1978), an adaptation of a novel written by her younger sister Jackie Collins. The film was a surprise box office hit, earning 20 million dollars at the worldwide box office. "Road to ..." returned to the role of Fontaine in the sequel film ''The Bitch'' (1979), which was also a hit. Collins found herself in high demand in both stage and film. But she gained more notoriety with the television role of Alexis Carington in "Dynasty". She started appearing in the role in the second season of the soap opera. Her performance is credited with the subsequent rise of the show's Nielsen's ratings. She became a household name, and received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1983. By 1985, "Dynasty" was the number-one show in the United States, beating out rival soap opera "Dallas". Collins was nominated six times for a Golden Globe Award for her role, winning once in 1983. She was also once nominated for an Emmy as Best Actress in a Drama Series. Collins was viewed as a sex symbol at the time, and in 1983 appeared in a 12-page photo layout for Playboy magazine. She was 50-years-old, unusually old for a Playboy model. Collins appeared in a total of 195 episodes of "Dynasty". The series was canceled with the last episode of its 9th season, due to falling ratings. New ABC entertainment president Bob Iger (1951-) is credited with ending the series as soon as possible. The show had a cliffhanger ending, and several of its subplots were not resolved. Collins returned to the role of Alexis in the sequel mini-series "Dynasty: The Reunion" (1991). The miniseries only lasted for 2 episodes, but resolved several subplots and was a ratings hit. Throughout the 1990s., Collins returned to guest star roles in television. She appeared in (among others) "Roseanne", "Egoli: Place of Gold", and "The Nanny", She had the recurring role of Christina Hobson in the short-lived soap opera "Pacific Palisades" (1997). She appeared in 7 of its 13 episodes. Her next notable soap opera role was that of so-called "rich bitch" Alexandra Spaulding in 2002 episodes of the long-running series "Guiding Light". Collins was the third actress to play this role. following Beverlee McKinsey and Marj Dusay. In film, Collins played Pearl Slaghoople, Wilma Flintstone's mother, in "The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas" (2000). It was the second live-action film based on the popular animated series "The Flintstones". In 2006, she toured the United Kingdom with "An Evening with Joan Collins", an one-woman show where she narrated the highs and lows of her career and life. She later toured the word with both this show and its sequel "Joan Collins Unscripted". Collins had a notable guest star-role as Ruth Van Rydock in the television film "Agatha Christie's Marple: They Do It with Mirrors" (2009). The film was an adaptation of the 1952 novel by Agatha Christie, where Ruth is an old school friend of Jane Marple, who assigned Jane to investigate a home for juvenile delinquents. Collins played herself in three episodes of the sitcom "Happily Divorced" (2011-2013). She had the recurring role of Crystal Hennessy-Vass in the sitcom "Benidorm" (2007-2018). She had another recurring role as Alexandra, Grand Duchess of Oxford in the soap opera "The Royals" (2015-2018). Collins had two different roles in the horror anthology series "American Horror Story". She played wealthy grandmother Evie Gallant, and witch Bubbles McGee. She appeared in a total of four episodes in 2018. By 2024, Collins was 90-years-old. She has never retired from acting, and she continues to appear in new roles.- Actress - Script and Continuity Department Cleo Moore was born Cleouna Moore on October 31, 1924 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, the daughter of a building contractor. Both her parents were deeply involved in Democratic politics which, in Louisiana, was an all consuming passion with a lot of families in the 1920s. Cleo began her trek to stardom when she participated in school plays in high school. When she was about 20 years old, Cleo wed Palmer Long, son of the late Huey "Kingfish" Long in 1944. Palmer's father had been one of the movers and shakers in Louisiana politics for years, first serving as governor and then the United States Senate. He was assassinated in 1935 in the state capitol building. The marriage was doomed to fail, having lasted a mere six weeks. After Cleo finished high school, she moved with her family to California where her father was anticipating the end of World War II and the building boom that was expected to follow. Once in sunny California, it did not take long to get "discovered". She was spotted by an RKO talent scout while attending a boxing fight at the Hollywood Legion Stadium and persuaded to take a screen test. She passed. Her first film was Congo Bill (1948). Then she went back to work at her family's building business and did some modeling. Two years later, in 1950, the shapely blonde appeared in a Western, Rio Grande Patrol (1950). She received fifth billing in the movie that went nowhere. That year proved very busy for Cleo as she appeared in five other films. In Bright Leaf (1950), a film about the tobacco industry, was a well-received one even though she had only a small part. Gambling House (1950) was somewhat of a personal breakthrough. Instead of having unknowns as her co-stars, Cleo had Victor Mature and William Bendix. Hard as it was to break into films, that one really grabbed the public's attention; she seemed destined to stay in B films. She appeared in On Dangerous Ground (1951) with Ida Lupino and Robert Ryan, but had only a minor part. For an actress who had a wonderful talent, she seemed to be picked because of how her physical attributes played on the screen. That seemed secondary to the moguls of the studios. She was very beautiful, but Cleo wanted them to look past that and see the talent she possessed. In 1954 (now under contract to Universal-International), she appeared in two more box-office bombs, The Other Woman (1954) and Bait (1954). The following year, she made two more films, Hold Back Tomorrow (1955) and Women's Prison (1955). Although second class movies, they fared well at the box-office because of the subject matter and Cleo. Other than that, they did not have a lot going for them. In 1957, Cleo starred in her final film, along with her sister, Mara Lea, Hit and Run (1957). She had star billing, but it was another box-office bomb. Cleo then left the motion picture industry forever. She married a real estate tycoon in 1961 and settled down to domesticity and the life of a Beverly Hills socialite. Her only child, a daughter, Debra, was born in 1963. Less than a week before her 49th birthday (October 25, 1973), Moore died of a heart attack in Inglewood, California. To her legions of fans, she remains their favorite sex symbol of the 1950s, and others languish knowing that her talent could have sent her to loftier heights instead of being wasted in minor roles in substandard B films.- Actress - Producer - Writer Alyssa Milano comes from an Italian-American family; her mother Lin Milano is a fashion designer and father Thomas Milano is a film music editor. Alyssa was born in a working-class neighborhood in Brooklyn and grew up in a modest house on Staten Island. One day her babysitter, who was an aspiring dancer, dragged Alyssa along to an open audition for the first national tour of "Annie". However, it was Alyssa and not the sitter who was chosen from 1500 other girls for the role. So at the tender age of seven, with her mother in tow, Alyssa joined the tour as July, one of the orphans. After 18 months on the road Alyssa, who had begun to garner a reputation as an energetic and charismatic young actress, left Annie to be featured in off-Broadway productions and television commercials. Then in 1983, at age 10, she landed her breakthrough role on the sitcom Who's the Boss? (1984) as Tony Danza's saccharine sweet daughter, "Samantha Micelli", a kid whose native Brooklyn accent rivaled her TV dad's. In order for Alyssa to accept the gig, the Milano family had to uproot and move 3,000 miles to Hollywood.- Actress - Producer - Additional Crew From the age of five, Linda Blair had to get used to the spotlight, first as a child model and then as an actress, when out of 600 applicants she was picked for the role of Regan, the possessed child, in The Exorcist (1973). Linda quickly rose to international fame, won the Golden Globe, and seemed to be set to take the Academy Award for that role, but when it leaked how some parts of the role were not performed by her (the demonic voice was dubbed by Mercedes McCambridge, and eight seconds of a stunt dummy were used) that dream broke, and with that disappointment probably came the first blow to what looked like the beginning of an A-list career. Over the next few years she had no trouble securing lead roles in a number of pictures, including the highly successful television films Born Innocent (1974) (the #1 TV movie of that year) and Sarah T. - Portrait of a Teenage Alcoholic (1975), as well as the Exorcist sequel Exorcist II: The Heretic (1977). However, when she was peer pressured into buying cocaine at the age of 18, it led to an arrest and subsequent sentencing to three years probation. The much-publicized drug bust caused Linda to be blacklisted in Hollywood, and her career was soon reduced to B-movies and occasional TV guest appearances only. Although her career never returned to its former glory, Linda proved to be a good sport about embracing the change, and out of the '80s emerged lead roles in two cult classics: the women-in-prison film Chained Heat (1983) and the femme fatale vigilante action film Savage Streets (1984). She continued acting in numerous films throughout the '80s and '90s, including the Exorcist spoof Repossessed (1990). In 1997, she also took to the Broadway stage and starred as "Rizzo" in the revival of "Grease." She received widespread mainstream attention again in the 2000's with the theatrical re-release of the Exorcist, followed by a hosting job on the hit Fox Family TV series Scariest Places on Earth (2000), which ran for six years and followed Linda as she visited notorious "haunted" locations around the world. Linda was born in St. Louis, Missouri, to Elinore, a real estate agent, and James, an executive headhunter. She has a brother, Jimmy, and a sister, Debbie. Linda has been a Hollywood icon for over 40 years, but it is her first love of animals that has ultimately taken center stage in her life. She now runs the Linda Blair WorldHeart Foundation, a non-profit 501C3 tax deductible organization dedicated to rescuing and rehabilitating abused, neglected, and abandoned animals from the harsh streets of the Los Angeles area, as well as from the overcrowded and overwhelmed city and county animal shelters. She works and lives on the 2-acre rescue sanctuary full-time in California, which was featured on The Today Show in a segment titled "From Devil to Angel." Of course, she also makes frequent appearances at horror fan conventions to celebrate the legacy of The Exorcist (1973) .- Actress - Producer - Executive Emmy Award-winning actress Jaime Pressly is known for her wide range of film and television roles. Pressly appeared in Welcome to Flatch (2022) from 2022 to 2023. Previously, she played Jill Kendall, opposite Anna Faris and Academy Award winner Allison Janney, on Chuck Lorre's hit CBS comedy Mom (2013). Before that, Pressly starred as Jennifer Doyle in TV Land's original sitcom Jennifer Falls (2014). The first-ever single camera comedy for TV Land, the show revolved around Jennifer, a former high-powered executive who had fallen from grace and hit every bump on the way down to rock bottom. Best known for her role as Joy Turner, on the hit show "My Name Is Earl," Pressly was nominated for her first Golden Globe and won the Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series in 2007. Additionally, Jaime was nominated for a SAG Actor Award in both 2006 and 2007, and an Emmy in 2006. She has previously starred the DreamWorks film "I Love You, Man" directed by John Hamburg, opposite Paul Rudd, Jason Segel and Jon Favreau. Other film credits include cult classics such as "Joe Dirt" with David Spade, "Not Another Teen Movie" with Chris Evans, and "Can't Hardly Wait," among others.- Actress - Producer - Writer Statuesque 5'7" blonde beauty Sybil Danning reigns supreme as one of the sexiest, most dynamic, and commanding actresses to achieve cult B-movie queen status. Born in Austria as daughter of US Army major and Austrian mother she grew up on army bases in New Jersey, Maryland and Sacramento, CA.. Sybil started as a model then film debut as the beautiful tragic Lorelei, German legend who threw herself into the Rhine River in despair over a faithless lover then transformed into a siren who lured fishermen to destruction. As Nibelungen princess Kriemhild, she turns she-devil revenges death of her love Siegfried by her brutal Burgundian King brothers. Sybil studied 3 years with noted German drama coach Anne-Marie Hanschke, multiple mainstream European and American movies followed. When offered lead in prestigious Francis Durbridge play for Germany, Switzerland, and Austria; she chose Hollywood instead. Sybil's (Raid on Entebbe) Oscar nominated Best Foreign Film OPERATION THUNDER BOLT, aka MIVTSA JONATAN with Klaus kinski was her calling card. It was her impressive performance as vivacious Valkyrie warrior "St Exmin" for which she won multiple awards, science-fiction cult movie BATTLE BEYOND THE STARS that introduced Sybil to young and old worldwide. A studio contracted Sybil to produce an action figure based on St Exmin with street date April 2021. Male & female fans love her rare beauty, sexiness, & toughness as tough prison inmate, formidable swanky swordfighter, wicked werewolf queen, cunning femme fatale English professor, Queen of the Moon, wicked warden, alien queen, loyal LAPD officer, brave bounty hunter, etc. Sybil has 2 comics, RUGER(TM) currently in discussion for an action TV series. Away for a while due to personal reasons, Tarantino and Rob Zombie brought her back in GRINDHOUSE as Nazi Villain and HALLOWEEN as nasty nurse! Sybil's back in action!- Actress - Additional Crew Betty May Adams was the daughter of a travelling Iowa cotton buyer with a penchant for alcohol. Growing up in Arkansas, Betty expressed an early interest in acting and made her performing debut in a third grade play of "Hansel and Gretel." Beautiful, talented and determined, the freshly minted 'Miss Little Rock' left home at the age of 19 to live with her aunt and uncle in California. For three days a week she made ends meet working as a secretary. The remainder of her time was spent taking speech and drama lessons (in due course losing her Southern twang) and making the rounds of the various Hollywood casting departments. Her first screen role was (appropriately) as a starlet in Paramount's Red, Hot and Blue (1949). This was followed by an inauspicious leading role in the B-grade Western The Dalton Gang (1949). Over a period of five weeks she appeared in six further quota quickies of the sagebrush variety for Poverty Row outfit Lippert Productions. Since Lippert owned no actual studio facilities, most of the filming took place at the Ray Corrigan ranch in Chatsworth, California. In the summer of 1950, Betty assisted in a screen test for Detroit Lions football star Leon Hart at Universal-International. While Hart's movie career ended up stillborn, Betty clicked with producers who opted to change her first name to 'Julia.' The initial outing for her new studio was entitled Bright Victory (1951), with the budding actress a little underemployed as 'the other girl' in a love triangle involving a blind war veteran (played by Arthur Kennedy). Her career was significantly better served in her next assignment as co-star opposite James Stewart in Anthony Mann's seminal Technicolor western Bend of the River (1952) (Kennedy this time cast as the arch villain). Adams later recalled her part in this film as "a great learning experience" and one of her "fondest Hollywood memories," It also led to a life long friendship with Jimmy Stewart. Signed to a seven-year contract (and having her legs insured by Universal to the tune of $125,000 by Lloyds of London), Julia seemed destined to remain perpetually typecast as a western heroine. A comely actress with soft, classical features, she often gave affecting performances in what amounted to little more than bread-and-butter pictures. At the very least, she got to play romantic leads opposite some of Universal's top box-office earners: Rock Hudson (in Horizons West (1952) and The Lawless Breed (1952)), Tyrone Power(The Mississippi Gambler (1953)) and Glenn Ford (The Man from the Alamo (1953)). Having played a succession of 'nice girls,' Julia took a turn as leader of an outlaw gang in Wings of the Hawk (1953), set against the background of the Mexican Revolution (Van Heflin was first-billed as a mining engineer, who, having his gold mine taken over by Federales, joins Julia's band of 'insurrectos'). 'Miss Melon Patch' of 1953 was about to experience another important career change, being famously cast as the imperilled heroine Kay Lawrence in Jack Arnolds cultish monster flic Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954), a role Adams initially considered turning down. Shot in 3-D on a shoestring budget, the picture was light on script but strong on atmosphere and proved once again that style can succeed over content. The not inconsiderable physical charms of Miss Adams often dominated the scenery and gave the 'Gill Man' a run for his money. Audiences approved and 'Creature' spawned two further sequels, alas without Julia and with diminishing returns. In 1955, having generated strong box office heat, Julia changed her moniker (with studio approval) to the less gentle-sounding Julie. Accordingly, she was now offered more varied material ranging from tough melodramas, to comedies and lightweight romances. Adams further established her credentials with roles which included a soft porn model who survives a plane crash in the Colorado Rockies in The Looters (1955); as a cop's wife in Six Bridges to Cross (1955) (a crime drama based on Boston's Great Brinks Robbery); a sympathetic school's doctor in the family-oriented comedy The Private War of Major Benson (1955) and as the wife of an assistant D.A. fighting gangland on the New York waterfront in Slaughter on 10th Avenue (1957). After 1957, her contract with Universal having expired, Adams successfully transitioned into television where she remained a firm favorite in westerns and crime dramas, guest-starring in just about every classic prime-time series covering both genres (Perry Mason (1957) being her personal favorite). Latterly, she had a popular recurring role as real estate lady Eve Simpson in Murder, She Wrote (1984). Adams was still in demand for occasional screen appearances well into her 90s. She was married twice: first, to writer-producer Leonard Stern, and, secondly, to the actor Ray Danton. Julie Adams passed away in Los Angeles on February 3, 2019 at the age of 92. Her autobiography (co-written with her son Mitchell Danton), entitled "The Lucky Southern Star: Reflections from the Black Lagoon" appeared in 2011.- Actress - Director - Writer A fascinating aura of mystery seemed to surround the characters portrayed by blue-eyed blonde actress Susan Oliver, whose trademark high cheekbones, rosebud lips and heart-shaped face kept audiences intrigued for nearly three decades. She left a fine legacy of work in theater, motion pictures and television. Born Charlotte Gercke on February 13, 1932 in New York City, she was the daughter of well-to-do George Gercke, a political reporter and journalist for the New York World, and his astrology practitioner wife, Ruth Oliver (aka Ruth Hale Oliver), both of whom divorced while Susan was still quite young (age 3). As a privileged adolescent, she went to various public and boarding schools. As a teenager, she lived with her father and traveled with him overseas to Japan, where he maintained a news post. While there (1948-49), she studied at the Tokyo International College and developed an interest in Japan's deep obsession with the American popular culture. Much later in her career (1977), in fact, Susan would write and direct Cowboysan (1978), a short film which told of Japanese actors performing in an American western. In the spring of 1949, Susan briefly rejoined her mother, who was now remarried, residing in Los Angeles, and gaining a solid reputation as Hollywood's astrologer to the stars. However, by that fall, Susan was back East, studying drama at Pennsylvania's Swarthmore College (for four years). She then continued her training at New York City's Neighborhood Playhouse, while finding stage work in both summer stock and regional theaters. Commercials and daytime/prime-time television work started coming Susan's way and, by that time, she had already changed her stage moniker to the more flowing name of Susan Oliver. The year 1957 began with a debut ingénue role as a Revolutionary War-era daughter in the Broadway comedy "Small War on Murray Hill", which opened and closed at the Ethel Barrymore Theater after only nine days. A far more potent and substantial role fell her way in October of that same year, when she replaced British actress Mary Ure as Allison Porter in the superior kitchen sink drama "Look Back in Anger". Susan continued to find extensive dramatic work in live East coast television plays, with roles on The Kaiser Aluminum Hour (1956), The United States Steel Hour (1953), Studio 57 (1954) and Matinee Theatre (1955). At this juncture, she decided to migrate back to Los Angeles for more on-camera opportunities and attained guest roles on such popular prime-time series as Wagon Train (1957), Father Knows Best (1954), The Millionaire (1955) and The Lineup (1954). Susan made her cinematic debut as the tough yet doomed title role in Warner Bros.' low-budget melodrama The Green-Eyed Blonde (1957). The film was shot in black and white, so it didn't matter that Susan's eyes were blue. Topbilled, she played the rebellious delinquent leader at a girls' reformatory and lent class to the rather exploitative material, which was written by blacklisted writer Dalton Trumbo. Two years later, Susan returned to the big screen as another tough cookie in the better-received biopic The Gene Krupa Story (1959), as a jazz singer who lures the renowned drummer (played by Sal Mineo) down the road to drugs and near ruin. A brief return to the Broadway stage, with the comedy "Patate" starring Tom Ewell and Lee Bowman, would last only four days but Susan earned great notices and won New York's Theatre World Award World for her outstanding breakout performance. On early 1960s television, Susan continued to offer a number of striking and often showy, neurotic performances on episodes of Bonanza (1959), Wanted: Dead or Alive (1958), 77 Sunset Strip (1958), Wagon Train (1957), The Virginian (1962), Adventures in Paradise (1959), Route 66 (1960), Dr. Kildare (1961) and The Fugitive (1963). Filmwise, she found a few lead and support roles in the Elizabeth Taylor-starred BUtterfield 8 (1960); as a psychiatric nurse in the all-star hospital melodrama The Caretakers (1963); in the tailored-for-the-teens romp, Looking for Love (1964), as a friend to Connie Francis; and in the hilarious Jerry Lewis slapstick vehicle The Disorderly Orderly (1964), in which she added rather heavy drama as a depressed hospital patient. During this time, her most challenging role was as the ambitious wife of doomed country music legend Hank Williams (George Hamilton, in offbeat casting) in Your Cheatin' Heart (1964). Susan's name remained active particularly on television, where she graced such series as The Andy Griffith Show (1960), The Travels of Jaimie McPheeters (1963), Burke's Law (1963), Dr. Kildare (1961), Ben Casey (1961), Gomer Pyle: USMC (1964), My Three Sons (1960), The Invaders (1967) and Mannix (1967). Classic television showcases includes the episode, People Are Alike All Over (1960), in which she plays the beautiful martian Teenya, who encounters astronaut Roddy McDowall, and the unsold pilot episode The Cage (1966), as Vina, the sole survivor of a crashed spaceship who charms Captain Christopher Pike (Jeffrey Hunter, the captain subsequently replaced by William Shatner as Captain James T. Kirk, when the show became a series). Footage from that pilot was later incorporated into the two-part episode "The Menagerie". In 1966, Susan made bittersweet news, when her regular role as Ann Howard in the prime-time soap opera Peyton Place (1964), was pushed off a cliff to her death. Written out after only five months of a year-long planned role, audiences (as well as Susan) were saddened by the loss of a character they had grown to care about. Subsequently, Susan starred in her own pilot for a new series, "Apartment in Rome", but that didn't sell. Unfortunately, Susan's late 1960s work in a variety of film genres and opposite a number of formidable leading men were ultimately too few and did not help to advance her career. These included the LSD-induced drama The Love-Ins (1967) with Richard Todd and James MacArthur; the western A Man Called Gannon (1968) starring Anthony Franciosa; and the sci-fiers Change of Mind (1969) with Raymond St. Jacques and The Monitors (1969) with Guy Stockwell. The 1970s also hardly fared better with standard roles in Ginger in the Morning (1974) (donning a black wig), the Spanish-made drama Nido de viudas (1977), and Hardly Working (1980), in which she reunited with Jerry Lewis in what was supposed to be his comeback attempt. That film was ultimately shelved, before earning scant release a couple of years later. Susan appeared as a regular for one season (1975-76) on Days of Our Lives (1965) and received a "Supporting Actress" Emmy nomination for the made-for-TV movie Amelia Earhart (1976), playing aviatrix Neta "Snookie" Snook, friend and mentor to the title character, played by Emmy-nominated Susan Clark. The role of "Snookie" was tailor-made for Susan, who, by this time, had merited attention as a licensed commercial pilot. Susan's passion for flying had been compromised a decade earlier after a dramatic 1966 commercial plane scare. The near-death experience kept the actress on solid ground for well over a year, before she managed to overcome her paralyzing fear. In 1970, fully recovered, she co-piloted a single-engine Piper Comanche to victory in the Powder Puff Derby racing event, a victory that earned her the name, "Pilot of the Year". [Amelia Mary Earhart was the first female pilot to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean]. However, in her attempt to fly to Moscow, the Soviet government denied her entrance to their air space and she was forced to end her journey in Denmark. Susan would later write about her flying exploits in her autobiography "Odyssey: A Daring Transatlantic Journey" (1983). Susan's last years were focused on the small screen, with roles in the made-for-TV movies Tomorrow's Child (1982) and International Airport (1985), and standard guest-starring on The Love Boat (1977), Murder, She Wrote (1984), Simon & Simon (1981) and Freddy's Nightmares (1988). She also moved behind the camera a few times, directing episodes of M*A*S*H (1972) and Trapper John, M.D. (1979). A longtime smoker, the never-married Susan was diagnosed with lung cancer and died with quiet dignity at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, California at age 58 -- an untimely death for such a beautiful lady and strong talent.- Actress - Producer - Soundtrack Emmanuelle Vaugier is a Canadian actress and model. She began acting in grade school, after she was cast as an understudy in a play and had to fill in when the lead actor became ill. She modeled in Japan for three years. She made her acting debut in the 1995 made-for-TV movie drama, A Family Divided. She took up horseback riding in 2010; entered a Burbank, CA, horse show in which she placed third. She is involved with animal protection organizations including JIMI'S Angels and Best Friends Animal Society; she created Fluff-ball, an animal fundraiser event, to provide monetary support for the groups.- Actress - Writer - Soundtrack Martha Hyer was born on August 10, 1924 in Fort Worth, Texas. Once she finished her formal schooling, Martha played a bit role in 1946's The Locket (1946). Slowly, Martha began picking up roles with more and more substance. The best years for the beautiful actress began in 1954 when she played in films such as Down Three Dark Streets (1954), Showdown at Abilene (1956) and Battle Hymn (1957). Perhaps the best role of her long career was as "Gwen French" in 1958's Some Came Running (1958) in which she starred opposite Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin and Shirley MacLaine. As a result of her stellar role, Martha received an Academy Award nomination as Best Supporting Actress, but she lost out to Wendy Hiller in Separate Tables (1958). Afterwards, Martha's stint on the US silver screen's trailed off some. She did make a handful of foreign films, returning to appear in the US from time to time, but nothing compared to the pace she had in the fifties. Her last film was in 1973 in the film The Day of the Wolves (1971). In 1966, she married producer Hal B. Wallis and remained with him until his death in 1986.- Actress - Producer - Director Shannen Doherty was born in Memphis, Tennessee, USA, on April 12, 1971, to Rosa Doherty (Wright) and Tom Doherty. Her father worked in a bank, while her mother owned a beauty parlor. She has an older brother, Sean B. Doherty. Her ancestry includes Irish, English, Scottish and French. In 1978, at the tender age of seven, she and her family moved to Los Angeles, where her father started a West Coast branch of the family transportation business. She knew she wanted to pursue an acting career when she made her acting debut at age ten, with a role on the series Father Murphy (1981). Shannen was a confident student, involving herself in school performances and working hard in school, making sure she always had exceptional grades. Despite her confidence she isolated herself from large crowds and preferred to few close friends. She made a name for herself as a child actress at just 11-years-old, starring in Little House on the Prairie (1974) as Jenny Wilder. It was Michael Landon who noticed her performance in an episode of Father Murphy (1981) that he decided to cast her. She then went on to appear in Our House (1986) with Deidre Hall and Wilford Brimley. She also starred alongside Sarah Jessica Parker and Helen Hunt in Girls Just Want to Have Fun (1985) and then in Heathers (1989), a teen comedy also starring Winona Ryder. Her real success came in 1990, at the age of 19, when she was cast in Aaron Spelling's long-running hit series, Beverly Hills, 90210 (1990) as Brenda Walsh, the twin sister of Brandon Walsh, played by Jason Priestley. She attracted media attention from the press and eventually made her a household name. The success of the popular teen drama appealed to young teenage girls who could relate to her character. After four years she left the show in 1994. Afterward, she continued her work in movies, starring in the thriller Almost Dead (1994) and the comedy Mallrats (1995). During the fall of 1998, she reunited with long-time producer Aaron Spelling, when she was cast as Prue Halliwell on Charmed (1998), a show about three ordinary women who happen to be witches. She starred alongside Alyssa Milano and Holly Marie Combs. After three years she left the show to find work in movies. Before her departure from the show she directed three of the last episodes in which she starred. She continued her work in movies by starring in Another Day (2001), The Rendering (2002), Hell on Heels: The Battle of Mary Kay (2002), and View of Terror (2003). In 2003, she hosted season one of Scare Tactics (2003) as well as season two with only 8 episodes and then left to pursue other endeavors. In the fall of 2004, Shannen made her return to television on Fox's drama series North Shore (2004), where she played Alexandra Hudson, the long-lost sister of Nicole Booth, played by Brooke Burns. The show was canceled after one season. Then in 2005 she landed the role of Denise Johnson on the UPN series Love, Inc. (2005); however, after the pilot episode she was dropped from the sitcom. From there she has ventured into new projects and in 2006 she starred in her own reality series, Breaking Up with Shannen Doherty (2006).- Actress - Soundtrack An American television actress, Lynda Day George first drew attention when she appeared in the popular TV series Mission: Impossible (1966) as Lisa Casey, a role for which she received a Golden Globe nomination. She also did numerous guest-star roles in such series as The Love Boat (1977) and Wonder Woman (1975). While appearing in the feature The Gentle Rain (1966), she met Christopher George, the handsome lead actor of the popular war series The Rat Patrol (1966); they fell in love about three years later, when they were reunited in the John Wayne western Chisum (1970), and they were married after its release. During the 1970s, Lynda appeared in numerous films with her husband. In 1983, she and Chris co-starred in the horror film Mortuary (1982). Sadly, after its completion, Christopher George died of a heart attack, at age 54. Lynda was devastated and felt that she couldn't act without him. She appeared in another film shortly after his death, called Young Warriors (1983), but after appearing as a guest star in a few TV series, Lynda gave up acting.- Actress - Producer The most beautiful star of the greatest horror masterpiece of Italian film, Black Sunday (1960): Barbara Steele was born on December 29, 1937 in Birkenhead, Cheshire, England. Barbara is loved by her fans for her talent, intelligence, and a dark mysterious beauty that is unique; her face epitomizes either sweet innocence, or malign evil (she is wonderful to watch either way). At first, Barbara studied to become a painter. In 1957, she joined an acting repertory company. Her feature acting debut was in the British comedy Bachelor of Hearts (1958). At age 21, this strikingly lovely lady, with the hauntingly beautiful face, large eyes, sensuous lips and long dark hair got her breakout role by starring in Black Sunday (1960), the quintessential Italian film about witchcraft (it was the directorial debut for cinematographer Mario Bava; with his background, it was exquisitely photographed and atmospheric). We got to see Barbara, but did not hear her; her voice was dubbed by another actress for international audiences. After its American success, AIP brought Barbara to America, to star in Roger Corman's The Pit and the Pendulum (1961); (though the film was shot entirely in English, again Barbara's own voice was not used). By now, Barbara was typecast by American audiences as a horror star. In 1962, she answered an open-casting call and won a role in Federico Fellini's 8½ (1963); she only had a small role, but it was memorable. Reportedly, Fellini wanted to use her more in the film, but she was contracted to leave Rome to start work on her next horror movie, The Horrible Dr. Hichcock (1962). Being a slow and meticulous director, Fellini's 8½ (1963) was not released until 1963. (Later, when Barbara was cast in lesser roles in lesser movies, she would tell the directors: "I've worked with some of the best directors in the world. I've worked with Fellini!") More horror movies followed, such as The Ghost (1963), Castle of Blood (1964), An Angel for Satan (1966) and others; this success lead to her being typecast in the horror genre, where she more often than not appeared in Italian movies with a dubbed voice. The nadir was appearing in The Crimson Cult (1968), which was mainly eye candy, with scantily-clad women in a cult. Unfortunately, Barbara got sick of being typecast in horror movies. One of the screen's greatest horror stars, she said in an interview: "I never want to climb out of another freakin' coffin again!" This was sad news for her legion of horror fans; it was also a false-step for Barbara as far as a career move. Back in America, she met screenwriter James Poe; they got married, and remained together for many years. James Poe wrote an excellent role for Barbara in They Shoot Horses, Don't They? (1969). The role ended up going to Susannah York, and Barbara wouldn't act in movies again for five years. Barbara returned to movies in Caged Heat (1974); she was miscast: a few years before, Barbara would have been one of the beautiful inmates, not the wheelchair-bound warden, but her performance won positive reviews. In 1977, she appeared in a film by Roger Corman, based on the true story of a mentally ill woman, I Never Promised You a Rose Garden (1977). Unfortunately, her scenes wound up on the cutting room floor. Barbara appeared in Pretty Baby (1978), but she was in the background the whole time, and her talents were mostly wasted. Barbara would appear in two more unmemorable movies. She and James Poe got divorced in 1978, he died two years later. Barbara appeared in the independent film The Silent Scream (1979). Maybe because her ex-husband was now dead, or because her acting career was going nowhere, Barbara retired from acting for a decade. However, she had a great deal of success as a producer. She was an associate producer for the miniseries The Winds of War (1983), and produced War and Remembrance (1988), for which she got an Emmy Award. Her horror fans were delighted when Barbara showed up again, this time on television in Dark Shadows (1991), a revival of the beloved 1960s supernatural soap opera. And she has developed a relative fondness along with a sense of ironic humor about her horror queen status, which was evident in her appearance in Clive Barker's documentary A-Z of Horror (1997).- Actress - Soundtrack The beautiful Ann Corio appeared in a less than a handful of poverty row exotic films, but her real stardom was on the stage, over a period of twenty years. She was a hugely popular striptease artist, best known for her work at Minsky's Burlesk Theater in New York. In 1940, she was making around $1,000 a week for her work, plus a contractual 25% intake of house receipts. Corio suggested once that the art of the striptease should be rechristened "deciduous kinesthetics."- Actress - Soundtrack Barbara Hale was born on April 18, 1922 in DeKalb, Illinois, to Wilma (née Colvin) and Luther Ezra Hale, a landscape gardener. She had one sister, Juanita. As a young girl, she intended to major in art and drawing but to work her way through The Chicago Academy of Fine Arts, she began her professional career as a model for a comic strip called "Ramblin' Bill." Hale is best remembered as Della Street, long-time secretary to attorney Perry Mason on the TV series Perry Mason (1957) from 1957 to 1966 and again in over 25 Perry Mason TV movies from 1985 to 1995. She married actor Bill Williams in 1946. He was best remembered for his portrayal of Kit Carson in The Adventures of Kit Carson (1951) from 1951 to 1955. The couple had three children - two daughters: Jody (born in 1947), Juanita (born in 1953), and, in 1951, a son, William Katt (the spitting image of his father), and actor in his own right, probably best known as the titular character's ill-fated prom date in the film Carrie (1976) and, later, as Ralph Hinkley, the klutzy superhero on the quirky 1980s adventure series The Greatest American Hero (1981) (from 1981 to 1986).
