=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Briana Scurry - Wikipedia]
Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3, 2017. She was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. [2][3][4] She is openly gay, and on June 1, 2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Briana_Scurry

[Former Washington Freedom player Briana Scurry elected to National ...]
Aug 3, 2017 · Boyds, MD (August 3, 2017) – Former Washington Freedom and U.S. Women’s National Team goalkeeper Briana Scurry has been elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame Class of 2017, U.S. Soccer announced today. Scurry, who played for the Freedom from 2009-2010, is a two-time Olympic gold medalist and one-time FIFA Women’s World Cup champion goalkeeper. Her career total of 173 international ...
URL: https://washingtonspirit.com/blog/2017/08/03/former-washington-freedom-player-briana-scurry-elected-to-national-soccer-hall-of-fame/

[Briana Scurry Named To National Soccer Hall Of Fame]
Aug 4, 2017 · UMass, U.S. National Team legend becomes first female keeper in hall of fame. AMHERST, Mass. - One of the most known players in United States women's soccer history, University of Massachusetts alumna Briana Scurry was elected into the National Soccer Hall of Fame announced Thursday evening.
URL: https://umassathletics.com/news/2017/8/4/womens-soccer-briana-scurry-named-to-national-soccer-hall-of-fame

[35 Facts About Briana Scurry - FactSnippet]
2. Briana Scurry played in the semi-final and playoff for third place in the 2007 Women's World Cup. 3. Briana Scurry was a founding member of the WUSA, playing three seasons as starting goalkeeper for the Atlanta Beat. 4. Briana Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3,2017.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-briana-scurry.html

[Briana Scurry and Dr. Joe Machnick Elected to National Soccer Hall of ...]
Aug 3, 2017 · CHICAGO (Aug. 3, 2017) - Briana Scurry and Dr. Joe Machnik have been elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame Class of 2017. Scurry was selected on the Player Ballot and Machnik on the Builder ...
URL: https://www.oursportscentral.com/services/releases/briana-scurry-and-dr-joe-machnick-elected-to-national-soccer-hall-of-fame-class-of-2017/n-5274011


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Briana Scurry - Wikipedia] ---
Briana Collette Scurry (born September 7, 1971) is an American retired soccer goalkeeper. Scurry was the starting goalkeeper for the United States women's national soccer team at the 1995 World Cup (3rd place), 1996 Summer Olympics (gold medal), 1999 World Cup (champions), 2003 World Cup (3rd place), and the 2004 Summer Olympic Games (gold medal). She played in the semi-final and playoff for third place in the 2007 Women's World Cup (3rd place). She was a founding member of the WUSA, playing three seasons as starting goalkeeper for the Atlanta Beat (2001–2003).
Her career total of 173 international appearances is the second most among female soccer goalkeepers. It is also the fifteenth most of any American female player, and the thirty-second most among all women.
Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3, 2017. She was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. She is openly gay, and on June 1, 2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC.
In 2022, Scurry released her best-selling memoir, My Greatest Save. Scurry was also the subject of The Only, a CBS feature-length documentary chronicling her life that was released in 2022.


--- [Former Washington Freedom player Briana Scurry elected to National ...] ---
No content


--- [Briana Scurry Named To National Soccer Hall Of Fame] ---
University of Massachusets Athletics Briana Scurry Named To National Soccer Hall Of Fame August 04, 2017 | Women's Soccer UMass, U.S. National Team legend becomes first female keeper in hall of fame. AMHERST, Mass. - One of the most known players in United States women's soccer history, University of Massachusetts alumna Briana Scurry was elected into the National Soccer Hall of Fame announced Thursday evening. Scurry, who played for UMass from 1990-93, becomes the first female goalkeeper to be elected into the sports Hall of Fame. "It's a fantastic honor to be inducted to the Hall of Fame. I remember watching the Olympics on the couch with my parents at 8 years old, dreaming of becoming an Olympian myself. It was with their help – and that of my coaches, teammates, and countless others – that I was blessed to not only become an Olympian, but an Olympic and World Cup champion," Scurry said. "Soccer had already given me so much more than I could possibly give back. Now, to be inducted alongside the likes of Michelle Akers, Mia Hamm, and Kristine Lilly – I am truly humbled. And though my mother and father have passed, I can feel their pride swell. Thank you for letting me play for you, and thank you all for this incredible honor." Scurry donned the No. 1 jersey for the Minutewomen in the early 1990s before going on to a storied U.S. National Team career, which included Olympic Gold Medals in 1996 and 2004 and a Silver Medal in 2000. In her career, she made a total of 173 international appearances which are the most among female soccer goalkeepers and the 10th most among any American female player. The Dayton, Minn., native backstopped UMass to a NCAA Final Four appearance and the program's first Atlantic 10 title as a senior in 1993 en route to Missouri Athletic Club/adidas Goalkeeper of the Year, All-America and Atlantic 10 Player of the Year honors. The squad also made NCAA appearances in her two previous seasons in Amherst, reaching the quarterfinal round in 1992. Over four seasons at UMass, Scurry posted a 0.56 goals-against average in 6,073 career minutes, spanning 65 career games with 37 shutouts and a .906 save percentage. The goalkeeper played professionally for the Atlanta Beat (2001-03) and the Washington Freedom (2009-10). She was an All-WUSA selection four times and named the WUSA Goalkeeper of the Year in 2003. That same year she was inducted into the UMass Athletic Hall of Fame. Scurry is one of the most prolific and successful goalkeepers in U.S. Women's National Team history. She played every minute in goal for the USA at three Women's World Cups and two Olympic Games, suffering only two losses in those tournaments. She is perhaps best known for her phenomenal performance at the 1999 Women's World Cup where she made several world class saves in the semifinal victory against Brazil at Stanford Stadium in Palo Alto, Calif., setting the stage for one of the most historic matches in women's soccer history. During the 1999 Women's World Cup Final at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California, and in front of the largest crowd to ever watch a women's sporting event, Scurry helped shut out China for 120 minutes before stopped the Steel Roses' third penalty kick attempt in the dramatic shootout, allowing final U.S. shooter Brandi Chastain to clinch the championship. Scurry also shepherded the U.S. WNT to two Olympic gold medals during an eleven-year run as the team's top goalkeeper. Since retirement, Scurry has become an advocate for concussion and traumatic brain injury awareness. She has testified to Congress twice as part of committees on brain injury and sport safety. Scurry has also spent time in the broadcast booth for women's soccer and as a motivational speaker. In her playing days, Scurry was a founding member of the Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA), the first U.S. women's league to pay players as professionals. She finished her international career with 175 caps and 72 shutouts. For complete coverage of the UMass women's soccer program, follow the Minutewomen at @UMassWSoccer on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. "It's a fantastic honor to be inducted to the Hall of Fame. I remember watching the Olympics on the couch with my parents at 8 years old, dreaming of becoming an Olympian myself. It was with their help – and that of my coaches, teammates, and countless others – that I was blessed to not only become an Olympian, but an Olympic and World Cup champion," Scurry said. "Soccer had already given me so much more than I could possibly give back. Now, to be inducted alongside the likes of Michelle Akers, Mia Hamm, and Kristine Lilly – I am truly humbled. And though my mother and father have passed, I can feel their pride swell. Thank you for letting me play for you, and thank you all for this incredible honor." Scurry donned the No. 1 jersey for the Minutewomen in the early 1990s before going on to a storied U.S. National Team career, which included Olympic Gold Medals in 1996 and 2004 and a Silver Medal in 2000. In her career, she made a total of 173 international appearances which are the most among female soccer goalkeepers and the 10th most among any American female player. The Dayton, Minn., native backstopped UMass to a NCAA Final Four appearance and the program's first Atlantic 10 title as a senior in 1993 en route to Missouri Athletic Club/adidas Goalkeeper of the Year, All-America and Atlantic 10 Player of the Year honors. The squad also made NCAA appearances in her two previous seasons in Amherst, reaching the quarterfinal round in 1992. Over four seasons at UMass, Scurry posted a 0.56 goals-against average in 6,073 career minutes, spanning 65 career games with 37 shutouts and a .906 save percentage. The goalkeeper played professionally for the Atlanta Beat (2001-03) and the Washington Freedom (2009-10). She was an All-WUSA selection four times and named the WUSA Goalkeeper of the Year in 2003. That same year she was inducted into the UMass Athletic Hall of Fame. Scurry is one of the most prolific and successful goalkeepers in U.S. Women's National Team history. She played every minute in goal for the USA at three Women's World Cups and two Olympic Games, suffering only two losses in those tournaments. She is perhaps best known for her phenomenal performance at the 1999 Women's World Cup where she made several world class saves in the semifinal victory against Brazil at Stanford Stadium in Palo Alto, Calif., setting the stage for one of the most historic matches in women's soccer history. During the 1999 Women's World Cup Final at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California, and in front of the largest crowd to ever watch a women's sporting event, Scurry helped shut out China for 120 minutes before stopped the Steel Roses' third penalty kick attempt in the dramatic shootout, allowing final U.S. shooter Brandi Chastain to clinch the championship. Scurry also shepherded the U.S. WNT to two Olympic gold medals during an eleven-year run as the team's top goalkeeper. Since retirement, Scurry has become an advocate for concussion and traumatic brain injury awareness. She has testified to Congress twice as part of committees on brain injury and sport safety. Scurry has also spent time in the broadcast booth for women's soccer and as a motivational speaker. In her playing days, Scurry was a founding member of the Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA), the first U.S. women's league to pay players as professionals. She finished her international career with 175 caps and 72 shutouts. For complete coverage of the UMass women's soccer program, follow the Minutewomen at @UMassWSoccer on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. UMass WSOC | Broadcast Highlights vs Buffalo | 10.09.25 Thursday, October 09 UMass WSOC vs. Northern Illinois | 9.28.25 Sunday, September 28 UMass WSOC | Broadcast Highlights vs Harvard | 08.24.25 Sunday, August 24 UMass WSOC vs. St. John's | 8.14.25 | Highlights Friday, August 15


--- [35 Facts About Briana Scurry - FactSnippet] ---
Briana Collette Scurry was born on September 7,1971 and is an American retired soccer goalkeeper. 35 Facts About Briana Scurry Briana Scurry played in the semi-final and playoff for third place in the 2007 Women's World Cup. Briana Scurry was a founding member of the WUSA, playing three seasons as starting goalkeeper for the Atlanta Beat. Briana Scurry was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame on August 3,2017. Briana Scurry was the first woman goalkeeper and first black woman to be awarded the honor. Briana Scurry is openly gay, and on June 1,2018, she married Chryssa Zizos, CEO of Live Wire Strategic Communications, LLC. In 2022, Briana Scurry released her best-selling memoir, My Greatest Save. Briana Scurry was the subject of The Only, a CBS feature-length documentary chronicling her life that was released in 2022. Briana Scurry was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota to parents, Ernest and Robbie Briana Scurry. Briana Scurry is the youngest of nine children, with three brothers and five sisters. Briana Scurry played goalie for the Anoka High School Tornadoes for four years and was instrumental in their Minnesota State Championship win in 1989 which ended in a shootout victory. In high school, Briana Scurry ran track and played floor hockey and softball, but basketball was her first and deepest love. Briana Scurry was named Anoka High School's Athena Award winner as the school's top female athlete. Briana Scurry was named High School All American and Minnesota's top female athlete. In September 2011, Briana Scurry was named to the inaugural class of the Anoka High School Hall of Fame. Briana Scurry was named the National Goalkeeper of the Year in 1993 by the Missouri Athletic Club Sports Foundation and was a 1993 second-team All-American, All-Northeast Region and All-New England first-team selection. Briana Scurry was a founding player for the Atlanta Beat in the Women's United Soccer Association, the world's first women's league where the players were paid as professionals. Briana Scurry was the starting goalkeeper for the three seasons of the league. Briana Scurry helped the Beat to two WUSA Championship Games and was named the league's Goalkeeper of the Year in 2003. On March 13,2009, Briana Scurry was named to the preseason roster of the Washington Freedom, in the inaugural season of Women's Professional Soccer. Briana Scurry suffered a season-ending concussion early in the 2010 season, and announced her retirement later that year on September 8. Briana Scurry was a goalkeeper for the United States women's national soccer team for most of the years between 1994 and 2008, earning a record 173 caps for the United States. Briana Scurry was a member of the Gold Medal-winning US Women's National Team at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta where she started and played in every minute of the team's five matches conceding only three goals. Briana Scurry played every minute of the 1999 Women's World Cup allowing only three goals and recording four shutouts. Briana Scurry saved one penalty during the shootout in the final against China and the United States won. Briana Scurry started for the US in the 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup and 2004 Summer Olympic Games. Briana Scurry played two matches for the US in the 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup and was the alternate goalkeeper on the 2008 Olympic Team. Briana Scurry has since rebuilt her life and become an advocate for increased concussion awareness and research, testifying before Congress twice. Briana Scurry was appointed general manager of the WPS franchise magicJack beginning with the 2011 season. In February 2021, The Washington Post reported that Chelsea Clinton, Jenna Bush Hager, Dominique Dawes and Briana Scurry were part of an investment group investing in the Washington Spirit. Briana Scurry was part of the rotation of studio commentators for ESPN's telecasts of the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup. Since 2021, Briana Scurry has served as a broadcast analyst for CBS soccer coverage. On December 6,2017, Briana Scurry was announced as the First Assistant Coach of the Washington Spirit and would serve as Technical Advisor for the Spirit Academy programs in Maryland and Virginia. Briana Scurry appeared as a fictionalized version of herself in the 2000 film Air Bud: World Pup. Briana Scurry was the subject of the 2022 Paramount Plus documentary The Only, which was directed by Anthony J Cortese and featured interviews with other USWNT players such as Mia Hamm, Brandi Chastain, Kristine Lilly, and Abby Wambach.


--- [Briana Scurry and Dr. Joe Machnick Elected to National Soccer Hall of ...] ---
Briana Scurry and Dr. Joe Machnick Elected to National Soccer Hall of Fame Class of 2017 Published on August 3, 2017 under National Women's Soccer League (NWSL) Chicago Stars FC News Release CHICAGO (Aug. 3, 2017) - Briana Scurry and Dr. Joe Machnik have been elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame Class of 2017. Scurry was selected on the Player Ballot and Machnik on the Builder Ballot. Details about the induction ceremony will be released at a later date. Scurry is one of the most prolific and successful goalkeepers in U.S. Women's National Team history. She played every minute in goal for the USA at three Women's World Cups and two Olympic Games, suffering only two losses in those tournaments. She is perhaps best known for her phenomenal performance at the 1999 Women's World Cup where she made several world class saves in the semifinal victory against Brazil at Stanford Stadium in Palo Alto, Calif., setting the stage for one of the most historic matches in women's soccer history. During the 1999 Women's World Cup Final at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California, and in front of the largest crowd to ever watch a women's sporting event, Scurry helped shut out China for 120 minutes before stopped the Steel Roses' third penalty kick attempt in the dramatic shootout, allowing final U.S. shooter Brandi Chastain to clinch the championship. Scurry also shepherded the U.S. WNT to two Olympic gold medals during an eleven-year run as the team's top goalkeeper. "It's a fantastic honor to be inducted to the Hall of Fame. I remember watching the Olympics on the couch with my parents at 8 years old, dreaming of becoming an Olympian myself. It was with their help - and that of my coaches, teammates, and countless others - that I was blessed to not only become an Olympian, but an Olympic and World Cup champion," Scurry said. "Soccer had already given me so much more than I could possibly give back. Now, to be inducted alongside the likes of Michelle Akers, Mia Hamm, and Kristine Lilly - I am truly humbled. And though my mother and father have passed, I can feel their pride swell. Thank you for letting me play for you, and thank you all for this incredible honor." Since retirement, Scurry has become an advocate for concussion and traumatic brain injury awareness. She has testified to Congress twice as part of committees on brain injury and sport safety. Scurry has also spent time in the broadcast booth for women's soccer and as a motivational speaker. In her playing days, Scurry was a founding member of the Women's United Soccer Association (WUSA), the first U.S. women's league to pay players as professionals. She finished her international career with 173 caps and 72 shutouts. Machnik has been involved with soccer in the United States in almost every way; as a player, coach, referee, instructor, match commissioner and now as a broadcaster for FOX Sports. He has been called "American soccer's renaissance man." In 1990, Machnik was on the sidelines with head coach Bob Gansler as an assistant coach when the U.S. Men's National Team reached its first World Cup in 40 years. He has served as head of referees for three professional soccer leagues, including 15 years of involvement with Major League Soccer. Machnik also spent time as a match commissioner for FIFA and CONCACAF, overseeing World Cup qualifiers and CONCACAF Champions League matches. He's now FOX Sports' Soccer Rules Analyst for events like the World Cup, UEFA Champions League and Copa America. "Induction into the National Soccer Hall of Fame is the ultimate award in American soccer. To be recognized as a Builder of the sport that has captivated the passion of our country and has provided playing opportunities for millions of boys and girls and men and women is, indeed, an honor," Machnik said. "I want to thank my teammates, the players I coached and officiated, the coaches and campers I taught, the referees I managed, my colleagues and friends in many soccer related projects and the broadcasters I now work with, who have made every moment in a sixty-year career, a joy. Most of all, I would like to thank the extraordinary leaders who mentored my journey and my family who supported every step in what has been a charmed life in the sport that I love. I would like to thank all those who saw fit to honor my life in this way." Machnik's life in soccer started as a goalkeeper at Long Island University-Brooklyn, where he earned All-American honors in 1962. Just four years later at the age of 23, Machnik was named head coach of the program and led the Blackbirds to the national championship game. After leaving LIU-Brooklyn, Machnik began an illustrious 30-year career at the University of New Haven, spending time as head coach of men's and women's soccer, men's ice hockey and as the Chargers' athletic director, a role in which he oversaw the introduction of women's sports at UNH. Since 1977, Machnik has run No. 1 Soccer Camps, a program that has helped develop over 80,000 young players and seen its alumni play professionally and with the National Team. Briana Scurry Bio: Scurry played for the U.S. WNT from 1994-2008, anchoring teams that won a World Cup title and two Olympic gold medals. The team's first choice goalkeeper for eleven years, she was Player of the Match in the 1999 Women's World Cup Final, perhaps the most memorable women's sporting event of all time. At the time of her retirement in 2010, Scurry was by far the most decorated goalkeeper in WNT history with 175 caps and 72 career shutouts. Professionally, she was a founding player in the Women's United Soccer Association with the Atlanta Beat. Now, Scurry is a powerful advocate for concussion/traumatic brain injury awareness and a motivational speaker. National Women's Soccer League Stories from August 3, 2017 - FC Kansas City Travels to Boston - FC Kansas City - Briana Scurry and Dr. Joe Machnick Elected to National Soccer Hall of Fame Class of 2017 - Chicago Stars FC The opinions expressed in this release are those of the organization issuing it, and do not necessarily reflect the thoughts or opinions of OurSports Central or its staff. Other Recent Chicago Stars FC Stories - Five Chicago Stars Earn National Team Call-Ups - Chicago Stars FC Announces Entertaining Slate of 2026 Match Theme Nights - Chicago Stars FC Release Full Preseason Match Schedule - Chicago Stars FC Teams up with LaCroix - Chicago Stars FC Acquires Defender Aaliyah Farmer
