=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Spencer Perceval - Wikipedia]
Spencer Perceval (1 November 1762 – 11 May 1812) was a British statesman and barrister who was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from October 1809 until his assassination in May 1812.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spencer_Perceval

[Spencer Perceval | British statesman, assassin victim | Britannica]
When King George III dismissed William Grenville’s ministry in March 1807, Perceval, an ardent opponent of Catholic emancipation, became chancellor of the Exchequer and chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster under the 3rd Duke of Portland, whom he succeeded as prime minister on Oct. 4, 1809.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Spencer-Perceval

[Spencer Perceval – History of government]
Perceval was called to the bar in 1786. By the early 1790s his success and publications opposing the French Revolution and radicalism led to his appointment as junior counsel for the prosecution of the political radicals Thomas Paine and John Horne Tooke, and then in 1796 as King’s Counsel and a bencher at Lincoln’s Inn. Perceval’s religious belief...
URL: https://history.blog.gov.uk/2015/10/28/spencer-perceval/

[Spencer Perceval (1762-1812) - The Victorian Web]
Spencer Perceval, only British Prime Minister to have been assassinated, served in that office from 4 October 1809 to 11 May 1812. He was born on 1 November 1762, the second son and fifth of nine children born to John Perceval, second Earl of Egmont, and his second wife Catherine Compton.
URL: https://victorianweb.org/history/pms/perceval.html

[12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com]
Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius).
URL: https://www.timeanddate.com/calendar/months/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Spencer Perceval - Wikipedia] ---
Spencer Perceval (1 November 1762 – 11 May 1812) was a British statesman and barrister who was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from October 1809 until his assassination in May 1812. He is the only British prime minister to have been assassinated, and the only solicitor-general or attorney-general to have become prime minister.
The younger son of The Earl of Egmont, an Anglo-Irish earl, Perceval was educated at Harrow School and Trinity College, Cambridge. He studied law at Lincoln's Inn, practised as a barrister on the Midland circuit, and in 1796 became a King's Counsel. He entered politics at age 33 as a member of Parliament (MP) for Northampton. A follower of William Pitt the Younger, Perceval always described himself as a "friend of Mr. Pitt", rather than a Tory. He was opposed to Catholic emancipation and reform of Parliament; he supported the war against Napoleon and the abolition of the Atlantic slave trade.
After a late entry into politics, his rise to power was rapid; he was appointed as Solicitor General and then Attorney General for England and Wales in the Addington ministry, Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of the House of Commons in the second Portland ministry, and then became prime minister in 1809. At the head of a weak government, Perceval faced a number of crises during his term in office, including an inquiry into the Walcheren expedition, the mental illness and incapacity of King George III, economic depression, and Luddite riots. He overcame those crises, successfully pursued the Peninsular War in the face of opposition defeatism, and won the support of the Prince Regent. His position was stronger by early 1812, when in the lobby of the House of Commons, he was assassinated by John Bellingham, a merchant with a grievance against his government. Bellingham was hanged one week later.
Perceval had four older brothers who survived to adulthood. Through expiry of their male-line, male heirs, the earldom of Egmont passed to one of his great-grandsons in the early 20th century and became extinct in 2011.




--- [Spencer Perceval | British statesman, assassin victim | Britannica] ---
Spencer Perceval Spencer Perceval (born Nov. 1, 1762, London, Eng.—died May 11, 1812, London) was a lawyer, politician, and British prime minister from 1809 until his assassination in 1812. The second son of the 2nd Earl of Egmont, Perceval was educated at Harrow and at Trinity College, Cambridge. He was called to the bar by Lincoln’s Inn in 1786 and became a king’s counsel in 1796. In that same year he entered Parliament, where his rise to power was facilitated through his contacts with William Pitt the Younger. On the formation of the government of Henry Addington (1801–04), which succeeded that of Pitt, he was appointed solicitor general. From 1802 and through Pitt’s second administration (1804–06) he was attorney general. - Born: - Nov. 1, 1762, London, Eng. - Died: - May 11, 1812, London (aged 49) - Political Affiliation: - Tory Party When King George III dismissed William Grenville’s ministry in March 1807, Perceval, an ardent opponent of Catholic emancipation, became chancellor of the Exchequer and chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster under the 3rd Duke of Portland, whom he succeeded as prime minister on Oct. 4, 1809. His administration was marked by strong opposition to the tolerant views that had ruined his predecessors; and he is one of the few English statesmen of the period notorious for his extreme religious intolerance. He was a man of a cold, ungenial nature. Perceval was shot and killed in the House of Commons by John Bellingham, a deranged man who had vainly applied to him for redress of a personal complaint against the government.


--- [Spencer Perceval – History of government] ---
Spencer Perceval was born in Audley Square, London on 1 November 1762, the second son of the second marriage of the second Earl of Egmont (and so a man of comparatively slender means). He attended Harrow School and then Trinity College, Cambridge, where he associated with others who shared the Anglican evangelicalism which later marked him out among his political peers. Opposition to radicalism Perceval was called to the bar in 1786. By the early 1790s his success and publications opposing the French Revolution and radicalism led to his appointment as junior counsel for the prosecution of the political radicals Thomas Paine and John Horne Tooke, and then in 1796 as King’s Counsel and a bencher at Lincoln’s Inn. Perceval’s religious beliefs as an evangelical Anglican underpinned his interest in strict observance of Sunday as a day of devotion, explorations of the prospective date of Christ’s second coming, familial devotion (he married Jane Wilson in 1790, with whom he had twelve children), notable private philanthropy and support for the abolition of slavery. It also underpinned commitments to public order and stamping out ‘immorality’, and to the existing arrangements in church and state, both in support for a reformed Church of England and in opposition to and parliamentary reform. Making his mark In 1796 he was elected MP for Northampton, and in a notable speech defending the Government early in 1798, established himself as a contender for a place in William Pitt's administration. In August he was appointed Solicitor to the Ordinance, and then in 1799 Solicitor-General to the Queen. From 1801 he served Prime Minister Henry Addington as Solicitor General and then Attorney General, and was then Pitt’s chief law officer in the Commons during a series of important political trials. For example, he prosecuted the revolutionary Colonel Edward Despard who was executed for high treason in 1803 after being accused of plotting both the seizure of the Tower of London and Bank of England and the assassination of George III. From lawyer to Prime Minister Having been a leader of the Pittite opposition to Grenville’s ministry, a somewhat reluctant Perceval gave up his lucrative legal practice to take office as Chancellor of the Exchequer and leader of the Commons in the Duke of Portland’s ministry in March 1807 (as well as effectually house-sitting in 10 Downing Street by the end of the year). He was thus one of several cabinet members well-placed to be considered to succeed Portland when a stroke ended his ministry in August 1809. On 30 September 1809 it was Perceval’s name that the Cabinet recommended to the King as Prime Minister, though he continued as unpaid Chancellor of the Exchequer after six other candidates declined the post; some other Pittites (including George Canning) were not prepared to serve under Perceval. The costs of war Perceval’s ministry had shaky origins, coinciding with the military disaster of the Walcheren expedition to the Netherlands, in which over 4,000 British soldiers died, mostly from disease. Perceval overcame this to gather support, crucially including that of the Prince of Wales, despite the limitations on his authority Perceval had imposed during the Regency of 1810-11. Perceval successfully underwrote the costs of the war against Napoleon through a reasonably prudent mix of economies and loans, and maintained his firm stance against and radical politics; religious nonconformists too came to fear an establishment backlash at his hands. Any lasting effect on British politics, however, was prevented by a combination of Perceval’s political conservatism, shaped by the revolutionary alarms of the 1790s, his lack of political ambition, and his unhappy distinction as the only British Prime Minister to be assassinated while in office. Assassination of Spencer Perceval He was shot dead through the heart in the parliamentary lobby on 11 May 1812 by the merchant John Bellingham, in protest at what Bellingham saw as the unjust refusal of the government to assist him when he was wrongly imprisoned in Russia, or subsequently to pay him any compensation. Bellingham was hanged for murder on 18 May; Perceval received the accolade of a monument in Westminster Abbey. Read The National Archives blog for some fascinating insights around the assassination of Spencer Perceval. Nickname Little PBorn 1 November 1762, Audley Square, London Died 11 May 1812, Lobby of the House of Commons Dates in office 4 October 1809 - 11 May 1812 Political party Pittite/Tory Major acts Regency Bill 1810 – made the Prince of Wales regent during King George III’s renewed ill health. Interesting facts The only Prime Minister to be assassinated whilst holding office. Current conservative MP Henry Bellingham is a distant descendent of his assassin, John Bellingham. Served as his own, unpaid Chancellor of the Exchequer when six others refused the office. Copyright Professor Arthur Burns. This article was produced as part of the No10 Guest Historian series, coordinated by History & Policy. Keep tabs on the past. Sign up for our email alerts.


--- [Spencer Perceval (1762-1812) - The Victorian Web] ---
Spencer Perceval, only British Prime Minister to have been assassinated, served in that office from 4 October 1809 to 11 May 1812. He was born on 1 November 1762, the second son and fifth of nine children born to John Perceval, second Earl of Egmont, and his second wife Catherine Compton. From his father's first marriage, Spencer Perceval had seven half-brothers and sisters. The family was Irish in ancestry. Perceval was educated at Harrow and Trinity , Cambridge, being awarded his College's Declamation Prize for English. He was awarded an MA in 1782 and was called to the Bar in 1786, practising on the Midland Circuit. He became Deputy Recorder of Northampton in 1790, the year in which he married Jane Spencer-Wilson in 1790: the couple had six sons and six daughters. Between 1794 and 1803, during the French Wars, Perceval was a member of the London and Westminster Light Horse Volunteers. In 1796, Perceval became MP for Northampton, a seat which he held until his death in 1812. During his time as an MP, he held a number of government posts including that of Solicitor General (Jan 1801-April 1802), Attorney General (April 1802-February 1806) and Chancellor of the Exchequer (March 1807-May 1812). Perceval was always a supporter of the government and this brought sinecures which kept him solvent until his legal career took off. He was the chief legal adviser to the Princess of Wales in the hearing of misconduct held in 1806; although she was found guilty of 'grossly indelicate conduct', Perceval was instrumental in arranging her reconciliation with George III. Always anti-Catholic, Spencer Perceval opposed Grenville's government's attempt to introduce concessions to Catholics in Ireland in 1807, thus contributing significantly to the fall of the ministry. Spencer Perceval was almost 47 years old when George III appointed him as Prime Minister on 4 October 1809. Perceval's lasting claim to fame is that, so far, he is the only British PM to have been assassinated. As a politician, Perceval was industrious, well-organised, and capable. He held the posts of PM and Chancellor of the Exchequer concurrently; while he had a conservative outlook on society, he supported the anti-slavery campaign led by Wilberforce. He was a successful finance minister but opposed concessions to Catholics, particularly in Ireland. Perceval's political career prior to his appointment as PM included him holding the post of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Portland's second ministry. In May 1807 the general election strengthened Portland's majority and proved to be Perceval's last electoral contest. On 26 June the new Parliament met to hear the King's Speech, written largely by Perceval; on 7 July 1807 following Napoleon's successes at Eylau and Friedland, the Treaty of Tilsit was signed by the Czar and Emperor. It was thought to contain secret threats to besiege Britain. Consequently, the Government ordered a pre-emptive strike against the Danish fleet at Copenhagen after which the Danes surrendered. On 11 November there was fierce opposition in Parliament both to the action against Denmark and to the Orders in Council subsequently drafted by Perceval, designed to impose retaliatory trade restrictions on neutral countries. His Bill eventually was passed on 11 March 1808; in February his Budget had to cover expenditures of about £49 million. War taxes were estimated to produce only £20 million, and after other duties and taxes and with lottery income of £350,000 a total of £8 million had to be borrowed. Beginning on 8 March, 1809 a three-day debate took place on a motion calling for the removal of the Duke of York as Commander-in-Chief. The issue arose from the practice of the Duke's mistress, Mary Clarke, of taking payments for arrangingappointments and promotions. Perceval's three-hour speech responding to the debate was widely acclaimed and a few days later the Duke of York resigned. In August and September, the illness of the Duke of Portland added to the weakness of his administration, which split into factions. Canning gathered supporters in his bid to take over as Prime Minister, but Perceval was also a serious candidate, and on 4 October 1809 the King decided to appoint Perceval, describing him as 'the most straightforward man I have ever known'. Even so, Perceval had great difficulty in filling posts in his Cabinet, and had to keep the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer himself, being unable to find a replacement. On 23 January 1810, parliament met to debate the Kings' Speech; Perceval made a long speech in which he refuted the Opposition's criticisms of the conduct of the war against France and the disastrous Walcheren expedition. The Opposition was soundly defeated at the vote. However, three days later the Opposition launched another attack on the conduct of the Walcheren expedition, and the government was defeated by 195 votes to 186. On 28 January the government was defeated in three successive divisions on the composition of the Finance Committee, which was largely made up of friends of Perceval; the ministry's problems continued. On 31 March 1810, the government narrowly survived four divisions following the publication of the findings of the Walcheren enquiry. However, the reputation of the (second) Earl of Chatham, who had ordered the expedition, was damaged, and later he resigned. A furore erupted over the arrest of Sir Francis Burdett in April: he had supported the 'rights of the people and press' to watch and report proceedings in the House of Commons and was sent to the Tower, amid widespread rioting in his support. He was released in June after parliament had gone into recess. In May, Perceval's Budget proposals were accepted, despite his worse fears, although the report of the Bullion Committee criticised the Bank of England and precipitated a financial crisis which lasted for over a year. By 18 October 1810, the king had become deeply distressed by the terminal illness of his favourite daughter, Princess Amelia; the first signs of the return of his insanity were observed. Consequently, on 19 December, Perceval informed the Prince of Wales that the Cabinet had agreed on the terms of a Regency Bill which included several restrictions on the Regent's powers. Angered, the Prince led the opposition to Perceval's proposals. Even so, the Regency Bill passed on 4 February 1811, a personal triumph for Perceval, although the Prince immediately begins to plan changes in the Cabinet. The King's health gradually began to improve and the Prince decided to confirm Perceval as PM. By July, raging inflation had set in as a consequence of war, but the financial crisis ended when Perceval made bank-notes legal tender. At the same time, the Prince Regent asked for a large grant for the maintenance of the Royal Household and to pay off his phenomenally large debts. The Prince's financial difficulties led to Perceval persuading him to accept a smaller settlement financed from the Civil List, a practise that has continued ever since. From the beginning of 1812, the government suffered the withdrawal of various of its members . On 17 January, Wellesley, who had openly supported the Prince Regent, offered his resignation as Foreign Secretary. On 31 January Charles Yorke resigned from the Admiralty on the grounds of ill health but in reality had an aversion to serving the Prince Regent. On 7 February Perceval had an audience with the Prince to discuss offering Opposition leaders places in a coalition government. Their acceptance was so unlikely that Perceval was confirmed in office as the best candidate available. Detail of an etching showing the assassination of Spencer Perceval As one result of the activities of Thomas Attwood, a Birmingham banker who had led a campaign against the Orders in Council that had been imposed in 1807, Perceval's government agreed to an enquiry into the legislation; his decision partly was the result of Attwood's activities but also partly because of the adverse effect they were having on Anglo-America relations. These erupted into the War of 1812-14. On 11 May 1812, while on his way to take part in a debate on the Orders in Council passed by Portland's ministry, Perceval was shot in the lobby of the House of Commons by John Bellingham, who had been trying unsuccessfully to obtain government compensation for debts incurred while he was in Russia. Bellingham gave himself up immediately, was tried at the Old Bailey, condemned to death on 15 May, and he executed three days later. The inquest into Perceval's death returned a verdict of wilful murder and his body was returned to Downing Street. The following day, parliament voted an annuity to Perceval's wife and children. Perceval was buried in the family vault in St. Luke's, Charlton, on 16 May 1812. In June 1812, a memorial to Perceval was placed in Westminster Abbey. Recommended Reading Gray, D. Spencer Perceval: the Evangelical Prime Minister 1762-1812. Manchester 1963. Williams, CV. The Life and Administration of the Right Hon. Spencer Perceval. London, 1812. Last modified 28 February 2002


--- [12 Months of the Year - timeanddate.com] ---
Each month has either 28, 30, or 31 days during a common year, which has 365 days. During leap years, which occur nearly every 4 years, we add an extra (intercalary) day, Leap Day, on 29 February, making leap years 366 days long. This is to keep our current calendar aligned with the solar year and astronomical seasons marked by equinoxes and solstices. The 12 Months The Gregorian calendar consists of the following 12 months: - January (31 days) - March (31 days) - April (30 days) - May (31 days) - June (30 days) - July (31 days) - August (31 days) - September (30 days) - October (31 days) - November (30 days) - December (31 days) Tracking the Moon’s Orbit The months originated as a way to mark time and break up the year into shorter periods based on the Moon’s orbit around Earth. The word month is even derived from the word Moon. As far as we know, months were first used in Mesopotamia sometime between the years 500 BCE and 400 BCE to measure the natural period related to the lunar month, or synodic month, which is the time it takes for the Moon to go through all the Moon phases. Moon phases in your cityHow Many Have 28, 29, 30, or 31 Days? The Gregorian calendar has 4 months that are 30 days long and 7 months that are 31 days long. February is the only month that is 28 days long in common years and 29 days long in leap years. From 10 to 12 Months Our current Gregorian calendar and its predecessor, the Julian calendar, both have 12 months. However, the month names we use today are derived from the Roman calendar, which initially had only 10 months, with the calendar year starting in March (Martius). Calendar with holidaysThe Romans named some of the months after their position in the calendar year: September means the 7th month, October the 8th, November the 9th, and December the 10th month. However, when January and February were eventually added and the beginning of the calendar year was moved to January, the position of these months no longer corresponded with the original meaning of their names. Today, we still call the 9th month of the year September, the 7th month. The Islamic calendar, the Hebrew calendar, and the Hindu calendar also use months to divide up the year. Although the Gregorian calendar is the most commonly used calendar today, other calendars are still used in many parts of the world to calculate certain holidays and annual feasts. Old Names of Months Months in the ancient Roman calendar include:
