=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Martin Archimbaud - Outlast Wiki - Fandom]
Martin Archimbaud is a key supporting character in Outlast and a minor character in Whistleblower. He was a patient at the asylum who presents himself as a very religious priest and self-proclaimed prophet of the Walrider, becoming one of Miles' allies, whom he considers his apostle. A note found by the player describes a patient called "Father" Martin Archimbaud who has begun suffering from ...
URL: https://outlast.fandom.com/wiki/Martin_Archimbaud

[Outlast - Father Martin Complete Dialogues, Scenes and Encounters]
Accept the gospel and all doors will open before you. Sewers 1:23 Dear dying Lamb, thy precious blood, shall never lose its power. Till all the ransomed church of God, be saved to sin no more.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rQ45AgY5k9E

[Outlast explained (SPOILERS) story explained :: Outlast ...]
After he says to kill billy he talks about someone he use to know who believed dying led to an eternal great after life, and called him a fool, before stating that the "fool" would have wept at the sight of the progress of the nanotechnology project, the "morphogenic engine".
URL: https://steamcommunity.com/app/238320/discussions/0/558747287783519873/

[Outlast (Video Game 2013) - Quotes]
Outlast · Father Martin: [Tied to a cross] My Job. You alone shall escape to tell them. This is your penultimate act of witness. The promise of the prophets was ...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2984660/quotes/?item=qt4846580

[Last.fm | Play music, find songs, and discover artists]
The world's largest online music service. Listen online, find out more about your favourite artists, and get music recommendations, only at Last.fm
URL: https://www.last.fm/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Martin Archimbaud - Outlast Wiki - Fandom] ---
- "I... I see. Merciful God, you have sent me an apostle. Guard your life, son, you have a calling." - ―Father Martin Martin Archimbaud is a key supporting character in Outlast and a minor character in Whistleblower. He was a patient at the asylum who presents himself as a very religious priest and self-proclaimed prophet of the Walrider, becoming one of Miles' allies, whom he considers his apostle. Background[] A note found by the player describes a patient called "Father" Martin Archimbaud who has begun suffering from delusions of a "higher calling" after the asylum's art therapy program is done away with. The quotation marks around the word "father" in the note imply that his status as a priest is questionable. This origin is hinted at by the cross on his chest that appears to be fashioned from straps, and at times a buckle is visible. His religion worships the Walrider, as it's the only reasonable explanation he could suffice in his state of dementia. His past experiences with finger painting[1] may have led him to mark the path for Miles in blood in the form of writing, arrows and smears. Several notes in the game are written by him. Characteristics[] Father Martin sees himself as a prophet of his god, the Walrider and believes that it is his duty to spread its gospel, named "The Gospel of Sand." He presents himself as a calm and good man who is only carrying out his duty, even apologizing to Miles for sedating him. Martin's faith is so strong that he eventually burns himself on a cross, believing he will be resurrected and set free. He was able to seize control of some of the inmates of Mount Massive Asylum such as the Twins, to the point that he was able to grant Miles free passage through certain sections of the building. However, characters such as Chris Walker and Eddie Gluskin are not under his leadership. Additionally, Trager seems to despise the priest entirely, which is evidenced by his rants before he mutilates Miles' fingers, calling him "little shit" and "a bit crazy." Story[] Outlast[] Miles first encounters Father Martin in the atrium after having been thrown through a window by Chris Walker. Seeing their meeting as divine intervention, he calls Miles his apostle and tells him that he has a greater purpose. After Miles wakes up from the blackout he is gone. Martin is later seen on a video monitor in the Security Control room, cutting off the power to the asylum to prevent Miles from opening the main door to escape. After Miles restarts the generator in the basement and returns to the Security Control room to open the main doors, Father Martin overwhelms him and injects him with a sedative. He says that he cannot allow Miles to leave, for there is so much yet for him to witness. Before Miles blacks out, Father Martin points to a live camera feed from the Underground Laboratory, which shows an entity known as The Walrider attacking and slaughtering a team of Murkoff Tactical soldiers. Father Martin then tells Miles that he has to 'accept the gospel' and that, in doing so, all doors will open before him. Miles then blacks out and is transported by Father Martin to the holding cells in the Prison Block. Father Martin is then seen in certain areas throughout the game, sometimes instructing Miles to follow him through. He can be seen in the Sewer, walking past a blocked off passage while singing. The next encounter is near the end of the Male Ward after escaping from Trager, he exclaims that he is glad Miles survived, for he feared that Trager would carve him up like he did with numerous other patients, he says they're close now and that Miles should follow him outside to the Courtyard where he leaves a message in blood and a document near the flickering lantern post. Father Martin is seen next inside the Female Ward, waiting at the middle floor of a collapsed section, shouting if Miles saw The Walrider as well, he says Miles can cross from the upper floors to reach him. He is last seen in the Chapel, in the upper floors of the Administration Block, where he is crucified in a ceremony as a prayer to The Walrider and tells Miles to record his death. A document explaining the ritual can be found earlier in one of the rooms with a praying patient. Outlast: Whistleblower[] Martin makes a cameo appearance in the Prison. Waylon Park passes him as he is painting on the wall, "Down the Drain" for his followers. He tells Waylon not to worry, for he is doing "his" work. Later in the DLC, Waylon can look out of a window in the Male Ward and see the exterior of the chapel, now ablaze in the aftermath of Father Martin's death. Personality[] Martin is completely delusional and blindly religious to the Walrider, acting as a calm priest who solely focuses on his faith to please his god. This warps him to see almost everything related to his belief, such as viewing Miles crashing next to him as the Walrider sending him an apostle, later leaving Miles bloodstained finger painted messages on walls to guide him throughout the asylum. His devotion is both suicidal and murderous, leading him to crucify and burn himself alive for the sake of the Walrider. Physical description[] Martin appears as a bald, chubby old man in his 60s with a considerably terrifying facial expression. He wears a garb of a black unbuttoned straitjacket fashioned into a priestly robe-like garment, with the back draping down to his ankles. He also has black pants, matching slippers and beige straps around his torso and wrists, with the torso straps fashioned into the shape of a cross. Trivia[] - A silhouette can be seen near the asylum's entrance in one of its upper-left windows at the start of the game briefly glancing at the player before disappearing. Clipping through the walls reveals it to be Father Martin. - Martin speaks Latin. - In the game's configuration files, Martin is dubbed as "Priest." - Father Martin is one of the five characters who appear in both the main game and the Whistleblower DLC; the others are Richard Trager, Chris Walker, The Walrider, and The Twins. - With Trager being dead, Father Martin is the only one who is not hostile towards the protagonist. References[] [] | | Minor Characters |


--- [Outlast - Father Martin Complete Dialogues, Scenes and Encounters] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Outlast explained (SPOILERS) story explained :: Outlast ...] ---
Install Steam sign in | language 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese) 繁體中文 (Traditional Chinese) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) ไทย (Thai) Български (Bulgarian) Čeština (Czech) Dansk (Danish) Deutsch (German) Español - España (Spanish - Spain) Español - Latinoamérica (Spanish - Latin America) Ελληνικά (Greek) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian) Magyar (Hungarian) Nederlands (Dutch) Norsk (Norwegian) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese - Portugal) Português - Brasil (Portuguese - Brazil) Română (Romanian) Русский (Russian) Suomi (Finnish) Svenska (Swedish) Türkçe (Turkish) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Українська (Ukrainian) Report a translation problem


--- [Outlast (Video Game 2013) - Quotes] ---
Shared with you - Father Martin: [Injects a sedative into Miles] I'm sorry, my son, I didn't want to have to do this to you. But you can't leave, not yet. There is so much for you to witness. - [Turns Miles to the camera screen] - Father Martin: Will you see it? Can you? - [Murkoff private forces are being thrown around by an invisible force] - Father Martin: Our Lord, the Walrider, tearing His truth into the unbelievers. The only way out of this place is the truth. Accept the gospel and all doors will open before you. - Rick Trager: You know, I'm a bit worried how much time you've been spending with Father Martin, I know, I hope you haven't been letting him confuse you with all his "holier than thou" bible thumping. Uh, no offense to the man, but I sometimes worry he might just be a little bit crazy. - Rick Trager: It's understandable, people get scared. They're as likely to turn to god as anything else. God died with the gold standard, we're onto a more concrete faith now. You have to rob Paul to pay Peter, there's no other way. - Rick Trager: Murder is the simplest form, but what happens when all the money is gone? Well money becomes a matter of faith, and that's what I'm here for. To make you, believe! - [Trager starts cutting off one of Miles' fingers] - Rick Trager: You paying attention? - [Trager slaps Miles] - Rick Trager: Don't pass out on me. There's still a lot for you absorb! - Rick Trager: There! Better now, right? You understand what we achieved here? We made the consumer into the means of production. This thing, is gonna sell itself! - Rick Trager: You know, I love the mountain air up here at night. You wanna head out, take a strole? Go ahead, I'll wait here. Go on, run free! - [chuckles] - Rick Trager: I'm in no hurry. No? Alright. Nose to the grindstone, I like that. Okay then. Right this way. - Miles Upshur: [in a note, after recording Trager's death] How to make Trager juice. Step 1: Squeeze. - Patient #1: Kill me... Kill me... - Patient #2: [Screams and shaking on gurney] - Rick Trager: Shhh, shh. You weren't putting that tongue to any use anyway. Truth be told, I was just tired of licking my own stamps. - Father Martin: [Finding Miles] And who are you, then? - [Checks Miles camera] - Father Martin: I... I see. Merciful God, you have sent me an apostle. Guard your life, son, you have a calling. - Father Martin: [Tied to a cross] My Job. You alone shall escape to tell them. This is your penultimate act of witness. The promise of the prophets was always freedom from death. And here it is. You will watch and record my death, my resurrection. And together we will be free. You are no longer in any danger. I've fixed the elevator. It will take you to freedom. We will all of us be free. Now, my son. - [a follower ignites the pyres and Father Martin is burned alive] - Stephenson: They killed us. They got out. The variants. You can't fight them. Have to hide. Can unlock the main doors from security control. You have to get the fuck out of this terrible place. - [Dies] - Rick Trager: [after returning to the now-empty room where he was holding Miles] Fuck! Fuck! Really? You're gonna walk on me? If there is one thing I cannot goddamned stand, it's a quitter! Come on! - Miles Upshur: [Written note] Fuck this place. Seriously, just fuck this place. Dying keeps moving lower on the list of the worst things that could happen to me here. - Miles Upshur: [Written note] I'm inside. Bodies everywhere. Blood. Burn marks. Heads lined up like bottles behind a bar, dead Murkoff scientists hung from the ceiling, their badges say "Murkoff Advanced Research Sytems." Murkoff's long time M.O. has been to profit off the exploitation of supposed charity. Fuck the third world and bankroll another billion. How did Murkoff think they would make money off a building full of crazy people? There's some kind of tactical cop pinned like a pig on a spit. Tells me to get the fuck out and then dies. Would have been a good thing to hear when I could still leave the way I came. - Miles Upshur: [Written note] I start feeling sick just looking at this place. Mount Massive Asylum, shut down amid scandal and government secrecy in 1971, reopened under the Murkoff Psychiatric Systems in 2009 under the guise of a charitable organization. Cell phone reception cut off abruptly a mile out, more like a jammer than a lost signal. The Murkoff Corporation has a long track record of disguising profit as charity. But never on American soil. Whatever they thought they could get out of this place has to be big. Might finally be the story that breaks the bastards. - Chris Walker: We have to contain it. You were here, weren't you? Little pig. I'll find all you whores. Patience. The cornerstone of enhance interrogation, endurance of the man asking questions, not the subject. We will have the truth. - Miles Upshur: [Written note] I'm already beat to hell, picking broken glass out of my scalp, couple cracked ribs. Nearly killed by a deformed giant, looks like somebody tried to fuck-start his head with a cheese grater. He throws me through a wall, knocks me unconscious. I wake up and some doughy old man with a face like an alcoholic kiddy fiddler in a homemade priest outfit calls me his Apostle. Not a job I asked for. There are words scrawled in blood everywhere. I'm getting an ugly feeling in my gut that the priest is writing them, for my benefit. - Miles Upshur: [Written note] So much blood in the water I can smell it. Like putting a penny in your mouth when you were a kid. The whispers are making more sense, I'm looking for static. It's like an itch. - Miles Upshur: [Written note] Trager. Sick fucker cut my fingers off. Has tortured and mangled dozens of patients, I watched him murder another one, nothing I could do about it. Talks like a white collar douchebag, probably has a set of golf clubs in the trunk of hi Audi. I bet the rest of my fingers he was Murkoff's top brass before whatever's infected this place changed him. I want out of this place. I want my fucking fingers back. I want to see Trager die. - Miles Upshur: [Written note] The big fucker is stalking me. Found a patient file for a Chris Walker, ex-military police, several tours in Afghanistan. A lot of blood in this place is on his hands. But not all of it. - Father Martin: [Injects a sedative into Miles] I'm sorry, my son, I didn't want to have to do this to you. But you can't leave, not yet. There is so much for you to witness. - [Turns Miles to the camera screen] - Father Martin: Will you see it? Can you? - [Murkoff private forces are being thrown around by an invisible force] - Father Martin: Our Lord, the Walrider, tearing His truth into the unbelievers. The only way out of this place is the truth. Accept the gospel and all doors will open before you. - Pyromaniac: I had to burn it. All of it. Murkoff took so much from us. Used us. Turned us into these things because nobody cares about a few forgotten lunatics. So let it burn. Burn the whole god damned thing down. Get out. If you want to live. You can get out through the kitchen. - Interviewer: ...exit interview recorded December 27th, 1985 in Los Alamos, New Mexico. Clearance Sierra Alpha. Subject Dr. Rudolf Wernicke. 14866. - Wernicke: The films are real. - Interviewer: There was no alteration to the footage at all? No trickery? - Wernicke: None. - Interviewer: In June of 1943 you recorded three instances of spontaneous bleeding. A half dozen test subjects began to develop brain tumors. - Wernicke: Yes. The autopsies revealed that the tumors were pure lead. - Interviewer: It killed them? Can you explain why the results could not be reproduced in the United States? - Wernicke: I have my theories. My homeland, in those years. It's impossible to understand the things we felt. What we believed. The overwhelming fear. Ecstatic rage and... English words are insufficient. More than hope. A human mind in that environment is capable of extraordinary things. - Interviewer: You're saying the experiment needed... - Wernicke: A proximity to death. To overwhelming madness. Only a test subject who had witnessed enough horror was capable of activating the engine. - Interviewer: Do believe your test subjects achieved something supernatural? - Wernicke: No. - Interviewer: Do you think they contacted something supernatural? - Wernicke: Nothing is supernatural. - Interviewer: Then what was it? You said Project Walrider was a gateway. A gateway to what?


--- [Last.fm | Play music, find songs, and discover artists] ---
Your music stats. Live. Track the music you stream by connecting Last.fm to a music service or via our web client, app or a browser plugin. View your stats in real time, receive weekly reports, access your listening history and much more. Connect your streaming service to Last.fm We find you music to love. Last.fm uses your listening history to recommend you new music and events. Find music to love on your personalized music page, Next_30 playlist or recommended radio. Rediscover your music. Every song you've listened to, all in one place. Access your entire listening history anytime relive specific days, view your all time stats and rediscover forgotten favorites.
