=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Isadora Duncan - Wikipedia]
In 1902, Loie Fuller invited Duncan to tour with her. This took Duncan all over Europe as she created new works using her innovative technique, [17] which emphasized natural movement in contrast to the rigidity of traditional ballet. [18]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isadora_Duncan

[Isadora Duncan (1877-1927)]
After a tour with Loie Fuller’s company, Isadora was invited to perform her own program in Budapest, Hungary (1902), where she danced to sold-out performances with a full orchestra.
URL: https://isadoraduncanarchive.org/dancer/1/

[Angela Isadora Duncan (1877–1927) - FamilySearch.org]
In 1902, Loie Fuller invited Duncan to tour with her. This took Duncan all over Europe as she created new works using her innovative technique, which emphasized natural movement in contrast to the rigidity of tradition ballet.
URL: https://ancestors.familysearch.org/en/MXTZ-6WX/isadora-angela-duncan-1877-1927

[2019 — The Isadora Duncan Dance Awards]
2019 The Isadora Duncan Dance Awards. 2019 The 2019 The I. Duncan Dance. Awards. The IsAdora Duncan dance Awards.
URL: http://www.izzies-sf.org/2019-press-releases

[Isadora Duncan - The inventor of American modern ... - The Vintage News]
Feb 8, 2017 · Isadora Duncan in 1900, by Paul Berger Abraham Walkowitz’s Isadora Duncan #29. Isadora Duncan. Illustration by Antoine Bourdelle. In 1902, Isadora was invited by Loie Fuller to tour with her. They traveled all around Europe and Isadora could perform freely, creating a more innovative technique.
URL: https://www.thevintagenews.com/2017/02/08/isadora-duncan-the-inventor-of-american-modern-dance-died-tragically-when-her-long-scarf-became-entangled-around-the-rear-axle-of-the-car-she-was-riding-in/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Isadora Duncan - Wikipedia] ---
Angela Isadora Duncan (May 26, 1877, or May 27, 1878 – September 14, 1927) was an American-born dancer and choreographer, who was a pioneer of modern contemporary dance and performed to great acclaim throughout Europe and the United States. Born and raised in California, she lived and danced in Western Europe, the U.S., and Soviet Russia from the age of 22. She died when her scarf became entangled in the wheel and axle of the car in which she was travelling in Nice, France.




--- [Isadora Duncan (1877-1927)] ---
Isadora Duncan (1877-1927) - Students: Alexandra (Shura) Aksenova | Elizavetta Belova | Maria Borisova | Valentine Boye | Lily Dikovskaya | Anna Duncan | Erika Duncan | Irma Duncan | Lisa Duncan | Margot Duncan | Maria-Theresa Duncan | Elena Federovskaya | Vera Golovina | Tamara Lobanovskaya | Maria (Mussia) Mykovskaya | Tamara Semonova | Elena Terentieva | Maria Toropchenova | Yulia Vashentseva "There was never a place for her in the ranks of the terrible, slow army of the cautious. She ran ahead, where there were no paths.” - Dorothy Parker, 1928 Isadora Duncan (1877-1927), often called the “mother of modern dance” was born in San Francisco and went on to liberate dance from the confines of the ballet of her time, shedding slippers and corset to combine the use of simple, natural movement with a vibrant musicality. She sought a movement vocabulary that would illuminate the human spirit and its connection to nature and she was the first to choreograph to music not originally written for dance, including the works of Beethoven, Chopin, Brahms, and Scriabin. Duncan's career was marked by controversy as American audiences took exception to her bare limbs and bold movement. She was determined to succeed and left with her boundless spirit to Europe and Russia where she met and inspired the some of the great artists of her time. In May 1899 Isadora and her family traveled to London, in search of ways to explore art history and connections to movement. Isadora studied the Greek and Roman antiquities at the British Museum sitting for hours in front of the artworks and imagining how they might move. Here she met and performed for prominent Londoners dancing the legend of Orpheus, to the music of Gluck. In The Art of the Dance Isadora described herself as neither the narrator nor the character of the myths she danced, but the “soul of the music”. She danced as a soloist but always imagined herself to be the Greek Chorus reflecting the voices of nature and humanity. The following year Isadora followed her brother Raymond to Paris, where he sketched and she studied the Louvre’s Greece vase collection. After a tour with Loie Fuller’s company, Isadora was invited to perform her own program in Budapest, Hungary (1902), where she danced to sold-out performances with a full orchestra. Her famous encore was The Blue Danube. Performances followed in Berlin, Vienna and Munich. Many visual artists documented her ecstatic movement including Emile-Antoine Bourdelle, Peter Berger, Robert Henri, August Rodin, Jose Clara (see image above), Jules Grandjouan, Valentine Lecomte and Abraham Walkowitz. Between 1904 and 1907, Duncan lived and worked in Greece, Germany, Russia and Scandinavia. During this time she collaborated with the scenic designer Gordon Craig and the Russian theatre director Konstantin Stanislavsky. In 1904, Duncan established her first school of dance in Grunewald, Germany followed by schools in France and Russia. Here she began to develop her theories of dance education and to organize her famous dance group, dubbed by the press, the Isadorables. Duncan built a home in Kapanos, Greece and traveled widely touring to South America, throughout Europe, Russia and Egypt. When she performed in Russia she made a profound impact on the Russian ballet which immediately (via Mikhail Fokine and his Les Sylphides) adopted her musical choices and more naturalistic approach to movement. Although Isadora was drawn to Greek myths and philosophy, her work was grounded in the deep expressive power of the body. She recreated, rather than copied, ancient themes and allowed the body to feel weight and the force of gravity. She defined the solar plexus as the “central spring of all movement” (Duncan, “My Life”). As a performer, documented in reviews and personal accounts, she moved audiences deeply throughout her career, and presented movement stripped of décor and theatrical artifice. This striking modernism continued as the tragic events of her live unfolded. After the deaths of her two children she stopped dancing and creating for over a year and when she returned it was with a weighted force and abstraction that connected her initial creations, inspired by nature and antiquity, to large group works and a focus on political struggle. Isadora and Irma Duncan (devoted student and teacher of the next generation) traveled to Russia in 1921, at the invitation of the Russian government, where they formed a school for children. There Isadora created and performed works which embodied the fight for long denied freedoms, and dedicated songs and dances to the Russian workers and Russian children. Conditions in Russia were bleak with the school often suffering unheated studios and poor rations. When Isadora Duncan returned to the United States in October 1922 after her triumphant appearances in Moscow, she brought back a boundless enthusiasm for the Soviet system and a Russian husband, Sergei Esenin, almost two decades her junior. Her return was widely covered in the press because she and Sergei Esenin, popular Russian poet were briefly detained by the immigration authorities at Ellis Island under suspicion of being “Bolshevik agents.” In 1927, Isadora agreed to publish her memoirs “My Life” and finished writing and dictating them to her secretary, Mary Desti. Her last performance was at the Mogador Theatre in Paris on July 8. On September 14, 1927, at age 50, Isadora was killed in an open sports car when her scarf was entangled in the spokes of the rear wheel. As no films or notation of Isadora’s dances were made until long after her death in 1927, Duncan’s choreography has been preserved through the teaching of one generation of Duncan dancers to the next. Over the past 90 years generations have continued to study with Duncan's disciples throughout the world. The “Isadorables” adopted by Duncan in 1919 taught the next generation of students and they became the important Duncan teachers of the 20th century. These include Julia Levien, Hortense Kooluris, Gemze DeLappe, Annabelle Gamson, Mignon Garland and Sylvia Gold. Many choreographers who followed Isadora Duncan transferred her influence to new generations. In Berlin, Michio Ito saw performances by Isadora Duncan (along with Pavlova and Nijinsky), which was the inspiration directing him toward a career in dance. Jose Limón regarded Isadora Duncan as his “dance mother,” and in 1972 created a series of solos evoking different periods of her life by intertwining aspects of her artistic and personal lives. Katherine Dunham knew of Duncan’s bold attitudes towards personal freedom of expression and natural movement. Dunham explained that Isadora Duncan let dance out of the cage of the old ballet and that Sergei Diaghilev (in exile with the Russians in Paris) gave structure to the new energy Isadora unleashed. (from Kaiso! Writings by and about Katherine Dunham). Duncan, as the “mother of modern dance” planted the seeds of innovation for dance artists of the 20th century and continues to inspire into the 21st . Related items in the Archives The Collection of Barbara Kane > Photos > Irma, Isadora, and Sergei The Collection of Barbara Kane > Photos > Photo of Isadora The San Francisco Museum of Performance and Design > Programs > Isadora Duncan — Nov 25, 1917 The Collection of Barbara Kane > Programs > Isadora Duncan — 1908 The Collection of Janaea Rose Lyn (McAlee) > Programs > Isadora Duncan — Nov 21, 1916 The Collection of Barbara Kane > Artwork > Four drawings of Isadora in the Butterfly Etude The Collection of Janaea Rose Lyn (McAlee) > Artwork > Isadora at end of Rose Petals The Collection of Janaea Rose Lyn (McAlee) > Artwork > Jose Clara drawing The Collection of Janaea Rose Lyn (McAlee) > Artwork > Knucklebones The Collection of Janaea Rose Lyn (McAlee) > Artwork > Drawing of Isadora by Van Dearing Perrine The Collection of Barbara Kane > Leaflets > The Dance of Isadora Duncan The San Francisco Museum of Performance and Design > News Clippings > Newspaper ad for My Life Related references Albright, Ann Cooper: "Isadora Duncan (1877-1927)." Dance Heritage Coalition, 2012.


--- [Angela Isadora Duncan (1877–1927) - FamilySearch.org] ---
Your web browser is not fully supported. Please update to the latest version to enjoy all that FamilySearch has to offer.


--- [2019 — The Isadora Duncan Dance Awards] ---
We couldn't find the page you were looking for. This is either because: - There is an error in the URL entered into your web browser. Please check the URL and try again. - The page you are looking for has been moved or deleted. You can return to our homepage by clicking here, or you can try searching for the content you are seeking by clicking here.


--- [Isadora Duncan - The inventor of American modern ... - The Vintage News] ---
Isadora Duncan was a dancer who was born in 1877 or 1878, in San Francisco. What distinguishes Isadora from all her other contemporaries is that her dancing didn’t adhere to a form, to rules, or rigid ballet techniques. She had a completely different and pioneering philosophy towards dance. She perceived dance as a natural movement of the body and a medium for the expression of the human spirit. Isadora was deeply moved and inspired by ancient Greek art, which she combined with her American sense of freedom. She is considered the creator of modern dance. Duncan’s parents divorced when she was just an infant, and she lived with her mother and three other siblings in extremely poor conditions. The children, who were all dancers, didn’t have any other choice but to contribute to their household income by giving dancing lessons to the other kids in the neighborhood. Isadora continued with this throughout her teenage years. She loved dancing, and she always improvised and experimented with her moves. She traveled to Chicago and became part of the Augustin Daly’s theater company. From there, Isadora moved to New York City, where, unfortunately, the stage wasn’t ready for her unique movements. Feeling disappointed and unappreciated, Isadora left America and moved to London in 1898. In London, she danced in wealthy peoples’ drawing rooms, while she was drawing her inspiration from the Greek art in the British Museum. Her earnings were sufficient for renting a studio where she could create “magic” for the stage. After London, Isadora traveled to Paris, drawing more inspiration from the Louvre. In 1902, Isadora was invited by Loie Fuller to tour with her. They traveled all around Europe and Isadora could perform freely, creating a more innovative technique. She influenced the perception of dance at the time by giving the audience natural movement dance instead of rigid ballet techniques. Even though the critics were divided in their opinion, Isadora inspired many artists such as Abraham Walkowitz, Arnold Ronnebeck, Auguste Rodin, and Antoine Bourdelle, who created works based on her. Unusual for a stage artist, Isadora wasn’t fond of the commercial aspects of public performance, such as contracts and touring. Her mission was to share the dance and her philosophy of movement, so she opened schools and dedicated herself to teaching young people. Duncan opened the first school in Berlin-Grunewald, Germany, in 1904. This was the place where the “Isadorables,” Isadora’s protégées, were educated. This was a group of six girls – Erika, Irma, Gretel, Maria-Theresa, Liesel, and Anna, who continued their teacher’s legacy, while the name “Isadorables” was given to them by the French poet Fernand Divoire. Isadora legally adopted all six of them in 1919. She also opened a school in Paris, but it didn’t last long due to the outbreak of WWI. Aleister Crowley, whom Duncan met in 1910, wrote of her: “Isadora Duncan has this gift of gesture to a very high degree. Let the reader study her dancing, if possible in private than in public, and learn the superb ‘unconsciousness’- which is magical consciousness – with which she suits the action to the melody.” – Aleister Crowley, “Magick: Liber ABA: Book 4: Parts 1-4”. He also refers to Isadora under the name, “Lavinia King” in his “Confessions” and his novel “Moonchild.” Duncan’s dancing costumes were also unique and extraordinary, as they allowed her to move freely and gave the impression that her body is extremely comfortable, which is the complete opposite of the corseted ballet costumes. Ancient Greek art always inspired Isadora’s clothes, and her most famous costume was a white Greek tunic she wore while barefoot. In 1911, while at a lavish party organized in a rented mansion, the Pavillon du Butard in La Celle-Saint-Cloud, by the French fashion designer Paul Poiret, Isadora, wearing a Greek evening gown designed by the host, danced barefoot on tables among 300 people and 900 bottles of champagne. As much as she did not respect the rules and laws in dance, she was also less keen to observe morality and traditional mores in her way of life. She was an atheist, communist sympathizer, and bisexual. She had two children born in 1906 and 1910, one of which was with the theater designer Gordon Craig, and the second with Paris Singer. Both her children drowned with their nanny when their runaway car went into the Seine in 1913. It took Isadora years to recover from her children’s deaths and she never actually fully came back to herself. In 1921, Isadora moved to Moscow where she met the 18 years younger poet Sergei Yesenin. They married after a few months, and although Yesenin joined her on tour in the United States and Europe, after less than a year, he returned to Moscow, leaving the marriage. He committed suicide in 1925. Isadora had a brief relationship with the poet and playwright, Mercedes de Acosta. Most of her later life featured her drunkness, debts, and love affairs. In 1927, while driving with friends in Nice, in an Amilcar automobile, she wore a hand-painted, long, and flowing silk scarf, designed by the artist Roman Chatov. It was a present from her friend Mary Desti who was also driving in the car. The vehicle was open-air, and the most bizarre accident happened to Isadora – her silk scarf became entangled around the open-spoked wheels and rear axle while still draped around her neck. It hurled Isadora from the car and broke her neck. Following this horrific incident, Duncan was brought to the hospital and declared dead and was later cremated, and her ashes were placed next to those of her children, in the columbarium at Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris, 1927.
