=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Rosie Perez - Wikipedia]
When she was in third grade, Perez learned that she had a speech impediment. [8] She had a strict Catholic upbringing, which she has credited to the influence of the nuns during her childhood. [6][9] She eventually moved in with her paternal aunt, Ana Dominga Otero Serrano-Roque. [10]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosie_Perez

[Rosie Perez - careexperienceandculture.com]
When she was in third grade, Perez learned that she had a speech impediment. She had a strict Catholic upbringing, which she has credited to the influence of the nuns during her childhood. She eventually moved in with paternal aunt, Ana Dominga Otero Serrano-Roque, and attended Grover Cleveland High School, in the Ridgewood neighborhood of Queens.
URL: https://www.careexperienceandculture.com/master/rosie-perez

[Facts - Rosie Perez - Wiki: Biography - Kinorium]
When she was in third grade, Perez learned that she had a speech impediment. She had a strict Catholic upbringing, which she has credited to the influence of the nuns during her childhood.
URL: https://en.kinorium.com/name/1608/info/

[英語「grade」の意味・使い方・読み方 | Weblio英和辞書]
grade (third-person singular simple present grades, present participle grading, simple past and past participle graded) (chiefly Canada, US) To assign scores to the components of an academic test, or to overall academic performance.
URL: https://ejje.weblio.jp/content/grade

[Rosie Perez - grokipedia.com]
In third grade, Perez learned she had a speech impediment. She was transferred to a group foster home and lived in placements in New York and Peekskill until age eight, after which she moved in with her paternal aunt Ana Dominga Otero Serrano-Roque.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Rosie_Perez


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Rosie Perez - Wikipedia] ---
Rosa Maria Perez (born September 6, 1964) is an American actress. Her breakthrough came at age 24 with her portrayal of Tina in the film Do the Right Thing (1989). Her starring film roles since include It Could Happen to You (1994), The Road to El Dorado (2000), The Take (2007), Pineapple Express (2008), and Birds of Prey (2020).
Among other accolades, Perez was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for Fearless in 1994. Perez earned three Primetime Emmy Award nominations for In Living Color (1990–1994) and another Emmy nomination for her work in The Flight Attendant (2020–22).
She has performed in stage plays on Broadway such as The Ritz, Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune, and Fish in the Dark. She was also a co-host on the ABC talk show The View during the series' 18th season.


--- [Rosie Perez - careexperienceandculture.com] ---
Actors Rosie Perez Rosa María Perez (born September 6, 1964) is an American actress, choreographer and community activist. Her mother Lydia Perez spent time in and out of jail. Perez’s mother gave birth to her youngest child while incarcerated. Rosa was for a time raised by an aunt and then like her siblings went through group homes and foster care. Her and her siblings were often split up. She was then transferred to a group foster home and lived in foster care in New York and Peekskill until age eight, and was still legally considered a ward of the State of New York until age twelve. Her mother and aunt frequently visited, and her father made an unsuccessful custody bid at one point. When she was in third grade, Perez learned that she had a speech impediment. She had a strict Catholic upbringing, which she has credited to the influence of the nuns during her childhood. She eventually moved in with paternal aunt, Ana Dominga Otero Serrano-Roque, and attended Grover Cleveland High School, in the Ridgewood neighborhood of Queens. Her mother died of AIDS-related complications in 1999. When her mother died she was living in poverty in Queensbridge houses.


--- [Facts - Rosie Perez - Wiki: Biography - Kinorium] ---
Rosa Maria Perez (born September 6, 1964) is an American actress. Her breakthrough came at age 24 with her portrayal of Tina in the film Do the Right Thing (1989). Her starring film roles since include It Could Happen to You (1994), The Road to El Dorado (2000), The Take (2007), Pineapple Express (2008), and Birds of Prey (2020). Among other accolades, Perez was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for Fearless in 1994. Perez earned three Primetime Emmy Award nominations for In Living Color (1990–1994) and another Emmy nomination for her work in The Flight Attendant (2020–22). She has performed in stage plays on Broadway such as The Ritz, Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune, and Fish in the Dark. She was also a co-host on the ABC talk show The View during the series' 18th season. Early life Perez was born on September 6, 1964, in the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City, to Lydia Pérez and Ismael Serrano, a merchant marine seaman. Her mother Lydia (née Fontañez y Reyes) was born in Humacao, Puerto Rico. Her father was from Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. Her mother was married to a man 20 years her senior, Arturo Pérez. Her mother already had five children when she became pregnant with Rosie after having an affair with Serrano. Perez was born at the now-closed Greenpoint Hospital in the Greenpoint neighborhood of Brooklyn. One of 10 children born to her mother, Perez grew up in Bushwick with her siblings while their mother was intermittently jailed. Her mother gave birth to her youngest child while incarcerated. Perez was for a time raised by an aunt and then, like her siblings, went through group homes and foster care. She and her siblings were often split up. She was transferred to a group foster home and lived in foster care in New York and Peekskill until the age of eight. She was legally considered a ward of the State of New York until age 12. Her mother and aunt frequently visited, and her father made an unsuccessful custody bid at one point. When she was in third grade, Perez learned that she had a speech impediment. She had a strict Catholic upbringing, which she has credited to the influence of the nuns during her childhood. She eventually moved in with her paternal aunt, Ana Dominga Otero Serrano-Roque. She attended Grover Cleveland High School, in the Ridgewood neighborhood of Queens. By 1999, her mother was living in poverty in the Woodside Houses, when she died of AIDS-related complications. Career At 19 years old, Perez started her career in the early 1980s as a dancer on Soul Train. As a student at Los Angeles City College, with plans to major in biochemistry, she said she relieved stress by going to nightclubs for ladies' night. A talent scout from Soul Train asked Perez to appear on the show. She was not a professional dancer, but loved it so much she dropped out of school. In 1988, when she was 23 years old, Perez was noticed at the dance club Funky Reggae by Spike Lee, who hired her for her first major acting role in Do the Right Thing (1989). Perez later choreographed music videos by Janet Jackson, Bobby Brown, Diana Ross, LL Cool J and The Boys. She was the choreographer for the dancing group the Fly Girls, who were featured on the Fox television comedy program In Living Color, and also worked as a segment producer. She made her Broadway debut in Terrence McNally's Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune. Perez had her third major role in the hit comedy White Men Can't Jump (1992) co-starring Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson. Perez was nominated for the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her role in Peter Weir's 1993 film Fearless. She attended the ceremony with her father. In 1994, she co-starred with Nicolas Cage in It Could Happen to You. In 1997, she co-starred with Javier Bardem in Perdita Durango where she played the titular character, a film in which many scenes of violence, sex and nudity were edited out of the version released in the United States but remained intact in the version released throughout Latin America. In 1999, Perez starred in Nancy Savoca's The 24 Hour Woman. She provides the voices of Click, the camera, on Nick Jr.'s Go, Diego, Go! (2005-11) and Chel, a beautiful native woman in the DreamWorks Animation film The Road to El Dorado (2000). She played corrupt police officer Carol Brazier in the Judd Apatow-produced film Pineapple Express (2008), co-starring Seth Rogen and James Franco. Perez appeared on an episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit in October 2009 about pedophiles' rights. Executive producer Neal Baer said the writers had Perez in mind when they wrote the role of a young sexual abuse victim's mother. She injured her neck while filming the episode and underwent surgery to heal a herniated disc. One year after the accident, she appeared at the White House in a wheelchair, wearing a neck brace for a meeting with President Obama. In May 2011, Perez filed a lawsuit against the producers of the show, saying the injury she incurred was the result of being "recklessly pulled, grabbed, yanked, wrenched and manhandled" during filming. In June 2013, she served as the grand marshal for the international Boxing Hall of Fame parade in Canastota, New York. In February 2014, Perez published an autobiography titled Handbook for an Unpredictable Life: How I Survived Sister Renata and My Crazy Mother, and Still Came Out Smiling... She is also the reader of the audio CD of this book. Perez said that she did not initially set out to write an autobiography, but rather a book that analyzes the causes and effects of child abuse. She said it was not until about six months after the book was published and she heard responses from others that she found the experience cathartic. On September 3 of the same year, ABC announced Perez would join The View as a new co-host alongside moderator Whoopi Goldberg, newcomer Nicolle Wallace, and returning co-host Rosie O'Donnell. The new season began on September 15, 2014. Perez said she was initially hesitant about the job because "I didn't want to be on a show where people were just screaming at each other disrespectfully." She decided to join the cast when she learned that Bill Wolff, whom she knew from The Rachel Maddow Show, was going to be the new executive producer. In 2015, she returned to Broadway to star in Fish in the Dark, a play written by Larry David. On July 8, 2015, Perez announced she would be leaving The View. In 2018, in a series regular role, Perez portrayed Tracey Wolfe in the NBC musical drama television series Rise, which ran for one season. She starred in the 2020 superhero film Birds of Prey, as the DC Entertainment superhero Renee Montoya / Question. Later that year, Perez starred in the comedy-drama series The Flight Attendant. She earned a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for the role. In 2021 Perez starred in the film adaptation of the children's book series Clifford the Big Red Dog. In 2023, she had a role in season 2 of the Showtime series Your Honor. She was an official commentator for the Jake Paul vs. Mike Tyson boxing match. Activism Perez is an activist for Puerto Rican rights: - Her film Yo soy Boricua, pa'que tu lo sepas! (I'm Puerto Rican, Just So You Know!) documents her activism. - She starred in and directed the Spanish AIDS PSA campaign "Join the Fight" for Cable Positive and Kismet Films. The campaign featured actor Wilmer Valderrama, BET's Julissa Bermudez, Telenovela actor Erick Elías, singer/actress Lorena Rojas, 2006–2007 Miss Universe Zuleyka Rivera and actress Judy Marte. An English-language campaign was also directed by Liev Schreiber. - US President Barack Obama appointed her to The Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS (PACHA). She was sworn in on February 2, 2010. - On January 6, 2000, she was arrested for disorderly conduct in Manhattan following a rally to protest against the U.S. Navy air weapons training, as well as other forms of payload on the government training range owned at Vieques, an island off the coast of Puerto Rico. - Perez serves as the chair of the artistic board for Partnership, a New York City arts education nonprofit that uses arts integrated education programs to close the achievement gap. Personal life Perez has suffered from high anxiety, PTSD, and depression, but with therapy, it has been greatly reduced. Perez married filmmaker and playwright Seth Zvi Rosenfeld in 1998. The couple divorced in 2001 after 3 years together. She married artist Eric Haze on September 15, 2013, in Las Vegas. They live in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn as of 2014.


--- [英語「grade」の意味・使い方・読み方 | Weblio英和辞書] ---
gradeとは 意味・読み方・使い方 追加できません (登録数上限) 意味・対訳 等級、階級、品等、グレード、度合い、程度、同一等級に属するもの、(小・中・高校の)学年、年級、同学年の全生徒 gradeの | gradeの | | gradeの | gradeの学習レベル | レベル：1英検：3級以上の単語学校レベル：中学以上の水準TOEIC® L&Rスコア：220点以上の単語 | 研究社 新英和中辞典での「grade」の意味 | | grade 1 可算名詞 | a high grade of intelligence 高度の知性. | a 可算名詞 (小・中・高校の)学年，年級 (《主に英国で用いられる》 form) 《★【解説】 通例 6‐3‐3 ないし 8‐4 学年制であるが，1 年級から 12 年級まで通して数える; なお，大学では用いない》. | The first grade was allowed to leave school early. 1年生は早く帰宅することを許された. | 3 可算名詞 《主に米国で用いられる》 (生徒の)成績(点), 評点，評価 《★【解説】 次の 5 段階評価が普通: A (Excellent 秀), B (Good 優), C (Fair，Average，Satisfactory 良), D (Passing 可), F (Failure 不可); D 以上が合格》. | at gráde | màke the gráde | | on the dówn [úp] gráde | | gráde dówn | gráde úp | - 履歴機能過去に調べた 単語を確認! - 語彙力診断診断回数が 増える! - マイ単語帳便利な 学習機能付き! - マイ例文帳文章で 単語を理解! Eゲイト英和辞典での「grade」の意味 | | grade 等級；程度；学年；成績；等級を付ける 名詞 2((米))（小・中・高校の）学年；((the ～))（ある学年の）全生徒（((英))form） 3((米))成績，評点（((英))mark） 4((the ～s))=『grade school』 5((米))（道路・鉄道などの）勾配（こうばい），斜面（((英))gradient） 成句at grade ((米))同一平面で 成句be on the up [down] grade 上り坂［下り坂］である 成句make the grade ((口))（仕事や試験で）必要な水準に達する，成功［及第］する 動詞 他動詞 自動詞 参考 米国では普通6歳で小学校に入学し6‐3‐3制，または8‐4制の教育を受ける．日本の中学1年に当たるのはthe seventh grade7年，高校1年に当たるのはthe tenth grade10年となる⇒school図 | 参考 米国の高校・大学ではExcellent (A), Very Good (B+), Good (B), Fair (C), Below Average (D), Failure (F)の成績評定が一般的．D以上が及第だが，Dを不可とする場合もある | マイクロソフト用語集での「grade」の意味 | | grade 対訳 グレード 解説 A rank or category assigned to a material resource that denotes functional use but not level of quality. A low-grade resource is not necessarily a low-quality resource. Wiktionary英語版での「grade」の意味 | grade 出典:『Wiktionary』 (2026/01/12 20:01 UTC 版) 語源 Borrowed from Middle French grade (“a grade, degree”), from Latin gradus (“a step, pace, degree”), from Proto-Italic *graðus, from Proto-Indo-European *gʰradʰ-, *gʰredʰ- (“to walk, go”). Doublet of gradus. Cognate with Gothic 𐌲𐍂𐌹𐌸𐍃 (griþs, “step, grade”), Bavarian Gritt (“step, stride”), Lithuanian gri̇̀diju (“to go, wander”). 発音 名詞 - A rating. - (chiefly Canada, US, Philippines) Performance on a test or other evaluation(s), expressed by a number, letter, or other symbol; a score. - A degree or level of something; a position within a scale; a degree of quality. - 1986–2012, paul wheaton permaculture, “Diatomaceous Earth (food grade): bug killer you can eat!”, in richsoil.com, retrieved 17 March 2014: - There are a lot of varieties of diatomaceous earth, so when you are shopping, be sure to get the right stuff! Make sure that you get food grade diatomaceous earth. Some people make 3% of the food they eat be diatomaceous earth. - - - (linguistics) Degree (any of the three stages (positive, comparative, superlative) in the comparison of an adjective or an adverb). - A slope (up or down) of a roadway or other passage - (Canada, US, Philippines, education) A level of primary and secondary education. - (Canada, education) A student of a particular grade (used with the grade level). - An area that has been flattened by a grader (construction machine). - The level of the ground. - (mathematics) A gradian. - (geometry) In a linear system of divisors on an n-dimensional variety, the number of free intersection points of n generic divisors. - A harsh scraping or cutting; a grating. - (systematics) A taxon united by a level of morphological or physiological complexity that is not a clade. - (medicine) The degree of malignity of a tumor expressed on a scale. - (Philippines, ophthalmology) An eyeglass prescription. 動詞 grade (third-person singular simple present grades, present participle grading, simple past and past participle graded) - (chiefly Canada, US) To assign scores to the components of an academic test, or to overall academic performance. - To organize in grades. - To flatten, level, or smooth a large surface, especially with a grader. - (sewing) To remove or trim part of a seam allowance from a finished seam so as to reduce bulk and make the finished piece more even when turned right side out. - (patternmaking) To increase or decrease the dimensions of a garment pattern from the initial base size in such a way that the overall proportions of the silhouette are maintained across all sizes. - To apply classifying labels to data (typically by a manual rather than automatic process). - (linguistics) To describe, modify or inflect so as to classify as to degree. - 1999, Jon Franco, Alazne Landa, Juan Martín, Grammatical Analyses in Basque and Romance Linguistics: Papers in Honor of Mario Saltarelli, John Benjamins Publishing, →ISBN, page 65: - He has rightly observed that while -ísimo superlatives are typically prenominal, adjectives graded with the intensifier muy "very" are characteristically postnominal. - - 2014, Angela Downing, English Grammar: A University Course, Routledge, →ISBN, page 430: - Adjectives graded for comparative and superlative degree can function both attributively and predicatively. Most descriptive adjectives are gradable: As modifiers of a noun Have you got a larger size? […] - - - (intransitive) To pass imperceptibly from one grade into another. - (Canada, dated, intransitive) To pass from one school grade into the next. 派生語 - 0th grade - 10th grade - 11th grade - 12th grade - 13th grade - 1st grade - 2nd grade - 3rd grade - 4th grade - 5th grade - 6th grade - 7th grade - 8th grade - 9th grade - age grade - aggrade - A-grade - at-grade - at grade - beyond one's pay grade - bigrade - centigrade - C-grade - consumer-grade - cross-grade - decigrade - disgrade - downgrade - e-grade - eighth grade - eleventh grade - field grade - fifth grade - first grade - food-grade - fourth grade - full-grade - gradability - gradable - grade 0 - grade 1 - grade 10 - grade 11 - grade 12 - grade 13 - grade 2 - grade 3 - grade 4 - grade 5 - grade 6 - grade 7 - grade 8 - grade 9 - grade-A - gradebook - grade cricket - grade crossing - gradee - grade eight - grade eleven - grade five - grade four - grade-grub - grade grubber - grade grubbing - grade inflation - gradeless - grade line - grade nine - grade on a curve - grade one - grade point - grade point average - grader - grade school - grade-separated - grade seven - grade six - grade sixer - grade system - grade-taking - grade ten - grade thirteen - grade thirteener - grade three - grade twelve - grade two - gradewide - grade zero - gradient - helper grade - high-grade - industrial-grade - intergrade - lengthened grade - letter grade - lieutenant junior grade - low-grade - low grade - low-grade fever - make the grade - meibograde - midgrade - military grade - milligrade - misgrade - monograde - multigrade - ninth grade - o-grade - orthograde - outgrade - overgrade - passing grade - paygrade - pay grade - pharmaceutical grade - quadrigrade - rear admiral junior grade - regrade - reserve grade - ruling grade - sashimi grade - second grade - seventh grade - sixth grade - slab on grade - subgrade - sushi grade - tenth grade - third grade - thirteenth grade - top-grade - twelfth grade - undergrade - upgrade - vanishing grade - weapons-grade - weapons-grade uranium - zero-grade - zero grade - zeroth grade -grade Weblio例文辞書での「grade」に類似した例文 | | grade the characteristic of dignity and grace かぞえること a rope the first class―the first grade a score the positive degree the accusative case 「grade」を含む例文一覧 該当件数 : 7269件 a commercial grade of beef発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 徳用の牛肉. - 研究社 新英和中辞典 a high grade of intelligence発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 高度の知性. - 研究社 新英和中辞典 the order of merit and grade発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 勲等と位階 - EDR日英対訳辞書 the grade of quality or ability of someone or something発音を聞く 例文帳に追加 等級 - EDR日英対訳辞書 | 1 2 4 5 10 | | | gradeのページの著作権 英和辞典 情報提供元は 参加元一覧 にて確認できます。 | Copyright (c) 1995-2026 Kenkyusha Co., Ltd. All rights reserved. | | | Copyright © Benesse Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved. | | | © 2000 - 2026 Hyper Dictionary, All rights reserved | | | © 2026 Microsoft | | | Copyright (C) 1994- Nichigai Associates, Inc., All rights reserved. | | | Copyright (C) 2026 安藤設計事務所 All rights reserved. | | | ※この記事は「日本法令外国語訳データベースシステム」の2010年1月現在の情報を転載しております。 | | | DBCLS Home Page by DBCLS is licensed under a Creative Commons 表示 2.1 日本 License. | | | All Rights Reserved, Copyright © Japan Science and Technology Agency | | | Copyright (C) 2026 日本図学会 All rights reserved. | | | ※この記事は「原子力資料情報室（CNIC）」ホームページ内の「脱原発のための和英小辞典」の情報を転載しております。 | | | Copyright ©2004-2026 Translational Research Informatics Center. All Rights Reserved. 財団法人先端医療振興財団 臨床研究情報センター | | | Copyright (C) 2026 ライフサイエンス辞書プロジェクト | | | 日本語ワードネット1.1版 (C) 情報通信研究機構, 2009-2010 License All rights reserved. WordNet 3.0 Copyright 2006 by Princeton University. All rights reserved. License | | | Copyright(C)2002-2026 National Institute of Information and Communications Technology. All Rights Reserved. | | | Copyright © 2026 CJKI. All Rights Reserved | | | Copyright (C) 1994- Nichigai Associates, Inc., All rights reserved. 「斎藤和英大辞典」斎藤秀三郎著、日外アソシエーツ辞書編集部編 | | | Text is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (CC-BY-SA) and/or GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). Weblio英和・和英辞典に掲載されている「Wiktionary英語版」の記事は、Wiktionaryのgrade (改訂履歴)、-grade (改訂履歴)の記事を複製、再配布したものにあたり、Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (CC-BY-SA)もしくはGNU Free Documentation Licenseというライセンスの下で提供されています。 | | | CMUdict | CMUdict is Copyright (C) 1993-2008 by Carnegie Mellon University. | ピン留めアイコンをクリックすると単語とその意味を画面の右側に残しておくことができます。 | | ログイン | Weblio会員(無料)になると 検索履歴を保存できる！ 語彙力診断の実施回数増加！ | weblioのその他のサービス | ログイン | Weblio会員(無料)になると 検索履歴を保存できる！ 語彙力診断の実施回数増加！ |


--- [Rosie Perez - grokipedia.com] ---
Rosa Maria "Rosie" Perez (born September 6, 1964) is an American actress, choreographer, dancer, and director (1983–present) of Puerto Rican descent, recognized for her energetic screen presence and contributions to urban dance and film.[1] Born in Bushwick, Brooklyn, to Lydia Perez and merchant marine Ismael Serrano, Perez began her career as a dancer on Soul Train before gaining prominence as a choreographer for the Fox sketch comedy series In Living Color (1990–1994), earning three Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Choreography.[1][2] Her acting breakthrough arrived with the role of Tina in Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing (1989), followed by notable performances in films such as White Men Can't Jump (1992) and It Could Happen to You (1994), which highlighted her as a leading Latina voice in Hollywood during the early 1990s.[1] Perez later expanded into television with a Golden Globe-nominated role as Detective Carla Esposito in NYPD Blue (1993–1995) and directing the documentary Yo soy Boricua! Pa' que tú lo sepas... (I'm Puerto Rican, Just So You Know!) (2006), while continuing to advocate for arts education and Puerto Rican heritage.[1] Early Life Childhood and Family Background Rosa María Perez was born on September 6, 1964, in the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York City, to Lydia Pérez (née Fontañez), a Puerto Rican woman with a history of mental illness, and Ismael Serrano, a merchant marine seaman of Puerto Rican descent.[1][3] Her mother was married to Ventura Pérez at the time of her birth but conceived Rosie through an extramarital affair with Serrano.[3]Perez grew up amid significant family instability, with nine siblings who were frequently separated due to their mother's intermittent incarcerations and mental health challenges.[4] By 1999, Lydia Pérez was living in poverty in the Woodside Houses and died that year from AIDS-related complications.[5] She gave birth to her youngest child while imprisoned and often left her children in the care of relatives or institutions. At age three, after a brief period raised by a loving aunt, Perez's mother abruptly placed her in a Catholic children's home in Westchester County, New York, marking the start of her time as a ward of the state until age 12.[6][7] She received a strict Catholic upbringing, crediting the influence of the nuns during this period. In third grade, Perez learned she had a speech impediment.She was transferred to a group foster home and lived in placements in New York and Peekskill until age eight, after which she moved in with her paternal aunt Ana Dominga Otero Serrano-Roque. Much of Perez's early years involved cycling through foster homes, group homes, and the aforementioned children's home, with limited but regular visits from her mother and aunt.[8] Her biological father attempted to gain custody but was unsuccessful, leaving Perez without consistent parental oversight amid these disruptions.[8] This environment, characterized by separation from siblings and institutional care, contributed to a challenging upbringing in a Puerto Rican-American family context marked by poverty and maternal instability.[4] Education and Formative Experiences Perez attended Grover Cleveland High School in Ridgewood, Queens, New York, during her teenage years.[1][9]Following high school, she relocated to Los Angeles at age 19 to assist a cousin with childcare while pursuing higher education, enrolling at Los Angeles City College to study biochemistry.[10] While there, Perez balanced academic demands with stress-relief activities by attending ladies' nights at nightclubs, where a talent scout noticed her and invited her to appear on the television program Soul Train in the early 1980s, although she was not a professional dancer beforehand.[11] Her passion for dancing on Soul Train led her to drop out of college. This pivot from scientific studies to performance marked a formative shift, as her biochemistry aspirations gave way to opportunities in dance and choreography.[12]Her early life in Bushwick, Brooklyn, profoundly shaped her resilience amid familial instability; her parents separated shortly after her birth in 1964, leading to periods of care by an aunt, followed by placement in group homes and foster care due to her mother's mental health challenges and incarceration.[13] Experiencing physical abuse, neglect, and frequent relocations, including time in a convent for abandoned children starting at age 8, Perez described becoming introverted, angry, and withdrawn, masking inner sadness with a class-clown persona at school.[7][14] These adversities instilled a drive to reject imposed limitations, fostering self-reliance that propelled her from unstable beginnings toward professional pursuits in entertainment.[13] Career Dance and Choreography Origins Perez, born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1964 to Puerto Rican parents, developed an early interest in dance through informal, self-taught practices influenced by street and club culture rather than structured training.[4] While pursuing a biochemistry degree at Los Angeles City College in the early 1980s, she relocated to California to support a family member, where her professional dance entry—and first entertainment job—occurred at age 19 as a featured dancer on the syndicated music program Soul Train starting in the early 1980s, though she was not a professional dancer prior to being invited by a talent scout.[15]Her breakthrough came via an impromptu nightclub performance in Los Angeles, where a Soul Train scout spotted her distinctive, high-energy style blending hip-hop rhythms with Latin flair, leading to her role on the program.[15][4] On Soul Train, Perez appeared in numerous episodes, performing group routines and line dances that highlighted her freestyle agility and crowd engagement, contributing to the show's reputation for showcasing authentic urban dance trends.[15]This exposure facilitated her pivot to choreography around the mid-1980s, with her initial professional credits including routines for singer Bobby Brown's music videos and live appearances, where she adapted club-derived movements into synchronized group performances.[15] Building on this, Perez choreographed for high-profile acts such as LL Cool J and Diana Ross, emphasizing precise, narrative-driven sequences that integrated her untrained yet intuitive approach to rhythm and body mechanics.[8] Her work extended to television, notably creating the dynamic ensembles for the Fly Girls dance troupe on In Living Color starting in 1990, which popularized hip-hop-infused sketches and solidified her influence in early 1990s music and comedy visuals.[16] Television Debut and Sketch Comedy Era Perez began her television career as a dancer on the syndicated music and dance program Soul Train in the early 1980s, debuting at age 19 after being scouted at a Los Angeles nightclub while assisting a cousin.[15][17] As a student at Los Angeles City College intending to major in theology, she performed energetic hip-hop routines, including in the show's signature "Soul Train Line" segments, such as during Whitney Houston's 1987 appearance promoting "So Emotional."[18][19] Her Soul Train work, spanning the mid-1980s, marked her initial national exposure in entertainment, leveraging her background in street dance from Brooklyn clubs.[19][20]Transitioning into choreography, Perez joined the Fox sketch comedy series In Living Color in 1990 as the lead choreographer for the Fly Girls, the all-female dance troupe that opened episodes and transitioned between satirical sketches.[16][21] Created by Keenen Ivory Wayans and airing from April 15, 1990, to May 19, 1994, the program featured over 120 episodes of fast-paced, culturally pointed humor targeting African American experiences, with recurring characters like Homey D. Clown and Fire Marshal Bill.[16] Perez's choreography emphasized hip-hop and urban styles, integrating seamlessly with the show's high-energy format and helping define the Fly Girls' role in punctuating the comedy.[22][21]During In Living Color's first season, Perez's direction of the troupe, which included dancers like Deidre Lang, contributed to the segments' appeal amid the show's breakthrough ratings, averaging 7-10 million viewers per episode in its debut year.[23] Her involvement extended to early promotional featurettes highlighting the Fly Girls' precision and flair, though she did not perform as a dancer on the series.[24] This period solidified her reputation in television production, bridging her Soul Train dancing roots to behind-the-scenes creative influence in sketch comedy's competitive landscape of the early 1990s.[16] Film Breakthrough and Major Roles In 1988, at age 23, Spike Lee noticed Perez at the Funky Reggae dance club, leading to her casting for her first major acting role. Perez achieved her film acting breakthrough with the role of Tina in Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing (1989), portraying the Puerto Rican girlfriend of protagonist Mookie, played by Lee himself.[25] Her debut featured prominently in the film's opening sequence, where she danced energetically to Public Enemy's "Fight the Power," a moment that showcased her background as a choreographer and helped establish her as a dynamic presence.[26] The independent production, set in a Brooklyn neighborhood amid racial tensions, received critical acclaim and two Academy Award nominations, with Perez's raw, streetwise performance drawing attention for its authenticity rooted in her Bushwick upbringing.[27]Following this debut, Perez's early television work included the role of Denise Moore in the 1990 TV movie Criminal Justice. She landed her first major leading role as Gloria Clemente in the sports comedy White Men Can't Jump (1992), directed by Ron Shelton.[28] She played the feisty, trivia-obsessed partner of Woody Harrelson's streetball hustler, opposite Wesley Snipes, delivering rapid-fire dialogue and comedic intensity that highlighted her verbal agility and screen charisma.[26] The film, which explored interracial dynamics through pickup basketball games in Los Angeles, became a box-office success and cultural touchstone for 1990s urban comedies, with Perez's portrayal earning her an Independent Spirit Award nomination for Best Supporting Female.[27]Perez continued with significant roles in the 1990s, including Carla Rodrigo in Peter Weir's drama Fearless (1993), where she depicted a grieving mother and plane crash survivor grappling with trauma alongside Jeff Bridges.[26] Her performance in the film, which examined survivor's guilt and psychological recovery, received praise for its emotional depth, contributing to the movie's National Board of Review recognition. In It Could Happen to You (1994), she portrayed Muriel Ebbs, a lottery-winning waitress in a romantic comedy-drama inspired by real events, opposite Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda, and Mercedes in Somebody to Love (1994), further solidifying her versatility in ensemble casts.[29] These roles marked her transition from supporting parts to more prominent characters, often emphasizing resilient working-class women from Latino backgrounds. Later Career: Directing, Hosting, and Television Revival In the early 2000s, Perez appeared on Broadway, serving as a replacement for Frankie in Terrence McNally's "Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune" at the Belasco Theatre in 2002, performing the roles of Pooty and Sue in Craig Lucas's "Reckless" at the Biltmore Theatre in 2004, and in Terrence McNally's "The Ritz" in the 2007 revival at Studio 54. Perez transitioned into directing with her co-direction of the 2006 documentary Yo soy Boricua, pa'que tu lo sepas!, alongside Liz Garbus, which premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival and examines Puerto Rican cultural pride, historical struggles, and identity through the New York Puerto Rican Day Parade and Perez's exploration of her heritage.[30][31] The film, distributed by Netflix, features interviews with historians and activists, highlighting events like the Ponce Massacre of 1937 and Pedro Albizu Campos's independence efforts, while addressing the diaspora’s complex relationship with the island.[32] Prior to this feature-length debut, Perez had directed music videos, a short film for Canal Plus, and a Spanish-language AIDS public service announcement titled "Join the Fight" for Cable Positive and Kismet Films.[33]In 2014, Perez, initially hesitant due to not wanting to join a show featuring disrespectful screaming, was convinced to serve as a co-host on ABC's The View during its 18th season, starting September 15, after learning that Bill Wolff, whom she knew from The Rachel Maddow Show, would be the new executive producer, marking her as the program's first permanent Latina co-host alongside Whoopi Goldberg, Rosie O'Donnell, and Nicolle Wallace.[34][35] Her tenure, which emphasized diverse viewpoints on current events and pop culture, ended in early August 2015 after one season, with Perez announcing her departure on July 8, 2015, citing a desire to return to acting amid reported backstage tensions.[36][37]In 2015, Perez returned to Broadway, starring in Larry David's play Fish in the Dark. Perez's later television appearances included a series regular role as Tracey Wolfe, a school administrator, in the NBC musical drama Rise, which aired 10 episodes from March to May 2018 before cancellation due to low ratings. She also appeared as Megan Briscoe (main cast, 2020–2022) in the HBO Max series The Flight Attendant and appeared in season 2 of Showtime's Your Honor (2020) as a supporting character, contributing to her sustained visibility in scripted programming after a period focused on film and hosting. In 2024, Perez served as an official commentator for the Jake Paul vs. Mike Tyson boxing match broadcast. These roles, alongside voice work in animated series like Dora the Explorer, reflect a revival through ensemble casts in prestige cable and streaming formats rather than lead features.[26][38] Activism and Public Advocacy AIDS Awareness and Health Campaigns Rosie Perez entered HIV/AIDS activism in the 1980s amid the epidemic's early impact in New York City, where she grew up, initially lecturing in inner-city high schools to highlight alarming infection statistics among youth and promote education to combat ignorance.[39][40] She emphasized prevention through open discussion, drawing from firsthand observations of the crisis's disproportionate effects on marginalized communities.[41]In the 1990s, Perez starred in and directed the Spanish-language public service announcement (PSA) campaign "Join the Fight" for Cable Positive and Kismet Films, aimed at raising awareness and encouraging action against HIV transmission within Latino audiences.[42][43] This effort focused on culturally tailored messaging to address barriers like stigma and limited access to information, though its measurable impact on infection rates remains undocumented in public records.Perez's advocacy expanded federally when President Barack Obama appointed her to the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS (PACHA) in 2010, where she contributed to policy discussions on treatment access, prevention strategies, and pathogenesiseducation.[44][45] During her tenure, she participated in international demonstrations, such as the 2011 International AIDS Conference protest demanding universal HIV treatment and comprehensive prevention, underscoring demands for evidence-based interventions over unfulfilled commitments.[45]Later efforts included hosting the AIDS Healthcare Foundation's "Keep the Promise" concert on World AIDS Day 2016, featuring performers to amplify calls for sustained funding and global access to antiretrovirals, and voicing a 2023 PSA for God's Love We Deliver, an organization founded in response to the AIDS crisis to provide meals and support services.[46][47] In 2015, the Brooklyn AIDS Task Force honored her for ongoing HIVeducation work, recognizing her role in destigmatizing the disease through public speaking and media appearances.[48] Her campaigns consistently prioritized empirical approaches like data-driven lecturing and policy advocacy, though critiques note that celebrity-driven PSAs often prioritize visibility over rigorous outcome evaluation.[41] Latino Representation and Cultural Advocacy Perez has consistently criticized the entertainment industry's insufficient representation of Latinos, describing it in a March 2023 interview as "sucks" and noting that Latinos remain the most underrepresented demographic in Hollywood despite comprising 19% of the U.S. population.[49][50] She argued that even when Latino stories are greenlit, they are frequently altered by executives lacking cultural knowledge, resulting in diluted narratives that fail to reflect authentic experiences.[49][51]As an advocate, Perez has pushed for expanded opportunities for Latinos to helm culturally specific projects, emphasizing in 2023 that audiences seek films and shows rooted in Latino specificity rather than generic appeals.[52] Her own breakthrough roles, such as in Do the Right Thing (1989), contributed to early visibility for Afro-Latinas, challenging stereotypes and broadening perceptions of Latino identity in media.[53] In 2014, she became the first permanent Latina co-host on The View, a milestone that amplified Latino voices on daytime television amid broader discussions of diversity in broadcasting.[54]Perez has addressed intra-community cultural issues, including colorism, during a 2018 town hall, asserting that Latinos must actively dismantle biases that perpetuate exclusion within their own groups to foster genuine representation.[55] Her efforts earned her the Hispanic Heritage Award for Leadership from the Hispanic Heritage Foundation in September 2025, where she delivered a speech urging fearless activism and community solidarity, stating, "We do not have time to waste, and we do not have the privilege to be fearful."[56][57] This recognition highlighted her role in promoting Latino cultural legacy through media and public platforms.[58] Women's Rights and Feminist Positions Rosie Perez has critiqued mainstream feminist movements for historically excluding women of color, arguing in an April 2023 speech at Variety's Power of Women event in New York that the fight for equality must explicitly include them to avoid repeating past mistakes.[59] She emphasized that feminist progress requires addressing intersectional barriers faced by minority women, drawing from her own experiences as a Latina in entertainment.[60]In the entertainment industry, Perez has advocated for expanded opportunities for women of color, particularly those over 40, highlighting the scarcity of substantive roles beyond stereotypes and the pervasive sexism limiting their careers.[61] She described battling "racism, sexism, and every other 'ism'" in Hollywood during a January 2016 panel, attributing these challenges to a male-dominated structure that marginalizes non-white women.[62] At the 2016 Tribeca Film Festival's Daring Women's Summit, she addressed diversity deficits and the pressure to portray reductive ethnic tropes, positioning these as core women's rights issues intertwined with cultural representation.[63]Perez supports access to abortion, voicing opposition to bans in a May 2022 Wall Street Journal interview where she warned that restricting the procedure would increase unwanted children and called on men to actively defend reproductive rights as a personal issue.[64] She has participated in discussions framing abortion access as essential to women's autonomy, aligning with Democratic figures like Representative Nydia Velázquez in September 2024 commentary on post-Roe threats.[65] Her advocacy ties reproductive freedoms to broader stability, influenced by her upbringing in institutional care amid family instability.[66]Perez has shared personal encounters with patriarchal structures and abuse, including childhood mistreatment by nuns that contributed to lasting PTSD, framing these as emblematic of systemic gender-based harms women endure.[66] In a 2014interview, she discussed surviving domestic abuse, using her platform to underscore resilience against violence without detailing organized campaigns on the issue.[67] Her endorsements, such as for Hillary Clinton in 2016, reflect support for politicians advancing women's medical and equality benefits.[68] Political Engagements and Endorsements Perez has consistently aligned with Democratic candidates in U.S. presidential elections. She campaigned for Barack Obama in Florida during the 2008 election, appearing alongside Representative Nydia Velázquez in outreach efforts targeting Hispanic voters.[69][70] In 2012, she publicly criticized Republican nominee Mitt Romney for remarks suggesting that being Latino would be "helpful" in business, framing them as dismissive of immigrant struggles.[71]During the 2016 presidential cycle, Perez endorsed Hillary Clinton, emphasizing Clinton's readiness to lead "on day one" and her advocacy for children's medical rights and benefits.[72][73] She participated in Democratic National Convention events and produced content opposing Donald Trump, including defending celebrity anti-Trump videos as effective mobilization tools despite conservative backlash.[74][75] However, she expressed frustration with Clinton's handling of Puerto Rico's debt crisis, highlighting a tension between her endorsement and specific policy concerns.[76]Perez continued Democratic support in subsequent elections. In 2022, she spoke at events backing New York Governor Kathy Hochul's re-election campaign.[77] Ahead of the 2024 election, she rallied for Vice President Kamala Harris in Allentown, Pennsylvania, focusing on mobilizing Latino voters, and condemned remarks about Puerto Rico made at a Trump campaign event in Madison Square Garden.[78][79] Her engagements often intersect with her Puerto Rican heritage, prioritizing issues like Latino representation, though she has urged voters to prioritize candidates advancing broad democratic interests over narrow group appeals.[80] Criticisms and Empirical Shortcomings of Advocacy Efforts In 1993, Perez faced backlash from Mexicanos Unidos en Norteamericana, a Los Angeles-based Mexican-American rights group, after comments she made in Vibe magazine about inter-ethnic dynamics among Latino subgroups. She stated that "Mexicans think Puerto Ricans are different," "Cubans look down on everybody," "Mexicans hate Puerto Ricans," and "Brazilians are above Mexicans," in the context of discussing divisions within the broader Hispanic community.[81] The group described the remarks as "divisive and highly offensive to all Latinos and Mexican-Americans in particular," arguing they undermined efforts toward unity in advocacy for shared rights and representation. No public apology from Perez was issued, and the incident underscored criticisms that her commentary, while drawing from observed cultural frictions, risked perpetuating stereotypes rather than fostering coalition-building essential for effective Latino advocacy.[81]Perez's high-profile involvement in the Vieques protests against U.S. Navy bombing exercises, including her arrest for disorderly conduct on January 6, 2000, during a rally outside the United Nations, contributed to the campaign that pressured the Navy to cease operations by May 2003.[43] However, empirical outcomes post-closure revealed shortcomings in the anticipated socioeconomic benefits. Unemployment on Vieques surged to nearly 20% by 2013, up from lower pre-closure levels, amid reliance on an unreliable ferry system and failure to achieve promised eco-tourism booms.[82] Economic activity declined sharply, with the island losing associated military-related jobs and infrastructure support, exacerbating poverty rates that remained higher than Puerto Rico's mainland average into the 2010s, as cleanup costs for unexploded ordnance and contamination extended without commensurate development gains.[83] Critics, including some local economists, contended that the advocacy's focus on eviction overlooked the Navy's role in providing indirect economic stability, leading to unintended hardships that persisted despite the environmental victory.[84]Broader critiques of Perez's advocacy efforts highlight limited measurable impacts in areas like Latino representation in media, where Hispanics comprise about 19% of the U.S. population but held only 5-8% of speaking roles in top films from 2007-2022, per USC Annenberg Inclusion Initiative data, suggesting celebrity-driven calls for change have not substantially altered industry hiring patterns. Similarly, in AIDS awareness campaigns since the 1990s, despite her PSAs and council roles, HIV diagnosis rates among Latinos remain disproportionately high at 22% of new U.S. cases annually (versus 19% population share), with CDC data indicating persistent gaps in prevention efficacy tied to socioeconomic factors unaddressed by awareness alone. These patterns reflect challenges in translating high-visibility advocacy into causal reductions in disparities, often due to reliance on public messaging over structural interventions. Personal Life Relationships and Marriages Perez was first married to playwright and filmmaker Seth Zvi Rosenfeld on July 10, 1999, in Brooklyn, New York.[85] The couple's relationship reportedly began in the early 1990s, though exact timelines vary across accounts, and they divorced in 2001 after approximately two years of marriage.[86][87]In September 2013, Perez married artist and graphic designer Eric Haze in an impromptu ceremony in Las Vegas, Nevada, shortly after attending a Floyd Mayweather boxing match; the decision stemmed from a spontaneous bet or moment of realization during the event.[88][89] The wedding occurred on September 15, 2013, marking Perez's second marriage.[90] Haze, known for his work in graffiti art and collaborations with brands like Jimmy Choo, had crossed paths with Perez multiple times in New York social circles prior to their romance solidifying, with Perez later recounting in interviews that they "met eight times for the first time" before connecting meaningfully.[86] The couple maintains a relatively private life; as of 2014, they lived in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, occasionally appearing together at art events, and marked their 12th anniversary in 2025 without reported separations.[91]Prior to her marriages, Perez had a brief romantic involvement with rapper Tupac Shakur in 1993, which she has described as short-lived and connected to their shared professional circles, including her role in facilitating Shakur's interest in Madonna.[92]No children have resulted from Perez's relationships.[86] Family Dynamics and Parenting Perez was born on September 6, 1964, in Brooklyn, New York, to Puerto Rican parents Lydia Perez, a singer, and Ismael Serrano, a merchant marine; her birth resulted from her mother's affair with Serrano after Lydia had already borne five children from a prior marriage to Ventura Perez.[93][1] As one of ten siblings in total, Perez experienced profound family instability from early childhood, with her mother diagnosed later in life as schizophrenic and intermittently incarcerated, leading to the children being raised variously by relatives, in group homes, and foster care systems.[4] Siblings were frequently separated, and Perez herself was placed in a Catholic group home at age three after her mother removed her from a stable aunt's care, enduring harsh conditions under a strict nun, Sister Renata, whom she later described in her 2014 memoir as abusive.[94] These dynamics fostered resilience but also trauma, including two instances of sexual assault by a brother during visits to her mother's home.[8]The absence of consistent parental oversight contributed to Perez's emphasis on stability in her adult reflections, contrasting sharply with her childhood's chaos; she has credited achieving a "loving home" in her marriage to artist Eric Haze since 2013 as fulfilling a long-held dream born from early deprivation.[4][95] Perez has no biological children from her two marriages—first to playwright Seth Zvi Rosenfeld from 1999 to 2001, then to Haze—and in 2015 expressed regret over not freezing her eggs earlier, viewing adoption as a potential alternative while acknowledging the unlikelihood of parenthood given her career and life choices.[96][1] Her foster care experiences inform her advocacy for system reforms, as seen in her 2024 role in the series Before, where she portrayed a foster parent and drew from personal history to highlight institutional shortcomings in providing secure attachments.[97]In September 2025, Perez discussed enjoying grandmotherly duties with a four-year-old grandson, including bedtime routines that occasionally overextend into play, requiring intervention from the child's mother—her daughter-in-law—indicating indirect involvement in familyparenting dynamics through an adult child, though details on this offspring remain unpublicized in prior biographical accounts.[98] This role aligns with her expressed value of familial bonds, tempered by her own disrupted upbringing, which she has framed as a motivator for breaking cycles of instability rather than replicating traditional parenting.[99] Health Challenges and Personal Resilience Rosie Perez endured profound childhood trauma that contributed to later mental health challenges, including a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Born in Brooklyn to a mother with untreated schizophrenia who faced intermittent incarceration, Perez was placed in a Catholic group home at age two and later transferred to a convent in Peekskill, New York, where she remained as a ward of the state from ages three to twelve, experiencing neglect, inconsistent family contact, and emotional instability.[4][100] She learned of her mother's diagnosis around ages ten or eleven from a social worker, amid visits marked by her mother's unreliability.[4]These experiences manifested in PTSD, characterized by emotional and physical scars, depression, and resistance to the diagnosis itself, which Perez initially described as feeling like it "sucked" due to her self-perception as resilient and forward-moving.[100] Untreated anxiety, also rooted in this Dickensian upbringing of foster care and abuse, further compounded issues, exhausting her during acting performances by forcing her to conceal inner turmoil despite professional success.[101] In December 2020, while filming The Flight Attendant in Bangkok, Perez contracted COVID-19, suffering a severe respiratory infection that required ICU hospitalization, set-doctor intervention, and quarantine, with CDC confirmation following a month later.[102]Perez demonstrated resilience through sustained therapy, which she pursued after years of denial, yielding significant relief within a couple of years by providing tools to process trauma and manage anxiety, ultimately enhancing her emotional delivery in roles.[100][101] She equated mental health treatment to routine physical care, stating, "You get a headache, you take a Tylenol… It’s the same thing for your mental health," and credited it with removing performance barriers that had previously bled into her work.[101] This therapeutic commitment informed her 2014 memoir, Handbook for an Unpredictable Life, a candid reckoning with her past that facilitated acceptance of PTSD as integral to her narrative.[100] Post-COVID, she adapted to rigorous protocols like daily testing and PPE to resume production, preserving the series' integrity.[102] Ultimately, Perez channeled early adversity into a stable adulthood, prioritizing marriage and domestic security over fame, which she deemed "priceless" amid her entertainment achievements.[4] Awards and Honors Entertainment Industry Recognitions Perez received an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of Carla Rodrigo in the 1993 drama film Fearless, directed by Peter Weir.[103] This performance also earned her a Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Actress in a Supporting Role at the 51st Golden Globe Awards held on January 15, 1994.[104] Critics praised her work, leading to wins including the Boston Society of Film Critics Award for Best Supporting Actress and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress, both awarded in 1993.[105]Her choreography for the Fox sketch comedy series In Living Color (1990–1994) brought three Primetime Emmy Award nominations in the category of Outstanding Individual Achievement in Choreography, recognizing her direction of the "Fly Girls" dance troupe.[2] Specific nominations occurred in 1991, 1992, and 1993 for episodes featuring her innovative hip-hop and street dance routines.[106]In recent years, Perez earned a Primetime Emmy nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series for her role as Megan "Meg" Hall in the HBO Max series The Flight Attendant (2020–2022), announced on July 13, 2021.[2] In 2021, she received the NHMC Impact Award for Outstanding Performance in a Series.[103] She has accumulated additional nominations from organizations such as the Screen Actors Guild for ensemble casts in films like White Men Can't Jump (1992) and ALMA Awards for performances in series including Lipstick Jungle (2008). In June 2013, Perez served as grand marshal for the International Boxing Hall of Fame parade in Canastota, New York.[103] Activism and Community Service Awards Perez has been recognized for her activism in areas such as HIV/AIDS awareness, Latino community advocacy, and public health education through targeted honors from nonprofit organizations and cultural foundations.[42][56]In 2021, the Hollywood Critics Association presented Perez with the Latino Activism Award, citing her sustained efforts in promoting social justice and cultural representation for Latino communities.[103]On December 1, 2015, the Brooklyn AIDS Task Force honored Perez at a gala in Downtown Brooklyn for her work in HIV prevention and education, including initiatives that reached underserved populations in the borough.[48]In May 2025, the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation awarded her the Elizabeth Taylor Legacy Award at its third annual New York gala, recognizing her three decades of advocacy during the AIDS crisis, such as producing awareness campaigns and supporting affected individuals; the award was presented by Whoopi Goldberg.[107]Later in 2025, on September 18, the Hispanic Heritage Foundation bestowed the Leadership Award upon Perez during its annual ceremony, honoring her creation of Spanish-language public service announcements for the Latino community on health issues and her broader role in fostering cultural legacy and fearless activism.[56][108] Published Works Autobiographical Writings In 2014, Rosie Perez published her memoirHandbook for an Unpredictable Life: How I Survived Sister Renata and My Crazy Mother, and Still Came Out Smiling (with Great Hair) (ISBN 978-0-307-95239-4), which chronicles her challenging upbringing in Brooklyn, New York, including time spent as a ward of the state in a Catholic children's home under the strict oversight of nuns like Sister Renata. Initially conceived as a book analyzing the causes and effects of child abuse, it evolved into a personal autobiography.[109] The book details experiences of abuse, neglect, and family instability, such as her mother's mental health struggles and frequent absences, juxtaposed against Perez's eventual breakthroughs in choreography, acting, and Hollywood. Released by Crown Archetype in New York on February 25, 2014, the work spans her transition from the vibrant but turbulent streets of Brooklyn to professional successes, including her Soul Train dance appearances and film roles, framed as a narrative of resilience and self-determination.[110]Perez's writing emphasizes personal anecdotes over broader social analysis, drawing on first-hand recollections to illustrate causal factors in her development, such as the impact of institutional care on her early worldview and the role of mentorship in her career pivot to entertainment.[111] The memoir includes reflections on specific incidents, like surviving physical discipline from nuns and navigating her mother's unpredictable behavior, which Perez attributes to untreated mental illness rather than external socioeconomic forces alone.[6] Perez later described the experience of writing the book as cathartic about six months after its publication, upon receiving responses from readers. No additional autobiographical books by Perez have been published, positioning this as her primary personal literary contribution, available in print, audiobook (narrated by Perez herself), and subsequent editions.[112] Filmography and Media Contributions Feature Films Rosie Perez entered feature films with a breakthrough role as Tina, the sharp-tongued girlfriend of Mookie (Spike Lee) in Do the Right Thing (1989), directed by Spike Lee, which depicted racial tensions in a Brooklyn neighborhood on a hot summer day.[113] This performance established her as a dynamic presence in independent cinema.[114] In Night on Earth (1991), an anthology film by Jim Jarmusch, Perez appeared in the New York segment as Angela, a talkative aspiring actress sharing a taxi ride with a casting agent. Perez's role as Gloria Clemente, the street-smart love interest to Wesley Snipes's character in the basketball comedy White Men Can't Jump (1992), showcased her comedic flair and earned positive reviews for her chemistry with co-stars Snipes and Woody Harrelson.[115] Her portrayal of Carla Rodrigo, a Puerto Rican mother grappling with survivor's guilt after a plane crash, in Peter Weir's Fearless (1993) opposite Jeff Bridges, brought her critical acclaim and an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress.[116][26] Additional roles include Cindy in the romantic drama Untamed Heart (1993), Muriel in the fantasy romance It Could Happen to You (1994), Paula in Somebody to Love (1994), the titular character in Perdita Durango (1997) opposite Javier Bardem, where scenes of violence, sex, and nudity were edited out of the United States release but remained intact in Latin American versions, Debbie in A Brother's Kiss (1997), and Ginger in Louis & Frank (1998).[29][117][118][119] In later years, Perez voiced the adventurous Chel in the animated The Road to El Dorado (2000), Shirley Perro in Riding in Cars with Boys (2001), Louise in Human Nature (2001), played Frances in King of the Jungle (2002), Mrs. Ponders in Just Like the Son (2006), Maria (voice) in the short film Lolo's Cafe (2006), Marina De La Pena in The Take (2007), and portrayed corrupt police officer Carol Brazier, co-starring with Seth Rogen and James Franco, in Judd Apatow-produced action comedy Pineapple Express (2008).[29][120][121][26] She appeared as herself in The Other Guys (2010), Julia in Pete Smalls Is Dead (2010), Ms. Baker in Small Apartments (2012), Brenna Harper in the education reform drama Won't Back Down (2012), Persephone in Gods Behaving Badly (2013), herself in The Being Experience (2013), Red (voice) in The Hero of Color City (2014), Zowie in Fugly! (2014), The View Host in Pitch Perfect 2 (2015), Renee Montoya in the DC superhero film Birds of Prey (and the Fantabulous Emancipation of One Harley Quinn) (2020), and Ms. Rodriguez in the family film Clifford the Big Red Dog (2021).[122][123][26] Perez starred as Grace Santos in The 24 Hour Woman (1999), directed by Nancy Savoca, a comedy-drama about a television producer balancing career and motherhood.[29] Television Roles Perez entered television primarily through dance and performance, serving as a choreographer for the music-dance program Soul Train beginning in 1988.[26] Her breakthrough on-screen role came as one of the Fly Girls dancers on the Fox sketch comedy series In Living Color, where she performed from 1990 to 1992 across 62 episodes, also choreographing segments and making occasional acting appearances in sketches. She debuted as an actress in the short-lived CBS newsroom drama WIOU, portraying Wanda in select episodes during its 1990–1991 run of 18 episodes.Throughout the 1990s and 2000s, Perez accumulated guest spots and recurring roles on various series, including a recurring role as Dahlia Morales in season 2 of Lipstick Jungle (2008–09), Eva Banks in the "Hardwired" episode of Law & Order: Special Victims Unit (2009), an appearance as herself in the "Soul Train: The Hippest Trip in America" episode of VH1 Rock Docs (2010), La Bruja (voice) in the "Dora's Big Birthday Adventure" episode of Dora the Explorer (2010), Chichelsea Chihuahua (voice) in the "Bea Dates Milo" episode of Fish Hooks (2012), Jules in the "Slow Growing Monsters" episode of Nurse Jackie (2012), Madeleine Flowers in the "The Silent and the Damned" episode of Falcón (2012), guest judge as herself in the "All Star Girl Groups" episode of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars (2012), Bertha in the TV movie Lackawanna Blues (2005), a 2004 appearance on Frasier, recurring as Choni (voice) in seasons 3–4 of The Cleveland Show (2012–13), herself as main cast in In the Woods (2013), co-host as herself in the "Co-Host Rosie Perez/'Spartacus'" episode of Anderson Live (2013), herself in episode #12.6 of American Latino TV (2013), herself in the "Hair Apparent" episode of Park Bench with Steve Buscemi (2014), guest co-host in season 17 of The View (2013–14), voicing Aunt Rose in Penn Zero: Part-Time Hero (2014–17), panelist on the "Starbucks's 'Race Together' Campaign" episode of The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore (2015), herself in the "The Women's List" episode of American Masters (2015), Lorraine De Coss in season 1 of Search Party (2016), recurring guest on Then and Now with Andy Cohen (2017), herself in the "Guest in a Snake" episode of Nightcap (2017), Phoebe O'Reilly in season 1 of Pure (2017), and Nina Morales in Bounty Hunters (2017–19).[26] In 2014, she joined ABC's daytime talk show The View as a co-host for its 18th season, debuting on September 15, 2014, and departing in August 2015 after contributing to discussions on entertainment, politics, and culture as the program's first Latina host.[124][35]She also appeared as Marisol Reyes in the TV movie Lies in Plain Sight (2010).[26]More recently, Perez has embraced voice acting and limited series work. She voiced Click, the camera, in the Nick Jr. series Go, Diego, Go!, which aired from 2005 to 2011, and Petra in the Netflix animated comedy Big Mouth, as well as recurring as Cipactli (voice) in the Netflix animated series Maya and the Three (2021), Mrs. Torres (voice) in the "The Delivernator" episode of Big City Greens (2022), Flora Neruda as main cast in the Apple TV+ miniseries Now and Then (2022), recurring as Petra the Ambition Gremlin (voice) in Human Resources (2022–2023), recurring as Olivia Delmont in season 2 of Your Honor (2023), and Suzie Groove (voice) in the "Tango Tangle" episode of SpongeBob SquarePants (2024).[26][125] Her 2024 credits include voicing Martina Martinez in the Fox animated series Grimsburg, playing Rosie Perez in the short-form series Highest 2 Lowest, and portraying Denise in the drama Before.[126][125] Choreography and Music Videos Perez transitioned from dancing on Soul Train in the 1980s to professional choreography, initially gaining recognition through high-energy routines that blended hip-hop and street styles.[8] Her work emphasized precise, athletic movements suited to R&B and hip-hop tracks, drawing from her Brooklyn roots and nightclub experiences.[4]She choreographed music videos for artists including Bobby Brown, Diana Ross, LL Cool J, Janet Jackson, The Boys, and Al B. Sure, contributing to the visual aesthetics of late-1980s and early-1990s urban music.[4][127] Notable among these was her choreography for Diana Ross's "Workin' Overtime" (1989), where she crafted sequences highlighting Ross's performance amid a factory-set narrative.[128] For Bobby Brown, her contributions aligned with hits like "Every Little Step" (1989), featuring synchronized group dances that amplified the song's upbeat tempo and became staples of MTV-era visuals.[129]Perez's choreography often involved directing ensembles of dancers, as seen in videos for LL Cool J, where she incorporated rhythmic footwork and expressive gestures to match his lyrical delivery.[127] These projects established her as a key figure in bridging dance with music promotion, influencing the polished yet gritty style prevalent in the genre before her shift to acting and television production.[4] Documentaries and Directorial Works Perez co-directed her feature-length documentary debut, Yo soy Boricua, pa'que tu lo sepas! (I'm Boricua, Just So You Know!), released in 2006, alongside Liz Garbus.[30] The film, which Perez also narrated and produced, examines Puerto Rican history, cultural identity, and national pride, beginning with the annual Puerto Rican Day Parade in New York City and tracing influences from indigenous Taíno roots through Spanish colonization, U.S. annexation in 1898, and modern diaspora experiences.[32][130] It premiered at the TribecaFilm Festival on April 27, 2006, and features interviews with historians, activists, and cultural figures alongside archival footage to address themes of resilience and self-determination.[131][132]In addition to directing, Perez served as executive producer for HBO's Rosie Perez Presents Society's Ride (2004), a three-part documentary series addressing urban social challenges, with each hour-long episode focusing on a different U.S. city—New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago—through on-the-ground reporting on issues like poverty, education, and community activism.[133] The project stemmed from her activism and prior short-form directing experience, including music videos and a Canal+ short film, but marked her expansion into producing nonfiction television exploring systemic societal conditions.[33] No subsequent feature-length directorial credits in documentaries have been documented.[29]Perez also executive produced several documentaries, including Big Pun: The Legacy (2008), Brooklyn Boheme (2011), Stretch and Bobbito: Radio That Changed Lives (2015), Michael Jackson's Journey from Motown to Off the Wall (2016), My Name Is Pedro (2017), Pa'lante (2018), and Have a Good Trip: Adventures in Psychedelics (2020).[26]
