=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Helmut Lang - Exhibitions - Sperone Westwater]
New York, NY - 21 March 2017: Sperone Westwater is pleased to present new work by Helmut Lang in the artist's second solo exhibition at the gallery. Since 2007, Lang has worked with found objects and readily available materials to create a dense, raw, and enigmatic body of work.
URL: https://www.speronewestwater.com/exhibitions/helmut-lang4

[Helmut Lang | Meer]
The third body of new work consists of a series of surrogate skin-like wall reliefs in silk, oil, and shellac. This exhibition demonstrates Lang's ongoing development of a singular and provocative visual language. Helmut Lang lives and works in New York.
URL: https://www.meer.com/en/25390-helmut-lang

[sw_2017_pr - h-lang.studio]
New York, NY – 21 March 2017: Sperone Westwater is pleased to present new work by Helmut Lang in the artist's second solo exhibition at the gallery. Since 2007, Lang has worked with found objects and readily available materials to create a dense, raw, and enigmatic body of work.
URL: https://www.h-lang.studio/sw_2017_pr.html

[Helmut Lang has a new art exhibit at Sperone Westwater - The Cut]
Apr 7, 2017 · Helmut Lang’s exhibition is on at Sperone Westwater until April 29th. He has upcoming solo shows at Sammlung Friedrichshof (Burgenland, Austria) and Stadtraum (Vienna, Austria) from May 6th through November 19th, 2017.
URL: https://www.thecut.com/2017/04/helmut-lang-has-a-new-art-exhibit-at-sperone-westwater.html

[Helmut Lang's first New York gallery solo show opens at Sperone Westwater]
NEW YORK, NY.- Sperone Westwater presents an exhibition of sculptures by Helmut Lang, the artist's first New York gallery solo show. Lang's artistic practice is characterized by his use of materials and textures, assembled from diverse sources and repurposed. Lang has stated he prefers materials "with a certain history, elements with irreplaceable presence and with scars and memories of a ...
URL: https://artdaily.cc/news/75603/Helmut-Lang-s-first-New-York-gallery-solo-show-opens-at-Sperone-Westwater


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Helmut Lang - Exhibitions - Sperone Westwater] ---
New York, NY – 21 March 2017: Sperone Westwater is pleased to present new work by Helmut Lang in the artist's second solo exhibition at the gallery. Since 2007, Lang has worked with found objects and readily available materials to create a dense, raw, and enigmatic body of work. Lang’s work is process-oriented, and the residue of his experimentation is left visible in the final product. The objects he creates have an intense physicality that evokes the human body and human condition while remaining essentially abstract. This exhibition showcases three new bodies of work created between 2015 and 2017. A series of floor sculptures and wall reliefs utilizing memory foam is displayed on the main ground-floor. These eccentric forms hover between abstraction and figuration, physical presence and absence, amputated or erased memories, as the materials he employs also often retain the impression of the human body. Knotted around themselves, the floor sculptures hint at sensations of personal vulnerability. With their soft and sometimes glutinous surfaces and golden-brown colour, they mark a clear break with the multi-coloured vertical monoliths of Lang’s previous exhibition. In his wall reliefs, the foam has been distressed to create imprints on the cusp of attraction and the reality of malfunction. The tactile dimension of both series is especially pronounced, inducing an awareness of different tissues and textures of the body. The east gallery on the ground floor features several hanging sculptures made with shellacked paper. Like the memory-foam sculptures, these layered forms possess a strong anthropomorphic presence and an unmistakable erotic charge. There is a suggestion of cruelty in the way that some are suspended at the middle from industrial hooks. Like twisted husks or shed skins, they appear to bear witness to some obscure process of metamorphosis. The third body of new work consists of a series of surrogate skin-like wall reliefs in silk, oil, and shellac. This exhibition demonstrates Lang’s ongoing development of a singular and provocative visual language. Helmut Lang lives and works in New York. He has exhibited since 1996 in Europe and the United States, among others, at the Florence Biennale, Florence (1996); Kunsthalle Wien, Vienna (1998); The Journal Gallery, New York (2007); kestnergesellschaft, Hanover (2008); The Fireplace Project, Long Island (2011); Schusev State Museum, Moscow (2011); Mark Fletcher, New York (2012); Deste Foundation, Athens (2013); Sperone Westwater, New York (2015) and Dallas Contemporary, Dallas (2016). Helmut Lang has upcoming solo shows at Sammlung Friedrichshof (Burgenland, Austria) and Stadtraum (Vienna, Austria) from 6 May - 19 November, 2017. Helmut Lang: new work is on view at Sperone Westwater from 30 March – 29 April 2017, with an opening reception on Thursday, 30th March, from 6:00 – 8:00 pm. For more information please contact: Aurelia Rauch, Creative Director aurelia@speronewestwater.com +1 212 999 7337


--- [Helmut Lang | Meer] ---
Sperone Westwater is pleased to present new work by Helmut Lang in the artist's second solo exhibition at the gallery. Since 2007, Lang has worked with found objects and readily available materials to create a dense, raw, and enigmatic body of work. Lang’s work is process-oriented, and the residue of his experimentation is left visible in the final product. The objects he creates have an intense physicality that evokes the human body and human condition while remaining essentially abstract. This exhibition showcases three new bodies of work created between 2015 and 2017. A series of floor sculptures and wall reliefs utilizing memory foam is displayed on the main ground-floor. These eccentric forms hover between abstraction and figuration, physical presence and absence, amputated or erased memories, as the materials he employs also often retain the impression of the human body. Knotted around themselves, the floor sculptures hint at sensations of personal vulnerability. With their soft and sometimes glutinous surfaces and golden-brown colour, they mark a clear break with the multi-coloured vertical monoliths of Lang’s previous exhibition. In his wall reliefs, the foam has been distressed to create imprints on the cusp of attraction and the reality of malfunction. The tactile dimension of both series is especially pronounced, inducing an awareness of different tissues and textures of the body. The east gallery on the ground floor features several hanging sculptures made with shellacked paper. Like the memory-foam sculptures, these layered forms possess a strong anthropomorphic presence and an unmistakable erotic charge. There is a suggestion of cruelty in the way that some are suspended at the middle from industrial hooks. Like twisted husks or shed skins, they appear to bear witness to some obscure process of metamorphosis. The third body of new work consists of a series of surrogate skin-like wall reliefs in silk, oil, and shellac. This exhibition demonstrates Lang’s ongoing development of a singular and provocative visual language. Helmut Lang lives and works in New York. He has exhibited since 1996 in Europe and the United States, among others, at the Florence Biennale, Florence (1996); Kunsthalle Wien, Vienna (1998); The Journal Gallery, New York (2007); kestnergesellschaft, Hanover (2008); The Fireplace Project, Long Island (2011); Schusev State Museum, Moscow (2011); Mark Fletcher, New York (2012); Deste Foundation, Athens (2013); Sperone Westwater, New York (2015) and Dallas Contemporary, Dallas (2016). Helmut Lang has upcoming solo shows at Sammlung Friedrichshof (Burgenland, Austria) and Stadtraum (Vienna, Austria) from 6 May - 19 November, 2017. Helmut Lang: new work is on view at Sperone Westwater from 30 March – 29 April 2017.


--- [sw_2017_pr - h-lang.studio] ---
| press release selected press | || New York, NY – 21 March 2017: Sperone Westwater is pleased to present new work by Helmut Lang in the artist's second solo exhibition at the gallery. Since 2007, Lang has worked with found objects and readily available materials to create a dense, raw, and enigmatic body of work. Lang’s work is process-oriented, and the residue of his experimentation is left visible in the final product. The objects he creates have an intense physicality that evokes the human body and human condition while remaining essentially abstract. This exhibition showcases three new bodies of work created between 2015 and 2017. A series of floor sculptures and wall reliefs utilizing memory foam is displayed on the main ground-floor. These eccentric forms hover between abstraction and figuration, physical presence and absence, amputated or erased memories, as the materials he employs also often retain the impression of the human body. Knotted around themselves, the floor sculptures hint at sensations of personal vulnerability. With their soft and sometimes glutinous surfaces and golden-brown colour, they mark a clear break with the multi-coloured vertical monoliths of Lang’s previous exhibition. In his wall reliefs, the foam has been distressed to create imprints on the cusp of attraction and the reality of malfunction. The tactile dimension of both series is especially pronounced, inducing an awareness of different tissues and textures of the body. The east gallery on the ground floor features several hanging sculptures made with shellacked paper. Like the memory-foam sculptures, these layered forms possess a strong anthropomorphic presence and an unmistakable erotic charge. There is a suggestion of cruelty in the way that some are suspended at the middle from industrial hooks. Like twisted husks or shed skins, they appear to bear witness to some obscure process of metamorphosis. The third body of new work consists of a series of surrogate skin-like wall reliefs in silk, oil, and shellac. This exhibition demonstrates Lang’s ongoing development of a singular and provocative visual language. Helmut Lang lives and works in New York. He has exhibited since 1996 in Europe and the United States, among others, at the Florence Biennale, Florence (1996); Kunsthalle Wien, Vienna (1998); The Journal Gallery, New York (2007); kestnergesellschaft, Hanover (2008); The Fireplace Project, Long Island (2011); Schusev State Museum, Moscow (2011); Mark Fletcher, New York (2012); Deste Foundation, Athens (2013); Sperone Westwater, New York (2015) and Dallas Contemporary, Dallas (2016). Helmut Lang has upcoming solo shows at Sammlung Friedrichshof (Burgenland, Austria) and Stadtraum (Vienna, Austria) from 6 May - 19 November, 2017. Helmut Lang: new work is on view at Sperone Westwater from 30 March – 29 April 2017, with an opening reception on Thursday, 30th March, from 6:00 – 8:00 pm. For more information please contact: Aurelia Rauch, Creative Director aurelia@speronewestwater.com +1 212 999 7337 | ||


--- [Helmut Lang has a new art exhibit at Sperone Westwater - The Cut] ---
You get the idea, meeting him as I did on a recent afternoon at the Sperone Westwater gallery on Bowery amid his peculiarly assertive, fossil-like memory-foam sculptures, shellacked wall objects (some of which look almost edible, but of course are not), and husk-like pieces dangling on meat hooks from the ceiling, that Helmut Lang doesn’t forget much. That he’s always working through his past, rummaging around in the idea of it, transforming it, and also hoping, perhaps, in that way, to leave it behind. And he’s left a lot behind — insofar as that’s possible, as there aren’t many artists who share their name with an iconic fashion brand (with a shop in the Meatpacking District) they haven’t owned, or been involved with, in over a decade. That brand continues on without him — even as artist Lang was preparing the show in mid-March, it was announced that HBA’s Shayne Oliver is working with brand Lang now. In person, Lang, who turned 61 in March, is avuncular but cautious. Even after living for 20 years in New York, he seems to worry that he can’t quite express himself exactly as he wants in English, and, he admits, he would have preferred to do an interview over email. (“I’m very bad at making statements.”) That way he could go over it, rethink what he has to say, make sure it is precisely as he’d like it to be. He is, it seems, an iterative, intuitive, just-so person, a reworker and refiner, which, if you think about the insightful rigor of his clothing, makes sense, but, as he explains it to me, is also how he works as an artist, starting with a material and an idea of what he might do with it, to transform it, or draw out some hidden quality in it, something haunting it. “I am always interested in transforming materials to give them a different meaning or perception,” he says. As he tells it, Lang, who grew up in Austria the son of a truck driver, never planned to be in fashion. “That turned out to be an accident,” he says (today he is in a sweatshirt with what appears to be a built-in wrist stirrup, jeans, and sneakers). “But a good accident.” After leaving home at 18 (where his stepmother dressed him in suits that had belonged to her father, which he hated), he found that he had a talent for making his own clothes, and even though he was untrained in fashion started a made-to-measure shop in Vienna. That was in 1977, and by the 1990s he’d become one of fashion’s biggest minimalists. Prada bought 51 percent of his business in 1999. But he never forgot himself in that world, or he tried to keep a kind of distance from it, almost like his success was an art project itself: Once, he scanned a bunch of notes from friends and fashion types he knew, digitally manipulated them, and printed them as an art project in the magazine Purple called “Selective Memory Series.” He became close friends and art-fashion collaborators with Louise Bourgeois and Jenny Holzer, whose sculptures also showed up in his clothing stores and perfumery (he and Holzer worked together on a piece about, yes, memory — in the form of scent on clothing — at the Florence Biennale in 1996.) One of his ads featured a Robert Mapplethorpe photograph of Bourgeois carrying her latex phallus sculpture under her arm. In 2004, he sold the rest of his fashion company to Prada, and then left in 2005. Since then he’s had shows from Brooklyn to Moscow, as well as Germany, East Hampton and Dallas. His first show at Sperone Westwater was in 2015. In 2009, he made a sardonic resin piece called Front Row, of five ghostly chairs from a fashion show, which might have seemed like an act of exorcism. And then, in 2010, there was a fire in the Soho space where he kept his archive, and afterward he shredded the 6,000 to 8,000 items of clothing that survived, transforming them into sculptures. And at that point, he was as free of fashion as he was ever going to be, although among the people I saw show up at his opening on March 30 were Grace Coddington and Barneys’ Dennis Freedman. Mostly he lives in East Hampton now, where his studio is an old barn that was a gift from the heiress and photographer Adelaide de Menil. That’s where he made this work. He doesn’t come into the city much. “I spend more time out there,” he says. “Because the studio is out there. So you work there. So I work basically except now. Of course I have an apartment and everything here but because of the work situation I stay out there.” Is it easier to make art out of the city? I think it is less distracting. Working there … you are always removed. In New York there’s always something to do. But I don’t know that I need constant stimulation. That can also be confusing. And you can be noisy or not and nobody will complain. Then in August I don’t work. Basically everybody is out there for one-and-a-half months. Not only from New York but from all over the world. But off-season, sometimes it can feel isolated. The distance matters and doesn’t matter. But then New York is only a two-hour drive away … Without the summer traffic. I could have a studio in Brooklyn like everyone else … Are there still many artists you see out there? It famously used to be, but now I feel like it’s just so full of finance guys when I’m out there it’s hard to remember that legacy. George Condo is basically around the corner. Nate Lowman is there. Cindy Sherman — there’s at least 100 artists. Not that they’re there all the time. So let’s walk through the show. This work is all new? Yes, over the last two years. I like to work in different bodies of work at the same time. You start, you do maybe four or five pieces, and then you stop when you feel that could be a good contribution to that cycle. It’s about taking your time. It just goes until it gets to the point where you decide there’s not much more to say or else you said too much and then you edit it down. What are they mostly made from? The basic material is foam. The little ones are silk and shellack. Some are only wax What unites them? The color? Their visual chemistry. These sculptures remind me of animals. Or orc fists. Or dinosaur hip bones with meat on them. Everyone sees something else in it, which I always think is very rewarding. It’s not one obvious thing … It could also be another body part … Butts? Are they portraits? One is a famous butt, one is not famous. That’s a joke. And these wall pieces are also made out of foam? Yes, I call them reliefs. They aren’t paintings exactly … Why make it out of shellacked foam? I work with material which is not typical material you find in the art store. I do either found materials or materials which are natural or industrial and I see where it leads me. Where’d you come upon this material though? I got some memory foam like three or four years ago for another artwork I had in mind, which did not work out, and it was just sitting around for a year. So you didn’t just rip up a mattress. No, not in that case. It’s foam which has been imprinted by human beings. It’s imprinted over the years by human beings, you can’t see it but you can feel it. The sculptures and the flat work were all imprinted by humans. They had a previous life. But the memory foam upstairs from the previous art work which did not work out, but after a year I found a solution for it … That’s intriguing. What was the previous life for the foam? I’d rather not say, because otherwise, it channels your fantasy in one direction … It’s hard not to when you talk about foam and other people’s bodies. But it’s already a lot, no? But it’s not coming from what you see. What are you thinking? Let it out! Well, people having sex … No. It’s clean. It was covered. Tell me about these hanging sculptures. They’re made out of resin-coated paper? They look like … Some people think it has a suggestion of cruelty. [laughs] Skin or husks. Snakeskins if you find that level. Or an abattoir for aliens. They’re a little creepy. Not to me. I find them kind of intriguing in a beautiful way. Looking at it closely, you can see the drip of the resin … My work, it’s not cleaned up. And it almost looks like you sewed it … No. That’s behind me. I might take it up again someday. Upstairs, there are more memory-foam pieces, with these mysterious circular patterns on them. They are kind of amputated memories. Frozen. Did you carve out the foam and stuff this distressed foam back in? No, but maybe that would have been easier … They have been kind of bondaged. It’s a square piece and they are bondaged together with straps. And the memory foam retains that when you open it up again. It’s sort of kinky. If you think about it, yes. But when you’re doing it it’s not. Not that there’s anything wrong with that. That’s one good reason to do your work in the country. Nobody can hear the bondaged foam scream. It’s pretty quiet actually. Helmut Lang’s exhibition is on at Sperone Westwater until April 29th. He has upcoming solo shows at Sammlung Friedrichshof (Burgenland, Austria) and Stadtraum (Vienna, Austria) from May 6th through November 19th, 2017.


--- [Helmut Lang's first New York gallery solo show opens at Sperone Westwater] ---
NEW YORK, NY.- Sperone Westwater presents an exhibition of sculptures by Helmut Lang, the artist's first New York gallery solo show. Lang's artistic practice is characterized by his use of materials and textures, assembled from diverse sources and repurposed. Lang has stated he prefers materials "with a certain history, elements with irreplaceable presence and with scars and memories of a former purpose." Shredded fragments from his "S�ance de Travail" archive serve as raw material for the largest series of works and are transmuted with resin and pigment into a series of pillar-like sculptures, each measuring between 10 and 12 feet high. As Lang has observed, "the substance of artists' lives has always been the subject of their art." The resulting columnar forms exude an organic quality, a starting point for a larger meditation on acts of creative destruction and gestures of renewal. The sculptures appear both hard and fragile. Their geometric shape and structure are juxtaposed with the random accumulation of archival fragments contained within. In this group of nearly 200, each assumes a distinct individualized character. A series of wall sculptures, composed of resin and pigment pressed together in plankton-like sheets, offers a delicate, almost ephemeral contrast to the taut tall pillars. Another group of densely layered reliefs builds upon Lang's use of common manufactured materials, this time incorporating cardboard, string, and tape. He paints each surface with a monochrome finish to emphasize the texture and dimensionality. While the artist's process is readily apparent and his materials easily identifiable, in his hands they are enhanced and transformed into objects of contemplation. Born in Vienna, Austria in 1956, Helmut Lang lives and works on Long Island and in New York. Lang was first exposed to contemporary art as an 18-year-old student in Vienna. During this period, he became close friends with the painter Kurt Kocherscheidt, whom Lang credits with influencing his studio practice, and his wife, Elfie Semotan-Kippenberger. Over the next several decades, while gaining international acclaim as a leader and innovator in fashion, Lang maintained relationships with his friends in the Viennese art world including Kocherscheidt, Martin Kippenberger and Franz West, amongst others. His engagement with contemporary art expanded throughout this period to include a series of collaborations with Louise Bourgeois and Jenny Holzer, whom he met in the mid-1990s. Following his retirement from fashion in 2005, Lang has devoted the last ten years to his artistic practice. After several exhibitions since 2007 in Europe and the United States, he joined Sperone Westwater this year.
