=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

["Always Invention": An Introduction to Lygia Pape | The Art ...]
Feb 7, 2023 · In the late 1950s Pape began exploring performance and video art and created Ballet Neoconcreto with the poet Reynaldo Jardim. In these performances, large geometric volumes in various colors moved slowly about the stage, thanks to the movement of dancers hidden inside them.
URL: https://www.artic.edu/articles/1017/always-invention-an-introduction-to-lygia-pape

[Lygia Pape - Hammer Museum - UCLA]
Despite the possibility, Pape never printed in multiples. During the late 1950s and early 1960s she created a trilogy of artist's books, including Book of Creation (1959), that would become key works in the neoconcrete movement. Many of her works that followed required group participation to form a collective and shared creative experience.
URL: https://hammer.ucla.edu/radical-women/artists/lygia-pape

[Lygia Pape - Wikipedia]
Lygia Pape (7 April 1927 - 3 May 2004) was a Brazilian visual artist, sculptor, engraver, and filmmaker, who was a key figure in the Concrete movement and a later co-founder of the Neo-Concrete Movement in Brazil during the 1950s and 1960s. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lygia_Pape

[Now Representing: Lygia Pape - White Cube]
During the latter part of the 1950s the artist ventured into video and performance art, with seminal investigations including the staged Ballet Neoconcreto (1958) and the later monumental performance work Divisor (1968). In 1959, Pape, along with Oiticica and Clark, would sign the Neo-Concrete manifesto authored by Ferreira Gullar.
URL: https://www.whitecube.com/news/now-representing-lygia-pape

[英語「late」の意味・読み方・表現 | Weblio英和辞書]
Feb 2, 2024 · 「late」の意味・翻訳・日本語 - (ある時刻に)遅れた、遅い、遅刻した、 (…に)遅れて、遅くて、いつもより遅い、夜になってからの、夜ふけた、時候遅れの、終わりに近い｜Weblio英和・和英辞書
URL: https://ejje.weblio.jp/content/late


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ["Always Invention": An Introduction to Lygia Pape | The Art ...] ---
No content


--- [Lygia Pape - Hammer Museum - UCLA] ---
Lygia Pape Born in 1927 in Nova Friburgo, Lygia Pape lived and worked in Brazil until her death in Rio de Janeiro in 2004. Pape studied philosophy at the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ) before beginning her art studies in the 1950s with Fagya Ostrower (1920–2001) at the Museu de Arte Moderna do Rio de Janeiro, where she developed an early affinity for woodblock prints, which she later referred to as tecelares (weavings). Pape was influenced by European constructivism and began her art practice by exploring geometric abstraction. Color and light became important principles of her early and ongoing art investigations. While at the Museu de Arte Moderna she met Hélio Oiticica (1937–1980), Ivan Serpa (1923–1973), and Aluíso Carvão (1920–2001), with whom she formed Grupo Frente in 1952. The group embraced notions of concrete art, rejecting tenets of Brazilian modernism such as figuration, representation of nature, and nationalism. In 1959 members of Grupo Frente, including Pape, Oiticica, and Lygia Clark (1920–1988), penned the neoconcrete manifesto, arguing for a geometric style that would allow some degree of expression and an art that provided viewers with a corporeal and phenomenological experience. While members worked mostly in painting and sculpture, Pape was the sole artist utilizing the woodblock print to express neoconcrete ideals; indeed she is thought to have been the only Brazilian printmaker working in geometric abstraction during the 1950s. In 1954 Pape exhibited a series of woodcuts in the first Grupo Frente exhibition, held at the Instituto Cultural Brasil-Estados Unidos in Rio de Janeiro. Despite the possibility, Pape never printed in multiples. During the late 1950s and early 1960s she created a trilogy of artist's books, including Book of Creation (1959), that would become key works in the neoconcrete movement. Many of her works that followed required group participation to form a collective and shared creative experience. In the late 1950s she began exploring performance and video art and developed with the poet Reynaldo Jardim (1926–2011) Neoconcrete Ballets, in which dancers inhabited colored cylindrical costumes as they moved about the stage. In the 1960s Pape worked with the film group Cinema Novo as a designer of credits, posters, and displays. After the military coup d'état of 1964 she devoted most of her efforts to film, for which she introduced new social and political nuances. She continued to make experimental films into the 1970s. By 1978 and into the 2000s Pape developed large environments and site-specific works; some communicated important social themes while others reiterated her interest in light and active participation. From 1969 to 1971 she taught at the Museu de Arte Moderna, and from 1972 to 1985 she taught semiotics at the Universidade Santa Úrsula, both in Rio de Janeiro. In 1980 she received a master's degree in philosophy of art from UFRJ, and in 1982 she was appointed professor of fine arts at UFRJ. Pape participated in major exhibitions both in Brazil and internationally, such as the São Paulo Bienal (1953, 1955, 1957, 1959, 1989) and the Salão Nacional de Arte Moderna in Rio de Janeiro between 1952 and 1960. She participated in the 50th Venice Biennale (2003) and the 12th Istanbul Biennale (2011). —Courtney Smith Selected Solo Exhibitions 1975–76 Eat Me: Gluttony or Lust?, Museu de Arte Moderna do Rio de Janeiro (traveled) 2000 Lygia Pape: Gávea de Tocaiai, Serralves, Lisbon 2001 Forma: Brazil, Geraldo de Barros and Lygia Pape, Americas Society, New York 2011–12 Lygia Pape: Magnetized Space, Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid (traveled) 2017 Lygia Pape: A Multitude of Forms, Met Breuer, New York Selected Bibliography Bentes, Ivana, et al. Lygia Pape: Magnetized Space. Zurich: JRP|Ringier, 2015. Carneiro, Lúcia, and Ileana Padilla. Lygia Pape. Rio de Janeiro: Nova Aguilar, 1998. Cocchiarale, Fernando. Lygia Pape: Entre o olho e o espírito. Porto, Portugal: Mimesis, 2004. Mattar, Denise. Lygia Pape: Intrinsecamente anarquista. Rio de Janeiro: Relume Dumará, 2003. Pedrosa, Mario, Guy Brett, and Hélio Oiticica. Lygia Pape: Gávea de tocaia. São Paulo: Cosac & Naify, 2000.


--- [Lygia Pape - Wikipedia] ---
Lygia Pape (7 April 1927 – 3 May 2004) was a Brazilian visual artist, sculptor, engraver, and filmmaker, who was a key figure in the Concrete movement and a later co-founder of the Neo-Concrete Movement in Brazil during the 1950s and 1960s. Along with Hélio Oiticica and Lygia Clark, she was an important artist in the expansion of contemporary art in Brazil and pushed geometric art to include aspects of interaction and to engage with ethical and political themes.


--- [Now Representing: Lygia Pape - White Cube] ---
White Cube is pleased to announce representation of the estate of pioneering Brazilian artist Lygia Pape (1927–2004). The artist’s debut with White Cube will take place at the 2023 edition of Art Basel Miami Beach (stand A23), where the gallery will present four works from across the breadth of her practice. Her first solo exhibition at the gallery will take place at White Cube Seoul in spring 2024. A prominent figure in the Neo-Concrete movement and preceding Concrete movement, Pape was instrumental in the emergence of contemporary art in Brazil from the mid-20th-century. Her multidisciplinary practice encompassed not only painting but also printmaking, sculpture, film, performance and installation. In the latter decades of her life – from 1976 to the early 2000s – Pape dedicated herself to a series of geometric installations entitled ‘Ttéia’ – a semantic play on the Portuguese words ‘teia’ (meaning ‘web’) and ‘teteia’, connoting a person or entity of grace. Created the year before her death in 2003, the gold-plated copper sculpture, titled Metallic Ttéia (#3), will be shown on the Art Basel Miami Beach stand alongside the abstract geometric painting Canvas (1987) and two of Pape’s important early woodcut prints, from the ‘Tecelares’ (‘Weavings’) series. These early works, from 1955 and 1959, represent Pape’s affiliation with the avant-garde collective Grupo Frente, founded in Rio de Janeiro by Ivan Serpa and comprised of fellow artists Hélio Oiticica, Lygia Clark and Aluísio Carvão. Established in the early 1950s, Grupo Frente renounced the tenets of Brazilian modernism, instead, seeking a form of enigmatic abstraction that was, from the outset, untethered from observed reality. During the latter part of the 1950s the artist ventured into video and performance art, with seminal investigations including the staged Ballet Neoconcreto (1958) and the later monumental performance work Divisor (1968). In 1959, Pape, along with Oiticica and Clark, would sign the Neo-Concrete manifesto authored by Ferreira Gullar. The manifesto established the foundational principles of the movement, diverging from Concrete art in that it advocated for a heightened sensuality, a liberation from colour and the embrace of phenomenology in real-time and space. Susan May, Global Artistic Director, White Cube said: ‘As one of the most significant artists to emerge from the post-war Brazilian avant-garde, Lygia Pape’s place in the canon of modernism is assured. Her work was, in many ways, ahead of its time, from forging new forms of geometric abstraction in the 1950s, through to her performances and films of the 1960s and 1970s addressing themes of feminism, ecology and activism. We are honoured to be working with Projeto Lygia Pape to advance the legacy of this extraordinary artist.’ Projeto Lygia Pape said: ‘As we approach the centennial celebration of Lygia Pape’s birth in 2027, it is exciting for us to embark on this new partnership with White Cube. We are certain that our collaboration with the gallery will provide an exceptional opportunity to bring the artist’s visionary works to new audiences.’


--- [英語「late」の意味・読み方・表現 | Weblio英和辞書] ---
lateとは 意味・読み方・使い方 追加できません (登録数上限) 意味・対訳 (ある時刻に)遅れた、遅い、遅刻した、(…に)遅れて、遅くて、いつもより遅い、夜になってからの、夜ふけた、時候遅れの、終わりに近い | コア | ある時点よりもあとの［遅い］；終わりに近い 過去の「終わりに近い」から「最近の」の意になる | lateの | lateの | lateの学習レベル | レベル：1英検：3級以上の単語学校レベル：中学以上の水準TOEIC® L&Rスコア：220点以上の単語 | 研究社 新英和中辞典での「late」の意味 | | late | the late prime minister 前[元]首相. | | of láte yéars | (ràther [vèry]) láte in the dáy | | late in the eighteenth century 18世紀末に. | | of láte | till láte | - 履歴機能過去に調べた 単語を確認! - 語彙力診断診断回数が 増える! - マイ単語帳便利な 学習機能付き! - マイ例文帳文章で 単語を理解! Eゲイト英和辞典での「late」の意味 | | late コアある時点よりもあとの［遅い］；終わりに近い過去の「終わりに近い」から「最近の」の意になる 形容詞 1〔普通より遅い〕a（時間的に）遅い；夜遅い b（時期的に）遅い，おくての，遅咲きの，晩成の 2〔定刻より遅い〕((ふつう叙述))〈…に〉遅れた，遅刻した，間に合わない〈for/to〉；〈…が〉遅れている〈with〉 | 3（ある時期の）終わりごろの，後半の，下旬の，後期［晩期］の 4〔過去の終わり［現在］に近い〕((限定))a最近の，最新の；((the ～))先の，前の，前任の | b((the [one's] ～))最近亡くなった，故… 副詞 成句as late as ... …になってもまだ，…になってやっと，つい（最近の）… 成句Better late than never. ((ことわざ))遅くてもしないよりはまし 成句late in life ⇒life成句 成句late in the day ⇒day成句 名詞 Weblio実用英語辞典での「late」の意味 | | late 「late」とは・「late」の意味 形容詞：遅い、遅れた、近頃の 副詞：遅くに、遅れて、最近 lateの用法 形容詞 「late」が形容詞として使われる場合、時間に関して遅れている状態や、期限を過ぎた状況、または最近の、近頃のという意味合いで用いられる。具体的な例を以下に示す。 ・例文1. He apologized for being late.（彼は遅れたことを謝った。） 2. The late train caused me to miss my appointment.（遅れた電車のせいで私は約束に遅れた。） 3. She is interested in late 19th-century art.（彼女は19世紀後半の芸術に興味がある。） 4. The project is late in its schedule.（プロジェクトは予定より遅れている。） 5. He often thinks about his late grandfather.（彼はよく故祖父のことを思い出す。） 副詞 「late」が副詞として使われる場合、何かが予定時刻よりも後に起こること、または時間が経過した後に行われることを示す。最近という意味でも使用される。具体的な例を以下に示す。 ・例文1. He arrived late to the party.（彼はパーティーに遅れて到着した。） 2. She stayed up late working on her report.（彼女はレポートを仕上げるために遅くまで起きていた。） 3. They have been paying their bills late.（彼らは請求書の支払いを遅れて行っている。） 4. Late in the evening, the guests began to leave.（夜遅くになって、ゲストたちは帰り始めた。） 5. He has been more careful with his health of late.（彼は最近、健康に気を使うようになった。） Wiktionary英語版での「late」の意味 | late 出典:『Wiktionary』 (2025/12/24 16:39 UTC 版) 語源 From 中期英語 late, lat, from 古期英語 læt (“slow; slack, lax, negligent; late”), from Proto-West Germanic *lat, from Proto-Germanic *lataz (“slow, lazy”). By surface analysis, deverbal from let. 形容詞 late (comparative later, superlative latest) - Near the end of a period of time. - Specifically, near the end of the day. - (usually not comparable) Associated with the end of a period. - Not arriving or occurring until after an expected time. - Levied as a surcharge on a payment which has not arrived by a specified deadline. - Not having had an expected menstrual period. - (not comparable, euphemistic) Deceased, dead: used particularly when speaking of the dead person's actions while alive. (Generally must be preceded by a possessive or an article, commonly "the"; see usage notes. Can itself only precede the person's name, never follow it.) - 1969 December 7, Monty Python, “Full Frontal Nudity, Dead Parrot sketch”, in Monty Python's Flying Circus, spoken by Mr Praline (John Cleese): - 2022 December 14, Nadia Khomami, quoting Iman, “‘He’s not my “late” husband’: Iman speaks of grief over death of David Bowie”, in The Guardian: - “He is not my ‘late husband’. He is my husband,” she said, before discussing how the couple had managed to retain their independent identities while together. - - Existing or holding some position not long ago, but not now; departed, or gone out of office. - the late administration - Recent — relative to the noun it modifies. - the late war - 1595 December 9 (first known performance), William Shakespeare, “The Life and Death of King Richard the Second”, in Mr. William Shakespeares Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies: Published According to the True Originall Copies (First Folio), London: […] Isaac Iaggard, and Ed[ward] Blount, published 1623, →OCLC, [Act I, scene i], page 23, column 1: - - (astronomy) Of a star or class of stars, cooler than the sun. 使用する際の注意点 - (deceased): Late in this sense qualifies named individuals (in phrases like the late Mary Smith). In this sense, it generally is confined to usage with the person's full name, or a title, relationship, etc., that would be adequate by itself to identify the person: the late Mary Smith; the late queen; his late wife; the late Mary, Queen of Scots; but in most cases not the late Mary. 名詞 - (informal) A shift (scheduled work period) that takes place late in the day or at night. 反意語 副詞 late (comparative later, superlative latest) - After a deadline has passed, past a designated time. - Formerly, especially in the context of service in a military unit. - Not long ago; just now, recently. 同意語 派生語 - a day late and a dollar short - alate - as of late - belate - be late - better late than never - better to be late than be dead on time - casually late - day late, dollar short - early and late - fashionably late - get late - it's never too late to mend - it's too late for sorry - keep someone up late - late antique - late antiquity - late binding - late blight - late bloomer - late-blooming - late-bound - late-breaking - late capitalism - late capitalist - late-capitalist - latecomer - latecoming - lated - late effect - late fee - late innings - late in the day - late in the game - lateish - late lamented - lately - late model - late modern - late modernity - lateness - late night - late-night - late on - lateover - late pass - late position - later - late riser - lateshit - latesome - late-stage capitalism - late stage capitalism - late tackle - late-term - late-to-bedder - late to the ball - late to the game - late to the party - late-type star - late unpleasantness - late-wake - lateward - latewood - latish - latred - nonlate - of late - overlate - run late - sooner or later - sorry I'm late - stay up late - too late - two thousand and late - Walklate - you'll be late for your own funeral 参照 アナグラム 発音 - IPA: /ˈlɑ.te/ 発音 - IPA: /laːt/, /lat/ 派生語 - latly 派生した語 参照 - “lāt(e, adj.”, in MED Online, Ann Arbor, Mich.: University of Michigan, 2007. 参照 - “lāt(e, adv.”, in MED Online, Ann Arbor, Mich.: University of Michigan, 2007. 語源 3 From Old Norse lát (“conduct, demeanour, voice, sound”, literally “let, letting, loss”) (from Proto-Germanic *lētiją (“behaviour”), from Proto-Indo-European *lēid-, *lēy- (“to leave, let”). Cognate with Middle Low German lāt (“outward appearance, gesture, manner”), 古期英語 lǣtan (“to let”). More at let. 名詞 late 副詞 lātē (comparative lātius, superlative lātissimē) 関連する語 - lātus 参照 | 2 | | | lateのページの著作権 英和辞典 情報提供元は 参加元一覧 にて確認できます。 | Copyright (c) 1995-2026 Kenkyusha Co., Ltd. All rights reserved. | | | Copyright © Benesse Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved. | | | © 2000 - 2026 Hyper Dictionary, All rights reserved | | | Copyright (C) 1994- Nichigai Associates, Inc., All rights reserved. | | | DBCLS Home Page by DBCLS is licensed under a Creative Commons 表示 2.1 日本 License. | | | ※この記事は「北里大学医療衛生学部 医療情報学研究室」ホームページ内の「医学用語集」(2001.06.10. 改訂)の情報を転載しております。 | | | Copyright (C) 2026 ライフサイエンス辞書プロジェクト | | | 日本語ワードネット1.1版 (C) 情報通信研究機構, 2009-2010 License All rights reserved. WordNet 3.0 Copyright 2006 by Princeton University. All rights reserved. License | | | Copyright (C) 1994- Nichigai Associates, Inc., All rights reserved. 「斎藤和英大辞典」斎藤秀三郎著、日外アソシエーツ辞書編集部編 | | | Text is available under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (CC-BY-SA) and/or GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). Weblio英和・和英辞典に掲載されている「Wiktionary英語版」の記事は、Wiktionaryのlate (改訂履歴)の記事を複製、再配布したものにあたり、Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike (CC-BY-SA)もしくはGNU Free Documentation Licenseというライセンスの下で提供されています。 | | | CMUdict | CMUdict is Copyright (C) 1993-2008 by Carnegie Mellon University. | ピン留めアイコンをクリックすると単語とその意味を画面の右側に残しておくことができます。 | | ログイン | Weblio会員(無料)になると 検索履歴を保存できる！ 語彙力診断の実施回数増加！ | weblioのその他のサービス | ログイン | Weblio会員(無料)になると 検索履歴を保存できる！ 語彙力診断の実施回数増加！ |
