=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cities: Skylines launches on Stadia today, free for Pro members]
May 17, 2022 — Cities: Skylines on Stadia costs $39.99 normally, but is free for subscribers of Stadia Pro. The $10/month subscription currently houses over 50 games.
URL: https://9to5google.com/2022/05/17/cities-skylines-stadia-pro/

[Cities: Skylines joins Google Stadia, goes free with Pro]
May 17, 2022 · Cities: Skylines is joining Google Stadia from today with a free trial for all, while Pro subscribers can add it to their library.
URL: https://www.xda-developers.com/cities-skylines-google-stadia/

[Cities: Skylines and Far Cry Primal launch on Stadia today]
May 17, 2022 · Google announced that two games will be launching on Stadia today with both either purchased through the store or claimed through a subscription service alongside other announcements. The first...
URL: https://www.androidcentral.com/gaming/stadia/cities-skylines-and-far-cry-primal-launch-on-stadia-today

[Cities: Skylines - Wikiwand]
The game was first released for the Linux, OS X, and Windows operating systems on 10 March 2015. Console ports by Tantalus Media were released for the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 game consoles in 2017, for the Nintendo Switch in September 2018, and for Google Stadia in May 2022. A remastered edition, also by Tantalus, was released for the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S in February 2023. The ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Cities_Skylines

[Cities: Skylines - Stadia Edition - Stadiaffinity]
May 17, 2022 · Release date: 2022-05-17 Developer: Tantalus Media Game editor: Paradox Interactive
URL: https://www.stadiaffinity.com/game/Jdk4OD8P


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cities: Skylines launches on Stadia today, free for Pro members] ---
Google Stadia is adding Cities: Skylines today, and in a surprise, the game is a free addition to Stadia Pro! While it’s been available for around seven years at this point, Cities: Skylines is a beloved entry in the “management” simulation genre, with several expansions and countless updates over the years. The Stadia version of the game brings that to the cloud, with support for both keyboard/mouse and controller gameplay. Cities: Skylines on Stadia costs $39.99 normally, but is free for subscribers of Stadia Pro. The $10/month subscription currently houses over 50 games, with Cities: Skylines being one of its most notable for the time being, though it’s worth noting that Xbox Game Pass also offers the core game as a part of its subscription. You’re only limited by your imagination, so take control and reach for the sky! With an active Stadia Pro subscription, claim and play Cities: Skylines right now at no additional cost – or purchase for $39.99 on the Stadia store. New players can also pick up the “New Player Bundle” which includes the Industries, Mass Transit, and Sunset Harbor expansions along with the core game for $79. A bundle that includes all expansion packs is also available for $239. Google and Paradox Interactive, the developers of Cities: Skylines, are also offering a one-hour free trial of the game to anyone who wants to play it. The trial requires no active Stadia membership or account, simply a Google log-in. More on Stadia: - Stadia Changelog: Risk of Rain 2 update and a no-show at I/O - Ubisoft is bringing Roller Champions and a new Rabbids game to Google Stadia - Overcooked: All You Can Eat is now available on Stadia w/ 20% discount, free trial FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.


--- [Cities: Skylines joins Google Stadia, goes free with Pro] ---
Cities: Skylines joins Google Stadia, goes free with Pro As much as some corners would say there are no games on Google Stadia, the platform is doing a pretty good job at bringing new titles on a regular basis. This week’s edition of “This Week on Stadia” has a big hitter joining Pro, free trials to speak of and another Ubisoft game hitting the cloud. The headline news belongs to Cities: Skylines, the epic world-builder from Paradox Interactive. Not only is it now finally available on Google Stadia for $40, but it comes with a 60-minute free trial to poke around in first. You don’t even need a Stadia account. Alternatively, if you subscribe to Stadia Pro — which, if you play Stadia regularly, you should — you can add it to your library for no extra charge. Cities: Skylines isn’t the only piece of good news for Stadia players this week, though. Ubisoft’s support of the platform continues to grow and the latest from its back catalog to be ported over is Far Cry Primal. A little different from the usual Far Cry experience, Primal puts you back in the Stone Age and mixes open-world exploration, survival, and combat. “Welcome to the Stone Age, a time of danger and adventure. Far Cry Primal lives at the intersection of innovative open-world gameplay, massive beasts, breathtaking environments, and unpredictable savage encounters. Play as Takkar, a seasoned hunter and the last surviving member of your group. There is one goal: survive in a world where you are the prey.” Far Cry Primal hits the Stadia store for $30 at 4 p.m. Pacific Time on May 17. Also in the news is Nine to Five, a first-person shooter that has, until now, been in early access. The free-to-play 3v3v3 team shooter has seen a mixed response so far, but it does seem to have cross-play with PC at least. The 1.0 release sees new maps and game modes arrive, new weapons, extended progression, and more. A new multiplayer shooter is a bold move, so it’ll be interesting to see if the player count can stay high enough to make it a success. Other tidbits of news include a free play weekend coming up for Dawn of the Monsters, and to celebrate Pac-Man hitting the big 40, there will be a celebratory sale taking 50% off Pac-Man Mega Tunnel Battle. This one is actually a lot of fun, so you might want to check it out when it’s down to just $10. Source: Google


--- [Cities: Skylines and Far Cry Primal launch on Stadia today] ---
Cities: Skylines and Far Cry Primal launch on Stadia today Cities: Skylines can also be claimed on Stadia Pro. Get the latest news from Android Central, your trusted companion in the world of Android You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful What you need to know - Cities: Skylines launches on Stadia today and can be claimed through Stadia Pro or tried out with a 60-minute trial that does not require a Stadia account. - Far Cry Primal will be available in the Stadia store today to purchase or claimed through a Ubisoft+ subscription. - Free-to-play multiplayer shooter Nine to Five left early access this week with new content, improvements, and fixes. Google announced that two games will be launching on Stadia today with both either purchased through the store or claimed through a subscription service alongside other announcements. The first game available now is city management simulation game Cities: Skylines, which was announced last March. Cities: Skylines - Stadia Edition can be purchased through the store at $40 for the base game, $75 for the New Player Bundle, $240 for the game alongside all available DLC, or claimed with a Stadia Pro subscription. A 60-minute free trial is also active for anyone to try and does not require a Stadia account. The second game is 2016's Far Cry Primal, which will be available in the Stadia store later today at 7:00 p.m. ET. It will be $30 or can be played at no additional cost with a Ubisoft+ subscription. The game has been scheduled to come to the platform since last year. Google noted in its announcement that the 3v3v3 multiplayer shooter Nine to Five had left early access this week. The free-to-play game's 1.0 update includes new game modes, map, weapons, armor, an extended progression system, new events, improvements, and more. The company also announced that side-scrolling, kaiju beat-’em-up Dawn of the Monsters will be free next week starting May 26 through May 31 as part of the Play Days event, and Stadia-exclusive Pac-Man Mega Tunnel Battle will be on sale beginning May 22 to celebrate the yellow icon's 42nd birthday. Get the latest news from Android Central, your trusted companion in the world of Android Thomas Meyer fell in love with video games starting in the mid '90s with a NES, Super Mario Bros., Duck Hunt, and Jack Nicklaus' Greatest 18 Holes of Major Championship Golf. He hasn't stopped and is not planning to anytime soon. Freelance for Android Central and Windows Central.


--- [Cities: Skylines - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Cities: Skylines - Stadia Edition - Stadiaffinity] ---
Login Register SAVE THE GAME Cities: Skylines - Stadia Edition Release date: 2022-05-17 Developer: Tantalus Media Game editor: Paradox Interactive Your rating Remove rating Stadiaffinity score 0 / 5 0 ratings Affinity not aplicable Play on Stadia More info on StadiaHoy
