=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's Relationship Timeline]
Jul 14, 2025 · Tucker and Hudgens wed in Tulum, Mexico, on Dec. 2, 2023. The couple became first-time parents in July 2024 and are currently expecting baby No. 2. From sharing moments in ballparks to tying...
URL: https://people.com/tv/vanessa-hudgens-and-cole-tucker-relationship-timeline/

[Vanessa Hudgens Marries Baseball Player Cole Tucker. See The Photos - TODAY]
Dec 6, 2023 · The “High School Musical” star and Tucker celebrated their marriage on Dec. 2, 2023 with a weekend in Tulum, Mexico, Vogue Magazine reports. The ceremony took place at Azulik City of Arts, an art...
URL: https://www.today.com/popculture/vanessa-hudgens-marries-cole-tucker-wedding-rcna128385

[Inside Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's Mexican Destination Wedding]
Mar 11, 2024 · The 34-year-old singer and actress announced her engagement to the MLB shortstop, 27, in early 2023. The couple, who first met in 2020, went IG official the following year and have since been candidly open with their love and adoration for each other. Here, we break down Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's relationship timeline, including their digital meet-cute, how Tucker popped the question ...
URL: https://www.theknot.com/content/vanessa-hudgens-relationship

[Vanessa Hudgens Is Married to Cole Tucker! Learn All About Their Wedding in Mexico]
Dec 4, 2023 · Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker got married in Tulum, Mexico, on December 2, 2023. Here’s what we know about their wedding.
URL: https://www.brides.com/vanessa-hudgens-cole-tucker-mexico-wedding-8410261

[Vanessa Hudgens Celebrates Pregnancy and Family Joy with Husband Cole Tucker – Azat TV]
Vanessa Hudgens is expecting her second child with husband Cole Tucker. The actress celebrated her pregnancy with a chic pizza party and heartfelt social media posts. Vanessa showcased her baby bump in a zebrapatterned dress during a pizza party hosted by Airbnb...
URL: https://azat.tv/en/vanessa-hudgens-pregnancy-family-joy/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's Relationship Timeline] ---
142 captures 18 Nov 2021 - 14 Feb 2026 Jan FEB Mar 14 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260214124624/https://people.com/tv/vanessa-hudgens-and-cole-tucker-relationship-timeline/


--- [Vanessa Hudgens Marries Baseball Player Cole Tucker. See The Photos - TODAY] ---
Vanessa Hudgens and baseball player Cole Tucker have tied the knot! The “High School Musical” star and Tucker celebrated their marriage on Dec. 2, 2023 with a weekend in Tulum, Mexico, Vogue Magazine reports. The ceremony took place at Azulik City of Arts, an art installation "surrounded by nature, greenery, and foliage," Hudgens told Vogue. She wore an open-back Vera Wang gown, the first she tried on at the designer's atelier in New York City, for the ceremony and another Vera Wang dress for the reception. Hudgens told Vogue that, when it came to planning her wedding, she wanted to think "out of the box." “I knew I’d never been to a wedding that I’ve wanted my own wedding to be like," she said. Among the details she landed on? A veil embroidered with "Mrs. T" and their wedding date, and a phone-free reception, which she said led to a feeling of intimacy. “It was amazing because at the dinner, I would look around and everyone was talking to each other—our family and friend groups coming together and creating real relationships that I know they’re going to invest real time into. Seeing that and bringing everyone together and celebrating us, it was just so magical,” she said. Hudgens' six bridesmaids included actors Sarah Hyland and Alexandra Shipp, as well as her sister Sarah Hudgens. Tucker had 11 groomsmen including his brothers Carson and Quinn Tucker and baseball pro Cody Bellinger. She also told the outlet that her advice to other couples is to forgo the first look ahead of the ceremony. "Don’t do first looks, because seeing each other at the altar for the first time is the most emotional moment of my life,” she told Vogue. "I literally keeled over when I saw Cole and had to take a big breath and had to force myself to keep walking because I could have dropped to the floor." The two, who were first spotted together in late 2020, initially met on a Zoom meditation led by monk-turned-lifestyle-podcaster Jay Shetty, Hudgens told Entertainment Tonight in April 2021. The two announced their engagement in February 2023 on Instagram. "YES. We couldn’t be happier," the post read, alongside photos of the engagement near the Eiffel Tower in Paris, France. In the Vogue story about their wedding, Hudgens revealed that she had hinted to Tucker she wanted him to propose in Paris. "It’s the most romantic city in the world," she told Vogue, adding she was still "very surprised." "I dropped a hint that that would be the ideal place, but kind of forgot about it because I didn’t want to have any expectations on the trip," she said. "I just wanted to enjoy it for what it was, and he caught me completely off guard."


--- [Inside Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's Mexican Destination Wedding] ---
Inside Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's Mexican Destination Wedding It's the start of something new for Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker—because they're officially parents-to-be! On Sunday, March 10, the actress confirmed her pregnancy by showing off her growing baby bump on the Oscars red carpet. News of Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's pregnancy comes about three months after the couple swapped vows in Tulum, Mexico, on December 2, 2023. The bride opened up about hosting a nature-driven jungle destination wedding in an interview with Vogue, saying, "The planning process was definitely overwhelming. I knew I'd never been to a wedding that I've wanted my own wedding to be like, so I had to think out of the box." The 34-year-old singer and actress announced her engagement to the MLB shortstop, 27, in early 2023. The couple, who first met in 2020, went IG official the following year and have since been candidly open with their love and adoration for each other. Here, we break down Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's relationship timeline, including their digital meet-cute, how Tucker popped the question, and everything we know about their wedding weekend. - Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker got married on December 2, 2023, in Tulum, Mexico. - On March 10, 2024, Vanessa Hudgens confirmed she's expecting her first baby with Cole Tucker on the Oscars red carpet. - Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker were first spotted together in 2020, and later made their relationship IG official in 2021. - The couple reportedly got engaged in late 2022. Then, in February 2023, Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker announced their engagement on Instagram. In this article: - Cole Tucker and Vanessa Hudgens' Wedding Details - All About Cole Tucker, Vanessa Hudgens' Husband - Vanessa Hudgens' Engagement to Cole Tucker Cole Tucker and Vanessa Hudgens' Wedding Details Rumors of Vanessa Hudgens' wedding took social media by storm after the High School Musical star was seen wearing a white off-the-shoulder dress in a photo shared on X. The bride told Vogue that she wanted a nature-driven venue, and was ultimately captivated by Azulik Hotel, a location she had been following on social media for quite some time. "Finding a venue was the hardest part," she explained. "I knew I didn't want to do it at a beach, at a ballroom, or at a barn—these were all things I didn't want. Instead, I wanted to be surrounded by nature, greenery, and foliage." The ceremony was officiated by Jay Shetty, a popular monk and relationship expert. He was a fitting choice for the couple, as they met online during one of his Zoom meditations. Reflecting on the private celebration, the bride told the outlet, "It was genuinely the most magical weekend of my life. I am so grateful that we got to have a private wedding, and it helped that I took everyone's phones away. It was amazing because at the dinner, I would look around and everyone was talking to each other—our family and friend groups coming together and creating real relationships that I know they're going to invest real time into." Vanessa Hudgens' Wedding Dress Details Vanessa Hudgens' wedding wardrobe was nothing short of iconic. She began the weekend in Galia Lahav's Dean dress, a flowy, off-the-shoulder gown featuring a midriff cutout. "It was an immense honor and joy to see Vanessa Hudgens choose one of our designs for such a significant moment in her life," the brand's head designer Sharon Sever tells The Knot. "The dress she chose was such a perfect choice for her beachy welcome party." For the ceremony, she opted for a '90s supermodel look, per Vogue. Vanessa Hudgens' wedding dress was a Vera Wang masterpiece: she donned an ivory chartreuse bias-cut cowl neck slip dress with an open back. Her veil also boasted a major accessory trend, as it featured custom embroidery that read, "Mrs. T December 2nd, 2023." For the reception, she changed into a second Vera Wang dress that she could "throw around." The showstopper featured macrame lace and airy silk mousseline that she tossed and twirled as she danced all night long. All About Cole Tucker, Vanessa Hudgens' Husband So, who is Vanessa Hudgens' husband? Here, we break down everything to know about Cole Tucker. He's an MLB Player Cole Tucker is best known for being a Major League Baseball player, switching between shortstop and outfielder positions. He entered the MLB in 2014 when he was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates. After playing for various minor league teams, he made his MLB debut with the Pirates in 2019. He was acquired by the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2022 and elected free agency at the end of that season. He currently plays in the Colorado Rockies organization. He's Originally from Arizona Cole Tucker was born in Phoenix, Arizona, and grew up as a Diamondbacks fan. He attended Mountain Pointe High School in Phoenix and played on his school's baseball team. He went on to represent the US in the 2013 18U Baseball World Cup, and then later committed to playing baseball in college at the University of Arizona. He Currently Plays Baseball in Colorado After becoming a free agent in 2022, Cole Tucker signed a minor league deal with the Colorado Rockies. In February 2023, ahead of the 2023-2024 MLB season, Tucker posted a photo of himself in the Rockies uniform, writing, "Back on the Train 🤘🏽." Ever the supportive girlfriend, Vanessa Hudgens commented, "3 for meeee" in reference to his jersey number. He May Have Manifested His Relationship With Vanessa Hudgens Following the news of Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's engagement, fans of the Disney alum couldn't help but do their own research about her fiancé—and they found a compelling social media post that indicates Tucker may have manifested their romance. In 2012, when Tucker was just a teen, he Tweeted, "In search of: A girl who's down to watch High School Musical with me and scratch my back." We'd dare to say he never imagined he'd end up engaged to the Gabriella Montez. Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's Relationship Timeline How did Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker meet? When did they officially begin dating? We share everything you need to know in this comprehensive guide to Vanessa Hudgens and husband Cole Tucker's relationship timeline. November 2020: Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker Spark Romance Rumors We can trace Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's relationship back to late 2020 when the two were photographed together in Los Angeles. Tucker could be seen with his arms around Hudgens as they enjoyed a dinner date. February 2021: Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker Begin Dating Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker began dating in December, and they went Instagram official on February 14, 2021. (How's that for a Valentine's Day to remember?) The actress posted a photo of herself kissing her beau, writing, "It's you, it's me, it's us." Later that month, Tucker opened up about his girlfriend in an interview at MLB spring training. "I got a girlfriend and she's cool. She's awesome, I love her. But I don't want it to be, 'Oh, Cole's dating Vanessa … ' " he said at the time, noting that she'd be a frequent presence at the stadium. "I don't want it to be treated any differently than Mitch [Keller] having his wife down, or Ke'Bryan [Hayes] having his girlfriend come down. She's great. She'll be around. You will see her, but you saw the headline, it is what it is." April 2021: Vanessa Hudgens Reveals How She Met Cole Tucker In April, Vanessa Hudgens told Entertainment Tonight that she met her boyfriend on a Zoom meditation group, saying, "He's just kind of perfect for me." One month later, Hudgens appeared on The Drew Barrymore Show where she revealed that she made the first move. "If I want something or someone, I'm going after them," she reflected. "I fully just slid into his DMs and was like, 'Hey, it was nice to meet you.' So I think there is no shame in making the first move." Summer 2021: Vanessa Hudgens Attends Boyfriend Cole Tucker's Baseball Games With their romance confirmed and baseball season in full swing, Vanessa Hudgens spent the majority of summer 2021 attending Cole Tucker's baseball games around the country. She often posted photo dumps of herself in the stands with cheeky captions like "Do u like sports? Cause we do," and "Biiiiig sports gals." November 2021: Vanessa Hudgens and Boyfriend Cole Tucker Make Their Red Carpet Debut In the fall of 2021, Cole Tucker and Vanessa Hudgens made their red carpet debut as a couple. The duo attended the premiere of Hudgens' Netflix movie Tick Tick...BOOM! at the TCL Chinese Theatre in Los Angeles. "I'm so late posting these but I've been so overwhelmed by emotions (and busy with press) after this magical night," Hudgens wrote on Instagram. "I couldn't be more proud and honored to be apart of this special film." Just one month later, Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker marked their one-year anniversary on December 29. "1 year down @cotuck ❤️love👏🏽you👏🏽🤟🏽," Hudgens wrote on Instagram. Winter 2022: Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker Spark Proposal Rumors After another year of baseball games, red carpet appearances, and holiday celebrations, Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker sparked engagement rumors in late 2022. February 2023: Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker Confirm Their Engagement Finally, Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker publicly announced their engagement on February 9, 2023. The fiancés shared a collab post of the Paris proposal on Instagram, writing, "YES. We couldn't be happier 🤍" February 2023: Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker Celebrate With an Engagement Party On February 14, 2023—five days after the engagement reveal and on the second anniversary of taking their romance public—Vanessa Hudgens shared an Instagram photo of her hugging her fiancé in honor of Valentine's Day. The picture appears to be from an engagement party, as Hudgens is dressed in a white dress and gold balloons spelling "Mr. & Mrs." can be seen in the background. "Real magnetic love is out there," she wrote. "What a journey it was to get here but so worth it to get to my forever @cotuck 🥰 Happy Valentine's Day." The next month, she celebrated her proposal once again. She posed for a photo in front of silver balloons that spelled "Engaged" wearing a white one-shoulder column dress. She captioned the post with a ring and a smiley face emoji, and her fiancé sweetly commented, "Mrs T." October 2023: Vanessa Hudgens Celebrates Her Bachelorette Party Over Halloween weekend, the bride-to-be celebrated her upcoming nuptials with a spooky bachelorette party. Attended by her close friends and family members, including her bestie Sarah Hyland, Vanessa Hudgens' bachelorette party was nothing short of iconic. In black-and-white photos shared from the event, the group could be seen wearing coordinating black-and-white outfits with a celestial theme. December 2023: Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker Get Married Vanessa Hudgens' wedding to Cole Tucker took place in Tulum, Mexico on December 2, 2023. The two swapped vows at Azulik Hotel, with the bride telling Vogue, "I knew I didn't want to do it at a beach, at a ballroom, or at a barn—these were all things I didn't want. Instead, I wanted to be surrounded by nature, greenery, and foliage." March 2024: Vanessa Hudgens Confirms She's Pregnant at the Oscars Just three months after their nuptials, Vanessa Hudgens confirmed she and her husband are expecting their first baby! The actress, who served as one of ABC's Oscars Red Carpet hosts, attended the event in a form-fitting black dress that showed off her baby bump. Vanessa Hudgens' Engagement to Cole Tucker Vanessa Hudgens and Cole Tucker's engagement photos indicate that the proposal took place in Paris, France. In the first image shared on Instagram, Tucker hugs Hudgens from behind while she shows off her newly-blinged out ring finger. The second image provides a closer look at Vanessa Hudgens' engagement ring, which appears to be an oval-cut diamond set on a gold band (which just so happen to be two of the biggest engagement ring trends right now). The background of the photo shows off the Eiffel Tower and a statue of an angel on the Pont Alexandre III, which is considered to be the most ornate bridge in Paris.


--- [Vanessa Hudgens Is Married to Cole Tucker! Learn All About Their Wedding in Mexico] ---
5 captures 05 Dec 2023 - 14 Jan 2026 Dec JAN Feb 14 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260114013208/https://www.brides.com/vanessa-hudgens-cole-tucker-mexico-wedding-8410261


--- [Vanessa Hudgens Celebrates Pregnancy and Family Joy with Husband Cole Tucker – Azat TV] ---
No content
