=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[r/SeveranceAppleTVPlus on Reddit: Rewatched the series recently and I think Irving is key to what's really going on]
The discussion, titled "Rewatched the series recently and I think Irving is key to what's really going on," explores the significance of Irving, black goo, and Lumon's mysteries in the show. Commenters think the immediate appearance of Milcheck after Irving's black goo visions suggests brain monitoring. Some consider the black goo in Irving's visions as connected to his outie's paint or subconscious. Others propose the goo and Irving might be linked to Lumon's experiments, possibly involving reanimation or consciousness manipulation, drawing parallels to graphene research and the X-Files' black oil. One user notes Irving's outie seems to have prior knowledge of Lumon details. A podcast theory suggests Irving's innie might be accessing his outie's subconscious through dreams. The show's intro, featuring black goo, is also seen as potentially symbolic.AI summaries may include mistakes. Learn more.MoreLessSummary
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/SeveranceAppleTVPlus/comments/12qgj5w/rewatched_the_series_recently_and_i_think_irving/

[Severance: The Real Reason Why Innies Can't Doze Off (& How They're Stopped)]
Mar 10, 2022 · In Severance season 1, episode 2 “Half Loop,” veteran microdata refiner Irving – despite being the department's most loyal employee – dozes off in the middle of his shift. This causes Irving to experience a vivid hallucination involving black goo aggressively creeping into his cubicle and overtaking his desk.
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-workers-innies-dozing-off-sleep-dreams-prevented/

[Irving Bailiff - Severance Wiki]
Jul 23, 2025 · He consumes large amounts of coffee to induce sleep deprivation, which causes his Innie to fall asleep and dream about the painting. Since sleeping at work is forbidden at Lumon, this behavior leads to a wellness session with Ms. Casey. [5] He also sketches the painting while at work.
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/irving_bailiff

['Severance' breakdown: Black goo and other mysteries so far]
Feb 22, 2022 · While slightly hallucinating, Irving, played by John Turturro, noticed a siege of black goo that enveloped his office desk, one that only he noticed.
URL: https://www.sportskeeda.com/pop-culture/severance-breakdown-black-goo-mysteries-far

[Severance Season 1 Episode 2 Recap: Half Loop - TV Fanatic]
Feb 16, 2022 · Irving notes that Mark has taken away the framed photos. Mark says they will take new ones at Helly’s welcome party. Mark shows Helly what she’s supposed to do — sort the code evenly. Irving...
URL: https://www.tvfanatic.com/severance-season-1-episode-2-recap-half-loop/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [r/SeveranceAppleTVPlus on Reddit: Rewatched the series recently and I think Irving is key to what's really going on] ---
Rewatched the series recently and I think Irving is key to what's really going on When I rewatched the show I paid more attention to the intro and it really got me thinking about Irving, black goo and the whole Lumon mystery. When the show was on the first time, I (as I would expect many of us in the streaming era) would immediately press the ole "skip intro" button and get right into the next episode. In part, I'd skip it because I found the intro to be especially off-putting and creepy, but I'd also do it because most of the episodes end on a cliffhanger and I wanted to get to the resolution ASAP. Rewatching the intro over and over this time around got me thinking about three things... - Irving... 2) the black goo (specifically how and when it appears)... 3) what is lumon really up to - Irving... So why Irving? He is the only character who ties together all of the deep mysteries of the show. He is the one who hallucinates about being covered in the weird, seeping black goo. Before his first black goo episode, Dylan snipes at him about "dozing off", which makes us primed to believe that when Irving starts to see the black goo, he's asleep and dreaming. But is that what's happening? When it happens the first time, Milcheck is there IMMEDIATELY to take him to the wellness check. How? The hallucination/dream lasted only a few seconds, not even long enough for Dylan and Helly to really notice he's sleeping (if he was). He screams at the site of the black stuff, jumps from his desk, and that's when they take notice. In that instant, Milcheck is already there, ready to take Irving away. Irving is the first to have a "wellness" check with Ms. Casey in the show. He and Ms. Casey, to our knowledge, are the only ones who have some direct connection to the "testing floor", aka the room with the red light at the end of the hall. We see this room when Ms. Casey is "fired" from her position and sent away by Cobel. We're left to wonder what goes on there. Irving seems to know that room because that's what he paints over and over when we see his outie's life in the finale. Why is he obsessively painting this door? How does he know about the testing floor? It's mentioned over and over that he is the longest tenured member of MDR, been there for seven years by his own account during Helly's welcome party. He also scoffs at some of Dylan's incentives/rewards and say a little "back in my day" story about how coffee creamer was one of the original incentives. Irving is also the most devoted (at the start) to the Lumon religion. He can quote the handbook from memory and often does in a way that evokes the feeling of a preacher or religious devotee. He walks through the Perpetuity Wing like one would a cathedral or a holy site. This changes through the course of the show, but he's the last to join the other members of MDR in rebellion. So, he's been there the longest, he's the most indoctrinated in the Lumon religion and he somehow has a connection to the darkest doors within Lumon. 2) The black goo... it doesn't get much darker than this stuff. Rewatch the intro and see how it is used. It's most often used to smother Mark's character, either grabbing him from below or falling from above, the black goo is portrayed as an inescapable, suffocating, smothering entity. Near the end of the intro, the black goo covers Mark's face and then turns him (and several other unidentified characters) into slow-walking, goo-encapsulated zombies. Then that same goo grabs Mark and throws him into the recycle bin. In one of the later hallucinations, Irving sees Mark with one eye seeping the black goo. This stuff must matter for it to be used as much as it is in the intro and in Irving's reality breaks. 3) What's really going on then? What's with Irving, the black goo, the testing floor? My opinion here is heavily borrowing from other theories that have been posted on this sub, but my guess is Irving is a creation of Lumon. He may have been a real person at some point, but my guess is the Irving we meet in the show is a Lumon test subject, possibly a reanimated person/corpse, somehow made whole again with this weird black goo. I'm getting serious Westworld/Fallout 4 vibes from the show now. I've read several other theories that suggest the severed floors are Lumon's research lab for human cognition and consciousness. The ultimate aim being the ability to copy, clone and (or) replace human beings. I feel like it's 100% the latter, and Lumon is trying to replace all humans with synthetics. When Helly R, posing as Helena Eagan, is met by her father in the bathroom before she delivers her season-ending speech, he says that "soon they'll all be Kier's children". Once everyone has a Lumon chip in their head, Lumon will be able to make a full copy and eventually replace the real with the manufactured. So why do I feel like Irving is copy/zombie/replacement? Look at his "outie" life. It seems like all he does outside of Lumon is take care of his dog and paint the testing floor door. That's it. Look at Mark S., Dylan and Helly by comparison. They have much more going on with their outie lives. Irving looks like a solitary figure. Could he have been a sad veteran that took his own life some seven years ago? Could his death or disappearance go unnoticed by those around him because he had few if any interpersonal connections? Can the black goo replace or repair dead tissue to the point of bringing someone back to life? We see Irving examining black goo under his fingernails during Helly's welcome party... then he has his black goo dream... could the final scene of his painting just be a misdirection, suggesting that it was merely paint in his nails the whole time... and not Irving seeing the corruption that he's now made of? He sees the black goo in his nails, he sees something wrong within himself and not long after he has his first mental break/hallucination in the show. If Lumon isn't bringing people back to life or reanimating/repairing lifeless tissue into some sort of synthetic life, how did Mark's wife come back as Ms. Casey?


--- [Severance: The Real Reason Why Innies Can't Doze Off (& How They're Stopped)] ---
Warning: the following contains SPOILERS for Severance. Severance reveals that dozing off while on the severed floor leads to vivid and traumatic hallucinations for severed employees – but there's more to this than just maintaining worker productivity. In Apple TV+'s Severance, a dystopian sci-fi series that explores the ethics of advanced biotechnologies, nothing is truly what it seems. This is especially true for Lumon Industries' severed employees whose memories are split between their work and home lives. By preventing microdata refiners from dozing off, Lumon Industries is not just promoting productivity, it's also preventing employees' innies from dreaming about their outies' lives. In Severance season 1, episode 2 “Half Loop,” veteran microdata refiner Irving – despite being the department's most loyal employee – dozes off in the middle of his shift. This causes Irving to experience a vivid hallucination involving black goo aggressively creeping into his cubicle and overtaking his desk. Later, department supervisor Milchick takes Irving to Casey, the severed floor counselor, for a wellness check. Severance, through Irving's experience, shows that sleeping on the job is met with an immediate response, not just from the company, but also from the erring worker's very mind. This isn't just a way to prevent dips in productivity. In fact, this is related to the main purpose of the terrifying process of severance: outies are not supposed to know anything about work, and innies are not supposed to remember any non-work-related memories. However, if an innie dozes off while on the severed floor, that employee's dreams could undermine this purpose. This is because dreams are a combination of a person's imagination, their subconscious thoughts, and their memories. In short, if innies are allowed to sleep in the workplace, they could dream about memories and other information from their outie lives, which would defeat the very purpose of implanting severance chips into employees' brains. Although this isn't expressly discussed in the show, Severance's surreal and dream-like intro sequence hints at the importance of dreams. Moreover, while this reveals the imperfections of the severance chip, it also shows that the technology is capable of so much more than just bifurcating memories. Why Irving Hallucinates Black Ooze Neither Irving nor anyone else in the cast of Severance seem to be particularly alarmed about the harrowing hallucination that Irving experienced, suggesting that it's an expected effect of the severance chip. This means that the black ooze hallucination, whether it was tailored for Irving or not, is a regular part of the programming to scare employees into staying awake and prevent them from sleeping and dreaming on the job. While no other employee has experienced a similar hallucination prior to Irving, the black ooze is also present in the Severance intro sequence, in which a CGI version of Mark struggles with the black ooze that's leaking out of the garbage and imitating his physical form. Apart from a way to keep employees awake, the black ooze could also be a clue to the real purpose of the macrodata refinement department, which, as some viewers have suggested, could be related to cloning and the transfer of consciousness. Why Harmony Is Really Watching Over Mark As Mrs. Selvig, severed floor boss Harmony Cobell gives Mark's outie some chamomile cookies, mugwort bath bombs which contain lavender and eucalyptus, and advice about sleeping 8 hours per day. Chamomile and eucalyptus are both commonly used as relaxants, while lavender is scientifically proven to be as effective of a sedative as diazepam. These herbs are typically used not just for relaxation, but also for ushering in pleasant dreams before sleep. In short, Harmony is not just monitoring Mark's outie, she's also trying to keep Mark's mind relaxed, ultimately as a way of preventing Mark's outie from having any vivid dreams related to work. Petey's Reintegration Sickness Is A Waking Nightmare What happened to Petey is a preview of what could happen if severed employees were allowed to dream freely. After the process of reintegration, which reverses the severance process, Petey's innie memories bleed into his daily reality outside of the severed floor. Before Petey could reveal to Mark what he knows about Lumon Industries' real purpose and why employees' memories need to be bifurcated, he suffered a waking nightmare until he eventually succumbed to the effects of reintegration sickness and died. If Lumon Industries didn't do anything to control the dreams of both innies and outies, any severed employee could suffer a similar fate. Why Petey And June Sing Metallica's Enter Sandman The song “Enter Sandman” by Metallica, which Petey and his daughter June sing in a video shown during Petey's funeral, is another reference to the world of dreams and sleep. The song's main themes also reflect the relationship that severed employees have with their dreams, their own subconscious minds, and Lumon Industries. In “Enter Sandman,” the proverbial father figure is subverted and twisted into a dark custodian for the mythical sandman, setting up nightmarish images as he tucks his son in for bed. “Enter Sandman” is actually about Metallica vocalist James Hetfield's turbulent relationship with his own father. In Severance, “Enter Sandman” reflects how Petey sees Lumon Industries founder Kier Eagan, whom the company presents as a father figure to all severed employees. Similar to the child in “Enter Sandman,” severed employees are ushered into the world of nightmares by a father figure that's supposed to be protecting them. Lumon Industries Has Not Yet Perfected The Severance Chip Severance, through Lumon's strict rules about dozing off at work, reveals the current imperfections of the severance chip. Indeed, the evidence suggests that the memories of innies and outies remain connected through the subconscious mind. Harmony confirms this to be true when she makes Casey light a candle that was made by Mark's wife during Mark's wellness check. Instructed by Casey to sculpt out his feelings through clay, Mark's innie uses his hands to form a tree, which represents the location where his wife died. If a mere scent can prompt innies to be influenced by outie memories, unhindered dreaming could potentially wake them up from Gen Z's worst nightmare and completely undermine the intended effects of Lumon's severance chip. This means that dreams could hold the key to freeing people from the effects of severance. Severance releases new episodes Fridays on Apple TV+.


--- [Irving Bailiff - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! | Irving Bailiff | | | Also Known As | Irving B., Irv | |---|---| | Portrayed By | John Turturro | | Occupation | Senior Macrodata Refiner at Lumon Industries | | Status | Severed, Alive | | First Appearance | Good News About Hell | Irving Bailiff was the senior-most Macrodata Refiner at Lumon Industries. He was hired 9 years prior to the events of season 1,[1] but worked in MDR for three years, during quarters 870 - 882. He comes from a very regimented background and has a no-nonsense demeanor. As senior refiner, he took the Kier philosophy very seriously, abiding strictly by all of Lumon's rules, and would caution any colleagues in violation of even the most minor of those rules. At work, he had a reputation for falling asleep at his desk. He would have terrifying dreams about his cubicle being overtaken by thick black goo. Irving seemed to be punished less harshly than other Innies, likely because otherwise he was always such a diligent worker and committed infractions so infrequently. Irving developed strong romantic feelings towards Burt, the head of Optics and Design. They began to have intense but somewhat innocent meetings in various parts of the Severed Floor but before much could occur, these were ended by the abrupt retirement of Burt. At home in Leonora Lake, he obsessively paints pictures of the hallway leading to the Testing Floor elevator, despite the fact that, under the severance procedure, his Outie should have no memory of that location. He paints with great gusto, slathering thick acrylic paint with a pallet knife while listening to hard rock.[2] He may always listen to The Ace of Spades when he paints, as that song seeped into the black goo dreams his innie experienced at work. He has a dog, Radar, who is a very good boy, although he does not bark when someone enters Irving's home without Irving present. Irving walks to a payphone to call an unknown someone about innie and outie communication. Irving’s father was in the US Navy. Irving has U.S. military medals displayed in his home, but we do not know in which branch Irving served himself. He demonstrates strong investigative skills and a deep loyalty to principles and order. His work style is light blue shirts, suspenders, a bow tie, sweater vests, and other prim, fussy clothing. His outie style is more relaxed and cool, black sweaters, paint-spattered pants, and a black leather jacket. He drives a 1978 Chevy Nova sedan. His outie told Burt that before meeting him, he had never been loved and didn’t know what it felt like. His outie still doesn't.[3] Irving’s Innie mentioned after Helly started working in MDR that he has worked at Macrodata Refinement for three years,[4] making him the longest-tenured employee in his department. He repeatedly paints the same image of the long, dark hallway leading to the Testing Floor. He consumes large amounts of coffee to induce sleep deprivation, which causes his Innie to fall asleep and dream about the painting. Since sleeping at work is forbidden at Lumon, this behavior leads to a wellness session with Ms. Casey.[5] He also sketches the painting while at work. According to his Wellness Facts, Irving likes the sound of radar, which is the name of his outie's dog. He is fond of movies and has a machine that can play them. He is also fond of records. He is a powerful swimmer and popular dancer, and is skilled at kissing and lovemaking. Hi, kids. What’s for dinner?Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (11:50) I know you and Petey were close. He was the only one who really appreciated your humor.Season 1, Episode 1, Good News About Hell (16:54) You look trim, Mark. I wonder if you were food poisoned.Season 1, Episode 3, In Perpetuity (12:49) Mark used to find it funny to interrupt Petey’s announcements. With gas having.Season 1, Episode 3, In Perpetuity (13:34) It’s an unnatural state for a person to have no history. History makes us someone. Gives us a context. A shape. But waking up on that table, I was shapeless. But then I learned that I work for a company that has been actively caring for mankind since 1866.Season 1, Episode 3, In Perpetuity (37:28) It’s the Perpetuity Wing. It’s the Eagans. It’s the living soul of Lumon and everything she stands for, not a bingo match.Season 1, Episode 3, In Perpetuity (40:29) Excellent decision, Mark. This is an idolatrous text that should be brought to him immediately.Season 1, Episode 4, The You You Are (18:44) As Kier said, 'Be ever merry.'Season 1, Episode 5, The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design (37:49) This is inappropriate workplace commentary. And I’m self-reporting you.Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (09:52) To be clear, I do not approve of mapping.Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (10:08) You are sparing with the facial encouragements.Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (11:04) Everything we do here is important.Season 1, Episode 6, Hide and Seek (17:19) You smug motherfucker.Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (38:30) You’re not severed. You walk out of here with your memories. You carry them home with you every night. No one can rip them away from you, snuff them out. Like they never existed. Like you never existed!Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (38:34) Let’s burn this place to the ground.Season 1, Episode 7, Defiant Jazz (42:29) Okay, kids. Let’s find out what’s for dinner.Season 1, Episode 8, What’s for Dinner? (29:20) It's not our world up there.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (34:07) The last time I was happy was when all I knew was MDR. When I was good at my job and not trying to be happy.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (38:33) Dylan. I'm your favorite perk.Season 2, Episode 1, Hello, Ms. Cobel (40:44) We should eat it.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (15:46) What did you tell him, dumbass?Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (16:17) I feel silly for suggesting we eat that animal. I suppose it sounded alarmist and paranoid. Irrational.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (20:31) What you said to me last night, it was cruel. Helly was never cruel.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (42:52) She's a fucking mole!Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (44:53) Yes! Do it, SETH!Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (45:16) It's okay. It's all okay. Just remember, hang in there.Season 2, Episode 4, Woe's Hollow (46:51) If you would like to contribute to this article, please join our Severance Show Discord and submit your suggestions in the #wiki channel.


--- ['Severance' breakdown: Black goo and other mysteries so far] ---
The cast of the series (Image via Apple TV+)Apple TV+ recently dropped its newest series, Severance. It weaves the story of Mark Scout, played by Adam Scott, who has been a willing participant in the Severance program, which separates the memories of their non-work lives from their work lives.The series has used a unique backdrop of a subtle, drab, monochrome office and has combined its thriller elements. This combination makes for a delightfully wicked blend of entertainment for an Apple TV+ series that has found success in its originality and mystery.Apple TV+@AppleTVPlusFrom Ben Stiller, work life balance takes on a whole new meaning in this mysterious thriller. Adam Scott, Britt Lower and Patricia Arquette star in #Severance on Apple TV+.2:55 AM · Feb 17, 20229521688From Ben Stiller, work life balance takes on a whole new meaning in this mysterious thriller. Adam Scott, Britt Lower and Patricia Arquette star in #Severance on Apple TV+.All of this information just begs the question: How does one breakdown the first two episodes?Disclaimer: This article reflects the author’s views.A closer look at the mysteries seen in Severance so farThe strange program itselfThe cast of Severance (Image via Apple TV+)The sinister program in the show was made to use volunteers to wipe out memories of their past selves. When they would return to their personal lives, they would live out their daily routines with their memories still separate from their work. It's almost as if the program had been designed for people to take part in and forget about what they just witnessed, so as to not talk about what they were working on in the company.The work was clearly extremely confidential. Its execution seemed shrouded in mystery and used a narrative that there’s more that meets the eye.The disappearance and reappearance of PeteyAdam Scott in Severance (Image via Apple TV+)In the first episode, it was mentioned that Petey was severed and did not return from the program. He was replaced by Mark, who welcomed newcomer Helly. Petey’s abrupt dismissal has raised a few questions. He met up with Mark at a restaurant and attempted to tell an inside-joke from the office, but Mark looked puzzled.Petey invited Mark, who called in sick, to a greenhouse where the former lived, and tried to explain the meaning of the program, and claimed that they were separated from other departments. During his time out, Petey mapped out the floor of the building in an attempt to see what the company was hiding.He even went on to talk about his re-integration sickness where he was seen weeping for a short time, which could also explain why Mark was crying at the beginning of the episode. Petey later suffered from a bloody nose and some serious hallucinations, which may be due to his re-integration.The black gooAdam Scott as Mark Scout in Severance (Image via Apple TV+)Unlike Apple TV+’s Suspicion or Netflix's Stay Close, Severance decided to go much deeper with its horror-thriller mythology. While slightly hallucinating, Irving, played by John Turturro, noticed a siege of black goo that enveloped his office desk, one that only he noticed. The tar-like substance only targeted Irving and caused him to panic. However, it was never fully explained what the substance was.The black goo was even shown in the intro of the series, where the subjects of the program seemed to assimilate into the darkness and become a part of it.


--- [Severance Season 1 Episode 2 Recap: Half Loop - TV Fanatic] ---
No content
