=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Leopoldo Franca (1959 - 2012) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
Sep 19, 2012 · On 28 July 1983, Franca married Ana Cristina Leonardos (born 1 February 1960). Ana had studied at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro from 1979 to 1983, being awarded a degree of Language-Literature (Portuguese and English) in 1983.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Franca/

[Leopoldo Penna Franca (born April 7, 1959), Brazilian mechanical ...]
Leopoldo Penna Franca, Brazilian Mechanical engineer. Member Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, American Mathematics Society, Society Mathematics Aplicada e Computacional Brazil, Association Brasileira de Ciencias Mecanicas.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/leopoldo_penna.franca/3397751

[Leopoldo Penna Franca - Wikipedia]
Leopoldo Penna Franca (April 7, 1959 - September 19, 2012, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) [1] was a Brazilian-American mathematician. He received his PhD in 1987 from Stanford University in engineering under Thomas J. R. Hughes.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leopoldo_Penna_Franca

[What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum]
They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war.
URL: https://www.nationalww2museum.org/war/articles/what-and-when-v-j-day

[Leopoldo Penna Franca - Wikidata]
1 reference add value maintained by WikiProject WikiProject Mathematics edit 0 references add reference
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q195741


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Leopoldo Franca (1959 - 2012) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Leopoldo Luis Cabo Penna Franca Quick Info Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Biography Leopoldo Penna Franca was the son of Leonel Penna and Marlene Franca. He was known to his family friends and colleagues as Leo. After attending primary and secondary schools in Rio de Janeiro, where he showed extraordinary abilities in mathematics and physics, he entered the Pontifical Catholic University in Rio de Janeiro to study mechanical engineering. The Pontifical Catholic University was founded in 1940 by the Roman Catholic Church becoming the first private higher education institution in Brazil. It gained university status in 1946 and began teaching graduate courses in 1963. It was particularly strong in mechanical engineering and in fact the first student to be awarded an M.Sc. in 1965 obtained a Mechanical Engineering degree. Let us note that he was the first student to be awarded a Master of Science Degree from a Brazilian Institution.Franca began his studies at the Pontifical Catholic University in 1977 and was awarded his B.S. in mechanical engineering in 1981. He continued to undertake postgraduate studies advised by Francisco Eduardo Mourao. Mourao had been awarded a degree in Mechanical and Electrical Engineering from the Federal University of Minas Gerais in 1962, a Master's Degree in Aeronautical and Mechanical Engineering from the Instituto Tecnológico de Aeronáutica in 1968 and a PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Minnesota in 1974. Franca had been awarded a CAPES fellowship to support his Master's Degree which he was awarded in 1983. CAPES is a Foundation within the Ministry of Education in Brazil whose central purpose is to coordinate efforts to improve the quality of Brazil's faculty and staff in higher education through grant programs. CAPES is particularly concerned with the training of doctoral candidates. On 28 July 1983, Franca married Ana Cristina Leonardos (born 1 February 1960). Ana had studied at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro from 1979 to 1983, being awarded a degree of Language-Literature (Portuguese and English) in 1983. After the award of his Master's Degree, Franca wished to continue to study for a Ph.D. supported by CAPES and was able to undertake research at Stanford University in California, USA. At Stanford University, Franca's studies were supervised by Thomas Joseph Robert Hughes (born 1943). Hughes was awarded B.E. and M.E. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from Pratt Institute and an M.S. in Mathematics and a Ph.D. in Engineering Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Before being appointed to Stanford, he taught at the California Institute of Technology and the University of California, Berkeley. At Stanford he served as Chairman of the Division of Applied Mechanics, Chairman of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chairman of the Division of Mechanics and Computation, and held the Mary and Gordon Crary Chair of Engineering. Franca and his co-authors wrote the following in a celebration volume for the 60th birthday of Thomas J R Hughes [6]:- Tom Hughes made pioneering contributions in many fronts in finite element methods and computational mechanics and has been a prime mover in bringing these fields to a new era. We see all of this in the contributions he made directly, in the contributions he made through the students he trained and associates he guided, and in the contributions made by the friends and colleagues he inspired.Franca's wife Ana came to Stanford University with her husband and studied Master's courses in Education, then Master's courses in Sociology and undertook research for a Ph.D. in social sciences applied to education beginning in 1985. Before the award of his Ph.D., Franca had over ten papers in print. His early papers were written with several fellow students and staff in the Division of Applied Mechanics, Durand Building, Stanford University. These included Franca's thesis advisor Thomas J R Hughes and Michel Mallet, Marc Balestra, Isaac Harari, together with the Brazilian post-doctoral student Abimael Fernando Dourado Loula who had been awarded his doctorate by the Federal University in Rio de Janeiro in 1979. Franca's first papers include: (i) T J R Hughes, L P Franca and M Balestra, A New Finite Element Formulation for Computational Fluid Dynamics: V. Circumventing the Babuska-Brezzi Condition: A Stable Petrov-Galerkin Formulation of the Stokes Problem Accommodating Equal-Order Interpolations (1986); and (ii) T J R Hughes, L P Franca and M Mallet, A New Finite Element for Computational Fluid Dynamics: I. Symmetric Forms of the Compressible Euler and Navier-Stokes Equations and the Second Law of Thermodynamics (1986). These papers have, the following abstracts:- (i) A new Petrov-Galerkin formulation of the Stokes problem is proposed. The new formulation possesses better stability properties than the classical Galerkin/variational method. An error analysis is performed for the case in which both the velocity and pressure are approximated by interpolations. Combinations of interpolations which are unstable according to the Babuska-Brezzi condition (e.g., equal-order interpolations) are shown to be stable and convergent within the present framework. Calculations exhibiting the good behaviour of the methodology are presented.Franca was awarded a Ph.D. in 1987 for his thesis New Mixed Finite Element Methods. This has the following Abstract (see [8] or [9]):- (ii) Results of Harten and Tadmor are generalized to the compressible Navier-Stokes equations including heat conduction effects. A symmetric form of the equations is derived in terms of entropy variables. It is shown that finite element methods based upon this form automatically satisfy the second law of thermodynamics and that stability of the discrete solution is thereby guaranteed ab initio. New finite element methods are proposed for mixed variational formulations. The methods are constructed by adding to the classical Galerkin method various least squares like terms. The additional terms involve integrals over element interiors, and include mesh dependent coefficients. The methods are designed to enhance stability. Consistence is achieved in the sense that exact solutions identically satisfy the variational equations. Applied to several problems, simple finite element interpolations are rendered convergent, including convenient equal order interpolations which are generally unstable within the Galerkin approach. The methods are divided into two classes according to the manner in which stability is attained: (1) Circumventing Babuska-Brezzi condition methods; (2) Satisfying Babuska-Brezzi condition methods. Convergence is established for each class of methods. Applications of the first class of methods to Stokes flow and compressible linear elasticity are presented. The second class is applied to the Poisson, Timoshenko beam and incompressible elasticity problems. Numerical results demonstrate the good stability and accuracy of the methods.After the award of his doctorate, Franca spent a year as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Stanford in the United States. In 1988, while Ana Leonardos continued to work on her Ph.D., the couple were divorced. From 1988 to 1993 Franca worked in the National Laboratory for Scientific Computing at the Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics of the Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia. This was the first Brazilian institution in the field of scientific computing and computational modelling. He began attending conferences, for example the Fifth Brazilian Symposium on Piping and Pressure Vessels held at Salvador, Brazil in 1988. In the same year, he also attended the congress ENCIT organised by the Brazilian Association of Mechanical Sciences, and the Eleventh Congresso Nacional de Matemática Aplicada e Computacional held in Ouro Preto, Brazil. In the following year he attended the Pan American Congress of Applied Mechanics held in Rio De Janeiro in January 1989, the Fifth International Symposium on Numerical Methods in Engineering held at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Switzerland in September 1989, and the Seventh International Conference on Finite Element Methods in Flow Problems held at the University of Alabama, Huntsville in April 1989. For title of lectures given by Franca at various conferences throughout his career and papers he published in journals, see THIS LINK. On 16 May 1991, Franca married Lucia Valadao. They had two daughters, Louise and Lais. In 1993 he went to Purdue University in West Lafayette, Indiana, USA as a Visiting Professor. Later in 1993 he was appointed as Visiting Professor at the University of Colorado at Denver. In 1994 he became an Associate Professor at the University of Colorado, then, two years later, he became the director of the Center for Computational Mathematics there. He was promoted to full professor in 1999. It was while he was at the University of Colorado, that he had a life-threatening health problem which came to a head in 2004 [1]:- Leo struggled against a severe liver disease, caused by Wilson's disease, which required a liver transplant he could finally accomplish in 2004, at the University of Colorado Hospital. About this, he wrote on his Facebook page: 'It was a dramatic year. I spent one year waiting for a liver transplant. Towards the end I was having a series of liver failures until I completely passed out. The doctor told my wife I had three days to live, and he was hoping a liver would appear. It did! And all ended well!'In 2008 he left the United States and returned to Brazil where he spent the years until 2010 as a Visiting Professor at the Civil Engineering Department of the Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for Graduate Studies and Research at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. There he became colleagues of José Luis Drummond Alves, Alvaro L G A Coutinho and Fernando Rochinha, the authors of [1], who write that during these two years:- ... he joined our team at the High Performance Computing Center at the Alberto Luiz Coimbra Institute for Graduate Studies and Research at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, collaborating as a consultant in Research and Development projects for the oil industry. Many fruitful meetings and discussions with Leo around themes such as fluid-structure interaction and its underlying intricacies provided deeper insight into the problem and, by all means, enjoyable moments to be remembered by all team members.In 2011 he briefly joined National Laboratory for Scientific Computing at the Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia but, later in the same year, he joined the new IBM Research Laboratory in Brazil, the first IBM Research Laboratory in the Southern Hemisphere. It was established in June 2010, with locations in São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Ulisses Mello, engineer and associate director at IBM Research, Brazil, led the Smarter Natural Resources & Discovery strategic group and it was this group that Franca joined as a senior research scientist. He worked on projects involving applications of computational mathematics and mechanics to the oil industry. While working for IBM, Franca was one of six members of staff who applied for a patent for Method to assess the impact of existing fractures and faults for reservoir management on 9 November 2012. Sadly Franca had died two months before the application for the patent was filed. The Abstract for the Patent reads [10]:- Assessing the impact of existing fractures and faults for reservoir management, in one aspect, may comprise employing a numerical mesh to generate a geomechanical model, the numerical mesh representing a geological reservoir and its surrounding regions, the numerical mesh comprising delimitation associated with regions and layering of geology without constraining the numerical mesh to explicitly represent a fault or fracture, initialising the geomechanical model to define initial stress-strain compatible with measured stress in well locations associated with the geological reservoir, generating a fluid-flow model employing the numerical mesh, solving for a coupled solution of the fluid-flow model and the geomechanical model, and employing the solved fluid-flow model and the geomechanical model to assess the impact.The Patent was granted on 12 July 2016. The authors of [1] give this overview of the topics on which Franca worked:- His experience in mechanical engineering with emphasis in numerical methods allowed him to act, among others, on the following subjects: stabilised methods for fluids, solids and acoustics, residual-free methods, and methods for enhanced transport equations. Leo's publication record includes works on stabilised methods, Galerkin least squares methods, unusual stabilised methods, residual-free bubbles, discontinuous enrichment methods, and Petrov-Galerkin enrichment methods.You can see the range of his work from the titles of his papers at THIS LINK. During his career, Franca received many awards. These included: the Outstanding Research Award from the University of Colorado Denver College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (1997 and 1999); and the R H Gallagher Young Investigator Award and Medal from the U.S. Association for Computational Mechanics (1999). He was elected a fellow of the International Association for Computational Mechanics in 2002 and a fellow of the U.S. Association for Computational Mechanics (2007). In 2005 he was listed as a Highly Cited Author in the Institute of Science Index. A search today (August 2022) of the Web of Science Index shows that Leopoldo P Franca is cited 7242 times. He was an active member of the Advisory Board of International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering and of Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering. Franca died suddenly following a heart attack in September 2012 at the age of 53. The authors of [7] write:- Leo was a highly cited author ... and during his brilliant career he had a major impact in the development and analysis of innovative finite element methods. Leo ... was a generous, polite and funny friend who loved good food and travelling. He is survived by his wife Lucia and his two daughters Louise and Lais. He will be dearly missed by his several friends all over the world. References (show) - J L D Alves, A L G A Coutinho and F A Rochinha, Leopoldo Luis Cabo Penna Franca (April 7, 1959-September 19, 2012), International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering 93 (2) (2012), 135-136 - Leopoldo Luis Cabo Penna Franca, escavador.com. https://www.escavador.com/sobre/2276700/leopoldo-luis-cabo-penna-franca - Leopoldo Penna Franca: mechanical engineer, prabook.com. https://prabook.com/web/leopoldo_penna.franca/3397751 - Leopoldo Penna Franca, American Men & Women of Science. A biographical directory of today's leaders in physical, biological and related sciences (Gale, Cengage Learning, Detroit, 2008). - Leopoldo Penna Franca, Who's Who in the World (Marquis Who's Who, New Providence, NJ, 1992). - L P Franca, T E Tezduyar and A Masud, Finite Element Methods: 1970's and Beyond (CIMNE, Barcelona, 2004). - A Madureira and F Valentin, Leo Franca, 1959-2012, NA Digest 12 (40) (Monday, 1 October 2012). - New Mixed Finite Element Methods, Scientific and Technical Aerospace Reports 26 (17) (1988), 2567. - New Mixed Finite Element Methods, Dissertation Abstracts International. The sciences and engineering (University Microfilms, 1988), 3335; 3453. - Patents by Inventor Leopoldo Luis Cabo Penna Franca, JUSTIA Patents. https://patents.justia.com/inventor/leopoldo-luis-cabo-penna-franca Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Leopoldo Franca: Other websites about Leopoldo Franca: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update November 2022 Last Update November 2022


--- [Leopoldo Penna Franca (born April 7, 1959), Brazilian mechanical ...] ---
Background Franca, Leopoldo Penna was born on April 7, 1959 in Rio de Janeiro. Son of Leonel Penna and Marlene Franca. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Franca, Leopoldo Penna was born on April 7, 1959 in Rio de Janeiro. Son of Leonel Penna and Marlene Franca. Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering, Pacific Union College, Rio de Janeiro, 1981; Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering, Pacific Union College, 1983; Doctor of Philosophy, Stanford University, 1987. Postdoctoral researcher, Stanford University, California, 1987; assistant researcher, LNCC, Rio de Janeiro, 1988-1989; associate researcher, LNCC, Rio de Janeiro, since 1989. Member Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, American Mathematics Society, Society Mathematics Aplicada e Computacional Brazil, Association Brasileira de Ciencias Mecanicas. Married Ana C. Leonardos, July 28, 1983 (divorced April 1988). Married Lucia Valadao, May 16, 1991.


--- [Leopoldo Penna Franca - Wikipedia] ---
Leopoldo Penna Franca (April 7, 1959 – September 19, 2012, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) was a Brazilian-American mathematician. He received his PhD in 1987 from Stanford University in engineering under Thomas J. R. Hughes. After graduation, he worked at the pt:Laboratório Nacional de Computação Científica - LNCC in Brazil. From 1993 to 2011, he was a full professor and researcher of mathematics at the University of Colorado Denver. From 2008 to 2010, he was a visiting professor and researcher of mathematics at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro - UFRJ / Coppe at the Civil Engineering Department in collaboration to Alvaro Coutinho. From 2011 until 2012, he worked for IBM Research Brazil. He was known for his work on stabilized finite element methods. He was a recipient of the United States Association for Computational Mechanics - USACM. Received in 1999 the  Gallagher Young Investigator Award for "outstanding accomplishments in computational mechanics, particularly in the published literature, by a researcher 40 years old or younger". He was listed as an ISI Highly Cited Author in Engineering by the ISI Web of Knowledge, Thomson Scientific Company.


--- [What (and When) Is V-J Day? - The National WWII Museum] ---
On September 1, 1945, President Harry S. Truman addressed the nation by radio. “The thoughts and hopes of all America—indeed of all the civilized world—are centered tonight on the battleship Missouri,” Truman said. “There on that small piece of American soil anchored in Tokyo Harbor, the Japanese have just officially laid down their arms. They have signed terms of unconditional surrender.” The president went on to proclaim the following day, Sunday, September 2, “to be V-J Day—the day of formal surrender by Japan.” The United States still marks each September 2 as V-J Day with ceremonies honoring the sacrifices of the men and women who served in the Pacific war. Yet by September 2, 1945, celebrations of Japan’s surrender had already been taking place around the United States for weeks. Some of the most iconic photographs of V-J Day celebrations, if not the war itself, were actually taken on August 14, 1945, not September 2. Why can the date of V-J Day vary so widely? The answer lies in the complicated events of August to September 1945 in the Pacific theater. From Hiroshima to Tokyo In July 1945, Allied leaders met in the German city of Potsdam to discuss the strategy for ending the war against Imperial Japan. Germany had already been defeated and had accepted the Allied terms of “unconditional surrender.” Among other critical decisions, the Allied leaders—Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, US President Harry S. Truman, and British Prime Minister Clement Attlee, who replaced Winston Churchill during the conference—agreed that the Soviet Union would join the war against Japan by invading the occupied region of Manchuria. The day before the conference began, however, the United States successfully detonated the world’s first atomic bomb in the Trinity test. While the results of the test were not made public, Truman knew of its success. With both the Soviet commitment to join the war and the existence of the atomic bomb, the Allies issued the Potsdam Declaration on July 26 calling on Japan to accept terms of unconditional surrender, or face “prompt and utter destruction.” Two days later, Japanese Prime Minister Kantarō Suzuki appeared to reject the terms of the Potsdam agreement during a press conference. On July 31, Truman authorized preparations for the use of atomic weapons against Imperial Japan.1 On August 6, 1945, three American B-29 bombers, including the Enola Gay, appeared over the skies of Hiroshima, Japan. At 8:15 a.m., the Enola Gay dropped a single atomic bomb over the city. Less than a minute later, it detonated, killing at least 80,000 people instantly. Despite the destruction, the Japanese government made no official response, and a militant faction in Emperor Hirohito’s cabinet argued that the war should continue. Three days later, on August 9, another B-29 named Bockscar dropped a second atomic bomb, this time on the southern Japanese city of Nagasaki. That same day, the Soviet Union invaded Manchuria. Hirohito now stepped into the decision-making process personally. In the early hours of August 10, Tokyo time, the emperor announced to his war cabinet that he supported accepting the terms of the Potsdam Agreement. The cabinet then assembled a statement in accordance with the emperor’s decision. The agreement was transmitted to the Allies by letter through Switzerland.2 In it, the Japanese government conveyed that it was prepared to accept the terms of the Potsdam proclamation, but with Hirohito retaining his prerogatives as a sovereign ruler. News of the decision reached Washington, D.C., on the morning of August 10 local time; discussions began within Truman’s cabinet and with Allied leaders later that day. The following day, a tentative statement of agreement with these terms was sent by Washington to Tokyo with the stipulation that the authority of the emperor and the Japanese government would be subject to the Supreme Commander of the Allied powers. However, no official response was immediately received and, in the meantime, B-29 raids using conventional bombs continued against Japanese cities.3 On the night of August 13–14, American B-29s dropped leaflets on Japanese cities announcing that the emperor had transmitted possible terms of surrender to the Allies. This shocking public revelation precipitated a new crisis in the Japanese war cabinet. Hirohito reiterated his intention to end the war and recorded a message announcing his decision to the Japanese people later that night. Hours later, a rejectionist faction within the government launched an attempted military coup to destroy the emperor’s recording and prevent surrender. By the morning of August 15, however, the plot had been defeated and the conspirators committed suicide. 4 At noon Tokyo time on August 15, the emperor’s recording was broadcast over Japanese national radio. Never using the term “surrender” itself, Hirohito stated that his government would accept the terms of the Potsdam Declaration. This was the first time the emperor had ever spoken directly to the Japanese people. 5 Celebrations at Different Times News of Japan’s intention to surrender reached Washington, D.C., on the evening of August 14 due to the time zone difference with Tokyo. At 7 p.m., Truman addressed the press in the Oval Office and announced the news from Tokyo. Celebrations erupted across the country, most iconically in Times Square, New York. As a result, many of the images Americans associate with the end of the war were taken on August 14. In the United Kingdom, the following day—August 15—was formally declared as V-J Day and remains so to the present day. Japan commemorates August 15 as the end of the war as well. In his press conference, however, Truman stated explicitly that “proclamation of V-J Day must wait upon the formal signing of the surrender terms by Japan.” The formal surrender of Imperial Japan was scheduled for two weeks later, on August 31, but because of severe weather, it was delayed until September 2, 1945. The surrender took place on the deck of the USS Missouri as a Japanese delegation signed formal surrender documents with General Douglas MacArthur, the Supreme Commander of Allied forces for the occupation of Japan. Due to the time difference with Washington, Truman announced the signing of the formal surrender documents on the evening of September 1, 1945. He then proclaimed the following day as the United States’ official V-J Day. Crowds again gathered around the country to celebrate Japan’s formal surrender. Commemoration Dates Vary Due to the complexities of the events surrounding the end of the Pacific war, V-J Day has been, and is, commemorated on a variety of dates: August 15, the anniversary of Hirohito’s announcement in local time; August 14, the date of Hirohito’s announcement in the United States; and September 2, the anniversary of Japan’s formal surrender The United Kingdom, for instance, officially commemorates V-J Day on August 15 of each year. Australia recognizes August 15 as Victory in the Pacific Day (V-P Day). V-J Day is typically seen as the final end of World War II. Adding complexity, however, is another date that receives little recognition today: December 31, 1946, more than a year after Japan’s surrender. This was the date of Truman’s announcement of “a proclamation terminating the period of hostilities of World War II.” By doing so, Truman formally ended 53 “war and emergency statutes” that had been enacted to assist the war effort and, later, facilitate demobilization. With Truman’s announcement, the United States formally ended its involvement in the largest conflict in human history. Bradley W. Hart, PhD Bradley W. Hart is a World War II Military Historian at the Jenny Craig Institute for the Study of War and Democracy. Cite this article: MLA Citation: APA Citation: Chicago Style Citation:


--- [Leopoldo Penna Franca - Wikidata] ---
Leopoldo Penna Franca (Q195741) Appearance mathematician (1959-2012) | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | Leopoldo Penna Franca | mathematician (1959-2012) | Statements 19 September 2012 2 references 18 January 2013 Leopoldo Franca, 1959-2012 (undetermined language) 2 0 references Identifiers Sitelinks Wikipedia(3 entries) - arzwiki ليوبولدو بينا فرانكا - enwiki Leopoldo Penna Franca - ptwiki Leopoldo Franca
