=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dior - Wikipedia]
On 17 July 2000, Dior Homme lead designer Patrick Lavoix was replaced by Hedi Slimane. Notable Dior releases that year were watches such as the distinctive "Malice", which features bracelets made of "CD" links, as well as the "Riva". John Galliano then began to release his own Dior watches ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dior

[A New Creative Era Begins at Dior as Kim Jones Steps Down]
Before Jones, Belgian designer Kris Van Assche was at the creative helm of Dior Homme from 2007 to 2018 and Hedi Slimane from 2000 to 2007. Patrick Lavoix was creative director of Christian Dior Monsieur from 1992 until Slimane arrived, changed ...
URL: https://wwd.com/fashion-news/designer-luxury/kim-jones-dior-jonathan-anderson1236894818-1236894818/

[History]
Patrick Lavoix becomes Creative Director of Christian Dior Monsieur. ... A British designer with a rock ’n’ roll spirit, known for his sense of extravagance, John Galliano reinvented the Dior haute couture tradition in 1996 by fusing it with his dreamlike imagination.
URL: https://www.galeriedior.com/en/history

[DIOR TAPS SLIMANE FOR MEN'S WEAR Byline: Miles Socha PARIS -- Chri..]
Slimane’s appointment comes less than a week before the presentation here of the Dior collection for fall/winter 2000-2001, designed by Patrick Lavoix, artistic director of Christian Dior Homme since 1992.
URL: https://wwd.com/fashion-news/fashion-features/feature/article-1196158-1711261/

[Who Is Christian Dior? A History of the Brand & Designer]
: Hedi Slimane becomes creative director of Christian Dior Monsieur and changes its name to Dior Homme.
URL: https://wwd.com/fashion-news/fashion-features/feature/who-is-christian-dior-1236187242/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dior - Wikipedia] ---
Christian Dior SE (French: [kʁistjɑ̃ djɔʁ]), commonly known as Dior, is a French multinational luxury goods company that is controlled and chaired by Bernard Arnault, who also heads LVMH. As of December 2023, Dior controlled around 42% of the shares and 57% of the voting rights of LVMH. In addition, the Arnault family held a further 7% of the shares and 8% of the voting rights of LVMH as of that date.
The original fashion house was founded by French designer Christian Dior in 1946 to make haute couture items. Clothing is now produced by Christian Dior Couture, which is a subsidiary of LVMH, whereas Christian Dior SE is a holding company that controls LVMH. Bernard Arnault's daughter, Delphine Arnault, has been the CEO of Christian Dior Couture since February 2023. Bernard Arnault's eldest son, Antoine Arnault, is the CEO of Christian Dior SE. In August 2025, Dior opened its first permanent spa in the United States, housed in its newly renovated House of Dior flagship on Madison Avenue in New York City; designed by Peter Marino, the spa offers personalized skincare diagnostics and advanced treatments such as cryotherapy, microdermabrasion, and LED therapy




--- [A New Creative Era Begins at Dior as Kim Jones Steps Down] ---
Updated 10:46 a.m. ET Jan. 31 The gears are in motion for creative renewal at Dior. On Friday, the French fashion house said Kim Jones has decided to leave his position as artistic director of men’s collections after a fruitful and acclaimed seven-year run. The development is sure to further fuel speculation that Loewe fashion star Jonathan Anderson may soon be installed at Dior, a possibility mooted for months — and discussed openly by luxury analysts. “Dior needs newness to recapture market attention,” analyst Luca Solca, head of global luxury goods at Bernstein, told WWD on Friday, calling Jones’ exit “a step in the right direction.” You May Also Like “Our job is to ascertain the health of the businesses and their prospective value as deserving capital allocation choices for institutional investors. And the luxury industry is all about creativity, product appeal and desirability,” Solca explained. “There is a reason why creative directors are paid what they are.” In a brief statement shared Friday morning, Dior expressed “its deepest gratitude” to Jones, who has “accelerated the development of men’s collections internationally and has greatly contributed to the worldwide influence of the house by creating an inspiring wardrobe that is both classic and contemporary, and connected to some artists of our time.” The British designer‘s resignation came one week after he paraded Dior’s fall 2025 menswear on a minimalist set of grand, white staircases — and was decorated as a Knight of the Legion of Honor, France’s highest civilian decoration. There was no mention of any successor in the release, and Dior declined further comment. Jones’ next move could not immediately be learned, though it is understood he may be plotting new creative challenges beyond fashion. “It was a true honor to have been able to create my collections within the house of Dior, a symbol of absolute excellence,” Jones said in the statement. “I express my deep gratitude to my studio and the ateliers who have accompanied me on this wonderful journey. They have brought my creations to life. “I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the artists and friends I have met through my collaborations. Lastly, I feel sincere gratitude toward Bernard and Delphine Arnault, who have given me their full support,” he added. Delphine Arnault, chairman and chief executive officer of Christian Dior Couture, said she was “extremely grateful for the remarkable work done by Kim Jones, his studio and the ateliers. With all his talent and creativity, he has constantly reinterpreted the house’s heritage with genuine freedom of tone and surprising, highly desirable artistic collaborations.” One of the world’s most prominent menswear designers, Jones also logged seven years at Louis Vuitton before joining Dior, parlaying his zest for exotic travel into ultra-luxurious collections with understated cool and sly functionality. Three months ago, Jones also stepped down at Fendi after an eventful four-year collaboration that saw the Roman house dabble with collaborations and destination shows. His successor at Fendi has yet to be named. His title there was artistic director of haute couture, ready-to-wear and fur collections for women. In his absence, Silvia Fendi is now overseeing all the collections until a successor is named. To be sure, Jones catapulted Dior menswear onto the radar of hypebeasts by collaborating with the likes of Kaws, Daniel Arsham, Shawn Stussy, 1017 Alyx 9SM and Raymond Pettibon. In 2020, roughly 5 million people — about the population of Ireland or New Zealand — registered for a chance to buy his limited-edition Air Jordan 1 OG Dior sneakers. Over the last few years, his collaborations have been more esoteric and varied, with celebrities like Travis Scott, cultural institutions including the Charleston Trust and leading artists including Amoako Boafo, Kenny Scharf, Hajime Sorayama, Peter Doig and, most recently, South African master potter Hylton Nel for Dior’s spring 2025 collection. At Dior, Jones also accrued a reputation as a gifted showman. Sets for his shows have featured a 39-foot-tall robot sculpture, replicas of the Pont Alexandre III bridge and Christian Dior’s Granville home, and hydraulic lifts that made models rise and then disappear from the runway. He added itinerant shows to his workload at Dior, which reached a zenith in 2022 with a men’s pre-fall collection unveiled against the backdrop of the pyramids of Giza near Cairo, Egypt. Before Jones, Belgian designer Kris Van Assche was at the creative helm of Dior Homme from 2007 to 2018 and Hedi Slimane from 2000 to 2007. Patrick Lavoix was creative director of Christian Dior Monsieur from 1992 until Slimane arrived, changed the name of the brand to Dior Homme and ramped up its influence. A popular, peripatetic figure on the fashion scene, Jones counts a slew of famous friends — from Demi Moore and David Beckham to Donatella Versace, Naomi Campbell and Kate Moss — and cultivates numerous interests outside of fashion, including the Bloomsbury Group, botany, zoology and “Star Wars” paraphernalia. In recent years his name has been floated for a variety of European fashion houses, including Versace, Burberry and Armani. A graduate of Central Saint Martins in London and a globe-trotter extraordinaire, Jones has had a storied fashion career, with John Galliano snapping up his graduate collection. His own menswear label, launched in 2003 and prized for its sporty, streetwise flair, lasted for eight seasons and attracted the attention of Dunhill, where he was creative director from 2008 to 2011. In 2020, the designer was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in Queen Elizabeth II’s Birthday Honours List for services to fashion. The same year, the Council of Fashion Designers of America handed him the International Men’s Designer of the Year Award. In 2019, WWD honored Jones as its Menswear Designer of the Year at its flagship Apparel and Retail CEO Summit. Jones also took home British Fashion Awards in 2006, 2009, 2019 and 2021. Early in his career, he also worked for Alexander McQueen, Mulberry, Hugo Boss and Umbro.


--- [History] ---
History Discover the richness of the House through the work of Christian Dior and his six successors. Birth of Christian Dior Childhood in Granville Christian Dior is born in Granville, Normandy, on January 21, to Alexandre Louis Maurice Dior and Marie-Madeleine Dior (née Martin), the second of five children. The family is comfortably off thanks to its fertilizer and chemicals manufacturing business founded in 1832. Christian Dior at 1 year of age, January 1906. Les Rhumbs The Dior family settles in Les Rhumbs villa, in the heights of Granville. Paris The Dior family moves to the 16th arrondissement of Paris, keeping the Les Rhumbs villa for holidays and family gatherings. Inside the apartment of the Dior family, 9, rue Louis-David, circa 1925 Golden youth During the 1920s, Christian Dior frequents the cultural milieu in Paris and makes friends with the artists of the time. Galerie Jacques Bonjean Christian Dior opens an art gallery with his friend Jacques Bonjean at 34 rue La Boétie. “Our ambition,” he said in 1956, “was to have shows there centred on the masters we admired most: Picasso, Braque, Matisse, and Dufy, and the painters we knew personally and already held in high esteem: Christian Bérard, Salvador Dalí, Max Jacob, the Berman brothers…” In 1932, he enters into a partnership with Pierre Colle to open another gallery at 29 rue Cambacérès. In 1933 they hold an exhibition dedicated to Surrealism. Death of Madeleine Dior Dior’s mother dies. Due to bad investments, his father’s business collapses. Obituary notice of Madeleine Dior, 4 May 1931. Christian Dior illustrator Christian Dior starts to sell his drawings to milliners and couture houses including Jean Patou, Schiaparelli, Maggy Rouff, Worth, Balenciaga, Molyneux, and Paquin. He also works as an illustrator for Le Figaro newspaper and Jardin des Modes magazine. Christian Dior (right) at Robert Piguet, circa 1939. Photograph by Willy Maywald. Mobilization in the army Christian Dior is called up for military service. Demobilized the following year, he joins his father and sister in Callian, in the south of France. Menu designed by Christian Dior during his mobilization period, 2 January 1940. Lucien Lelong Christian Dior is employed by the house of Lucien Lelong as a designer. Catherine Dior His sister Catherine is denounced as a résistante (member of the French Resistance) and deported to Ravensbrück, from which she is liberated in 1945. Creation of Christian Dior's fashion house Creation of Christian Dior's fashion house Christian Dior and the industrialist Marcel Boussac join forces to create the Christian Dior couture house. On December 16, the couture house opens at 30 Avenue Montaigne, with three ateliers and a staff of 85 people. Fashion show for the first Haute Couture collection, in the salons of 30 Avenue Montaigne, 12 February 1947. First collection The first collection, Spring–Summer 1947, is presented on February 12, in the salons of 30 Avenue Montaigne. Dior names his new lines Corolle and En 8. Carmel Snow, the editor-in-chief of Harper’s Bazaar, declares: “My dear Christian, your dresses have such a New Look!” Press release of the first collection, Spring-Summer 1947. Parfums Christian Dior On March 4, Christian Dior Parfums is founded and Dior’s childhood friend, Serge Heftler-Louiche, is appointed director. The first perfume, Miss Dior, is launched in December. On 9 September 1947, in Dallas, Christian Dior being rewarded the Fashion Oscar by Stanley Marcus. Christian Dior-New York Christian Dior-New York opens on Fifth Avenue with an exclusive collection of luxury ready-to-wear and accessories created on the premises. Christian Dior Perfumes New York Inc. is launched the same year. Christian Dior preparing the first collection Christian Dior-New York, Spring-Summer 1949. Magazine Elle, 27 June 1949. Milly-la-Forêt Christian Dior buys the Moulin du Coudret, an old mill at Milly-la-Forêt near Paris, where he can relax between collections. Christian Dior in Milly-la-Forêt, 1949. Launch of Diorama's perfume Diorama perfume, 1949. Legion of Honor Christian Dior is awarded the French Legion of Honor for his contribution to the textile industry and fashion craftsmanship. Christian Dior being awarded the Legion of Honor by James de Coquet, senior reporter at Le Figaro, in his estate in Milly-la-Forêt, 9 February 1950. Show in London On April 26, he presents his collection to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother and her daughter Princess Margaret at the French embassy in London. Presentation of Haute Couture collection Spring-Summer 1950 at the Savoy Hotel in London, 25 April 1950. La Colle noire Christian Dior buys the Château de La Colle Noire in Montauroux, in the South of France. Publication of Je suis couturier (Talking about fashion) The Dior company has now grown to a staff of 900 people. Following a series of pieces in the magazine ELLE in the summer of 1951, Christian Dior publishes his first book, Je Suis Couturier (published in English as Talking about Fashion in 1954). Excerpt from an article published in Elle magazine, 27 August 1951 A sectional view of the townhouse at the corner of Avenue Montaigne and the Rue François Ier shows the organisation of the fashion house. Christian Dior London Christian Dior (C.D.) Models Ltd. is established in London. Caracas The first Christian Dior boutique in Latin America opens in Caracas, Venezuela. An almost exact replica of 30 Avenue Montaigne, it is staffed by personnel trained in France to produce the Parisian collections made-to-measure for the new clientele. Presentation brochure for the House of Christian Dior: companies and associated firms worldwide, 1953. Roger Vivier The Christian Dior-Delman company is created, producing custom-made shoes designed by Roger Vivier. Later, in 1958, the brand is replaced by 'Christian Dior by Roger Vivier'. Moving in on boulevard Jules-Sandeau Christian Dior moves into an apartment on boulevard Jules-Sandeau, in the 16th arrondissement of Paris. Christian Dior in his private mansion at 7, boulevard Jules-Sandeau, 1957. Publication of Christian Dior's Little Dictionary of Fashion Christian Dior’s Little Dictionary of Fashion is published in the United States and Great Britain. Fashion show at Blenheim Palace On November 3, the Duchess of Marlborough holds a Christian Dior show at Blenheim Palace in the presence of Princess Margaret to raise money for the British Red Cross. With more than 1,600 guests, it establishes the House’s name amid the British aristocracy. Presentation of the Fall-Winter 1954 collection at Blenheim palace. Footage supplied by British Pathé. Opening of the boutique Opening of the boutique on the corner of avenue Montaigne and rue François 1er, decorated by Victor Grandpierre. Parfums Christian Dior launches its first lipstick boxed sets in 22 different shades. Sorbonne lecture On August 3, Christian Dior gives a lecture followed by a fashion show at the Sorbonne's Grand Amphithéâtre in Paris. This famous photograph by Willy Maywald with model Renée wearing the Bar suit (Spring-Summer 1947 Haute Couture collection) was taken on the occasion of a lecture given by Christian Dior at the Sorbonne in 1955. Publication of Dior by Dior Christian Dior publishes his autobiography, Dior by Dior, which will be translated into several languages. Dior by Dior, published by Amiot-Dumont Editions, 1958. Diorissimo Launch of Diorissimo perfume, with lily of the valley as its principal note. Time Magazine On March 4, Christian Dior appears on the cover of Time magazine. Cover of Time magazine, 4 March 1957. Death of Christian Dior Christian Dior dies of a heart attack in Montecatini, Italy, during the night of October 24. In accordance with his wishes, Yves Saint Laurent, his first assistant at the studio since 1955, is appointed Creative Director of the fashion house. A report was broadcast on 30 October 1957 after Christian Dior's death. Yves Saint Laurent Yves Saint Laurent In 1955, aged only 19, Yves Saint Laurent was named assistant to Christian Dior. Following the sudden passing of the founding couturier in October 1957, he became the Creative Director of the House. His emblematic first collection, Trapèze, freed the body and instilled a spirit of emancipation, encapsulating the youth of the 1960s. His bold designs were inspired, among other things, by the Beatniks, for the Dior Fall-Winter 1960 collection. An avant-garde vision of the fashion world. Yves Saint Laurent, film by Séraphin Ducellier (S75) The first collection by Yves Saint Laurent for Christian Dior Yves Saint Laurent presents his first collection on January 30. It features the innovative Trapèze line, which marks a turning point in the history of the House of Dior. A page from the collection chart for the Spring-Summer 1958 collection. This document lists the looks by typology according to the activity and the time of the day. The look is identified thanks to a sketch, its atelier, its fabric, its name, and the name of the model who will be presenting it. Marc Bohan In November, Marc Bohan is appointed as the new Creative Director of Christian Dior A designer for Jean Patou, then assistant designer to Robert Piguet, Marc Bohan joined the House of Dior in 1958 as Creative Director of the London subsidiary. In 1960, he became Creative Director of the Parisian couture house, for which he created the Slim Look, reflecting contemporary ideas of femininity. Fascinated by the world of art, and particularly the abstract expressionism of Jackson Pollock, Marc Bohan designed modern silhouettes, cut with an elegant simplicity, for Dior over almost 30 years – a unique style embraced by many Hollywood stars. Marc Bohan, film by Séraphin Ducellier (S75) Eau Sauvage Eau Sauvage, the first Dior eau de toilette for men, is created by Edmond Roudnitska, revolutionizing masculine fragrances. Eau de toilette Eau Sauvage, 1966. Dior Makeup Serge Lutens becomes Creative and Image Director of Dior Makeup, where he stays for 12 years before being replaced by Tyen in 1980. Miss Dior Philippe Guibourgé creates Miss Dior, the couture house's ready-to-wear line. Baby Dior On 8 November, Princess Grace of Monaco opens the first Baby Dior boutique at 28, avenue Montaigne. Inauguration of the Baby Dior boutique, in the presence of Princess Grace de Monaco accompanied by Marc Bohan, 8 November 1967. © INA. Frédéric Castet Frédéric Castet, head of the tailoring workshop since 1953, becomes Creative Director of the Haute Fourrure collections. Christian Dior Monsieur Marc Bohan creates the Christian Dior Monsieur line. It is later directed by Christian Benais, then Gérard Penneroux, before Dominique Morlotti takes the reins in 1983. Poison Creation of the perfume Poison. Isabelle Adjani is guest of honor at a grand ball held at the Château de Vaux-le-Vicomte to celebrate its launch. 40th anniversary of the House of Christian Dior To celebrate the 40th anniversary of the House of Christian Dior, a large retrospective exhibition is organized at the Musée des Arts Décoratifs, inaugurated by President François Mitterrand. Gianfranco Ferré Gianfranco Ferré becomes Creative Director of Dior women’s collections Driven by a postmodern vision of fashion, the Italian designer celebrated Dior codes and gave haute couture a new lease on life through the architectural elegance of his suits and the opulence of grand evening dresses. A passionate art lover like Christian Dior, he was inspired by the palette of Paul Cézanne for his Fall-Winter 1995-1996 Haute Couture collection, coinciding with the painter’s retrospective at the Grand Palais. Gianfranco Ferré, film by Séraphin Ducellier (S75) Patrick Lavoix Patrick Lavoix becomes Creative Director of Christian Dior Monsieur. John Galliano On October 14, John Galliano replaces Gianfranco Ferré A British designer with a rock ’n’ roll spirit, known for his sense of extravagance, John Galliano reinvented the Dior haute couture tradition in 1996 by fusing it with his dreamlike imagination. His hybrid vision combined eclectic sources of inspiration, highlighting the cultural and artisanal riches of the world through the virtuosic skills of the Dior ateliers. Enhanced by spectacular scenography, each of his shows was conceived as a voyage into the extraordinary. John Galliano, film by Séraphin Ducellier (S75) Lady Dior In 1995, during an official visit to Paris, Bernadette Chirac presents Diana, Princess of Wales, with a brand-new Dior bag, renamed, in her honor, the Lady Dior. For the 50th anniversary of the House of Dior, a large exhibition is organized at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Princess Diana wears the first Dior dress created by John Galliano to the launch party in December 1996. Christian Dior museum The Musée Christian Dior opens in Christian Dior’s childhood home, Les Rhumbs, in Granville, Normandy. Les Rhumbs villa, Christian Dior's childhood home, is today the Musée Christian Dior. Dior Joaillerie Dior Joaillerie is founded, with Victoire de Castellane as Creative Director. J’adore Launch of the perfume J’adore Hedi Slimane Hedi Slimane becomes Creative Director of Christian Dior Monsieur and changes its name to Dior Homme. François Demachy François Demachy becomes Perfumer-Creator of the House of Dior. Kris Van Assche Kris Van Assche follows Hedi Slimane as Creative Director of Dior Homme. John Galliano leaves Dior He is replaced by assistant designer Bill Gaytten, who designs the next four collections. Raf Simons Raf Simons becomes Creative Director of the Dior women’s collections The Belgian designer, a graduate of the prestigious Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Antwerp, reworked the timeless codes of Dior with his refined, minimalist signature. Throughout his collections, he reinterpreted Christian Dior’s flower-woman with her gracious curves, transforming her into an architectural silhouette, or masterfully revisiting the New Look as a pantsuit, reflecting his resolutely contemporary spirit. Raf Simons, film by Séraphin Ducellier (S75) Peter Philips Peter Philips becomes Creative and Image Director of Dior Makeup. Peter Philips' portrait as shot by Richard Burbridge. In October, Raf Simons leaves and is replaced by Serge Ruffieux and Lucie Meier. Maria Grazia Chiuri Maria Grazia Chiuri becomes Dior’s first female Creative Director Since her arrival at Dior, Maria Grazia Chiuri has stood for universal empowerment and strong sisterhood in its most essential form. The messages conveyed by her collections, designed as manifestos, celebrate the values promoted by feminist (r)evolutions, transcending expectations and stereotypes. Her bold vision reinvented timeless House icons and codes with every season and every creative dialogue. Through a host of collaborations with artists and artisans from all over the world, Maria Grazia Chiuri has forged precious ties between savoir-faire and cultures, turning each Dior fashion show into a masterpiece of collective commitment. Maria Grazia Chiuri, film by Séraphin Ducellier (S75) Haute Couture Spring-Summer 2022 collection. Christian Dior: Designer of Dreams Christian Dior celebrates its 70th anniversary. The retrospective exhibition “Christian Dior: Designer of Dreams” opens at the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in Paris before traveling around the world. Kim Jones On 19 March 2018, Kim Jones is named Creative Director of Dior men's collections Francis Kurkdjian is named Perfume Creation Director. Opening of La Galerie Dior Seventy-five years after the first Christian Dior collection was shown, the House of Dior reinvents its birthplace, 30 Avenue Montaigne. La Galerie Dior, opening within its walls, is a testament to the visionary boldness of Christian Dior and his six successors: Yves Saint Laurent, Marc Bohan, Gianfranco Ferré, John Galliano, Raf Simons, and Maria Grazia Chiuri. Featuring a unique scenographic narrative, La Galerie Dior embodies the spirit of Parisian Haute Couture while perpetuating the memory of this historic address. Jonathan Anderson Jonathan Anderson is named creative director of Women's, Men's and Haute Couture collections. A visionary designer with a remarkable career, Jonathan Anderson is the first Creative Director since Mr. Dior himself to work on all House collections: Women's, Men's and Haute Couture.


--- [DIOR TAPS SLIMANE FOR MEN'S WEAR Byline: Miles Socha PARIS -- Chri..] ---
DIOR TAPS SLIMANE FOR MEN’S WEAR Byline: Miles Socha PARIS — Christian Dior has added another headline-grabbing designer to its stable. The French fashion house said late Thursday that it has signed Hedi Slimane as its new men’s wear designer, confirming reports in these columns June 19 and ending months of heated speculation about where the former Yves Saint Laurent men’s wear designer might land. Slimane, 32, who earned wide acclaim for his sharply tailored, often unapologetically androgynous designs for YSL Rive Gauche Homme, starts at Dior on July 17 and will be responsible for creating a new image for its men’s clothing and accessories lines. The first Slimane-designed Dior men’s collection will be unveiled in Paris next January. In nabbing Slimane, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton outmaneuvered a number of high-profile suitors, including Gucci Group NV, which had pursued negotiations to launch a Hedi Slimane label, and Prada Group, which had considered Slimane for a post at Jil Sander following the resignation of the founding designer in January. Slimane’s appointment comes less than a week before the presentation here of the Dior collection for fall/winter 2000-2001, designed by Patrick Lavoix, artistic director of Christian Dior Homme since 1992. In a separate communique Thursday, Dior announced Lavoix’s departure from the company and thanked him for a “successful” nine-year collaboration that created an image of prestige, elegance and refinement for Dior men’s wear. Neither Lavoix nor Slimane could immediately be reached for comment. In a statement, however, Slimane said: “I am very attached to Paris and to the tradition particular to French fashion. That is why it seems natural for me to take my place on Avenue Montaigne [where Dior is headquartered] and to participate in the future of Christian Dior and the evolution of this great house.” Sidney Toledano, president of Christian Dior Couture, added: “Our intention is to have Hedi Slimane carry on with Dior men’s wear the formidable accomplishments John Galliano has achieved for Dior women’s wear over the past three years.” With his trendy faux-hawk haircut and brooding presence, Slimane emerged as one of the most intriguing and in-demand fashion talents in years. Plucked from the marketing ranks at Rive Gauche men’s wear, which he was given carte blanche to revamp, Slimane emerged as a risk-taking, trend-setting designer, waking up a sleepy house with designs he described as seductive, including slim leather trench coats, narrow suits and sheer shirts. However, shortly after Gucci acquired YSL as part of a plan to build a luxury group late last year, a schism emerged over the creative pecking order, and Slimane resigned in March. Gucci commenced negotiations with Slimane shortly thereafter, but, absent a deal, speculation began heating up that he might land elsewhere, including Jil Sander, despite Prada chief Patrizio Bertelli’s insistence that he had no intentions of hiring a marquee name.


--- [Who Is Christian Dior? A History of the Brand & Designer] ---
The birth of the house of Dior is the focus of the new Apple TV+ period drama “The New Look,” which focuses on how Christian Dior and his contemporaries navigated the horrors of World War II and resuscitated French haute couture. “Monsieur Christian Dior, the stout and startled-looking grand vizier of the high-fashion Paris dressmakers, is the main reason most women look the way they do today,” Collier’s Weekly reported in 1955, eight years after the couturier set the fashion world spinning with his waist-cinching, fan-skirted New Look dresses. Within years of founding his house in 1947, Dior had become the locomotive of the French fashion industry, his designs spawning an empire that set the template for the modern fashion business, replete with such innovations as licensing, accessible products like stockings and fragrances, and collections tailored to certain markets. You May Also Like By 1953, the business grossed a whopping $15 million annually, employed 1,500 people and accounted for 55 percent of all Paris couture exports. Today, the brand is a jewel in the crown of luxury magnate Bernard Arnault, the founder of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, who has owned Dior since 1984. Though LVMH does not break down revenues by brand, Bernstein analyst Luca Solca estimates that Dior brings in annual revenues of 15 billion euros from fashion and beauty, making it one of the world’s most powerful luxury brands. Although his trajectory was cut short with his death in 1957, Dior cut a wide swath in fashion history, thanks to memorable designs that glorified female beauty and invoked desire around the world. For him, fashion was feeling. “It cannot be reasoned,” he once said. But his leap to the forefront of global fashion was not a given. He was born in 1905 in Granville, a provincial coastal town in the Normandy region of France, to an industrialist father, Maurice, and a housewife mother, Madeleine Martine. Maurice Dior and family members ran a group of chemical companies, which landed the Dior name on such products as fertilizers. Dior’s mother, transfixed by the refined traditions of the bourgeoisie, was known for her elegant outfits and dedication to a beautiful lifestyle, reflected in her furniture, interior decoration and flowers. That affected her five children, notably Christian, who loved gardening and fancy parties, and designed costumes for local events and carnivals. But he was frequently described as a moody, taciturn child, prone to solitude. The family moved to Paris in time for Dior’s higher education, and his parents initially envisioned a diplomatic career for their son upon his graduation from the Institute of Political Sciences. But Dior’s interests were artistic, principally architecture, music, drawing and painting. He opened a gallery in 1928 with an antique dealer friend, working with avant-garde artists such as Salvador Dalí, Alberto Giacometti, Pablo Picasso and Man Ray. After his family lost its fortune in the Great Depression, Dior learned fashion drawing and started selling designs to magazines and couturiers including Jean Patou, Nina Ricci, Maggy Rouff and Balenciaga. In 1938, he was hired by Robert Piguet as a draftsman, playing a role in the romantic fashions that dominated until World War II. Dior’s career was interrupted by the conflict, during which he served as a private first class in the engineering corps. He returned to Paris in 1941 and joined Lucien Lelong, then a leading French fashion house, where he worked with Pierre Balmain. In his biography, “Christian Dior and I,” the designer recalled that he enjoyed his work at Lelong immensely. “I had neither the responsibility of putting my designs into production nor that of selling them,” he wrote. Then came a chance encounter with a childhood friend and a director of the house of Philippe & Gaston, a dressmaker owned by Marcel Boussac, the French textile mogul known as the cotton king, who was looking for a designer to infuse new life into the business. Initially stumped for suggestions, Dior ultimately proposed himself as a potential candidate. That was, until he inspected the business from top to bottom and decided Boussac would be wasting his time trying to restore Philippe & Gaston to its former heights. “So many others before me had tried to resurrect once-famous names without success; the existence of a dressmaking house is burdened with uncertainties, and its lifespan is often far shorter than the men who run it,” Dior wrote. “I decided that I was not meant by nature to revive the dead.” Ultimately, Dior found himself suggesting the creation of his own house, new from top to bottom, and built on the principles of luxury and craftsmanship — a proposition that piqued Boussac’s interest. “After the prolonged stagnation of the war years, I believed there was a genuine unsatisfied desire throughout the world for something new in fashion,” Dior wrote. Dior was deeply superstitious. Before he accepted Boussac’s offer, he consulted his mystic, Madame Delahaye, who urged him to accept. But her endorsement wasn’t enough. Through Raymonde Zehnacker, his mentor at Lelong who would remain a lifelong friend, Dior got an appointment to see Grandma, another mystic. She is said to have shrieked, “This house will revolutionize fashion.” Later that same evening, in March 1946, while walking down the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré, Dior stumbled over something. It was a metal star with a hole in the middle. He took it as a sign. The next day he marched into Boussac’s office and the two were in business. Boussac ponied up $500,000 to launch the brand and Dior took up residence at 28 Avenue Montaigne, which was being vacated by a hat shop. Seeking to relieve women from wartime frugality and shapeless clothes, Dior devised ways to enhance feminine beauty. His proposition was greeted with rapturous applause and immediately embraced by such disparate women as singer Juliette Greco and stage actress Dominique Blanchard, who had a long skirt made of 80 yards of pleated white faille. Carmel Snow, the editor of Harper’s Bazaar, baptized Dior’s first collection “New Look,” and it precipitated a stampede back to Paris for fashion — and, as noted, outcry in the city’s streets over what many, still struggling after the war, considered an extravagant use of precious cloth. The business quickly expanded to neighboring buildings, the one at 30 Avenue Montaigne housing what in the early ’50s was the biggest luxury boutique in Paris. Many of the founder’s decorating codes — medallions, ribbons, cane work, houndstooth and panther prints — remain today. He was the only Paris couturier to maintain significant licenses in foreign countries, acquiring 41 of them during his time at the house. He had operations in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, England and even Syria, to name a few. Besides his couture and ready-to-wear, he also created gloves, jewelry and men’s ties. Despite a gentle and shy nature, Dior was a natural provocateur, whose drastic changes in silhouette often invoked controversy, outrage and numerous headlines, fanning his notoriety. “Gossip, even malicious rumors, are worth more than the most expensive publicity campaign in the world,” he figured. His designs were widely copied, down to mass-produced housedresses, and were the guiding light for millions of women worldwide. After the New Look brought hemlines to the ankle, protests broke out in many of the places Dior traveled, including America. In Paris, market women tried to attack models wearing lavish Dior dresses while they were being photographed. “I never guessed what an explosive quality my modest formula would prove to have in an age of compromise and laissez-faire,” the designer said. “I designed flower women — soft shoulders, full busts, waists as narrow lines and skirts as corollas.” His famous customers included the Duchess of Windsor, Gloria Swanson, Marlene Dietrich and Zsa Zsa Gabor, and among his intimate social circle were artists Jean Cocteau, Sir Francis Rose and Christian Bérard, and composers Darius Milhaud and Francis Poulenc. Dior was known for his impeccable taste. An invitation to his home was a coveted social coup. A famous gourmet, he would lay out lavish feasts while visitors marveled at the surroundings. Dior asked his interior decorator friends, including Victor Grandpierre and Georges Geffroy, to decorate his homes and boutiques. The American market was a key priority, so Dior boarded the Queen Elizabeth, setting sail with Vogue’s Alexander Liberman. Upon winning the prestigious Neiman Marcus Award in Dallas in 1947, he toured Los Angeles, San Francisco, New York and Chicago, where he had a brush with angry women brandishing “Down With the New Look” placards. Dior’s willingness to adapt his look to international markets was an innovation and is a key part of his legacy. “Thanks to both the encouragement and criticism of the buyers from abroad, I was soon designing prints for California and cottons for Rio de Janeiro in an effort to give women of different climates and different ways of life the clothes they wanted,” he wrote in his memoirs. In 1948, the brand established a shop on Fifth Avenue in New York. Dress manufacturers, on and off Seventh Avenue, bought dresses, the rights to reproduce designs or patterns from Dior. But there were also plenty of pirates who copied adaptations off the rack and produced them, or syndicates that rented copies to dressmakers. That meant original Dior dresses that would cost $2,000 in Paris could be copied at $7 or less. Designs were closely guarded secrets and a threat of jail hung over employees if they leaked information about the next collection. The company was vigilant in tracking down and prosecuting copyists, averaging some 40 lawsuits a year. Dior didn’t reap huge profits on the sale of individual models. In 1953, WWD, in a series of articles devoted to the house’s innovative business practices, pegged the margin at less than 10 percent. Dior himself elucidated his expenses in a talk with graduate students. He said that, assuming the average cost of a garment was $360, he cleared only around $30, after paying for materials, labor, social insurance, taxes and saleswomen’s commissions and overhead. But international expansion remained brisk. Some assumed Dior, with his growing empire, would loosen his creative grip. But he refused to enter any venture in which he couldn’t wield creative influence and control distribution. In 1950, Dior received the French Legion of Honor award for his role in the fashion and textile industry and presented a collection in London to Queen Elizabeth II and Princess Margaret. As his responsibilities grew, he remained constant in his unwavering dedication to his craft. Before every collection, he would isolate himself for three weeks to a month and emerge with as many as 500 sketches for the new collection. Dior had his critics. Some found his ribbed and wired creations overly complex, rigid and as unwearable as architecture. His H-line, or flat line, was controversial, as was his switch to the A-line, which some lamented for wiping out curves. In the mid-’50s, he once remarked upon the unsightliness of women’s knees and was “castigated on the front pages of five continents,” according to Collier’s. Dior’s career encompassed only 22 collections, but the ideas behind the New Look’s body-enhancing structure reverberated for years. The pressure of leading fashion did not escape him, and his tension was said to be palpable through the thick carpets at Avenue Montaigne. He considered his creative work nerve-racking, although at home in his bath he could churn out 100 sketches until he was as wrinkled as a prune. “To manufacture emotion, a man must have a working agreement with madness,” he said. Pierre Bergé recalled that Dior often instructed his chauffeur to continue circling the company’s headquarters in the black Citroën until he mustered the courage to enter. Faced with imperfections, Dior could go into a rage, poking imperfect stitches with a long stick. Withdrawn and introverted as an adult, he was said to prefer solitaire to canasta. He was also said to continue to be deeply superstitious, pessimistic and prone to consulting mediums for assurance. By 1957, his global reputation was such that he was featured on the cover of Time magazine. The designer typically sought rest and relaxation after each collection, and in October of that year, he headed for a favorite Italian spa town, Montecatini, reportedly to lose some weight. He fell ill after dinner one night and ultimately suffered heart failure. “His death was completely out of the blue,” said Jeanne Doutreleau, aka Victoire, one of Dior’s star models. Doutreleau was with Yves Saint Laurent at the Dior headquarters when she heard the news. “It was a big shock for [Saint Laurent], with the house suddenly heralding him Dior’s successor, and I remember suddenly feeling very orphaned, like the end of an era had come about,” she said. Dior’s funeral at the Chapelle Saint Honoré d’Eylau was so packed that it took more than an hour for the congregation to pass his bier and to pay respects to family members and Dior executives. “Dior’s passing ends a brilliant career that gave the French couture and the world garment industries an impetus rarely, if ever, known before,” Balmain said in tribute. With his inaugural Trapèze line in 1958, Saint Laurent pushed the house in a new direction. Over the years, the couturier’s successors would include Marc Bohan, Gianfranco Ferré, John Galliano, Raf Simons and Maria Grazia Chiuri, who in 2016 became the first female creative director in the history of the house. A Timeline for Christian Dior 1905: Christian Dior is born in the French seaside town of Granville to an affluent family of agricultural industrialists. 1919: Dior meets a fortune-teller, who says he will find success through women. 1923: Dior enters a prestigious political science university in Paris. 1932: Dior and Pierre Colle open a gallery on Rue Cambacérès on the Right Bank in Paris, where they later display Surrealist works by Salvador Dalí, Alberto Giacometti, Pablo Picasso and Man Ray. 1934: Struck with tuberculosis, Dior retreats to the Pyrenees mountains and decides to turn to fashion. 1935: Dior does illustrations for the daily Le Figaro and fashion magazine Le Jardin des Modes and begins to sell drawings to couture houses including Jean Patou, Nina Ricci, Maggy Rouff and Balenciaga. 1938: Dior is hired by couturier Robert Piguet, where he creates the Café Anglais dress. 1941: Dior becomes a designer for Lucien Lelong, where he plays with pencil skirts and rounded pleats. 1946: Supported by industrialist Marcel Boussac, Christian Dior establishes the Christian Dior Couture house and opens workshops at 30 Avenue Montaigne, employing 85 people. 1947: Dior presents his first collection under his own name. Winning the Neiman Marcus “fashion Oscar” in Dallas, he tours Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and New York. 1948: Christian Dior establishes a shop on Fifth Avenue in New York. 1950: Dior receives the French Legion of Honor award for his role in the fashion and textile industry and presents a collection in London to Queen Elizabeth and Princess Margaret. Marlene Dietrich wears a Christian Dior wardrobe in Alfred Hitchcock’s movie “Stage Fright.” 1951: Staff levels at Christian Dior swell to around 900 people. 1953: Christian Dior opens a store in Caracas, Venezuela, and travels in South and Central America. 1955: Yves Saint Laurent becomes Dior’s design assistant. The house opens a Victor Grandpierre-decorated boutique on the corner of Avenue Montaigne and Rue François I-er in Paris. 1957: Dior appears on the cover of Time magazine. The designer dies of a heart attack in Montecatini Terme, Italy. Yves Saint Laurent becomes creative director of the fashion house. 1958: The Trapèze line of Yves Saint Laurent’s first collection marks a shift for the house. Roger Vivier launches a shoe brand under the Dior label. 1960: Marc Bohan becomes creative director of Christian Dior and later introduces the Slim Look. 1967: Philippe Guibourgé creates the Miss Dior ready-to-wear line. Princess Grace of Monaco inaugurates the Baby Dior boutique at 28 Avenue Montaigne. 1970: Marc Bohan creates Christian Dior Monsieur. 1983: Marc Bohan wins the Golden Thimble for his spring haute couture collection. Dominique Morlotti becomes creative director of Christian Dior Monsieur. Bernard Arnault buys the Financière Agache group, owner of Christian Dior Couture. 1985: Bernard Arnault becomes chief executive officer of Christian Dior Couture. 1987: François Mitterrand inaugurates a retrospective exhibit at the Musée des Arts Décoratifs for the house’s 40th anniversary. 1989: Italian couturier Gianfranco Ferré becomes the designer for Christian Dior and wins the Golden Thimble for his first fall haute couture collection. Bernard Arnault takes over the LVMH group, owner of Parfums Christian Dior, bringing couture and perfumery back under the same roof. 1992: Patrick Lavoix becomes creative director of Christian Dior Monsieur. 1995: Bernadette Chirac presents Diana, Princess of Wales, with a brand new Dior bag named Lady Dior. 1996: John Galliano succeeds Gianfranco Ferré as designer for Christian Dior. The Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York celebrates the 50th anniversary of the house of Dior with an exhibit. At the Met Gala, Lady Diana wears the first Dior dress designed by Galliano. 1997: John Galliano presents his first haute couture collection for Dior. Nicole Kidman wears a dress from his collection at the Oscar ceremony. The Christian Dior museum opens in Christian Dior’s family home, the Villa Les Rhumbs in Granville. 1998: Dior Joaillerie is founded with Victoire de Castellane as creative director. 2000: Hedi Slimane becomes creative director of Christian Dior Monsieur and changes its name to Dior Homme. 2007: Kris Van Assche becomes creative director of Dior Homme. 2011: Bill Gaytten becomes the designer for Christian Dior. 2012: Raf Simons is appointed creative director of womenswear for Christian Dior and presents his first haute couture collection. 2013: The Museum of Contemporary Art stages an exhibit called “The Dior Spirit” in Shanghai with over a hundred pieces from 1947 to 2013. 2016: Maria Grazia Chiuri becomes Dior’s first female creative director. 2017: The House of Dior celebrates its 70th anniversary with major exhibits in Paris and Granville, France; Melbourne, Australia; and Toronto, Canada. 2018: Kim Jones becomes artistic director of menswear at Dior. 2022: Dior reopens its historic flagship at 30 Avenue Montaigne after two years of renovations with a restaurant, a pastry café, an exhibition space, couture ateliers, a high jewelry workshop and a private apartment. – With contributions from WWD staff.
