=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Wayback Machine - Wikipedia]
The Wayback Machine is a digital archive of the World Wide Web founded by the Internet Archive, an American nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California. Launched for public access in 2001, the service allows users to go "back in time" to see how websites looked in the past. Founders Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat developed the Wayback Machine to provide "universal access to all ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine

[2001: The Internet Gets a Memory With the Wayback Machine | Cybercultural]
September 11 archive in the Wayback Machine; screenshot from October 2001. The Internet Archive had begun operating five years before the public launch of the Wayback Machine. That year, 1996, Kahle wrote an essay that was eventually published ...
URL: https://cybercultural.com/p/wayback-machine-launch-2001/

[Wayback Machine | TV Philippines Wiki | Fandom]
The Wayback Machine is a digital archive of the World Wide Web founded by the Internet Archive, an American nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California. Created in 1996 and launched to the public in 2001, it allows users to go ...
URL: https://tv-philippines.fandom.com/wiki/Wayback_Machine

[Internet Archive launches wayback machine: free service enables users ...]
Oct 24, 2001 · Press Release: Internet Archive launches wayback machine: free service enables users to access archived versions of Web sites dating from 1996. The Internet Archive launched the Wayback Machine, a free service allowing people to access and use archived versions of past web pages. For the first time, all members of the public will be able to search and view the Internet Archive''s enormous ...
URL: https://librarytechnology.org/pr/9384

["The Wayback Machine" Becomes Operational at the Internet Archive]
Oct 24, 2001 · On October 24, 2001 The Internet Archive first made its retrospective data available through the Wayback Machine. The name Wayback Machine is a droll reference to a plot device in the animated cartoon series, The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, in which Mr. Peabody and Sherman routinely used a time machine called the "WABAC machine" (pronounced "Wayback") to witness, participate in, and, more often ...
URL: https://www.historyofinformation.com/detail.php?id=1131


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Wayback Machine - Wikipedia] ---
The Wayback Machine is a digital archive of the World Wide Web founded by the Internet Archive, an American nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California. Launched for public access in 2001, the service allows users to go "back in time" to see how websites looked in the past. Founders Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat developed the Wayback Machine to provide "universal access to all knowledge" by preserving archived copies of defunct web pages.
The name is a reference to the fictional time-traveling device of the same name from the animated cartoon The Bullwinkle Show from the 1960s. In a segment of the cartoon entitled "Peabody's Improbable History", the characters Mister Peabody and Sherman use the "Wayback Machine" to travel back in time to witness and participate in famous historical events.
The Wayback Machine's earliest archives go back at least to 1995, and by the end of 2009, more than 38.2 billion webpages had been saved. As of October 2025, the Wayback Machine has archived more than 1 trillion web pages and well over 99 petabytes of data.


--- [2001: The Internet Gets a Memory With the Wayback Machine | Cybercultural] ---
2001: The Internet Gets a Memory With the Wayback Machine In October 2001, Brewster Kahle demonstrates a new time machine from the Internet Archive called the Wayback Machine. It will become a vital link between the Web's past and its present. Internet Archive website after the launch of Wayback Machine in October 2001. If the future is going to devolve into chaos, then the present ought to be preserved somehow, online. That was part of the thinking behind the Wayback Machine, a public archive of web pages that was launched on October 24, 2001, at a library at the University of California at Berkeley. At the event, Internet Archive founder Brewster Kahle demonstrated the new time machine by pulling up a web page from the White House website from September 10, 1996, featuring President Clinton declaring the prevention of hijacking and terrorist attacks in the air a priority. Kahle then showed a special collection of archived websites about 9/11 (still, of course, fresh in the collective memory). September 11 archive in the Wayback Machine; screenshot from October 2001. The Internet Archive had begun operating five years before the public launch of the Wayback Machine. That year, 1996, Kahle wrote an essay that was eventually published by Scientific American magazine. He wrote, “While the Internet’s World Wide Web is unprecedented in spreading the popular voice of millions that would never have been published before, no one recorded these documents and images from 1 year ago.” So that’s what the Internet Archive set out to do. Indeed, one of the websites archived the month it launched, October 1996, was davidbowie.com — which I've written about extensively here on Cybercultural. This was the version before BowieNet, when it was still focused on the Outside album. However, what the Wayback Machine preserved — or failed to preserve — of Bowie’s website in October 1996 also illustrates a key problem of archiving digital content. Bowie website in October 1996; via Wayback Machine. On the homepage were four prominent links: “Enter site,” “site index,” “new single ‘telling lies’,” and “What’s new.” All four linked to a slice of www.davidbowie.com/maps/splash.map, a URL that indicated an animated “splash page” created with Macromedia Flash. It turns out, the Internet Archive could not preserve Flash animations at that time. So if you click any of those links in the Wayback Machine, you’ll get a “page does not exist” error. Even some of the HTML versions of pages from that time were not captured (such as sitemap.html), and many of the images are missing. When the Internet Archive made the Wayback Machine available for public use in October 2001, it admitted that many sites weren’t fully preserved. “If you look at the collection of archived sites, you will find some broken pages, missing graphics, and some sites that aren't archived at all,” the organisation explained in an FAQ. “The Internet Archive has tried to create a complete archive, but has had difficulties with some sites, because the link structure was not straightforward to crawl.” Wayback Machine soon after its public launch in October 2001. So with Bowie’s website, the use of Flash for a menu meant that the Internet Archive was not easily able to read its structure back in 1996. Also, sites that required a login to browse were unable to be captured — and this particular issue affected how much of BowieNet was preserved in the Wayback Machine. BowieNet was launched in September 1998, but there are no copies of it in Wayback Machine until late November 1999. Indeed, right up until the end of 2001, there are very limited copies of Bowie’s website — even the public pages — in the Internet Archive. It wasn’t just technical issues that prevented a complete archiving of the World Wide Web. Sometimes early websites, even prominent ones, were simply overlooked. For example, CNN.com was launched in 1995 but the Wayback Machine didn’t start saving it until mid-2000. Even the BBC’s website, which was first captured in December 1996, has large holes in its archives until early 2000. Internet Archive founder Brewster Kahle in 1991; photo by Carl Malamud via Flickr. When it comes to our cultural history, the Internet Archive organisation has achieved a remarkable feat in preserving a decent chunk of the web from the 1990s and early 2000s. Nevertheless, the gaps in its archive are notable. In an analysis published on Forbes in November 2015, the academic Kalev Leetaru wrote, “When archiving an infinite web with finite resources, countless decisions must be made as to which narrow slices of the web to preserve.” “Websites are like shifting sands,” Brewster Kahle himself admitted in a 2002 interview. “The average life of a Web page is 100 days. After that either it's changed or it disappears. So our intellectual society is built on sand.” Even the formats used to archive websites had morphed a few times by the time Kahle gave that interview. “We recorded 1996, 1997 and 1998 on tape,” he said. “By 1999 we were just using hard drives, and now we're using a new generation of hard drives.” Salon article about Internet Archive, November 2001; preserved via Wayback Machine. In a followup article for Forbes in January 2016, Leetaru took a deeper look at the Internet Archive. He found that it “operates far more like a traditional library archive than a modern commercial search engine.” He meant that the Internet Archive doesn’t necessarily crawl everything on the web, and it relies on “an exquisitely complex assemblage of datasets and partners” to build its unique web repository. “Rather than a single centralized and standardized continuous crawling farm, the Archive’s holdings are comprised of millions of files in thousands of collections from hundreds of partners, all woven together into a rich collage which the Archive preserves as custodian and curator,” wrote Leetaru. He added that the Wayback Machine is “merely a public interface to an unknown fraction of these holdings.” The Wayback Machine is impressive enough, even despite its quirks, but Kahle’s ambitions didn’t stop there. In a profile by The New York Times the week after the launch of the Wayback Machine, he made clear that he wanted to preserve all forms of culture online: “He doesn't want to stop with Web pages. Mr. Kahle (pronounced ''Kale'') is inviting copyright holders for books, movies, music and more to add their creations to the mix. Ultimately, he hopes to finally deliver the kind of library that the ancients tried to create in Alexandria.” Brewster Kahle's seminal Scientific American article, February 1997. The Times article also raised possible concerns over copyright. Stanford University law professor Lawrence Lessig, a supporter of the Internet Archive, warned that copyright holders would eventually drag Kahle into court. In time, copyright did indeed become a problem for the Internet Archive — especially regarding books and music. Two large lawsuits have only recently been resolved; in 2023 the book publisher Hachette won a case against the IA in regards to the lending of digital books during the COVID-19 pandemic (a 2024 appeal was denied), and a case brought by Universal Music Group was settled in September of this year. Copyright issues aside, the biggest achievement of Brewster Kahle is that he legitimised web content as a valid form of culture worth preserving. That we can revisit previous versions of davidbowie.com and other old websites is a blessing, and it’s all thanks to the launch of the Wayback Machine in 2001. On a personal note, this very website — Cybercultural — would not exist without Kahle's time machine. Brewster Kahle leading a tour of the Internet Archive in October 2023; photos by the author. Postscript: Today, October 21, 2025, there is a rally in San Francisco in support of the Internet Archive. Tomorrow, there's a party to celebrate 1 trillion webpages archived. Long live the Internet Archive! Buy the Book My Web 2.0 memoir, Bubble Blog: From Outsider to Insider in Silicon Valley's Web 2.0 Revolution, is now available to purchase: - Paperback, US$19.99: Amazon; Bookshop.org - eBook, US$9.99: Amazon Kindle Store; Apple Books; Google Play Or search for "Bubble Blog MacManus" on your local online bookstore.


--- [Wayback Machine | TV Philippines Wiki | Fandom] ---
Type of site | Archive | |---|---| List of languages | | | Founded | | | Area served | Worldwide (except China, India[a], and Bahrain) | | Owner | Internet Archive | | URL | | | Commercial | No | | Registration | Optional | | Current status | Active | | Written in | HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, Python | | ^ a: Although it is formally blocked, enforcement is not consistent and depends on the region.[1] | The Wayback Machine is a digital archive of the World Wide Web founded by the Internet Archive, an American nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California. Created in 1996 and launched to the public in 2001, it allows users to go "back in time" to see how websites looked in the past. Its founders, Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat, developed the Wayback Machine to provide "universal access to all knowledge" by preserving archived copies of defunct web pages.[2] Launched on May 10, 1996, the Wayback Machine had saved more than 38.2 billion web pages at the end of 2009. As of January 3, 2024, the Wayback Machine has archived more than 860 billion web pages and well over 99 petabytes of data.[3][4] History[] The Wayback Machine began archiving cached web pages in 1996. One of the earliest known pages was archived on May 10, 1996, at (UTC).[5] Internet Archive founders Brewster Kahle and Bruce Gilliat launched the Wayback Machine in San Francisco, California,[6] in October 2001,[7][8] primarily to address the problem of web content vanishing whenever it gets changed or when a website is shut down.[9] The service enables users to see archived versions of web pages across time, which the archive calls a "three-dimensional index".[10] Kahle and Gilliat created the machine hoping to archive the entire Internet and provide "universal access to all knowledge".[11] The name "Wayback Machine" is a reference to a fictional time-traveling device in the animated cartoon The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends from the 1960s.[12][13][14] In a segment of the cartoon entitled "Peabody's Improbable History", the characters Mister Peabody and Sherman use the "Wayback Machine" to witness and participate in famous historical events. From 1996 to 2001, the information was kept on digital tape, with Kahle occasionally allowing researchers and scientists to tap into the "clunky" database.[15] When the archive reached its fifth anniversary in 2001, it was unveiled and opened to the public in a ceremony at the University of California, Berkeley.[16] By the time the Wayback Machine launched, it already contained over 10 billion archived pages.[17] The data is stored on the Internet Archive's large cluster of Linux nodes.[11] It revisits and archives new versions of websites on occasion (see technical details below).[18] Sites can also be captured manually by entering a website's URL into the search box, provided that the website allows the Wayback Machine to "crawl" it and save the data.[19] On October 30, 2020, the Wayback Machine began fact-checking content.[20] As of January 2022, domains of ad servers are disabled from capturing.[21] In May 2021, for Internet Archive's 25th anniversary, the Wayback Machine introduced the "Wayforward Machine" which allows users to "travel to the Internet in 2046, where knowledge is under siege".[22][23] Technical information[] The Wayback Machine's software has been developed to "crawl" the Web and download all publicly accessible information and data files on webpages, the Gopher hierarchy, the Netnews (Usenet) bulletin board system, and downloadable software.[24] The information collected by these "crawlers" does not include all the information available on the Internet, since much of the data is restricted by the publisher or stored in databases that are not accessible. To overcome inconsistencies in partially cached websites, Archive-It.org was developed in 2005 by the Internet Archive as a means of allowing institutions and content creators to voluntarily harvest and preserve collections of digital content, and create digital archives.[25] Crawls are contributed from various sources, some imported from third parties and others generated internally by the Archive.[18] For example, crawls are contributed by the Sloan Foundation and Alexa, crawls run by Internet Archive on behalf of NARA and the Internet Memory Foundation, mirrors of Common Crawl.[18] The "Worldwide Web Crawls" have been running since 2010 and capture the global Web.[18][26] Documents and resources are stored with time stamp URLs such as 20251216172640 . Pages' individual resources such as images and style sheets and scripts, as well as outgoing hyperlinks, are linked to with the time stamp of the currently viewed page, so they are redirected automatically to their individual captures that are the closest in time.[27] The frequency of snapshot captures varies per website.[18] Websites in the "Worldwide Web Crawls" are included in a "crawl list", with the site archived once per crawl.[18] A crawl can take months or even years to complete, depending on size.[18] For example, "Wide Crawl Number 13" started on January 9, 2015, and completed on July 11, 2016.[28] However, there may be multiple crawls ongoing at any one time, and a site might be included in more than one crawl list, so how often a site is crawled varies widely.[18] Starting in October 2019, users are limited to 15 archival requests and retrievals per minute.[29]Template:Why Storage capacity and growth[] As technology has developed over the years, the storage capacity of the Wayback Machine has grown. In 2003, after only two years of public access, the Wayback Machine was growing at a rate of 12 terabytes per month. The data is stored on PetaBox rack systems custom designed by Internet Archive staff. The first 100TB rack became fully operational in June 2004, although it soon became clear that they would need much more storage than that.[30][31] The Internet Archive migrated its customized storage architecture to Sun Open Storage in 2009, and hosts a new data centre in a Sun Modular Datacenter on Sun Microsystems' California campus.[32] As of 2009[update], the Wayback Machine contained approximately three petabytes of data and was growing at a rate of 100 terabytes each month.[33] A new, improved version of the Wayback Machine, with an updated interface and a fresher index of archived content, was made available for public testing in 2011, where captures appear in a calendar layout with circles whose width visualizes the number of crawls each day, but no marking of duplicates with asterisks or an advanced search page.[34][35] A top toolbar was added to facilitate navigating between captures. A bar chart visualizes the frequency of captures per month over the years.[36] Features like "Changes", "Summary", and a graphical site map were added subsequently. In March that year, it was said on the Wayback Machine forum that "the Beta of the new Wayback Machine has a more complete and up-to-date index of all crawled materials into 2010, and will continue to be updated regularly. The index driving the classic Wayback Machine only has a little bit of material past 2008, and no further index updates are planned, as it will be phased out this year."[37] Also in 2011, the Internet Archive installed their sixth pair of PetaBox racks which increased the Wayback Machine's storage capacity by 700 terabytes.[38] In January 2013, the company announced a ground-breaking milestone of 240 billion URLs.[39] In October 2013, the company introduced the "Save a Page" feature[40][41] which allows any Internet user to archive the contents of a URL, and quickly generates a permanent link unlike the preceding liveweb feature. In December 2014, the Wayback Machine contained 435 billion web pages—almost nine petabytes of data, and was growing at about 20 terabytes a week.[17][42][43] In July 2016, the Wayback Machine reportedly contained around 15 petabytes of data.[44] In September 2018, the Wayback Machine contained over 25 petabytes of data.[45][46] As of December 2020, the Wayback Machine contained over 70 petabytes of data.[47] The Internet Archive, as of January 2024, attests to have stored well over 99 petabytes of data so far.[3][4] Template:Bar chart Wayback Machine APIs[] The Wayback Machine service offers three public APIs, SavePageNow, Availability, and CDX.[48] SavePageNow can be used to archive web pages. Availability API for checking the archive availability status for a web page,[49] checking whether an archive for the web page exists or not. CDX API is for complex querying, filtering, and analysis of captured data.[50][51] Website exclusion policy[] Historically, the Wayback Machine has respected the robots exclusion standard (robots.txt) in determining if a website would be crawled – or if already crawled, if its archives would be publicly viewable. Website owners had the option to opt-out of Wayback Machine through the use of robots.txt. It applied robots.txt rules retroactively; if a site blocked the Internet Archive, any previously archived pages from the domain were immediately rendered unavailable as well. In addition, the Internet Archive stated that "Sometimes, a website owner will contact us directly and ask us to stop crawling or archiving a site. We comply with these requests."[52] In addition, the website says: "The Internet Archive is not interested in preserving or offering access to Web sites or other internet documents of persons who do not want their materials in the collection."[53][54] On April 17, 2017, reports surfaced of sites that had gone defunct and became parked domains that were using robots.txt to exclude themselves from search engines, resulting in them being inadvertently excluded from the Wayback Machine.[55] The Internet Archive changed the policy to now require an explicit exclusion request to remove it from the Wayback Machine.[27] Oakland archive policy[] Wayback's retroactive exclusion policy is based in part upon Recommendations for Managing Removal Requests and Preserving Archival Integrity published by the School of Information Management and Systems at University of California, Berkeley in 2002, which gives a website owner the right to block access to the site's archives.[56] Wayback has complied with this policy to help avoid expensive litigation.[57] The Wayback retroactive exclusion policy began to relax in 2017, when it stopped honoring robots on U.S. government and military web sites for both crawling and displaying web pages. As of April 2017, Wayback is ignoring robots.txt more broadly, not just for U.S. government websites.[58][59][60][61] Uses[] From its public launch in 2001, the Wayback Machine has been studied by scholars both for the ways it stores and collects data as well as for the actual pages contained in its archive. As of 2013, scholars had written about 350 articles on the Wayback Machine, mostly from the information technology, library science, and social science fields. Social science scholars have used the Wayback Machine to analyze how the development of websites from the mid-1990s to the present has affected the company's growth.[17] When the Wayback Machine archives a page, it usually includes most of the hyperlinks, keeping those links active when they just as easily could have been broken by the Internet's instability. Researchers in India studied the effectiveness of the Wayback Machine's ability to save hyperlinks in online scholarly publications and found that it saved slightly more than half of them.[62] "Journalists use the Wayback Machine to view dead websites, dated news reports, and changes to website contents. Its content has been used to hold politicians accountable and expose battlefield lies."[63] In 2014, an archived social media page of Igor Girkin, a separatist rebel leader in Ukraine, showed him boasting about his troops having shot down a suspected Ukrainian military airplane before it became known that the plane actually was a civilian Malaysian Airlines jet (Malaysia Airlines Flight 17), after which he deleted the post and blamed Ukraine's military for downing the plane.[63][64] In 2017, the March for Science originated from a discussion on Reddit that indicated someone had visited Archive.org and discovered that all references to climate change had been deleted from the White House website. In response, a user commented, "There needs to be a Scientists' March on Washington".[65][66][67] Furthermore, the site is used heavily for verification, providing access to references and content creation by Wikipedia editors.[68] When new URLs are added to Wikipedia, the Internet Archive has been archiving them.[68] In September 2020, a partnership was announced with Cloudflare to automatically archive websites served via its "Always Online" service, which will also allow it to direct users to its copy of the site if it cannot reach the original host.[69] Limitations[] In 2014 there was a six-month lag time between when a website was crawled and when it became available for viewing in the Wayback Machine.[70] Currently, the lag time is 3 to 10 hours.[27] The Wayback Machine offers only limited search facilities. Its "Site Search" feature allows users to find a site based on words describing the site, rather than words found on the web pages themselves.[71] The Wayback Machine does not include every web page ever made due to the limitations of its web crawler. The Wayback Machine cannot completely archive web pages that contain interactive features such as Flash platforms and forms written in JavaScript and progressive web applications, because those functions require interaction with the host website. This means that, since approximately July 9, 2013, the Wayback Machine has been unable to display YouTube comments when saving videos' watch pages, as, according to the Archive Team, comments are no longer "loaded within the page itself."[72] The Wayback Machine's web crawler has difficulty extracting anything not coded in HTML or one of its variants, which can often result in broken hyperlinks and missing images. Due to this, the web crawler cannot archive "orphan pages" that are not linked to by other pages.[71][73] The Wayback Machine's crawler only follows a predetermined number of hyperlinks based on a preset depth limit, so it cannot archive every hyperlink on every page.[26] In legal evidence[] Civil litigation[] Netbula LLC v. Chordiant Software Inc.[] In a 2009 case, Netbula, LLC v. Chordiant Software Inc., defendant Chordiant filed a motion to compel Netbula to disable the robots.txt file on its website that was causing the Wayback Machine to retroactively remove access to previous versions of pages it had archived from Netbula's site, pages that Chordiant believed would support its case.[74] Netbula objected to the motion on the ground that defendants were asking to alter Netbula's website and that they should have subpoenaed Internet Archive for the pages directly.[75] An employee of Internet Archive filed a sworn statement supporting Chordiant's motion, however, stating that it could not produce the web pages by any other means "without considerable burden, expense and disruption to its operations."[74] Magistrate Judge Howard Lloyd in the Northern District of California, San Jose Division, rejected Netbula's arguments and ordered them to disable the robots.txt blockage temporarily in order to allow Chordiant to retrieve the archived pages that they sought.[74] Telewizja Polska USA, Inc. v. Echostar Satellite[] In an October 2004 case, Telewizja Polska USA, Inc. v. Echostar Satellite, No. 02 C 3293, 65 Fed. R. Evid. Serv. 673 (N.D. Ill. October 15, 2004), a litigant attempted to use the Wayback Machine archives as a source of admissible evidence, perhaps for the first time. Telewizja Polska is the provider of TVP Polonia and EchoStar operates the Dish Network. Prior to the trial proceedings, EchoStar indicated that it intended to offer Wayback Machine snapshots as proof of the past content of Telewizja Polska's website. Telewizja Polska brought a motion in limine to suppress the snapshots on the grounds of hearsay and unauthenticated source, but Magistrate Judge Arlander Keys rejected Telewizja Polska's assertion of hearsay and denied TVP's motion in limine to exclude the evidence at trial.[76][77] At the trial, however, District Court Judge Ronald Guzman, the trial judge, overruled Magistrate Keys' findings, and held that neither the affidavit of the Internet Archive employee nor the underlying pages (i.e., the Telewizja Polska website) were admissible as evidence. Judge Guzman reasoned that the employee's affidavit contained both hearsay and inconclusive supporting statements, and the purported web page, printouts were not self-authenticating.[78][79] Patent law[] The United States Patent and Trademark Office and the European Patent Office will accept date stamps from the Internet Archive as evidence of when a given Web page was accessible to the public. These dates are used to determine if a Web page is available as prior art for instance in examining a patent application.[80] Limitations of utility[] There are technical limitations to archiving a website, and as a consequence, opposing parties in litigation can misuse the results provided by website archives. This problem can be exacerbated by the practice of submitting screenshots of web pages in complaints, answers, or expert witness reports when the underlying links are not exposed and therefore, can contain errors. For example, archives such as the Wayback Machine do not fill out forms and therefore, do not include the contents of non-RESTful e-commerce databases in their archives.[81] Legal status[] In Europe, the Wayback Machine could be interpreted as violating copyright laws. Only the content creator can decide where their content is published or duplicated so the Archive would have to delete pages from its system upon request of the creator.[82] The exclusion policies for the Wayback Machine may be found in the FAQ section of the site.[83] Some cases have been brought against the Internet Archive specifically for its Wayback Machine archiving efforts. Archived content legal issues[] Scientology[] In late 2002, the Internet Archive removed various sites that were critical of Scientology from the Wayback Machine.[84] An error message stated that this was in response to a "request by the site owner".[85] Later, it was clarified that lawyers from the Church of Scientology had demanded the removal and that the site owners did not want their material removed.[86] Healthcare Advocates, Inc.[] In 2003, Harding Earley Follmer & Frailey defended a client from a trademark dispute using the Archive's Wayback Machine. The attorneys were able to demonstrate that the claims made by the plaintiff were invalid, based on the content of their website from several years prior. The plaintiff, Healthcare Advocates, then amended their complaint to include the Internet Archive, accusing the organization of copyright infringement as well as violations of the DMCA and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Healthcare Advocates claimed that, since they had installed a robots.txt file on their website, even if after the initial lawsuit was filed, the Archive should have removed all previous copies of the plaintiff website from the Wayback Machine, however, some material continued to be publicly visible on Wayback.[87] The lawsuit was settled out of court after Wayback fixed the problem.[88] Suzanne Shell[] Activist Suzanne Shell filed suit in December 2005, demanding Internet Archive pay her US$100,000 for archiving her website profane-justice.org between 1999 and 2004.[89][90] Internet Archive filed a declaratory judgment action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on January 20, 2006, seeking a judicial determination that Internet Archive did not violate Shell's copyright. Shell responded and brought a countersuit against Internet Archive for archiving her site, which she alleges is in violation of her terms of service.[91] On February 13, 2007, a judge for the United States District Court for the District of Colorado dismissed all counterclaims except breach of contract.[90] The Internet Archive did not move to dismiss copyright infringement claims Shell asserted arising out of its copying activities, which would also go forward.[92] On April 25, 2007, Internet Archive and Suzanne Shell jointly announced the settlement of their lawsuit.[89] The Internet Archive said it "...has no interest in including materials in the Wayback Machine of persons who do not wish to have their Web content archived. We recognize that Ms. Shell has a valid and enforceable copyright in her Web site and we regret that the inclusion of her Web site in the Wayback Machine resulted in this litigation." Shell said, "I respect the historical value of Internet Archive's goal. I never intended to interfere with that goal nor cause it any harm."[93] Daniel Davydiuk[] Between 2013 and 2016, a pornographic actor named Daniel Davydiuk tried to remove archived images of himself from the Wayback Machine's archive, first by sending multiple DMCA requests to the archive, and then by appealing to the Federal Court of Canada.[94][95][96] The images were then finally removed from the website in 2017. FlexiSpy[] In 2018, archives of stalkerware application FlexiSpy's website were removed from the Wayback Machine. The company claimed to have contacted the Internet Archive, presumably to remove the archives of its website.[97] Censorship and other threats[] Archive.org is blocked in China.[98][99][100] The Internet Archive was blocked in its entirety in Russia in 2015–16, ostensibly for hosting a Jihad outreach video.[63][101][102] Since 2016, the website has been back, available in its entirety, although in 2016 Russian commercial lobbyists were suing the Internet Archive to ban it on copyright grounds.[103] In March 2015, it was published that security researchers became aware of the threat posed by the service's unintentional hosting of malicious binaries from archived sites.[104][105] Alison Macrina, director of the Library Freedom Project, notes that "while librarians deeply value individual privacy, we also strongly oppose censorship".[63] There is at least one case in which an article was removed from the archive shortly after it had been removed from its original website. A Daily Beast reporter had written an article that outed several gay Olympian athletes in 2016 after he had made a fake profile posing as a gay man on a dating app. The Daily Beast removed the article after it was met with widespread furor; not long after, the Internet Archive soon did as well, but emphatically stated that they did so for no other reason than to protect the safety of the outed athletes.[63] Other threats include natural disasters,[106] destruction (both remote and physical),[107] manipulation of the archive's contents, problematic copyright laws,[108] and surveillance of the site's users.[109] Alexander Rose, executive director of the Long Now Foundation, suspects that in the long term of multiple generations "next to nothing" will survive in a useful way, stating, "If we have continuity in our technological civilization, I suspect a lot of the bare data will remain findable and searchable. But I suspect almost nothing of the format in which it was delivered will be recognizable" because sites "with deep back-ends of content-management systems like Drupal and Ruby and Django" are harder to archive.[110] In 2016, in an article reflecting on the preservation of human knowledge, The Atlantic has commented that the Internet Archive, which describes itself to be built for the long-term,[111] "is working furiously to capture data before it disappears without any long-term infrastructure to speak of."[112] See also[] - Anna's Archive - Heritrix - Library Genesis - Link rot - List of Web archiving initiatives - Time capsule - Z-Library - archive.today References[] - ↑ https://www.theverge.com/2017/8/9/16117578/wayback-machine-blocked-india-internet-archive - ↑ Kahle, Brewster (2005-11-23). Universal Access to all Knowledge. - ↑ 3.0 3.1 Internet Archive: Wayback Machine. The current number of archived pages can be seen at the archive's home page. - ↑ 4.0 4.1 A Message from Internet Archive Founder, Brewster Kahle. - ↑ PepsiCo, Inc. (1996-05-10). PepsiCo Home Page. Internet Archive/Wayback Machine. - ↑ Wayback Machine General Information. - ↑ WayBackMachine.org WHOIS, DNS, & Domain Info – DomainTools. WHOIS. - ↑ InternetArchive.org WHOIS, DNS, & Domain Info – DomainTools. WHOIS. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ 11.0 11.1 20,000 Hard Drives on a Mission (October 25, 2016). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Keith Scott (2000). The Moose that Roared: The Story of Jay Ward, Bill Scott, a Flying Squirrel, and a Talking Moose. St. Martin's Press. ISBN 0-312-19922-8 - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ 17.0 17.1 17.2 Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ 18.0 18.1 18.2 18.3 18.4 18.5 18.6 18.7 Leetaru, Kalev (January 28, 2016). The Internet Archive Turns 20: A Behind the Scenes Look at Archiving the Web. Forbes. - ↑ Internet Archive: Wayback Machine. - ↑ Graham, Mark (October 30, 2020). Fact Checks and Context for Wayback Machine Pages. - ↑ Attempts to 'save page now' domains such as tpc.googlesyndication.com or s0.2mdn.net or atdmt.com or adbrite.com result in "This URL is in our block list and cannot be captured." - ↑ Internet Archive 25th Anniversary – Universal Access to All Knowledge. - ↑ Wayforward Machine • Visit the future of the internet. - ↑ Kahle, Brewster. Archiving the Internet. Scientific American – March 1997 Issue. - ↑ Kaplan, Jeff (October 27, 2014). Archive-It: Crawling the Web Together. Internet Archive Blogs. - ↑ 26.0 26.1 Worldwide Web Crawls. Internet Archive. - ↑ 27.0 27.1 27.2 Using The Wayback Machine. - ↑ Wide Crawl Number 13. Internet Archive. - ↑ Too Many Requests. Internet Archive (November 10, 2019). - ↑ Petabox. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Internet Archive and Sun Microsystems Create Living History of the Internet. Sun Microsystems (March 25, 2009). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ gojomo (January 24, 2011). Updated Wayback Machine in Beta Testing. - ↑ Advanced Search. - ↑ What's the difference between the classic Wayback Machine and the new Beta version?. - ↑ Beta Wayback Machine, in forum. - ↑ Internet Archive Forums: 6th pair of racks go into service: over 2PB of data space used. - ↑ Wayback Machine: Now with 240,000,000,000 URLs | Internet Archive Blogs (January 9, 2013). - ↑ Rossi, Alexis (October 25, 2013). Fixing Broken Links on the Internet. Collections Team, the Internet Archive. “We have added the ability to archive a page instantly and get back a permanent URL for that page in the Wayback Machine. This service allows anyone – wikipedia editors, scholars, legal professionals, students, or home cooks like me – to create a stable URL to cite, share or bookmark any information they want to still have access to in the future.” - ↑ Baron, Alexander (October 23, 2013). ((The new Internet Archive Wayback Machine now online)). - ↑ Internet Archive Frequently Asked Questions. - ↑ Internet Archive Frequently Asked Questions (December 18, 2014). - ↑ Can the manipulation of big data change the way the world thinks?. The National. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Donate to the Internet Archive: Digital Library of Free & Borrowable Books, Movies, Music & Wayback Machine. adafruit. - ↑ Wayback Machine APIs | Internet Archive. - ↑ Template:GitHub - ↑ Developers (August 22, 2014). - ↑ Documentation for Public APIs at the Internet Archive (December 13, 2018). - ↑ FAQs – Some sites are not available because of Robots.txt or other exclusions. What does that mean?. - ↑ Frequently Asked Questions. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Robots.txt meant for search engines don't work well for web archives (April 17, 2017). - ↑ Recommendations for Managing Removal Requests And Preserving Archival Integrity. University of California (December 14, 2002). - ↑ Retroactive robots.txt removal of past crawls AKA Oakland Archive Policy. Internet Archive (July 7, 2014). - ↑ Graham, Mark (April 17, 2017). Robots.txt meant for search engines don't work well for web archives. Internet Archive Blogs. - ↑ Archivierung des Internets: Internet Archive ignoriert künftig robots.txt (de). heise online (April 25, 2017). - ↑ Suchmaschinen: Internet Archive will künftig Robots.txt-Einträge ignorieren – Golem.de (de). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ 63.0 63.1 63.2 63.3 63.4 Wayback Machine Won't Censor Archive for Taste, Director Says After Olympics Article Scrubbed (Aug 17, 2016). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ 68.0 68.1 Graham, Mark (October 1, 2018). More than 9 million broken links on Wikipedia are now rescued. - ↑ Graham, Mark (September 17, 2020). Cloudflare and the Wayback Machine, joining forces for a more reliable Web. - ↑ Internet Archive Frequently Asked Questions (April 2, 2014). - ↑ 71.0 71.1 Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ YouTube – Archiveteam. - ↑ Internet Archive Frequently Asked Questions. - ↑ 74.0 74.1 74.2 Lloyd, Howard (October 2009). Order to Disable Robots.txt. - ↑ Cortes, Antonio (October 2009). Motion Opposing Removal of Robots.txt. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Looking For Evidence in Virtual Places Admissibility of Internet Evidence. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Coggins, Wynn W. (Fall 2002). Prior Art in the Field of Business Method Patents – When is an Electronic Document a Printed Publication for Prior Art Purposes?. USPTO. - ↑ Debunking the Wayback Machine. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Internet Archive FAQ. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Jeff (September 23, 2002). exclusions from the Wayback Machine (Blog). Wayback Machine Forum. Internet Archive. Author and Date indicate initiation of forum thread. - ↑ Miller, Ernest. Sherman, Set the Wayback Machine for Scientology (Blog). LawMeme. Yale Law School. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ 89.0 89.1 Internet Archive v. Shell, 505 F.Supp.2d 755 at justia.com, 1:2006cv01726 (Colorado District Court August 31, 2006) ("'April 25, 2007 Settlement agreement announced.' Filing 65, 2007-04-30: '...therefore ORDERED that this matter shall be DISMISSED WITH PREJUDICE...'"). - ↑ 90.0 90.1 Babcock, Lewis T. (February 13, 2007). Internet Archive v. Shell Civil Action No. 06cv01726LTBCBS. “1) Internet Archive's motion to dismiss Shell's counterclaim for conversion and civil theft (Second Cause of Action) is GRANTED, 2) Internet Archive's motion to dismiss Shell's counterclaim for breach of contract (Third Cause of Action) is DENIED; 3) Internet Archive's motion to dismiss Shell's counterclaim for Racketeering under RICO and COCCA (Fourth Cause of Action) is GRANTED.” - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Samson, Martin H. (2007). Internet Archive v. Suzanne Shell. Internet Library of Law and Court Decisions. “More importantly, held the court, Internet Archive's mere copying of Shell's site, and display thereof in its database, did not constitute the requisite exercise of dominion and control over defendant's property. Importantly, noted the court, the defendant at all times owned and operated her own site. Said the Court: 'Shell has failed to allege facts showing that Internet Archive exercised dominion or control over her website, since Shell's complaint states explicitly that she continued to own and operate the website while it was archived on the Wayback machine. Shell identifies no authority supporting the notion that copying documents is by itself enough of a deprivation of use to support conversion. Conversely, numerous circuits have determined that it is not.'” - ↑ brewster (April 25, 2007). Internet Archive and Suzanne Shell Settle Lawsuit. “Both parties sincerely regret any turmoil that the lawsuit may have caused for the other. Neither Internet Archive nor Ms. Shell condones any conduct which may have caused harm to either party arising out of the public attention to this lawsuit. The parties have not engaged in such conduct and request that the public response to the amicable resolution of this litigation be consistent with their wishes that no further harm or turmoil be caused to either party.” - ↑ Stobbe, Richard (December 5, 2014). Copyright Implications Of A "Right To Be Forgotten"? Or How To Take-Down The Internet Archive.. Mondaq. - ↑ McVeigh, Glennys (October 16, 2014). Davydiuk v. Internet Archive Canada, 2014 FC 944. CanLII. Federation of Law Societies of Canada. - ↑ Southcott, Richard F. (November 30, 2016). Davydiuk v. Internet Archive Canada and Internet Archive, 2016 FC 1313 (CanLII). CanLII. Federation of Law Societies of Canada. - ↑ Cox, Joseph (May 22, 2018). The Wayback Machine Is Deleting Evidence of Malware Sold to Stalkers. - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ Where to find what's disappeared online, and a whole lot more: the Internet Archive. Public Radio International. - ↑ Online Censorship In China (2023-10-22). - ↑ There's no Wayback in Russia: Putin blocks Archive.org. - ↑ Russia won't go Wayback, blocks the Internet Archive. Digital Trends (June 26, 2015). - ↑ В России разблокирован крупнейший интернет-архив (ru) (April 18, 2016). - ↑ The VirusTotal Team (March 25, 2015). 207.241.226.190 IP address information. VirusTotal. “2015-03-25: Latest URLs hosted in this IP address detected by at least one URL scanner or malicious URL dataset. ... 2/62 2015-03-25 16:14:12 [complete URL redacted]/Renegotiating_TLS.pdf ... 1/62 2015-03-25 04:46:34 [complete URL redacted]/CBLightSetup.exe” - ↑ Safe Browsing Diagnostic page for archive.org (March 25, 2015). “2015-03-25: Part of this site was listed for suspicious activity 138 time(s) over the past 90 days. ... What happened when Google visited this site? ... Of the 42410 pages we tested on the site over the past 90 days, 450 page(s) resulted in malicious software being downloaded and installed without user consent. The last time Google visited this site was on 2015-03-25, and the last time suspicious content was found on this site was on 2015-03-25. ... Malicious software includes 169 trojan(s), 126 virus, 43 backdoor(s).” - ↑ Help Us Keep the Archive Free, Accessible, and Reader Private | Internet Archive Blogs (November 29, 2016). - ↑ Sakr, Sharif (November 7, 2013). Wayback Machine web archive survives destructive fire but needs help to recover. - ↑ Internet Archive: Proposed Changes To DMCA Would Make Us "Censor The Web". Consumerist (June 7, 2016). - ↑ Die Trump-Angst grassiert (de). heise online (December 6, 2016). “Die Betreiber des Archives fürchten neben Zensur und Manipulation der digitalen Aufzeichnungen demnach auch die Überwachung der Archive-Nutzer. [The operators of the archive fear not only censorship and manipulation of the digital recordings, but also the surveillance of the archive users].” - ↑ Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). - ↑ The Entire Internet Will Be Archived In Canada to Protect It From Trump. Motherboard (November 29, 2016). - ↑ The Human Fear of Total Knowledge (June 3, 2016). External links[] - Lua error in Module:Official_website at line 90: attempt to index field 'wikibase' (a nil value). - Lua error in Module:Citation/CS1 at line 4515: attempt to index field 'date_names' (a nil value). Template:DigitalPreservation Template:Internet Archive navbox


--- [Internet Archive launches wayback machine: free service enables users ...] ---
SAN FRANCISCO (October 24, 2001) - The Internet Archive, a comprehensive library of Internet sites and other cultural artifacts in digital form, today launched the Wayback Machine, a free service allowing people to access and use archived versions of past web pages. For the first time, all members of the public will be able to search and view the Internet Archive's enormous collection of web sites, dating back to 1996 and comprising over 10 billion web pages. The service, which was unveiled tonight at a ceremony at the University of California at Berkeley's Bancroft Library, is available at web.archive.org. To use the Wayback Machine, visitors simply type in a URL in the provided search box, select a date, and then begin surfing on an archived version of the web. "In 1996, we created the Internet Archive because we felt it was critical to preserve a permanent record of this historically significant new medium for the public," said Internet Archive founder Brewster Kahle. "To date, the Archive has catalogued over ten billion web pages that might otherwise have been lost, giving us both a record of the origins and evolution of the Internet, as well as snapshots of our society as a whole around the turn of the century. For our fifth anniversary, we are opening up the Archive to the public by launching the Wayback Machine, so that everyone can travel back in time and view the Internet as it was in the past-and as it matures into the future." Since 1996, when the Internet Archive was founded in order to create a permanent collection of digital material for the public, the Internet Archive has been storing and recording web pages. Collaborating with institutions including the Library of Congress and the Smithsonian Institution, the Internet Archive's comprehensive library of the Web's digital past comprises 100 terabytes of data and is growing at a rate of 10 terabytes per month, eclipsing the amount of data contained in every library in the world including the Library of Congress, and making it the largest known database in existence. "By keeping an historical record of what Web sites looked like and how they evolved over time, the Internet Archive is an invaluable resource for journalism educators, academic researchers and people who just want to see how the media and our culture marked important historical events," said Paul Grabowicz, Director of the New Media Program and Assistant Dean at Northgate UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism. "Now, thanks to the Archive's new Wayback Machine, everyone has the opportunity to revisit, study and enjoy these important 'first drafts of history'." About the Internet Archive The Internet Archive was founded in 1996 in order to build a digital library and other cultural artifacts in digital form, with the purpose of offering permanent and free access to researchers, historians, scholars, and the general public. The Archive holds a collection of archived web pages, dating from 1996 and comprising 100 terabytes. Since 1999, the Archive has expanded its collections to include: a September 11 television and online catalog; an Election 2000 online library; archived movies from 1903-1973; and other documents. Located in San Francisco, the Archive is a 501(c)(3) public nonprofit whose benefactors include Alexa Internet, AT&T Research, Compaq, the Kahle/Austin Foundation, Prelinger Archives, Quantum DLT, Xerox PARC, the Library of Congress, and the National Science Foundation.


--- ["The Wayback Machine" Becomes Operational at the Internet Archive] ---
A: San Francisco, California, United States On October 24, 2001 The Internet Archive first made its retrospective data available through the Wayback Machine. The name Wayback Machine is a droll reference to a plot device in the animated cartoon series, The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, in which Mr. Peabody and Sherman routinely used a time machine called the "WABAC machine" (pronounced "Wayback") to witness, participate in, and, more often than not, alter famous events in history. "In 1996 Brewster Kahle, with Bruce Gilliat, developed software to crawl and download all publicly accessible World Wide Web pages, the Gopher hierarchy, the Netnews bulletin board system, and downloadable software. The information collected by these "crawlers" does not include all the information available on the Internet, since much of the data is restricted by the publisher or stored in databases that are not accessible. These "crawlers" also respect the robots exclusion standard for websites whose owners opt for them not to appear in search results or be cached. To overcome inconsistencies in partially cached websites, Archive-It.org was developed in 2005 by the Internet Archive as a means of allowing institutions and content creators to voluntarily harvest and preserve collections of digital content, and create digital archives. "Information was kept on digital tape for five years, with Kahle occasionally allowing researchers and scientists to tap into the clunky database.When the archive reached its five-year anniversary, it was unveiled and opened to the public in a ceremony at the University of California" (Wikipedia article on Wayback Machine, accessed 12-06-2013).
