=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dras - Wikipedia]
Dras (also spelt Drass, ISO transliteration: Drās), also known locally as Himababs, Hembabs, or Humas, is a town and hill station in Kargil district of the union territory of Ladakh in India. It is on the NH 1 between Zoji La pass and Kargil town. A tourist hub for its high-altitude trekking routes and tourist sites, it is often called "The Gateway to Ladakh". [3] The government's official ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dras

[Ladakh Heli Booking Services]
It is on the NH-1 between Zoji La pass and Kargil town. It is often called “The Gateway to Ladakh”. Traditionally, Drass is known as Hem-babs means “snow land” with the word “Hem” meaning snow.Drass town is at a height of 10,800 feet and is 140km from Srinagar and 63km from Sonmarg.
URL: https://heliservice.ladakh.gov.in/drass

[Dras: The Coldest Inhabited Hill Station In India - TravelTriangle.com]
Amarnath and Hemkund Sahib are the holiest places which are located close to the Himalayas. You can reach these places by trekking and witness excellent viewpoints during the trek.
URL: https://traveltriangle.com/blog/coldest-hill-station-in-india/

[This Indian Village Hits –40°C And Is The World's Second Coldest Place Where People Still Live | Travel - Times Now]
Called the Gateway to Ladakh, Dras in Jammu and Kashmir gives a new definition to what we call 'hill stations' This Indian Village Hits -40°C And Is The World's Second Coldest Place Where People Still Live
URL: https://www.timesnownews.com/travel/dras-kargil-ladakh-this-indian-village-hits-40c-and-is-the-worlds-second-coldest-place-where-people-still-live-article-153164343

[Drass Travel Guide - What to Expect from Drass]
Popularly known as the ‘Gateway to Ladakh’, Drass is located in the famous Kargil district of Jammu and Kashmir. The place is also the second coldest inhabited place in the entire world. Drass is quite famous for its snowfall especially during the winter season. What’s mindboggling is that the place observes a minimum temperature of at least -40 degrees Celsius and the beautiful valleys ...
URL: https://www.incredibleindia.gov.in/en/ladakh/kargil/drass-travel-guide-what-to-expect-from-drass


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dras - Wikipedia] ---
Dras (also spelt Drass, ISO transliteration: Drās), also known locally as Himababs, Hembabs, or Humas, is a town and hill station in Kargil district of the union territory of Ladakh in India. It is on the NH 1 between Zoji La pass and Kargil town. A tourist hub for its high-altitude trekking routes and tourist sites, it is often called "The Gateway to Ladakh". The government's official spelling of the town's name is "Drass".


--- [Ladakh Heli Booking Services] ---
Drass Drass, a tourist hub for its high altitude trekking routes and tourist sites,is a Hill Station in the Kargil district of the union territory of Ladakh in India. It is on the NH-1 between Zoji La pass and Kargil town. It is often called “The Gateway to Ladakh”. Traditionally, Drass is known as Hem-babs means “snow land” with the word “Hem” meaning snow.Drass town is at a height of 10,800 feet and is 140km from Srinagar and 63km from Sonmarg. Kargil town is further 56km after Dras on the national highway NH 1 from Srinagar towards Leh. Dras is one of the coldest place in India, experiencing an altitude-influenced mediterranean continental climate.Dras has been developedas a tourist destination since 1999, following the Kargil War. This new facet of the local economy initially took the form of visitors specially arriving to see the war zone. Notable places include: Manman Top, Gomchan valley, Dongchik, Ningoor Masjid, Bhimbet Stone, Dras War Memorial, Draupadi Kund,Tololing Waterfall,Tsochak Lake,Gangzla Trek and many more.


--- [Dras: The Coldest Inhabited Hill Station In India - TravelTriangle.com] ---
At Minus 45 Degrees, Dras Is The Coldest Hill Station In India I had a dream. The dream was about me venturing into the unknown, amidst strange faces with pronounced cheeks, scant villages with sparsely populated homes, meandering yaks in the pasture, clouds playing with gigantic mountains that were charred and rugged. And this picture closely resembles a calm heaven atop my bucket list, Dras – the coldest inhabited hill station in India. Fondly known as the ‘Gateway to Ladakh’, Dras is located in the heart of Kargil and is stationed at 10,760 feet. It begins at the foothills of Jogi-la-pass and goes on to exhibit the best of Kargil. There’s a lot you can do here if you plan to spare a few days from your trip to Kashmir. Best time to visit Dras June – September beginning is the best time to visit Dras. Average temperature during summer hovers around 15 degrees Celsius. While October – April is the time when Dras sleeps underneath a thick coat of snow, which makes it inaccessible and dangerous. How to reach Dras By air: Srinagar airport is the nearest airstrip at a distance of 103 km from Dras. It is well connected with major Indian cities by air. Taxis are the best mode of transport from the airport to Dras. By train: Jammu Tawi is the nearest railhead to Dras at 400 km distance. It takes 9 hours from Jammu to Dras in normal weather conditions. By road: From Srinagar, take NH1 which leads to Leh, Kargil, and Dras. State transport buses and private taxis ply from Srinagar to Dras. It takes 3 hours to cover the stretch of 141 km. Popular attractions in Dras Dras and its surrounding peaks carrying crisp whispering winds have a lot to say. Listen to them! Suggested Read: 8 Lesser Known Secrets Of Kashmir That It Has Kept To Itself 1. Tiger Hill Known as a famous war zone of the Kargil War in 1999, between India and Pakistan, this peak stands at 17,411 feet and is a distinguished structure in the area. Not asking you to climb to the peak, but yeah, you can marvel the great spectacle and rejoice! 2. Dras River Another beauty to watch out in the valley! The Dras River is truly an enchanting beauty crossing Dras. There are beautiful campsites around the river where you can erect your tent and feast on the exceptional nature views. 3. Drang Drung Glacier With drop dead gorgeous views around the Drang Drung Glacier near Pensi La Mountain Pass, is a spotless beauty that you can’t help gaping at. Located in the Kargil town, Drang Drung is Ladakh’s largest glacier that you can traverse. This place comprises of some of the most enchanting drives in entire Ladakh region. 4. Kargil War Memorial This place is a tribute to all the martyrs of the Kargil War. With fluttering flags of Indian Army and epitaph engraved on the stones around, this is the place to spend moments of solace in the lap of mountains. 5. Ningoor Masjid Located 7 km from the town center, Ningoor Masjid is an architectural marvel and a place of religious significance for Muslims. 6. Mushko Valley You can also choose to visit Minamarg and Draupadi Kund. Draupadi Kund is believed to be the place where Draupadi took her last bath in the Himalayas before she died. Among others, Bhimbath or the Bhim’s Stone, and the rock carving at Stiaqbo are other places of interest in Dras. Where to stay in Dras With not-so-luxury hotels around, a stay in Dras could be challenging if you haven’t done your homework properly. Kargil being 1.5 h drive from Dras has plenty of stay options. JKTDC Guest House and Hotel Caravan Serai are a few reliable options. Additionally, Sonmarg is also further 1.5 h drive to the southwest. Camping under the stars is one of the most exciting things to do in Dras. But traveling to nearby towns shouldn’t be a great deal as well. Further Read: 23 Things To Do In Kashmir To See The Best Of This Heaven On Earth! Set free your spirit and let it venture in the valleys and landscapes of Dras, because once it comes back, it will have infinite tales and plenty of memories to share. Disclaimer: TravelTriangle claims no credit for images featured on our blog site unless otherwise noted. All visual content is copyrighted to its respectful owners. We try to link back to original sources whenever possible. If you own the rights to any of the images, and do not wish them to appear on TravelTriangle, please contact us and they will be promptly removed. We believe in providing proper attribution to the original author, artist or photographer. Please Note: Any information published by TravelTriangle in any form of content is not intended to be a substitute for any kind of medical advice, and one must not take any action before consulting a professional medical expert of their own choice. Frequently Asked Questions About Coldest Hill Stations In India Which of the coldest hill stations are ideal for a trek? Leh is one of the most popular coldest hill stations in India that is ideal for treks, camping amidst the beautiful landscapes, lakes, and mountains. The best place to visit for nature lovers and adventure enthusiasts. Spiti Valley is also one of the coldest hill stations popular amongst trekkers. What is the lowest temperature in Leh in summer? The temperature can get as low as 7 degrees in Leh. This is one of the best treks in India to take in the months of summer. Which is the coldest hill station with a spectacular view in summer? Visit Dras in Jammu & Kashmir in summer for a breathtaking view of the surrounding landscape and mountains. The temperature in summer goes down to 15 degrees letting you explore the beauty of the place at your own pace. Which is the most scenic hill station that remains cold throughout the year? Coorg remains cool throughout the year and is one of the most scenic hill stations. This is the coldest hill station in South India. What is special about Ooty hill station being one of the coldest in India? Ooty is popular for its lush green landscapes, beautiful hilltop gardens, toy train rides, and breathtaking beauty of the landscapes. Which are the holiest places located in cold regions of Himalayas? Amarnath and Hemkund Sahib are the holiest places which are located close to the Himalayas. You can reach these places by trekking and witness excellent viewpoints during the trek. Which place in Kargil is a visual treat for trekkers? Matayen in Kargil has breathtaking landscape mountains and is a visual treat only for experienced trekkers. There are no facilities or amenities at this place, hence not suitable for beginner or intermediate trekkers. A place to visit only in summers. A perpetual nature seeker, Amit is on a mission to explore the best of planet Earth. Much famed as the Whistling Hound, Amit’s is currently based out of Wroclaw in Poland, and is experiencing the best of his life in Eastern Europe and Scandinavia.


--- [This Indian Village Hits –40°C And Is The World's Second Coldest Place Where People Still Live | Travel - Times Now] ---
High in the Kargil district of Ladakh, tucked between brooding mountains and endless stretches of snow, is Dras (also written as Drass), a Himalayan settlement famous for being the world’s second-coldest inhabited place. For most travellers driving between Srinagar and Kargil, Dras is a name seen on a signboard in passing. But for intrepid travellers who don't mind an extra stop, this stark landscape is extraordinary and worth exploring. In winter, temperatures in Dras plunge below –40°C Why Is Dras Famous? In winter, temperatures in Dras plunge below –40°C, turning this quiet village into almost a frozen landscape where life goes on very slowly. Located on the foot of Zoji La mountain pass, Dras might be a tough winter destination but in summers, it is a popular travel hotspot since the treks to Amarnath Cave and the Suru Valley begin from here.The village also sits close to the Tiger Hill and Tololing viewpoints, major landmarks from the Kargil War, adding historical significance to its natural allure. You can also visit Manman Top from where you can see the LOC before visiting Brigade War Gallery which showcases information about the Kargil War. The village is also home to Dras War Memorial, which commemorates the soldiers and officers who lost their lives in 1999 war between India and Pakistan. Dras War Memorial Where To Stay In Dras Travellers often describe Dras as remote, but it’s precisely this remoteness that makes it unique. Expect small homestays serving hot butter tea and mountain hospitality that makes J&K a travel favourite.Best Time To Visit Dras The best time to explore Dras is between June and September, when roads are open and the valley is at its greenest. Winter visits are for seasoned adventurers, but even glimpses of this frozen village from the highway feel unforgettable.The best time to explore Dras is between June and September How To Reach Dras The closest airport to Dras is Leh, and the closest railway station lies in Srinagar called Jammu Tawi. Additionally, several buses operating between Srinagar and Kargil pass through the Dras sector.Travel News - Find latest news and tips based on Indian and World travel including top 10 travel destination, tourism information, how to reach visit and more at Times Now.


--- [Drass Travel Guide - What to Expect from Drass] ---
No content
