=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Royal E. Ingersoll - Wikipedia]
Royal Eason Ingersoll (20 June 1883 - 20 May 1976) was a United States Navy four-star admiral who served as Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet (CINCLANT) from January 1, 1942 to late 1944; Commander, Western Sea Frontier from late 1944 to 1946; and Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. Fleet/Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (DCOMINCH/DCNO) from late 1944 to late 1945. Ingersoll was born in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_E._Ingersoll

[Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll :: Stockdale Center for...]
Jul 14, 2025 · Two years later, he returned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations as Assistant to the Chief, and on January 1, 1942, with the rank of Vice Admiral, he was designated Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, hoisting his flag in the USS Augusta.
URL: https://www.usna.edu/Ethics/bios/ingersoll.php

[Adm Royal Eason Ingersoll (1883-1976) - Find a Grave Memorial]
US Navy Admiral. His military career spanned World Wars I and II and he served as Commander-in-Chief of the US Atlantic Fleet during World War II. Born in Washington DC, he was the son of Rear Admiral Royal R. Ingersoll. He attended primary schools in Annapolis, Maryland and received further training in public schools...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/5074522/royal_eason-ingersoll

[Ingersoll, Royal E. - Naval History and Heritage Command]
Royal Eason Ingersoll, son of the late Rear Admiral Royal Rodney Ingersoll, USN, and Mrs. (Cynthia Eason) Ingersoll, was born in Washington, DC, on 20 June 1883. By the time he entered the US Naval Academy in 1901 by appointment from Indiana, he had three times previously resided there and had taken a First Class cruise with the Class of 1900 on the USS Annapolis, with his father in command ...
URL: https://www.history.navy.mil/research/library/research-guides/modern-biographical-files-ndl/modern-bios-i/ingersoll-royal-e.html

[Grokipedia: Royal E. Ingersoll]
The ABC-1 Anglo-American staff ... joint operations, reflecting Ingersoll's influence on pre-war naval collaboration. On January 1, 1942, Vice Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll assumed command of the United States Atlantic Fleet, ...
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Royal_E._Ingersoll


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Royal E. Ingersoll - Wikipedia] ---
Royal Eason Ingersoll (20 June 1883 – 20 May 1976) was a United States Navy four-star admiral who served as Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet (CINCLANT) from January 1, 1942 to late 1944; Commander, Western Sea Frontier from late 1944 to 1946; and Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. Fleet/Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (DCOMINCH/DCNO) from late 1944 to late 1945.
Ingersoll was born in Washington, D.C., on 20 June 1883. He was second in a succession of three generations of U.S. Naval officers: his father, Rear Admiral Royal R. Ingersoll -  United States Naval Academy class of 1868, and his son, Lieutenant Royal Rodney Ingersoll II - USNA  class of 1934, was killed in a friendly fire accident on board the aircraft carrier Hornet (CV-8) on 4 June 1942, during the naval Battle of Midway.


--- [Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll :: Stockdale Center for...] ---
Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll Royal Eason Ingersoll was born in Washington, D.C., on June 20, 1883. He was second in a line of three generations of distinguished Naval officers: his father, USNA Class of 1868, served in the Civil War, Spanish-American War, and World War I, and his son, Lieutenant Royal Rodney Ingersoll II, Class of 1934, was killed in action on June 4, 1942, in the Battle of Midway, aboard the USS Hornet. Admiral Ingersoll graduated from the Naval Academy in 1905 and reported as a Passed Midshipman to the USS Missouri. In August of that year, he was one of the young officers assigned special temporary duty to attend the Russian-Japanese Peace Conference, held at the Naval Yard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire. When detached from the Missouri in May 1906, he was assigned briefly to the USS Marietta, and later the USS Hancock, then assisted in fitting out the USS Connecticut at the Navy Yard in New York. He served on board that battleship from her commissioning on September 29, 1906, until October 1907. He served as an instructor of Seamanship and International Law, and later of English, at the Naval Academy between 1911 and 1913, preceding his assignment to Asiatic Station. There he joined the USS Saratoga, Flagship of the Asiatic Fleet. He served briefly as her First Lieutenant, then became Aide and Flag Lieutenant on the Staff of the Commander-in-Chief. He returned to the United States, and on June 1, 1916, reported as Assistant for Communications, and Communication Officer, in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department. Concerning that assignment, he subsequently wrote: "The work in this office began to pick up as the tension in the diplomatic relations with Germany increased, and overwhelmed us on February 2, 1917, when diplomatic relations with that country were broken...." For organizing the greatly expanded Naval Communications Office during World War I, he was awarded the Navy Cross and cited "for distinguished service in the line of his profession in organizing, developing, and administering the Communication Office of the Navy Department." After the Armistice in November 1918, he was ordered to join Admiral William S. Benson, USN, then Chief of Naval Operations, concerning the establishment of a communication office for that commission. In February 1919, he returned home in the USS George Washington with the Presidential party, handling messages for President Woodrow Wilson on the voyage across the Atlantic. In March 1919 he again joined the USS Connecticut, serving this time as her Executive Officer until September 1920, then transferring to the USS Arizona. In June 1921, he reported to the Navy Department for a tour of duty in the Office of Naval Intelligence, and on March 26, 1924, assumed command of the USS Nokomis. Under his command, that gunboat was fitted out as a survey ship and cruised in the Cuban-Haitian area, making new charts of the north coast of Cuba. Completing the Senior Course at the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island in June 1927, he served the following year as a member of that Staff. In June 1928, he reported for duty as Assistant Chief of Staff to Commander Battle Fleet, in the USS California and continued similar duty on the Staff when Admiral Pratt became Commander in Chief, U.S. Fleet, his flag in the USS Texas. In August 1930, he was assigned to the Division of Fleet Training, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department, where he served until May 1933. He then reported as Commanding Officer of the USS Augusta, and in November 1933, was transferred to the Navy Yard, Mare Island, California, to fit out the USS San Francisco. He commanded that cruiser from her commissioning on February 10, 1934, until June 1935. The following three years of duty in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, as Director of the War Plans Division, included his assignment in June 1936 as Technical Assistant to the American Delegation at the London Naval Conference in 1935-1936. He again went to London in December 1937, concerned with requirements growing out of the London Treaty limiting naval armament. On July 16, 1938, he took command of Cruiser Division Six of the Scouting Force, his flag in the cruiser Minneapolis. Two years later, he returned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations as Assistant to the Chief, and on January 1, 1942, with the rank of Vice Admiral, he was designated Commander in Chief, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, hoisting his flag in the USS Augusta. He was advanced to the rank of Admiral the following July 1. Having organized the movements of the thousands of ships across the Atlantic in order to have men and supplies on hand at the precise hour for the North African landing in November 1942, he also had the responsibility of planning the composition of the naval escort forces which insured the troop convoys' safe arrival, and the old Navy tradition of "having never lost a troop ship" remained true. Following the African invasion, the Atlantic Fleet was employed in running troops convoys and transporting stores, munitions, and fuel of every character to the United Kingdom and the Mediterranean. As a side issue, it ran the convoys on the coast of Brazil and continuously waged the antisubmarine war which had been a matter of primary concern since the outbreak of hostilities. Admiral Ingersoll is generally credited with whipping the U-boat menace and with solving the vast Atlantic logistics problems. In addition, he had the responsibility of defense of the Western Hemisphere by U.S. naval forces and made changes in the disposition of air and surface forces stationed at various points in North and South America. For his services in this tremendously important command, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal and cited as a "...forceful and resolute leader under the critical conditions existing throughout a period of approximately three years...against a determined and ruthless enemy intent on world domination...." In November 1944, he was detached from command of the Atlantic Fleet and became Commander Western Sea Frontier, with Headquarters at San Francisco. In addition to commanding the naval forces engaged in protecting shipping in coastal waters, he managed the flow of supplies to the Pacific Fleet through West Coast ports. In carrying out this assignment, he had the status of a Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. Fleet, and Deputy Chief of Naval Operations. After the reorganization of the Navy in October 1945, he continued to serve as Commander Western Sea Frontier until April 10, 1946, when he was relieved of all active duty pending his retirement on August 1, 1946. In addition to the Navy Cross and the Distinguished Service Medal, Admiral Ingersoll was awarded the Victory Medal (World War I); the American Defense Service Medal; European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal; and the World War II Victory Medal. He was also awarded the Chevalier of the Legion of Honor by the French Government and the Order of Naval Merit (Grand Cross) by the Government of Brazil. Admiral Ingersoll was married in 1910 to Louise Van Harlingen of Atlanta, Georgia and had two children. Mrs. Louise Ingersoll was the sponsor for DD 990; their daughter, Alice Jean Ingersoll Nagle, is acting as proxy sponsor. Their son, Royal Rodney, was (with Admiral Ingersoll's father) the namesake of the first USS Ingersoll (DD 652). Admiral Ingersoll died on May 20, 1976.


--- [Adm Royal Eason Ingersoll (1883-1976) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
US Navy Admiral. His military career spanned World Wars I and II and he served as Commander-in-Chief of the US Atlantic Fleet during World War II. Born in Washington DC, he was the son of Rear Admiral Royal R. Ingersoll. He attended primary schools in Annapolis, Maryland and received further training in public schools in LaPorte, Indiana, and Wilmer's Preparatory School. In 1901 he was selected to attend the US Naval Academy at Annapolis and graduated with distinction in January 1905. In August of that year, he was one of the young officers assigned special temporary duty to attend the Russian-Japanese Peace Conference, held at the Navy Yard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire. He performed the required two years of sea duty on the battleship USS Missouri, the gunboat USS Marietta, the transport ship USS Hancock, and the battleship USS Connecticut before being commissioned an ensign in January 1907. From 1911 to 1913 he was an instructor of Seamanship and International Law, and later of English, at the US Naval Academy, after which he was assigned to the Asiatic Squadron, serving on the armored cruiser USS Saratoga, the flagship of the US Asiatic Fleet. He served briefly as her 1st Lieutenant, and then he became the Aide and Flag Lieutenant to the Chief-of-Staff of the Asiatic Fleet's Commander. He returned to the US and in June 1916, he was assigned as Assistant for Communications, and Communication Officer, in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department, Washington DC, and promoted to the rank of lieutenant commander the following August. After the end of World War I in November 1918, he joined Admiral William S. Benson, then Chief of Naval Operations, concerning the establishment of a communication office for that commission. In February 1919 he returned home on the ocean liner SS George Washington with the Presidential party, handling messages for President Woodrow Wilson on the voyage across the Atlantic Ocean. The following month he again joined the battleship USS Connecticut, serving this time as the Executive Officer until September 1920, then transferring to the battleship USS Arizona. In June 1921 he was promoted to the rank of commander and he reported to the Navy Department in Washington DC for a tour of duty in the Office of Naval Intelligence, and in March 1924, he assumed command of the patrol ship USS Nokomis, that was fitted out as a survey ship and cruised in the Cuban-Haitian waters, mapping the north coast of Cuba. In June 1927 he was promoted to the rank of captain and he completed the Senior Course at the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, serving the following year as a member of their staff. In June 1928, he reported for duty as Assistant Chief of Staff to Commander Battle Fleet, on the battleship USS California, and continued similar duty on the Staff when Admiral William V. Pratt became Commander in Chief, US Fleet, with his flagship the battleship USS Texas. In August 1930 he returned to Washington DC and was assigned to the Division of Fleet Training, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department. In May 1933 he became the commander of the heavy cruiser USS Augusta and the following November he was transferred to the Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Vallejo, California, to fit out the heavy cruiser USS San Francisco. He then commanded this cruiser from her commissioning in February 1934 until June 1935. He returned to Washington DC and served for three years in the Chief of Naval Operations, as Director of the War Plans Division, which included his assignment in June 1936 as Technical Assistant to the American Delegation at the London Naval Conference, London, England. He went to London again in December 1937, concerned with requirements growing out of the London Naval Treaty limiting naval armament. In May 1938 he was promoted to the rank of rear admiral and the following July he became commander of Cruiser Division Six of the Scouting Force, his flag on the cruiser USS Minneapolis. Two years later, he returned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Washington DC, as Assistant to the Chief, and in January 1942 he was promoted to the rank of vice admiral and became Commander in Chief, US Atlantic Fleet, with the USS Augusta as his flagship, and in July 1942 he was promoted to the rank of admiral. In November 1944 he became Commander Western Sea Frontier at San Francisco and was given the status of a Deputy Commander in Chief, US Fleet, and Deputy Chief of Naval Operations. He served in this position until April 1946 and retired in August 1946, with 41 years of continuous military service. His military awards and decorations include the Navy Cross, the Navy Distinguished Service Medal, the American Defense Service Medal with gold star, the American Campaign Medal, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with three service stars, the World War I Victory Medal, and the World War II Victory Medal. He also received the Chevalier of the Legion de Honneur by the French Government and the Order of Naval Merit (Grand Cross) by the Government of Brazil. He died in Bethesda, Maryland at the age of 92. His son, Lieutenant Royal Rodney Ingersoll II was killed in a "friendly fire" accident on board the aircraft carrier USS Hornet during the Battle of Midway in June 1942. The destroyer USS Ingersoll, commissioned in August 1943, was named in honor of his father, Rear Admiral Royal Rodney Ingersoll, and his son, Lieutenant Royal Rodney Ingersoll, II. US Navy Admiral. His military career spanned World Wars I and II and he served as Commander-in-Chief of the US Atlantic Fleet during World War II. Born in Washington DC, he was the son of Rear Admiral Royal R. Ingersoll. He attended primary schools in Annapolis, Maryland and received further training in public schools in LaPorte, Indiana, and Wilmer's Preparatory School. In 1901 he was selected to attend the US Naval Academy at Annapolis and graduated with distinction in January 1905. In August of that year, he was one of the young officers assigned special temporary duty to attend the Russian-Japanese Peace Conference, held at the Navy Yard, Portsmouth, New Hampshire. He performed the required two years of sea duty on the battleship USS Missouri, the gunboat USS Marietta, the transport ship USS Hancock, and the battleship USS Connecticut before being commissioned an ensign in January 1907. From 1911 to 1913 he was an instructor of Seamanship and International Law, and later of English, at the US Naval Academy, after which he was assigned to the Asiatic Squadron, serving on the armored cruiser USS Saratoga, the flagship of the US Asiatic Fleet. He served briefly as her 1st Lieutenant, and then he became the Aide and Flag Lieutenant to the Chief-of-Staff of the Asiatic Fleet's Commander. He returned to the US and in June 1916, he was assigned as Assistant for Communications, and Communication Officer, in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department, Washington DC, and promoted to the rank of lieutenant commander the following August. After the end of World War I in November 1918, he joined Admiral William S. Benson, then Chief of Naval Operations, concerning the establishment of a communication office for that commission. In February 1919 he returned home on the ocean liner SS George Washington with the Presidential party, handling messages for President Woodrow Wilson on the voyage across the Atlantic Ocean. The following month he again joined the battleship USS Connecticut, serving this time as the Executive Officer until September 1920, then transferring to the battleship USS Arizona. In June 1921 he was promoted to the rank of commander and he reported to the Navy Department in Washington DC for a tour of duty in the Office of Naval Intelligence, and in March 1924, he assumed command of the patrol ship USS Nokomis, that was fitted out as a survey ship and cruised in the Cuban-Haitian waters, mapping the north coast of Cuba. In June 1927 he was promoted to the rank of captain and he completed the Senior Course at the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, serving the following year as a member of their staff. In June 1928, he reported for duty as Assistant Chief of Staff to Commander Battle Fleet, on the battleship USS California, and continued similar duty on the Staff when Admiral William V. Pratt became Commander in Chief, US Fleet, with his flagship the battleship USS Texas. In August 1930 he returned to Washington DC and was assigned to the Division of Fleet Training, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department. In May 1933 he became the commander of the heavy cruiser USS Augusta and the following November he was transferred to the Mare Island Naval Shipyard, Vallejo, California, to fit out the heavy cruiser USS San Francisco. He then commanded this cruiser from her commissioning in February 1934 until June 1935. He returned to Washington DC and served for three years in the Chief of Naval Operations, as Director of the War Plans Division, which included his assignment in June 1936 as Technical Assistant to the American Delegation at the London Naval Conference, London, England. He went to London again in December 1937, concerned with requirements growing out of the London Naval Treaty limiting naval armament. In May 1938 he was promoted to the rank of rear admiral and the following July he became commander of Cruiser Division Six of the Scouting Force, his flag on the cruiser USS Minneapolis. Two years later, he returned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Washington DC, as Assistant to the Chief, and in January 1942 he was promoted to the rank of vice admiral and became Commander in Chief, US Atlantic Fleet, with the USS Augusta as his flagship, and in July 1942 he was promoted to the rank of admiral. In November 1944 he became Commander Western Sea Frontier at San Francisco and was given the status of a Deputy Commander in Chief, US Fleet, and Deputy Chief of Naval Operations. He served in this position until April 1946 and retired in August 1946, with 41 years of continuous military service. His military awards and decorations include the Navy Cross, the Navy Distinguished Service Medal, the American Defense Service Medal with gold star, the American Campaign Medal, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with three service stars, the World War I Victory Medal, and the World War II Victory Medal. He also received the Chevalier of the Legion de Honneur by the French Government and the Order of Naval Merit (Grand Cross) by the Government of Brazil. He died in Bethesda, Maryland at the age of 92. His son, Lieutenant Royal Rodney Ingersoll II was killed in a "friendly fire" accident on board the aircraft carrier USS Hornet during the Battle of Midway in June 1942. The destroyer USS Ingersoll, commissioned in August 1943, was named in honor of his father, Rear Admiral Royal Rodney Ingersoll, and his son, Lieutenant Royal Rodney Ingersoll, II. Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/5074522/royal_eason-ingersoll: accessed ), memorial page for Adm Royal Eason Ingersoll (20 Jun 1883–20 May 1976), Find a Grave Memorial ID 5074522, citing Pine Lake Cemetery, La Porte, La Porte County, Indiana, USA; Maintained by Find a Grave. Add Photos for Adm Royal Eason Ingersoll Fulfill Photo Request for Adm Royal Eason... Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) This memorial already has a grave photo. Please indicate why you think it needs another. There is no plot information for this memorial. Your photo request is more likely to be fulfilled if you contact the cemetery to get the plot information and include it with your request. You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Ingersoll, Royal E. - Naval History and Heritage Command] ---
55 captures 23 Oct 2016 - 11 Feb 2026 Jan FEB Mar 11 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260211113535/https://www.history.navy.mil/research/library/research-guides/modern-biographical-files-ndl/modern-bios-i/ingersoll-royal-e.html


--- [Grokipedia: Royal E. Ingersoll] ---
Royal Eason Ingersoll (June 20, 1883 – May 20, 1976) was a four-star admiral in the United States Navy, best known for commanding the Atlantic Fleet during World War II and playing a pivotal role in countering German U-boat threats while organizing massive convoys for Allied invasions in North Africa, Italy, and Normandy.[1][2]Born in Washington, D.C., to Rear Admiral Royal Rodney Ingersoll and Cynthia Eason Ingersoll, he came from a distinguished naval lineage, with three generations of his family—including himself—serving as officers in the U.S. Navy.[1] In 1901, Ingersoll entered the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, graduating fourth in his class in 1905 with distinction.[1][2] Commissioned as an ensign on January 31, 1907, his early career included service aboard ships like the USS Annapolis and USS Hornet, spanning World War I and interwar periods.[1]Ingersoll's prominence rose during World War II, when he was promoted to admiral on July 1, 1942, and appointed Commander in Chief of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet (CINCLANT) on January 1, 1942, a position he held until November 1944.[1] Under his leadership, the fleet supervised convoys comprising over 11,500 ships, ensuring the safe transport of troops and supplies across the Atlantic despite intense submarine warfare; his strategic organization of convoys was crucial for the November 1942 landings in North Africa (Operation Torch) and the June 6, 1944, D-Day invasion of Normandy.[2] He later served as Commander of the Western Sea Frontier from November 1944 to April 10, 1946, and as Deputy Chief of Naval Operations.[1] For his contributions, particularly in anti-submarine efforts, Ingersoll received the Navy Cross, the Distinguished Service Medal, the French Legion of Honor, and the Brazilian Order of Naval Merit.[1][2]On a personal note, Ingersoll married Louise Van Harlingen in 1910, with whom he had a daughter, Alice Jean Nagle, and a son, Lieutenant Royal Rodney Ingersoll II, killed in action during World War II.[1][2] He retired from the Navy on August 1, 1946, after 41 years of service, and spent his later years quietly in Washington, D.C., and LaPorte, Indiana, occasionally testifying on naval matters, such as before the Pearl Harbor inquiry committee.[1][2] Ingersoll died at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Bethesda, Maryland, at age 92.[1][2] Early life and education Family background Royal E. Ingersoll was born on June 20, 1883, in Washington, D.C., to Rear Admiral Royal Rodney Ingersoll and Cynthia Eason Ingersoll.[1][3]His father, Royal Rodney Ingersoll (1847–1931), was a career U.S. Navy officer who graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1868 and rose to the rank of rear admiral after serving in the Civil War as a midshipman, the Spanish-American War, and being recalled to active duty during World War I as president of the Naval Ordnance Board.[4][5]Ingersoll's mother, Cynthia Eason (1853–1933), hailed from Indiana, where she married Royal Rodney Ingersoll on August 23, 1873, in La Porte.[6][7]Raised in a naval family, Ingersoll experienced early influences from his father's military service, which shaped his upbringing across various duty stations, including time in Annapolis, Maryland.[1] The family's ties to La Porte, Indiana—rooted in his maternal grandfather Seth Eason, a pioneer of the city—provided a key residential connection, leading to Ingersoll's congressional appointment to the Naval Academy from that state despite his D.C. birth.[1][8]This naval heritage, particularly his father's long career, directly inspired Ingersoll's decision to pursue a path in the U.S. Navy.[9] United States Naval Academy Royal E. Ingersoll entered the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, in 1901, securing a competitive congressional appointment from Indiana's Thirteenth Congressional District.[1] Motivated by his family's strong naval tradition, including his father Rear Admiral Royal Rodney Ingersoll, a graduate of the Class of 1868, Ingersoll prepared through preparatory schooling in Annapolis and a first-class cruise aboard USS Annapolis under his father's command.[1]At the Academy, Ingersoll underwent rigorous training in seamanship, navigation, engineering, and gunnery, reflecting the institution's emphasis on building technical proficiency and leadership for naval officers.[1]Academy life was marked by strict discipline, including daily drills, academic pressures, and a hazing system for plebes, which fostered resilience among midshipmen. Ingersoll served as First Battalion Commander during his senior year (1904–1905), demonstrating early leadership, and he excelled in ordnance and gunnery, earning a sword and knot from the Class of 1871 for his proficiency.[1] His classmates included future naval leaders such as Chester W. Nimitz, who would rise to Fleet Admiral, providing Ingersoll with influential peers whose careers paralleled his own.[10]Ingersoll graduated with distinction in January 1905 as part of the Class of 1905, ranking fourth in his class of 114 midshipmen, which placed him firmly in the upper echelon.[11] Upon graduation, he received his initial commission as a passed midshipman, the standard entry rank for Academy graduates before full ensign status after two years of sea duty.[1] Early naval career Initial assignments (1905–1916) Following his graduation from the United States Naval Academy in January 1905, Royal E. Ingersoll reported as a passed midshipman to the battleship USS Missouri (BB-11), where he served from February 1905 until May 1906 during preparations for the Great White Fleet's circumnavigation of the globe.[1] In August 1905, while aboard Missouri, Ingersoll was temporarily detached for special duty at the Russian-Japanese Peace Conference in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.[1] Upon detaching from Missouri, he had brief assignments to the gunboat USS Marietta and the transport USS Hancock in May 1906, before assisting in the fitting out of the pre-dreadnought battleship USS Connecticut (BB-18) at the New York Navy Yard.[1]Ingersoll then served aboard USS Connecticut from her commissioning on 29 September 1906 until October 1907, during which time she served as flagship of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet and participated in initialtraining exercises in the Atlantic.[1] He was commissioned as an ensign on 31 January 1907 while in this assignment.[1] In June 1908, Ingersoll rejoined Connecticut in San Francisco to participate in the Great White Fleet's 14-month world cruise with the Battle Fleet, which departed Hampton Roads in December 1907 and returned in February 1909, demonstrating U.S. naval power globally.[1] He remained aboard Connecticut until May 1911, gaining extensive experience in battleship operations, fleet maneuvers, and navigation during Atlantic and Pacific deployments.[1] During this period, he was promoted to lieutenant (junior grade on 31 January 1910.[1]From May 1911 to August 1913, Ingersoll served as an instructor at the U.S. Naval Academy, teaching seamanship, international law, and English to midshipmen, which honed his expertise in naval theory and pedagogy.[1] In June 1911, shortly after assuming this role, he attended the Naval War College's short conference course in Newport, Rhode Island.[1] In September 1913, Ingersoll was assigned to the Asiatic Station aboard the gunboat USS Saratoga (PG-7), flagship of the Asiatic Fleet, initially as first lieutenant before serving as aide and flag lieutenant to the fleet commander.[1] These shipboard roles provided foundational experience in fleet communications and navigation amid operations in the Western Pacific.[1]On 1 June 1916, Ingersoll returned to the United States and was assigned as assistant for communications and communication officer in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations at the Navy Department in Washington, D.C., marking an early focus on naval signaling and coordination systems.[1] He was promoted to lieutenant commander on 29 August 1916 in this position.[1] World War I service With the United States' entry into World War I in April 1917, Lieutenant Commander Royal E. Ingersoll, having been promoted to that rank on August 29, 1916, continued his critical assignment in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, where he had served as Assistant for Communications and Communication Officer since June 1, 1916.[1] As diplomatic tensions with Germany intensified following the severance of relations on February 3, 1917, Ingersoll's responsibilities expanded dramatically to meet the demands of wartime naval operations.[9]Ingersoll led the organization and administration of the Navy's radio communications system, overseeing the establishment of the greatly expanded Naval Communications Office within the Navy Department. This effort transformed the office into a centralized entity capable of handling the surge in message traffic and ensuring secure, efficient radio operations across the fleet and shore stations. His work focused on developing robust networks that supported the coordination of transatlantic radio links, which were vital for protecting Allied convoys from German U-boat attacks and facilitating the rapid exchange of intelligence among naval forces.[1][9] Through these radio networks, Ingersoll contributed to early anti-submarine warfare planning by enabling real-time coordination of destroyer escorts, patrolaircraft, and convoy routing to counter the U-boat threat in the Atlantic.[1]For his "exceptionally meritorious service" in these endeavors, Ingersoll was awarded the Navy Cross in 1919. The citation specifically commended him for "distinguished service in the line of his profession in organizing, developing, and administering the Communication Office of the Navy Department during World War I," highlighting the foundational impact of his innovations on naval effectiveness.[12][1] Interwar period Post-war assignments Following the conclusion of World War I, Royal E. Ingersoll was promoted to commander in 1919 and assigned to support demobilization efforts, including the repatriation of personnel.[9] In March 1919, he served as executive officer aboard the USS Connecticut, a pre-dreadnought battleship that conducted four transatlantic voyages between New York and Brest, France, transporting over 4,800 troops home as part of the Navy's post-war recovery operations.[13][9][14]From September 1920 to June 1921, Ingersoll served aboard the USS Arizona.[9][1] From June 1921 to March 1924, he worked in the Office of Naval Intelligence at the Navy Department, where he contributed to post-war intelligence analysis and administrative reforms.[9][1]In March 1924, Ingersoll assumed command of the destroyer tender USS Nokomis (SP-609), where he oversaw hydrographic surveys in the Cuban-Haitian area, incorporating innovative airplane photography for mapping coastal waters.[1] His tenure aboard Nokomis lasted until June 1927, emphasizing practical applications of emerging aerial reconnaissance in naval surveying.[1][15]Ingersoll's World War I experience in communications notably shaped his post-war administrative focus, emphasizing efficient information flow in personnel and operational reforms.[1] Commands and promotions (1920s–1930s) In the early 1920s, following administrative roles in the aftermath of World War I, Ingersoll transitioned to operational commands that built on his prior experience in fleet operations and intelligence.[1]From June 1927 to June 1928, Ingersoll attended the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island, completing the Senior Course in June 1927, which focused on advanced studies in strategy, tactics, and naval operations.[9] Following graduation, he joined the War College staff as a member until June 1928, contributing to curriculum development and doctrinal discussions on fleet tactics and international naval policy during the late 1920s.[1] These efforts helped refine U.S. Navy approaches to combined arms coordination and strategic planning amid post-World War I disarmament treaties.[9]On 2 June 1927, Ingersoll was promoted to the rank of captain, reflecting his growing expertise in operational leadership.[1] He then served as Assistant Chief of Staff to the Commander, Battle Fleet, aboard USS California (BB-44 starting in June 1928, continuing in that role under Admiral William V. Pratt on USS Texas (BB-35, where he advised on fleet maneuvers and administrative coordination until 1933.[1]From August 1930 to May 1933, while in the Assistant Chief of Staff role, Ingersoll also served in the Division of Fleet Training in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, overseeing training programs to enhance naval readiness.[9]In May 1933, Ingersoll took command of the heavy cruiser USS Augusta (CA-31), leading the vessel in Pacific Fleet exercises that tested cruiser capabilities in scouting and gunfire support roles.[1] Later that year, in November 1933, he transferred to the Mare Island Navy Yard to oversee the fitting out of USS San Francisco (CA-38), assuming command upon her commissioning on 10 February 1934.[16] Under his leadership through June 1935, San Francisco conducted shakedown operations along the West Coast, including voyages to Hawaii, British Columbia, and the Panama Canal Zone, followed by participation in Fleet Problem XVI, a major exercise simulating amphibious assaults and fleet battles off the California coast.[16] During this period, he temporarily directed elements of San Francisco's operations in integrated cruiser division maneuvers, honing tactics for rapid deployment in potential conflict zones.[1]In June 1935, Ingersoll directed the War Plans Division in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, shaping contingency strategies for global naval commitments, and served as a technical assistant at the London Naval Conference to negotiate arms limitations.[1] He returned to London in December 1937 to implement treaty requirements affecting U.S. fleet composition.[1]On 1 May 1938, Ingersoll was promoted to rear admiral, marking his elevation to flag rank and assignment to command Cruiser Division Six of the Scouting Force, with his flag on USS Minneapolis (CA-36 starting in July.[1] In this role, he led cruiser operations focused on reconnaissance and escort duties, further advancing naval doctrine through practical application of War College principles in fleet exercises.[1] World War II Pre-war roles (1938–1941) In July 1938, following his promotion to rear admiral earlier that year, Ingersoll assumed command of Cruiser Division Six within the U.S. Fleet's Scouting Force, hoisting his flag aboard the heavy cruiser USS *Minneapolis* (CA-36.[1] In this Pacific-based role through mid-1940, he directed the division's operations, emphasizing rigorous training exercises to enhance cruiser tactics, gunnery proficiency, and coordination with scouting elements of the fleet amid growing international tensions.[1] These activities built on his prior interwar experience with cruiser commands, preparing forces for potential conflict while maintaining U.S. naval readiness in the region.[17]In August 1940, Ingersoll returned to Washington, D.C., as Assistant to the Chief of Naval Operations under Admiral Harold R. Stark, a senior staff position focused on strategic planning and fleet preparedness.[1] Through 1941, he advised on bolstering naval resources for emerging threats, including the expansion of the Neutrality Patrol established in September 1939 to safeguard American waters and report belligerent activities in the Atlantic.[18] His guidance contributed to reallocating assets, such as recommissioning over 70 destroyers and light minelayers, to support patrol operations as U.S. policy shifted toward aiding Allied shipping.[18]As the Lend-Lease Act took effect in March 1941, Ingersoll helped orchestrate naval support for transatlantic shipments to Britain, devising escort protocols to counter escalating U-boat attacks on merchant convoys.[19] This included preliminary arrangements for U.S. warships to relieve British escorts east of Iceland, ensuring safe delivery of vital materiel without direct combat involvement prior to Pearl Harbor. The ABC-1 Anglo-American staff conversations in Washington from January to March 1941, which aligned U.S. and Royal Navy strategies for Atlantic defense and prioritized convoy protection against Axis submarines, informed the planning efforts under his guidance as Assistant to the Chief of Naval Operations.[20] These talks laid foundational agreements for joint operations, reflecting Ingersoll's influence on pre-war naval collaboration. Commander, Atlantic Fleet (1942–1944) On January 1, 1942, Vice Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll assumed command of the United States Atlantic Fleet, succeeding Admiral Ernest J. King, with his flag in the heavy cruiser USS Augusta.[1] This appointment built on his prior experience in neutrality patrols, positioning him to lead the fleet during the escalating Battle of the Atlantic. Ingersoll was promoted to full admiral on July 1, 1942, reflecting the growing demands of wartime operations against German U-boat threats.[1]Ingersoll played a pivotal role in organizing naval support for Operation Torch, the Allied invasion of North Africa launched on November 8, 1942. As Commander-in-Chief, he coordinated the assembly and protection of convoys from U.S. East Coast ports, including Task Force 34, which transported over 35,000 troops across 3,400 miles undetected by Axis forces.[21] His oversight ensured the Western Task Force, centered on landings at Casablanca, received essential escort vessels such as battleship USS Texas and escort carrier USS Suwannee, enabling successful amphibious assaults despite Vichy French resistance.[21]Under Ingersoll's leadership, the Atlantic Fleet managed transatlantic convoys critical for supplying Britain and the Mediterranean theater, while implementing advanced anti-submarine warfare tactics to counter U-boat attacks. He appointed Captain Wilder D. Baker as fleet anti-submarine warfare officer in February 1942, standardizing sonar procedures and enhancing training by summer 1942, which improved detection and response capabilities.[22] Ingersoll directed the integration of air-sea coordination, deploying long-range B-24 Liberator patrols and escort carrier aircraft armed with acoustic torpedoes like Fido, alongside surface escorts.[22] By mid-1943, he shifted escort carriers such as USS Bogue, Card, and Santee from convoy protection to independent hunter-killer groups targeting U-boat refueling "Milch cows," resulting in the sinking of eight U-boats (including two Milch cow tankers) in June and July 1943, and seven additional Milch cow tankers by the end of August 1943 and a sharp decline in Allied shipping losses.[22] These efforts, including coastal convoying initiated in May 1942, reduced independent merchant sinkings and contributed to significant U-boat losses, including the sinking of eight U-boats during the Convoy ONS 5 battle from late April to early May 1943, amid the broader Black May when 41 U-boats were lost overall.[22]Ingersoll was relieved as Commander-in-Chief on November 15, 1944, by Admiral Jonas H. Ingram, after overseeing the fleet's successful contributions to securing Atlantic sea lanes.[23] For his wartime leadership, including these anti-submarine innovations and convoy protections, Ingersoll received the Navy Distinguished Service Medal.[1] Final commands and retirement (1944–1946) In November 1944, following his successful tenure as Commander in Chief of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet, Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll was detached and appointed Commander, Western Sea Frontier (ComWesSeaFron), with headquarters in San Francisco, relieving Vice Admiral David W. Bagley on November 17.[1][24]In this role, Ingersoll oversaw the defense of the Pacific coast, commanding naval forces responsible for protecting coastal shipping from potential threats and coordinating antisubmarine warfare operations along the West Coast.[1] He also managed the critical flow of supplies to the Pacific Fleet through West Coast ports, ensuring logistical support for the final offensives against Japan, including the organization of supply convoys that sustained advancing forces in the Central and Western Pacific.[1][9] These efforts were vital in the war's closing stages, as the enlarged scope of the Western Sea Frontier—expanded just prior to his arrival—focused on bolstering Pacific operations amid intensifying combat.[25]Concurrently, Ingersoll served as Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. Fleet, and Deputy Chief of Naval Operations under Admiral Chester W. Nimitz, providing high-level strategic oversight from his San Francisco base.[1][9] This dual responsibility extended through late 1945, during which he contributed to the Navy's reorganization in October 1945, adapting command structures to the shifting demands of the Pacific campaign and preparations for postwar demobilization.[1]Following Japan's surrender in August 1945, Ingersoll's commands emphasized the transition to peacetime operations, including the wind-down of convoy logistics and coastal defenses as the war effort concluded.[9] He was relieved of active duty on April 10, 1946, and placed on the retired list in the rank of admiral effective August 1, 1946, after 41 years of commissioned service.[1][9] Personal life Marriage and family Royal E. Ingersoll married Louise Estelle Van Harlingen on June 29, 1910, in Atlanta, Georgia.[26] Louise, born in Richmond, Indiana, in 1885, came from a prominent family with ties to Atlanta.[27][28]The couple's first child, son Royal Rodney Ingersoll II, was born on December 17, 1913, in Manila, Philippines, during Ingersoll's posting as an instructor in seamanship, gunnery, and ordnance at the naval station there.[29] The boy followed his father's path by graduating from the United States Naval Academy in 1934.[9] Tragically, Lieutenant Ingersoll II was killed in action on June 4, 1942, at the Battle of Midway while serving aboard the USS Hornet, struck by machine-gun fire from a crippled F4F Wildcat fighter attempting an emergency landing.[30][9]Their second child, daughter Alice Jean Ingersoll, who later married Arthur C. Nagle, was born on April 26, 1922, in Washington, D.C.[31][9] The family relocated frequently in accordance with Ingersoll's naval assignments, including residences in the Philippines, Hawaii, and various U.S. coastal cities, which shaped their nomadic lifestyle.[1] Louise managed the household and supported the children during Ingersoll's extended absences at sea and overseas, often drawing on her own background as a trained singer to maintain family stability.[32]The loss of their son deeply affected the Ingersoll family amid the pressures of World War II, compounding the challenges of Ingersoll's high-stakes command roles.[33] Later years and death After retiring from the U.S. Navy on August 1, 1946, Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll settled into a quiet life in Bethesda, Maryland, eschewing public engagements and roles.[1][2] He maintained residences in the Washington, D.C., area and in LaPorte, Indiana, his family's ancestral home, where he enjoyed time with his wife and daughter during his later years.[2]Ingersoll died on May 20, 1976, at the age of 92 in Bethesda Naval Hospital.[1][2] He was buried at Pine Lake Cemetery in La Porte, Indiana, near his family roots.[3]Contemporary obituaries highlighted Ingersoll's self-effacing demeanor throughout his career and his enduring legacy as commander of the Atlantic Fleet during World War II.[2] Awards and honors United States decorations Royal E. Ingersoll received the Navy Cross for his exceptional service as the head of the Naval Communications Office during World War I, where he organized and expanded the office to handle the immense demands of wartime signaling and coordination.[1] The citation praised his "distinguished service in the line of his profession as communication officer," highlighting his role in ensuring reliable naval communications amid the global conflict.[1]For his leadership as Commander in Chief of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet from 1942 to 1944, Ingersoll was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal, recognizing his resolute command during the critical Battle of the Atlantic against German U-boats.[1] The citation commended him as a "forceful and resolute leader under the critical conditions existing throughout a period of approximately three years...against a determined and ruthless enemy intent on world domination," crediting his strategies with safeguarding vital supply lines to Europe.[1][2]Ingersoll also earned several campaign and service medals reflecting his extensive career across both world wars. The World War I Victory Medal, with appropriate service clasps for his communications and operational roles, acknowledged his contributions to the Allied victory in Europe.[1] The American Defense Service Medal, with Fleet Clasp, was awarded for his pre-Pearl Harbor service in preparing U.S. naval forces for potential conflict while assigned to fleet duties.[1]His World War II service in the Atlantic theater qualified him for the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal, with stars denoting participation in key operations such as Operation Torch in North Africa and ongoing Atlantic convoy protections against submarine threats.[1] The American Campaign Medal was awarded for his service in the American theater.[1] The World War II Victory Medal recognized his overall contributions to the war effort from 1941 to 1945.[1] International awards In recognition of his leadership in the U.S. Atlantic Fleet during World War II, which facilitated vital convoy operations and hemispheric defense, Admiral Royal E. Ingersoll received honors from allied nations that underscored the collaborative Allied naval efforts.[1]France awarded Ingersoll the Chevalier of the Legion of Honor for distinguished service during World War II.[1]Brazil bestowed upon Ingersoll the Order of Naval Merit in the grade of Grand Cross for distinguished service during World War II.[1]The Netherlands honored Ingersoll with the Grand Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau for his contributions during World War II.[34]
