=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award]
2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics Meenakshi Balakrishnan was named recipient of the Eugene L. Lawler Award for research, development, and deployment of cost-effective embedded-system and software solutions addressing mobility and education challenges of the visually impaired ...
URL: https://awards.acm.org/lawler

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award - Wikipedia]
The ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award is awarded every two or three years by the Association for Computing Machinery to an individual or a group of individuals who have made a significant contribution to the use of information technology for humanitarian purposes in a wide range of social domains. [1][2] It is named after the computer scientist Eugene Lawler. [3] The award includes a financial reward ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACM_Eugene_L._Lawler_Award

[Prof. M Balakrishnan ('72 batch) receives 2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award]
Apr 27, 2019 · Indeed a very happy news to know that Prof. M Balakrishnan - BITSian 1972-77 Batch has been conferred with 2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics. He has been named recipient of the Eugene L. Lawler Award for research, development, and deployment of cost-effective embedded-system and software solutions addressing mobility and ...
URL: https://www.bitsaa.org/news/18254

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award]
Heading for ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award pages ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Individuals/groups making significant humanitarian contributions through the use of computing technology
URL: https://awards.acm.org/lawler/award-recipients

[ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Prof. M. Balakrishnan, April 2019]
Dec 29, 2011 · The CSE department is extremely proud that Prof. M. Balakrishnan has been awarded the 2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics for "research, development, and deployment of cost-effective embedded-system and software solutions addressing mobility and education challenges of the ...
URL: https://www.cse.iitd.ac.in/index.php/2011-12-29-23-14-30/students?id=128


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award] ---
No content


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award - Wikipedia] ---
The ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award is awarded every two or three years by the Association for Computing Machinery to an individual or a group of individuals who have made a significant contribution to the use of information technology for humanitarian purposes in a wide range of social domains. It is named after the computer scientist Eugene Lawler. The award includes a financial reward of US$5,000.




--- [Prof. M Balakrishnan ('72 batch) receives 2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award] ---
BITS Pilani Alumni Association The Global Alumni Network of BITS Pilani Activities Resources Communities BITSians Get Involved Give Back General Info Behind the Scenes All News Prof. M Balakrishnan ('72 batch) receives 2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Prof. M Balakrishnan - BITSian 1972-77 Batch has been conferred with 2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics. Posted on 27 Apr 2019 Indeed a very happy news to know that Prof. M Balakrishnan - BITSian 1972-77 Batch has been conferred with 2018 ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics. He has been named recipient of the Eugene L. Lawler Award for research, development, and deployment of cost-effective embedded-system and software solutions addressing mobility and education challenges of the visually impaired in the developing world. Balakrishnan, a professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, has dedicated more than a decade to addressing the challenges of the visually impaired by developing low-cost, computing technology-based solutions. Each of his devices has been developed by the meticulous integration of hardware, software, and firmware. His applications have not only improved the quality of life for countless people, but also have made their day-to-day lives dramatically safer. These technologies are especially valuable in the developing world, where there are fewer resources for the visually impaired. Perhaps his best-known technology is the SmartCane project, which allows the visually impaired to detect items above their knees within a distance of 3 meters. Balakrishnan equipped the probing cane with ultrasonic ranging, wherein the cane conveys the distance of obstacles using vibrations. We congratulate him on behalf of the BITSian family across the globe for this distinct contribution and achievement. https://awards.acm.org/award_winners/balakrishnan_4440475 Send Feedback Help and feedback Comments, suggestions, feedback is most welcome and we're constantly monitoring activity as we migrate to the new portal. If you feel any information is missing, you have a problem, have a general comment, or just plain love the new website, please let us know! Your feedback has been submitted. Thanks!


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award] ---
Home ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Award Recipients ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award Individuals/groups making significant humanitarian contributions through the use of computing technology Year Choose an Award A. M. Turing Award ACM Prize in Computing ACM Charles P. "Chuck" Thacker Breakthrough in Computing Award ACM Distinguished Service Award ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM Frances E. Allen Award for Outstanding Mentoring ACM Gordon Bell Prize ACM Gordon Bell Prize for Climate Modeling ACM - IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award International Science and Engineering Fair ACM Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award ACM - IEEE CS Ken Kennedy Award ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics ACM-IEEE CS George Michael Memorial HPC Fellowships ACM AAAI Allen Newell Award Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award ACM Policy Award ACM Presidential Award SIAM/ACM Prize in Computational Science and Engineering ACM Software System Award ACM Athena Lecturer Award ACM/CSTA Cutler-Bell Prize in High School Computing ACM India Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM India Early Career Researcher ACM India Outstanding Contribution in Computing by a Woman ACM India Outstanding Contribution to Computing Education IPSJ/ACM Award for Early Career Contributions to Global Research CCF-ACM Award for Artificial Intelligence ACM Fellows ACM Distinguished Member ACM Senior Member ACM Luiz André Barroso Award Region Choose a Region Asia Europe North America All Years, All Awards Name Award Year Region DL Ehrensperger, Albrecht ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2005 North America Stone, Antonia ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 1999 North America Siva, Ernest ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2005 North America Abowd, Gregory D. ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2009 North America Nelson, Jelani ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2022 North America Schoening, Johannes ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2012 Europe Blitch, John ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2001 North America Banks, Ken ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2016 Europe Mataric, Maja ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2024 North America Balakrishnan, Meenakshi ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2018 Asia Ball, Patrick ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2003 North America Wang, Randy ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2007 North America Anderson, Richard ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2020 North America Murphy, Robin R ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2014 North America Mbuguah, Solomon ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2005 North America Bartoschek, Thomas ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics 2012 Europe List of ACM Awards Career-Long Contributions ACM A.M. Turing Award ACM Distinguished Service Award ACM Fellows Early-to-Mid-Career Contributions ACM Grace Murray Hopper Award ACM Prize in Computing ACM Distinguished Member ACM Senior Member Specific Types of Contributions ACM Charles P. "Chuck" Thacker Breakthrough in Computing Award ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Humanitarian Contributions within Computer Science and Informatics ACM Frances E. Allen Award for Outstanding Mentoring ACM Gordon Bell Prize ACM Gordon Bell Prize for Climate Modeling ACM Luiz André Barroso Award ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award ACM Paris Kanellakis Theory and Practice Award ACM Policy Award ACM Presidential Award ACM Software System Award ACM Athena Lecturer Award ACM AAAI Allen Newell Award ACM-IEEE CS Eckert-Mauchly Award ACM-IEEE CS Ken Kennedy Award Outstanding Contribution to ACM Award SIAM/ACM Prize in Computational Science and Engineering ACM Programming Systems and Languages Paper Award Student Contributions ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM-IEEE CS George Michael Memorial HPC Fellowships ACM/CSTA Cutler-Bell Prize in High School Computing International Science and Engineering Fair Regional Awards ACM India Doctoral Dissertation Award ACM India Early Career Researcher Award ACM India Outstanding Contributions in Computing by a Woman Award ACM India Outstanding Contribution to Computing Education Award IPSJ/ACM Award for Early Career Contributions to Global Research CCF-ACM Award for Artificial Intelligence SIG Awards How Awards Are Proposed Establishing an ACM Award Establishing a Best Paper Award for ACM Periodicals


--- [ACM Eugene L. Lawler Award for Prof. M. Balakrishnan, April 2019] ---
No content
