=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dalen's Closet | Critical Role Wiki - Fandom]
Aug 29, 2019 — ... Liam O'Brien playing Derrig and Vax'ildan. Several former guest ... ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 1:01:00. ↑ See "Dalen's Closet ...
URL: https://criticalrole.fandom.com/wiki/Dalen%27s_Closet

[Liam O'Brien | Critical Role Wiki - Fandom]
This page is about the actor. For the character from the "Liam's Quest" one-shots, see Liam O'Brien (character). For the character from the "Thursday by Night" one-shots, see Liam O'Brien (vampire). Liam O'Brien is a voice actor, voice director, and a member of the founding cast of Critical Role. He plays Halandil Fang in Campaign Four. In previous campaigns, he played Vax'ildan, Caleb ...
URL: https://criticalrole.fandom.com/wiki/Liam_O%27Brien

[Liam OBrien (visual voices guide) - Behind The Voice Actors]
Known for voicing Gaara, Akihiko Sanada, and Asura. View 465 images and 65 sounds of Liam O'Brien's characters from their voice acting career. Was born May 28 - Weehawken, New Jersey, USA.
URL: https://www.behindthevoiceactors.com/Liam-OBrien/

[Liam O'Brien - Critical Role]
Liam O'Brien is a voice actor, voice director, and a member of the main cast of Critical Role. He plays Halandil Fang in Campaign 4. In previous campaigns, he played Vax'ildan, Caleb Widogast and Orym. He has also been the Dungeon Master for several one-shot episodes.
URL: https://criticalrole.miraheze.org/wiki/Liam_O%27Brien

[Dalen's Closet | Critical Role Wiki | Fandom]
Vox Machina returns in this special one-shot, canonically taking place approximately one year after Campaign 1 and the events of "The Search For Bob" (Sx45). Vox Machina return to the beaches of Dalen's Closet for ...
URL: https://criticalrole.fandom.com/wiki/Dalen's_Closet


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dalen's Closet | Critical Role Wiki - Fandom] ---
"Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) is the forty-seventh special episode of Critical Role. Vox Machina returns in this special one-shot, canonically taking place approximately one year after Campaign 1 and the events of "The Search For Bob" (Sx45). Vox Machina return to the beaches of Dalen's Closet for the official wedding of Vex'ahlia and Percival, but no wedding ever goes off without a hitch... Synopsis[] Pre-Show[] This adventure is one of the stretch goals for The Legend of Vox Machina Kickstarter campaign. Previously on Critical Role[] So, last we left off, Vox Machina, heroes of Emon and Exandria at large, had managed to seal Vecna, the newly ascended god, beyond the Divine Gate, with losses of friends and loved ones, but protected the lives of many, many more and generations to come. They then lost their friend Grog, his soul jettisoned to the land of Pandemonium. Following suit, they chased down the location of his spirit, freed him from his prison, and then fought their way back seeking the githzerai entity known as "Bob", as so given by the team here. You managed to find yourself back to Exandria, whole, together, and that was that. History carried on. Yet here we are about a year later, in this time. Many of you have found new epilogues to yourselves, begun to build a life outside of the adventurers'-type existence. That involves bringing Whitestone to the beginning of its new heights. That involves reconnecting with one's daughter. That involves gathering the people under the banner of their new proven leader. That involves kindling a relationship long pursued and teased. That involves finding new ways to get drunk and beat the face of those that dare step on and call you a name. And that involves, actually, the birth of a new child... Part I[] Percival and Vex'ahlia reveal that in the past year, they had a child, Vesper Elaina de Rolo. Alongside Percy's sister Cassandra, they are the new leadership in Whitestone. They have planned a destination wedding at Dalen's Closet to which they've invited at least 150 people, but are hoping almost none of them will actually show up. In the days before the wedding, the closest of their friends have gathered at Whitestone. Keyleth has brought a plus-one, Derrig, the Master of Defense in Zephrah, acting at the Zephrah Council's insistence as her bodyguard, although she and he both recognize she doesn't need one. The party, including Taryon with Doty 5.0, gather at the Sun Tree and Keyleth transports them to Dalen's Closet at mid-day, where the wedding location has been prepared for the rehearsal dinner that night. Taryon is going to act as Vex'ahlia's Man of Honor, and Keyleth is surprised to learn she will be Percy's Best Person and is expected to have a speech ready for that night. She nervously checks on the wedding arrangements and then goes to write her speech. Vex asks Scanlan to walk her down the aisle, and he agrees. Grog is recruited to act as the flower girl, and Pike will officiate. Pike and Scanlan are in separate rooms, as Scanlan is rooming with Kaylie. In a conversation, Derrig congratulates Percy and Vex on their child and reveals he has four of his own, triplet daughters and a son. He also met Vax'ildan while he lived in Zephrah and tells Vex that Vax was a good man and would wish to be there. On the way to the Perfect Pearl for a drink, Vex and Percy meet Allura and Kima. Evening arrives and the group assembles for the rehearsal dinner, including guests Shaun Gilmore, Jarett Howarth, and Syldor, Devana and Velora Vessar. Percy and Vex receive several gifts that have arrived, including mythril silverware from Nostoc Greyspine[1] and several cases of red and white wine from Kamordah in Wildemount from Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien.[2] They open the wine to drink with dinner. Keyleth[3] and Tary[4] give their speeches. As the dinners are brought out, the guests and the members of the wedding party (except Grog, Derrig, and Trinket) begin to doze off and then fall unconscious, stable at zero hit points. Heavy fog rolls in from the ocean, engulfing the beachside, shadows moving quickly within it. Break[] - Pre-orders are now available in the Critrole.com shop for Vex'ahlia's and Percival's wedding rings. - The slightly redesigned Vox Machina d20 sets are now available in both the US and UK stores. - Taliesin's Twilight Zone Advertisement for Twitch subscriptions. - A collection of every time a critter burned Brian on Travis Willingham's Yee-Haw Game Ranch. - Critters' Wedding Art Montage. Part II[] Derrig the brave is married to his wife. He's always tired from his four tykes. He has tattooes and he owns a sword. That's all I know and nothing more. The boring ballad, the boring ballad, the boring ballad of Derrig. He calls our friend "The Tempest" or "Chief". His sword goes into a back sheath. He can make three attacks and never four. That's all I know of him, nothing more. The boring ballad, the boring ballad, the boring ballad of Derrig. The shapes are humanoids wrapped in black and grey clothing with obscured faces, burning red eyes, claws, fangs, and inhuman speed. Derrig, Grog, and Trinket attack. The dark figures attack with claws and neck bite attacks that do necrotic damage reducing maximum hit points and, when seriously wounded, they turn to mist and disappear. Derrig succeeds in waking Keyleth, bringing her to one hit point. Trinket rushes to guard Vex and discovers that both she and Percy are no longer there. Keyleth casts Greater Restoration and Healing Word on Pike, getting her up, and Pike casts Mass Healing Word, waking Scanlan, Kima, and Allura. Enraged by the missing Vex, Trinket gets two crits in a row, killing one of the vampires, and the last of them are quickly then dispatched. Inspired by Scanlan's ballad to him, Derrig notices footprints heading off down the beach and the party follows them towards a beachside cliff. Meantime, Vex and Percy come to consciousness, hearing waves crashing, with hands bound behind them and shackled to their ankles. Two figures lift them both onto their knees and they see they are about five feet from the edge of the cliff dropping a few hundred feet into the ocean below. A shadowed, cloaked figure approaches, beard coming to a manicured point, long hair slicked back, with pale skin and very intense eyes. It is Lord Sylas Briarwood. He confronts them, telling them that they have both killed his beloved Delilah[6][7] and this is his judgment upon them, the first of many vengeances to be brought down upon their loved ones. With that, he drags them to the cliff edge, and despite Vex'ahlia headbutting him in desperation, throws them both from the cliff and into the ocean, where the heavy manacles drag them down deeper and deeper. Vex has one minute of air; Percy has three. She tries and fails to cast Conjure Woodland Beings; Percy tries and fails to swim both of them toward the cliff despite the manacles. Vex pulls a pin from Percy's jacket and attempts and fails to pick the lock of her shackles. Abandoning his attempt to pull Vex with him, Percy reaches the side of the cliff and is no longer sinking as his Boots of Spider Climbing latch on. He watches as Vex runs out of air and begins to drown. With no other choice, Percy climbs up the cliff to the surface and screams. The rest of the party hear and recognize his cries, and run toward the cliff, with Grog going to the clifftop and the remaining four heading into the water. Keyleth becomes a water elemental and Scanlan a dolphin, but Vex'ahlia runs out of air and drowns just before Keyleth reaches her. Keyleth pulls her back toward Pike, moving both Pike and the dead Vex onto the beach, where Pike uses Vex's earrings to cast Revivify. Matt rolled a 13 for the DC, and because Vex had died three times previously, the Revivify just succeeded. Scanlan reaches Percy and casts Polymorph on him, turning him into a raven just long enough for Percy to fly up the cliffside to its top. Grog reaches the top of the cliff and sees Sylas and four other figures looking over the edge. They surround and attack him while the rest of Vox Machina rush to join him. Vex and Pike begin running toward the clifftop while Scanlan Dimension Doors there and Keyleth becomes an earth elemental to move up through the cliff, followed by Derrig climbing. Once the bulk of the party reaches the top, Sylas sees which way the wind is blowing and begins moving away. The party quickly dispatches the lesser vampires, as Sylas continues to run to try to escape the light from Vex's Blessing of the Dawnfather, turning into a bat. Grog throws his Blood Axe and hits him, forcing him out of bat form, and he falls at the feet of Keyleth and Scanlan. Pike casts Spiritual Weapon to create a bow for Vex, and Vex gets the How Do You Want to Do This with it on Sylas. Radiating sunlight (as champion of the Dawnfather) eradicates his mist form, destroying Sylas permanently. The rest of the wedding party now reaches the cliff, drawn by the beacons of light emanating from it, including Allura, Kima, Gilmore, Tary, and Doty, ready to join the fray. Scanlan suggests that if they wait another day, there could be another attack, and since everyone's there, maybe they should have the ceremony there and then, and they agree. Keyleth makes a bouquet of snowdrops for Vex and Grog begins throwing smashed pebbles in lieu of the snowdrops he was to have carried. Scanlan turns into a triceratops and rides Vex'ahlia down the aisle, and Pike officiates the wedding. Percy and Vex'halia exchange heartfelt vows, exchange rings, and just as Pike is about to pronounce them husband and wife, Scanlan breaks in to ask if he can offer one more word. He tells Percy and Vex that he wants to gift them a wish: that Vex's brother would be able to speak to her for just a moment or two on her wedding day. He casts Wish, saying, "I wish that Vax'ildan can say a few words at his sister's wedding." Off the cliffside, they see a dark silhouette towering: the Raven Queen. From under her cloak, they see the familiar black leather armor, feathered mantle, and black hair of Vax'ildan as he steps once more on the mortal plane. Over his face is a black leather raven mask, which he removes. He speaks slowly, showing little emotion, and hesitates when Vex hugs him before hugging back. He tells her he is safe and always with them, and his love will never dim. Vex urges him to Keyleth, and he bows, saying, "Hail to the Tempest," before Vex tells him not to be weird and go hug her. They each say they will never get over the other, and Vax tells her that although he is far, he is not gone. His final words to the party: "Thank you. Live!" before he disappears in a scattering of feathers. Percy and Vex tell Scanlan that was a remarkable present, and he says it was his last Wish, but it was worth it. Pike then pronounces them husband and wife. Keyleth druidcrafts one thousand fireflies exploding outward, and Scanlan shoots a bunch of lightning bolts out of his dick. The celebration begins and Scanlan catches the bouquet resulting in Grog tackling him in an attempt to grab it. Featured Characters[] Vox Machina[] - Keyleth - Percival de Rolo - Scanlan Shorthalt - Grog Strongjaw - Pike Trickfoot - Vex'ahlia - Trinket - Taryon Darrington - Doty 5.0 - Vax'ildan New[] Returning[] Mentioned[] - Delilah Briarwood - Vesper Elaina de Rolo - Jarett Howarth - Cassandra de Rolo - Syldor Vessar - Devana Vessar - Velora Vessar - J'mon Sa Ord - Nel - Baernie, Leeta, Maeve and Will (unnamed) Inventory[] | Adjustment | Count | Item | Source | Destination | Notes | |---|---|---|---|---|---| Quotations[] - Sylas Briarwood: Long have I waited, learning, reading, listening, suffering. By the grace of ancient shadows stirred by a love unending, my soul was scattered beyond life and brought back twice now, home to be with my beloved Delilah. Twice she sacrificed everything for me. Everything. And twice you have torn her away from me, left without hope, agony unending for this eternal life-- unlife. I am cursed now without my partner. The paltry affections you both hold for each other are nothing by comparison to what we had, though amusing it is to see you go through the motions. You do not-- cannot-- understand what true, timeless love is. You could never discover the joy that you've robbed of us. For this timeless torture you've banished my soul to, I bring judgment to you both, the first of many vengeances to be brought down upon your loved ones. - Percy: (to Sylas) I used to fear you. Know that when I die, you will bore me. - Vex'ahlia: Oh my god, what if I die?! Scanlan: I think we get all of our gifts back. - Pike: (officiating the wedding) These two here are my family, a family we have all chosen: Lady Vex'ahlia, my sister, and Lord Percival Fredrickstein von Musel Klossowski De Rolo III, my brother. My life is richer for having known you. - Percival: When I met you, I was at the lowest place I had ever been. I was barely human, I had lost anything that mattered, and I had sunk into a deep over-romantic shadow. Then this new family came along, and you came along. And slowly, through time and experience, I learned from you that you can have a romanticized notion of the darkness within yourself, but that darkness must be cast by some light, and there's no sense not romanticizing that as well. and that I could find myself in that again. Every time I thought I would sink, I would see your face -- your face, the first time I truly lost control, and you told me to take off the mask. You have given me a future I had cheaply sold away. You have given me a family I thought forever lost, and a future I was prepared to sacrifice for something so trivial, I just literally just watched you take it, and it means nothing compared to this. I promise to walk into the future with you. I promise to build a family with you. And I promise to always be here for an adventure with you. - Vex'ahlia: I don't know when it happened, when I fell. I sat down to try to write vows and pinpoint the moment, but... Was it when I first met you, dressed in rags, starved? Was it when I saw you overcome that darkness inside, standing tall and proud and unbroken? I thought for sure it was when you stood next to me and helped me face fears I hadn't spoken aloud and support me in a way that no one other than-- other than my brother had ever done. But honestly, even by that point, I'd fallen. I think it happened through all the little moments that I didn't even notice: you sleeping on my shoulder in the Feywild, or when I saw you bent over laughing so hard you spit chicken out of your mouth because Scanlan had an arrow in his neck. I think I never expected anyone to mean as much to me as-- as Vax'ildan, to be as important to me, to feel like the other half. There was a hole in my heart, and I truly believe the only reason I didn't perish from it was because you were holding my heart so tightly. I thank the gods I gave it to you. It is yours, forever and always. I love you, dear. And I'm so glad we're together. - Pike: Vex, do you promise to take this man, and cherish him and love him in every way? Vex: I do. Pike: Percy, do you promise to take this woman, and cherish her and love her in every way? Percy: I do. Pike: Do you also promise to love and cherish Trinket for all of his days? Percy: I'm aware that's part of the bargain. - Vax'ildan: Scanlan Shorthalt, you are toying with the designs of the gods still, I see, old friend. - Vax'ildan: (to Vex) Don't worry about me. I am safe, and taken care of. I am always with you. You will live. As long as all of your hearts are beating, I will live within them. And my love will never dim. - Keyleth: (to Vax) How am I supposed to get over you if you keep sending ravens to me? Vax'ildan: I am imperfect, as are the gods. Keyleth: That was my poor attempt at humor. I'll never get over you. Vax'ildan: Nor I. But you will live, and your life will touch thousands. - Vax'ildan: (to Keyleth) I am far, but not gone. Keyleth: We know. Vax'ildan: Forgive me. Keyleth: There's nothing to forgive. Nothing. We get to go on, because of you. It's not taken lightly. - Vax'ildan: (to Vox Machina) Thank you. Live! Trivia[] - This episode was unlocked for reaching the $2 million stretch goal in the Kickstarter campaign to crowdfund The Legend of Vox Machina. - This is the eighth episode in which one player plays multiple characters, following "A Bard's Lament" (1x85), "Masquerade" (1x99), "Unfinished Business" (1x100), "Thar Amphala" (1x101) and "Race to the Tower" (1x102) (Scanlan Shorthalt/Taryon Darrington) in the first campaign; "The Search For Grog" (Sx42) and "The Search For Bob" (Sx45) (Grog Strongjaw/Bertrand Bell), with Sam Riegel once again playing Scanlan and Taryon as well as Liam O'Brien playing Derrig and Vax'ildan. - Several former guest players sent in-character congratulations to Percy and Vex via twitter, including Kit Buss (as Lillith Daturai),[8] Felicia Day (as Lyra),[9] Darin De Paul (as Sprigg),[10] Mary E. McGlynn (as Zahra Hydris),[11] Jason Charles Miller (as Garthok),[12] Chris Perkins (as Shale),[13] and ND Stevenson (as Tova). [14] References[] - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 0:49:15. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 0:49:40. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 1:01:00. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 1:03:20. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 1:53:47. - ↑ See "Race to the Tower" (1x102) at 3:35:54. Percy kills Delilah. - ↑ See "The Final Ascent" (1x113) at 2:35:58. Vex'ahlia kills Delilah. - ↑ https://twitter.com/AnemoneTea/status/1167382410100641792 - ↑ https://twitter.com/feliciaday/status/1167230491629506560 - ↑ https://twitter.com/DarinDePaul/status/1167222785392857089 - ↑ https://twitter.com/MaryEMcGlynn/status/1167216247076868096 - ↑ https://twitter.com/jasoncmiller/status/1167225785461223426 - ↑ https://twitter.com/ChrisPerkinsDnD/status/1167222979962388480 - ↑ https://twitter.com/Gingerhazing/status/1167223414551019521 Art: - ↑ Fan art of Grog the Flower Goliath, by oliviahintz (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Vex'ahlia sinking, by Minoukatze1 (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of The Wish, by Minoukatze1 (source). Used with permission.


--- [Liam O'Brien | Critical Role Wiki - Fandom] ---
- This page is about the actor. For the character from the "Liam's Quest" one-shots, see Liam O'Brien (character). For the character from the "Thursday by Night" one-shots, see Liam O'Brien (vampire). Liam O'Brien is a voice actor, voice director, and a member of the founding cast of Critical Role. He plays Halandil Fang in Campaign Four. In previous campaigns, he played Vax'ildan, Caleb Widogast, Orym and Lieve'tel Toluse. He has also been the Dungeon Master for several special episodes. Critical Role Productions[] Pre-stream[] Before Critical Role began, Liam and his close friend Sam created a podcast called allworknoplay, with the intention to get more fun into their busy schedules. For Liam's birthday they planned to play Dungeons & Dragons with some friends and shared their experience on the podcast. Towards the end of All Work No Play's second episode, the two of them talked about getting ready for the upcoming "one-time" D&D game. Liam asked Matthew Mercer to run the game, because Matthew kept telling him about the D&D game he was running and often invited Liam to join. Liam enjoyed the game so much that he messaged the other players shortly after, asking if they would like to start a continuing game. They have been playing ever since. Liam and Laura Bailey decided to play twins in Campaign One because they share their birthday, May 28th.[2] Before the game, the two of them spent about two hours at a diner creating their character backgrounds.[3] Before they started streaming, Liam recorded snippets of their gameplay. One can be heard in the second episode of All Work No Play and another one is available on his yotube channel. Main campaigns[] While playing as Vax'ildan in Campaign One, Liam came up with a backup character, a "halfling druid/monk from the Air Ashari, sent by Keyleth’s father, to be of aid to her in her grief".[4] This initial character idea eventually morphed into Orym, his player character in Exandria Unlimited and Campaign Three. Liam took part in the D&D Beyond Presidential Campaign, a recurring sponsorship segment created by Sam Riegel. Player characters[] See also: Player characters played by Liam O'Brien Main Campaigns[] - Vax'ildan, half-elf rogue (Assassin)/paladin (Oath of Vengeance)/druid (Campaign One: Vox Machina) - Caleb Widogast, human wizard (School of Transmutation) (Campaign Two: The Mighty Nein) - Orym of the Air Ashari, halfling fighter (Battle Master) (Campaign Three: Bells Hells) - Lieve'tel Toluse, elf cleric (Grave Domain) (Campaign Three: Bells Hells) - Halandil Fang, orc bard (Campaign Four) One-shots and miniseries[] - Kurt, human barbarian ("Critical Trolls for Extra Life" (Sx02)) - Reverend Forrest Alton, human ("Deadlands One-Shot" (Sx11)) - Jayne Merriweather, human cleric ("Bar Room Blitz" (Sx21)) - Liam O'Brien (vampire), vampire ("Thursday by Night: Part 1" (Sx24) and "Part 2" (Sx25)) - Cookie, a bear ("Trinket's Honey Heist" (Sx27)) - Quazirat Tolluz, draenei warrior ("Kobolds, Catacombs and Dragons (Oh My!)" (Sx29)) - Ringo, raccoon ("Crash Pandas: Too Trashed, Too Curious" (Sx37)) - Ally, human druid ("Critical Role and the Club of Misfits" (Sx38)) - Lieve'tel Toluse, elf cleric ("The Search For Grog" (Sx42), "The Search For Bob" (Sx45)) - Tomeytine, honesty earth pony ("Tails of Equestria One-Shot" (Sx44)) - Septimus Goodfellow, celebrity spiritualist ("Call of Cthulhu: Shadow of the Crystal Palace" (Sx46)) - Derrig, half-elf fighter ("Dalen's Closet" (Sx47)) - Buddy, ogre fighter ("The Adventures of the Darrington Brigade" (Sx49)) - Mordred, the Gaunt, crusader ("Diablo One Shot" (Sx54)) - Orym, halfling fighter (Exandria Unlimited Prime) - Forrest Coreman, chief of engineering ("The Nautilus Ark: A Johnson Corp Odyssey" (Sx60)) - Lucas Dankworth (NerfWormGrim01011) ("Generation Nord" (Sx72)) - Yolo, Zora soldier ("The Legend of Zelda One-Shot: Lookout, Here We Come!" (Sx76)) - Cosmo Grimm, occultist (Candela Obscura) - Xarlo Grandall ("Critical Role plays Daggerheart" (Sx83), "The Menagerie Returns!" (Sx84), "Ménagerie a Trois" (Sx85)) - Walden Orlock (Moonward) - Trystan Beasley, satyr bard Krampus ("Critical Role Presents: A Daggerheart Critmas Story Live Show" (Sx89)) - Garrett O'Neil ("Assassin's Creed Shadows One-Shot" (Sx90)) - Erro Mordaurum (Exandria Unlimited: Divergence) - Caleb Widogast, human wizard (School of Transmutation) ("Total Party Kill: Chicago Live 2025" (Sx95)) He also made a cameo as a villager NPC from Josgren's Hollow in "The Voiceless Village" (RTx04). Games played as Dungeon Master[] - "Critical Role EXTRA – Liam's Quest!" (Sx12) - "Critical Role Extra – The Return of Liam!" (Sx15) - "Liam's Quest: Full Circle" (Sx16) - "Liam's One Shot: 'Song of the Lorelei'" (Sx36) - "The Night Before Critmas" (Sx41) - "The Elder Scrolls Online: Blackwood - Part III: The Golden Goose" (Sx62) - "Persona 5 Tactica One-Shot" (Sx80) - Candela Obscura: The Circle of the Crimson Mirror ("Seeking Serenity", "The Gilded Graveyard", "Into the Abyss") Publications[] Liam wrote the Foreword for Critical Role: Vox Machina - Stories Untold. He acted as one of the Art Directors for The Chronicles of Exandria Volume One: The Tale of Vox Machina and was an art curator on The Chronicles of Exandria - The Mighty Nein. Other works[] → See also: Liam's IMDb profile Liam began his career in theater before moving on to voice acting in the early 2000s. He also branched out to voice directing, and has worked on several productions, like The Last of Us and Resident Evil 6. A lot of his work revolves around japanese anime dubbing, be it as a voice actor, voice director, or automated dialog replacement writer. One of his most well-known speaking roles is the character Gaara from Naruto. Personal life[] Liam is married to fellow voice actress Amy Kincaid. They have two children together, and owned a dog, Sprigg, who was named after the guest character of the same name.[5] Liam has stated that D&D has helped him get through a rough patch in his life after he developed hyperacusis.[6] Trivia[] - He shares his middle name, Christopher, with Matt Mercer. - "Lemur" is the nickname of the rest of the founding cast for him.[7] - Liam is 5'11" tall.[8] - Liam ties Travis for most player characters at 18. He additionally played a non-DM non-player character Cinna Brightbow. - His most played class is Fighter, with four characters. - More of Liam O'Brien's player characters have died than any other cast member on Critical Role. - Six of the characters Liam has played across one-shots and the main campaigns have died. Five of them were beyond resurrection or within a game without resurrection rules at their final death. - Liam is the only member of the cast who has played two characters of the same family: Derrig and his son-in-law, Orym. - It is tradition for Liam to choose Sam Riegel's character's race and class at the beginning of each campaign, but his involvement ends there, so he doesn't have influence in potential multiclassing, transformations, or even second characters during the campaign.[9] - When asked who he'd pick if he could switch to any player character in Campaign One, Liam chose Scanlan Shorthalt.[10] - Liam has been praised more than once for being part (as his characters) of some of the most popular ships of Critical Role. However, when asked about how he perceived fan reactions about couple involving his characters, he explained he tried to focus only on the table and his own way of playing the character, to avoid getting influenced by external opinions that would alter his approach to a relationship in a campaign.[11] - After they played together as Orym and Opal, Liam and Aimee Carrero developed a private joke between themselves: since at one point the warlock pretended the Ashari fighter was her child Nancy,[12] now both actors keep up the gig when speaking on social media, with Aimee acting like a mother and Liam responding accordingly. - Critical Role is Liam's first "pure" game of Dungeons & Dragons. Before this, he was a Dungeon Master in his sophomore year of high school as well as a player, which, as he states, "is totally cheating."[13] He also ran a Rift game as well as a Cyberpunk game. After Critical Role became such a large part of Liam's life, he began running several D&D games for his children and friends: - He GMs a Ravenloft campaign for his daughter and her friends, and has explained how their adventure started being adapted to be very family friendly (comparing it to The Nightmare Before Christmas), and as the players themselves grew up the tone became more serious and mature.[14] - He is also running a Curse of Strahd campaign in which several Exandrians (including Dani Carr's character, an Ashari sorcerer associated with the Clasp) end up in Barovia.[15] - Liam's chosen drink on his Between the Sheets interview was mulled wine. - Liam currently holds second place for attendance out of the main cast members for the main campaigns, just two episode appearances behind Marisha Ray. However, if one-shots are counted, he takes first place. - Liam was the one who contacted Kit Buss to create the first illustrations of Vox Machina, since he knew her from before.[16] - Liam's involvement in choosing fan art for the slideshows and official art books has earned him the title of "Art Dad" from the community. - Every Halloween, the cast of Critical Role dresses up in costume for one episode. Liam has dressed up as the Dread Pirate Roberts (2015), Tyriok Gadsworth (2016), the Sole Survivor from Fallout 4 (2017), Kylo Ren (2018), Gaara (2019), Astrid Becke (2020), Ashley Johnson (2021), Cyclops (2022), and Frodo (2023). - When asked which one of his Critical Role characters is his favorite, Liam said he was tempted to say Caleb Widogast because of the diversity of things he could do with magic and he loved it. However, Vax'ildan was really his heart, not only because he felt like an alter ego of Liam's, but also because everything started with the Vox Machina characters.[17] - In December 2012, Liam recorded audiobooks as the narrator for the Lost Legends books, a Dragonlance book series, with Sam as his Voice Director. This happened a little bit around their first home-game, making Liam's month "D&D 100% of the time".[18] - Liam and Sam are best friends and have known each other for years. Moreover, given their closeness and some "bromance" jokes, both fans and cast members occasionally refer to them as "work husbands", a joke even Quyen Tran (Sam's actual wife) has been a part of.[19][20] - On Talks Machina, the host Brian Wayne Foster likes to "#ThankMyGuests" with names that are either mispronounced or wordplay that sounds close to their names. Here are the names for Liam O'Brien so far: | | | | External links[] - Critical Role's Liam O'Brien talks his love of Dungeons & Dragons (September 10, 2015) - Critical Role's Liam O'Brien: Where you've heard him before (January 27, 2016) - Liam's Reddit AMA (September 6, 2016) - Between the Sheets: Liam O'Brien (October 10, 2018) - IMDb profile References[] - ↑ (@VoiceOfOBrien) on Twitter: "What's sexier than wizards NOTHING" (2019-09-05). - ↑ From an excerpt of episode 2 of the podcast allworknoplay at 0:42:16. - ↑ See Liam's interview at Nerdist.com ("Laura and I met up at a diner and spent several hours talking everything out, going over every little detail of their past.") See also Laura's interview at Nerdist.com ("Liam and I developed it together over coffee. I think it was a two hour meet up"). - ↑ Liam O'Brien (@VoiceOfOBrien) on Twitter: "The idea was a Halfling Druid/Monk from the Air Ashari, sent by Keyleth’s father, to be of aid to her in her grief. He himself was going to be a widower(?) to another Ashari fella named Riegel. That was the back up plan." (2017-11-17). - ↑ See Liam's tweet saying goodbye to Sprigg. - ↑ See "K'Varn Revealed" (1x10) at 4:06:25. (Q&A session) - ↑ See this short. - ↑ See "Critical Role Cast Answers The Web's Most Searched Questions" at 0:11:11. - ↑ See "Critical Role's Liam O'Brien On Orym & Dorian Romance, Beef With Laudna, And Bells Hells LIVE!" at 0:25:25. - ↑ See "Attack on the Duergar Warcamp" (1x04) at 3:56:32. - ↑ See "Critical Role's Liam O'Brien On Orym & Dorian Romance, Beef With Laudna, And Bells Hells LIVE!" at 0:16:04. - ↑ See "A Glorious Return" (E1x03) at 0:33:55. - ↑ See "Attack on the Duergar Warcamp" (1x04) at 3:13:25. - ↑ See "Critical Role FULL PANEL" (Florida Supercon 2024) at 0:37:31. - ↑ See Fireside Chat LIVE with Liam O'Brien at 0:38:59 on Beacon (Subscription required). - ↑ See "How Campaign 4 Changed Everything for Critical Role" at 33:48. - ↑ See Critical Role Panel at Florida Supercon 2024 at 43:35. - ↑ See episode 3 of the podcast allworknoplay at 04:38 through 06:44, and then at 43:42 through 44:16. - ↑ See Quyen's comment in Liam's post. - ↑ See Aabria's comment about Sam and Liam. Art: - ↑ Liam O'Brien promotional photo for Campaign Four, by Michael Schmidt (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Fan art of Liam's characters, by Aviv Or (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Official portrait by GalacticJonah - ↑ Official portrait by Hannah Friederichs - ↑ Official portrait by Hannah Friederichs - ↑ Official portrait by GalacticJonah - ↑ Official portrait by Loren Hontanilla - ↑ Official portrait by Kendra Wells - ↑ Official portrait by Kendra Wells - ↑ Official portrait by Joana Carvalho - ↑ Official portrait by Hugo Cardenas - ↑ Official portrait by Joana Carvalho - ↑ Official portrait by Kit Buss - ↑ Official portrait by Tori - ↑ Official portrait by Kit Buss - ↑ Official portrait by Aviv Or - ↑ Official portrait by Hannah Friederichs - ↑ Official portrait by @tshortik - ↑ Official portrait by Kent Davis - ↑ Official portrait by Shaun Ellis - ↑ Official portrait by Hannah Friederichs - ↑ Casey, Dan. GAME OF THRONES' John Bradley Plays D&D with Nerdist and Critical Role on Nerdist.com Published August 3, 2017. Retrieved January 19, 2020. - ↑ Photograph of Liam O'Brien, by Heirlume Photography (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Fan art of Shakespearean Liam, by OriginalEmmArt. Work contributed to the Critical Role Wiki by the artist.


--- [Liam OBrien (visual voices guide) - Behind The Voice Actors] ---
No content


--- [Liam O'Brien - Critical Role] ---
Liam O'Brien | Liam O'Brien | | |---|---| | Full name | Liam Christopher O'Brien | | Pronouns | he/him | Critical Role Productions work | | | Biographical information | | | Born | May 28, 1976 (age 49) Weehawken, New Jersey | | Nationality | American | | Profession | | | Internet presence | | | voiceofobrien | | | @VoiceOfOBrien | What's sexier than wizards NOTHING — Liam O'Brien on Twitter[1] Liam O'Brien is a voice actor, voice director, and a member of the main cast of Critical Role. He plays Halandil Fang in Campaign 4. In previous campaigns, he played Vax'ildan, Caleb Widogast and Orym. He has also been the Dungeon Master for several one-shot episodes. Critical Role Productions [edit | edit source]Pre-Stream [edit | edit source]Before Critical Role began, Liam and his close friend Sam created a podcast called All Work No Play, with the intention to get more fun into their busy schedules. For Liam's birthday they planned to play Dungeons & Dragons with some friends and shared their experience on the podcast. Towards the end of All Work No Play's, second episode the two of them talked about getting ready for the upcoming "one-time" D&D game. Liam asked Matthew Mercer to run the game, because Matthew kept telling him about the D&D game he was running and often invited Liam to join. Liam deeply enjoyed playing the game and soon after messaged the other players inviting them to start a continuous game. Liam and Laura Bailey decided to play twins starting from the first session of Campaign 1, because they share their birthday, May 28th.[2] Before their second game and, again, preparing for the first streamed session, they fleshed out their twin dynamic and went over "every little detail of their past". After the second meeting, Liam organized all of their notes into one document and sent to Matt.[3] Before they started streaming, Liam recorded snippets of their gameplay. One can be heard in the second episode of All Work No Play and another one is available on his yotube channel. Critical Role [edit | edit source]While playing as Vax'ildan in Campaign 1, Liam came up with a backup character, a "halfling druid/monk from the Air Ashari, sent by Keyleth's father, to be of aid to her in her grief".[4] This initial character idea eventually morphed into Orym, his player character in Exandria Unlimited and Campaign 3. Liam took part in the D&D Beyond Presidential Campaign, a recurring sponsorship segment created by Sam Riegel. At least until the last episode of the second campaign, Liam was involved in choosing fan art for the slideshows and official art books, which has earned him the title of "Art Dad" from the community. Player characters [edit | edit source]Main campaigns [edit | edit source]- Vax'ildan, half-elf rogue/paladin/druid (Campaign 1: Vox Machina) - Caleb Widogast, human wizard (Campaign 2: The Mighty Nein) - Orym, halfling fighter (Exandria Unlimited and Campaign 3: Bells Hells) - Halandil Fang, orc bard (Campaign 4) One-shots and miniseries [edit | edit source]- Cort, human barbarian ("Critical Trolls for Extra Life" (OSx01)) - Reverend Forrest Alton, human ("Deadlands One-Shot for MDA Charity" (OSx06)) - Jayne Merriweather, human cleric ("Bar Room Blitz" (OSx13)) - Liam O'Brien (vampire), vampire ("Thursday By Night – Part 1" (OSx16) and "Part 2" (OSx17)) - Cookie, a bear ("Trinket's Honey Heist" (OSx19)) - Quazirat Tolluz, draenei warrior ("Kobolds, Catacombs and Dragons (Oh My!)" (OSx21)) - Ringo, raccoon ("Crash Pandas: Too Trashed, Too Curious" (OSx25)) - Ally, human druid ("Critical Role and the Club of Misfits" (OSx26)) - Lieve'tel Toluse, elf cleric ("The Search For Grog" (OSx29), "The Search For Bob" (OSx32)) - Tomeytine, honesty earth pony ("Tails of Equestria One-Shot" (OSx31)) - Septimus Goodfellow, celebrity spiritualist ("Call of Cthulhu: Shadow of the Crystal Palace" (OSx33)) - Derrig, half elf fighter ("Dalen's Closet" (OSx34)) - Buddy, ogre fighter ("The Adventures of the Darrington Brigade" (OSx36)) - Mordred, the Gaunt, crusader ("Diablo One-Shot" (OSx39)) - Orym, halfling fighter (Exandria Unlimited) - Forrest Coreman, chief of engineering ("The Nautilus Ark: A Johnson Corp Odyssey" (OSx43)) - Lucas Dankworth ("Generation Nord" (OSx50)) - Yolo, zora soldier "The Legend of Zelda One-Shot: Lookout, Here We Come!" (OSx53) - Cosmo Grimm (Candela Obscura: Chapter 3) - Walden Orlok (Moonward) - Xarlo Grandall ("Critical Role plays Daggerheart" (OSx58), "The Menagerie Returns!" (OSx59), "Ménagerie a Trois" (OSx61)) - Trystan Beasley ("Critical Role Presents: A Daggerheart Critmas Story" (OSx62)) - Garrett O'Neil ("Assassin's Creed Shadows One-Shot" (OSx63)) Games played as Game Master [edit | edit source]Liam said of his GM style: "I like horror and creeping my players out if I can, and most of his stories focus on family ties—whether blood family or found family".[5] - "Liam's Quest" (OSx07) - "The Return of Liam" (OSx08) - "Liam's Quest: Full Circle" (OSx10) - "Liam's One-Shot: The Song of the Lorelei" (OSx24) - "The Night Before Critmas" (OSx28) - "The Elder Scrolls Online: Blackwood - Part III: The Golden Goose" (OSx44) - "Persona 5 Tactica One-Shot" (OSx56) - Candela Obscura: Chapter 4 - "The Elder Scrolls Online One-Shot" (OSx68) Other works [edit | edit source]Liam began his career in theater before moving on to voice acting in the early 2000s. He also branched out to voice directing, and has worked on several productions, like The Last of Us and Resident Evil 6. A lot of his work revolves around japanese anime dubbing, be it as a voice actor, voice director, or automated dialog replacement writer. One of his most well-known speaking roles is the character Gaara from Naruto. Liam O'Brien has a remarkable robot voice. Personal life [edit | edit source]Liam is married to fellow voice actress Amy Kincaid. They have two children together, and previously had a dog, Sprigg, who was named after the guest character of the same name. Their son, Owen O'Brien, was born around 2006 and daughter, Zoe O'Brien, was born around 2009.[6][7] Zoe played an episodic role of an unnamed girl in The Legend of Vox Machina: Season 2. Liam was first introduced to tabletop roleplaying games in the 7th grade while attending the Catholic school. His classmate showed them Dungeons & Dragons Basic Set (1983 revision), packed into a distinctive red box, and briefly lend it to Liam. Liam read it thoroughly over one weekend, inspired to start a collection assembling more D&D books. However, he wasn't comfortable enough to invite his fellow students to play the game. When he switched to a larger high school, Liam met people with similar interests and held a D&D session with three friends, where Liam served as the Dungeon Master while also playing a player character, a fighter.[8][9] Following his graduation, he stopped playing D&D for a while. At some point before 2012, when Liam was voice directing Matthew Mercer for a video game project, Matt approached Liam to play in the D&D game he was running at the time, but Liam had a new baby and didn't join the game.[3] In addition to playing D&D, Liam read sourcebooks and created characters for Rifts, played a one session of Shadowrun, and was part of Cyberpunk party for one summer, the game ran by his cousin from upstate New York.[10] In 2016 Liam started running several D&D games for his children.[11][7] Liam has stated that D&D has helped him get through a rough patch in his life after he developed hyperacusis.[12] As of September 2023, Liam had two tattoos. In 2017, each Critical Role cast member, including Liam, got a tattoo of two overlapping letters "V" and "M", representing Vox Machina.[13] Liam also has a tattoo of a little raven on his right forearm.[14] Trivia [edit | edit source]- He shares his middle name, Christopher, with Matt Mercer. - Liam has close German ancestors.[15] - As of June 2025, with Age of Umbra, Liam ties Laura for the most player characters on the channel with 28. He additionally played a non-DM non-player character Cinna Brightbow. - His most played class is Fighter, with four characters. - More of Liam O'Brien's player characters have died than any other cast member on Critical Role. - Seven of the characters Liam has played across one-shots and the main campaigns have died. Six of them were beyond resurrection or within a game without resurrection rules at their final death. - When asked who he'd pick if he could switch to any player character in Campaign 1, Liam chose Scanlan.[16] - Liam's chosen drink on his Between the Sheets interview was mulled wine. - As of early 2023, Liam, out of the main cast members, shared his record for attendance with Marisha Ray for the main campaigns with 312 episodes. However, if one-shots are included, he takes first place. - On Talks Machina, the host Brian Wayne Foster liked to "#ThankMyGuests" with names that are either mispronounced or wordplay that sounded close to their names. Here are the names for Liam O'Brien: | | | | See also [edit | edit source]External links [edit | edit source]- Critical Role's Liam O'Brien talks his love of Dungeons & Dragons (September 10, 2015) - Critical Role's Liam O'Brien: Where you've heard him before (January 27, 2016) - Liam's Reddit AMA (September 6, 2016) - Between the Sheets: Liam O'Brien (October 10, 2018) - IMDb profile References [edit | edit source]- ↑ (@VoiceOfOBrien) on Twitter: "What's sexier than wizards NOTHING" (September 5, 2019). - ↑ From an excerpt of episode 2 of the podcast allworknoplay at 42:16. - ↑ 3.03.1 Critical Role's Liam O'Brien Talks His love of Dungeons & Dragons (September 10, 2015). - ↑ Liam O'Brien (@VoiceOfOBrien) on Twitter: "The idea was a Halfling Druid/Monk from the Air Ashari, sent by Keyleth's father, to be of aid to her in her grief. He himself was going to be a widower(?) to another Ashari fella named Riegel. That was the back up plan." (November 17, 2017). - ↑ The World of Critical Role, p. 602. - ↑ In a AMA on Reddit, posted in (September 2016), Liam said that his son is 10 yearst old and his daughter is 7 years old. - ↑ 7.07.1 Liam O'Brien and Laura Bailey on "Dragon Talk" podcast at 31:45. - ↑ "Attack on the Duergar Warcamp" (1x04) at 3:13:25. - ↑ Liam O'Brien AMA on Reddit (September 2016). - ↑ Liam O'brien's first time on Periscope - Q&A at 15:39. - ↑ Liam O'Brien AMA on Reddit (September 2016). - ↑ "K'Varn Revealed" (1x10) at 4:06:25. (Q&A session) - ↑ 'Critical Role' Cast Answers the Web's Most Searched Questions on Wired at 12:55. - ↑ "4-Sided Dive: Night of the Living Bits" (4SDx17) at 30:50. - ↑ "Talks Machina #36: Free-For-All" (TMx36) at 1:02:40. - ↑ "Attack on the Duergar Warcamp" (1x04) at 3:56:32. Art: - ↑ Photograph of Liam O'Brien for Variety, by Robyn Von Swank (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law. - ↑ Casey, Dan. GAME OF THRONES' John Bradley Plays D&D with Nerdist and Critical Role on Nerdist.com Published August 3, 2017. Retrieved January 19, 2020. - ↑ Photograph of Liam O'Brien, by Heirlume Photography (source). This file is a copyrighted work. Its use in this article is asserted to qualify as fair use of the material under United States copyright law.


--- [Dalen's Closet | Critical Role Wiki | Fandom] ---
"Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) is the forty-seventh special episode of Critical Role. Vox Machina returns in this special one-shot, canonically taking place approximately one year after Campaign 1 and the events of "The Search For Bob" (Sx45). Vox Machina return to the beaches of Dalen's Closet for the official wedding of Vex'ahlia and Percival, but no wedding ever goes off without a hitch... Synopsis[] Pre-Show[] This adventure is one of the stretch goals for The Legend of Vox Machina Kickstarter campaign. Previously on Critical Role[] So, last we left off, Vox Machina, heroes of Emon and Exandria at large, had managed to seal Vecna, the newly ascended god, beyond the Divine Gate, with losses of friends and loved ones, but protected the lives of many, many more and generations to come. They then lost their friend Grog, his soul jettisoned to the land of Pandemonium. Following suit, they chased down the location of his spirit, freed him from his prison, and then fought their way back seeking the githzerai entity known as "Bob", as so given by the team here. You managed to find yourself back to Exandria, whole, together, and that was that. History carried on. Yet here we are about a year later, in this time. Many of you have found new epilogues to yourselves, begun to build a life outside of the adventurers'-type existence. That involves bringing Whitestone to the beginning of its new heights. That involves reconnecting with one's daughter. That involves gathering the people under the banner of their new proven leader. That involves kindling a relationship long pursued and teased. That involves finding new ways to get drunk and beat the face of those that dare step on and call you a name. And that involves, actually, the birth of a new child... Part I[] Percival and Vex'ahlia reveal that in the past year, they had a child, Vesper Elaina de Rolo. Alongside Percy's sister Cassandra, they are the new leadership in Whitestone. They have planned a destination wedding at Dalen's Closet to which they've invited at least 150 people, but are hoping almost none of them will actually show up. In the days before the wedding, the closest of their friends have gathered at Whitestone. Keyleth has brought a plus-one, Derrig, the Master of Defense in Zephrah, acting at the Zephrah Council's insistence as her bodyguard, although she and he both recognize she doesn't need one. The party, including Taryon with Doty 5.0, gather at the Sun Tree and Keyleth transports them to Dalen's Closet at mid-day, where the wedding location has been prepared for the rehearsal dinner that night. Taryon is going to act as Vex'ahlia's Man of Honor, and Keyleth is surprised to learn she will be Percy's Best Person and is expected to have a speech ready for that night. She nervously checks on the wedding arrangements and then goes to write her speech. Vex asks Scanlan to walk her down the aisle, and he agrees. Grog is recruited to act as the flower girl, and Pike will officiate. Pike and Scanlan are in separate rooms, as Scanlan is rooming with Kaylie. In a conversation, Derrig congratulates Percy and Vex on their child and reveals he has four of his own, triplet daughters and a son. He also met Vax'ildan while he lived in Zephrah and tells Vex that Vax was a good man and would wish to be there. On the way to the Perfect Pearl for a drink, Vex and Percy meet Allura and Kima. Evening arrives and the group assembles for the rehearsal dinner, including guests Shaun Gilmore, Jarett Howarth, and Syldor, Devana and Velora Vessar. Percy and Vex receive several gifts that have arrived, including mythril silverware from Nostoc Greyspine[1] and several cases of red and white wine from Kamordah in Wildemount from Realmseer Eskil Ryndarien.[2] They open the wine to drink with dinner. Keyleth[3] and Tary[4] give their speeches. As the dinners are brought out, the guests and the members of the wedding party (except Grog, Derrig, and Trinket) begin to doze off and then fall unconscious, stable at zero hit points. Heavy fog rolls in from the ocean, engulfing the beachside, shadows moving quickly within it. Break[] - Pre-orders are now available in the Critrole.com shop for Vex'ahlia's and Percival's wedding rings. - The slightly redesigned Vox Machina d20 sets are now available in both the US and UK stores. - Taliesin's Twilight Zone Advertisement for Twitch subscriptions. - A collection of every time a critter burned Brian on Travis Willingham's Yee-Haw Game Ranch. - Critters' Wedding Art Montage. Part II[] Derrig the brave is married to his wife. He's always tired from his four tykes. He has tattooes and he owns a sword. That's all I know and nothing more. The boring ballad, the boring ballad, the boring ballad of Derrig. He calls our friend "The Tempest" or "Chief". His sword goes into a back sheath. He can make three attacks and never four. That's all I know of him, nothing more. The boring ballad, the boring ballad, the boring ballad of Derrig. The shapes are humanoids wrapped in black and grey clothing with obscured faces, burning red eyes, claws, fangs, and inhuman speed. Derrig, Grog, and Trinket attack. The dark figures attack with claws and neck bite attacks that do necrotic damage reducing maximum hit points and, when seriously wounded, they turn to mist and disappear. Derrig succeeds in waking Keyleth, bringing her to one hit point. Trinket rushes to guard Vex and discovers that both she and Percy are no longer there. Keyleth casts Greater Restoration and Healing Word on Pike, getting her up, and Pike casts Mass Healing Word, waking Scanlan, Kima, and Allura. Enraged by the missing Vex, Trinket gets two crits in a row, killing one of the vampires, and the last of them are quickly then dispatched. Inspired by Scanlan's ballad to him, Derrig notices footprints heading off down the beach and the party follows them towards a beachside cliff. Meantime, Vex and Percy come to consciousness, hearing waves crashing, with hands bound behind them and shackled to their ankles. Two figures lift them both onto their knees and they see they are about five feet from the edge of the cliff dropping a few hundred feet into the ocean below. A shadowed, cloaked figure approaches, beard coming to a manicured point, long hair slicked back, with pale skin and very intense eyes. It is Lord Sylas Briarwood. He confronts them, telling them that they have both killed his beloved Delilah[6][7] and this is his judgment upon them, the first of many vengeances to be brought down upon their loved ones. With that, he drags them to the cliff edge, and despite Vex'ahlia headbutting him in desperation, throws them both from the cliff and into the ocean, where the heavy manacles drag them down deeper and deeper. Vex has one minute of air; Percy has three. She tries and fails to cast Conjure Woodland Beings; Percy tries and fails to swim both of them toward the cliff despite the manacles. Vex pulls a pin from Percy's jacket and attempts and fails to pick the lock of her shackles. Abandoning his attempt to pull Vex with him, Percy reaches the side of the cliff and is no longer sinking as his Boots of Spider Climbing latch on. He watches as Vex runs out of air and begins to drown. With no other choice, Percy climbs up the cliff to the surface and screams. The rest of the party hear and recognize his cries, and run toward the cliff, with Grog going to the clifftop and the remaining four heading into the water. Keyleth becomes a water elemental and Scanlan a dolphin, but Vex'ahlia runs out of air and drowns just before Keyleth reaches her. Keyleth pulls her back toward Pike, moving both Pike and the dead Vex onto the beach, where Pike uses Vex's earrings to cast Revivify. Matt rolled a 13 for the DC, and because Vex had died three times previously, the Revivify just succeeded. Scanlan reaches Percy and casts Polymorph on him, turning him into a raven just long enough for Percy to fly up the cliffside to its top. Grog reaches the top of the cliff and sees Sylas and four other figures looking over the edge. They surround and attack him while the rest of Vox Machina rush to join him. Vex and Pike begin running toward the clifftop while Scanlan Dimension Doors there and Keyleth becomes an earth elemental to move up through the cliff, followed by Derrig climbing. Once the bulk of the party reaches the top, Sylas sees which way the wind is blowing and begins moving away. The party quickly dispatches the lesser vampires, as Sylas continues to run to try to escape the light from Vex's Blessing of the Dawnfather, turning into a bat. Grog throws his Blood Axe and hits him, forcing him out of bat form, and he falls at the feet of Keyleth and Scanlan. Pike casts Spiritual Weapon to create a bow for Vex, and Vex gets the How Do You Want to Do This with it on Sylas. Radiating sunlight (as champion of the Dawnfather) eradicates his mist form, destroying Sylas permanently. The rest of the wedding party now reaches the cliff, drawn by the beacons of light emanating from it, including Allura, Kima, Gilmore, Tary, and Doty, ready to join the fray. Scanlan suggests that if they wait another day, there could be another attack, and since everyone's there, maybe they should have the ceremony there and then, and they agree. Keyleth makes a bouquet of snowdrops for Vex and Grog begins throwing smashed pebbles in lieu of the snowdrops he was to have carried. Scanlan turns into a triceratops and rides Vex'ahlia down the aisle, and Pike officiates the wedding. Percy and Vex'halia exchange heartfelt vows, exchange rings, and just as Pike is about to pronounce them husband and wife, Scanlan breaks in to ask if he can offer one more word. He tells Percy and Vex that he wants to gift them a wish: that Vex's brother would be able to speak to her for just a moment or two on her wedding day. He casts Wish, saying, "I wish that Vax'ildan can say a few words at his sister's wedding." Off the cliffside, they see a dark silhouette towering: the Raven Queen. From under her cloak, they see the familiar black leather armor, feathered mantle, and black hair of Vax'ildan as he steps once more on the mortal plane. Over his face is a black leather raven mask, which he removes. He speaks slowly, showing little emotion, and hesitates when Vex hugs him before hugging back. He tells her he is safe and always with them, and his love will never dim. Vex urges him to Keyleth, and he bows, saying, "Hail to the Tempest," before Vex tells him not to be weird and go hug her. They each say they will never get over the other, and Vax tells her that although he is far, he is not gone. His final words to the party: "Thank you. Live!" before he disappears in a scattering of feathers. Percy and Vex tell Scanlan that was a remarkable present, and he says it was his last Wish, but it was worth it. Pike then pronounces them husband and wife. Keyleth druidcrafts one thousand fireflies exploding outward, and Scanlan shoots a bunch of lightning bolts out of his dick. The celebration begins and Scanlan catches the bouquet resulting in Grog tackling him in an attempt to grab it. Featured Characters[] Vox Machina[] - Keyleth - Percival de Rolo - Scanlan Shorthalt - Grog Strongjaw - Pike Trickfoot - Vex'ahlia - Trinket - Taryon Darrington - Doty 5.0 - Vax'ildan New[] Returning[] Mentioned[] - Delilah Briarwood - Vesper Elaina de Rolo - Jarett Howarth - Cassandra de Rolo - Syldor Vessar - Devana Vessar - Velora Vessar - J'mon Sa Ord - Nel - Baernie, Leeta, Maeve and Will (unnamed) Inventory[] | Adjustment | Count | Item | Source | Destination | Notes | |---|---|---|---|---|---| Quotations[] - Sylas Briarwood: Long have I waited, learning, reading, listening, suffering. By the grace of ancient shadows stirred by a love unending, my soul was scattered beyond life and brought back twice now, home to be with my beloved Delilah. Twice she sacrificed everything for me. Everything. And twice you have torn her away from me, left without hope, agony unending for this eternal life-- unlife. I am cursed now without my partner. The paltry affections you both hold for each other are nothing by comparison to what we had, though amusing it is to see you go through the motions. You do not-- cannot-- understand what true, timeless love is. You could never discover the joy that you've robbed of us. For this timeless torture you've banished my soul to, I bring judgment to you both, the first of many vengeances to be brought down upon your loved ones. - Percy: (to Sylas) I used to fear you. Know that when I die, you will bore me. - Vex'ahlia: Oh my god, what if I die?! Scanlan: I think we get all of our gifts back. - Pike: (officiating the wedding) These two here are my family, a family we have all chosen: Lady Vex'ahlia, my sister, and Lord Percival Fredrickstein von Musel Klossowski De Rolo III, my brother. My life is richer for having known you. - Percival: When I met you, I was at the lowest place I had ever been. I was barely human, I had lost anything that mattered, and I had sunk into a deep over-romantic shadow. Then this new family came along, and you came along. And slowly, through time and experience, I learned from you that you can have a romanticized notion of the darkness within yourself, but that darkness must be cast by some light, and there's no sense not romanticizing that as well. and that I could find myself in that again. Every time I thought I would sink, I would see your face -- your face, the first time I truly lost control, and you told me to take off the mask. You have given me a future I had cheaply sold away. You have given me a family I thought forever lost, and a future I was prepared to sacrifice for something so trivial, I just literally just watched you take it, and it means nothing compared to this. I promise to walk into the future with you. I promise to build a family with you. And I promise to always be here for an adventure with you. - Vex'ahlia: I don't know when it happened, when I fell. I sat down to try to write vows and pinpoint the moment, but... Was it when I first met you, dressed in rags, starved? Was it when I saw you overcome that darkness inside, standing tall and proud and unbroken? I thought for sure it was when you stood next to me and helped me face fears I hadn't spoken aloud and support me in a way that no one other than-- other than my brother had ever done. But honestly, even by that point, I'd fallen. I think it happened through all the little moments that I didn't even notice: you sleeping on my shoulder in the Feywild, or when I saw you bent over laughing so hard you spit chicken out of your mouth because Scanlan had an arrow in his neck. I think I never expected anyone to mean as much to me as-- as Vax'ildan, to be as important to me, to feel like the other half. There was a hole in my heart, and I truly believe the only reason I didn't perish from it was because you were holding my heart so tightly. I thank the gods I gave it to you. It is yours, forever and always. I love you, dear. And I'm so glad we're together. - Pike: Vex, do you promise to take this man, and cherish him and love him in every way? Vex: I do. Pike: Percy, do you promise to take this woman, and cherish her and love her in every way? Percy: I do. Pike: Do you also promise to love and cherish Trinket for all of his days? Percy: I'm aware that's part of the bargain. - Vax'ildan: Scanlan Shorthalt, you are toying with the designs of the gods still, I see, old friend. - Vax'ildan: (to Vex) Don't worry about me. I am safe, and taken care of. I am always with you. You will live. As long as all of your hearts are beating, I will live within them. And my love will never dim. - Keyleth: (to Vax) How am I supposed to get over you if you keep sending ravens to me? Vax'ildan: I am imperfect, as are the gods. Keyleth: That was my poor attempt at humor. I'll never get over you. Vax'ildan: Nor I. But you will live, and your life will touch thousands. - Vax'ildan: (to Keyleth) I am far, but not gone. Keyleth: We know. Vax'ildan: Forgive me. Keyleth: There's nothing to forgive. Nothing. We get to go on, because of you. It's not taken lightly. - Vax'ildan: (to Vox Machina) Thank you. Live! Trivia[] - This episode was unlocked for reaching the $2 million stretch goal in the Kickstarter campaign to crowdfund The Legend of Vox Machina. - This is the eighth episode in which one player plays multiple characters, following "A Bard's Lament" (1x85), "Masquerade" (1x99), "Unfinished Business" (1x100), "Thar Amphala" (1x101) and "Race to the Tower" (1x102) (Scanlan Shorthalt/Taryon Darrington) in the first campaign; "The Search For Grog" (Sx42) and "The Search For Bob" (Sx45) (Grog Strongjaw/Bertrand Bell), with Sam Riegel once again playing Scanlan and Taryon as well as Liam O'Brien playing Derrig and Vax'ildan. - Several former guest players sent in-character congratulations to Percy and Vex via twitter, including Kit Buss (as Lillith Daturai),[8] Felicia Day (as Lyra),[9] Darin De Paul (as Sprigg),[10] Mary E. McGlynn (as Zahra Hydris),[11] Jason Charles Miller (as Garthok),[12] Chris Perkins (as Shale),[13] and ND Stevenson (as Tova). [14] References[] - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 0:49:15. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 0:49:40. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 1:01:00. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 1:03:20. - ↑ See "Dalen's Closet" (Sx47) at 1:53:47. - ↑ See "Race to the Tower" (1x102) at 3:35:54. Percy kills Delilah. - ↑ See "The Final Ascent" (1x113) at 2:35:58. Vex'ahlia kills Delilah. - ↑ https://twitter.com/AnemoneTea/status/1167382410100641792 - ↑ https://twitter.com/feliciaday/status/1167230491629506560 - ↑ https://twitter.com/DarinDePaul/status/1167222785392857089 - ↑ https://twitter.com/MaryEMcGlynn/status/1167216247076868096 - ↑ https://twitter.com/jasoncmiller/status/1167225785461223426 - ↑ https://twitter.com/ChrisPerkinsDnD/status/1167222979962388480 - ↑ https://twitter.com/Gingerhazing/status/1167223414551019521 Art: - ↑ Fan art of Grog the Flower Goliath, by oliviahintz (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of Vex'ahlia sinking, by Minoukatze1 (source). Used with permission. - ↑ Fan art of The Wish, by Minoukatze1 (source). Used with permission.
