=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Harry Belafonte - Wikipedia]
Belafonte also had a younger brother named Dennis. His mother was the child of a Scottish Jamaican mother and an Afro-Jamaican father, and his father was the child of an Afro-Jamaican mother and a Dutch-Jewish father of Sephardic Jewish descent. Belafonte was raised Catholic and attended parochial school at St. Charles Borromeo. [12]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Belafonte

[Tribute to Harry Belafonte]
The warm, distinct melodies of the singers throughout the city that resonated with him would later account for his launch into the genre. Belafonte moved back to Harlem at 13 years old. In 1944, as a student at George Washington High School in the ...
URL: https://www.naacpldf.org/tribute-to-harry-belafonte/

[‘Jamaica Farewell': Harry Belafonte passes away and the Caribbean tries to find adequate words of tribute]
Born in Harlem on March 1, 1927, Harry Belafonte’s parents were both of Caribbean heritage: his father, a chef, was from Martinique, and his mother, a housekeeper, from Jamaica. He spent eight years of his childhood with his mother’s family in rural St. Ann, Jamaica, attending Wolmer’s School in Kingston...
URL: https://globalvoices.org/2023/04/26/jamaica-farewell-harry-belafonte-passes-away-and-the-caribbean-tries-to-find-adequate-words-of-tribute/

[Farewell Harry – UWI Museum]
He did not just “leave a little girl in Kingston town,” but rather, he left behind many faces with smiles turned upside down. Harry Belafonte greets UWI Mona Campus PRO, Carroll Edwards
URL: https://uwimuseum.wordpress.com/2023/04/28/farewell-harry/

[Harry Belafonte, legendary singer, actor and civil rights activist, has died]
t the age of 9, he was sent back to Jamaica, still under British rule, with his brother Dennis. Their daily life was divided between a boarding school in Kingston and their grandmother's wooden house on stilts in Aboukir, a mountain village.
URL: https://www.lemonde.fr/en/obituaries/article/2023/04/25/harry-belafonte-african-american-icon-has-died-aged-96_6024299_15.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Harry Belafonte - Wikipedia] ---
Harry Belafonte  ( BEL-ə-FON-tee; born Harold George Bellanfanti Jr.; March 1, 1927 – April 25, 2023) was an American singer, actor, and civil rights activist who popularized calypso music with international audiences in the 1950s and 1960s. Belafonte's career breakthrough album Calypso (1956) was the first million-selling LP by a single artist.
Belafonte was best known for his recordings of "Day-O (The Banana Boat Song)", "Jump in the Line (Shake, Senora)", "Jamaica Farewell", and "Mary's Boy Child". He recorded and performed in many genres, including blues, folk, gospel, show tunes, and American standards. He also starred in films such as Carmen Jones (1954), Island in the Sun (1957), Odds Against Tomorrow (1959), Buck and the Preacher (1972), and Uptown Saturday Night (1974). He made his final feature film appearance in Spike Lee's BlacKkKlansman (2018).
Harry Belafonte considered the actor, singer, and activist Paul Robeson to be a mentor. Belafonte was also a close confidant of Martin Luther King Jr. during the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s and acted as the American Civil Liberties Union celebrity ambassador for juvenile justice issues. He was also a vocal critic of the policies of the George W. Bush and first Donald Trump administrations.
Belafonte won three Grammy Awards, including a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Tony Award. In 1989, he received the Kennedy Center Honors. He was awarded the National Medal of Arts in 1994. In 2014, he received the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award at the academy's 6th Annual Governors Awards and in 2022 was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in the Early Influence category. He is one of the few performers to have received an Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, and Tony (EGOT), although he won the Oscar in a non-competitive category.




--- [Tribute to Harry Belafonte] ---
Harry Belafonte was a renowned social activist, artist, and actor whose exemplary work as a humanitarian and civil rights activist made an indelible mark on the world. Belafonte died at his home in Manhattan, New York on April 25, 2023. He was 96 years old. “We mourn the death of the civil and human rights icon and renowned artist, Harry Belafonte, and extend our deepest condolences to his loved ones … Mr. Belafonte utilized his trans-continental experience and the severe discrimination he faced as a child to fuel a passion for inspiring change around the world — most notably through working to advance racial equality in the United States and protect human rights around the globe,” said LDF President and Director-Counsel Janai S. Nelson in a statement following Mr. Belafonte’s passing. “For Mr. Belafonte, who emphasized that he ‘was an activist that became an artist, not an artist that became an activist,’ the inspiration for his work came with ease. The magnitude of his life, and this loss, cannot be overstated. Mr. Belafonte demonstrated how, without fear and compromise, people can use their platforms for good. He will be missed, and his ineffaceable legacy will leave a resounding impact on the minds, hearts, and lives of generations to come.” Known as Harry Belafonte, Harry Bellanfanti Jr. was born on March 1, 1927, in Harlem, New York to Harold and Melvine Bellanfanti, both West-Indian immigrants. Growing up in a predominantly white neighborhood alongside his brother, Dennis, Belafonte faced severe discrimination and hate. He cited these experiences and his mother’s nurturement and care, as well as her own commitment to challenging injustices, as a source of inspiration for becoming a lifelong activist and champion of human rights. “In my earliest of years, I was counseled on that path by my mother and I went to many Marcus Garvey rallies with her, and I saw her passion about justice and all of that rubbed off on me,” Belafonte recalled during an interview with LDF in 2019. “And here I am.” In 1936, Belafonte and his brother moved to Kingston, Jamaica with their mother. As Belafonte recalled in his 2011 memoir “My Song,” though he struggled to adapt to the new environment, the young Belafonte would become immersed in the capital’s culture and lifestyle. Most saliently, his time in Kingston would spark his interest in calypso music. The warm, distinct melodies of the singers throughout the city that resonated with him would later account for his launch into the genre. Belafonte moved back to Harlem at 13 years old. In 1944, as a student at George Washington High School in the Bronx, Belafonte enlisted in the Navy. He was sent to the Naval Station Great Lakes to join a segregated training camp, where he was struck by the sheer diversity of his all-Black crew, men who hailed from around the nation and who brought with them varying perspectives. Introduced to political pamphlets and the works of W.E.B. DuBois and other Black authors by his crewmates, Belafonte also took part in stimulating conversations about civil rights. These discussions would expand his perspective and reaffirm his passion for fighting for justice. Following Belafonte’s honorable discharge from the service, he returned to New York. Belafonte’s interest in acting was sparked at the American Negro Theater, a segregated theater in Manhattan, where he received two free tickets to a play. Belafonte soon began to gain acting experience, going from being an extra stagehand to landing a role in his first play. Soon after, he enrolled in a drama workshop at the New School for Social Research on 12th Street. There, he began reading and studying literature that complemented his newly-found passion for the arts. In 1949, he landed his first singing contract. Throughout his life, Belafonte tied his passion for music and social activism together. In the 1950s, he participated in the civil rights movement, becoming an integral figure in the cause. With an unwavering commitment to advancing racial justice, Mr. Belafonte became deeply involved with the NAACP. Traveling around the South and the nation, he supported grassroots organizers and activists, providing them with supplies and resources. “The bulk of his work is unheralded,” actor and activist Jesse Williams said during his reflection on Belafonte in LDF’s 2019 video honoring him. “He’s undergirding the civil rights movement as we know it — driving himself down South, him actually dropping off bags, him spending time with Eleanor Roosevelt, to Fannie Lou Hamer, to in prison — wherever he needs to be.” Always vocal, Belafonte found inspiration for his advocacy efforts through figures such as Paul Robeson and W.E.B. DuBois. In forming a friendship with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Belafonte became an instrumental figure in supporting him and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. Belafonte attended numerous protests and rallies, and was present with Dr. King when he delivered his famous “I Have a Dream Speech” in Washington, D.C. Belafonte reflected on his close relationship with Dr. King during the civil rights movement in his 2011 memoir, “My Song,” writing: “Cowardice asks the question, ‘Is it safe?’ Expediency asks the question, ‘Is it popular?’ But conscience asks the question, ‘Is it right?’ As Martin knew, there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither politic nor popular, because conscience tells him he must.” Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, Belafonte also played an instrumental role as a member of LDF’s “Committee of 100”, a cooperative of individuals tasked to support the organization’s operations and development. Within his music, Belafonte sang melodies of justice and freedom. His songs and albums, including “Banana Boat” and “Paradise in Gazankulu,” demonstrated his inclination for intertwining his multicultural ties with meaningful narrative, which resonated with crowds. “In all my music, I rooted it in the conditions of Black history,” Belafonte told LDF in a 2019 interview. “‘Banana Boat’ wasn’t just a song that delighted people. If they dug deeply enough into the lyrics of that song, it’s a song of great power and protest from the Black voice.” Referring to the arts as “the greatest liberator of Black people,” Belafonte often collaborated with and uplifted the work of other Black artists. Notably, Belafonte met South African singer and activist Mariam Makeba in 1958, partnering with Makeba many times, including on the Grammy Award-winning 1965 album, “An Evening with Belafonte/Makeba.” Through Makeba’s experience as an exiled citizen of South Africa, Mr. Belafonte used his music to bring attention to life under apartheid in South Africa. “My activism always existed. My art gave me the platform to do something about the activism,” Belafonte once said during an interview. During the 1980s, Mr. Belafonte joined forces with Nelson Mandela in South Africa. For many years, Belafonte fought against apartheid, exchanging letters with Mandela while he was imprisoned and calling for his release. Belafonte was also a key figure in forming USA for Africa, an organization he aided in raising $50 million for hunger prevention. Belafonte, among other musicians, helped perform “We Are the World,” a song released in 1985 that became a massive hit, raising millions of dollars. Later, in 1987, Belafonte was appointed as a goodwill ambassador at UNICEF. In this role, he traveled to Dakar, Senegal, and served as a chairman for the International Symposium of Artists and Intellectuals for African Children. In 1993, Belafonte and his longtime friend, Sydney Poitier, were awarded LDF’s first Thurgood Marshall Lifetime Achievement Awards. The honor recognized the two men for their significant contributions to the causes of civil rights and racial justice. Belafonte also supported the formation and development of LDF’s National Equal Justice Awards Dinner, serving as an honorary committee member in 2006. In 2013, Belafonte founded Sankofa, a civil-rights organization dedicated to addressing injustices by supporting artists and allies in making change. That year, Belafonte accepted the NAACP Spingarn Medal, the organization’s highest honor. “America has never been moved to perfect our desire for greater democracy without radical thinking and radical voices being at the helm of any such quest,” Belafonte said in his acceptance speech. In 2019, Belafonte was awarded the Spirit of Justice award by LDF, accepted by Cicely Tyson, in recognition of his enduring commitment to achieving justice for all. The honor commemorated Belafonte’s revolutionary civil rights work throughout his lifetime. Belafonte is survived by his wife, Pamela Frank; his four children, Adrienne, Shari, David, and Gina; and his grandchildren. LDF sends its deepest condolences to Belafonte’s family and loved ones as they grieve this profound loss. Belafonte will always be remembered for his tireless dedication to others, his reverberating impact on advancing racial justice, and for the use of his platform to uplift human and civil rights around the world. In considering the influential legacy Belafonte leaves behind, we reflect on his words: “Each and every one of you has the power, the will, and the capacity to make a difference in the world in which you live.”


--- [‘Jamaica Farewell': Harry Belafonte passes away and the Caribbean tries to find adequate words of tribute] ---
No content


--- [Farewell Harry – UWI Museum] ---
“Sad to say I’m on my way Won’t be back for many a day My heart is down My head is turning around I had to leave a little girl in Kingston town” (“Jamaica Farewell” by Harry Belafonte) As Harry bid his farewell on Tuesday, April 25, 2023 at the age of 96. He did not just “leave a little girl in Kingston town,” but rather, he left behind many faces with smiles turned upside down. Harry Belafonte’s legacy extends far beyond his contributions to the arts. A tireless advocate for civil rights, human rights, and social justice, he used his fame to bring attention to these issues throughout his life. He joined the fight against racial inequality by participating in anti-apartheid demonstrations and dedicating an entire album, “Paradise in Gazankulu,” in 1988 to the struggles of Africans living in South Africa during apartheid. As a staunch supporter of the Civil Rights Movement and ally of Martin Luther King Jr., he also raised funds to free MLK and other freedom fighters who got arrested for their activism in 1963. Belafonte’s contribution to the advancement of social justice in the Caribbean must not be forgotten. Through songs like “Banana Boat (Day-O),” which became an anthem for Caribbean dockworkers and highlighted the exploitation of workers in the banana industry, Belafonte advocated for social justice and brought awareness to under-reported issues in society. In acknowledgement of his priceless contributions to arts and culture, as well as his fight against the socio-political issues affecting members of the African community, The University of the West Indies, Mona, awarded Belafonte an honorary LLD degree in 1996. This award was particularly meaningful to him because of his strong ties to the country and his humble beginnings. Despite a limited formal education, Belafonte rose to become one of the most celebrated performers of his time, using his platform to advocate for equality and the upliftment of members and descendants of the African community and other groups. Harry Belafonte has left an indelible mark on our society, serving as an exemplary figure for artists and activists across generations. His legacy and spirit will never be forgotten.


--- [Harry Belafonte, legendary singer, actor and civil rights activist, has died] ---
Slender and elegant, Harry Belafonte put African-American beauty with all its universality on view, himself a pure product of the American cultural mix. He died on April 25 in New York on the Upper West Side of Manhattan at the age of 96. According to his longtime spokesperson, who spoke to the New York Times, his cause of death was congestive heart failure. A singer, actor and political activist, Belafonte took on the role of "king of calypso," a music born at the beginning of the 20th century on the Caribbean islands of Trinidad and Tobago, where he had never set foot. Often communicating through double entendre, seemingly hedonistic and casual, calypso music swung migratory truths over a three-beat rhythm. In other respects a paragon of America's great variety, Belafonte was the unforgettable Corporal Joe, who fell madly in love with a rebellious working-class woman in Otto Preminger's Carmen Jones (1954), the first attempt at representing passionate diversity in an American cinema still haunted by the demons of segregation. A civil rights activist, Belafonte was a friend of Martin Luther King Jr. and a denigrator of the American right embodied by Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, the Bush dynasty and Donald Trump, whom he denounced relentlessly with his hoarse and deep voice. Meanwhile, he pointed a finger at the timid fighters for the Black cause, from Sidney Poitier to Jay-Z and Beyoncé, and even Barack Obama. An American icon, Belafonte embodied the enlightened, laughing, educated and polite face of a broken nation whose violence he knew all too well. Harold George Bellanfanti Jr., known as Harry Belafonte, was born on March 1, 1927, in Harlem, the beating heart of Black and Caribbean New York. He always claimed a lineage marked by mixed marriages. "If you could see my whole family congregated together, you would see every tonality of color, from the darkest black, like my Uncle Hyne, to the ruddiest white, like my Uncle Eric, a Scotsman," he mused. His housekeeper mother, Melvine Love, was born in Jamaica to a Scottish mother and a Jamaican father. Harold George Belafonte Sr., his father, a cook in the Royal Navy, was born in Martinique, with Haitian, Jamaican and Sephardic Jewish ancestry. Married in 1926, the Bellanfanti parents settled in Harlem, then returned to Jamaica during the Great Depression, before relocating to New York and then separating. Latent racism At the age of 9, he was sent back to Jamaica, still under British rule, with his brother Dennis. Their daily life was divided between a boarding school in Kingston and their grandmother's wooden house on stilts in Aboukir, a mountain village. He was the victim of latent racism – because of his dark complexion, he was discriminated against relatively more compared to his whiter brother – and discovered the correlation between skin color and social position. At that time, the Rastafari movement was in gestation, initiated in Jamaica by a pharmacist-healer expelled from Harlem, Leonard Percival Howell, who was allied in his admiration for "Ras," the Black king of Ethiopia, with a hero of the Black cause, Marcus Garvey (1887-1940). In 1914 in the United States, Garvey founded the Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA) and its newspaper, Negro World. A pan-Africanist, a proponent of the return to Africa, Garvey theorized the precedence of economics in the history of racism, drawing on his experience in his native Jamaica, where the racial order of society placed "black men and women as laborers, the colored man as clerk and sometimes owner and the white man... as master." "My mother's admiration for [Marcus Garvey] had a lasting influence on me," wrote Belafonte in his autobiography, My Song, published in 2011. In poor Harlem, Garvey "was a beacon of hope... in his own way… a founder of the civil rights movement." In Jamaica, the young New Yorker dove "into an environment that sang. Nature sang and the people sang, too. The streets of Kingston constantly rang with the songs of piping peddlers or politicians drumming up votes in the lilting singsong of the island. I loved it." Back in New York, Belafonte and Dennis settled at the corner of 130th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, in a predominantly White and Hispanic neighborhood. In 1944, Harry enlisted in the US Navy, which he left in late 1945. He then began attending the American Negro Theater in Harlem, where he rubbed shoulders with future actor and director Sidney Poitier. He then joined the Dramatic Workshop, led by the German director Erwin Piscator. Close to the Bauhaus and a communist, this supporter of the proletarian theater had fled Nazi Germany. Among Belafonte's classmates were Marlon Brando, Tony Curtis and Tennessee Williams. In 1948, Belafonte was hired at the theater to play the role of the son of Sojourner Truth, a black feminist abolitionist who helped the slaves of the South escape to the North via the Underground Railroad. The young actor was spotted by Monte Kay, founder of several jazz clubs where Charlie Parker, Miles Davis and Art Blakey performed, such as the Birdland, the Royal Roots and Kelly's Stable on 52nd Street, where Belafonte started out. For his first Broadway musical, John Murray Anderson's Almanac, he immediately won a Tony Award and a Theatre World Award. A few months later, he signed a contract with the record company RCA Victor. 'I wasn't even a full-fledged Jamaican or a black from Harlem with full African-American roots' – Harry Belafonte In 1949, the African-American pianist Nat King Cole, son of an Alabama pastor, a crooner and an activist against racism and segregation, triumphed with "Calypso Blues," a song extolling the sweetness of life without a dollar and the superiority of the Creole woman over icy blondes. In the early 1950s, Nat King Cole successfully united White and Black audiences. He had paved the way, and Belafonte was looking for his roots. In 1953, Belafonte released a successful single, a cover of "Matilda," composed by King Radio, a calypso star and Port-of-Spain harbor worker. But in 1954, his first album, Mark Twain and Other Folk Favorites, was dedicated to American folk. The charming singer, with a slightly husky voice that attracted women and inspired romance, had become passionate about the folk genre due to its political power. He would return in My Song to the importance of Woody Guthrie and Leadbelly, and in 1962 would record "Midnight Special," accompanied by a beginner, Bob Dylan, on harmonica. Early on, at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC, he listened to the thousands of recordings made by ethnomusicologist Alan Lomax in American prisons and throughout the countryside. "I wasn't even a full-fledged Jamaican or a black from Harlem with full African-American roots," wrote Belafonte in his autobiography. "All of this mattered, deeply, in the burgeoning folk movement of the early 1950s, because authenticity was what the songs were about, and an inauthentic singer, which was what I appeared to be, had no right to sing them." The proclamation of independence by Jamaica, of which he was a national, on August 6, 1962, was "a liberating celebration" for Belafonte. In 1954, his eponymous album, Belafonte, included "Matilda" and signaled his commitment to mento, calypso and beguine, music with complex origins, passing through West Africa, the French West Indies and the slave trade in the Caribbean in the 17th century. Released in 1956, Calypso contains a Jamaican traditional song, "Day-O (Banana Boat Song)," a work song, probably composed in situ by nighttime dockworkers who piled bunches of bananas on the boats, chasing spiders and demanding their pay in the early morning. "Day-O" soared to the top of the charts. Calypso, with most of the songs written by Caribbean-American Irving Burgie, stayed at the top of the Billboard charts for 31 weeks. It was the first album in the history of the music industry to sell more than a million copies. 1956 was the year of the presumed birth of rock 'n' roll – 21-year-old Elvis Presley released his first album, also on RCA Victor, that year. New York Times critic John S. Wilson noted that "Harry Belafonte's conscientiously precise and rounded diction is the direct opposite of Elvis Presley's mumbled and swallowed syllables." But underneath the polished exterior, Belafonte did not compromise. He had, for example, bickered with RCA about the cover. The first model represented his body with "a big bunch of bananas superimposed on [his] head. I looked like Carmen Miranda in drag, only in bare feet, with a big toothy grin, as if I were saying, 'Come to dee islands!'" Confidant of Martin Luther King Jr. A true American, Belafonte continued his quest. An Evening with Belafonte, released in 1957, drew on an array of traditions, from "Hava Nagila" to "When the Saints Go Marching In" and "Merci Bon Dieu," by Haitian Frantz Caseus. In 1958, he released Belafonte Sings the Blues, which includes a poignant and ironic interpretation of "Losing Hand," a song written by Jesse Stone for Ray Charles in 1953. In 1961, he returned to calypso with the album Jump Up Calypso and its effervescent single "Jump in the Line." But it was with the album Swing Dat Hammer, a collection of "chain gang work songs," the music of prisoners subjected to forced labor, that he won a Grammy Award that year. Belafonte took his cue from actor, singer and activist Paul Robeson (1898-1976). Son of a fugitive slave, Robeson was an athlete and a lawyer before his bass voice made him famous in the United States, England, Africa and the USSR, in the latter case because he was a communist sympathizer. In the 1950s, he was caught up in the witch-hunt of McCarthyism, which hampered his career. Robeson, who claimed his Igbo (Gulf of Guinea) ancestry and had learned Swahili, broadened Belafonte's political spectrum by revealing to him the ongoing struggles for decolonization in Africa. Belafonte simultaneously connected with the civil rights movement and Martin Luther King Jr. "I was angry when I met him. Anger had helped protect me. Martin understood my anger and saw its value," he wrote in My Song. Both an advisor and confidant to Dr. King, he was also one of the movement's patrons, funding voter registration drives, Freedom Rides and the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. Over the next 50 years, his activism would extend beyond national concerns. A friend of Nelson Mandela, he fought for equal civil rights around the world. He protected and launched the American career of the exiled anti-apartheid activist Miriam Makeba. He advocated for famine relief in Africa, for AIDS prevention and treatment, for the abolition of nuclear weapons, for education and so on. He fought in front of the United States Congress against the budget cuts inflicted on cultural programs. It was enough for him to push the superstar Michael Jackson ("too lazy" for his taste) to write "We Are the World" with Lionel Richie in 1985. Belafonte was one of the organizers of the recording sessions for the song denouncing the famine in Ethiopia. His support for Fidel Castro and his stance against the blockade of the communist island would earn him a full-scale artistic boycott. Belafonte never ceased to denounce the security policy put in place after September 11, 2001. "We've changed the civil liberties laws enough to go back to the McCarthy era. Today, any police officer can arrest me and put me in jail without charge. They can search my house or wiretap my phone without a warrant. On the Guantanamo base, detainees have found themselves convicted without a lawyer," he confided to Le Monde in 2003. 'Over the course of my life, Americans of African descent have been called 'coloreds,' "Negroes," "Blacks," and more recently "African-Americans"' – Harry Belafonte As the founder of Sankofa, a cultural foundation for social justice, Belafonte continued to work extensively, collecting, for example, in a five-CD set plus a remarkable booklet, Long Road to Freedom: An Anthology of Black Music, with themes that gave him a sense of belonging to the Black community, from traditional songs of the Gulf of Guinea to folk, spirituals, blues and rock. "Over the course of my life," Belafonte wrote in the booklet, "Americans of African descent have been called 'coloreds,' 'Negroes,' 'Blacks,' and more recently 'African-Americans.' A lifetime was spent in search of a name. No other human group has suffered such a dilemma," that of denial of its African past and ignorance of its history. In keeping with this theme, Belafonte bequeathed in 2020 a large part of his personal archives to the New York Public Library system, and to the Schomburg Center for Black Culture that the New York institution houses. In film, Belafonte turned Hollywood's relationship with the African-American community upside down, most notably with Otto Preminger's Carmen Jones (1954). Darryl Zanuck, the head of 20th Century Fox, had acquired the rights to Carmen Jones, a musical adapted from Georges Bizet's Carmen. The great Broadway librettist Oscar Hammerstein transposed the plot to the American South. "The stakes were high," Harry Belafonte confided to Le Monde in 2012. "For a very long time, in film culture, there had been the great myth that the best guarantee of economic failure was to make a film with black people. Otto Preminger did not believe this. He went against the grain, showing intelligent, dignified blacks." The Ku Klux Klan burned theaters where Carmen Jones was shown, while the next two films made by Belafonte, An Island in the Sun, by Robert Rossen (1957), and The World, the Flesh and the Devil, by Ranald MacDougall (1959), fanned the flames of those who opposed interracial love. "I quickly understood that Hollywood revealed what was wrong with our society," explained the actor, who was invited by Spike Lee to act in his film BlacKkKlansman in 2018. In the film, he played an old man who, at a meeting organized by a young Black Power student activist, gave an unbearable account of the lynching of Jesse Washington, a farm worker from Waco who was castrated, charred and hung from a tree in 1916. With an iron hand in a velvet glove, Belafonte was often intransigent. In 1959, Otto Preminger asked him to play the title role in Porgy and Bess, based on the opera by George and Ira Gershwin. The 1935 musical tells the story of Porgy, a crippled Black beggar living in the slums of Charleston. "George and Ira Gershwin took a calamitous racial drama and turned it into a great work of art," he explained to Le Monde in 2012. "The story itself is racist; the author of the novel, DuBose Heyward, practiced segregation, which he defended in writing and speech. At the time Otto Preminger wanted to adapt Porgy and Bess, the civil rights movement was in full swing. I was part of it, and I thought that making this film without changing anything in this story would aggravate the problem rather than challenge it." In 1959, he played a Black thug hated by his White, racist partner for Robert Wise's Odds Against Tomorrow, the parable of an America forced to work out its racial rifts to continue to exist. Belafonte wanted to hire Abraham Polonsky, a writer and director blacklisted during McCarthyism. "The film was produced by United Artists, a company run by liberal Jewish lawyers. The idea of employing people on the blacklist pleased them enormously. Then the FBI began to stick in its nose, and we had to remove the name of Polonsky from the credits." Belafonte insisted that the name Polonsky be replaced by that of John Killens, a Black writer." 'This president has stood behind those police who kill us in the streets and the armies of white supremacy who march by night and scheme in the light of day' – Harry Belafonte vs. Donald Trump in the 'New York Times,' November 2020 Belafonte never ceased to question the dangers of endemic, unresolved racism, examining its ins and outs, especially through cinema. In 1972, he was the rogue preacher in Sidney Poitier's Buck and the Preacher. In 1995, for White Man's Burden, by Desmond Nakano, he was the director of a company, inflicting humiliation on Whites in a fictional America where Blacks had taken power. The following year, a peaceful Belafonte played Seldom Seen, a gangster running a jazz club, in Kansas City, by Robert Altman. Belafonte lived in New York with his third wife, photographer Pamela Frank. In 2017, he served as co-chair of the Women's March on Washington, held the day after Trump took office. Four years later, again a candidate, Trump had tried to win the votes of African Americans with a cynical slogan, "What have you got to lose?" Belafonte responded in the New York Times: "Four years later, we know exactly what we had to lose. Our lives, as we died in disproportionate numbers from the pandemic he has let flourish among us. Our wealth, as we have suffered disproportionately from the worst economic drop America has seen in 90 years. Our safety, as this president has stood behind those police who kill us in the streets and by the armies of white supremacy who march by night and scheme in the light of day." March 1, 1927 Born in New York 1954 Carmen Jones, by Otto Preminger 1955 "Day-O," cover of a workers' song, worldwide success 1959 Odds Against Tomorrow, by Robert Wise 1985 Organized USA for Africa and the recording "We Are the World" against the famine in Ethiopia 1996 Kansas City, by Robert Altman 2000 Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award 2017 Co-chaired the Women's March on Washington 2018 Guest-starred in Spike Lee's film BlacKkKlansman April 25, 2023 Died in New York
