=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[RuPaul's Drag Race - Wikipedia]
RuPaul's Drag Raceisan American reality competition television series, the first in the Drag Race franchise, produced by World of Wonder for Logo TV, WOW Presents Plus, VH1 and, beginning with the fifteenthseason, MTV.Winner.Runner(s)-up. Miss Congeniality. First released.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RuPaul's_Drag_Race

[EverySeasonOf RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars, Ranked]
SummaryRPDRAll Starsseason1 format hurt theseasonbutseason2redeemed the series.Season9isunique as queens compete for charity funds, breaking Drag Race tradition.
URL: https://screenrant.com/every-season-of-rupauls-drag-race-all-stars-ranked/

[Fmovies - Watch RuPauls Drag Race -Season18 online.]
Notifications on this deviceisturn off for Fmovies! If you want to get notifications from Fmovies about new qualities and episodes follow the instructions below.
URL: https://new-fmovies.cam/series/rupauls-drag-race-season-18/v5S1VgYR

[Condragulations To Jane Don’t For Landing A Spot OnRPDRSeason...]
Queer Barwasproud to announce Jane’s casting on Instagram: Weareover the moon ecstatic and proud of our hostess with the mostess, the funniest lady alive @heyjanedont on makingSeason18 of @rupaulsdragrace.
URL: https://seattlegayscene.com/2025/12/condragulations-to-jane-dont-for-landing-a-spot-on-rpdr-season-18/

[RuPaul's Drag Race (TV Series 2009– ) - IMDb]
As ofseason4, a theatre finaleisrecordedtwoweeks before it's due to air. To keep the winner secret, the top queensareeach filmed winning and they find out at the same time as everyone elsewhohas won.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1353056/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [RuPaul's Drag Race - Wikipedia] ---
RuPaul's Drag Race is an American reality competition television series, the first in the Drag Race franchise, produced by World of Wonder for Logo TV (season 1–8), WOW Presents Plus, VH1 (season 9–14) and, beginning with the fifteenth season, MTV. The show documents RuPaul in the search for "America's next drag superstar". RuPaul plays the role of host, mentor, and head judge for this series, as contestants are given different challenges each week. Contestants are judged by a panel that includes RuPaul, Michelle Visage, one of four rotating judges  (Carson Kressley, Ross Mathews, Ts Madison, or Law Roach), as well as one or more guest judges, who critique their progress throughout the competition. The title of the show is a play on drag queen and drag racing, and the title sequence and song "Drag Race" both have a drag-racing theme.
RuPaul's Drag Race has aired for seventeen seasons and inspired the spin-off shows RuPaul's Drag U, RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars, RuPaul's Secret Celebrity Drag Race, and RuPaul's Drag Race Global All Stars; the companion series RuPaul's Drag Race: Untucked; and numerous international franchises.
The show became the highest-rated television program on Logo TV, and airs internationally, including in Ireland, Spain, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Mexico and Israel. The show earned RuPaul eight consecutive Emmy Awards (2016 to 2023) for Outstanding Host for a Reality or Competition Program. The show has been awarded the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Reality-Competition Program four consecutive times (2018 to 2021), and the Outstanding Reality Program Award at the GLAAD Media Awards. It has been nominated for five Critics' Choice Television Awards including Best Reality Series – Competition and Best Reality Show Host for RuPaul and numerous Creative Arts Emmy Awards.




--- [EverySeasonOf RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars, Ranked] ---
No content


--- [Fmovies - Watch RuPauls Drag Race -Season18 online.] ---
No content


--- [Condragulations To Jane Don’t For Landing A Spot OnRPDRSeason...] ---
And, once again, Seattle has local talent competing on RuPaul’s Drag Race, the long running drag queen competition talent show now in its 18th Season. World of Wonder, the producers of the show, have announced the line-up for the upcoming season which will feature 14 queens from around the country competing to be America’s Next Drag Superstar. The new season debuts on Friday, January 2, 2026 on MTV and Hulu with huge 90 minute episodes (as well as the return of the popular after show, Untucked. For Season 18, Queer Bar regular hostess and star JANE DON’T will represent the Emerald City. She’s in a long line of RPDR contestants with a tie to the Capitol Hill night life spot…previous contestants Bosco, Irene the Alien Dubois, and Arrietty all claim Queer Bar as their home bar, and Robbie Turner was the headliner there when they opened in 2017. Queer Bar was proud to announce Jane’s casting on Instagram: We are over the moon ecstatic and proud of our hostess with the mostess, the funniest lady alive @heyjanedont on making Season 18 of @rupaulsdragrace Jane Don’t has been our resident host and a staple in Seattle Queer nightlife for years. With a razor sharp wit, incomparable fashion, and infectious presence we know this dynamic diva is going to take the world by storm. We love you endlessly Jane! Leave an abundance of love for her in the comments and stay tuned for some exciting opportunities to celebrate with us! The best of luck to Jane Don’t! About the Author: Michael Strangeways Related Posts *Dragolicious • *Seattle Musicland • Arts & Entertainment • Bars & Nightclubs • Capitol Hill News • Community • Community Events • Concerts • DJ Dance Party • Drag • Drag O'Tainment • Mark Your Calendars • Music • Music-Queercore • News • Nightlife • Pop Stars • Pride • Queer News • RPDR • Seattle Lesbian Scene • Seattle News • Seattle Pride 2026 • Seattle Transgender Scene • We Love The Nightlife Queer Pride Festival Announces Line Up: Keke Palmer, JT and Honey Dijon Headline Yes, it’s that time already…time to start planning your Seattle *Cheesecake Babylon • *Dragolicious • Arts & Entertainment • Bars & Nightclubs • Drag • Drag O'Tainment • Legends • Nightlife • We Love The Nightlife Vaaaaaanjie!!! Amaaaanda!!! At Queer Baaaaaar!!! Queer Bar is giving us reasons to not flee Seattle *SGS Recommends • Arts & Entertainment • Arts News • Books • Books We Love • Capitol Hill News • Community • Community Events • Gay News • Geek • Graphic Novels • News • Queer Books Check Out Mike Curato’s New Graphic Novel, “Gaysians”!! Former Seattleite (and a former Ms Bacon Strip) artist and *Cheesecake Babylon • *Dragolicious • Bars & Nightclubs • Drag O'Tainment • Nightlife • Pride • RPDR • Seattle Pride 2025 • We Love The Nightlife Last Four RPDR Winners To Take Stage At Queer Pride Festival! This year’s Queer Pride Festival taking place in front of *Dragolicious • Arts & Entertainment • Capitol Hill News • Community • Community Events • DJ Dance Party • Drag • Drag O'Tainment • Mark Your Calendars • Music • News • Nightlife • Pride • Queer News • Seattle News • Seattle Pride 2025 • We Love The Nightlife Queer Bar Announces Line Up For Pride: Lil’ Kim, Tinashe, Rebecca Black, Countess Luann and…Heidi Montag? Queer Bar’s hugely popular Queer Pride Festival is all ready Comments are closed.


--- [RuPaul's Drag Race (TV Series 2009– ) - IMDb] ---
RuPaul searches for America's next drag superstar.RuPaul searches for America's next drag superstar.RuPaul searches for America's next drag superstar. - Won 29 Primetime Emmys - 88 wins & 154 nominations total Browse episodes Featured reviews 10julialug This is a great show. One of the best reality shows I've ever seen. Those interested in fashion, makeup and pop-culture will find it instantly interesting, but beyond the obvious, you'll find a show that makes you think about life, about parenting, about friendship and about love. It is truly wonderful to see these amazingly talented people that went through hard times, but are still able to find joy and beauty in life. They say Drag is the art of illusion. And isn't illusion a fantastic subject? Films like "Pan's Labyrinth" and "You Will meet a tall dark stranger" make me think so. For me, this kind of art can be appreciated on many levels, and watching this show, just makes me like I could feel/be fabulous too. (I'm married, with three kids, just saying!) They say Drag is the art of illusion. And isn't illusion a fantastic subject? Films like "Pan's Labyrinth" and "You Will meet a tall dark stranger" make me think so. For me, this kind of art can be appreciated on many levels, and watching this show, just makes me like I could feel/be fabulous too. (I'm married, with three kids, just saying!) I used to watch the show from the very first episode; back in the day, it wasn't popular, it wasn't that interesting, nobody knew about it. I stuck with it through thick and thin. Watched it all, because I loved it from the first sight. After all the seasons, international editions, all stars, covid, in and out, I look back and see how over produced and fake it has become. How clear it has become DragRace is not about Drag anymore; it's about taking drag to the bank. It's not about personality, fashion, carisma, talent. It's about what sells at the moment, and what won't. Sashay. Away. After all the seasons, international editions, all stars, covid, in and out, I look back and see how over produced and fake it has become. How clear it has become DragRace is not about Drag anymore; it's about taking drag to the bank. It's not about personality, fashion, carisma, talent. It's about what sells at the moment, and what won't. Sashay. Away. I am addicted to this show – stumbled upon it on VH1 with the Jocks in Frocks episode, was totally entertained by it, then looked it up on the internet and started watching all episodes, (ALL episodes, extras included) of Season 3, 2 and 1 on the Logo site, and I'm straight as a flagpole. Can they put this on DVD please ? – The Logo site keeps buffering with the same damn commercials (I like the Orbitz commercial tho w/Carmen, Manila and Shangela, tho). They must include the Untucked episodes on the DVD. It's funny how so many people take this reality show contest sooo seriously – I mean the winner is crowned to a live audience of 3 people, and the host of the Grand Finale in the Untucked episode is eating fried chicken out of a bucket (that's why I love this show) It's so campy and yet so glamorous. I'm so addicted – I can name every queen of every season, and since I'm sick and can't do anything but stare in front of a computer, I'll critique them all (Season 1 – The Originators) Bebe Zahara Benet – If Snatch Game were in Season 1, she'd nail Oprah / Nina Flowers – The fiercest androgynous look ever / Rebecca Glasscock - The 1st pretty girl of RPDR / Shannel - The prettiest "real" eyes / Ongina - The prettiest bald queen / Jade - At times, prettier than Rebecca / Akashia - Worst runway walk ever / Tammie Brown - Kinda spooky look / Victoria "Pork Chop" Parker - First big girl to go, will make the trivia list (Season 2) Tyra Sanchez – Straight women would've gone for him, he's a pretty boy / Raven - A macho pretty boy / Jujubee - She's Got Personality, lots of it / Tatianna - Prettier than Rebecca / Pandorra Box - Looks more like Kathy Griffin than Kathy Griffin / Jessica Wild - Miss Popularity / Sahara Davenport - Miss Ballet Moves / Morgan McMichaels - Miss Rebel / Sonique - Miss Acrobat / Mystique Summers Madison - Miss Splits / Nicole Paige Brooks - Reminded me of Julia Roberts, yes Julia Roberts / Shangela - (Seasons 2 & 3) I like and dislike her cause she's got lots of talent but her character on the show reminded me of someone really "shady" (Season 3 – I like this season best thus far, simply because of the variety of contestants) Raja – The fiercest ever runway walk / Manila Luzon - A glamorous camp queen / Alexis Mateo - Competitive, deserved top 3 / Yara Sofia – Wish she were in top 3, likable personality, but what's up with the freaky contact lenses / Carmen Carrera – The pretty girl of season 3, pulls off the female illusion the best / Delta Work - The prettiest of the big girls / Mariah Paris Balenciaga – Perhaps the most beautiful of all 3 seasons queens / Stacy Layne Bryant Matthews, etc. etc. - Already looks like a woman / Indiah Ferrah - She's got $600 boobs and she's gonna wear them / Mimi Imfurst – Aptly named / Phoenix - 2 episodes is not enough to pass judgment / Venus D-Lite - Madonna lives The Judges: who cares? The Pitt Crew: Nice touch, Ru. I hope Season 4 is just as enjoyable as Season 3. Can't wait for the next generation of Hoogers. Can they put this on DVD please ? – The Logo site keeps buffering with the same damn commercials (I like the Orbitz commercial tho w/Carmen, Manila and Shangela, tho). They must include the Untucked episodes on the DVD. It's funny how so many people take this reality show contest sooo seriously – I mean the winner is crowned to a live audience of 3 people, and the host of the Grand Finale in the Untucked episode is eating fried chicken out of a bucket (that's why I love this show) It's so campy and yet so glamorous. I'm so addicted – I can name every queen of every season, and since I'm sick and can't do anything but stare in front of a computer, I'll critique them all (Season 1 – The Originators) Bebe Zahara Benet – If Snatch Game were in Season 1, she'd nail Oprah / Nina Flowers – The fiercest androgynous look ever / Rebecca Glasscock - The 1st pretty girl of RPDR / Shannel - The prettiest "real" eyes / Ongina - The prettiest bald queen / Jade - At times, prettier than Rebecca / Akashia - Worst runway walk ever / Tammie Brown - Kinda spooky look / Victoria "Pork Chop" Parker - First big girl to go, will make the trivia list (Season 2) Tyra Sanchez – Straight women would've gone for him, he's a pretty boy / Raven - A macho pretty boy / Jujubee - She's Got Personality, lots of it / Tatianna - Prettier than Rebecca / Pandorra Box - Looks more like Kathy Griffin than Kathy Griffin / Jessica Wild - Miss Popularity / Sahara Davenport - Miss Ballet Moves / Morgan McMichaels - Miss Rebel / Sonique - Miss Acrobat / Mystique Summers Madison - Miss Splits / Nicole Paige Brooks - Reminded me of Julia Roberts, yes Julia Roberts / Shangela - (Seasons 2 & 3) I like and dislike her cause she's got lots of talent but her character on the show reminded me of someone really "shady" (Season 3 – I like this season best thus far, simply because of the variety of contestants) Raja – The fiercest ever runway walk / Manila Luzon - A glamorous camp queen / Alexis Mateo - Competitive, deserved top 3 / Yara Sofia – Wish she were in top 3, likable personality, but what's up with the freaky contact lenses / Carmen Carrera – The pretty girl of season 3, pulls off the female illusion the best / Delta Work - The prettiest of the big girls / Mariah Paris Balenciaga – Perhaps the most beautiful of all 3 seasons queens / Stacy Layne Bryant Matthews, etc. etc. - Already looks like a woman / Indiah Ferrah - She's got $600 boobs and she's gonna wear them / Mimi Imfurst – Aptly named / Phoenix - 2 episodes is not enough to pass judgment / Venus D-Lite - Madonna lives The Judges: who cares? The Pitt Crew: Nice touch, Ru. I hope Season 4 is just as enjoyable as Season 3. Can't wait for the next generation of Hoogers. The checklist for this show reads like this :- I'll be honest and say this show has everything I DESPISE all crammed together! I watched it by accident one day (season three mid episode) and I thought it was a normal beauty pageant show... then the camera went back stage and my mind took a minute to process... wait what? WHAT?!?! So what's the verdict? I LOVE IT!!!!!!!! not only is everything done tastefully and with a lot of dignity attached to it, it also manages to do that with a lot of fun and not taking itself too seriously. The show Humanizes the people on it so you don't see a "drag queen" you see the contestants. (Raven you will always be my fav!) at their best and not so best. each bigger then life and an entertainer at heart. Rupaul keeps it interesting with lots of fun little twists and event and the clothes (and the shoes, oh god the shoes!!!) are always beautiful. I love that the show celebrates different body types, they're not all skinny and tall blondes, curvy girls have a real shot here and some you'll fall in love with. Right now this show is by far the best American reality TV show there is. which queen will you root for this season? - Reality TV - Drama - men in drag - cheese extra thick - beauty pageant I'll be honest and say this show has everything I DESPISE all crammed together! I watched it by accident one day (season three mid episode) and I thought it was a normal beauty pageant show... then the camera went back stage and my mind took a minute to process... wait what? WHAT?!?! So what's the verdict? I LOVE IT!!!!!!!! not only is everything done tastefully and with a lot of dignity attached to it, it also manages to do that with a lot of fun and not taking itself too seriously. The show Humanizes the people on it so you don't see a "drag queen" you see the contestants. (Raven you will always be my fav!) at their best and not so best. each bigger then life and an entertainer at heart. Rupaul keeps it interesting with lots of fun little twists and event and the clothes (and the shoes, oh god the shoes!!!) are always beautiful. I love that the show celebrates different body types, they're not all skinny and tall blondes, curvy girls have a real shot here and some you'll fall in love with. Right now this show is by far the best American reality TV show there is. which queen will you root for this season? This show is truly ground breaking. This show allows all of America to see a bit of what gay culture is. Not to mention that its funny and the competition is fierce. IT makes people look at how talented and funny drag queens are. Drag is truly an art and it takes skill experience and talent. This show has guest judges apart from the standard judges which are Rupaul, Michelle Visage, and Santino Rice. The guest judges have included actors,singers and TV personalities. The challenges are design to test the queens and to allow them to show America why it is they should win. Acting, singing, rapping, comedy, dancing, impersonation, have all been bases for challenges. Anyone who is obsessed with pop culture should watch this show. Did you know - TriviaAs of season 4, a theatre finale is recorded two weeks before it's due to air. To keep the winner secret, the top queens are each filmed winning and they find out at the same time as everyone else who has won. - ConnectionsFeatured in RuPaul's Drag Race: Untucked!: Scream Queens (2014) - How many seasons does RuPaul's Drag Race have?Powered by Alexa Details Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content
