=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tennis player Damir Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking off court | CNN]
Mar 17, 2021 · Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at ...
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2021/03/17/tennis/damir-dzumhur-tennis-spt-intl

[Tennis: Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking off court ...]
Mar 17, 2021 · (Reuters) - Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at Acapulco, Mexico. Dzumhur, who reached a career-high ranking of 23rd in 2018, was serving at 5-5, 40-40 in the opening set against Botic van de Zandschulp when a forehand from his Dutch ...
URL: https://sg.news.yahoo.com/tennis-dzumhur-faces-disciplinary-probe-041250934.html

[ATP issues hefty fine to Damir Dzumhur following Acapulco outburst]
Mar 16, 2021 · Bosnian tennis star Damir Dzumhur has been fined $6,500 and stripped from his Acapulco first round prize money of $5,280 following his outburst at the Mexican ATP 500 event.
URL: https://www.tennisworldusa.org/tennis/news/ATP_Tennis/95971/atp-issues-hefty-fine-to-damir-dzumhur-following-acapulco-outburst-/

[Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking… - inkl]
Mar 17, 2021 · Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at Acapulco, Mexico.
URL: https://www.inkl.com/news/dzumhur-faces-disciplinary-probe-fined-for-walking-off-court

[Tennis: Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking off court | The Star]
(Reuters) - Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at Acapulco, Mexico.
URL: https://www.thestar.com.my/sport/tennis/2021/03/17/dzumhur-faces-disciplinary-probe-fined-for-walking-off-court


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tennis player Damir Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking off court | CNN] ---
Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at Acapulco, Mexico. Dzumhur, who reached a career-high ranking of 23rd in 2018, was serving at 5-5, 40-40 in the opening set against Botic van de Zandschulp when a forehand from his Dutch opponent was called in by the line judge. Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and features Dzumhur approached the chair umpire asking for the call to be overruled but to no avail and then lost his cool. He subsequently lost the service game to trail 6-5. An infuriated Dzumhur continued remonstrating with the chair umpire during the change of ends and received a code violation. After returning to court he again said something to the umpire during the next game and received a point penalty. The world No. 125 then walked off the court, threw his racquet on his bag and touched fists with Van de Zandschulp signaling his intention to stop playing. While de Zandschulp walked away with his bag, Dzumhur had a discussion with the tournament supervisor but continued to speak angrily with the chair umpire. “In a second round qualifying match in Acapulco, Damir Dzumhur received two code violations for unsportsmanlike conduct, and his failure to continue the match resulted in a default,” the ATP said in a statement. “In addition to a total fine of $6,500, Dzumhur forfeits the second round qualifying prize money of $5,280. “Following the penalties issued on-site, a further investigation will be initiated under the Player Major Offence provision under ATP Rules,” the men’s governing body added.


--- [Tennis: Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking off court ...] ---
Tennis: Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking off court (Reuters) - Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at Acapulco, Mexico. Dzumhur, who reached a career-high ranking of 23rd in 2018, was serving at 5-5, 40-40 in the opening set against Botic van de Zandschulp when a forehand from his Dutch opponent was called in by the line judge. Dzumhur approached the chair umpire asking for the call to be overruled but to no avail and then lost his cool. He subsequently lost the service game to trail 6-5. An infuriated Dzumhur continued remonstrating with the chair umpire during the change of ends and received a code violation. After returning to court he again said something to the umpire during the next game and received a point penalty. The world number 125 then walked off the court, threw his racquet on his bag and touched fists with Van de Zandschulp signalling his intention to stop playing. While de Zandschulp walked away with his bag, Dzumhur had a discussion with the tournament supervisor but continued to speak angrily with the chair umpire. "In a second round qualifying match in Acapulco, Damir Dzumhur received two code violations for unsportsmanlike conduct, and his failure to continue the match resulted in a default," the ATP said in a statement. "In addition to a total fine of $6,500, Dzumhur forfeits the second round qualifying prize money of $5,280. "Following the penalties issued on-site, a further investigation will be initiated under the Player Major Offence provision under ATP Rules," the men's governing body added. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Peter Rutherford)


--- [ATP issues hefty fine to Damir Dzumhur following Acapulco outburst] ---
Bosnian tennis star Damir Dzumhur has been fined $6,500 and stripped from his Acapulco first round prize money of $5,280 following his outburst at the Mexican ATP 500 event. Dzumhur wasn't happy with the calls made during his qualifying second round clash and he walked away from the court while Botic Van de Zandschulp was serving for the first set. It appeared that Dzumhur was disqualified but after the match the Bosnian claimed he wasn't disqualified as he insisted he walked away from the court die to "injustice." "It is important for me to emphasize that I was not disqualified, I have chosen to leave the court voluntarily”, said Dzumhur, per Tennis Majors. “Simply, I could not bear that someone treats me very badly, that he can do whatever he wants; the umpire directly influenced the match with his bad calls. The last straw was the ball at 5-5 and 40-40; it was clear that the ball was out, but he did not react and I have lost that game”. Dzumhur insisted there were no death threats Dzumhur was extremely frustrated and he didn't spare chair umpire. After the match, some reports suggested that Dzumhur sent death threats to chair umpire. “I honestly do not know where some websites have found the information about me threatening that I would kill anyone. It is true that I have said to the supervisor that I felt the need to hit the umpire because of what he has done to me. Supervisor suggested that it was not such a great idea, that I could further damage myself. I have answered that I do not care since I was nervous, but I did manage to regroup myself and leave the court. I have not threatened that I would kill anyone, I do not know where that came from, especially since there is video footage of the whole thing,'' Dzumhur added.


--- [Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking… - inkl] ---
Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at Acapulco, Mexico. Dzumhur, who reached a career-high ranking of 23rd in 2018, was serving at 5-5, 40-40 in the opening set against Botic van de Zandschulp when a forehand from his Dutch opponent was called in by the line judge. Dzumhur approached the chair umpire asking for the call to be overruled but to no avail and then lost his cool. He subsequently lost the service game to trail 6-5. An infuriated Dzumhur continued remonstrating with the chair umpire during the change of ends and received a code violation. After returning to court he again said something to the umpire during the next game and received a point penalty. The world number 125 then walked off the court, threw his racquet on his bag and touched fists with Van de Zandschulp signalling his intention to stop playing. While de Zandschulp walked away with his bag, Dzumhur had a discussion with the tournament supervisor but continued to speak angrily with the chair umpire. "In a second round qualifying match in Acapulco, Damir Dzumhur received two code violations for unsportsmanlike conduct, and his failure to continue the match resulted in a default," the ATP said in a statement. "In addition to a total fine of $6,500, Dzumhur forfeits the second round qualifying prize money of $5,280. "Following the penalties issued on-site, a further investigation will be initiated under the Player Major Offence provision under ATP Rules," the men's governing body added. (Reporting by Sudipto Ganguly in Mumbai; editing by Peter Rutherford)


--- [Tennis: Dzumhur faces disciplinary probe, fined for walking off court | The Star] ---
(Reuters) - Damir Dzumhur has been fined and will face a further probe after the Bosnian walked off court in anger over a line call during his second qualifying round match on Sunday in the ATP 500 event at Acapulco, Mexico. Dzumhur, who reached a career-high ranking of 23rd in 2018, was serving at 5-5, 40-40 in the opening set against Botic van de Zandschulp when a forehand from his Dutch opponent was called in by the line judge. Already a subscriber? Log in Get 20% OFF The Star Digital Access Cancel anytime. Ad-free. Unlimited access with perks.
