=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kara Walker: My Complement, My Enemy, My Oppressor, My Love | Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth]
Jul 3, 2008 · She was the United States representative for the 25th International São Paulo Biennial in Brazil (2002). She currently lives in New York, where she is associate professor of visual arts at Columbia University, New York.
URL: https://www.themodern.org/exhibition/kara-walker-my-complement-my-enemy-my-oppressor-my-love

[Kara Walker - Camden Art Centre]
Oct 11, 2013 · She participated in the 52nd Venice International Biennale in 2007 and was the United States representative to the 25th International São Paulo Biennial in Brazil in 2002.
URL: https://camdenartcentre.org/whats-on/kara-walker

[Renowned Artist Kara Walker to Speak September 19 at Pratt Institute - Pratt Institute]
Sep 12, 2011 — Walker participated in the 52nd Venice Biennale in 2007 and was the United States representative to the 25th São Paulo Biennial in Brazil in ...
URL: https://www.pratt.edu/news/renowned_artist_kara_walker_to_speak_september_19_at_pratt_institute/

[File Note 82: Kara Walker - Camden Art Centre]
Kara Walker: My Complement, My ... Biennale in 2007 and was the United States representative to the 25th International São Paulo Biennial in Brazil in 2002....
URL: https://camdenartcentre.org/file-notes/file-note-82-kara-walker

[Violence in Contemporary Art (Canceled) | Wolf Humanities Center]
She also participated in the 53rd Venice Biennale in 2007 and was the U.S. representative to the 25th International São Paulo Biennial in Brazil in 2002. In 1997 at age 27 she became the youngest recipient of the MacArthur Foundation "genius" grant.
URL: https://wolfhumanities.upenn.edu/events/violence-contemporary-art-canceled


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kara Walker: My Complement, My Enemy, My Oppressor, My Love | Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth] ---
Kara Walker: My Complement, My Enemy, My Oppressor, My Love Kara Walker Slavery! Slavery! Presenting a GRAND and LIFELIKE Panoramic Journey into Picturesque Southern Slavery or “Life at ‘Ol’ Virginny’s Hole’ (sketches from Plantation Life)” See the Peculiar Institution as never before! All cut from black paper by the able hand of Kara Elizabeth Walker, an Emancipated Negress and leader in her Cause, 1997 Cut paper and adhesive on wall 12 x 85 ft. (3.7 x 25.9 m) overall Collections of Peter Norton and Eileen Harris Norton. Photograph courtesy Walker Art Center My Complement, My Enemy, My Oppressor, My Love, the first full-scale American museum survey of the work of artist Kara Walker, features works ranging from her signature black cut-paper silhouettes to film animations to more than 100 works on paper. Kara Walker is among the most complex and prolific American artists of her generation. Over the past decade, she has gained national and international recognition for her room-size tableaux depicting historical narratives haunted by sexuality, violence, and subjugation through the genteel 18th-century art of cut-paper silhouettes. Set in the American South before the Civil War, Walker's compositions play off stereotypes to portray, often grotesquely, life on the plantation, where masters, mistresses, slaves, women, and children enact a subverted version of the past. Over the years the artist has used drawing, painting, light projections, writing, shadow puppetry, and, most recently, film animation to narrate her tales of romance and oppression, power and liberation. These scenarios thwart conventional readings of a cohesive national history and expose the collective and ongoing psychological injury caused by the tragic legacy of slavery. Her work leads viewers through an aesthetic experience that evokes a critical and emotional understanding of the past and proposes an examination of contemporary racial and gender stereotypes. Walker's visual epics systematically and critically walk a line—the "color line," to quote W.E.B. Du Bois—that moves us from the antebellum South to an analysis of many of the prevailing economic, social, and individual power structures still in place today. Deploying an acidic sense of humor, she examines the dialectic of pleasure and danger, guilt and fulfillment, desire and fear, race and class. "The black subject in the present tense is the container for specific pathologies from the past," says the artist, "and it is continuously growing and feeding off those maladies." Organized as a narrative, the exhibition articulates the parallel shifts in Walker’s visual language and subject matter—from a critical analysis of the history of slavery as a microcosm of American history through the structure of romantic literature and Hollywood film to a revised history of Western modernism and its relationship to the notion of "primitivism." Born in 1969 in Stockton, California, Kara Walker received her BFA from the Atlanta College of Art in 1991 and her MFA from Rhode Island School of Design in 1994. Since that time, she has created more than 30 room-size installations and hundreds of drawings and watercolors, and has been the subject of more than 40 solo exhibitions. She is the recipient of numerous grants and fellowships, including the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Achievement Award (1997) and, most recently, the Deutsche Bank Prize (2004) and the Larry Aldrich Award (2005). She was the United States representative for the 25th International São Paulo Biennial in Brazil (2002). She currently lives in New York, where she is associate professor of visual arts at Columbia University, New York. Kara Walker Cut, 1998 Cut paper on wall, 88 x 54 inches Collection of Donna and Cargill MacMilla Kara Walker Slavery! Slavery! Presenting a GRAND and LIFELIKE Panoramic Journey into Picturesque Southern Slavery or “Life at ‘Ol’ Virginny’s Hole’ (sketches from Plantation Life)” See the Peculiar Institution as never before! All cut from black paper by the able hand of Kara Elizabeth Walker, an Emancipated Negress and leader in her Cause, 1997 Cut paper and adhesive on wall 12 x 85 ft. (3.7 x 25.9 m) overall Collections of Peter Norton and Eileen Harris Norton. Photograph courtesy Walker Art Center


--- [Kara Walker - Camden Art Centre] ---
In her first London solo exhibition, American artist Kara Walker brought together several important bodies of work across all three gallery spaces at Camden Art Centre Renouncing the sensitivity that often shrouds the subject, Walker’s work critically and unapologetically interrogates underlying racial and gender tensions. Through characters drawn from American popular literature, culture and history, she exposes the myths that lie beneath cultural archetypes and the darker aspects of human behaviour. Walker’s work reflects her research into the white supremacist movement and gun culture in the US. Peopled with subjects from both past and contemporary history, her work weaves together historical documents of slavery with more recent racial issues. The exhibition at Camden Art Centre brought together several important bodies of Walker’s work. Dust Jackets for the Niggerati is a series of large graphite drawings, conceived as book covers for unwritten essays and works of fiction, which investigates pivotal transitions in black American history and the missing narratives of the black migration. Shown alongside a video installation of her shadow play Fall Frum Grace- Miss Pipi’s Blue Tale and intricately cut silhouette installations, the ‘wall samplers’, the exhibition addressed highly-charged subjects of repression, discrimination and sexual violence. Connecting all of the work was an examination of power, racial myths and stereotypes. Using graphically simple and traditional media, Walker articulates suffering and violence within American history that continues to resonate in society today.


--- [Renowned Artist Kara Walker to Speak September 19 at Pratt Institute - Pratt Institute] ---
Renowned artist Kara Walker will speak on her work and career at Pratt Institute at 6 p.m. on Monday, September 19, in Memorial Hall Auditorium on Pratt’s Brooklyn Campus. The event is free and open to the public, however, seating priority will be given to Pratt students and faculty members with valid ID at 5:30 p.m. Members of the public will be admitted at 5:50 p.m. if seating is available. The talk will be presented by Pratt Institute’s Writing Program, and its Departments of Humanities and Media Studies and Social Science and Cultural Studies, which are housed in the School of Liberal Arts and Sciences, and its Department of History of Art and Design, which is housed within the School of Art and Design. Walker is known for her candid investigation of race, gender, sexuality, and violence throughout life-sized silhouetted figures that have appeared in exhibitions worldwide. Her work was most recently on view as part of two solo joint exhibitions at Sikkema Jenkins & Co. and Lehmann Maupin Gallery in New York. Sikkema Jenkins & Co. presented new graphite drawings and hand-printed texts on paper that explore themes of transition and migration that run throughout the African American experience in the 20th century as part of an exhibition titled “Dust Jackets for the Niggerati — and Supporting Dissertations, Drawings Submitted Ruefully by Dr. Kara E. Walker.” Lehmann Maupin Gallery presented an exhibition titled, “Fall Frum Grace, Miss Pipi’s Blue Tale,” which comprised three new video works drawing on Walker’s experience in the Mississippi Delta. Walker’s major survey show, titled “Kara Walker: My Complement, My Enemy, My Oppressor, My Love,” premiered at the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, in 2007 before traveling to ARC/ Musée d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris; the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York; the Hammer Museum, Los Angeles; and the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth. Other recent solo exhibitions have taken place at CAC Málaga, Centro de Arte Contemporáneo de Málaga, Spain, and MDD — Museum Dhondt-Dhaenens in Deurle, Belgium, both in 2008. Walker participated in the 52nd Venice Biennale in 2007 and was the United States representative to the 25th São Paulo Biennial in Brazil in 2002. Walker is the recipient of many awards including the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Achievement Award in 1997, the Deutsche Bank Prize in 2000, and United States Artists Eileen Harris Norton Fellowship in 2008. Her work is included in numerous museums and public collections including the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, New York; the Museum of Modern Art, New York; the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; the Tate Gallery, London; the Centro Nazionale per le Arti Contemporanee, Rome; and Deutsche Bank, Frankfurt. Walker was born in Stockton, California, and grew up in Atlanta, Georgia. She graduated from Atlanta College of Art in 1991 and received her master of fine arts degree from Rhode Island School of Design in 1994. She lives and works in New York City. Image: Kara Walker’s Gone, An Historical Romance of a Civil War as it Occurred between the Dusky Thighs of One Young Negress and Her Heart [detail], 1994. Courtesy of Sikkema Jenkins & Co.


--- [File Note 82: Kara Walker - Camden Art Centre] ---
Essay by Hari Kunzru In the old slave ports of Bristol and Liverpool, the history is — well, not exactly inescapable, but there if you want to look for it. In the Capital we tend to think of blackness as starting somewhere after World War II, with the Windrush and calypso star Lord Kitchener sauntering down the gangplank singing ‘London is the Place for Me’. We go to the Tate, but don’t think much about the sugar money that built it, let alone the plantations on the other side of the Atlantic. West India Quay is just a stop on the Docklands Light Railway. And now Kara Walker, an American Negress, comes to London with her pencils and paper and scissors and glue, stirring up trouble. Digging up things that ought to have been laid to rest, ugly things from the past. How are we supposed to deal with these images; figures which seem like racist caricatures, situations filled with sexual violence, this endless carnival of cruelty that seems to be taking place in a sort of cultural Never Neverland, somewhere between Gone with the Wind and hell? Sorry, you find what offensive? Negress. Yes, of course. That ought to be African-American. Kara Walker, an African-American, uses old-fashioned language in her titles, which read like playbills or auctioneer’s advertisements. A black artist promoting an exhibition, or just making an exhibition of herself? Is she the one standing up on the auctioneer’s block, ready to show her fine set of teeth, to turn and display her backside to potential buyers? Who’s being exploited? Who’s getting paid? Everybody knows there’s no place whiter than a white cube — and now she’s filled it with such inky darkness! When a rich white collector buys these pictures, what does it mean? Or a black collector? Or … Let me put it another way, madam: imagine you’re sitting on the tube and a gang of black boys comes on, big black boys in sagging trousers with their underpants showing, laughing and talking loudly, moving with that way they have, that rolling, physical way that makes it hard to ignore their bodies, hard not to think about what’s between their legs. When you tug down the hem of your dress and clutch your handbag a little tighter, that has nothing to do with history, right? Now you seem really angry. I agree, that was probably uncalled-for. I’m sorry I’ve offended you. Yes, it is excessive, this endless parade of suffering. It’s hard to catch your breath when one horrible thing just seems to lead to another. We’ve banned the Robertson’s Golly. What more does Walker want? If anything, she’s the one making it worse. Just as we’ve forced all this filth back into its historical box, just as we’ve trained the white people not to use the words, here it comes again, the return of the repressed, grinning and capering, as if to say, you haven’t finished with me yet. Walker once explained (she has to do a lot of explaining) that ‘a black subject in the present tense is a container for specific pathologies from the past’. These figures, festering in our collective imagination, are evidence of a sickness that hasn’t gone away and won’t be cured with tasteful silence. Old fears about miscegenation and black hypersexuality still inform how black people are seen — and perhaps how they see themselves. It’s Walker’s most unsettling claim: that this muck of the past is the raw material of twenty-first century black subjectivity. Perhaps the most shocking thing of all is that a young black woman draws her way into her unconscious and finds this stuff still lurking there. Black artists are supposed to represent positively. They’re supposed to lift up the race, or promote diversity, or do some other anodyne socially-useful thing for which there’s usually a jargon term, whether it’s 1925 or 2013. They’re not supposed to explore the underside of their identity in such an irresponsible, unfiltered way. That’s a privilege reserved for white artists, who can be shocking without being accused of dragging a whole bunch of other people around with them. Walker’s black bodies are exaggerated, comic, all holes and swellings and illegitimate couplings, the very opposite of the noble, closed-off white marble bodies that stand for elevation and decency in the tradition of high art. Often they’re silhouettes, not even individuals, just outlines, types, archetypes. The white master, the mammy, the buck and the belle. The social relations of slavery have gone, but the psychological trace remains. It’s probably not surprising that an artist who has provoked a certain agitation among the gatekeepers of black culture should start turning over rocks in the sacred garden of the Harlem Renaissance. The title for the series of graphite drawings, Dust Jackets for the Niggerati, is taken from a self-ironising name given by the nineteen-twenties novelist and editor Wallace Thurman to his coterie of black intellectuals. The font Walker uses for her acid barbs echoes the typography Aaron Douglas invented to express New York bohemia’s hopes for a new black vanguard. So the ‘dust jackets’ Walker has produced seem like a question posed primarily to other black artists and intellectuals: what’s the difference between ecstatically proclaiming the birth of a New Negro and writing a worthy academic book about something or other and modern black identity? One is the authentic impulse of modernism, madam. The other is 2013. Heaven knows, identity politics is nothing to joke about. The quintessential modern American euphemism is ‘the N word’, and policing its usage seems to stand in, for a lot of people, for all the things which are less easy to change about the situation of black people in America. Instead of a New Negro, America has spewed out a New Jim Crow, in the shape of a prison system which incarcerates black men at a rate only explicable by racism. There’s no way of swirling any cream into that bitter coffee, not even under the rule of America’s first black president. Obama’s election brought a lot of watermelon and monkey jokes out of the white American closet, a lot of lynch-party daydreams. But what’s the real dirty secret of his presidency? Walker draws a lectern, an autocue, something which might be a screen. But there’s nobody there, and it looks like the equipment has been set up in a cell. It’s an obscene show all right, a tragedy performed by shadow puppets to the sound of muffled laughter. Hilton Als The Women Farrar Straus Giroux (1996) Donald Bogle Tom, Coons, Mulattoes, Mammies and Bucks: An Interpretive History of Blacks in American Films Viking Press (1973) Ken Burns (Dir.) The Civil War [Broadcast on PBS] (1990) Octavia Butler Kindred Doubleday (1979) Ralph Ellison Invisible Man Random House (1952) Harriet Jacobs (pseudonym Linda Brent) Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl Thayer & Eldridge (1861) Kellie Jones Now Dig This!: Art and Black Los Angeles 1960–1980 Prestel Publishing (2011) Margaret Mitchell Gone with the Wind Macmillian Publishers (1936) Maggie Nelson The Art of Cruelty: A Reckoning W W Norton & Company (2011) Stephan Oettermann The Panorama: History of a Mass Medium Zone Books (1997) William Luther Pierce (pseudonym Andrew MacDonald) The Turner Diaries National Vanguard Books (1978) Philipp Otto Runge Scherenschnitte Insel-Verlag (1977) ‘No longer caught in the sadomasochistic sexual iconography of black female in erotic war with her mate that was the subtext of the Ike and Tina Turner Show, she is now portrayed as the autonomous black woman whose sexuality is solely a way to exert power. Inverting old imagery, she places herself in the role of dominator.’ Bell Hooks, ‘Selling Hot Pussy’ in Black Looks: Race and Representation (1992) Kara Walker (b. 1969, Stockton, California) grew up in Atlanta, Georgia. She graduated from the Atlanta College of Art in 1991 and received her MFA from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1994. She currently lives and works in New York. Recent solo exhibitions have taken place at Center for Contemporary Art Ujazdowski Castle, Warsaw, Poland (2011); CAC Málaga, Spain and MDD (Museum Dhondt-Dhaenens) in Deurle, Belgium (both 2008). Kara Walker: My Complement, My Enemy, My Oppressor, My Love, Walker Art Center, Minneapolis; ARC/Musée d’Art moderne de la Ville de Paris, France; Whitney Museum of American Art, New York; Hammer Museum, Los Angeles; and Museum of Modern Art, Fort Worth (2007/2008). She participated in the 52nd Venice International Biennale in 2007 and was the United States representative to the 25th International São Paulo Biennial in Brazil in 2002. Hari Kunzru is a British novelist based in New York City. Supported by Vicky Hughes and John Smith. Paint kindly provided by Farrow & Ball.


--- [Violence in Contemporary Art (Canceled) | Wolf Humanities Center] ---
Kara Walker's internationally acclaimed works spin stark narratives of race, gender, sexuality, and the violence that attends them. She is joined by Penn's renowned poet Charles Bernstein for a lively conversation about how violence intersects with art in our time. The Penn Humanities Forum is pleased to present this event in conjunction with "Ruffneck Constructivists," a group exhibition at the Institute of Contemporary Art. Curated by Walker, ICA's exhibition brings together artists known to make challenging work in response to social inequities. Kara Walker graduated from the Atlanta College of Art in 1991 and received her M.F.A. from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1994. She is currently on the faculty of Columbia University as Professor of Visual Arts in the School of Visual Arts. Her work explores the tensions and power plays of racial and gender relations, in particular engaging with historical narratives and the ways in which these stories have been suppressed, distorted, and falsified. Named one of Time Magazine's most influential people in 2007, Walker has participated in numerous national and international exhibitions. Among her more recent solo museum shows are "Kara Walker: My Complement, My Enemy, My Oppressor, My Love," which opened at the Walker Art Center in 2007 and traveled to ARC/Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris, the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, and the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles. Her show "Kara Walker at the Met: After the Deluge" opened at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2006. She also participated in the 53rd Venice Biennale in 2007 and was the U.S. representative to the 25th International São Paulo Biennial in Brazil in 2002. In 1997 at age 27 she became the youngest recipient of the MacArthur Foundation "genius" grant. In 2000 she received the Deutsche Bank Prize, and in 2008 the United States Artists Eileen Harris Norton Fellowship. She is a 2012 inductee into the American Academy of Arts and Letters as well as the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Her work is included in numerous museums and public collections including the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Tate Gallery in London, the Centro Nazionale per le Arti Contemporanee in Rome, and Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt. She is currently at work on "At the behest of Creative Time Kara E. Walker has confected: A Subtlety or the Marvelous Sugar Baby," a large-scale installation to open May 10, 2014 in Brooklyn's legendary Domino Sugar Factory. Artist
