=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Natasha C. Merle - Wikipedia]
From 2021 to 2023, she was the deputy director of litigation at LDF. [2] From 2019 to 2021, Merle was a adjunct professor of clinical law at the New York University School of Law and from 2020 to 2021, she was a lecturer in law at Columbia Law School. [1][6]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Natasha_C._Merle

[Natasha Merle – Nominee to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York | The Vetting Room]
Eastern District nominee Natasha Merle, who works for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, is part of this trend. ... Merle attended the University of Texas at Austin, graduating in 2005. Merle then attended New York University Law School, graduating ...
URL: https://vettingroom.org/2022/03/03/natasha-merle/

[Natasha Merle]
Natasha graduated cum laude from New York University School of Law and with Honors from the University of Texas at Austin with a B.A. in Government and Spanish.
URL: https://www.naacpldf.org/about-us/staff/natasha-merle/

[Natasha Merle - Alliance for Justice]
In that role, she worked with other ... Merle has also taught courses on racial justice and equity at New York University School of Law and at Columbia Law School....
URL: https://afj.org/nominee/natasha-merle/

[Support Natasha Merle]
Jan 23, 2023 — Ms. Merle has also trained future lawyers, teaching at New York University School of Law and Columbia Law. School. A graduate of the University ...3 pages·191 KB
URL: https://www.civilrightsdocs.info/pdf/policy/letters/2023/Support-Natasha-Merle.pdf


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Natasha C. Merle - Wikipedia] ---
Natasha Clarise Merle (born 1983) is an American lawyer from New York who serves as a United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.




--- [Natasha Merle – Nominee to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York | The Vetting Room] ---
The Biden Administration has tapped attorneys from many prominent civil rights organizations for the bench. Eastern District nominee Natasha Merle, who works for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, is part of this trend. Background Merle attended the University of Texas at Austin, graduating in 2005. Merle then attended New York University Law School, graduating in 2008. She then clerked for Judge Robert Carter on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York before joining the Gulf Region Advocacy Center. After two years at the Advocacy Center, Center became a federal public defender in the Eastern District of New York and then clerked for Judge John Gleeson on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. She then joined the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, where she currently serves as deputy director of litigation. History of the Seat Merle has been nominated for a seat on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This seat opened on February 1, 2021 by statute because Judge Roslynn Mauskopf was designated to the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. Legal Experience Merle has held a number of legal positions throughout her career, although she has spent the majority of it at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. Early in her career, Merle spent a year as a federal public defender, where she worked on appeals. See, e.g., People v. Rowser, 139 A.3d 489 (N.Y. App. Div. 2016). Merle has been with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund since 2013. Notably, she was part of the legal team representing Duane Bell, a Texas man whose death sentence was overturned by the Supreme Court because of racially prejudiced comments presented by a defense expert during the sentencing phase of his trial. See Buck v. Davis, 137 S. Ct. 759 (2017). In a media statement, Merle noted that the case was about whether a state could execute someone after a sentencing infected with “racial bias.” Feliks Garcia, Supreme Court Slams Texas Man’s ‘Racially Tainted’ Death Sentence, Calls It “Indefensible”; The Jury’s Decision Hinged on Expert Witness Testimony That Claimed That Black People Were Statistically More Prone to Violent Criminal Behavior, The Independent, Oct. 5, 2016. In additional matters, Merle was part of the legal team suing Alabama over its voter ID law, and argued the case before the Eleventh Circuit. Mallory Moensch, Civil Rights Groups Appeal Alabama Voter ID Ruling, A.P. State & Local, Feb. 22, 2018. See also Greater Birmingham Ministries v. Merrill, 250 F. Supp. 3d 1238 (N.D. Ala. 2017). She also brought suit against Arkansas for vote dilution of black voters in judicial elections. See Frazier v. Kelley, 460 F. Supp. 3d 799 (E.D. Ark. 2020). In non-voting matters, Merle sued on behalf of black communities in Philadelphia over excessive force used during protests over police brutality in 2020. See Ellie Silverman and Mike Newall, Trump: May Send Officers to Phila.; It Was Among Cities He Named as He Lauded Use of Force Against Oregon Protesters. Kenney Said They Are Not Wanted Here, Philadelphia Daily News, July 21, 2020. She also sued the Alamance County Sheriff for allegedly using excessive force against protesters. See Isaac Groves, Second Lawsuit Charges Sheriff, Police with Suppressing Vote, Times-News, Nov. 9, 2020. Statements and Writings In her role at the NAACP LDF, Merle has frequently written and commented on the law, particularly in relation to pending litigation. For example, Merle noted, in connection with a lawsuit against President Trump’s Election Integrity Commission, that “[a]llegations of voter fraud have historically been used to target minority voters and deprive them full access to the franchise.” See Press Release, NAACP Legal Defense Fund, LDF, Local Alabama Organization File Federal Lawsuit Challenging President’s ‘Election Integrity’ Commission, Targeted News Service, July 18, 2017. Additionally, Merle has also submitted letters to government officials, for example, sending a letter to the Texas Secretary of State asking for additional efforts to accommodate voting for those internally displaced by Hurricane Harvey. See Sam Levine, Civil Rights Group Threatens Texas If It Doesn’t Protect Voting Rights of Hurricane Victims, Huffington Post, Oct. 13, 2017. Overall Assessment Like many of her colleagues tapped for the bench and executive positions, Merle is likely to see strong opposition. Nonetheless, given Democrats’ relative discipline on judicial nominations, Merle is still favored to join the bench by the summer.


--- [Natasha Merle] ---
Natasha Merle joined the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. (LDF) in January of 2016. She uses litigation, legislative, policy, and public education strategies to promote racial justice primarily in the areas of criminal justice, political participation and educational opportunities. Natasha is lead counsel in LDF et al. v. Trump et al., an ongoing lawsuit brought pursuant to the Constitution and Federal Advisory Committee Act that challenges President Trump’s creation of the racially discriminatory “Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity.” Natasha is a member of the litigation team in Greater Birmingham Ministries v. Merrill, a challenge to Alabama’s discriminatory voter photo ID law. In 2016, Natasha led LDF’s Prepared to Vote campaign, a non-partisan election preparedness campaign. Natasha is also a member of the Buck v. Davis team, which successfully represented Mr. Duane Buck in the United States Supreme Court. She co-authored the briefs that resulted in the reversal of Mr. Buck’s death sentence. The Court found that Mr. Buck’s death sentence was poisoned by the “toxin” of unconstitutional racial bias, which had been introduced at his capital sentencing hearing. Prior to joining LDF, Natasha completed two years at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP as an LDF/Fried Frank Fellow, working on complex commercial and civil rights litigation. She previously clerked for the Honorable John Gleeson of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York and the Honorable Robert L. Carter of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Natasha has also worked as an Assistant Federal Public Defender in the Capital Habeas Unit of the Federal Public Defender for the District of Arizona, where she represented death-sentenced individuals in their federal habeas proceedings and before the Arizona Clemency Board. Natasha was also an Equal Justice Works Fellow/Staff Attorney at the Gulf Region Advocacy Center, where she represented individuals who were facing re-sentencing on capital murder convictions. Natasha graduated cum laude from New York University School of Law and with Honors from the University of Texas at Austin with a B.A. in Government and Spanish. She is a member of both the New York and Texas State Bars.


--- [Natasha Merle - Alliance for Justice] ---
No content


--- [Support Natasha Merle] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
