=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ken Kesey - Wikipedia]
In 1957, Kesey was second in his weight class at the Pacific Coast intercollegiate competition. [1][13][14] He remains in the top 10 of Oregon Wrestling's all-time winning percentage. [15][16]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ken_Kesey

[Ken Kesey | Media Wiki | Fandom]
In 1957, Kesey was second in his weight class at the Pacific Coast intercollegiate competition. [4][10][11] He remains "ranked in the top 10 of Oregon Wrestling's all time winning percentage."
URL: https://media.fandom.com/wiki/Ken_Kesey

[Ken Kesey - Wikiwand]
In 1957, Kesey was second in his weight class at the Pacific Coast intercollegiate competition. [1][13][14] He remains in the top 10 of Oregon Wrestling's all-time winning percentage. [15][16]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Ken_Kesey

[Author Ken Kesey's 20-year-old son, Jed, died Monday of... - UPI]
Jan 23, 1984 · During his student days at the University of Oregon from 1953 to 1957, Ken also was a wrestler, finishing second in the 167-pound class at the Pacific Coast Intercollegiate Championships for the ...
URL: https://www.upi.com/Archives/1984/01/23/Author-Ken-Keseys-20-year-old-son-Jed-died-Monday-of/7363443682000/

[Kesey and The Ducks - Rosamond Press]
Oct 27, 2025 · In 1957, Kesey was second in his weight class at the Pacific Coast intercollegiate competition. [1] [13] [14] He remains in the top 10 of Oregon Wrestling’s all-time winning percentage. [15] [16] A member of Beta Theta Pi throughout his studies, Kesey graduated from the University of Oregon with a BA in speech and communication in 1957.
URL: https://rosamondpress.com/2025/10/27/kesey-and-the-ducks/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ken Kesey - Wikipedia] ---
Kenneth Elton Kesey (; September 17, 1935 – November 10, 2001) was an American novelist, essayist, and countercultural figure. He considered himself a link between the Beat Generation of the 1950s and the hippies of the 1960s.
Kesey was born in La Junta, Colorado, and grew up in Springfield, Oregon, graduating from the University of Oregon in 1957. He began writing One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in 1960 after completing a graduate fellowship in creative writing at Stanford University; the novel was an immediate commercial and critical success when published two years later. During this period, Kesey was used by the CIA (supposedly without his knowledge) in the Project MKULTRA involving hallucinogenic drugs (including mescaline and LSD), which was done to try to make people insane to put them under the control of interrogators.
After One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest was published, Kesey moved to nearby La Honda, California, and began hosting "happenings" with former colleagues from Stanford, bohemian and literary figures including Neal Cassady and other friends, who became collectively known as the Merry Pranksters. As documented in Tom Wolfe's 1968 New Journalism book The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, some of the parties were promoted to the public as Acid Tests, and integrated the consumption of LSD with multimedia performances. He mentored the Grateful Dead, who were the Acid Tests' house band, and continued to exert a profound influence upon the group throughout their career.
Kesey's second novel, Sometimes a Great Notion, was a commercial success that polarized some critics and readers upon its release in 1964. An epic account of the vicissitudes of an Oregon logging family that aspired to the modernist grandeur of William Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha saga, Kesey regarded it as his magnum opus.
In 1965, after being arrested for marijuana possession and faking suicide, Kesey was imprisoned for five months. Shortly thereafter, he returned home to the Willamette Valley and settled in Pleasant Hill, Oregon, where he maintained a secluded, family-oriented lifestyle for the rest of his life. In addition to teaching at the University of Oregon—an experience that culminated in Caverns (1989), a collaborative novel by Kesey and his graduate workshop students under the pseudonym "O.U. Levon"—he continued to regularly contribute fiction and reportage to such publications as Esquire, Rolling Stone, Oui, Running, and The Whole Earth Catalog; various iterations of these pieces were collected in Kesey's Garage Sale (1973) and Demon Box (1986).
Between 1974 and 1980, Kesey published six issues of Spit in the Ocean, a literary magazine that featured excerpts from an unfinished novel (Seven Prayers by Grandma Whittier, an account of Kesey's grandmother's struggle with Alzheimer's disease) and contributions from writers including Margo St. James, Kate Millett, Stewart Brand, Saul-Paul Sirag, Jack Sarfatti, Paul Krassner and William S. Burroughs. After a third novel (Sailor Song) was released to lukewarm reviews in 1992, he reunited with the Merry Pranksters and began publishing works on the Internet until ill health (including a stroke) curtailed his activities.




--- [Ken Kesey | Media Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Ken Kesey - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Author Ken Kesey's 20-year-old son, Jed, died Monday of... - UPI] ---
SPOKANE, Wash. -- Author Ken Kesey's 20-year-old son, Jed, died Monday of injuries received when a van carrying the Universityof Oregon wrestling team skidded off an icy road and down a steep embankment. He was the second wrestler to die in the weekend accident in the hilly country near Pomeroy in a remote section of southeastern Washington. Kesey's parents and other members of his family were at Deaconess Medical Center in Spokane when the wrestler died of head injuries. Ken Kesey was an early hero of the 1960s counterculture whose use of LSD was chronicled by Tom Wolfe in 'The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.' He is the author of 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' and 'Sometimes a Great Notion.' During his student days at the University of Oregon from 1953 to 1957, Ken also was a wrestler, finishing second in the 167-pound class at the Pacific Coast Intercollegiate Championships for the 1955-56 season. The author also sponsors an annual 'Ken Kesey Writing Scholarship,' which is awarded each year to a wrestler. While his sons were growing up, he set up wrestling mats in the barn on their farm at Pleasant Hill, Ore., and worked out with them. Jed Kesey wrestled mostly at 150 pounds this year and had a 1-7 record. Deaconess upgraded the condition Monday of two other wrestlers from critical to serious condition. Two others were in satisfactory condition at St. Joseph's Hospital in Lewiston, Idaho. Three other coaches and athletes were discharged following treatment for injuries. 'A tragedy like this puts athletics into proper perspective,' said Oregon athletic director Rick Bay. 'We're very sorry to learn of Jed's passing and we wish to express out heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. All we can do now is continue to pray for the two boys that reamin in serious condition.' 'What do you say?' asked Coach Ron Finley, who kept vigil in the intensive care unit where his wrestlers were being treated. 'It's the most tragic thing I've every gone through,' said Finley, who was not with the team with the mishap occurred. In Eugene, the Oregon campus was somber following the mishap. A memorial service was planned, but the time and place had not been set. School officials said a moment of silence would be observed before Thursday night's Oregon-Arizona basketball game at McArthur Court. The Oregon wrestling team was traveling from a Friday night match at Pendleton, Ore., to a Saturday night meet against Washington State at Pullman when its van slid off an icy, hilly road. The vehicle catapulted over a guardrail and smashed 185 feet down a steep embankment, coming to a halt against a barbed-wire fence. 'It rolled over twice and just about tore the top of the van off,' said State Patrol Lt. Gary R. Hallett. 'All the occupants were thrown out.' The van, carrying 10 wrestlers and two coaches, was driven by assistant coach Dean Dixon, who said he was traveling about 45 mph when he hit an icy patch and lost control. Dixon, who was treated for minor injuries and released, was 'devastated' by the accident, said Bay. 'It's so ironic, really,' he said. 'He has a reputation with the team of being an old mother hen and being so careful with everything involving the wrestlers.' Lorenzo West, 20, Portland, Ore., died Saturday en route to a hospital. In serious condition at Deaconess were Larry Topliff, Sandy, Ore., and Travis Hancock, Pendleton, Ore. In satisfactory condition at St. Joseph's were Garett Clayton, Felton, Calif., and Daemon Knight, Pistol River, Ore.


--- [Kesey and The Ducks - Rosamond Press] ---
Capturing Beauty Above is a group photo of Duck wrestlers. One of them is Ken Kesey. All are wearing Duck Gear with a image of the Oregon Ducks. How could the million dollar promoters of Duck Tie-Dye, with Oregon Duck football game miss this? Ken attended the UofO on a football scholarship. John Madden also played football for the Ducks. Ken was an aspiring author, and became a published writer. He would support all my writing endeavors, that includes owning and operating a alternatives newspaper. John Presco President: Royal Rosamond Press While attending the University of Oregon School of Journalism and Communication in neighboring Eugene in 1956, Kesey eloped with his high-school sweetheart, Oregon State College student Norma “Faye” Haxby, whom he had met in seventh grade.[2] According to Kesey, “Without Faye, I would have been swept overboard by notoriety and weird, dope-fueled ideas and flower-child girls with beamy eyes and bulbous breasts.”[10] Married until his death, they had three children: Jed, Zane and Shannon.[11] Additionally, with Faye’s approval, Kesey fathered a daughter, Sunshine Kesey, with fellow Merry Prankster Carolyn “Mountain Girl” Adams. Born in 1966, Sunshine was raised by Adams and her stepfather, Jerry Garcia.[12] Kesey had a football scholarship for his first year, but switched to the University of Oregon wrestling team as a better fit for his build. After posting a .885 winning percentage in the 1956–57 season, he received the Fred Low Scholarship for outstanding Northwest wrestler. In 1957, Kesey was second in his weight class at the Pacific Coast intercollegiate competition.[1][13][14] He remains in the top 10 of Oregon Wrestling’s all-time winning percentage.[15][16] A member of Beta Theta Pi throughout his studies, Kesey graduated from the University of Oregon with a BA in speech and communication in 1957. Increasingly disengaged by the playwriting and screenwriting courses that comprised much of his major, he began to take literature classes in the second half of his collegiate career with James B. Hall, a cosmopolitan alumnus of the Iowa Writers’ Workshop who had previously taught at Cornell University and later served as provost of College V at the University of California, Santa Cruz.[17] Hall took on Kesey as his protégé and cultivated his interest in literary fiction, introducing Kesey (whose reading interests were hitherto confined to science fiction) to the works of Ernest Hemingway and other paragons of literary modernism.[18] After the last of several brief summer sojourns as a struggling actor in Los Angeles, Kesey published his first short story (“First Sunday of September”) in the Northwest Review and successfully applied to the highly selective Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship for the 1958–59 academic year. The Truth Behind Oregon’s Tie-Dye Uniforms, Grateful Dead Connection The No. 6 Oregon Ducks have caught the attention of the country with their uniforms once again, as the Ducks recently released new “Grateful Ducks” jerseys with tie-dye accents, inspired by the Grateful Dead. Fans might be wondering where connection exists between the popular band and the Ducks, and it lies in famous author and Oregon alumni Ken Kesey. Charlie Viehl | Oct 21, 2025 Oregon Ducks uniforms nike phil knight Grateful Dead Dante Moore tie-dye Autzen Stadium Wisconsin Badgers Jerry Garcia Dan Lanning recruiting nil / oregon football twitter/x In this story: Oregon Ducks discuss what they learned from their loss The No. 6 Oregon Ducks have caught the attention of the country with their uniforms once again, as the Ducks recently released new “Grateful Ducks” jerseys with tie-dye accents, inspired by the Grateful Dead. Fans might be wondering where connection exists between the popular band and the Ducks, and it lies in famous author and Oregon alumni Ken Kesey. Kesey, author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, graduated from Oregon in 1957. Kesey got to know the Grateful Dead before they became the world-famous artists as the band traveled across the country with Kesey, performing at “Acid Tests.” Before the Ducks’ matchup with the Wisconsin Badgers on Saturday, the University of Oregon released a video explaining the rel between Kesey, the Grateful Dead, and the city of Eugene. Because of the band’s connection to Kesey, the Grateful Dead eventually performed in on Oregon’s campus over 20 times with 10 concerts inside of Autzen Stadium. Oregon Ducks uniforms nike phil knight Grateful Dead Dante Moore tie-dye Autzen Stadium Wisconsin Badgers Jerry Garcia Dan Lanning recruiting nil / Oregon Ducks Football “The 1960s. As the nation tested limits, two University of Oregon visionaries were already thinking beyond them, Bill Bowerman and Ken Kesey. One was redefining sport. The other, how people saw the world. Bill Bowerman, a track coach with a soldier’s discipline and a scientist’s curiosity, was tearing apart running shoes in Eugene, searching for ways to make athletes faster. Together with former Oregon track runner Phil Knight, they set out to reinvent the running shoe, a partnership that later became Nike,” the narrator in Oregon’s video reads.. “Around that time, Ken Kesey, a UO alum and author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest and Sometimes a Great Notion was leading a different kind of experiment. Accompanied by the Grateful Dead, Kesey helped create gatherings that reimagined how people experience art, community, and consciousness, sparking a movement at the end of the ‘60s that would define the decade.” Oregon news and research writer Ed Dorsch compiled a timeline that explains the events of the Grateful Dead alongside Nike and the success of Oregon’s athletics. MORE: AP Top 25 Poll Chaos After Ranked Upsets For Miami, Ole Miss, Texas Tech MORE: Biggest Winners, Losers From Oregon’s Resounding Win Against Rutgers MORE: Oregon’s Dan Lanning Gives Positive Injury Update on Kenyon Sadiq After Rutgers Win In 1972, “the Grateful Dead perform a benefit concert for Springfield Creamery, the makers of Nancy’s Yogurt. The Creamery, owned by Ken Kesey’s younger brother Chuck and his wife Sue, was in financial trouble. The Sunshine Daydream Concert, as it came to be known, was held on the current site of the Oregon Country Fair in Veneta, Oregon,” wrote Dorsch. “The concert also marked the beginning of a lasting bond between the Kesey family, the Grateful Dead, and the Eugene community,” Dorsch continued. Oregon Ducks uniforms inspired by the Grateful Dead / GoDucks / X Oregon unveiled the “Grateful Ducks” uniforms on Sunday, as a tie-dye green and yellow pattern is accented on the jersey numbers. The shoulder patches feature the Grateful Dead’s iconic skull logo with the crack repurposed into a Nike swoosh. The Ducks’ helmets will also have a special decal of dancing ducks on the back, an ode to the rainbow dancing bears that have become associated with the band. The partnership between Oregon, Nike, and the Grateful Dead is one of the latest initiatives enjoyed by the football program. Earlier in the year, the Ducks wore “Shoe Duck” uniforms as a tribute to the founding of Nike by Knight and Bowerman. Merchandise available to purchase has been made available to fans, and the jerseys are also set to go on sale before the game. The Duck Store’s John Chambers shows off some of the new apparel featuring The Grateful Dead, er Duck, on sale now. / Chris Pietsch/The Register-Guard / USA TODAY NETWORK via Imagn Images Published Oct 20, 2025|Modified Oct 21, 2025 Charlie Viehl is the deputy editor for the Oregon Ducks, Colorado Buffaloes, and USC Trojans on SI. He has written hundreds of articles for SI and has covered events like the Big Ten Championship and College Football Playoff Quarterfinals at the Rose Bowl. While pursuing a career in sports journalism, he is also a lifelong musician, holding a degree in Music and Philosophy from Boston College. A native of Pasadena, California, he covered sports across Los Angeles while at Loyola High School and edited the Gabelli Presidential Scholars Program’s magazine at BC. He is excited to bring his passion for storytelling and sports to fans of college athletics. vs Football Nike’s NIL Deals with Oregon Stars Dante Moore, Dakorien Moore Are Different Football Oregon Ducks Can’t-Miss Tie Dye Uniforms Are Recruiting Magnet Dominic DiSaia ’97 Bill Walton May the Spirit of Bill Walton Reign Over Oregon Basketball Darren Perkins June 4, 2024 Editorials OK, let’s get it out of the way. Yes; his quirky, rambling, meandering and obscure commentary during basketball telecasts could be extremely frustrating — evoking reactions ranging from cute to cursing, endearing to eye-rolling, joy to “you’ve gotta be joking,” and from a sense of comradery to cursing. And, for some, simply anger. But, for many of us, doesn’t that sound a hell of a lot like the state we love? So, in a sense, Bill Walton was Oregon. I pulled Mr. FishDuck from his fun where he learned how a Fanatics Sportsbook NC Promo Code will help you maximize your potential earnings if you are adding stakes to any game. He had a number of memories about Walton, being a lifelong Oregon resident. During telecasts Walton had an odd habit of randomly referencing his 1977 championship Portland Trailblazers teammates. Maurice Lucas, Lionel Hollins, Johnny Davis and Larry Steele to name a few. I would assume the vast majority of the viewing audience had no idea who those players were. He was talking to a minority of us Oregon sports junkies almost as an inside joke, to which I would find myself in exasperation, responding, “Bill! Nobody knows who Dave Twardzik is!!” And that encapsulated my general feelings toward Walton. I loved him and liked his color commentary, but sometimes he could drive me crazy. Walton was an old hippie. He loved the Grateful Dead, riding his bike, nature, and Oregon: the state that adopted him after he brought its only professional sports championship in 1977. Walton came from Southern California, but Oregon was in his DNA. He had the good sense of putting others ahead of himself over the “me first” glamour of his native Los Angeles. This way of life served him well on the basketball court as he was one of the best passers and most unselfish players the game had ever known. The 1977 final pitted the Trailblazers against the Philadelphia Seventy-Sixers. As an egoless entity, the Blazers epitomized “team.” They played like graceful figure skaters on the hardwood where passing, off-the-ball cuts, and basketball IQ were emphasized over scoring and individual accolades. Coach Jack Ramsey would famously run practices where the ball would not touch the floor as the elegant sound of squeaking sneakers rang like Mozart in the ears of basketball purists. In contrast, the Sixers were a motley crew of outlaws (think Jailblazers) with immense flash and talent led by the Michael Jordan of the 70s, Julius “Dr J” Irving. The Sixers were favored and had more individual talent than the Blazers, but wherein the sum of the whole was greater than that of the individual parts for the Blazers, the opposite was true of the Sixers. In today’s era of NIL and transfers it is difficult to put together a true team as the “me first” mentality rules the day. Because of this, Dana Altman has had a difficult time putting together a true “team” the past few seasons, as the Ducks have always been at their best when they fielded a team as opposed to a group of self-directed individuals. The Luke’s (Jackson and Ridnour) under coach Ernie Kent, the 2017 Final Four team, and the Payton Pritchard era were all about team-first. Altman is known for getting his teams to play their best toward the end of the season. Only a true team can grow together throughout the season and continually improve. At 65, and with an outstanding sophomore floor general leading the way in Jackson Shelstad, it feels as if Altman has at least one more great run of “team basketball” left in him at Oregon. As long as he can get them to play Bill Walton basketball. Oregon, the humble, quirky little state tucked away in the Pacific Northwest not known for its flashiness (minus uniforms) but rather for a collection of underdogs and misfits like Ken Kesey, Steve Prefontaine, and Phil Knight who rise to do great things. And that is what Oregonians relish the most. Whether you loved or disliked Walton’s public persona, it was easy to recognize his joy, kindness, self-deprecation, and giving nature. At the very least, and above all else, you could see that Walton was a good person. R.I.P. big man, and the piece of Oregon that passed away with you. Darren Perkins Spokane, WA Top photo credit: From X Natalie Liebhaber, the FishDuck.com Volunteer Editor for this article, works in technology in SLC, Utah. Here. Here is the testimonial of Alessandra Hart who co-founded BEAF: “A small group of our friends decided to create the Berkeley Experimental Arts Foundation and we rented a space on College Avenue in Berkeley which we made into a theater, calling it Open Theater & Gallery. Pop Art was just coming in, Andy Warhol was experimenting with it on the East Coast. We opened with a pop art exhibit and a theater piece my husband, Roland Jacopetti, wrote.” The Loading Zone played at the event these artists and filmmakers put on at the Open Theatre. Here is the missing link between artists and Psychedelic Music that was an intended to be a sideshow to a multimedia happening aimed at expanding your mind, with, or without LSD. We are talking about ART, that would soon be pushed aside, put on the back-burner while The People got it, that they were Art Pieces, living sculptures on a new and very fluid stage. The Muse was everywhere, and in, everyone. No one wanted to look at art anymore and grove on the artist, his or her………..TRIP! Five hundred people were now living galleries with ten million paintings flashing inside their minds every second. There were light shows, but, who gave a rat’s ass? Artists were being – humored! Psychedelic Filmmaker, Ben Van Meter, is accused on the Village Voice of being on a – ego trip! Huh? I love seeing that world I took part in through the eyes of a fellow artist. We exist in real life, and not up on that Music Stage that keeps cranking out musical notes like bubbles in hope the players can get lucky and strike it rich. Two days ago Peter Shapiro called me. We talked about the time he put on a happening in the backyard on Miles. He and Tim O’Connor wanted to celebrate my marriage to Mary Ann Tharaldsen. Peter invited Swami X to bless us, even conduct a second Hippie Wedding, but, he was a no-show. Instead we got our Jewish neighbor, who we placed on a platform in between the Japanese arch I built in the center of an octagonal garden. Peter told all his friends to bring a loaf of cheap whitebread as an offering to the Swami. Many brought flowers and placed them around Swami Swartz who did a great job doing a Swami-Rabbi with Vaudville Jesus routine. When we lined up to get our share of the loaves and a blessing, Swami Swartz bid us to kneel, hold out our hand, and then slap five pieces of Wonderbread into our palms. In the background we had five beautiful young women doing Tai Chi in their white outfits. Their shadows were cast upon the doors of the old garage while multicolor dots of wonder opened new levels of wedded bliss and awareness. When Stefen Eins came to the rescue of the Queen of the Wends, a creative hand was stretched across America. Chris was backstage for all the Zone’s events. For several months Stefan and I have talked about doing a Broadway Musical based upon the music of Love, and an aging Woodstock Nation. But, with the discoveries I have made in the last several days, we are looking at THE GENESIS of Psychedelic Rock Be-ins that connect to Warhol’s Factory and filmmakers. What is truly astounding, Alessandra Hart, read from Revelations during these Mind Alterations. Consider the apocalyptic art of my ex-wife who was married to Thomas Pynchon, whose movie is due out in December. Pynchon is a One Man Band who might want to consider giving proceeds from ‘Inherent Vice’ to Bruce Baille so he can preserve this important film history. Jon Presco “I also borrowed a white noise machine, which was supposed to help you meditate and get into other brain wave patterns. We also had taped layers of music, playing simultaneously, and added voice readings from the Book of Revelations from the Bible. It was a multimedia event. We called it “Revelations.” The Open Theater in Berkeley is most famous for debuting Big Brother and The Holding Company, and for being one of the incubators of the Trips Festival, which we have covered elsewhere. Indeed, another blogger discovered a listing in the Oakland Tribune Theater section that listed one of (if not the) first advertisements for “Psychedelic Music” at the Open Theater. Following the lead of this blogger, I reviewed the Theater Sections of The Oakland Tribune for 1965 and 1966, and managed to piece together the brief, but interesting history of the organization. I apologize in advance for any serious Theater scholars who have stumbled across this, as my focus is more on the musical side of the venture. The Oakland Tribune first mentions the Open Theater on July 21, 1965. Founders Ben and Rain Jacopetti had formed a group called the Berkeley Experimental Arts Foundation “for the presentation and study of new art forms and trends”. After opening on September 30, 1965, the Open Theater began presenting shows every weekend, and sometimes on weekdays as well. The first listing above (under the heading Little Theaters, from the Sunday, November 7, 1965 Tribune) was typical of their Fall 1965 offerings. There was new theater on Fridays and Saturdays, and on Sunday they had “Sunday Meeting,” a spontaneous meeting. Sometimes music was advertised, as presented by either Ian Underwood or The Jazz Mice, Underwood’s trio. It was the Sunday Happenings that seemed to be one of the precursors to The Trips Festival. According to Charles Perry’s 1984 book Haight Ashbury: A History, there was apparently multi-media performances, with lights and nudity (too much nudity for San Francisco’s Broadway), music by Underwood and others, an Art Gallery featuring contemporary art, and so on. The bass player for the Jazz Mice was artist Tom Glass, known also as Ned Lamont, and a painting of a huge comic book-style painting of his graced the lobby. In January, the open theater begins to shift somewhat more towards music. The second (split-up) entry is from the Sunday, January 9, 1966 edition of Oakland Tribune. The Sunday night happening is followed by an apparently musical performance by Day Wellington and The Poor Losers. The next weekend is January 14 and 15, when The Loading Zone and Big Brother make their debuts, in evenings of “rock and roll and theatrical improvisation”. The weekend of January 21-22-23 was the Trips Festival, in which the Open Theater participated. They surely contributed some multi-media, and Ian Underwood’s Jazz Mice played the first night. On the Saturday night (January 22), Underwood and others presented an avant garde musical performance. The last day of the Trips Festival, however, the Open Theater has its Sunday Meeting as usual, although perhaps some of the regular participants may have been a little worse for wear. The last clipping is from the Sunday January 23 edition of the Tribune, noting the Happening, and also upcoming musical events. They are Thursday January 27, 1966 Ramon Charles McDarmaid and Don Buchla, Movies by Bruce Baille Don Buchla had constructed the Thunder Machine for Ken Kesey’s Pranksters, a sort of electronic percussion device. Friday, January 28, 1966 Performances by Congress of Wonders and Ned’s Mob, introducing new material. Congress of Wonders were a comedy trio, also regulars at the Open Theater, who did hip comedy and performance art (they later released a few albums). Ned’s Mob are unknown to me. Saturday, January 29, 1966 Rock and Roll dance featuring The Loading Zone This would have been The Loading Zone’s third performance, to our knowledge, the first two having been two weeks earlier at the Open Theater (Jan 14) and then at the Trips Festival (either Jan 21 or 22). The Loading Zone was based in Oakland. The Open Theater continued to present performances through early March. They presented a John Cage piece on February 4 and 5 (reviewed by the Tribune) and a few other shows. Ian Underwood was now mentioned as the Musical Director, and per the March 12, 1966 Tribune it appears that Ben and Rain Jacopetti had left, and the Open Theater was under new management. However, by the end of March the Open Theater had closed. Ian Underwood said the Theater group was looking for a different space, but it was not to be. http://www.chickenonaunicycle.com/Loading%20Zone.htm http://berkeleyfolk.blogspot.com/2009/09/2976-college-avenue-open-theater.html Alessandra Hart testimonial But I’ll begin by telling you about myself and my experiences and evolution, starting from ’65 – ’66. I was in an artists’ crowd. I was in my mid-20’s and we had a child. The Beatles were already a big thing and everyone’s hair was getting long, our clothes were casual and mostly we wore jeans. I had created a kind of light show that was participatory and people came to our attic to experience it and “have their minds blown” – a kind of opening up that expanded one’s consciousness. We used light show techniques with an overhead projector, slide projectors, moving film, and I had convinced a Palo Alto scientist to lend me a new contraption they were experimenting with, a strobe light that flashed in a sequence that appears to stop action in movement if other lights are low or off. It turns out that if it synchronizes with certain brain patterns, it can stimulate an epileptic seizure, but that wasn’t known at the time. I also borrowed a white noise machine, which was supposed to help you meditate and get into other brain wave patterns. We also had taped layers of music, playing simultaneously, and added voice readings from the Book of Revelations from the Bible. It was a multimedia event. We called it “Revelations.” A small group of our friends decided to create the Berkeley Experimental Arts Foundation and we rented a space on College Avenue in Berkeley which we made into a theater, calling it Open Theater & Gallery. Pop Art was just coming in, Andy Warhol was experimenting with it on the East Coast. We opened with a pop art exhibit and a theater piece my husband, Roland Jacopetti, wrote: “The Hard Con, the Soft Con, and the Unvarnished Shuck” a kind of spoof on how we felt the older culture had “conned” the people. This period of time was when the first bumper stickers that said “Question Authority” started to appear. We questioned EVERYTHING! We wanted to know the truth: the truth inside the truth! Not what we’ve been told but what we can experience directly and KNOW to be true! Out there the scientists were getting ready to travel to the moon! They were taking care of the exploration of outer space – we were interested in “inner space.” Soon other friends who were experimenting in their own fashions and we decided to “take our show on the road” so to speak. Bill Graham, was like an “impresario”. He brought you Woodstock later on. He was the manager of a small pantomime group called The Mime Troupe. Our Open Theater and the Mime Troupe were accustomed to small audiences of maybe 10 or 12 people, just to give you a sense of scale of the popularity of little theater at that time. Ben Van Meter was an experimental or “underground” film maker and was also working with overhead projections and light shows that happened in somebody’s garage. Stewart Brand later created the Whole Earth Catalog. He had a show he called “America Needs Indians.” Ramon Sender had an experimental music center he called the Tape Music Center. Chet Helms was finding himself, but he had begun to work with other musicians and he arranged for his group, the Family Dog (which I think is where Janis Joplin started out, I’m not sure), Grace Slick and the Jefferson Airplane, and the early group who evolved into The Grateful Dead to play rock ‘n roll. We were going to perform our “Revelations”. Somebody got a big trampoline and the Olympic athlete, later novelist and spiritual author Dan Milman performed on it with the strobe light trained on him. Stewart knew Ken Kesey, author of One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, a popular novel at the moment. Ken showed up with his busload of Merry Pranksters who had been on the road with something they called The Acid Test. Together we rented the Longshoreman’s Hall, a large hall in the San Francisco port area, and planned a big multi-dimensional, multi-media three-day event we called The Trips Festival. A “trip” was anything that surprised you, opened your mind, or brought you unexpected delight or illumination. It was set for January of 1966. As it turned out, it was a bigger “trip” than any of us could have imagined. Just before the event while we were getting the last things in place, maybe half an hour before ticket sales were to begin, Bill Graham who was taking care of the money, went outside to see that everything was right there. He came back in, wildly waving his arms, eyes big, and he said, “They’re lined up around the building out there, waiting to get in!” None of us had experienced crowds like that before, and we were more than a little wide-eyed. Thousands of people attended in those three days. Unknown to me, Ken Kesey had spiked the punch with his “Acid Test” formula and many people had taken the test. It very quickly became apparent that while all our theatrical “trips” were certainly interesting enough, that the music was the thing that actually held the energy. It could provide the people a means of self-expression and the possibility to work out their various energies in a positive mode, while still interacting with other people. It was the unifying element; essential. Bill Graham understood this so immediately that before the three days were over, he had gone out to find a big hall to rent on a regular basis. He tied up the Fillmore which became THE place to hear this kind of music. Later the Avalon Ballroom also opened. The Rock scene was born! The Trips Festival was the first time any of these people had come together in a place where they realized there were others like them who were interested in the exploration of the same kinds of things. The alienated and small cliques of friends were suddenly part of a culture that could create change! Everyone was filled with excitement and possibility. In time this event became credited with opening the gateway to the 60’s, to the Rock and Roll era, to the San Francisco counter-culture scene. In 2008, last fall, there was a documentary that premiered at the Mill Valley Film Festival called simply “The Trips Festival”. It includes original footage of film taken in ’66 at the Trips Festival and interviews with people who were responsible for creating it. There’s a short image of me looking very hip, a black and white photo from the time. Women were kept in the background in those days. We’d never allow it now, but the film kept to that custom. It’s an hour-long regular DVD and can be purchased from its maker through the website of the same title. Springfield Augurs Ken Kesey I am beginning to believe Springfield got it right! I went and looked at the un-finished mural of Ken Kesey. This is a much better job of Branding then the Homer Simpson Mural. It has a literary and historic theme. There are titles of books that Ken perhaps read and mentioned? ‘Grapes of Wrath’ is one. When I moved to Springfield Oregon eight years ago, I ran into Virginia Hambley’s boyfriend at a city hall meeting. Afterwards Michael took me for a mini-tour downtown. We stopped in front of the Emerald Art Association that was closed. I came back the next day and talked to the director Cheyrl Liontino. I had a vision. I told her I saw Springfield surpassing Eugene in the Arts and it becoming a Mecca for European artists. As I headed out the door, Liontino held out her arms and blocked the door. I became a member of the EAA located on Main Street a block away from Odd Fellows Lodge building that is hosting the image of Ken ‘The King of the Bohemians’. I went back to look at the finished chalk art and beheld a tribute to Alphonse Mucha the Bohemian Czech artist who inspired me when I rendered my painting of Rena Easton. I asked for and received a photo of her profile. When I first mew of Stefan Eins, I suggested he talk to Austrian officials about the large canvas we have that might belong to the Austrian People. I ran into a member of my city government and we talked about the Kesey mural. I told her I would do a report and submit it to the City Council after I attend the unveiling on Friday. I am going to catalogue the murals of Springfield. The first one may have been on the side of the first Springfield Creamery building where I visited my childhood friend, Nancy Hamren. In 1987 Nancy got me on the bus, and an invite to the Dead and Dylan concert at Autzen Stadium. I hiked up Mt. Pisgah with Sue and Chuck Kesey. Nancy and I went to Ken’s reading of his book he co-wrote with students. Nancy and I lived in a commune with the Zorthian sisters whose father was influenced by the famous muralist, Thomas Hart Benton. This statement brings all the creative elements together, and puts them on the wall that is now the compass point of a cultural milestone for Springfield. “Benton fits the familiar mold of Jack London, John Steinbeck, Ernest Hemingway–the roughneck artist, the temperamental genius disguised as a Joe. But beneath the denim and swagger, there lurks something else: a soul, Benton said, ‘impregnated with a deep sense of the value of life, of the beauty of the basic human emotions and the sadness of the drama of human striving.’ -Verlyn Klinkenborg, Smithsonian, April 1989, p. 100. As a Master of the New Augury, I found the auspices of this mural, to, augur well. One of the chalk entries was titled ‘It Started With A Crack In The Pavement’. What can I say? Jon Presco Looked, viewed etc. at ‘Tale of Two Cities’ – amazing……Thank you for having put it together!!! Stefan A hour ago I got off the phone with Stefen Eins who Christine said I conjured up and brought into her life when she really needed a friend. He told me his people are Bohemians who lived in the Czech Republic. I told him my grandfather, Wensel Anton Braskewitz (Prescowitz) was born there What the chalk line is, is CONJURING. It may represent the coming together of the artistic ideas of two Bohemian Artists, they meeting on the edge of the two-dimensional cage that most framed artwork is, or isn’t in some rare cases. This is one of those rarities. With the suggestion of color, I experienced an optical illusion where I saw this plot covered in faint pastel colors, yellow, blue, green. My mind was filling in the blank area. It took some effort to stop my hallucinating and see what was really there. What I would eventually see, is that this work transcends, teleporting, telephoning, telescoping, and, teledesign, a word I just made up. It could be delayed-telepathy where the message has been sent, after the means to receive the message has been launched. “Then he had the Japanese and Chinese artists living there. They built their beautiful little Japanese paper houses up through the woods. What beautiful country! It looks like a mess now, but it was beautiful then — a natural and wild landscape — and the Japanese had carefully created a meandering little stream, Japanese style, beautifully arranged with gardens and little rockeries near the poet’s. You know their expertness in creating beauty. They’d made this beautiful place where they had their barbecues. At that time the poet’s barbecues were always run by his Japanese friends. We’d have raw fish and soy sauce — really delicious. Then, always the particular barbecue for which the poet was famous — he had beautifully peeled willow switches on which were arranged rounds of onions and meat — which you held over the fire until cooked to your taste. Then we’d go up to a little art colony scattered throughout the woods in their beautiful paper houses. These houses were well made, beautifully constructed, but all the doors and windows except the frames were made of paper. We’d go in, take our shoes off and sit down and we’d watch the artists work, or they’d display work to show us. Some were Chinese, most of them were Japanese. In 1848 William Makepeace Thackeray used the word bohemianism in his novel Vanity Fair. In 1862, the Westminster Review described a Bohemian as “simply an artist or littérateur who, consciously or unconsciously, secedes from conventionality in life and in art”. During the 1860s the term was associated in particular with the pre-Raphaelite movement, the group of artists and aesthetes of which Dante Gabriel Rossetti was the most prominent:[2] As the 1860s progressed, Rossetti would become the grand prince of bohemianism as his deviations from normal standards became more audacious. And as he became this epitome of the unconventional, his egocentric demands necessarily required his close friends to remodel their own lives around him. His bohemianism was like a web in which others became trapped – none more so than William and Jane Morris.[3] Above is a very large painting at the University of Oregon museum, titled ‘The Last Audience of the Habsburgs’ whom all descend from Jeanne de Rougemont. This painting was discovered rolled up in a bank vault here in Eugene Oregon. It had been smuggled out of Austria when Hitler put a bounty on Empress Zita’s head. The Empress receives war orphans ushered into her presence by a famous Austrian women’s Liberationist. Zita and her family were smuggled to America with the help of Aristides de Sousa Mendes, whose kin owned the “Jews land” in South Carolina my kindred purchased. The Mendes are Sephardic Jews kin to King David. The Habsburgs held the title ‘King of Bohemia and Hungary, and fought a war with Louis Kosseth who was a good friend of Jessie Benton. Kossuth was a Freemason, as was Alphonse Mucha whose huge canvases were also smuggled out Nazi Germany that had claimed Austria and the Czech Republic. Drew’s great grandfather, Colonel Thomas Hart Benton, the nephew of the Senator of the same name, saved Albert Pike’s library during the Civil War. “Among his many other accomplishments, Mucha was also the restorer of Czech Freemasonry.[12]” I will now research if Kossuth and Mucha knew each other. The Hungarian Freemasons made up Jessie’s and John’s bodyguard. The Habsburgs were great Patrons of the Art. The Fremont’s held a salon at Black Point where Mark Twain sent the night. Here is a Masonic artistic Legacy that has come down to my niece, Drew Benton, the daughter of the Getty Museum muralist, and cousin of the artist Thomas Hart Benton, the mentor of Jackson Pollack. So much for Rosemary calling her four children “Bohunks” and chortling. “He who laughs last – laughs best!” Did you know Marie Antoniette was a Habsburg? I own a Habsburg lip. I now understand what the Seer meant, when she saw people coming into my being and “take! Take! Take!” I powerless to stop them for reasons unknown. Well, it appears much of my family history is a Masonic Secret – many partake of – but me, until, recently! Mucha’s canvases look likes scenes out of Star Wars, they as big as a movie screen! Now, what does my kindred Carrie Fisher got, in regards to the screenplay about Christine Rosamond Benton – and her Artistic Legacy! All’s well, that ends well! Jon Presco Copyright 2012 http://nancys-yogurt.myshopify.com/ http://www.nancysyogurt.com/index.php/springfield-creamery http://www.nancysyogurt.com/index.php/springfield-creamery/our-history http://www.nancysyogurt.com/index.php/springfieldcreamery/nancy http://www.oregonlive.com/O/index.ssf/2010/03/sometimes_a_great_yogurt_nancy.html The year was 1970 and next door to the creamery, the Keseys opened the Health Food and Pool Store. A mural outside depicted a fun-filled utopia, complete with a rainbow, a man in the moon, a smiling sun and dancing milk jugs. Inside, not far from the pool table, bulk foods, whole grains, herbs, candles and, of course, Nancy’s Yogurt, filled the shelves. Chuck Kesey smiles slyly and his eyes glint as he describes the store as “a real culture shock to Springfield.” Healy, the fellow who bought the bakery next door, remembers that the place lit up whenever Ken Kesey, who died in 2001, rolled up in his Cadillac. He and a few of the Merry Pranksters, as those in his entourage were known, would hop out, shoot pool and raise the sort of high-energy ruckus that fueled their radical reputation. That reputation and the impact Ken Kesey had on 1970s youth culture gave Nancy’s Yogurt a nudge, or, as Gilbert Rosborne puts it, “The Kesey name gave it hippie star power.”. Rosborne was a University of Oregon graduate student who delivered Rolling Stone magazine in Portland and Seattle. He recalls sitting outside the creamery chatting with Chuck Kesey when he wondered aloud: Why not drive a truckload of Nancy’s Yogurt to that long-hair haven, the San Francisco Bay Area, and try to sell it? He needed a partner and asked a Mill Valley, Calif., acquaintance — a guy as sharp at auto mechanics as he was with a harmonica — to join him. Rosborne and his new partner, Huey Lewis, called their venture Natural Foods Express. They bought old delivery trucks and Lewis tuned them until they purred. The two men took turns driving the long slog between Springfield and the Bay Area, Lewis blowing tunes on the harmonica as they traveled. And the Bay Area devoured Nancy’s Yogurt. “Rock’n’roll, natural foods, pot. We were gonna create a whole new world,” says Rosborne, who lives north of San Francisco, in a Larkspur, Calif., home he and Lewis once co-owned. The men dissolved their business partnership around the time Lewis’ band, Huey Lewis and the News, hit it big in the 1980s. These days, Rosborne delivers wine for a living, but he still fills his fridge with Nancy’s Yogurt.”The main thing I got out of it,” he says, “was good digestion.” Nancy Van Brasch Hamren brought her grandmother’s recipe to Springfield Creamery in the late ’60s when she started as bookkeeper. She still works in 2010 as office manager. Nancy Van Brasch Hamren had a recipe. Her health-conscious grandmother made yogurt, and so did she during the months she lived on Ken Kesey’s farm near Eugene. Hamren, a lanky, soft-spoken Californian, ran in circles simply psychedelic with history. She lived in San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury district from 1966 to 1968, the bookends to 1967’s Summer of Love. Her boyfriend’s sister was married to Jerry Garcia, the Grateful Dead’s shaggy-haired lead guitarist. And they all knew Ken Kesey — from his books, “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest” and “Sometimes a Great Notion,” and from the infamous, drug-juiced parties known as Acid Tests, which he hosted and promoted. When Ken Kesey traveled to Britain to work with the Beatles in 1969, Hamren and her boyfriend moved to Oregon to look after his farm. When Kesey and his family returned, she needed a new pad and a job. Down at the creamery, his brother, Chuck, needed a bookkeeper. He and Sue hired Hamren, and they started talking yogurt. The time was right. The place, too. Eugene and Springfield brimmed with hippie bakeries, granola makers, co-ops and natural-food stores. College kids and others living there moved beyond white bread long before the mainstream pondered crafting diets around fresh, local, organic food In 1972, when the company was struggling, Chuck Kesey asked his friends in the Grateful Dead if they would play a benefit concert. Hand-drawn posters advertised the event for $3 in advance or $3.50 at the gate. The creamery turned Nancy’s Honey Yogurt labels into concert tickets. On August 27, more than 20,000 free-spirited Deadheads rocked the sweltering afternoon away in Veneta, west of Eugene. The creamery raised from $12,000 to $13,000, enough to stay in business. http://www.rexfoundation.org/2014/09/01/historic-springfield-creamery-t-shirt-supports-rex/ Now immortalized for posterity as Sunshine Daydream, the Grateful Dead’s August 27, 1972 concert in Veneta was one for the history books on many fronts — especially because it kept the Springfield Creamery alive. So we’re delighted that the Creamery is celebrating this epic event with a classic T-shirt, celebrating the day A Rock Band Saved A Yogurt Company, with the proceeds going to Rex. (Order yours here!) Explains Sheryl Kesey Thompson, “The T-Shirt evolved out of a longtime desire to offer a ‘give back’ to the Grateful Dead of some type, as we honor and remember the fork in the road that the ’72 concert had for the Creamery. We also looked for something to offer when folks, intrigued by the Nancy’s/GD connection, asked, ‘Do you have a copy of that Nancy’s label/ticket from the Sunshine Daydream Show?’ or ‘Can I get a copy of the poster?’” They didn’t, but last year’s Sunshine Daydream release led to creative thinking, and voila. Share this: Royal Rosamond Press The Battle For Ken Kesey Square If the Ducks had not lost last night, there would be plans for a parade and a event in Ken Kesey Square that is used once in awhile by normal Americans. Tear gas was used in Ohio on victorious Ohio State fans, while our vagabond lesbians are repeatedly given the keys to the city – with camping permit! While Doc is hit over the head and launched into Faux PI land in Venice, MiSchelle McMindes mulls over her script Ken Kesey sold her while drunk, he needing to buy a dozen cases of beer for himself and The Twelve he has holed-up in neighborhood near the campus where a traditional riot is held in honor of John Belushi and Animal House. You see, the 60s are not over – or the 70s! What is happening, is, the only real Beat Writer is having no affect on Beat Society, because the Literary Mafia is giving Pynchon all their attention I, and Ken should be getting. This is because they are glad the Hippies are dying, they longing to be revelant, again. You can’t read books on Acid! The leader of the ‘I Killed Hippie’ movement is Charles Shields who does a hatchet job on Kilogore Trout in his ‘And So It Goes’. I want this written on my tombstone; “And, now you know!” I’ve decided to keep Kilgore Trout alive by writing trashy movie scripts under a new pseudonym. My first script will be about a very ugly and large lesbian artist who is paid to be the bodyguard a blonde bombshell from Santa Monica who is afraid she will be slipped a Micky Fynn at a Frat party and become the latest victim of Date Rape. The bodyguard is The Taster. Being a obvious lesbian, she is not subject to being smoozed&boozed. Being a brute, a real monster at 6ft. 4 weighing 290 pounds, it is hard to dose her down, and stop her from heading to the door with beauty safely tucked under her arm. I will title this tale; “Beauty and the Bodyguard” I will give Ms. Ashley Hewes some credit in the trailer. “Ashley Hewes Alley keep me posted… I am willing to be a body guard and it would be legal [i have a DPSST cert] I am even willing to meet and hang out with ms Burch.” The blonde babe’s boyfriend will be based upon another infamous Eugene character. Ashley-Ambrose Holtham-Keathley the Third is the last of the Swells who tools around campus in a MG. The point I am making, is Pynchon plays by himself with his SAFE imaginary friends, while I am on the FRONT LINE about to take a icepicked in the ear by a gang of outraged Lesbians the Eugene Police are afraid of. They are impervious to teargas. Back to Mr. McMindes who is a real liscenced Private Investigator with a movie script based upon a novel written by a certified Beat Author. “Life is unfair!” Jon Presco MiSchelle McMindes and Mike Hagen piled into Hagen’s Ford Mustang and drove 325 miles west from Eastern Oregon to see Ken Kesey. Both had high hopes as they set out from Pendleton to Kesey’s farm, about 15 minutes southeast of Eugene. McMindes was a 26-year-old go-getter from Grand Island, Neb., a brunet beauty-pageant scholarship winner recently turned private eye. She had an idea for a movie about the quintessential Oregon sporting event—the Pendleton Round-Up, a famed annual rodeo that began in 1910. McMindes had spent months researching the Round-Up’s history and collecting photographs before teaming up with Hagen, a 46-year-old television and commercial sound engineer in Pendleton. All they needed was a screenwriter, and Hagen knew just the guy—Kesey. Hagen had been Kesey’s fraternity brother at the University of Oregon. And in the 1960s, he was one of Kesey’s Merry Pranksters as well as a co-pilot on the LSD-fueled cross-country odyssey that Tom Wolfe chronicled in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. Kesey was a natural to tell the Round-Up story. He was an Oregon literary legend and countercultural icon who knew how to spin a yarn. And he had time on his hands. They came to him with the tall-but-true tale of how a Nez Percé Indian named Jackson Sundown, a popular black cowboy named George Fletcher (known in 1911 by a derogatory nickname), and a white Tennessee bronco-buster named Jonathan E. Lee Spain competed together during the 1911 Round-Up. A tale long familiar to Pendleton natives, it blended racial enlightenment far ahead of its time, Oregon lore and rodeo hijinks. They called the project Last Go Round. By January 1984, McMindes and Hagen had what they thought was a deal with Kesey. And nine months later, they had a Kesey script. Then things got messier than a loose bronco. Nearly 25 years after their visit—and seven years after Kesey’s death—Hagen and McMindes (who changed her name sometime after 1992 to Michele Francis and who modeled, in and out of private-investigator garb, for Playboy in 1987 and 1988) are locked in a federal court battle in Portland. They’ve been sued by Kesey’s 71-year-old widow, Faye, and her four adult children for rights to the screenplay. On Monday morning, Aug. 25, in a Portland courtroom far from both Pendleton and Kesey’s bucolic Pleasant Hill farm, U.S. Magistrate John V. Acosta questioned attorneys for both sides to clarify their positions before he made a ruling or sent the case on to a jury trial. It was the latest development in a case that has already produced dozens of filings and hundreds of pages of depositions weighing more than 10 pounds. “The fact of the matter is that [Francis and Hagen] never acquired the rights to the screenplay,” Kesey family attorney David Aronoff said as Faye Kesey sat quietly behind him. Michele Francis’ lawyer, Michael Kratville, struck back: “We got the screenplay, he got paid for it. Done deal.” For all the contentions, the case boils down to this: Faye Kesey is suing Francis and Hagen for the rights to a work of art that hasn’t been made yet, a movie that one Hollywood producer estimates could be filmed on a modest budget of $10 million to $12 million. But he says its allure would attract big-name actors because of Kesey’s notoriety. Since 2000, at least three groups of producers—one from Los Angeles, another from Seattle, and Portland’s own Wieden & Kennedy ad agency—have toyed with optioning the story. And Francis’ attorney, Kratville, tells WW that several Hollywood producers are still awaiting the outcome of the case before buying the movie rights. “You’ve got a lot of people in the L.A. area that have some interest in this outcome,” he says. “And if that interest didn’t exist, or at least if both sides didn’t think it existed, I don’t think we’d be here. I don’t think anyone would fight over just the right to put something on a shelf and say, ‘It’s ours.’” On this point at least, there’s agreement. “We did have people interested in doing a screenplay,” Faye Kesey said in a deposition on May 8. “And because the other people, namely the defendants, were claiming an interest in the copyright, that made it impossible to go forward.” Among the producers who’ve shown interest in making a movie of Last Go Round, the project has acquired mythic status. “If it ever got made, the making of it would be almost as interesting as the story itself,” says Los Angeles-based producer Stephen Fromkin, who briefly optioned the script from Francis in 2005. “It’s a really crazy intellectual property. It’s really amazing how many people have an illusion that they own a piece of it.” For a writer who’s been dead since 2001, Ken Kesey’s name still carries a hefty shelf life. On Aug. 19, Tom Wolfe’s Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test was reissued to celebrate its 40th anniversary, the first new edition of the book to appear in a decade. Portland director Gus Van Sant is in talks to helm a movie adaptation. The first biography of Kesey, by Robert Faggen, is scheduled to be published soon by Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Locally, in March, Portland Center Stage director Aaron Posner staged a critically and commercially successful adaptation of Kesey’s second novel, Sometimes a Great Notion. Kesey’s posthumous popularity is just one more chapter in a long series of aftershocks that followed an earth-shaking arrival at age 26 to the literary world with One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest. He followed that trick with an even better one: putting down the pen and starting a cultural revolution on the road. In 1964, immediately after Sometimes a Great Notion, Kesey recruited his “Merry Pranksters”—characters like Mike “Mal Function” Hagen, Ken “Intrepid Traveler” Babbs and Paula Sundsten (a.k.a. “Gretchen Fetchin the Slime Queen”) for a two-month trip that was part movie shoot, part provocative stunt, and the nation’s frenzied introduction to the psychedelic age. Crossing paths with everyone from Hunter S. Thompson to the Hell’s Angels and the Grateful Dead, Kesey cemented his status as what Wolfe called a “hipster Christ.” Along the way, while trying to edit his 40 hours of bus-trip footage, Kesey caught the movie bug. “Kesey abandoned prose as ‘archaic’ and set off to make The Movie,” says Mark Christensen, a Los Angeles writer and former WW staffer who’s completing a study of Kesey, Timothy Leary and other ’60s narcotics gurus titled Acid Christ for Schaffner Press. “He bought into the dream, which is the old cliché of Hollywood: What I really want to do is direct. In other words, he wanted into the movie business! This was in the wave of all that French New Wave shit, where people literally believed the novel was dead, and cinema was going to be the new medium. And Kesey bought that dream.” Then Kesey went home. After a five-month stint in jail for marijuana possession, Kesey moved with Faye into the family-owned 64-acre working dairy farm in Pleasant Hill. For the next two decades, he played host, entertainer and oracle to his many admiring visitors while writing short stories, founding the literary magazine Spit in the Ocean, teaching, and coaching wrestling. A Stanford grad who’d waxed philosophical with William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg, Kesey was also still an Oregon country boy. Visitors helped paint the bus, chop down trees, spread some hay, milk the cows. On his farm, with his rules, Kesey loved having the “home-court advantage,” says Gretchen Douglas, the former Paula Sundsten, the “Gretchen Fetchin” of the bus-trip days. He was the center of attention, a psychedelic Paul Bunyan. “He could be quite a charming, gracious host, as long as it was understood that he was putting on a performance,” says John Tillman, one of those visitors. “He would put anyone who showed up to work.” But Hagen and Francis were different. They came with a project. And if there was anything Kesey’s friends say he loved, it was a project—or, as Douglas says he liked to call it, “the current fantasy.” When Francis, Hagen and Kesey talked about their Round-Up story that December of 1983, Kesey dug it. “He was very friendly that day, and very cooperative…and almost childlike,” Francis recalls in depositions taken on March 20, 2007, for the lawsuit. “He was so excited about this story.” But Kesey was never one for paperwork. At the peak of his career, Kesey felt he had been burned in negotiations for the movie adaptation of One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest. He sued Michael Douglas, Saul Zaentz and other producers for $869,000, and won an undisclosed settlement. The flap left Kesey with a lifelong disdain for the mechanics of Hollywood. “Ken is a, you know, a kind of rebellious sort. You don’t push too hard,” Francis said in depositions. “I had been told by Mike Hagen on the way down there that Ken was notorious about refusing to sign contracts and being difficult in business arrangements, that he was very suspicious of any kind of attorneys.… One of the things he always said to me, he and Mike, ‘If you can’t make a deal on a bar napkin, you can’t make a deal.’” The deal Kesey struck with Francis and Hagen in a follow-up meeting at Kesey’s ranch on Jan. 8, 1984, wasn’t written on a bar napkin, but it might as well have been. The agreement, which Kesey typed up on personal stationery emblazoned with a picture of his acid-test bus Further, read in its entirety: Pleasant Hill, OR January 8, 1984 To Whom it May Concern: I have agreed to write a screenplay about bygone rodeo greats Jackson Sundown and Nigger George Fletcher, concerning their historic confrontation at the Pendleton Round Up in 1916 [sic]. The name of the production company that I am writing for is SUNDOWN FLETCHER INC. and the people I am dealing with are Mike Hagen and MiSchelle McMindes. [signed] Ken Kesey With its vague language and no price mentioned for Kesey agreeing to write a screenplay, this letter formed the core of a dispute that would last until Faye Kesey’s current lawsuit. Had Kesey drafted a work-for-hire contract, or was he just offering McMindes and Hagen first dibs on shopping around a piece of writing he owned? Immediately, it meant Kesey put aside work on his novel Sailor Song, and Francis and Hagen paid him $5,000, with another $5,000 to come when Kesey finished the script. By September 1984, Kesey had completed a rewrite and received his second $5,000 from Francis and Hagen, who had created a corporation called Sundown & Fletcher to fund and develop the project. “A lot of that money went towards a party they put on at the Round-Up,” says Tillman, who attended the bash. “That was quite a blowout. There were…people who just drifted through because they knew it was a great, big party.” The combination of Kesey’s relentless ability to self-promote and local newspapermen’s interest in a new Oregon-centric Hollywood film got Last Go Round a good bit of buzz in 1984. On Sept. 14, The Oregonian quoted Kesey as claiming that the 1985 Pendleton Round-Up might form the setting of a $10 million feature film with “cowboys, Indians and a story so good it stops the hand midway between the mouth and the popcorn box.” But behind the scenes, there were already problems, according to depositions in Faye Kesey’s lawsuit: Ken Kesey was less than a month into the first draft of his screenplay when his 20-year-old son, Jed, died in a January 1984 van accident on a University of Oregon wrestling trip. Kesey was devastated—and found himself unable to continue work on the screenplay. Kesey asked Hollywood producer Irby Smith to help with the writing. But Francis says Kesey’s behavior had become erratic. “Rest in peace and bless his soul, I liked Ken, but you never knew which Ken Kesey you were going to meet,” Francis says. “I once asked him—I asked him to return the money. He never did. Then we were back on board and we were promoting it and working together, very congenial. Then again it would fall apart again. It was really almost a manic-depressive sort of feeling project during those times.” Gretchen Douglas, the Merry Prankster veteran who continued to maintain contact with Kesey, tells WW that his behavior fit into a lifelong pattern. “This is Ken in a nutshell,” says Douglas, who now runs Island Cove Cafe and Market on Sauvie Island. “As soon as somebody else gets excited and has the potential to do it, his mind explodes, and he’s not interested anymore. Because he’s not in control. He’s a complete control freak.” Then there were rough meetings, like a mid-October 1984 sitdown that Kesey refused to attend. He sent Faye instead. (“He wanted no further involvement,” Faye says in depositions.) According to Francis’ depositions, Faye Kesey told Francis that she understood the screenplay had been donated to her husband. Francis strongly disagreed, and the meeting devolved from there. “It got shrill, it got real shrill,” Francis recalls. Faye Kesey says in depositions that her husband sent her to tell Francis that Kesey wouldn’t sign any contracts. “He thought they weren’t experienced,” she says. “He thought that the contracts showed a lack of understanding.” Another, bigger problem: It wasn’t a good script, either, many of those close to the project said. Francis says the quality was so poor, “I didn’t want to send it out.” “They didn’t have a shootable screenplay,” says Tillman, who was commissioned for rewrites by Katherine Wilson, a Eugene-based agent who marketed the screenplay in the early ’90s. “And saying it was ‘not good’ is putting it mildly. ‘Execrable’ would be more like it. It might have been an OK movie in the ’60s, a Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner kind of heartwarming, generational, unity kind of thing.” Francis stopped actively pursuing the project. Wilson optioned the finished script and shopped it around Los Angeles from 1990 to 1994. On March 24, 1994, despite never reaching an ownership agreement with Kesey, Wilson partnered with Francis to file a registration for copyright (a four-to-five-month process that allows legal claim on a work for up to 75 years after the author’s death) for the 1984 Last Go Round script anyway. They listed the name of Francis’ production company, Sundown & Fletcher, as the author. But Kesey had already moved on to another version of the Pendleton Round-Up story. In 1994, he and Ken Babbs—his old pranking partner from the acid-test days—turned Last Go Round into what would be Kesey’s last novel. That novel, Last Go Round: A Real Western, also contained a surprise for Francis and Hagen. In the novel’s foreword, which simply thanked “MiSchelle McMindes” as a name in a list of acknowledgements, Kesey wrote he’d known the 1911 Pendleton Round-Up story all along. “I first heard the story from my father when I was fourteen,” he wrote. “So my father told it, with the fire crackling and the beans bubbling…. A marvelous yarn.” Ken Kesey never made his Great Western. He died Nov. 10, 2001, at 66. After his death, Kesey’s lawyers transferred copyright of all his writings to his widow, Faye, and his four surviving children. The screenplay for Last Go Round and the novel were on that list, even though Francis and Wilson had filed a copyright for the screenplay seven years earlier. That discrepancy made Kesey’s Last Go Round script a volatile property to shop around in Hollywood, where producers understandably prefer screenplays free and clear of legal entanglements. Complicating matters further, potential producers who were interested in adapting the novel, like Wieden & Kennedy and Seattle-based Shadowcatcher Entertainment, also thought they needed rights to the screenplay, just to be safe. “We thought it was a stupid idea to take it on, because it was a minefield,” says David Skinner, managing partner of Shadowcatcher. “A legal minefield that we did our due diligence on and decided, as much as we love the story, we understood the business well enough to know that this would be a bad business decision…. Our conclusion was, the Kesey family needed to get their house in order before anyone could seriously look at a draft of that particular piece of intellectual property.” On April 21, 2006, Faye Kesey sued Michele Francis, Mike Hagen and Katherine Wilson for the rights to the Last Go Round script. In late 2007, Wilson settled all claims with the Kesey estate. She got $10,000 and the right to pursue a screenplay she had authored, called Blanket of the Sun, which followed the same Round-Up characters but took place five years later. In return, she agreed not to speak to the media about the case. No one else has signed a nondisclosure clause. But that doesn’t keep them from clamming up the moment they hear the phrase Last Go Round. Faye Kesey still lives on the Pleasant Hill farm, in a tin-roofed barn with a wooden University of Oregon wrestling sign on the front porch and two goats grazing in a nearby pen. When WW visited last week after several phone calls went unreturned, she declined comment. “I’d rather not,” she said. “I have to go pick up my grandkids. Maybe some other time.” Hagen lives on the outskirts of Eugene, where he deals with “real estate and rental properties.” After initially agreeing to meet with WW reporters, he stopped returning phone calls. No one answered the door at his cabin, where another Ford Mustang was parked outside. Francis lives in Omaha, Neb., where she founded and runs Light Inc., a company that designs entertainment and political marketing. She responded to calls through her attorney. On Monday morning, in the Federal Courthouse in Portland, U.S. Magistrate Acosta leafed through a paperback copy of the Last Go Round novel. He asked both sides to clarify their arguments before he considered their motions for summary judgment, which ask a judge to rule in one side’s favor without sending the case to a jury. “As long as there was nothing on the table, your honor, the Keseys were happy to do nothing,” said Michele Francis’ lawyer, Kratville, who flew in from Omaha. “Once we have a real movie deal on the table, boom! They’re out of the weeds, and we’re here.” Kesey attorney Aronoff, who arrived from Los Angeles, said Kesey’s publication of the novel proved his ownership of the material. “Mr. Kesey did the strongest thing he could do,” Aronoff said. “He published the novel. He called their bluff…and, in fact, he said, ‘Sue me if you think you own something.’ And they didn’t.” Judge Acosta said he would “get out a written decision as soon as we can, which is not all that soon.” Kratville said he expected that however the judge or a jury ruled, the case would be appealed to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. “I’d be shocked if that wasn’t the case,” he said. “This is just the kickoff of a very long football game.” A copyright lawyer unaffiliated with the case predicts Francis and Hagen will need to produce more than a one-page agreement with Kesey to win in court. “My guess is that the Kesey family would be well within their rights to say that, absent an express agreement about who was to get the copyright to the underlying screenplay, the delivery of the manuscript to these people for the sum of $10,000 does not mean that Ken Kesey necessarily parted with the copyright to the work,” says Bill Geny, a patent and copyright lawyer in Portland. “Unless the owners of this screenplay can prove that there was agreement that Kesey was selling the copyright along with the manuscript, then they’re gonna lose.” Kratville, Francis’ lawyer, tells WW his client was already in talks with two Los Angeles-based producers—Stephen Fromkin and Scott Maginnis—before Faye Kesey sued. “I think [they] felt very comfortable that we were the party that they needed to be talking to,” he says. Fromkin confirms this, and says he is still interested in the project. “The money we paid her probably allowed her to hire some lawyers,” Fromkin says. “The problem with it is the baggage. It’s amazing: There’s so many people who think they own it, and there’s so many people who really do have some sort of rights to the royalties from the property—be it the Kesey estate, Michele, Mike Hagen—but they all wanted control. The problem is, none of them know how to make a movie.” Shadowcatcher’s Skinner, who gave up on Last Go Round about four years ago, doesn’t expect to see a movie anytime soon. “The world loves a good western,” he says. “And Kesey you could market. I think it could be wonderful. This is one that we would love to take another crack at sometime, but only if it’s free and clear. I don’t know that that’ll ever happen in my lifetime.” Share this: Royal Rosamond Press Clandestine Kesey Square Revival “His desire to demonstrate his superior masculinity is linked to obvious male socialization patters. Cf. Oregon Duck rape scandal(s).” The quote above was written by John Monroe a close friend of Alley Valkyrie, Belle Burch, Anbrose Heltham-Keatley, and other SLEEPS advocates. John was arrested with Belle. John and Alley were instrumental in the ‘Kesey Square Revival’ that Alley said was over, but, it looks like I innocently stumbled into a clandestine revival led by Belle Burch. This is why she tried to incorporate my blog and book in their hidden agenda. Note the chalk on the m ground, the woman hiding her face from me, and the woman wearing a OCCUPY slogan on her hat. It appears that after their arrest this revival was rehashed in order to keep these anarchists visible. How many knew Belle was going to give me a call and set up a meeting? This is why she kept her people a secret from me. “We brought tables and chairs, played board games and read books, handed out organic produce and created murals throughout the square with sidewalk chalk.” This is why Belle wanted this video removed, and her subversive clandestine gang. These slanderers and extortionists were not protecting Belle, they were protecting their covert agenda. They needed me to fear for my life, lest I continue my investigation into why they went after me when I discovered Belle Burch had been arrested with members of the Kesey Square Revival. It appears there was a new plan just underway. I did not know I was the monkey wrench in the works. Belle and her backers, did. This is why they tried to destroy my reputation. They went too far when they attacked my mother and my family, and lumped me in with the Duck football players who were accused of rape. I was an innocent citien enjoying the square. I made a vieo that CAPTURED HELL. I will make sure the Kesey family is aware of these radicals who denied me freedom of the press. Note the woman who is hiding her face from my lens. Belle waves off her concern, but, comes over to check me out. When I tell her my blog if for the promoting and preserving the Bohemians and their lifestyle, she can’t believe what she heard and asks me for my number. I will now be contacting several attorneys in order to restore my reputation and make sure my Civil Rights are not violated again. “We wish to develop and retain positive relationships with those who work downtown, especially the food cart owners, and we don’t want to gather in Kesey Square if our presence directly interferes with their business. Additionally we refuse to allow the City to pit us against the food carts in a political fight, which would further distract us from our true goals. For this reason, the Kesey Square Revival will no longer take place until further notice.” LaGarette Blount was my neighbor. When he saw me trying to carry a mattress off the top of my car, he came down and helped me. He lifted it with ease, carried it up a flight of stairs, and put it in my bedroom. When I recognized him, I told him I want to return the favor by making a poster of his famous jump. When I called the athletic department, I gave him praise for helping me. After the incident in Boise happened. I saw him talking with three other players, I went downstairs and asked him if their were racial slurs involved, he said yes. LaGarette is doing well as a pro. Several months later, my direct neighbor, helped bring our neighbor Sandy up to her place after I picked her up from the hospital. I was so moved I called KVAL news. I wanted my fellow citizens to hear some good news about the Ducks because there was some arrests for drugs. When was going to a away game, he would always knocked on my door and ask me to watch over things. This including his stunningly beautiful girlfriend who was born in Austria. She had pale blue eyes and blonde hair and was a student at the UofO. They were deeply in love. One day I pulled into the complex and stopped to behold them embracing in the middle of the drive. I grew up in Oakland and had black friends. I missed the diversity. I felt homesick for a cosmopolitan city. My ancestors were San Francisco Pioneers. This was posted by John Monroe. HIs fear is dangerous, his illness is dangerous, his bigotry is dangerous. And I’m seeing just three people willing to put up a defense against that danger. And while obviously psychotic and seemingly paranoid as well, he is above all a threat to people in our community. I’d like to point out the following two quotes from Presco: “She’s the head of the dragon of fear! She should have not let me know that, because when I have to fight, I go for a head shot! Especially when the body is so co-denedant to Alley. Yesterday at 12:33pm” “Greg Presco She retreated in this chat. She bid you to protect her. How are you going to do that? She already lost. I am going to immortalize her along with Belle. No one can stop me. They will be famous.” Anyone acquainted with the subtleties of violent communication can see that Presco entertains death-phantasies regarding Alley and Belle. Every psychotic lone shooter imagines themselves and their target as dual immortalities — here Presco sees Belle and Alley as potential victims that can turn him into an Eternal Name. His desire to be an artist (fueled by his mother, who suppressed his sister’s talents so he could be the family star, see my post earlier in the thread for the links to demonstrate this) is his way of desperately seeking immortality as he gets closer to death. I imagine his belief that Alley wants Belle for herself has something to do with his own erotic phantasies, obviously still running just fine regardless of whether his genitals work. His desire to demonstrate his superior masculinity is linked to obvious male socialization patters. Cf. Oregon Duck rape scandal(s). HIs fear is dangerous, his illness is dangerous, his bigotry is dangerous. And I’m seeing just three people willing to put up a defense against that danger. And while obviously psychotic and seemingly paranoid as well, he is above all a threat to people in our community. None of the people coming forth to defend him or accuse Jeff, Puck and Rodolfo of bullying are offering any alternative. Little more than passive-aggressive PC victim blaming. Nothing Alley hasn’t been the target of before with regards to her homeless advocacy. And of course we’d all like for Presco to have a mental health options. But he’s a menace first, and mentally ill second. Presco, even if he is practically unlikely to do violence to Alley and Belle, clearly desires to do so. It is written all over the place. And obviously he is sick. But what is even sicker are the tepid defenses of his behavior and the disgraceful attacks on those few people offering a defense of two women being targeted by a creepy, menacing white cis male who is homophobic, sexist, anti-homeless and a bourgeoise classist. This is how rape culture is perpetuated day after day after day after… http://www.kval.com/news/local/88871417.html Excluding some from downtown excludes us all Guest viewpoint By Alley Valkyrie and John Monroe Appeared in print: Friday, Feb. 24, 2012, page A9 Throughout downtown Eugene, there are signs of revitalization. From the new Lane Community College campus to the Centre Court building a few blocks away, the construction is a welcome sight after years of empty pits and neglected buildings. However, it’s hard not to notice what downtown still lacks: Pedestrian traffic. Street artists. Somewhere to sit and eat lunch. Inviting common space to meet some friends. Eugene’s downtown is a stark contrast to other college towns across the country. Where are the shoppers, sightseers, artists, performers, musicians, sidewalk vendors and others who are the core of a vibrant city center? With all the recent investments in downtown, the one that seems most overlooked is an investment in community and public space. Common space is essential to a vibrant town center, and downtown Eugene lacks this crucial element. In the past, Kesey Square was one such common space. Now, it sits empty and neglected. Tables and chairs were removed from the square, and anti-loitering music blares from a tinny speaker 24 hours a day. That policy is typical of Eugene’s city planning. There is nowhere to sit throughout downtown. The benches were ripped from the sidewalks long ago and replaced with planters. Sitting on, or even leaning against, a planter in downtown Eugene can result in a maximum fine of $500. Many downtown business interests blame the lack of pedestrian traffic in part on the homeless and transient population. There is ongoing pressure on the mayor and the Eugene Police Department to “clean up” downtown, which results in what many view as systematic harassment of the disenfranchised population. Sitting on a planter, leaning against a building or even crossing the street at the wrong angle can result in a citation. Those cited for such offenses are almost exclusively the young, homeless and disenfranchised. Certain offenses, such as leaning on a building, can result in exclusion from the downtown core under the Downtown Public Safety Zone ordinance, which is scheduled to sunset this April unless the City Council decides to renew it. The safety zone was intended to keep chronic, serious offenders from the downtown core. Yet police officers recently attempted to exclude transients for minor offenses such as leaning against a building and possessing a small amount of marijuana. The ordinance creates a second penalty: The defendant is cited for a violation and also required to appear before a judge at a different time to challenge the exclusion, even before a conviction for the actual citation is reached in court. Exclusions often are decided against the defendant based on a single officer’s testimony. And if an exclusion is granted, excluded persons face immediate arrest if they enter the zone without permission from the court. For many who live and work downtown, the safety zone is emblematic of the types of attitudes and policies that are contributing to an unwelcoming and hostile atmosphere. A city center where some are made to feel persecuted and unwelcome inevitably feels unwelcome to all, and is detrimental to the intended goal of stimulating commerce and community downtown. Earlier this month, a collective of like-minded people came together in Kesey Square on a Friday afternoon to create the downtown we wish to see — a downtown that is welcoming, inclusive, and that respects the rights of everyone to congregate in public space regardless of economic status. We brought tables and chairs, played board games and read books, handed out organic produce and created murals throughout the square with sidewalk chalk. We created a welcoming space where everyone had somewhere to be and something to do, including some who have faced exclusion hearings as a result of the Downtown Public Safety Zone ordinance. The mere presence of people congregating in the town square drew curiosity, attention and praise from all around, and it demonstrated why a vibrant community presence is essential to a healthy downtown. We have gathered every Friday since, intentionally creating a space where anyone can come to read a book, play chess, eat lunch with friends, display and sell art, network with others, or rock out with a guitar. The hope is that our example will stimulate further cultural activity, community events and pedestrian traffic throughout downtown, but neither these efforts or any attempt at downtown revitalization truly will succeed if city government and law enforcement continue to promote laws and policies that focus on exclusion, harassment and profiling. Public safety is an obvious and legitimate concern. But it’s one that is best addressed through community involvement, responsible policing and personal accountability, not through excluding undesirables from the city center. Unless we can create and maintain a vibrant atmosphere downtown where everyone feels welcome and everyone’s rights are respected equally, the current attempts at revitalization never will bear fruit. Alley Valkyrie and John Monroe are organizers with Occupy Eugene and the Kesey Square Revival, a public space revitalization project focused on downtown Eugene. http://www.eugene-or.gov/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=1243 Two days ago I told Stacey Pierrot to remove the essay on the Rosamond Gallery webpage, written by Julie Lynch because it is ficticious and harmful to my career as a truly creative human being. In several yahoogroups I identify the source of the story where my late sister was forced to draw in a closet with a flashlight because Rosemary only wanted me to become a famous artist. When I stopped in the Rosamond Gallery in 1982, I found a stack of papers on the coffee table and read one. Here is what I posted on. “When I stopped by the Rosamond Gallery twenty years ago, I found a short bio on the coffee table. My jaw dropped when I read how at three and half years of age, Christine hid in the dark closet with a flashlight to do drawings. One evening I caught her competing with me, Mommy’s designated Artist, and I ran and got my Mommy dearest who dragged Christine from the closet and whipped her good with a coat hanger – while I danced with glee! Obviously Christine had recently seen the movie ‘Mommy Dearest’ and plagiarized it in order to destroy me, lest I consider painting again, for I had given it up! When I called her up and asked her why she put out such a lie, she said; “Oh, that was just a gallery promotion thing. You shouldn’t take it seriously. Besides, it was aimed at mother!” “I see! So you blow a hole through me to hurt Rosemary?” Christine had put our mother on the payroll, but had fallen out of her graces, and was fired!” “Christina questions her mother as to why she was adopted, and Joan mildly confesses that it was partially a publicity stunt. After Christina yells, “I am not one of your fans!,” Joan begins strangling her. Carol Ann and the reporter witness the attack and intervene. Joan sends Christina to Flintridge Sacred Heart Academy to punish her, under the strictest possible discipline.” SPRINGFIELD, Ore. — On Saturday morning, John Presco could hear the fear in his neighbor’s voice as she left a message on his answering machine. “Hello John,” said Sandy Maricle. “This is Sandy. Are you home?” Maricle needed someone to drive her to the hospital. “I’m in really severe pain in my leg and back,” said Maricle. With her sciatic nerve throbbing, Maricle barely made it to the car. “She scooted down on her butt, all the time her face is in agony,” Presco said. A few hours later, she was released from the hospital — but had no way to get from the car to her second-story apartment. That all changed when her neighbor, University of Oregon defensive end Terrell Turner showed up, picked Maricle up and carried her up the stairs. “It was a God-send,” Presco said. “I was relieved,” Maricle said. “It was like an angel.” “He was so kind and gentle and just the perfect good Samaritan,” Maricle said. It’s not the first time this Duck has done a good deed. A few weeks ago, another neighbor needed help carrying a TV up three flights of stairs. “We got it all the way up so thank God,” Turner said. Turner said the acts of kindness are inspired by his passion for his family in California. “I’m just making sure I can help out as if my mom was around to help,” Turner said. Now, he’s helping his extended family here in Oregon. “I think a lot of him,” Maricle said. Share this: Royal Rosamond Press 2 responses to “Clandestine Kesey Square Revival” - Belle’s Contact With Nisha and Marilyn | rosamondpressJanuary 18, 2015 at 8:49 amEdit[…] I can say this on the post you just made about me. I will wait for your response before I do. https://rosamondpress.com/2014/05/19/25716/ […]Reply Madden’s Fairmont Raiders Royal Rosamond Press now has a sports column….Madden’s Fairmont Raiders. There’s never been a Pro Team in the Emerald Valley. Perhaps we start thinking about having one. I did not watch the Oregon Ducks play in their Bowl Game, because….Their Bad fell out of their Duck Bottom. LaGarrette Blount was my neighbor and helped carry a mattress I bought up to my apartment. My other Duck neighbor, Terrel Turner, helped carry our neighbor, Sandy Maricle up to her apartment. I tried to save Ken Kesey’s shack located in Fairmont, that was platted by George Miller who must have visited his brother’s Bohemian retreat in Oakland where Jack London lived. It is said he is the Oyster Raider and source of the name ‘Raider’. What I am establishing a Football Club in the Lost City of Fairmont! The new Knight Arena is built on the grounds of Fairmont. We can have Bay Area bands play there. The LasVegas Raiders are playing this afternoon. If they win, they will be in the playoffs. Go Raiders! John Presco President: Royal Rosamond Press MICHAEL ARCHER : Tortured Soul: Confession of an Oakland Raider Fan “Sure, author Gertrude Stein had once said of Oakland: “There is no there there.” And yes, the town had, at first, wanted to call the team the Oakland Señors, a somewhat less-intimidating name than they later decided upon. And sure, the pirate logo they adopted was grounded in a bit of our town’s history, sort of. Although Oakland’s seaport had not been a haven for the more traditional dangerous, swashbuckling buccaneers, it was home to many nameless “oyster pirates,”–as described by native- son author Jack London—who were actually more like nocturnal, shellfish burglars. Adding to this embarrassment, the Raiders, like some poor relative, didn’t play a single game in Oakland their first two years, but in much-resented San Francisco, at Kezar Stadium, in Golden Gate Park, or Candlestick, when the haughty 49ers deigned to fit them in. But none of this magnified our civic inferiority complex, because there was now a professional football team with the word “Oakland” in its name. Pre-Woodstock Be-Ins and Concerts Posted on October 11, 2018 by Royal Rosamond Press Christine Wandel told me Steve Kupka of Tower of Power was she and Keith Purvis’s roommate on Grove Street in Oakland. Steve helped put together Huey Lewis and the News, and was friends with The Loading Zone who played at the Northern California Folk-Rock Festival. Christine, Keith, Tim O-Connor, and myself lived in a ten bedroom Victorian in downtown Oakland in 1967-68 with the Loading Zone. Most of our roommates are in this photo. Christine was backstage with Janis Joplin and picked up a brass bell that fell off a neckless she was wearing. Some accounts have Big Brother and the Zone playing together at these concerts that preceded Woodstock and Altamont. John Madden, Jim Bailey and a race through Eugene (i-5corridor.com) Oakland, Fairmont, and Harris Posted on August 14, 2020 by Royal Rosamond Press Kamala Harris is for Oregon and we are for Kamala. I was born and raised in Oakland and took part in this cities redevelopment. The Promoter of Fairmont Posted on February 4, 2019by Royal Rosamond Press The Lost Promoter of Fairmount March 17, 2014 George Melvin Miller was titled ‘The Prophet of Lane County’. Lane County was named after Joseph Lane who ran with John Breckenridge for the White House. John is my kindred via John Preston who is kin to Jessie Benton Fremont who authored her husband’s journal about his expedition into the Oregon Territory. Joseph wrote a letter to Rose O’Neal, a Confederate spy. It is alleged Joseph helped Joaquin Miller become the editor of the Eugene City Democratic Register, a pro-slavery newspaper. However, there is no proof of this, or, Miller was for the Confederacy. Quite the contrary. Joaquin Miller worshipped the ‘Pathfinder’ who was the first Presidential candidate nominated by the Republican Abolitionist Party. Miller made a folly to Fremont on his property in the Oakland Hills above where my great grandfather, William Stuttmeister, had a farm. William built about forty homes in Fruit Vale, a city that was later incorporated into Oakland. This rock monument supposedly marks the spot where Fremont first got a glimpse of the Golden Gate. Joaquin wrote a book called ‘City Beautiful’ and appears to be part of that movement. I suspect his brother George was also, because he lay out the plan for two town, Florence, and Fairmount. Fairmount was in the hills above Eugene between 27th. Ave, and the Willamette. The Mathew Knight Arena is built upon land that once belonged to George. Was George inspired by his visits to ‘The Hights’ as Joaquin called his Mecca for California Artists and Poets? The testimony on George’s nameless tombstone, reads “Promoter Fairmount & Winnemucca to the sea, by Oregon, Lewis & Clark, D.A.R” What does this mean “Winnemucca to the sea”? In my novel I write about my 1950 Dodge breaking down in this desert town located on Route 66. When I got home and on my computer, I read about the building of a from the desert to the sea. But, instead of going to Florence as George Miller intended, this road ended up in Crescent City. The Promoter’s dream, had missed the mark. He died not knowing – they almost got it right! Folks who believed in George’s dream tried to get a marker honoring him on the Siuslaw River Bridge that Miller also promoted – while he was alive! Miller objected, and I assume left instructions to not include his name on his marker – just his two dreams! If you don’t know a man’s dream, then, you don’t know the man! Later, someone placed a marker at George’s feet. I planted two Petunias by the Miller markers. I had traded some items at Isabella’s Garden in Brownsville for seven plants. I saluted George’s Dream that I compared to Fremont’s. Here lie the unsung ‘Pathfinder’ who likened himself to Lewis and Clark. I had meant to declare myself a Newspaper Man, but, remembered when I came upon a fire in the town of Coburg. It was deliberately set by the fire department. I was in shock to see this beautiful Victorian going up in smoke. I talked to two fire fighters about why the town did not save it. They told me they tried, but, no one wanted it. I am going to investigate, because, I am a reporter for Royal Rosamond Press, a newspaper registered in Lane County. I then walked into a antique store and asked the proprietor if she had a spindle for sale. She took me into the back room and showed me three spinning wheels that were once owned by an old woman who recently suffered from three strokes. I tried to get information about this woman, but, was not given her name. After seeing a incredible photo of her ancient mother, spinning, the Legend of Sleeping Beauty overcame me! Alas, I had found her, she not able to communicate after her strokes! In a comatose state, her dream is taken to an antique store, it all in pieces. I am upset, because her history is about to be lost! Did she live in that house that was being burned down? Did she know the Millers, and the Dreamer of Fairmount, the Lost City that is no more, it swallowed up in that ongoing disaster – Eugene City Planning? Sleeping Beauty was named, Rosamond, my mother’s maiden name. There is Fair Rosamond, and a Floral City by the sea. There is Belmont, a city cofounded by my great grandfather in California. The Cogswell-Miller home in Eugene is surrounded by Rose Trees, Rhodadendrons! The next day I went to East face of Skinner Butte and looked at the two homes that are associated with John Cogswell and his family. John is the unsung Founding Father. For two weeks I have been taking on the housing system and have talked with Eugene City Manager, Jon Reus, about plans for the University of Oregon to tear down houses in a historic neighborhood. I will meet with a agent for a large real estate company about Homeless Vets and a way to get poor folks into homes. This includes Students. http://247wallst.com/economy/2014/03/29/how-student-loans-are-a-big-drag-on-the-economy/ Colleges and Banks work together to Front-run your children’s dreams. They pool young folks together with the promise of a education, a good job, and a nice home. Then the money lender swoop in and put them in debt for life! We have to turn this around. Get our children in their own home – and then they go to college with a reverse loan! You don’t have to fatten up the bankers to send your kids to college. Just send them to me! I will give them the bottom line on ‘The Dream’ I will lead them like Gandalf against the Orcs. I will be talking with this real estate agent about creating a virtual reality real real estate land, a real Farmville, called ‘Brownsville’ and ‘Fairmount’ founded by George Miller, the brother of Joaquin Miller who read his poems before royaty and was invited to have dinner with the Pre-Raphaelites. I am not just authoring the next Ring Legend, and I living it! Radical plans to stop rich overseas residents who live outside the EU buying British houses – as well as tight restrictions on them acquiring “newbuild” properties as investments – will be published in a report by a leading rightwing thinktank on Monday. After finding the neglected tombstone of George Melvin Miller, a story ran on the news about cottages and possible barracks being torn down on Columbia Terrace in Eugene to make way for a large building that will process food for the University of Oregon. I am certain these residences sit upon land that was once owned by George Miller, and his partner, University of Oregon Professor, John Straub. This might constitute the first partnership between the UofO and residential land development which in itself is historic and should be preserved because this relationship has been controversial and needs to be studied. If this study is conducted after the homes are torn down, then there will forever be a gaping wound for the future to see. George Miller platted Florence, and was the promoter of this fair city by the sea. George was the promoter of the Winnemucca to the Sea highway which is connected to the famous Route 66. But, more stunning than this, there is much evidence George was inspired by his brother who had a home in the Oakland Hills he called ‘The Hights’. Here was an outdoor salon for poets and artists who came from all over the world. Joaquin Miller planted thousands of three in the bare hills from where you could see the city lights of San Francisco. There were cable cars on rails, like the rails you can still see making their way up the hills of Fairmount to Hendrick’s Park and the Rhododendron gardens. Miller and Joaquin promoted the Rhododendron Festival in Florence. Joaquin co-founded the Bohemian Club that met in the redwood groves near the Russian River. Here famous authors and artist met once a year. Jack London and George Sterling were promoters of the Bohemian Life. They made Carmel by the Sea what it is today. My famous sister, Christine Rosamond, has a gallery here. My late sister married into the historic Benton family who fought to keep the Oregon Territory out of British hands. My grandfathers founded the city of Belmont south of San Francisco. The Stuttmeisters had an orchard just below the Hights. Joaquin would carry my father in his lap when he went with my grandmother to SF on the trolley. My kindred built forty new homes on new streets they named after trees. Did George meet these developers we see having a picnic in the redwood groves in the Oakland Hills. When we were young the Presco children would call Juanita Miller on the phone and pretend we had a broken heart. George’s niece was known as the ‘White Witch’ and gave advice to the sick at heart. I lived at the Stoneridge apartment on 19th. and Harris for twelve years. I would take walks in the nearby hills and feel right at home. I now wonder if George borrowed the architecture of Oakland, and transplanted them to Fairmount. If so, then we are looking at a historic link between the Bay Area and Eugene that needs to broadcast rather than diminished. Then I went to look at where Eugene built his log cabin. My late adopted son, Hollis Williams lived across the street in a unit reserved for Homeless Veterans. For fifteen years Hollis worked at Agra Pac, and could not get hired after it close down. H took me to a company picnic held in a park. Hollis was a Dreamer. This is why he was loved by many. He would crawl out from under a bridge where he slept many a cold night, and walk into Safeway, he all smiles, he already talking about his dream he wanted to belong to everyone. When it was certain he would be getting some Social Security money, he wanted to buy me some Disney Stock from a broker in the mall. He also wanted to invest in Doug Hennesy’s unfinished movie we were an extra in. Two months after Hud-Vash got him into a apartment, Hollis died. Being homeless for ten years was listed as one of the causes. It was Hollis who talked me into opening an account at Selco. I used to title H “The Real Mayor of Springfield” because he always knew your name, and greeted you with a smile. When I was in Selco last Thursday, I was greeted by the winning smile of Kate Young who had a table set up for the company she works for, Windemere Real Estate. I sat down and told he about my dream that was hatched in Brownsville the day before. She got onboard and furthered my inspiration down the road. When I learned Windemere has a foundation that helps the homeless, I suggested we meet again. You can see Kate’s video below, the last one. While filming at the Butte, a Veteran of the United States Air Force, came outside and was talking about the two eagles he just saw. They were flying in formation, side by side, then, one peeled off. The Dream……………….lives on! Jon Presco Reporter for Royal Rosamond Press Copyright 2014 “Our Mission For the past 25 years, the Windermere Foundation has donated a portion of the proceeds from every home purchased or sold towards supporting low-income and homeless families in our communities. What started in 1989 as a grassroots foundation serving families in need in Washington State, has grown to encompass ten states and has raised over $26 million for programs and organizations that provide shelter, clothing, children’s programs, emergency assistance, and other services to those who need our help the most.” http://www.windermere.com/foundation Fairmount The Residential Architecture in Eugene Oregon, 1850 to 1950, Multiple Property Submission (MPS) was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2000. Portions of the text below were adapted from a copy of the original nomination document. [†] Adaptation copyright © 2011, The Gombach Group. John Madden and Godzilla Run I want the spirit of John Madden to be the Hovering Spirit Head at the first – Godzilla and ZARDOZ Run For The Roses. John Madden, Jim Bailey and a race through Eugene (i-5corridor.com) Wow, I sign this post made in 2016, Vincent Rice – five years before I discovered my uncle is kin to Edgar Rice Burroughs! I’m going to talk with Niel about opening a Tarzan Museum in Springfield. Vincent Rosemond Rice GO GOD-ZILLA! GO ZARDOZ! P.S. There will be The Ugly Evil Penis Costume Contest, with a All Girl Chase in order to bring back those Good Ol Frat Boy Days! I want Jim Belushi to be the MC. P.S.S. Someone just informed me John Madden wrote ZARDOZ after Elfish Wood Saviors took him on a sacred Mushroom Hunt! Wow! Was John doing psychedelics – years before Kesey? Is it possible John lead the way – and turned Ken on to shrooms? Wow! This investigator reporter – is hot on the trail – of The Lost Truth! No wonder why he was able to outrun Bailey! The Godzilla Run Posted on September 2, 2016 by Royal Rosamond Press THE BIG bad boy is back! Yes, that’s right true believers, the King of the Monsters returns to the silver screen to again trample Tokyo into dust in “Godzilla Resurgence.” “Alley Valkyrie May 9 near Portland, OR Well, I just picked a fight with quite the unstable psychopath. May not have been the most sensible thing to do, but it should definitely get interesting… I am now going to author a book, with a movie in mind titled……….. THE GODZILLA RUN It’s about a small town that listens to a Mad Man who suggests they stage a Godzilla Run to boost the Arts and General Culture of a very hip town in Oregon, named Aliceland after Lewis Carrol who camped on the town site with The Poet of the Sierras, Joaquin Miller. They had met at the home of Dante Gabriel Rossette, the Pre-Raphaelite. My Godzilla Run takes place in Alton Baker Park. We purchase a giant float of Godzilla, and place giant speakers along the run. When the wee people hear his roar, and see him coming above the trees, they start running for their lives – with glee! I found the top photo in the news this morning. This image is perfect! This Visionary thanks you – Great Muse! “Ruuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuun!” George Miller platted Aliceland, an experimental city that made its grand entry into the ‘City Beautiful Movement’. It was considered the most progressive city on the West Coast, until a board was formed to plan The Godzilla Run – event. To everyone’s surprise, Marilyn Reed, the president of the Little Old Lady Gospel Choir wielded most of the power in Aliceland, and, she was on a – MISSION FROM GOD – ZILLA! “THIS KIND OF THING GOES AGAINST OUR MISSION AND WE WILL PROTECT OUR MISSION STATEMENT BY WHATEVER MEANS NECESSARY.” What emerges, is Aliceland is a haven for bigoted racists of all color, who own really backward ideas, and, if anyone gets in their way, they are going to receive a death threat. The State of Oregon is shocked. These politically correct folks look like old hippies, young anarchists, and cool Jazz Men, but, in their heart they own much hatred for New Ideas especially when they are GREAT IDEAS. “We only want small, puny ideas in our town! We want things to fail. That’s why we gave the Homeless Hoard of Whoville carte blanch to hold a faux Art-In at Ken Kesey Square, every Friday. That’ll keep out the real Artists – darn damn it! You see, the alleged Bohemians of Aliceland have been waging covert cultural warfare with one another for twenty-five years. There are only so many Music Gigs, and Art in the Park events – to go around. Aliceland has it Hatfields and McCoys. If you are not a member of an Extended Family, you are going to find yourself sitting on a pole outside city limits, all tar and feathered. The real hip folks are quietly moving to Springtucky the neighboring town once famous for Redneck Loggers that are now gone. “Please! Do not tell the others you are here! Can we buy you some empty canvases?” Mad John finds himself on a collision course with Marilyn Reed, who found Jesus again, and is wanting to replicate the Religious Bliss she experienced when she was sixteen. Her mother took her to three Billy Graham meeting at the Los Aneles Coliseum – with her boyfriend, John. Mother and Daughter expected John to go down and be saved. After he excused himself to go to the bathroom, he never returned! When she called his home the next day, his sister told Marilyn John has joined the Peace Corp and is in the Land of Zulus helping them build a reservoir. Not believing a word Christine Rosamond said, she went to John’s house, and knocked. When the door opened, Rosemary thrust a bloody crucifix in Marilyns’ face, and hissed; “This is a Catholic household. Go away – and stay away – you brazen Baptist hussy!” John really did go to the Land of the Zulu to work for his uncle Vinnie who sold construction supplies. He dropped out of high school, but his uncle had a plan to get his nephew a honorary diploma, and, a scholarship to UCLA – as a anthropologist. Together they wrote reports on the Shembe Zulu Nazarites. They published; ‘Notes of a New Nazarite – Life Amongst Zulu Prophets’ by Vincent Rice, and, John Presco University High School received a copy, and John was sent his diploma. However, John dropped out of UCLA, and moved to San Francisco to live with his childhood friend, Nancy, the first girl he ever kiss. They were good friends of Stanley Augustus Owsley. John forgot who he was for fifty years. Marilyn had put John ‘The Betrayer of God’ out of her mind. One day she is driving past Ken Kesey Square and spots a dirty old white bearded, creep, putting the make on a young pretty homeless girl, name Belle Burch. She was about to stop the car, and come to her rescue, but, then she sticks her tongue out at the pervert, and they laugh. Marilyn’s heart breaks, for she knows that laugh. It is the Mad Laugh of her old boyfriend who disappeared in the Land of the Zulu…..so long ago! A Star is born! This, is Mad John, who lost all credibility when he reported seeing giant moth eggs in in the Drackenberg mountains when he went back to his beloved Zulu People to be ordained a True Prophet because he has been spreading the teaching of Shembe – all over the world! He was taken to a giant nest by Japanese twins, who are like pixies. It was later ruled John was Pixielated – and quite insane. He couldn’t get his mind off these little girls. Where did they come from? Thank heavens they are in the good hands of the Zulu, and not chained in the bedroom of some porn movie maker. When John shared his idea for The Godzilla Run with Kathy Vrzak, where he wanted members of his tribe to come to America and do a Zulu Dance, Kathy became jealous and began working on her own African Culture show. John picks up the Zulu Warriors at the airport in an old hippie bus. His beloved Zulu have a message for John from their chief prophet. “Come home, John. There are cracks in the egg. Whatever is inside, is about to hatch.” Jon Presco Copyright 2016 “Glenn Combs: John Presco(e) has a long history of harassing young women in this area. The police seem impotent to do anything about it, though. I believe he comes from money and could be lawyered up quite well if he needed it. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down.” Play all three videos at the same time. Our Mission Statement is as follows, and We as a Non Profit Organization stand by our Mission Statement 100%. We strive to bring about unity among various racial and ethnic constituents of our community through the performance of African – American Gospel Music, sharing a message of Faith, Hope, and Charity.We present Gospel Music as a fine arts project. Inspirational Sounds Gospel Chior bringing the good news of Love and Grace to the World. We are a Community Choir of all religious backgrounds and ethnicity that comes together via Music Arts. We appreciate the work you have done for our choir thru photography and videos, but we DO NOT apprciate nor support you using us for your own personal agenda. Therefore, we ask the you cease and desist using our information and photos without our written permission. IT IS OUR RIGHT TO PROTECT OUR MEMBERS AND FRIENDS FROM BEING INVOLVED IN THIS KIND OF PUBLIC CONTROVERSY. THIS KIND OF THING GOES AGAINST OUR MISSION AND WE WILL PROTECT OUR MISSION STATEMENT BY WHATEVER MEANS NECESSARY. November 22, 2014 12:11 pm Krista, it is only fair that I make you aware of a very edgy situation because you asked not to be involved in controversy. I notice Anand Hotham-Keathly is on the planning committee. There son’s girlfriend approached me over a year ago, and took my number. She called me ten days later, the rest is a novel in itself. Belle offered to edit my biography for a fee and model for me in exchange for a bicycle I gave her. In the two hour get to know each other chat, she did not tell me she had got arrested four days earlier. I am a creative being. I do not want you to be in the middle of this. I have offered to arbitrate, but Belle and Alley did not want that. I am still open to this and rewriting history. For now, I think I will go it alone and push for my own celebration ‘The Godzilla Festival’. that wlll not compete with you. Eugene can handle two festivals. I can say this on the post you just made about me. I will wait for your response before I do. Hi greg… quite frankly im sure qhat you are tellin me. Anands daughters’ arrest is of no consequence to me and I cant imagine how it matters to you… I’m guessing…. she was arrested for solicitation before and then again with you? About an hour ago, Krysta said I was unfit to be in her group. She states; ” You are literally an UN-medicated individual with ideas of grandeur.” That sounds familiar! Where did I hear this? Message I left on Kathy Vrzak’s FB. Thanks! I am just in shock right how. I got to downsize my whole life. JUL 23RD, 4:33PM I talked to Marilyn yesterday about the choir taking the next step. Then, the Kryista news broke. Niel Laudati asked for more of my ideas. I see a Willammete River Festival managed by the choir, and, Eric Richardson. Willamalane collects its own taxes.I got them over a barrel because this abuser site was used against me at a event. I see Eric being Activites Manager for Civic Events. The Choir has performed at several celebrations. You own tradition and integrity that is sorely needed. I an my newspaper is a threat. I want to be in YOUR parade as The Wild & Crazy Big Ideas Guy’ in a cage, and brought down from the mountain every year. Only the Choir could capture & tame me. https://rosamondpress.com/2016/07/23/krysta-albert-john-monroe-racists/ Krysta Albert & John Monroe – Racists! Here is what John Monroe posted on facebook. I showed this to Krysta. “His desire to demonstrate his superior masculinity is linked to obvious male socialization patterns. Cf. Oregon Duck rap…rosamondpress.com JUL 25TH, 9:59AM “Back in December, after Natriana Shorter, who is African-American, won the crown for Miss Oregon, Albert commented on a KEZI news story that, “I know this is going to sound racist and it’s not my intention. But I can’t help but think it’s awfully strange that a woman of color would represent [the] state of Oregon. The state that has one of the smallest amount of minorities of any race compared to other states. And yes, she is very beautiful.” https://rosamondpress.com/2016/08/04/what-is-a-mission-statement/https://rosamondpress.com/2016/07/25/wild-crazy-big-idea-man/ The Godzilla Festival Posted on December 17, 2014by Royal Rosamond Press “Are you aware there is a website listing you as sexual offender?” This was the message I got from Krysta Albert the organizer of the Eugene Festifal, that replaced the Eugene Celebration run by members of the Ken Kesey family. Krysta had asked me to be on her board, and let me inside. When I saw Anan Holtham-Keathly ‘The Queen Mother of Eugene’ was on the board, I felt obligated to inform Krysta of the trouble I had had with Belle Burch and her anarchist friends. Her lover at the time was Ambrose Holtham-Keathly who appear in a leather jacket in this video. Belle approached me, took my number, called me, and arranged a meeting where she concealed her identity, the truth she was arrested with Ambrose and his friends. Belle told me I was forbidden to write about all the Holtham-Keathleys who love to appear in all our cities media. How to deal with the Homeless is like trying to figure out what to do with Godzilla who is shitting all over your downtown. “As long as they do not cause any damage or promote any hostility to me or my family, then I really don’t mind if someone is camping in the field across the way,” says neighborhood resident Michael Erickson.” You can’t make this shit up! As I type CNN is talking about the U.S. going to war with North Korea over their cyber-hacking and terrorist threats to folks who go see the movie ‘The Interview’. My novel ‘The Gideon Computer’ may end in a nuclear showdown! May Hollywood folks have failed to back Sony lest they get targeted! I had made the comment that the Kesey family could stand the competition, and Krysta told me she does not want to upset the Keseys, or get into any drama – that could hurt her business! I decided to spare her, and told her about Belle. At first she told me Anand Holtham-Keathley did not know me. I told Krysta to run Jon by her instead of Greg. That’s when Krysta was shown the preditor site by Anand. This is Cyber Stalking! So, I go to the site that Krysta is speaking of, and I am reading the exact same words that Alley Valkerie posted on Mayor Kitty Piercy’s Facebook – that were taken down. She must have gone to this Eugene City site that says you must have permission of the victim to make a report. Did Belle Burch give Alley permission, or, are we looking at the kind of shit the invisible hackers are doing to Sony? If you do not do what they say, they will embarrass you, make your life impossible, and even scary for you! Does this apply to those who continue to associate with you? All of a sudden, I can not access the Festival board site, am unfriended by Krysta Albert, and the Eugene City page where I posted my ideas of the Godzilla Festival, that if Godzilla willing, will be held at the end of my movie ‘Capturing Beauty’. I have been banned and shutdown in Eugene, a town known for being a refuge for old hippies and Bohemians. Krysta expressed concern her business may be hurt. Movie theater owners are not going to show Sony’s movie on Christmas Day the day the Crucified One – was born! Consider the cock crowing thrice, and Saint Peter denying he knows Jesus. Alley and Belle tried to get the Whiteaker Council to denounce me and label me a sex fiend. Anand had served on the council. My idea was to have a giant rope tug-of-war, a Dragon Boat Festival, and a Runaway from Godzilla, run, like the running of the bulls, with big Japanese drums pounding away! This would all take place near, and on the Mill Race down by the Cuthbert Amphitheater. Now, my creative vision, is toast, just like Alley Valkerie promised. The power she owns over our elected officials has just grown more powerful! In my movie ‘Capturing Beauty’ I am inside a big blown up balloon made in the image of Godzilla. Before me are screaming children running for their lives – with glee – from the monster of Eugene! Suddenly, Belle and her anarchists dressed as the boys from the movie ‘Lord of the Flies’ rush at me with sharpened sticks, and poke me repeatedly. Alas, they burst my bubble, and there I stand, defeated, shamed, and looking like the inner Darth Vader, the impotent white worm of a man. I look at my beautiful Muse, and say this with tears in my eyes; “It was beauty that killed the beast!” As I walk away the anarchists wonder what I am talking about, they glad now that the old fart can no longer challenge them, their claim they have all the answers, and if we do not go along with them, they will scare you, destroy you. After Alley Valkerie delivered her evil message that forbid to write in my blog about them, Belle called me on the phone, and insisted I do what they say. I told them I can not do that because Rosamond Press is a registered newspaper in Lane County, and I owe it to my peers not to cave to threats and blackmail. I told her my newspaper was founded “for the protection of the arts”. I just heard the Commander in Chief is calling for a decisive response. Homeland Security has been alerted. I might send them a letter. WE ARTISTS are under attack by a monster we never had to deal with on this level, before. I knew this monster when it just hatched, it laid out the ass of Ms. Alley. Then Belle came and sat on it while her anarchist klan whooped and danced around her. In this scene from the movie ‘The Muse’ we are tickled that a Muse is not who we expect her to be. She has made several writers famous. Like Genies, you have to be careful of what you wish for. What the grand muse may have delivered is a Korean version of the Wizard of Oz, where inside the Godzilla suit is a rolly-polly dictator that looks like the Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man. Never before in history has a dictator taken over a creative endeavor in a democracy. Belle and Alley have helped create a real monster! I suggest Sony release ‘The Interview’ on the internet, on Christmas Day, for free! There will be an intermission where viewers are bid to give to the poor, the hungry, and the disenfranchised. A image of our Nation’s Muse will be shown……giving Korea ‘The Bird’. Time to take Kim’s monster – down! Jon Presco Copyright 2014 Alley Valkyrie is cyberbulling me with the help of her radical facebook friends. She has been arrested several times for breaking the laws in my community. “Alley Valkyrie May 9 near Portland, OR Well, I just picked a fight with quite the unstable psychopath. May not have been the most sensible thing to do, but it should definitely get interesting… Glenn Combs: John Presco(e) has a long history of harassing young women in this area. The police seem impotent to do anything about it, though. I believe he comes from money and could be lawyered up quite well if he needed it. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down. Whatever, it is time to take this “man” down.” I never knew or heard of Alley until she sent me this personal message. She then posted on Kitty Piecy’s FB an obscene slander. “Facebook message from Alley Valkerie “I’m going to make this very simple for you. I don’t know if you know who I am, but I sure as hell know who you are, and when you fuck with my friends, you fuck with me. Stop writing about Belle or I am going to make your life very difficult. I mean it. If I see one more word about her on your blog, your FB, or anywhere else, I will make sure that you experience all the fear and discomfort that she is experiencing right now. And no, this isn’t a physical threat, so don’t try to play victim. Frankly, I encourage you to contact EPD, as they already know all about you. I will not do anything illegal, but mark my word you will regret it if you write one more word about her. I will make sure that the entire community knows exactly how much of a sick fuck you are. Your picture, your name, and “samples” of your writing will be posted on every bulletin board in town. There will not be a single person in the Eugene/Springfield area who won’t know that you’re a sick stalker who won’t leave a stalker who won’t leave a young girl alone. Cut it out. Now. This is your first, last, and only warning.” Alley Valkerie on facebook message. “Please, go ahead and blog my threat. You have no fucking idea what you’re getting yourself into You also have no idea how many people are already on to you, and how many people have my back. We also have six other mutual friends who are going to learn about your behavior ASAP And just so you know as well: if you write anything about me that could be construed as defamatory, you will be hearing from my lawyers ASAP.” Alley Valkyrie posted to Kitty Piercy This man’s name is John Gregory Presco, DOB 10/8/1946. He lives in Springfield, Oregon. He frequents Eugene, especially the Whiteaker neighborhood, and regularly shows up at activist events. He is a stalker, a harasser, and an obsessed de…lusional sicko. If you need a concrete example of his behavior and why I am posting this, his delusional writings can be found at https://rosamondpress.wordpress.com/ If you see him in your neighborhood, on the street, or anywhere, call him out. Expose him. Make it known that you will not accept and tolerate someone who harasses and obsesses over young women in our community. This man is a very sick individual. Anyone who deliberately makes women feel unsafe should not be tolerated in this or any community.” WASHINGTON — American intelligence officials have concluded that the North Korean government was “centrally involved” in the recent attacks on Sony Pictures’s computers, a determination reached just as Sony on Wednesday canceled its release of the comedy, which is based on a plot to assassinate Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader. Senior administration officials, who would not speak on the record about the intelligence findings, said the White House was still debating whether to publicly accuse North Koreaof what amounts to a cyberterrorism campaign. Sony’s decision to cancel release of “The Interview” amounted to a capitulation to the threats sent out by hackers this week that they would launch attacks, perhaps on theaters themselves, if the movie was released. Share this: Royal Rosamond Press One response to “John Madden and Godzilla Run” - Royal Rosamond PressFebruary 17, 2022 at 1:43 amEditReblogged this on Rosamond Press and commented:John Madden had foot races on 13th. Street. There is allot of talk about the Super Bowl halftime. For years I tried to get something done about the source of the name – LANE COUNTY! Rename Franklin Street – Harry Lane Posted on February 4, 2019 by Royal Rosamond Press
