=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nigeen Lake - Wikipedia]
Nigeen Lake (alternatively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is mildly eutrophic, [1] a term that refers to a body of water rich in nutrients, which cause excessive growth of aquatic plants like algae, resulting in bacteria that consume nearly all the oxygen.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nigeen_Lake

[Nigeen Lake - JKTDC]
The shikara is a type of wooden boat found on Dal Lake and other water bodies of Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir, India. Shikaras are of varied sizes and are used for multiple purposes, including transportation of people.
URL: https://www.jktdc.co.in/Nigeen-Lake.aspx

[Nigeen Lake | District Srinagar, Government of Jammu and Kashmir]
Nigeen Lake (alteratively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a mildly eutrophic. lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is sometimes considered a part of the Dal lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan.
URL: https://srinagar.nic.in/tourist-place/nigeen-lake/

[Dal Lake and Nigeen Lake in February - eKashmir Tourism]
Nigeen lake houses an array of willow and poplar trees. That’s the reason it is also referred “Nigeen”, which means “the jewel in the ring”. The lake is located adjacent to the Hari Parbat hillock and lies to the west of Dal Lake. To the northeast of Nigeen Lake is Hazratbal, which is known as the famous shrine.
URL: https://www.ekashmirtourism.com/dal-lake-in-february/

[Nigeen Lake: The Serene Jewel of Srinagar, Kashmir]
Experience the quiet charm of Nigeen Lake in Srinagar, a peaceful retreat for nature enthusiasts. Enjoy shikara rides, & breathtaking sunset views in Kashmir.
URL: https://www.captureatrip.com/blog/nigeen-lake


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nigeen Lake - Wikipedia] ---
Nigeen Lake (alternatively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is mildly eutrophic, a term that refers to a body of water rich in nutrients, which cause excessive growth of aquatic plants like algae, resulting in bacteria that consume nearly all the oxygen. It is sometimes considered a part of Dal Lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan.




--- [Nigeen Lake - JKTDC] ---
Nagin Lake in Srinagar is a deep blue water offshoot lake of Dal Lake that is interconnected by a thin causeway. The lake is located to the east of the city of Srinagar, at the foothill of the Zabarwan Mountain. The Shankaracharya Hill on the south and Hari Parbat on the west enclose the Nagin Lake offers breathtaking views to the visitors. It is flanked by beautiful willow and poplar trees. Good numbers of houseboats and shikaras can be seen in Nagin Lake where tourists enjoy their peaceful vacations in Srinagar. Unlike Dal Lake, Nagin Lake is a calm, serene and peaceful getaway for those who want to spend holiday in sheer nature. Apart from houseboat staying and shikara ride, tourists can also enjoy water skiing, motor rides and sailing over there. Etymology The Nigeen Lake is surrounded by a large number of willow and poplar trees. Hence, it has come to be referred as a "nageena", which means "the jewel in the ring". The word "nigeen" is a local variant of the same word. Location The lake is located adjacent to the Hari Parbat hillock, to the west of the Dal Lake. To its north and west, lie the localities of Baghwanpora and Lal Bazar while to its north east lies the locality of Hazratbal, which is known for the famous shrine. Present status The lake is a major tourist attraction in Srinagar, known for its relatively pristine waters as compared to the Dal Lake. Houseboats and shikaras are a usual sight. It’s also ideal for swimming, being deeper and less crowded than the Dal Lake. However, as is the problem with other water bodies in the Kashmir Valley, the lake also suffers from encroachments which are deteriorating its water quality and also increasing the risk of floods. As such, the government of Jammu and Kashmir is engaged in taking steps to help improve the condition of the lake and restore it to its original glory. Shikara ride The shikara is a type of wooden boat found on Dal Lake and other water bodies of Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir, India. Shikaras are of varied sizes and are used for multiple purposes, including transportation of people. A usual shikara seats half-a-dozen people, with the driver paddling at the rear. Like the Venetian gondolas, they are a cultural symbol of Kashmir. Some shikaras are still used for fishing, harvesting aquatic vegetation (usually for fodder), and transport, while most are covered with tarpaulins and are used by tourists. Some are used as floating homes by poor people. Nigeen Club Established on the bank of famed and picturesque Nigeen Lake, the very ambience of Nigeen Club is enormously attractive. As an icing on the cake recently upgraded infrastructure and state- of- the- art facilities provide ample amusement and entertainment to the club visitors of not just the valley but outside too. Houseboat A houseboat (different from boathouse, which is a shed for storing boats) is a boat that has been designed or modified to be used primarily as a home. Some houseboats are not motorized, because they are usually moored, kept stationary at a fixed point and often tethered to land to provide utilities. However, many are capable of operation under their own power. Float house is a Canadian and U.S. term for a house on a float (raft), a rough house may be called a shanty boat.


--- [Nigeen Lake | District Srinagar, Government of Jammu and Kashmir] ---
Nigeen Lake DirectionNigeen Lake (alteratively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a mildly eutrophic. lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is sometimes considered a part of the Dal lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan. The Nigeen lake is surrounded by a large number of willow and poplar trees. Hence, it has come to be referred as a “nageena”, which means “the jewel in the ring”. The word “nigeen” is a local variant of the same word. The lake is located adjacent to the Hari Parbat hillock, to the west of the Dal lake. To its north east lies the locality of Hazratbal, which is known for the famous shrine. The lake is a major tourist attraction in Srinagar, known for its relatively pristine waters as compared to the Dal lake. Houseboats and Shikaras are a usual sight. Its also ideal for swimming, being deeper and less crowded than the Dal lake. Photo Gallery How to Reach: By Air 22 Kms from Sheikh ul Alam International Airport Srinagar By Train 19.5 Kms from Srinagar Railway Station By Road 8 Kms from Lalchowk Srinagar


--- [Dal Lake and Nigeen Lake in February - eKashmir Tourism] ---
Glimpses of Kashmir Valley 3N Srinagar - 01 Hr Shikara Ride - Tour to Chandanwari, Aru & Betab Valley IN Pahalgam Srinagar, as we all know it, is the summer capital of Kashmir. It is known for its many sightseeing spots but the most renowned have to be Dal Lake and Nigeen Lake. These lakes are famous for their tranquillity, Shikara rides, and houseboat stays. Nigeen Lake, also sometimes known as Nagin Lake is mildly eutrophic. The lake makes a part of the Dal Lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. Also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via the Nallah Amir Khan channel. Nigeen lake houses an array of willow and poplar trees. That’s the reason it is also referred “Nigeen”, which means “the jewel in the ring”. The lake is located adjacent to the Hari Parbat hillock and lies to the west of Dal Lake. To the northeast of Nigeen Lake is Hazratbal, which is known as the famous shrine. The lake is a major tourist attraction in Srinagar, and its pristine waters are what charms tourists. Houseboats and Shikaras are regular but the lake is also ideal for swimming as it is less crowded than Dal Lake. Dal Lake makes of the most impressive locations in Srinagar. However, it is not really one lake but three. Furthermore, it’s not your regular lake, it’s a maze of intricate waterways and channels, floating islands of vegetation, and houseboats that sometimes look like islands and hotels on islands. But the lake however is beautiful. It is the Jewel of Srinagar spread over 16 to 20 km and the second-largest lake in Jammu & Kashmir. The picture clear lake reflects the snow-dusted peaks of the Pir Panjal mountains while the colourful shikaras float around. Dal Lake is also very famous for its unique floating market. In the local language, it is known as Raad, where vendors have their own Shikaras and approach tourists with their most endearing handicrafts, saffron, edibles and even ice-creams. During winter you can also experience ice skating at the lake because the lake is frozen. Suggested Read: Places to visit in Srinagar The average temperature of Kashmir in February is 3.8° C with an average low of -0.7 °C. The average range is approximately 8.9 °C. In the month of February, the weather is mostly dry. There are chances of rain or snow. Some parts of the valley receive a lot of snow too but the Dal and Nigeen Lake are not always frozen. Only the upper layer of water might get frozen, which usually gets dissolved during the day itself. Staying in a houseboat in winter is an experience in itself, especially if you are there for a honeymoon. Early in the morning, when you look out of the houseboat it will feel like you are parked on a blanket of fog, surrounded by snow-capped mountains in the middle of the lake. Suggested Read: Kashmir weather in February Dal Lake and Nigeen Lake are located in Srinagar. But unfortunately, Srinagar does not have a working railway station as yet. The closet is in Jammu, 300kms away. So, if you are taking a train journey then you need to travel to Jammu Tawi Railway Station first. From the station, you can hitch a cab ride or even take a bus to the summer capital of Kashmir, Srinagar. However, the lakes from the Srinagar Airport are the closest, it is a 22minute drive approximately. If you are not self-driving then you can also hire a taxi from outside the airport. The ride should take around 650-800 INR. If you are planning to self-drive to Kashmir, then make sure you stay in Srinagar to visit the Dal and Nigeen Lake. You can drive to the capital city from wherever you are based. February is an ideal time to take a road trip as well. The snow-capped mountains work as your background and the scenic views will make your drive worthwhile. Suggested Read: How to Reach Srinagar There are a number of restaurants and cafes near Dal and Nigeen Lake. You can find a nice cosy café or restaurant for yourself overlooking the lakes when you are hungry. To add to that, you can also treat yourself to come ice-cream or chocolates while taking the Shikara ride. All credit to the floating market at Dal and Nigeen Lake. As you ride on the Shikara, there are a number of small shops you can find to buy handlooms, clothes, groceries or Kashmiri products. These vendors go from one corner to another of the lakes and provide daily essentials to the people living inside houseboats. If are taking a walk at Boulevard Road, overlooking the lake, you will find local tea shops around selling some amazing tea, Kahwah and snacks. You can sip on some hot tea in the cold weather of February and enjoy the beautiful view of the lake. As mentioned, Dal Lake has interconnected lakes and channels, buildings on stilts, floating gardens and houseboats which comes as a surprise to tourists. The lake is actually formed from five lake basins – Nehru Park, Nishat, Hazratbal, Nigeen and Brari. Dal lake has a shallow depth of 6m with an area of around 16 sq. km. Even though the depth is only 6m, you must be careful before taking a swim, if you are not a professional or experienced swimmer, please refrain from the activity. The Dal and Nigeen lakes are famous for their beauty and tranquillity. So, make sure you do not litter in the lake. To add to that, Shikara’s are usually low-angled boats. So, if you are enjoying the ride with kids, please refrain the kids from bending to play with the water, they might slip and fall in the lake. Also, the lake is known for its calmness and peace. Avoid smoking and alcohol at the lake and disrupting the calm. Dal Lake and Nigeen Lake are considered urban lakes located in Srinagar. It is the second-largest lake in Jammu and Kashmir considered the most-visited destination in the valley. If you are visiting Dal Lake and Nigeen Lake, below are three must-visit places near the lakes. Nishat Bagh – Nishat Bagh is the second biggest Mughal Garden. It overlooks an exquisite architectural outlook, which makes it a charming place to visit near Dal and Nigeen Lake. The garden justifies what Mughal Gardens were like in those times. Its beautiful terrace garden built on the eastern side of Dal Lake is a reflection of what heaven on earth would be like. So peaceful, so tranquil and so beautiful. You will find Persian lilacs and pansies with their water cascading terraces. The name “Nishat Bagh” is symbolic of “garden of joy” and ”garden of delight”. The garden has a backdrop of the Zabarwan mountains and gives a spectacular view of Dal Lake and the Pir Panjal Mountain range. Hazrat Bal – This place is a pilgrimage place to visit near the lakes. Hazrat Bal is popularly known as “Dargah Sharif” or “Madinat-Us-Sani”. The shrine is considered to be the most divine Muslim shrine in India. Its name is a combination of the Persian word, Hazrat means respected and the Kashmiri word Bal, which means place. It was established by Inayat Begum, and it is a silvery white mosque that contains a relic known as “Moi-e- Muqquadas”. It is widely believed to be the hair of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Tourists can also visit Hazrat Bal Shrine on the northern banks of Dal Lake. Boulevard Road – If you wish to have a panoramic view of Dal Lake, just take a stroll down Boulevard Road. The Dal and Nigeen Lake stretch all along this beautiful road. This is also a hot spot for the locals. They flock here during the evening to sip on some tea and snacks and catch up with their friends. If you are hungry or need some warmth, have a cup of tea and some snacks yourself. The view of the beautiful lake will be your perfect companion while you sip some hot tea. Also, there are multiple shops just around the road where you can buy handicrafts of Kashmir, clothes, local dry fruits and the most famous Kashmiri saffron. During the month of February, the lakes might be partially frozen. So, you must be prepared for the same. Sometimes, if the lake is heavily frozen, which is not the case in February, but if it is then a Shikara ride will not be possible. However, you can definitely enjoy the attractions around the lakes. You can also go enjoy shopping in the nearby area. In case you are taking a Shikara ride, make a note of the timings and the fare mentioned below. Shikara Ride Timings: 7 am to 9 pm Fare: INR 550 per person (1 hour), INR 800 (2 hours), and INR 1050 (3 hours) Apart from the Shikara Ride, there are other activities you can experience at the lakes as well. Don’t forget to catch the sunset at the lakes. But catching the sunset from the outside is no fun. Take a ride during sunset and just anchor your Shikara and watch the beautiful sunset, amidst the magnetic mountains and tranquil lake. In addition to this, fishing is also another activity you can experience at the lake. If you want to try your hand at it, just ask a local if they would let you. They are very friendly and never deny such requests. Our experts would love to create a package just for you!


--- [Nigeen Lake: The Serene Jewel of Srinagar, Kashmir] ---
Nigeen Lake, located in the heart of Srinagar, is a quiet and gorgeous body of water that provides visitors with a peaceful escape from the busy pace of daily life. Nigeen Lake, sometimes overshadowed by the larger and more famous Dal Lake, is a hidden gem just waiting to be discovered. Nigeen Lake has something unique to offer for anybody who loves nature, seeks serenity, or simply enjoys the peaceful beauty of a lakeside resort. In this blog, we'll take you on a thrilling tour through every detail that makes Nigeen Lake unique: its breathtaking natural beauty, fun-filled activities, comfortable houseboats, and warm welcome from its residents. Buckle up, because this article will make you want to grab your bags and travel to this tranquil region of Kashmir Tour! The Untouched Beauty Of Nigeen Lake: Nigeen Lake is commonly referred to as the "Jewel in the Ring," and with good cause! Surrounded by beautiful willow and poplar trees, the lake shines like a priceless pearl, reflecting the stunning views of the Zabarwan Mountain region. The air surrounding the lake is crisp and fresh, the waters are crystal clear, and the soft breeze conveys the aroma of pine trees. It's the type of environment that instantly calms your mind and soothes your spirit with tranquility. Compared to the crowded Dal Lake, Nigeen is quieter and more tranquil. There won't be a lot of chaos or crowds here. It's ideal for individuals seeking peace and alone or simply wanting to relax in the lap of the natural world. There is a quiet here that is difficult to find elsewhere—a sense that time too has slowed down. Houseboats: The floating stays of Nigeen Nigeen Lake's distinctive houseboats, which float calmly on its waters, are one of its highlights. If you visit Srinagar, staying on a houseboat on Nigeen Lake is a must. These houseboats are the epitome of floating hotels, providing all of the amenities of a luxury stay while also being surrounded by nature. Imagine waking up to the sound of calm water splashing against the boat, with the first bright beams of sunlight coming in through your window—sounds beautiful, right? These houseboats come in plenty of sizes and styles, including traditional timber designs and more modern luxury choices. Many of them are exquisitely furnished with elaborate Kashmiri woodwork, carpets, and traditional furniture. Some even come with private balconies where you can relax with a cup of Kahwa (traditional Kashmiri tea) and take in the breathtaking scenery. Shikara Rides: Flow across calm waters Speaking of shikara tours, a trip to Nigeen Lake is not complete without one! These wonderfully colored boats are an integral element of Kashmiri culture, serving as transportation and a means of selling local items. What is the best part? You may sit back and unwind and let the shikara guy gently row you across the lake as you enjoy the scenery. It's a relaxing, even meditative feeling. As you glide across the serene waters, you'll note how peaceful and quiet the surroundings are. The only noises you'll hear are birds singing, the odd splash of water, and the gentle rowing of the shikara. If you're lucky, you could even see some fish swimming beneath the boat. Sunset at Nigeen Lake: A gorgeous moment One of the most amazing experiences at Nigeen Lake is watching the setting sun set behind the mountains. The entire area is drenched in orange light, and the reflections on the lake's surface are stunning. It's one of those memories that will last a lifetime, regardless of how many sunsets you've witnessed. As the sky becomes pink, orange, and purple, the lake's calm deepens. The serenity in the air, the quiet waterways, and the gorgeous colors all contribute to an indescribable sensation of peace. If you enjoy photography, now is the moment to snap some spectacular images that are sure to make all your friends envy! Interesting Things around Nigeen Lake While Nigeen Lake is best renowned for its peace and quiet there are plenty of exciting activities for those seeking a bit more action. Here are a few of the main activities surrounding Nigeen Lake: 1. Water activities: If you're an adrenaline enthusiast, you'll be pleased to learn that Nigeen Lake has a variety of water activities such as water skiing, kayaking, and paddle boating. This activity offers a unique perspective on the lake and might increase your heart rate. The calm seas make it an ideal site for beginners! 2. Cycling or Walking Around the Lake: The region surrounding Nigeen Lake is ideal for cycling or lengthy treks. There is a trail around the lake, enabling you to enjoy the beauty at your leisure. Take in the fresh air as you wander in the shadow of tall poplar and willow trees, the lake glistening alongside you. It's a relaxing way to explore your surroundings while still getting some exercise. 3. Bird Watching: Nigeen Lake is a sanctuary for bird enthusiasts. The peaceful surroundings attract a variety of species, including kingfishers, herons, and egrets. The best time to go bird watching is in either the morning or the afternoon, and always remember to bring your binoculars! 4. Exploring Nearby sites: While Nigeen Lake is a serene getaway, it is also conveniently placed near some of Srinagar's most popular sites. You may easily visit Dal Lake, the Mughal Gardens (Shalimar Bagh, Nishat Bagh), and Hazratbal Shrine. These attractions provide a more in-depth look at Srinagar's cultural and natural splendor. Best time to visit Nigeen Lake Nigeen Lake is lovely all year, but the best time to come depends on the type of experience you want. Spring (March-May): Spring is the best season to view the valley in full flower. The weather is pleasant, the trees are lush and green, and the flowers are fully blooming. During this time of year, the lake and its environs are very beautiful. Summer (June–August): is the most popular season for tourists. The weather is warm but not too hot, making it excellent for outdoor activities. Autumn (September to November): is often regarded as the most beautiful season in Kashmir, with Chinar trees changing red, orange, and gold. The clean air and beautiful skies provide for ideal shooting and sightseeing. Winter (December–February): If you don't mind the chilly weather, winter is a peaceful season to explore Nigeen Lake. The lake can partially freeze, and the surrounding mountains are snow-covered, producing a postcard-perfect winter beauty. Conclusion Nigeen Lake is far more than simply a piece of water; it is an experience that embodies the spirit of Kashmir. Nigeen Lake has things for all, from the tranquil atmosphere and scenic splendor to the one-of-a-kind houseboat stays and thrilling shikara rides. Whether you're planning a romantic trip, a family holiday, or a solitary excursion, Nigeen Lake will provide you with experiences that last a lifetime. So what are you hoping for? Pack your luggage, grab your camera, and go on a memorable excursion to Nigeen Lake, Srinagar's hidden jewel. Your calm refuge in nature is only a shikara ride away! Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs): 1. What is Nigeen Lake known for? Nigeen Lake is well-known for its quiet beauty and tranquil ambiance, making it a popular choice for vacationers seeking peace and leisure. It is well-known for houseboat stays, Shikara rides, and breathtaking views of the nearby Zabarwan mountains. 2. How do I go to Nigeen Lake? Nigeen Lake is around 10 kilometers from the city center and 20 kilometers from Srinagar Airport. You may get to the lake by using a cab or public transit. It's easily accessible by road, and several hotels surrounding Dal Lake provide boat cruises to Nigeen. 3. Is Nigeen Lake different from Dal Lake? Yes, Nigeen Lake is a different body of water linked to Dal Lake by a thin strait. While Dal Lake is more commercialized and popular, Nigeen Lake is calmer and more remote, providing a more relaxing experience. 4. What can I do at Nigeen Lake? Nigeen Lake offers Shikara rides, houseboat stays, easy walks along the banks, fishing, and the opportunity to simply relax while appreciating the scenic surroundings. It's also an excellent location for birding. 5. What are the neighboring attractions of Nigeen Lake? Dal Lake, Hazratbal Shrine, Shankaracharya Temple, Nishat and Shalimar Bagh Mughal Gardens, and the Pari Mahal are also nearby sights. These locations are just a short ride or boat trip from Nigeen Lake. 6. Is there a restaurant or café near Nigeen Lake? Yes, there are various local eateries, cafés, and restaurants around Nigeen Lake that serve Kashmiri cuisine, as well as other Indian and foreign foods. Some houseboats also serve meals, which adds to the ambiance of your stay. 7. What is the ideal time to visit Nigeen Lake? The best months to visit Nigeen Lake are April through October, when the weather is favorable and excellent for outdoor activities. During these months, the temperature is pleasant, and the surrounding landscape is at its best. 8. Can I swim in Nigeen Lake? Swimming is not encouraged in Nigeen Lake due to the chilly water and variable cleanliness. However, some daring swimmers go for a dip, although it is best to confer with locals first.
