=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[IHOP’s Mike Bickle Endorses Ted Cruz for President]
Jan 22, 2016 · Mike Bickle, founder and director of the International House of Prayer of Kansas City, just gave a nod to Texas Sen. Ted Cruz. The intercessory prayer pioneer has endorsed Cruz for president.
URL: https://mycharisma.com/culture/ihop-s-mike-bickle-endorses-ted-cruz-for-president/

[Cruz Campaign Press Release - Cruz for President Announces ...]
Jan 21, 2016 · HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Mike Bickle, Founder and Director of the International House of Prayer of Kansas City, an evangelical missions organization based on prayer.
URL: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/cruz-campaign-press-release-cruz-for-president-announces-endorsement-mike-bickle

[Fanning the Flames of Dominionism: Ted Cruz Officially ...]
Jan 22, 2016 · Those ties were confirmed yesterday as the Cruz campaign announced that Mr. Cruz had been endorsed by dominionist and International House of Prayer (IHOP) leader Mike Bickle, a major figure in the New Apostolic Reformation (NAR).
URL: https://pulpitandpen.org/2016/01/22/fanning-the-flames-of-dominionism-ted-cruz-officially-endorsed-by-mike-bickle/

[Ted Cruz campaign defends endorsement by pastor who believes ...]
Feb 12, 2016 · Ted Cruz' campaign has been forced to defend an endorsement he received from a prominent pastor who has made highly controversial statements about Jews. Mike Bickle is the founder and director of the International House of Prayer of Kansas City.
URL: https://www.christiantoday.com/news/ted-cruz-campaign-defends-endorsement-by-pastor-who-believes-jews-brought-holocaust-on-themselves

[Cruz campaign clarifies controversial endorsement of Bickle]
Feb 11, 2016 · Last month, the Cruz campaign issued a press release announcing the endorsement of evangelical leader Mike Bickle, the founder and director of the Kansas City-based International House of...
URL: https://jewishjournal.com/news/united-states/182407/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [IHOP’s Mike Bickle Endorses Ted Cruz for President] ---
No content


--- [Cruz Campaign Press Release - Cruz for President Announces ...] ---
Prayer and Justice Leader Supports Ted Cruz for President HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the endorsement of Mike Bickle, Founder and Director of the International House of Prayer of Kansas City, an evangelical missions organization based on prayer. "Our nation is in a great crisis in this hour," Bickle said. "We need a president who will first be faithful to honor God's Word. We need a president who will work to defend religious liberty, uphold our Constitution, keep our country safe and our economy sound, and speak truth to the nation. We have been praying for righteous leaders, and Ted Cruz is such a leader. I am enthusiastically endorsing Ted Cruz." The International House of Prayer is engaged in many outreaches, justice initiatives, and mission projects. For the last 16 years, their prayer room has continued nonstop in 24/7 prayer led by worship teams. 800 staff members work at the IHOPKC Mission Base in Kansas City, and 800 full-time students and interns attend the International House of Prayer University, which consists of three full-time ministry schools— a Bible school, music school, and media school. About 20,000 people attend One Thing annually, IHOPKC's year-end young adult conference "Through prayer, the Lord has changed my life and altered my family's story," said Cruz. "I am grateful for Mike's dedication to call a generation of young people to prayer and spiritual commitment. Heidi and I are grateful to have his prayers and support. With the support of Mike and many other people of faith, we will fight the good fight, finish the course, and keep the faith." Bickle is the author of 10 books including Passion for Jesus, Growing in Prayer, The Pleasures of Loving God, and The Rewards of Fasting. His teaching emphasizes making disciples who seek to walk out the two Great Commandments while serving together to see the Great Commission fulfilled and the fame of Jesus' name fill the earth. Mike pastored for 23 years before starting the IHOPKC Missions Base in 1999, and has been married to Diane for 38 years, with two sons and five grandchildren. *Titles and affiliations of Mike Bickle provided for identification purposes only. Ted Cruz, Cruz Campaign Press Release - Cruz for President Announces Endorsement of Mike Bickle Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/node/315138


--- [Fanning the Flames of Dominionism: Ted Cruz Officially ...] ---
No content


--- [Ted Cruz campaign defends endorsement by pastor who believes ...] ---
Ted Cruz' campaign has been forced to defend an endorsement he received from a prominent pastor who has made highly controversial statements about Jews. Mike Bickle is the founder and director of the International House of Prayer of Kansas City. His organisation runs ministry schools with 800 full-time students as well as other mission projects and outreach initiatives. Around 20,000 people attend the organisation's One Thing conference every year. Last month Bickle endorsed Cruz for the Republican nomination, saying: "Our nation is in a great crisis in this hour. We need a president who will first be faithful to honor God's Word. We need a president who will work to defend religious liberty, uphold our Constitution, keep our country safe and our economy sound, and speak truth to the nation. We have been praying for righteous leaders, and Ted Cruz is such a leader. I am enthusiastically endorsing Ted Cruz." The Cruz campaign highlighted Bickle's valuable endorsement at the time, but has been forced on the defensive after some of his views made negative headlines. One of Bickle's projects is Israel Mandate, one of whose goals is "partnering with Messianic Jews for the salvation of the Jewish people". His comments on God's plans for Jewish people have come in for particular criticism. In a sermon in 2011 he said that God would give Jews a chance to convert to Christianity and would "raise up the hunters" against those who refused. He described Hitler as "the most famous hunter in recent history". Bickle's words echo those of Christian Zionist John Hagee, who has also described Hitler as a "hunter" who was fulfilling God's will. America's Anti-Defamation League issued a statement urging Cruz to distance himself from Bickle's views. "Mike Bickle's views about why God allowed Jews to be killed in the Holocaust, as expressed in a 2011 speech, are abhorrent, intolerant and unacceptable," it said. "We assume that Senator Cruz accepted Bickle's endorsement without knowing about these comments. We hope that when these comments are called to the Senator's attention, he will clearly and forcefully reject Bickle's hateful ideas." The National Jewish Democratic Council called on Cruz to "clarify his position and explain why he chose to highlight someone who is 'notorious for having said that God sent Hitler to hunt Jews for not accepting Jesus as the messiah.'" Nick Muzin, a senior adviser to the Texas senator's campaign, told Jewish Insider: "Our campaign welcomes support from faith leaders across the country. Mike Bickle is one of the hundreds who have endorsed us. My understanding is that he was paraphrasing the words of the prophets Jeremiah and Zechariah. I know that he has made support for Israel and the Jewish people a central part of his mission."


--- [Cruz campaign clarifies controversial endorsement of Bickle] ---
Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz has come under fire for associating himself with a controversial Christian evangelical leader who is notorious for having said that God sent Hitler to hunt Jews “for not accepting Jesus as the Messiah.” Last month, the Cruz campaign issued a press release announcing the endorsement of evangelical leader Mike Bickle, the founder and director of the Kansas City-based International House of Prayer. According to a report by Times of Israel, in recent years, Bickle has delivered numerous sermons that predict new Holocaust-like conditions for Jews if they do not recognize Jesus as their Messiah. He also suggested, based on a passage from Jeremiah 16:16, that Adolf Hitler was sent by God to murder more than six million Jews. Cruz, seeking to boost his candidacy among evangelical voters, said in a statement that he is “grateful for Mike’s dedication to call a generation of young people to prayer and spiritual commitment,” adding, “With the support of Mike and many other people of faith, we will fight the good fight, finish the course, and keep the faith.” On Tuesday, the National Jewish Democratic Council called on Cruz to disassociate himself from Bickle and clarify his position. “It is profoundly troubling that Sen. Ted Cruz proudly trumpeted the endorsement of such a controversial figure who holds such offensive views,” the NJDC said in a statement. “In announcing Bickle’s support, Sen. Cruz said, ‘we will fight the good fight, finish the course.’ We call on Sen. Cruz to clarify his position and explain why he chose to highlight someone who is ‘notorious for having said that God sent Hitler to hunt Jews for not accepting Jesus as the Messiah.’ ” The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) also called on Cruz to repudiate Bickle’s rhetoric. “Mike Bickle’s views about why God allowed Jews to be killed in the Holocaust, as expressed in a 2011 speech, are abhorrent, intolerant and unacceptable,” a statement by ADL read. “We assume that Senator Cruz accepted Bickle’s endorsement without knowing about these comments. We hope that when these comments are called to the Senator’s attention, he will clearly and forcefully reject Bickle’s hateful ideas.” In an email to Jewish Insider, Cruz’s senior advisor, Nick Muzin, insisted that Bickle is “only one of the hundreds who have endorsed us.” According to Muzin, “My understanding is that he was paraphrasing the words of the prophets Jeremiah and Zechariah. I know that he has made support for Israel and the Jewish people a central part of his mission.” The Republican presidential hopeful’s advisor went on to tout Cruz’s record on Israel and his warm relationship with the American Jewish community. “No one has a better record than Senator Cruz when it comes to standing with Israel, fighting against radical Islamic terror, and combating global anti-Semitism. That is why he has been endorsed by over 70 rabbis and Jewish leaders from across the country, including leaders of major Jewish organizations,” said Muzin. “Last summer, Senator Cruz brought together evangelical faith leaders with Jewish organizations to try and stop the Iran nuclear deal. We are proud of the support we are building in both communities and see them as complementary, and part of our larger goal of restoring Judeo-Christian leadership values to America and the world.” But that clarification was not satisfying enough for the NJDC. “The Cruz campaign’s response from criticism from NJDC and the ADL of one of its feature endorsees falls woefully short,” the Jewish Democratic group said. “We remain troubled that rather than distance himself and refute Bickle’s offensive rhetoric, the Cruz campaign has doubled down, merely restating the senator’s position on Israel and attempting to minimize Pastor Bickle’s role as an endorser. We call on Sen. Cruz’s campaign to speak clearly when it comes to such an offensive statement.” “Presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz must clarify if he stands with Pastor Mike Bickle and his belief that God sent Hitler to hunt Jews for not accepting Jesus as the Messiah,” the NJDC demanded.
