=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kenneth Hsu - Wikipedia]
He was associate professor at two universities in the USA between 1963 and 1967, before becoming professor of geology at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zürich) between 1967 and 1994, where he promoted experimental geology and built up 5 leading international laboratories in the fields of rock mechanics (geophysics), mass ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_Hsu

[Kenneth Jinghwa Hsü (born June 28, 1929), American professor of geology | World Biographical Encyclopedia]
Professor geology Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zürich, 1967—1994. President Tarim Resources Recycling Ltd., since 2005. Consultant Chinese Ministry Geology, 1979-1980, Chinese Ministry Chemical Industry, 1987, others. Member expert panel on sea bed waste disposal International ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/kenneth_jinghwa.hsu/644259

[Kenneth Hsu - School of Earth Sciences - The Ohio State University]
... Kenneth Hsu earned his M.A. from SES in 1950 and is now the Director of the Leewen Center of Holistic Cancer Studies in Surrey, UK. ... I got to where I am thanks to recognition by leading scientists of the time, Jim Gilluly, John Rodgers, and M. King Hubbert.
URL: https://earthsciences.osu.edu/kenneth-hsu

[Kenneth Hsu Explained]
He was associate professor at two universities in the USA between 1963 and 1967, before becoming professor of geology at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zürich) between 1967 and 1994, where he promoted experimental geology and built up 5 leading international laboratories in the fields of rock mechanics (geophysics), mass ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Kenneth_Hsu/

[Kenneth Hsu - Wikiwand]
He was associate professor at two universities in the USA between 1963 and 1967, before becoming professor of geology at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zürich) between 1967 and 1994, where he promoted experimental geology and built up 5 leading international laboratories in the fields of rock mechanics (geophysics), mass ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Kenneth_Hs%C3%BC


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kenneth Hsu - Wikipedia] ---
Kenneth Jinghwa Hsu (simplified Chinese: 许靖华; traditional Chinese: 許靖華; pinyin: Xǔ Jìnghuá, born 28 June 1929) is a Chinese scientist, geologist, paleoclimatologist, oceanographer, government advisor, author, inventor and entrepreneur who was born in Nanjing, China.




--- [Kenneth Jinghwa Hsü (born June 28, 1929), American professor of geology | World Biographical Encyclopedia] ---
Background Hsü, Kenneth Jinghwa was born on June 28, 1929 in Nanking, China. Arrived in Switzerland, 1967. Son of Sinwu and Sulan (Huang) Hsü. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. ( The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger w...) The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger was a radically new instrument that revolutionized earth science in the same sense that the cyclotron revolutionized nuclear physics, and its deep-sea drilling voyages, conducted from 1968 through 1983, were some of the great scientific adventures of our time. Beginning with the vessel's first cruises, which lent support to the idea of continental drift, the Challenger played a key part in the widely publicized plate-tectonics revolution and its challenge to more conventional theories. Originally published in 1992. The Princeton Legacy Library uses the latest print-on-demand technology to again make available previously out-of-print books from the distinguished backlist of Princeton University Press. These paperback editions preserve the original texts of these important books while presenting them in durable paperback editions. The goal of the Princeton Legacy Library is to vastly increase access to the rich scholarly heritage found in the thousands of books published by Princeton University Press since its founding in 1905. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0691087350/?tag=2022091-20 ( The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger w...) The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger was a radically new instrument that revolutionized earth science in the same sense that the cyclotron revolutionized nuclear physics, and its deep-sea drilling voyages, conducted from 1968 through 1983, were some of the great scientific adventures of our time. Beginning with the vessel's first cruises, which lent support to the idea of continental drift, the Challenger played a key part in the widely publicized plate-tectonics revolution and its challenge to more conventional theories. Here the leading oceanographer and earth scientist Kenneth Hs offers an intensely personal account of the experiences of the ship's diverse crews--the sailors, drillers, marine technicians, and scientists who braved not only the ocean's resistance to surrendering its secrets but also the difficulties of balky machinery, physical illness, close quarters, and all-too-human temperaments. But the intellectual rewards of the journeys also abounded, and Hs is the ideal writer to convey the excitement with which he and other crew scientists pursued them. The quintessential insider, he offers biographical sketches, humorous anecdotes, background information from the history of geology, and excerpts from the ship's daily operational report--all skillfully combined with a narrative history of the ship's explorations in the Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian oceans and the polar seas. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0691024065/?tag=2022091-20 ( The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger w...) The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger was a radically new instrument that revolutionized earth science in the same sense that the cyclotron revolutionized nuclear physics, and its deep-sea drilling voyages, conducted from 1968 through 1983, were some of the great scientific adventures of our time. Beginning with the vessel's first cruises, which lent support to the idea of continental drift, the Challenger played a key part in the widely publicized plate-tectonics revolution and its challenge to more conventional theories. Originally published in 1992. The Princeton Legacy Library uses the latest print-on-demand technology to again make available previously out-of-print books from the distinguished backlist of Princeton University Press. These paperback editions preserve the original texts of these important books while presenting them in durable paperback editions. The goal of the Princeton Legacy Library is to vastly increase access to the rich scholarly heritage found in the thousands of books published by Princeton University Press since its founding in 1905. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0691609330/?tag=2022091-20 Hsü, Kenneth Jinghwa was born on June 28, 1929 in Nanking, China. Arrived in Switzerland, 1967. Son of Sinwu and Sulan (Huang) Hsü. Bachelor of Science, Nanking University, 1948. Master of Arts, Ohio State University, 1950. Doctor of Philosophy, University of California at Los Angeles, 1953. Doctor of Science (honorary), Nanking University, 1987. Research geologist, section head Shell Oil Corporation, Houston, 1954-1963. Associate professor State University of New York, Binghamton, 1963-1964, University California, Riverside, 1964-1967. Professor geology Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Zürich, 1967—1994. President Tarim Resources Recycling Ltd., since 2005. Consultant Chinese Ministry Geology, 1979-1980, Chinese Ministry Chemical Industry, 1987, others. Member expert panel on sea bed waste disposal International Maritime Organization, 1986. ( The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger w...) ( The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger w...) ( The famous geological research ship Glomar Challenger w...) (Great Dying, The: Cosmic Catastrophe, Dinosaurs, and the ...) Fellow Geological Society of America (Penrose medal 2001). Member United States National Academy of Sciences (foreign associate), International Association Sedimentology (president 1978-1982), American Society Sedimentology (honorary), International Commission Marine Geology (chairman 1980-1989). Married 1st Ruth Grunder in 1958 (deceased), two son one daughter. Married 2nd Christine Eugster in 1966, one son.


--- [Kenneth Hsu - School of Earth Sciences - The Ohio State University] ---
Kenneth Hsu Kenneth Hsu earned his M.A. from SES in 1950 and is now the Director of the Leewen Center of Holistic Cancer Studies in Surrey, UK. Contact: k.jinghwahsu@gmail.com Where has your degree taken you? I got to where I am thanks to recognition by leading scientists of the time, Jim Gilluly, John Rodgers, and M. King Hubbert. Their letters of recommendation helped me to be appointed Professor of Process-Oriented Geology at the Swiss Institute of Technology. With the generous funding support of the Swiss government and the enthusiastic assistance of my colleagues and students, we made major contributions to the geosciences including areas of experimental rock deformation, limnology, and the geobiology. How do you feel your experience, specifically as an SES/geology student at OSU, prepared you for your career or life in general? It was a good start to my career and I went on to learn more at UCLA, Shell Research Lab, UC Riverside, and ETH Zurich. What is your favorite memory as a student? Field camp in Utah, and Ed Spiekers’s piano performances. What advice do you have for current and future students? Respect the intellectual wisdom of Ed Spieker as it was the spirit of my time at OSU.


--- [Kenneth Hsu Explained] ---
No content


--- [Kenneth Hsu - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
