=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Katharine Burr Blodgett Facts for Kids]
Katharine Burr Blodgett (born January 10, 1898 – died October 12, 1979) was an American scientist. She was a physicist and chemist. Katharine is famous for inventing "invisible" glass. This special glass doesn't reflect light. She created it while working at General Electric. In 1926, she became the first woman to earn a PhD in physics from the University of Cambridge.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Katharine_Burr_Blodgett

[Katharine Burr Blodgett - Wikiwand]
Katharine Burr Blodgett (January 10, 1898 – October 12, 1979) [2] was an American physicist and chemist known for her work on surface chemistry, in particular her invention of "invisible" or nonreflective glass while working at General Electric.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Katherine_Blodgett

[Katharine Burr Blodgett Invents Non-Reflective Glass - ThoughtCo]
May 29, 2019 · U.S. Patent 2,597,562: 1952: "Electrically Conducting Layer" U.S. Patent 2,636,832: 1953: "Method of Forming Semiconducting Layers on Glass and Article Formed Thereby"
URL: https://www.thoughtco.com/katharine-burr-blodgett-4074153

[Katharine Burr Blodgett - Wikipedia]
Katharine Burr Blodgett (January 10, 1898 – October 12, 1979) [2] was an American physicist and chemist known for her work on surface chemistry, in particular her invention of "invisible" or nonreflective glass while working at General Electric.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Katharine_Burr_Blodgett

[This Month in Physics History - American Physical Society]
Blodgett received a patent for the process in March 1938, and GE announced the discovery in December of that year. Katharine Burr Blodgett was born in Schenectady, NY, in 1898. Her father, a patent attorney at General Electric, died shortly before she was born, and the family moved several times during her childhood.
URL: https://www.aps.org/publications/apsnews/200703/history.cfm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Katharine Burr Blodgett Facts for Kids] ---
Katharine Burr Blodgett facts for kids Quick facts for kids Katharine Burr Blodgett | | |---|---| | Blodgett demonstrating equipment in lab, 1938 | | | Born | Schenectady, New York, U.S. | January 10, 1898 | Died | October 12, 1979 Schenectady, New York, U.S. | (aged 81) | Education | | | Occupation | | | Employer | General Electric | | Known for | | | Relatives | Katharine Blodgett Gebbie (niece) | | Awards | Garvan–Olin Medal (1951) | Katharine Burr Blodgett (born January 10, 1898 – died October 12, 1979) was an American scientist. She was a physicist and chemist. Katharine is famous for inventing "invisible" glass. This special glass doesn't reflect light. She created it while working at General Electric. In 1926, she became the first woman to earn a PhD in physics from the University of Cambridge. Contents Early Life and Family Katharine Blodgett was born in Schenectady, New York, on January 10, 1898. Her father, George Blodgett, was a patent attorney at General Electric. He sadly passed away just before Katharine was born. Her mother, Katharine Buchanan Blodgett, moved with Katharine and her older brother, George Jr., to New York City. In 1901, her mother decided to move the family to France. She wanted her children to learn to speak two languages. They lived in France for several years. After that, they traveled through Germany. In 1912, Katharine returned to New York City. She attended the Rayson School there. Katharine's Education Journey Katharine didn't start school until she was eight years old. After attending Rayson School, she received a scholarship to Bryn Mawr College. There, two professors greatly inspired her. They were mathematician Charlotte Angas Scott and physicist James Barnes. In 1917, a scientist named Irving Langmuir gave Katharine a tour. He was a former colleague of her father. Langmuir later won a Nobel Prize. He offered Katharine a job at General Electric (GE). But first, she needed to get more education. So, after earning her bachelor's degree, she went to the University of Chicago. She studied how gases stick to surfaces. This research was important for gas masks. She earned her master's degree in 1918. Then, she started working with Langmuir at GE. After six years, Katharine wanted to advance her career. She decided to get a doctoral degree. Langmuir helped her get into Cambridge University. She studied physics at the Cavendish Laboratory. In 1926, she made history. She became the first woman to earn a PhD in physics from Cambridge University. Groundbreaking Work at General Electric Katharine Blodgett joined General Electric as a research scientist in 1918. She was the first woman scientist to work at GE's lab in Schenectady, New York. She often worked with Irving Langmuir. He had developed a way to create very thin films, just one molecule thick, on water. Blodgett and Langmuir explored how to use these thin films. They applied them to different materials like oils, plastics, and proteins. They created special coatings that were only a few nanometers thick. These coatings could cover surfaces like water, metal, or glass. Inventing "Invisible" Glass In 1935, Blodgett improved Langmuir's work. She found a way to add these super-thin coatings one layer at a time. She would dip a metal plate into water covered with a layer of oil. Each dip added another layer of oil. This allowed her to stack layers with amazing precision. The tool she used is now called the Langmuir–Blodgett trough. Using this method, Blodgett found practical uses for these thin films. She covered glass with 44 layers of a special film. This made the glass more than 99% clear. It became "invisible" glass. The light reflected by the film layers canceled out the reflections from the glass itself. This non-reflective coating is now known as Langmuir–Blodgett film. This invention was very useful. The famous movie Gone with the Wind (1939) used Blodgett's invisible glass. It helped make the movie's pictures look very clear. After World War II, non-reflective lenses were used in movie projectors and cameras. Blodgett's glass also helped during the war. It was used in submarine periscopes and spy cameras on airplanes. The Color Gauge: Measuring Tiny Layers Blodgett also invented the color gauge. This tool could measure molecular coatings on glass. It was accurate to one millionth of an inch! She noticed that different thicknesses of coatings had different colors. As she added layers of a certain acid to glass, the color changed. Each layer was incredibly thin, about 2/10,000,000 of an inch. Before her invention, measuring tools were not nearly as precise. Her glass "ruler" made measuring thickness easy. You just matched the color to find the exact thickness. Blodgett and Langmuir also worked on making light bulbs better. Their studies on electricity in gases helped create the field of plasma physics. Katharine Blodgett received eight U.S. patents for her inventions. She was the main inventor on most of them. She also wrote over 30 scientific papers. Her other inventions included materials for poison gas masks, ways to de-ice airplane wings, and better smokescreens. Personal Life and Hobbies Katharine Blodgett lived her whole adult life in Schenectady, New York. She was an active member of her community. She enjoyed many hobbies, including gardening, astronomy, and collecting old items. She also helped with local groups like the Travelers Aid Society. Even after she retired in 1963, she kept doing her gardening experiments. This showed her lifelong love for discovery. She passed away on October 12, 1979. She left behind a legacy of new ideas and breaking barriers for women in science. Her niece, Katharine Blodgett Gebbie, was also a scientist. She remembered her Aunt Blodgett bringing "apparatus" when she visited. Her aunt would show them how to make colors by dipping glass rods into thin oil films on water. Gebbie often said her aunt inspired her to pursue a career in science. Katharine bought a home in Schenectady that looked over her birthplace. She was also an actress in her town's theater group. She volunteered for many community and charity groups. She spent summers at a camp at Lake George, where she loved to garden. Blodgett was also an enthusiastic amateur astronomer. She collected antiques, played bridge with friends, and wrote funny poems. Awards and Recognition Katharine Blodgett received many awards during her life. - In 1943, she was listed in American Men of Science. This recognized her as one of the top 1,000 scientists in the U.S. - In 1945, the American Association of University Women gave her their Annual Achievement Award. - In 1951, she received the important Francis Garvan Medal from the American Chemical Society. This was for her work on thin films. - Also in 1951, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce named her one of 15 "women of achievement." - The mayor of Schenectady honored her with "Katharine Blodgett Day" on June 13, 1951. This was because of all the honor she brought to her community. - In 1972, the Photographic Society of America gave her its Annual Achievement Award. - In 2007, she was added to the National Inventors Hall of Fame. - In 2008, an elementary school in Schenectady was named after her. She also received honorary doctorates from several colleges. These included Elmira College (1939), Western College (1942), Brown University (1942), and Russell Sage College (1944). These awards showed how important her work was and how she inspired others. Patents Katharine Blodgett held several U.S. patents for her inventions: - U.S. Patent 2,220,860 issued November 5, 1940: "Film Structure and Method of Preparation" - U.S. Patent 2,220,861 issued November 5, 1940: "Reduction of Surface Reflection" - U.S. Patent 2,220,862 issued November 5, 1940: "Low-Reflectance Glass" - U.S. Patent 2,493,745 issued January 10, 1950: "Electrical Indicator of Mechanical Expansion" (with Vincent J. Schaefer) - U.S. Patent 2,587,282 issued February 26, 1952: "Step Gauge for Measuring Thickness of Thin Films" - U.S. Patent 2,589,983 issued March 18, 1952: "Electrical Indicator of Mechanical Expansion" (with Vincent J. Schaefer) - U.S. Patent 2,597,562 issued May 20, 1952: "Electrically Conducting Layer" - U.S. Patent 2,636,832 issued April 28, 1953: "Method of Forming Semiconducting Layers on Glass and Article Formed Thereby" See also In Spanish: Katherine Blodgett para niños


--- [Katharine Burr Blodgett - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Katharine Burr Blodgett Invents Non-Reflective Glass - ThoughtCo] ---
Humanities › History & Culture › Inventions › Famous Inventors › Katharine Burr Blodgett Print History & Culture Inventions Famous Inventors Famous Inventions Patents & Trademarks Invention Timelines Computers & The Internet American History American History African American History African American History African History African History Ancient History and Culture Ancient History and Culture Asian History Asian History European History European History Genealogy Genealogy Inventions Latin American History Latin American History Medieval & Renaissance History Medieval & Renaissance History Military History Military History The 20th Century The 20th Century Women's History Women's History View More By Mary Bellis Mary Bellis Inventions Expert Mary Bellis covered inventions and inventors for ThoughtCo for 18 years. She is known for her independent films and documentaries, including one about Alexander Graham Bell. Learn about our Editorial Process Updated on May 29, 2019 Close Katherine Burr Blodgett (1898-1979) was a woman of many firsts. She was the first female scientist hired by General Electric’s Research Laboratory in Schenectady, New York (1917) as well as the first woman to earn a Ph.D. in Physics from Cambridge University (1926). She was the first woman to receive the Photographic Society of America Award, and the American Chemical Society honored her with the Francis P. Garvin Medal. Her most notable discovery was in how to produce non-reflective glass. Early Life of Katharine Burr Blodgett Blodgett's father was a patent lawyer and head of the patent department at General Electric. He was killed by a burglar a few months before she was born but left enough savings that the family was financially secure. After living in Paris, the family returned to New York where Blodgett attended private schools and Bryn Mawr College, excelling at mathematics and physics. She got her master's degree from the University of Chicago in 1918 with a thesis on the chemical structure of gas masks, determining that carbon would absorb most poisonous gasses. She then went to work for the General Electric Research Lab with Nobel Prize winner Dr. Irving Langmuir. She completed her Ph.D. at Cambridge University in 1926. Research at General Electric Blodgett’s research on monomolecular coatings with Langmuir led her to a revolutionary discovery. She discovered a way to apply the coatings layer by layer to glass and metal. These thin films naturally reduce glare on reflective surfaces. When layered to a certain thickness, they completely cancel out the reflection from the surface underneath. This resulted in the world’s first 100 percent transparent or invisible glass Katherine Blodgett’s patented film and process (1938) has been used for many purposes including limiting distortion in eyeglasses, microscopes, telescopes, camera, and projector lenses. Katherine Blodgett received U.S patent #2,220,660 on March 16, 1938, for the "Film Structure and Method of Preparation" or invisible, nonreflective glass. Katherine Blodgett also invented a special color gauge for measuring the thickness of these films of glass, since 35,000 layers of the film only added up to the thickness of a sheet of paper. Blodgett also made a breakthrough in developing smoke screens during World War II. Her process allowed less oil to be used as it was vaporized into molecular particles. In addition, she developed methods for deicing airplane wings. She published dozens of scientific papers over the course of her long career. Blodgett retired from General Electric in 1963. She did not marry and lived with Gertrude Brown for many years. She acted in the Schenectady Civic Players and lived on Lake George in the Adirondack Mountains. She died at home in 1979. Her awards include the Progress Medal from the Photographic Society of America, Garvan Medal of the American Chemical Society, American Physical Society Fellow, and Boston First Assembly of American Women of Achievement honored scientist. In 2007 she was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame. Patents Granted to Katharine Burr Blodgett U.S. Patent 2,220,860: 1940: "Film Structure and Method of Preparation"U.S. Patent 2,220,861: 1940: "Reduction of Surface Reflection"U.S. Patent 2,220,862: 1940: "Low-Reflectance Glass"U.S. Patent 2,493,745: 1950: "Electrical Indicator of Mechanical Expansion"U.S. Patent 2,587,282: 1952: "Step Gauge for Measuring Thickness of Thin Films"U.S. Patent 2,589,983: 1952: "Electrical Indicator of Mechanical Expansion"U.S. Patent 2,597,562: 1952: "Electrically Conducting Layer"U.S. Patent 2,636,832: 1953: "Method of Forming Semiconducting Layers on Glass and Article Formed Thereby" Cite this Article Format mla apa chicago Your Citation Bellis, Mary. "Katharine Burr Blodgett." ThoughtCo, Feb. 16, 2021, thoughtco.com/katharine-burr-blodgett-4074153. Bellis, Mary. (2021, February 16). Katharine Burr Blodgett. Retrieved from https://www.thoughtco.com/katharine-burr-blodgett-4074153 Bellis, Mary. "Katharine Burr Blodgett." ThoughtCo. https://www.thoughtco.com/katharine-burr-blodgett-4074153 (accessed March 4, 2026). copy citation


--- [Katharine Burr Blodgett - Wikipedia] ---
Katharine Burr Blodgett (January 10, 1898 – October 12, 1979) was an American physicist and chemist known for her work on surface chemistry, in particular her invention of "invisible" or nonreflective glass while working at General Electric. She was the first woman to be awarded a PhD in physics from the University of Cambridge, in 1926.


--- [This Month in Physics History - American Physical Society] ---
Blodgett (center) demonstrating surface chemistry experiments for visitors at the opening of General Electric’s new Research Laboratory building Many things became much clearer in 1938 after Katharine Blodgett developed anti-reflective coatings for glass. Uncoated glass is far from invisible. It reflects a significant amount of the light that hits it, creating distortion and glare. Blodgett, a physicist at General Electric laboratories, developed a method of coating glass with a soapy film that would eliminate most of those reflections. Her insight led to the practical ant-reflective coatings that now coat picture glass, windshields, eyeglasses, camera lenses and much more. Blodgett received a patent for the process in March 1938, and GE announced the discovery in December of that year. Katharine Burr Blodgett was born in Schenectady, NY, in 1898. Her father, a patent attorney at General Electric, died shortly before she was born, and the family moved several times during her childhood. She attended Bryn Mawr College, and during her senior year, Blodgett visited GE to tour the labs. Her tour guide was Irving Langmuir, who had known her father. He encouraged her to pursue further studies in chemistry and physics. After receiving a master’s degree from the University of Chicago in 1918, Blodgett returned to GE to work as Langmuir’s assistant. Langmuir, who went on to win the Nobel Prize in chemistry, was at the time opening up a new field of research by developing a way to produce uniform one-molecule thick oily films on a water surface. After Blodgett had worked for a few years as his assistant, Langmuir encouraged her to continue her education still further. In 1924 she went to Cambridge University, where she worked with Ernest Rutherford and wrote a thesis on the topic of gaseous electronics. She was the first woman to receive a PhD in physics from Cambridge. She returned to the United States in 1926 and rejoined the staff of GE as a research scientist. At first, she collaborated with Langmuir on some improvements to light bulbs, and then in 1933 they began working again on surface films. The monolayer films were well understood by this time, so Blodgett and Langmuir began building up thicker films to study. Blodgett developed a way to transfer the soap film from a water surface to a solid surface such as metal or glass, and found that by repeating the process she could build up films of barium stearate layer by layer, up to about 3000 layers. These became known as Langmuir-Blodgett films. Blodgett then began looking for some applications for the films. She noticed that even the clearest glass reflected as much as 10 percent of incident light, making it difficult to see through. Blodgett realized her soapy films could solve that problem. Since she could precisely control the thickness of the soapy films by building them up one molecular layer at a time, and could easily deposit the films on a glass surface, Blodgett figured out that she could develop a coating of just the right thickness to cancel out most reflections from the glass surface. She built up a film with thickness equal to ¼ the average wavelength of visible light (about 1388 Angstroms). This way, any light that reflected off the glass surface would have traveled half a wavelength farther than light that had reflected off the film surface, so most of the reflections would cancel out. Blodgett also tweaked the chemical composition of the film to adjust its index of refraction to enhance the reflection-canceling, and she was able to eliminate almost all of the reflection, making the glass nearly invisible. On March 16, 1938, Blodgett received US patent #2,220,660 for the “Film Structure and Method of Preparation.” This was one of six patents Blodgett received in her lifetime. She also published a paper titled “Use of Interference to Extinguish Reflection of Light from Glass,” in the Physical Review in 1939. General Electric announced the discovery in December 1938, and it immediately caused a lot of excitement. Blodgett and her “invisible glass,” as the popular press called it, were featured in Time, Life, and The New York Times. The public’s fascination with Blodgett and her work may have been due in part to the fact that she was a woman in science, which was still very unusual at the time. During WWII, Blodgett contributed to the war research by developing poison gas absorbents, a method for de-icing aircraft wings, and improved smokescreens. She also developed a “color gauge” to measure the thickness of coatings, conducted more research on films, studied electrically conducting glass, and developed a way to use electrical discharges in gases to clean solid surfaces of impurities, a method that is used in semiconductor device fabrication. Blodgett retired in 1963 after a long career at GE. She died in 1979 at age 81, having received numerous awards for her work, though she was conspicuously left out of a 1953 article in Science celebrating 75 years of research at GE laboratories. Blodgett’s original soap coatings were not useful for commercial products because they were too soft and could easily be wiped off the glass surface. Soon after her announcement, however, other groups developed durable coatings and improved methods of production. These coatings have been reducing reflections from eyeglasses, picture glass, camera lenses, microscopes, windshields, televisions and computer screens ever since.
