=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Srinagar: A UNESCO Creative City - Rethinking The Future]
A11573-Srinagar A UNESCO Creative City Srinagar is an example of how the building crafts have a great potential to develop the city and bring it to an international level. Developing local building crafts also goes hand in hand with drives like ‘One District One Product.’ ‘Vocal for Local’, etc. India is full of such crafts.
URL: https://www.re-thinkingthefuture.com/architectural-community/srinagar-a-unesco-creative-city/

[‘Srinagar’ joins UNESCO’s Creative Cities Network 2021]
Nov 9, 2021 · On 8th November 2021, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) selected India’s Srinagar,a capital of Jammu & Kashmir as one among the 49 cities selected under UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) for 2021.Srinagar becomes the sixth Indian City to receive this recognition.
URL: https://affairscloud.com/srinagar-joins-unescos-creative-cities-network/

[Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City ...]
Nov 8, 2021 · The UNESCO creative city network involves seven creative fields arts and folk art, media, film, literature, design, gastronomy and Media arts. The dossier for nomination for Srinagar as the Creative city was first filed by Srinagar in the year 2019, however, only 2 cities, Hyderabad for Gastronomy and Mumbai for Film were chosen during that year.
URL: https://www.zee5.com/articles/srinagar-joins-unesco-creative-cities-network-2021-as-city-of-craft-and-folk-art

[Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City ...]
Nov 8, 2021 · The inclusion of Srinagar in the creative city network for the arts and crafts has paved a way for the city to represent its handicrafts on the global stage through UNESCO. This was announced on UNESCO's official website wherein 49 cities have joined this elite list.
URL: https://www.lokmattimes.com/national/srinagar-joins-unesco-creative-cities-network-2021-as-city-of-craft-and-folk-art/

[Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City ...]
Srinagar (Jammu and Kashmir) [India], November 8 (ANI): In a major recognition of the crafts and arts of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar on Monday joined the UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) 2021 ...
URL: https://www.aninews.in/news/national/general-news/srinagar-joins-unesco-creative-cities-network-2021-as-city-of-craft-and-folk-art20211108223156/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Srinagar: A UNESCO Creative City - Rethinking The Future] ---
On World Cities Day, 2023, 55 cities globally joined the list of UNESCO Creative Cities. UNESCO Creative Cities Network is a UNESCO project which was launched in 2004. The project aims to promote cooperation among cities of the world whose means for sustainable urban development are culture and creativity. These cities tend to share quality knowledge and practices related to the same. The development is observed in the economic, social, cultural, and environmental sense. These cities tend to promote cultural industries and enhance the participation of the people in cultural life. Srinagar bagged the title of the UNESCO Creative City under Crafts and Folk Art on November 8, 2021. The artistic and cultural wealth of the city owes to its presence on the historic silk route, which provided for the exchange of ideas. According to historical records, when Sikander’s son Sultan Zain-ul Abidin ruled Kashmir in the 15th Century A.D., artisans and crafts men were invited to Kashmir from different parts of Islamic culture, to practice various crafts. The crafts industries were reorganized and the Mughals set up the royal ‘Karkhanas’ in the 16th century. These ‘Karkhanas’ carried on to gain the support of the Dogra rulers who reigned over the region in the 19th and 20th centuries. Later, local artisans developed their own new ways to practice these crafts, inspired by the natural charm of the place. The dossier of Srinagar focuses on 7 crafts from the city; four of which are building crafts – Papier-Mache, Khatamband, Walnut wood carving, and Pinjrakari (latticework), and 3 of them are GI tagged. Papier-Mache work Sakhtsazi, Naqashi, Koshur Kagaz The Papier-Mache craft was introduced to the valley of Kashmir by a Sufi saint Mir Sayyid Ali Hamadani in the 14th century. He, along with many skilled crafts men reached Kashmir from Persia. Being one of the oldest handicrafts, it reflects the nature and life of Kashmir and is an inseparable part of Kashmiri culture. The process is done manually and includes two steps – Sakhtsazi and Naqashi. Sakthasaz makes objects with paper pulp, with the help of other materials like cloth, rice straw, and copper sulfate. Naqqash deals with the task of painting on the pulp surface. Organic colors are used for painting. Before painting, a solution of glue and white gypsum is applied to the surface. Once the surface dries, a wet stone is used to polish it to give it a smooth finish. The brush used for the purpose is made of the hair of a pashmina goat. Along with small objects and figurines, the art is used for the ornamentation of walls and ceilings of the buildings. A smooth surface out of paper pulp is made on the wooden walls and ceiling. Then, a layer of polished Kashmiri paper of Koshur Kagaz is applied. It creates a fine surface to do the painting. The prime example of this art being used as an architectural element is the Shah Hamdan Mosque in Srinagar. The designs have been inspired by Kashmiri flora and fauna; designs on the Kani shawl, etc. Khatamband Posh, Gaj Patti In Persian, ‘Khatam’ means enclosure which represents a polygon. This polygon is continuous and does not end at a certain point. ‘Bandh’ means close. These two words when joined together (Khatambandh), mean joining polygons together close to each other such that they form an enclosure and continue to infinity. Khatamband is a building craft of making a false ceiling, attached to a wooden ceiling for decoration purpose. The art consists of two constituent pieces – the polygonal pieces called ‘Posh’ and the wooden beading called the ‘Gaj Patti.’ Fir wood that is locally available and light in weight is used to make the pieces. The geometric pieces are attached to the ceiling only by interlocking without any use of glue and nails. Nails are used to support the whole grid at critical points. Once complete, it gives the impression of an illusion. It is like various geometric patterns merge into each other. Walnut wood carving Walnut trees, dun The craft of walnut wood carving is supposed to be brought to the valley in the 15th century by Sheikh Hamza Makhdoom. The craft is unique to the region of Kashmir due to the abundance of Walnut trees in the region, locally known as ‘dun.’ The even texture and fine-grained nature of the wood allow for various carvings from shallow carving which is half inches deep to deep carving which is two inches deep is done on the wood. Carving can be done on the roots, trunk, and branches of the tree. However, the root is the most suitable part as it is the strongest. Earlier, it could be seen only in palaces and high-end residential units, like the Naqshband mosque, the Razdani Palace of Zain ul Abidin, the shrine of Nund Rishi, etc. But now, smaller objects are also made and carved out of this wood. Pinjarakari Lattice, Fine sections The introduction of this craft to the valley of Kashmir is also attributed to the Sufi saint Shah Hamadani. It is the art of making lattices by interlocking crisscross thin wooden battens. The wood of Himalayan blue pine, Himalayan silver fir, and walnut are used for the craft. They find their place in the partitions, ventilators, parapets, windows, balconies, etc. of Kashmiri architecture. Apart from being aesthetically pleasing, they have a function too. They offer privacy to the user. Fine sections having a thickness of 5 mm and a width of 1.8 mm are used in the formation of lattices. This fineness makes it different from other lattice crafts such as wood, stone, and metal. Srinagar is an example of how the building crafts have a great potential to develop the city and bring it to an international level. Developing local building crafts also goes hand in hand with drives like ‘One District One Product.’ ‘Vocal for Local’, etc. India is full of such crafts. If they are focused on, the problem of unemployment can be solved and the cities can have one more dimension to develop, that too in a sustainable manner. References: BYJUS. (n.d.). Geographical Indications in India 2023 – List of GI Tag Products. [online] Available at: https://byjus.com/free-ias-prep/geographical-indication-tags-in-india [Accessed 10 Nov. 2023] Google Arts & Culture. (n.d.). The Style and Sophistication of Papier-Mâché. [online] Available at: https://artsandculture.google.com/story/ywUhrpCzm4WtLw?hl=en [Accessed 10 Nov. 2023] gaatha.com. (2023). A Puzzle to solve. [online] Available at: https://gaatha.com/khatamband-craft-kashmir [Accessed 10 Nov. 2023 gaatha.com. (2023). Sieves that sprinkle Stars in my room… [online] Available at: https://gaatha.com/pinjra-kari [Accessed 10 Nov. 2023] gaatha.com. (2023). The story of Boxes. [online] Available at: https://gaatha.com/kari-kalamdani-papier-mache-painting-kashmir [Accessed 10 Nov. 2023] Hindustan Times. (2021). UNESCO’s network of creative cities: Srinagar is now newest member. [online] Available at: https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unescos-network-of-creative-cities-srinagar-is-now-newest-member-101636388822092.html [Accessed 10 Nov. 2023]


--- [‘Srinagar’ joins UNESCO’s Creative Cities Network 2021] ---
On 8th November 2021, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) selected India’s Srinagar,a capital of Jammu & Kashmir as one among the 49 cities selected under UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) for 2021.Srinagar becomes the sixth Indian City to receive this recognition. - Srinagar is selected under the craft and folk arts category. - Other Cities included in 2021 UCCN – Abu Dhabi (UAE), Doha (Qatar) and Bursa (Turkey) Other Indian Cities under UCCN List: - Jaipur – Crafts and Folk Arts(2015) - Varanasi-Creative city of Music (2015) - Chennai-Creative city of Music(2017) - Mumbai – Film (2019) - Hyderabad – Gastronomy (2019) About UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN): UCCN was created in 2004 by UNESCO as a part of its 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Objective – To promote Cities with creativity and cultural industries at the heart of their development plans at the local level & cooperating actively at the international level. i.Till date, 295 cities reaching 90 countries were added to the network that are selected under one of the 7 designated Fields. - 7 Fields – Crafts and Folk Arts, Media Arts, Film, Design, Gastronomy, Literature and Music. ii.All UCCN cities will develop urban policies and solutions which will be published in the Urban Solutions launched by UNESCO Cities Platform on the World Cities Day (31st October). Recent Related News: Kakatiya Rudreshwar Temple (also known as Ramappa Temple) at Warangal, Telangana became the 39th World Heritage Site of India & the 1st Heritage site from Telangana. About UNESCO Director General – Audrey Azoulay Headquarters – Paris, France


--- [Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City ...] ---
No content


--- [Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City ...] ---
Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City of Craft and Folk Art' By ANI | Updated: November 8, 2021 22:40 IST2021-11-08T22:31:52+5:302021-11-08T22:40:02+5:30 In a major recognition of the crafts and arts of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar on Monday joined the UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) 2021, under the Crafts and Folk Arts category. In a major recognition of the crafts and arts of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar on Monday joined the UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) 2021, under the Crafts and Folk Arts category. The inclusion of Srinagar in the creative city network for the arts and crafts has paved a way for the city to represent its handicrafts on the global stage through UNESCO. This was announced on UNESCO's official website wherein 49 cities have joined this elite list. The exercise for UNESCO nomination was started by Jammu and Kashmir in 2018 however our nomination was not accepted then. This year the exercise of Dossier preparation began in the month of May. The government of India Ministry of Culture received four nominations which included Two from Madhya Pradesh Gwalior and Indore and one from West Bengal (Calcutta ) and one from Jammu and Kashmir (Srinagar). The government of India rejected the application of Calcutta and Indore and forwarded only two nominations which included Srinagar and Gwalior. The Centre recommended the nomination of Gwalior for the Creative City of Music and Srinagar for the Creative City of Craft and Folk arts to UNESCO on June 29, 2021. The nomination of Gwalior was rejected and that of Srinagar was accepted. This nomination is the global recognition of the rich craft legacy of Srinagar and will help us in attracting Craft Connoisseurs to Jammu and Kashmir and particularly Srinagar. The UNESCO creative city network involves seven creative fields arts and folk art, media, film, literature, design, gastronomy and Media arts. The dossier for nomination for Srinagar as the Creative city was first filed by Srinagar in the year 2019, however, only 2 cities, Hyderabad for Gastronomy and Mumbai for Film were chosen during that year. Prior to the year 2019, only three Indian cities have been recognised as members of UCCN for creative cities namely, Jaipur (Crafts and Folk Arts) in 2015, Varanasi (Creative city of Music) in 2015 and Chennai (Creative city of Music) in 2017. For the year 2020 UNESCO did not call for applications for creative city network. Chief Executive Officer, Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project, JKERA, Dr Abid Rashid Shah, said that process of nomination of Srinagar under the UNESCO Creative City Network was undertaken and funded under the World Bank Funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project. This is the recognition of the historical Crafts and Arts of the City. "It is a proud moment for all of us. World Bank, Jhelum and Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP) and Department of Industries did a remarkable job in projecting the city in this regard," said Dr Shah. Director, Technical, Planning and Coordination, JTFRP, Iftikhaar Hakeem, said that credit must go to JTFRP, Department of Industries and line departments for taking up the task positively. He said consultants were hired and work was taken up in this regard to fulfilling all the requirements. ( With inputs from ANI ) Disclaimer: This post has been auto-published from an agency feed without any modifications to the text and has not been reviewed by an editor Open in app


--- [Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City ...] ---
Srinagar (Jammu and Kashmir) [India], November 8 (ANI): In a major recognition of the crafts and arts of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar on Monday joined the UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) 2021, under the Crafts and Folk Arts category. The inclusion of Srinagar in the creative city network for the arts and crafts has paved a way for the city to represent its handicrafts on the global stage through UNESCO. This was announced on UNESCO's official website wherein 49 cities have joined this elite list. The exercise for UNESCO nomination was started by Jammu and Kashmir in 2018 however our nomination was not accepted then. This year the exercise of Dossier preparation began in the month of May. The government of India Ministry of Culture received four nominations which included Two from Madhya Pradesh Gwalior and Indore and one from West Bengal (Calcutta ) and one from Jammu and Kashmir (Srinagar). The government of India rejected the application of Calcutta and Indore and forwarded only two nominations which included Srinagar and Gwalior. The Centre recommended the nomination of Gwalior for the Creative City of Music and Srinagar for the Creative City of Craft and Folk arts to UNESCO on June 29, 2021. The nomination of Gwalior was rejected and that of Srinagar was accepted. This nomination is the global recognition of the rich craft legacy of Srinagar and will help us in attracting Craft Connoisseurs to Jammu and Kashmir and particularly Srinagar. The UNESCO creative city network involves seven creative fields arts and folk art, media, film, literature, design, gastronomy and Media arts. The dossier for nomination for Srinagar as the Creative city was first filed by Srinagar in the year 2019, however, only 2 cities, Hyderabad for Gastronomy and Mumbai for Film were chosen during that year. Prior to the year 2019, only three Indian cities have been recognised as members of UCCN for creative cities namely, Jaipur (Crafts and Folk Arts) in 2015, Varanasi (Creative city of Music) in 2015 and Chennai (Creative city of Music) in 2017. For the year 2020 UNESCO did not call for applications for creative city network. Chief Executive Officer, Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project, JKERA, Dr Abid Rashid Shah, said that process of nomination of Srinagar under the UNESCO Creative City Network was undertaken and funded under the World Bank Funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project. This is the recognition of the historical Crafts and Arts of the City. "It is a proud moment for all of us. World Bank, Jhelum and Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP) and Department of Industries did a remarkable job in projecting the city in this regard," said Dr Shah. Director, Technical, Planning and Coordination, JTFRP, Iftikhaar Hakeem, said that credit must go to JTFRP, Department of Industries and line departments for taking up the task positively. He said consultants were hired and work was taken up in this regard to fulfilling all the requirements. (ANI) Srinagar joins UNESCO Creative Cities Network 2021 as 'City of Craft and Folk Art' ANI | Updated: Nov 08, 2021 22:31 IST
