=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Robert J. Mrazek - Wikipedia]
Robert Jan Mrazek (born November 6, 1945) is an American author, filmmaker, and former politician. He served as a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives, representing New York's 3rd congressional district on Long Island for most of the 1980s.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_J._Mrazek

[Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- - Encyclopedia.com]
MRAZEK, Robert J. 1945-PERSONAL:Born November 6, 1945, in Newport, RI; son of Harold Richard and Blanche Rose Mrazek; married Catherine Susan Gurick, March 31, 1971 ...
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/arts/educational-magazines/mrazek-robert-j-1945

[about the author - A Dawn Like Thunder]
Robert is the father of two grown children, daughter Susannah Rose Mrazek and son James Nicholas Mrazek. He resides in Ithaca, NY with his wife Carolyn and their two terribly spoiled cats.
URL: http://adawnlikethunder.net/author.html

[Winds of War - Cornell Alumni Magazine]
Rick is the narrator and protagonist of And the Sparrow Fell, a new novel by former U.S. Congressman and longtime author Robert Mrazek '67. And to some extent, he's Mrazek's alter ego: Rick's experience in being disillusioned by America's involvement in Vietnam—going from gung-ho Navy enlistee to embittered antiwar protester—mirrors Mrazek's own. "I had those romantic ...
URL: https://cornellalumnimagazine.com/winds-of-war/

[Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- (Bob Mrazek) - Encyclopedia.com]
Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- (Bob Mrazek)PERSONAL:Born November 6, 1945, in Newport, RI; son of Harold Richard and Blanche Rose Mrazek; married Catherine Susan Gurick, March 31, 1971; children: Susannah Rose, James Nicholas.
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/arts/educational-magazines/mrazek-robert-j-1945-bob-mrazek


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Robert J. Mrazek - Wikipedia] ---
Robert Jan Mrazek (born November 6, 1945) is an American author, filmmaker, and former politician. He served as a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives, representing New York's 3rd congressional district on Long Island for most of the 1980s.  Since leaving Congress, Mrazek has authored fourteen books, earning the W. Y. Boyd Literary Award for Excellence in Military Fiction from the American Library Association, the Michael Shaara award for Civil War fiction,  and Best Book (American History) from the Washington Post.   He also wrote and co-directed the 2016 feature film The Congressman, which received the Breakout Achievement Award at the AARP's Film Awards in 2017.


--- [Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- MRAZEK, Robert J. 1945- PERSONAL: Born November 6, 1945, in Newport, RI; son of Harold Richard and Blanche Rose Mrazek; married Catherine Susan Gurick, March 31, 1971; children: Susannah Rose, James Nicholas. Education: Cornell University, B.A. (government), 1967. ADDRESSES: Home—RR 2, Box 195, Broadway, VA 22815. Agent—c/o Author Mail, St. Martin's Press, 175 Fifth Ave., New York, NY 10010. CAREER: Congressman, writer. Special assistant to U.S. Senator Vance Hartke, Washington, DC, 1969-71; Town of Huntington, NY, special projects coordinator, 1971; member of New York state legislature for Suffolk County, Hauppauge, NY, 1975-82, minority leader, 1979-82; member of the U.S. House of Representatives, Third District, New York, five terms, 1983-93. Youth Development Association, Huntington Village, NY, board of directors, 1971-76, president, 1972-74. Military service: U.S. Navy, 1967-68. WRITINGS: Stonewall's Gold: A Novel, maps by Martie Holmer, St. Martin's Press (New York, NY), 1999. Unholy Fire: A Novel of the Civil War, Thomas Dunne Books (New York, NY), 2003. ADAPTATIONS: Stonewall's Gold was adapted for audio (six cassettes), read by Jeff Woodman, Recorded Books, 1999. SIDELIGHTS: Robert J. Mrazek's books have been published in the years after his time spent in the U.S. House of Representatives, where he served five terms, representing his constituents on Long Island, in New York's Third District. Mrazek was scrutinized on a number of occasions, once, as Forbes contributor Edward Giltenan wrote, because he was "identified as the incumbent who overdrew his House bank account the most times, with almost 1,000 overdrafts over twenty-three months." Questions also arose over the purchase of St. Pierres Island in the Bahamas, which Mrazek acquired in partnership with a number of other Democratic congressmen. Mrazek was coauthor of a bill to prevent the Manassas Civil War Battlefield from being turned over to developers, and his interest in, and knowledge of, the Civil War period is reflected in his writing. His first book, Stonewall's Gold: A Novel, is presented as a manuscript discovered in a Harrisonburg, Virginia, courthouse, and "irresistibly combines the classic motifs of Civil War, buried treasure and romantic heroism," noted a Publishers Weekly contributor. The setting is Shenandoah Valley during the final winter of the war. Fifteen-year-old Jamie Lockhart's father has gone to fight, and his mother takes in a boarder to earn the money they need to survive. When the man attempts to rape her, Jamie kills him, after which they find a map of a treasure site called "the Mouth of the Devil" among the dead man's possessions. The treasure is several crates of gold that was seized by the Union from the Confederates in 1861, then stolen back by a group of Confederate officers who kept it hidden, hoping that by the time the war ended, it would have been forgotten. Jamie, now the only one with a map to the gold, is pursued by the last remaining member of this group, along with his band of cutthroats. Another group that wants the gold intends to use it for the betterment of newly emancipated slaves. Jamie, who wants to deliver the gold to General Robert E. Lee to help the rebel cause, is joined by Katherine Dandridge, whose father has been killed by the Confederate deserters who are pursuing Jamie. The Publishers Weekly writer concluded by saying that Mrazek's tale "possesses a compelling narrative drive. His sense of landscape is expert, and his cast of heroes and villains is complete." A Kirkus Reviews critic called Stonewall's Gold "a deft and fast-paced historical adventure" and "a gripping, well-researched, and vivid debut." Unholy Fire: A Novel of the Civil War is about Union officer John "Kit" McKittredge, a Harvard senior who enlists and is commissioned as a lieutenant. When Kit receives what seems to be a mortal stomach wound, the doctors decide to ease his pain during his last days with laudanum. Astonishingly, Kit survives but with a serious drug addiction. He is reassigned to investigate corruption and crime in Washington, D.C., but when he delves into his first case, involving companies who sold defective ammunition to the army, he is warned by a stranger, then a congressman, not to pursue the case. He ignores them and continues, but is soon involved with the murder of a prostitute with ties to members of government and who was last seen with Union General Joseph Hooker. Kit is buying opium on the black market to feed his addiction but is saved from self-destruction by Colonel Valentine Burdette, who believes in him and joins him in investigating crooked military officers and politicians. Central to the plot is Kit's love for a friend of the dead woman, also a prostitute. Booklist's Margaret Flanagan wrote that Mrazek's story "underscores the brutal nature of both the physical and psychological casualties associated with war." A Kirkus Reviews writer called Unholy Fire "tautly gripping, with vividly malevolent characters and some excellent historical color." A Publishers Weekly contributor wrote that "Mrazek's portrayal of Civil War battle is stark, graphic, bloody and exciting, and is only exceeded by his memorable description of Washington, D.C., as a Gomorrah on the Potomac." BIOGRAPHICAL AND CRITICAL SOURCES: PERIODICALS Booklist, December 15, 1998, Gilbert Taylor, review of Stonewall's Gold: A Novel, p. 1481; March 1, 2003, Margaret Flanagan, review of Unholy Fire: A Novel of the Civil War, p. 1147. Forbes, April 1, 1991, James R. Norman, "Shrewd Timing?," p. 46; April 13, 1992, Edward Giltenan, "Mrazek's Folly," p. 14. Kirkus Reviews, November 15, 1998, review of Stonewall's Gold, p. 1627; February 1, 2003, review of Unholy Fire, p. 171. Publishers Weekly, November 9, 1998, review of Stonewall's Gold, p. 57; March 17, 2003, review of Unholy Fire, p. 51. School Library Journal, April, 1999, Molly Connally, review of Stonewall's Gold, p. 161.*


--- [about the author - A Dawn Like Thunder] ---
ABOUT THE AUTHOR Robert J. Mrazek is a former five term U.S. Congressman who authored laws to protect the Tongass National Forest in Alaska and the Manassas Civil War battlefield in Virginia. He also wrote the Amerasian Homecoming act, which brought home the children of American military personnel from Vietnam, and the National Film Preservation Act, which established the National Film Registry in the Library of Congress. Since his retirement from Congress, he has served on the boards of numerous charitable organizations. He is a cofounder of the Alaska Wilderness League and served as its chairman for ten years. In 1999, his novel Stonewall’s Gold won the Michael Shaara prize for the best Civil War novel of the year. In 2007, his third novel, The Deadly Embrace, earned the W.Y. Boyd prize for excellence in military fiction. His books have been published in fourteen countries around the world. Robert is the father of two grown children, daughter Susannah Rose Mrazek and son James Nicholas Mrazek. He resides in Ithaca, NY with his wife Carolyn and their two terribly spoiled cats. BOB ON BECOMING A WRITER Very few former members of Congress have ever decided to become working novelists after leaving public life. In fact, I may be the only one. Looking back on my life, I believe I was a writer who became a politician, rather than a Congressman who eventually turned to writing fiction as a second profession. I’ve been writing stories since I was ten years old, and enjoyed pursuing this craft all through college. In 1968, I had just gotten out of the Navy after being placed on the disabled-retired list following a training accident at Officer’s Candidate School. I had spent two months in Newport Naval Hospital, sharing a ward with badly wounded Marines who had been evacuated from Vietnam. After seeing first hand the human cost of the war in Vietnam, I was deeply disheartened, and decided to leave the country to attend the London Film School. Within five months, Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert Kennedy had been assassinated. Suddenly, my goal of writing fiction and making films abroad seemed trivial compared to the convulsive upheaval that was taking place at home. My anger over the Vietnam War and its aftermath carried me a long way in politics. Yet, during my seventeen years in elective office, I never stopped writing. With four novels and one non-fiction book now completed since leaving public life, I’m as proud of the awards that my books have received as the legislation I authored in Congress. One thing I never expected to confront after leaving Congress was the idea that my son James would end up volunteering to fight in a war that was in some ways similar to the one I volunteered for in May 1967. But that’s what happened. The writing phase of A Dawn Like Thunder took place during the fifteen months that he was deployed at a forward operating base south of Baghdad. A Dawn Like Thunder is dedicated to him. |


--- [Winds of War - Cornell Alumni Magazine] ---
No content


--- [Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- (Bob Mrazek) - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- (Bob Mrazek) Mrazek, Robert J. 1945- (Bob Mrazek) PERSONAL: Born November 6, 1945, in Newport, RI; son of Harold Richard and Blanche Rose Mrazek; married Catherine Susan Gurick, March 31, 1971; children: Susannah Rose, James Nicholas. Education: Cornell University, B.A., 1967. ADDRESSES: Office—RR 2, Box 195, Broadway, VA, 22815. CAREER: Congressperson, government official, and writer. Special assistant to U.S. Senator Vance Hartke, Washington, DC, 1969-71; Town of Huntington, NY, special projects coordinator, 1971; member of New York state legislature for Suffolk County, Hauppauge, NY, 1975-82, minority leader, 1979-82; member of the U.S. House of Representatives, Third District, New York, five terms, 1983-93. Youth Development Association, Huntington Village, NY, board of directors, 1971-76, president, 1972-74. Military service: U.S. Navy, 1967-68. WRITINGS: NOVELS Stonewall's Gold, maps by Martie Holmer, St. Martin's Press (New York, NY), 1999. Unholy Fire: A Novel of the Civil War, Thomas Dunne Books (New York, NY), 2003. The Deadly Embrace: A Novel of World War II, Viking (New York, NY), 2006. ADAPTATIONS: Stonewall's Gold was adapted for audio (six cassettes), read by Jeff Woodman, Recorded Books, 1999. SIDELIGHTS: Robert J. Mrazek's books have been published in the years after his time spent in the U.S. House of Representatives, where he served five terms, representing his constituents on Long Island, in New York's Third District. Mrazek was scrutinized on a number of occasions, once, as Forbes contributor Edward Giltenan wrote, because he was "identified as the incumbent who overdrew his House bank account the most times, with almost 1,000 overdrafts over twenty-three months." Questions also arose over the purchase of St. Pierres Island in the Bahamas, which Mrazek acquired in partnership with a number of other Democratic congressmen. Mrazek was coauthor of a bill to prevent the Manassas Civil War Battlefield from being turned over to developers, and his interest in, and knowledge of, the Civil War period is reflected in his writing. His first book, Stonewall's Gold, is presented as a manuscript discovered in a Harrisonburg, Virginia, courthouse, and "irresistibly combines the classic motifs of Civil War, buried treasure and romantic heroism," noted a Publishers Weekly contributor. The setting is the Shenandoah Valley during the final winter of the war. Fifteen-year-old Jamie Lockhart's father has gone to fight, and his mother takes in a boarder to earn the money they need to survive. When the man attempts to rape her, Jamie kills him, after which they find a map of a treasure site called "the Mouth of the Devil" among the dead man's possessions. The treasure is several crates of gold that was seized by the Union from the Confederates in 1861, then stolen back by a group of Confederate officers who kept it hidden, hoping that by the time the war ended, it would have been forgotten. Jamie, now the only one with a map to the gold, is pursued by the last remaining member of this group, along with his band of cutthroats. Another group that wants the gold intends to use it for the betterment of newly emancipated slaves. Jamie, who wants to deliver the gold to General Robert E. Lee to help the rebel cause, is joined by Katherine Dandridge, whose father has been killed by the Confederate deserters who are pursuing Jamie. The Publishers Weekly writer concluded by saying that Mrazek's tale "possesses a compelling narrative drive. His sense of landscape is expert, and his cast of heroes and villains is complete." A Kirkus Reviews contributor called Stonewall's Gold "a deft and fast-paced historical adventure" and "a gripping, well-researched, and vivid debut." Unholy Fire: A Novel of the Civil War is about Union officer John "Kit" McKittredge, a Harvard senior who enlists and is commissioned as a lieutenant. When Kit receives what seems to be a mortal stomach wound, the doctors decide to ease his pain during his last days with laudanum. Astonishingly, Kit survives but with a serious drug addiction. He is reassigned to investigate corruption and crime in Washington, DC, but when he delves into his first case, involving companies who sold defective ammunition to the army, he is warned by a stranger, then a congressman, not to pursue the case. He ignores them and continues, but is soon involved with the murder of a prostitute with ties to members of government and who was last seen with Union General Joseph Hooker. Kit is buying opium on the black market to feed his addiction but is saved from self-destruction by Colonel Valentine Burdette, who believes in him and joins him in investigating crooked military officers and politicians. Central to the plot is Kit's love for a friend of the dead woman, also a prostitute. Booklist reviewer Margaret Flanagan wrote that Mrazek's story "underscores the brutal nature of both the physical and psychological casualties associated with war." A Kirkus Reviews contributor called Unholy Fire "tautly gripping, with vividly malevolent characters and some excellent historical color." A Publishers Weekly contributor wrote that "Mrazek's portrayal of Civil War battle is stark, graphic, bloody and exciting, and is only exceeded by his memorable description of Washington, DC, as a Gomorrah on the Potomac." The author remains focused on history, albeit more recent history, with his book The Deadly Embrace: A Novel of World War II. The story revolves around Elizabeth "Lisa" Marantz, who has joined the WACS as a second lieutenant and finds herself stationed in London as part of the Military Security Command. Lisa and her colleagues are charged with keeping the Germans from finding out anything about the upcoming D-Day plans for the invasion of Europe. However, when two of Lisa's female colleagues who are generals' mistresses are found murdered, Lisa is assigned to work with former homicide detective Major Sam Taggart to discover the murderer or murderers and to make sure the Allies' invasion plans have not been compromised. A Kirkus Reviews contributor wrote that the author "tells a dark, meaty story, ripely cast with members of the U.S. top brass and the British upper crust." A Publishers Weekly reviewer commented that "Mrazek plans and executes a clever entertainment." BIOGRAPHICAL AND CRITICAL SOURCES: PERIODICALS Booklist, December 15, 1998, Gilbert Taylor, review of Stonewall's Gold, p. 1481; March 1, 2003, Margaret Flanagan, review of Unholy Fire: A Novel of the Civil War, p. 1147. Forbes, April 1, 1991, James R. Norman, "Shrewd Timing?," p. 46; April 13, 1992, Edward Giltenan, "Mrazek's Folly," p. 14. Kirkus Reviews, November 15, 1998, review of Stonewall's Gold, p. 1627; February 1, 2003, review of Unholy Fire, p. 171; January 1, 2006, review of The Deadly Embrace: A Novel of World War II, p. 12. Publishers Weekly, November 9, 1998, review of Stonewall's Gold, p. 57; March 17, 2003, review of Unholy Fire, p. 51; December 19, 2005, review of The Deadly Embrace, p. 39. School Library Journal, April, 1999, Molly Connally, review of Stonewall's Gold, p. 161. ONLINE MyShelf.com,http://www.myshelf.com/ (June 5, 2007), Robert J. Mrazek, review of The Deadly Embrace.
