=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[So Who Bought Andy Warhol’s Marilyn for Nearly $200 Million?]
May 12, 2022 · On Monday night at Christie’s New York, Larry Gagosian lifted his hand and spent $195 million of someone ’s money on a single work of art, Andy Warhol’s Shot Sage Blue Marilyn.
URL: https://www.vanityfair.com/style/2022/05/andy-warhol-marilyn-mystery-buyer

[Why Larry Gagosian Bought Andy Warhol's Marilyn Monroe ... - Forbes]
May 10, 2022 · W hen the gavel came down Monday evening at Christie’s for Andy Warhol’s 1964 portrait of Marilyn Monroe, the $195 million price broke multiple auction records, including a new high for the ...
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/carlieporterfield/2022/05/10/why-larry-gagosian-bought-andy-warhols-marilyn-monroe-portrait-for-a-record-195-million/

[Warhol's Portrait of Marilyn Monroe Sells for $195 M. at Auction]
Andy Warhol's 'Shot Sage Blue Marilyn' (1964) sold for $195 million at Christie's in New York to art dealer Larry Gagosian.
URL: https://www.artnews.com/art-news/market/warhols-portrait-of-marilyn-monroe-sells-195-m-1234628168/

[Warhol's 'Marilyn' Sells for Record-Shattering $195 Million]
May 10, 2022 · One of Andy Warhol's iconic Marilyn Monroe portraits has become the most expensive 20th-century artwork ever to sell at auction. The 40-square-inch Shot Sage Blue Marilyn, one of dozens of images the artist made of Monroe in the 1960s, sold for a record $195 million Monday night at Christie's in New York.
URL: https://www.antiquetrader.com/auctions/warhols-marilyn-portrait-sells-for-record-195-million

[BOUGHT Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of BOUGHT is past tense and past participle of buy. How to use bought in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/bought


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [So Who Bought Andy Warhol’s Marilyn for Nearly $200 Million?] ---
On Monday night at Christie’s New York, Larry Gagosian lifted his hand and spent $195 million of someone’s money on a single work of art, Andy Warhol’s Shot Sage Blue Marilyn. Any way you slice it, that is a stupendous display of global capital, a transaction played out in the heart of Manhattan by the world’s most powerful art dealer, on behalf of an anonymous billionaire client—perhaps one of the biggest billionaire clients, if the many clued-in sources are to be believed. The portrait of Marilyn Monroe—consigned by the estate of Thomas and Doris Ammann, with the proceeds going to a foundation that provides health care to underprivileged children—was the priciest work by an American artist ever sold at auction. “We did sell the most expensive painting of the 20th century, and we’re very proud of that,” Christie’s chairman of 20th- and 21st-century art, Alex Rotter, said in a press conference after the sale. “Nearly $200 million. Just let that sink in.” An accomplishment, no doubt, and almost certainly the most expensive artwork that will sell during the two-week run of auctions at Christie’s, Sotheby’s, and Phillips in the coming days, which will easily top a combined $2 billion in total. The proceedings continued with a $103 million sale at Christie’s Tuesday, and on Thursday, at the sale of work from the collection of the Fifth Avenue–by–way–of–Fort Worth billionaire Anne Bass, a trio of Monets are expected to sell for $165 million and a duo of Rothkos are expected to sell for $145 million. And yet the feeling in the room after the Warhol sale was, if you can believe it, deflated. The Marilyn was slotted at the very end, effectively forcing clients who expected to peace out after the big lot to stay for the entirety of the two-hour sale. And then, when the work finally came up, instead of a flurry of bidding it was eerily quiet, with just a handful of bids and the work hammering at $170 million, well below the on-request estimate of $200 million. (The final price includes fees.) Still an enormous figure, to be sure…but perhaps not so big within the full context of the through-the-rabbit-hole contemporary-art market. After all, just five years ago, Ken Griffin spent $240 million on Shot Orange Marilyn, buying it from the estate of Si Newhouse in a private sale orchestrated by stealth mega-dealer Tobias Meyer weeks after the publishing magnate’s death. The five different-color works in the series are often measured against one another equally, meaning that, when accounting for inflation, the value of a Shot Marilyn Warhol seems to have slumped by about 30%, from about $286 million in 2017 (when adjusted for inflation) to $195 million in 2022. “It’s bullshit,” said one collector who was present, speaking after the sale. “We sat there all night, and it sold on a blah bid. Such an anticlimax after making the crowd wait until the last lot.” After the hammer came down, there was a smattering of applause, and everyone shuffled out of their folding chairs in Christie’s salesroom to form the most fabulous scrum in New York City, a mosh pit of Loro Piana–scarf–wearing collectors, long-standing doyennes of the art scene, and the dealers who bid on behalf of them, all cramming into the stairwell at Rockefeller Center. Once outside, they took a beat to assemble their dinner crews. The Mugrabi family, the world’s biggest Warhol collectors, were on one end, with Tico Mugrabi yammering into his cell phone next to his wife, Colby Mugrabi, and his brother David Mugrabi, all trying to find the car. The Nahmad family, the Monegasque art titans once said to have 300 Picasso works worth a clean billion dollars, stood on another end of the courtyard, also scrambling to figure out their dinner plans. And the two sons of the Greek shipping billionaire Philip Niarchos—Stavros Niarchos and Theo Niarchos, the former playboys turned domestic homebodies—stood outside Christie’s, looking a bit bored, or perhaps even concerned. Why would two Adonis-looking, richer-than-God heirs to a big boat fortune look so gloomy? Well, their dad bought Shot Red Marilyn at Christie’s in 1994 for $3.6 million, and for decades the prices of other works in the series have risen steadily. Newhouse bought his for $17.3 million four years later. Steve Cohen bought his from Stefan Edlis for $80 million in 2007. And then a decade later, Griffin bought his for $240 million. What’s more, it’s been speculated that when Griffin bought his privately, there were others out there willing to spend even more than he paid. Brett Gorvy, the former Christie’s rainmaker who’s now a partner at the gallery LGDR, told me last month that “there were three or four people who came forward who were very disappointed” after the Shot Orange Marilyn was sold privately instead of at auction. Oh, what could have been: In the run-up to the Newhouse sale, a popular art world parlor game was to guess how much Warhol’s masterpieces could gross. Of the museum-level collection, a Warhol Marilyn was always the one to go for the highest price. “There was talk at that stage that Shot Orange Marilyn would have certainly gone higher than $300 million,” Gorvy told me. And then the market trend line for Shot Marilyns’ value took a dip on the y-axis for the first time in history on Monday. Those buyers willing to drop a third of a bill did not show up at Christie’s this week. And why not? Well, it could be the fact that there’s war in Europe, which Christie’s CEO Guillaume Cerutti alluded to at the still-chipper post-sale press conference, saying, “We know that we live in challenging times.” Markets had their worst day in years Monday, as the Dow fell more than 600 points. Hopes that a chest-thumping crypto bro would be brazen enough to compete with seasoned collectors were dashed when markets opened and Bitcoin dropped to below $30,000 for the first time since July 2021. Or it could be because the prospective bidders already blew their art-buying scratch on other toys. Last week, the sovereign wealth fund of Qatar, run by Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, pledged $375 million to back Elon Musk’s bid to buy Twitter for $44 billion, while the Qatari emir’s sworn enemy, Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal—known as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s Warren Buffett—agreed to hold on to his $1.9 billion in Twitter stock as the social media platform transitions into the Musk era. It’s unclear if either were among the phone bidders Monday, but regardless, they were not willing to go the distance to buy the work. (Musk, whose financial might is, as noted, a little preoccupied at the moment, is also not much of a collector.) And so those who managed to snag a coveted seat in the smaller-than-usual salesroom were denied the fireworks that accompanied the Salvator Mundi, the purported Leonardo that in 2017 sold for $400 million, or $450.3 million with the buyer’s premium tacked on. And on that lot, there were 18 minutes of frenzied, gasp-inducing bidding, as two princes from the Middle East on the phone with two Christie’s specialists battled it out against each other—reportedly because they both thought they were bidding against their sworn enemies in Qatar. Saudi Prince Bader bin Abdullah was on the phone with Rotter when he placed the winning bid on behalf of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, beating out the rep for Mohammed Bin Zayed, crown prince of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. The current whereabouts of the work are unknown. To be fair, there was some spirit bidding on the lots that preceded the Warhol. The sale opened with a painting by the appropriation artist Mike Bidlo. Estimated to sell for at most $80,000, it instead inspired a wave of bidding across the room and hammered to Christie’s international director Max Carter for an astounding $1 million. The collector Peter Brant bid from the salesroom to buy Francesco Clemente’s The Fourteen Stations, No. XI for a hammer price of $1.5 million, and later bought a Giacometti plaster for $1.7 million with fees. The room was lively enough for auctioneer Jussi Pylkkänen to playfully urge mega-dealers on the aisle to bid up works by artists in the stables, and he thanked Iwan Wirth for taking the action on Mary Heilmann and Robert Ryman lots before Wirth finally secured a sculpture by Martin Kippenberger. The other Kippenberger in the sale, a massive untitled painting, also scored bids by Wirth before landing with the gallerist Per Skarstedt. But the biggest buyer in the room was Gagosian, who, during the run of sale, secured two Cy Twomblys for a total of $38 million with fees, and also snapped up a Brice Marden painting and a Franz West sculpture. And then came the Warhol Marilyn. “And so, ladies and gentlemen,” Pylkkänen said from the rostrum. “We come to the American dream: Warhol’s sublime depiction of Marilyn Monroe, a painting which was with Si Newhouse before it was purchased by Thomas and Doris Ammann through the Gagosian gallery in 1986. Where do we start? Who’d like to open the bidding here?” And we were off. For a breathless 60 seconds, Pylkkänen took bids from clients on the phone with Christie’s imp-mod chair Adrien Meyer and the Viking-beard-rocking Rotter—“one thirty, I have one forty, one forty-five, one hundred and fifty meeeeellion”—until the number stalled. “We’re at $160 million; 160 is the bid, and we’re pausing with Adrien,” Pylkkänen said. “One seventy!” Gagosian bellowed from the crowd. “You heard it, the gentlemen in the third row,” Pylkkänen said. But then the auctioneer struggled to get a bid from his colleagues for a few minutes, until it became clear that no bid would top Gagosian’s. “Last chance, fair warning, last chance, here it is, the Warhol is selling here,” Pylkkänen said, looking down at the impending winner. Gagosian gave a bit of a shrug, and the hammer came down. So who bought the thing? We can rule out that it was for Gagosian’s personal collection, even if the man does have a few choice Warhols hanging at the Upper East Side mansion, including Triple Elvis, which he’s owned for more than a decade and watched as a similar version sold at Christie’s in 2014 for more than $81 million. On Monday throughout the sale, Gagosian had bid with a normal white paddle, but after the hammer came down on the most expensive American artwork ever sold at auction, he raised a large red paddle with the number 2165, indicating that this was for someone different from whomever he was buying the Twomblys and the Marden and the West for. And indeed, sources close to Gagosian told me on background that they were 99.9 percent sure it was for a client and not for him or the gallery. For what it’s worth, sources say the buyer was not another of Gagosian’s clients, Ken Griffin, who did just spend $240 million on another Warhol Marilyn in the same series a few years ago. As I walked out of the salesroom, I ran into Ryan Murphy, the television savant who this year unveiled his documentary series based on The Andy Warhol Diaries. Sadly he hadn’t bid on the work himself, but he offered a guess as to who won it. “I think it could be Bernard Arnault,” Murphy said. While Mr. Arnault—the owner of LVMH and a billionaire 144 times over—did not appear to be in the room, his son Alexandre Arnault was there, sitting on the aisle with the Mugrabis, a sweater from one of Hedi Slimane’s lines for Celine (an LVMH brand, natch) folded neatly over his chair. But perhaps it’s a pipe dream to think that Mr. Arnault would buy such a high-profile work at an auction house owned by LVMH’s bête noire, the Kering owner François Pinault. Plus, as another source close to Gagosian said, the dealer has plenty of clients who very well could have authorized him to bid on their behalf. When Oprah Winfrey sold her Gustav Klimt, Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II, to a Chinese collector for $150 million, she did so because the deal was brokered by Gagosian. Perhaps she had entrusted Gagosian to once again play her proxy in order to win another portrait of a woman, albeit it one from a different era? Another potential buyer was David Geffen, who spent decades building up one of the world’s greatest collections before starting to sell it off in the 2000s. In 2020, however, Geffen sold the former Jack Warner estate in L.A.’s Benedict Canyon to Jeff Bezos for $165 million and then promptly bought a David Hockney for $30 million, so he’s not out of the game entirely. And he’s a longtime client of Gagosian’s, so he seemed like a solid bet to be the buyer, especially since his net worth of $10 billion could certainly absorb it. But alas, on Wednesday a representative in Geffen’s office stated that he was not the buyer of Shot Sage Blue Marilyn. Speaking of the former Amazon CEO who bought Geffen’s house: On Tuesday, multiple sources with a deep knowledge of Gagosian’s clients indicated that the buyer could have been Bezos, the world’s second-richest man, whose collecting habits have become more serious since the fall of 2019, when he bought Ed Ruscha’s Hurting the Word Radio #2 for $52.5 million at Christie’s and Kerry James Marshall’s Vignette 19 for $18.5 million at Sotheby’s. While it’s not confirmed that Bezos is a major client of Gagosian’s, he has been spotted at dinners for the gallery, most notably the bash Larry throws at Mr. Chow in Beverly Hills after the Oscar-week marquee opening, and at parties at Larry’s L.A. pad in Holmby Hills. But on Wednesday, a personal representative for Bezos said he was not the buyer of Shot Sage Blue Marilyn. Through a representative, Gagosian himself declined to comment. The art dealer who won the world’s most expensive Warhol was last seen Monday night leaving the salesroom, beelining through the crowd of dealers and collectors assembled outside, and heading off to dinner. Your crib sheet for comings and goings in the art world this week and beyond… …The 21st Century sale at Christie’s is always good for some fireworks—it is front-loaded with work by artists that even the most deep-pocketed buyers can’t score on the primary market due to waiting lists that favor institutions or collectors with private museums. First out the gate this week was a painting by Anna Weyant, which sparked a bidding war between two Hong Kong–based specialists before hammering at $1.2 million, or $1.5 million with fees, well over the $300,000 high estimate. Collectors in Asia also chased after paintings by Shara Hughes, which sold for $2.9 million, and the $5.3 million work by Matthew Wong, the artist who died by suicide in 2019 and is profiled in this week’s issue of The New Yorker. But elsewhere in the sale, results were mixed. Two works by Jean-Michel Basquiat, estimated to sell for a total of $36 million, were pulled by the consignor just moments before the sale, and the sale’s total of $103 million was about half of what the equivalent sale in November pulled in. …Frieze, America’s favorite British art fair, will pack in a bunch of new programming when it once again touches down next week at The Shed in cursed Hudson Yards. Celebrating its 10th anniversary in the city, Frieze has commissioned the great artist Tom Burr to restage his epic 1997 installation performance Eight Renovations: A Constellation of Sites Across Manhattan. Burr will choose eight locations to plaster over with posters containing a text he wrote for the work, and a ninth site, this one new, will spring up at The Shed. Frieze has also partnered with Deutsche Bank, a longtime sponsor, to offer the rare chance to view the bank’s storied collection, housed in Columbus Circle. And at the fair, highlights include Carol Bove at David Zwirner, Charles Gaines at Hauser & Wirth, Liam Gillick at Casey Kaplan, and a solo booth by Albert Oehlen at Gagosian that “shines a light on the commercial nature of life in general and art fairs in particular.” See you there! …Four hours before the opening of Takashi Murakami’s show at the Gagosian flagship outpost at 980 Madison Avenue on Wednesday, the line snaked down past 77th Street. The crowds only got longer as the opening approached. The crowds only got longer as the opening approached, and by 6:30 p.m. there was a heady mix of sneakerhead hypebeasts, regular gallery-goers, Murakami superfans, NFT speculators, and firefighters making sure everyone was staying relatively orderly. …Don and Mera Rubell have finally set an opening date for the second Rubell Museum, this one in Washington, D.C. On October 29, the institution will open its doors at 65 I Street, in the center of a neighborhood dotted with cultural spaces and a quick walk from Nationals Park and the bustling Wharf. At 32,000 square feet, it will be smaller than the 100,000-square-foot Rubell Museum in Miami, but it will still draw its programming from the spectacular 7,000-work-strong collection that the family has built over the course of nearly 60 years. …The David Kordansky Gallery’s sprawling bash Friday night at the Top of the Standard, better known as the Boom Boom Room, drew in a healthy number of art world luminaries from both coasts who were celebrating the gallery’s first space in New York. A number flew in from L.A. specifically for the bash, including Jonas Wood, Calvin Marcus, Lucy Bull, Hilary Pecis, Jennifer Guidi, and Lauren Halsey, who staged the inaugural show at the Chelsea space that drew crazy lines down the block even in the pouring rain. New York artists present included Rashid Johnson and Chase Hall, a super in-demand artist who just started working at the gallery. Plus, Ms. Lauryn Hill performed as scheduled, albeit a bit late. One attendee said that taking over the 13-year-old Boom Boom Room, with its over-the-top golden bar and its glittering view of downtown and the Hudson, was “an L.A. person’s idea of a New York party.” And I mean, yeah, but who’s to complain? …Carpenters Workshop—the functional-art-and-design gallery with spaces in London, New York, and Paris—will be opening an outpost in L.A.’s West Hollywood later this year. …Dimes Square update: Contemporary art collector turned restaurateur Jon Neidich has taken over the long abandoned space on the corner of Ludlow and Canal to open a deliciously named Frenchified bar called Le Dive. It’s basically as if Neidich made a self-aware facsimile of Café de Flore, stocked it with natural wine instead of musty Bordeauxs, and plopped it down next to Clandestino. “If people are saying that they don’t like how it’s a copy of another thing, then, um, they don’t really get what we’re doing here,” Neidich said at a family-and-friends shindig Saturday. It’s now open to the public. An extremely pleasant way to spend a Sunday afternoon in May: Take the train from Grand Central Terminal to Greenwich, Connecticut. Get out and step into a black car that takes you down the mansion-dotted stretch of green North Street, strewn with newly in-bloom cherry blossoms that blow specks of pink across the windshield. Then, after passing Greenwich Country Club, Burning Tree Country Club, and the Stanwich Club, you reach the Greenwich Polo Club, where for the last decade, the Brant Foundation Art Study Center has held an annual spring lunch to mark the exhibition of work by a single artist that Peter Brant collects in bulk. For the art world VIPs who get the nod from Brant to come by every May and November on the Sunday before the marquee auctions back in Manhattan, it’s a marvelous tradition, driving up that winding road to see the massive artworks that dot the property: Jeff Koons’s Puppy, Richard Serra’s Ali-Frazier, Urs Fischer’s Big Clay among them. The day arrived once again last Sunday, Mother’s Day, and by noon servers were handing out glasses of wine and passing around hors d’oeuvres as visitors made their way into the private museum. Milling around were artists such as Maurizio Cattelan, Dan Colen, Nate Lowman, and Hanna Lidén. The show that opened Sunday was a bravura display of works by Spencer Sweeney, who for decades has been pushing forward a dual practice of both making masterful neo-psychedelic paintings and keeping nightlife alive in New York City, first as a DJ and part owner of Santos Party House, and then as the proprietor of Headz, an itinerant drawing-studio pop-up that he founded alongside Fischer and dealer Brendan Dugan and staged first at his studio in Chinatown. He brought a bit of Headz energy to Greenwich, getting a rollicking jazz combo to set up shop in the middle of the gallery and wail away all afternoon. Surrounding the band were Sweeney’s paintings of flyers for bands and DJs he used to book at Santos during its legendary run on Lafayette and Walker. Just like that, a bygone part of Manhattan was able to make the long Sunday’s journey to Greenwich. And that’s a wrap on this week’s True Colors! Like what you’re seeing? Hate what you’re reading? Have a tip? Drop me a line at nate_freeman@condenast.com. More Great Stories From Vanity Fair The Met Gala’s “Gilded Glamour” Theme Winners: Who Did It Best? John Galliano Gowns, Royal Ascot, and Kelp Farms: Meet the Fourth Generation of Gettys Prince Harry, the Revolutionary Royal Spare Cardi B Jokes That Fame Has Turned Her “Into a Prisoner” How Camilla Became a Queen (Consort) for the Modern Era Inside the Art and Fashion and Billionaire Bonanza at the Venice Biennale Johnny Depp Casts Himself as the Victim of Domestic Violence All the Looks From the Met Gala Red Carpet 14 Pieces Meghan Markle Wore During the 2022 Invictus Games From the Archive: The Princess and the Photographer Sign up for “The Buyline” to receive a curated list of fashion, books, and beauty buys in one weekly newsletter.


--- [Why Larry Gagosian Bought Andy Warhol's Marilyn Monroe ... - Forbes] ---
At 77, the mega-art dealer known as Go-Go shows no signs of stopping. When the gavel came down Monday evening at Christie’s for Andy Warhol’s 1964 portrait of Marilyn Monroe, the $195 million price broke multiple auction records, including a new high for the Pop master himself. Like Warhol and Monroe, the buyer, art dealer Larry Gagosian, is also a familiar face. “Shot Sage Blue Marilyn” is the now most expensive 20th century artwork ever to sell at auction, and also broke records for an American artist and is the second most expensive piece of art ever sold at auction, according to Christie’s. The 77-year-old Gagosian made the winning $195 million bid (including fees) in the New York salesroom himself, but it’s unclear if he purchased the work personally or for one of his wealthy clients, including billionaire mega collectors such as David Geffen, Leon Black, Steve Cohen and Leonard Lauder. Gagosian’s representatives declined to comment to Forbes other than confirming the dealer did purchase the Marilyn portrait. An art world titan for decades, Gagosian has 19 eponymous galleries from New York to Hong Kong, and is widely believed to surpass nine figures in annual sales. (In 2019, when GQ asked Gagosian if he was the first “billion-dollar dealer,” he replied, “I have no idea ... but that sounds like too much to me.”) As he nears his ninth decade, the dealer famously known as Go-Go shows no signs of stopping. Gagosian’s entry in the art market was a long way off from a $195 million painting. He began in the 1970s by selling poster prints of ocean views out of a parking lot in Los Angeles for $20 apiece, before influential New York art dealer Leo Castelli took him under his wing. Castelli was known as the “Prince of Pop Art” and represented many artists who defined the era, including Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein, Frank Stella—and Warhol. By 1980, Gagosian opened his first gallery in Los Angeles, where he sold works by up-and-coming artists such as Jean-Michael Basquiat. Gagosian would go on to represent some of the biggest artists in the world, including Warhol and Cy Twombly, Willem de Kooning, Damien Hirst and Jeff Koons, who left Gagosian’s elite roster last year. He soon made a name for himself with exhibitions that rivaled those of major museums, and many in the art world credit (and blame) him for helping send prices into the stratosphere. His larger-than-life influence has also expanded into pop culture. Noted Basquiat fan Jay-Z even name-dropped the dealer in a 2010 song with Kanye West— “Call Larry Gagosian, you belong in museums.” And in a full circle worthy of Jasper Johns, Gagosian once sold the very Marilyn portrait he bought this week. In 1986, the late Swiss collector Thomas Ammann purchased “Shot Sage Blue Marilyn” from Gagosian. Monday’s auction was a charity sale of Thomas and his sister Doris Ammann’s personal art collection. The auction proceeds benefited the Ammanns’ eponymous foundation that supports children’s charities. (Christie’s said that because the foundation is based in Switzerland, an American buyer would not be able to claim the purchase of the Marilyn as a charity tax write-off). It remains to be seen if the record-breaking purchase signals a new era for Gagosian, who has always kept his roster of artists fresh to appeal to younger buyers, who are investing in art at increasing rates. Last week, Gagosian announced it had signed Anna Weyant, a 27-year-old painter who is the youngest artist to join his art empire. (The two are also rumored to be dating.) In March, the gallery also announced it would begin accepting cryptocurrency payments in bitcoin, despite Gagosian’s initial hesitation. Then again, staying agile is a key to longevity. When asked about his future plans by WSJ a few years ago, he laughed and declared: “Gagosian is going to go on forever!”


--- [Warhol's Portrait of Marilyn Monroe Sells for $195 M. at Auction] ---
Andy Warhol‘s 1964 silkscreen portrait of Marilyn Monroe, arguably one of the most recognizable images born of the last century, sold for a record-setting $195 million (including fees) at Christie’s New York on Monday evening. The result makes it the most expensive work by a 20th-century artist ever to be sold at auction. It sold to art dealer Larry Gagosian, who was bidding in the room. The painting, Shot Sage Blue Marilyn (1964), depicts a press photo from Monroe’s 1953 noir film Niagara. The image is one Warhol used repeatedly in his work until his death in 1987. It derives from his “Shot Marilyn” portrait series, which Warhol produced after an incident at his downtown studio when he prompted a collaborator, Dorothy Podber, to shoot into a stack of canvases. The result for this 1964 work almost doubled the artists’s previous auction record of $105.4 million, set when his 1963 canvas Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster) sold at Sotheby’s in 2013. The present lot had been held in a private collection for five decades. With the sale, Christie’s also rode a double-pronged pop culture wave of renewed interest in both Warhol and Monroe. This year, Netflix released a six-part documentary series The Andy Warhol Diaries looking at the artist’s personal life, as well as a documentary film, The Mystery of Marilyn Monroe: The Unheard Tapes. And at the Met Gala just last week, Kim Kardashian appeared in Monroe’s 1962 custom-made nude gown, which the star infamously wore when she sang a breathy “Happy Birthday” to John F. Kennedy, mere months before her death. Kardashian’s decision to wear the actual dress on the red carpet caused a stir among fashion archivists. Four bidders—one on the phone with Christie’s co-chairman of Impressionist and Modern, Adrien Meyer, two others on the phone with New York specialists, and a bidder in the room—competed for the work, which was the last lot of the night. Offered without a financial guarantee, the painting hammered at a bid of $170 million, going to Gagosian, the room bidder, for a final price of $195 million. The hammer price was $30 million below the $200 million estimate upon request that Christie’s had given it ahead of the auction. The work was sold from the estate of Swiss art dealers Thomas and Doris Ammann, siblings who cofounded Thomas Ammann Fine Art in 1977, which long boasted a roster of high-profile collectors of modern and contemporary art. Doris, who survived her brother, ran the enterprise until her death at age 76 in March 2021. Not only did Shot Sage Blue Marilyn bring a new Warhol record, it has also become one of the most expensive works of art ever sold at auction, surpassing Pablo Picasso’s Les Femmes d’Alger (“Version O”). That painting sold at Christie’s for $179 million in 2015 to Qatari royal Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani. (The most expensive work ever to sell at auction was Salvator Mundi, attributed to Leonardo da Vinci, for $450 million.) The new benchmark for Warhol falls in lockstep with the values for blue-chip brand name artists, New York art appraiser David Shapiro told ARTnews. Works from the famed “Shot Marilyn” series, of which there are only five, Shapiro said, have long been highly sought after and there are only a handful of private collectors with the means to acquire one. Though the milestone price brings Warhol to rival Picasso as the most valuable artists of the modern age, Shapiro said, “Within the greater market for trophy art, the figure of $200 million is very much in keeping with prices realized in the private dealer market for quite a few years.”


--- [Warhol's 'Marilyn' Sells for Record-Shattering $195 Million] ---
Warhol’s ‘Marilyn’ Sells for Record-Shattering $195 Million ‘Shot Sage Blue Marilyn’ makes history as the most expensive 20th-century American artwork ever sold at auction. One of Andy Warhol's iconic Marilyn Monroe portraits has become the most expensive 20th-century artwork ever to sell at auction. The 40-square-inch Shot Sage Blue Marilyn, one of dozens of images the artist made of Monroe in the 1960s, sold for a record $195 million Monday night at Christie's in New York. Prior to the sale, Christie's had described the painting as "one of the rarest and most transcendent images in existence." It has previously been shown at galleries including the Guggenheim Museum in New York, the Centre Pompidou in Paris and London's Tate Modern. Christie's had initially said it was expecting bids "in the region of" $200 million. After less than four minutes of bidding, the work was reportedly purchased in the salesroom by mega-dealer Larry Gagosian, who declined to say whether he bought the work for himself or a client. The portrait was offered along with 35 other lots from the estate of Swiss sibling dealers Thomas and Doris Ammann. The sale generated $317.8 million total. All proceeds from the Marilyn sale will go to the Thomas and Doris Ammann Foundation Zurich, which helps children with healthcare and educational programs. “The most significant 20th-century painting to come to auction in a generation, Andy Warhol’s Marilyn is the absolute pinnacle of American Pop and the promise of the American Dream encapsulating optimism, fragility, celebrity and iconography all at once. The painting transcends the genre of portraiture in America, superseding 20th century art and culture," said Alex Rotter, Christie’s chairman of 20th and 21st century art. "Standing alongside Botticelli’s Birth of Venus, Da Vinci’s Mona Lisa and Picasso’s Les Demoiselles d’Avignon, Warhol’s Marilyn is categorically one of the greatest paintings of all time.” The auction record for a Warhol work was previously held by Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster), which depicts the mangled aftermath of a road collision and sold for more than $105 million almost a decade ago. Several of the artist's other Marilyn images have also attracted huge sum at auction in recent years, including 1962's White Marilyn that sold for $41 million at Christie's in 2014. Warhol created the silkscreen portrait after Monroe’s death in 1962. Based on a promotional still for the 1953 film Niagara, the likeness is now “more famous than the photograph,” according to Frei. Shot Sage Blue Marilyn is one of five similar portraits of Monroe created by the artist in 1964. Each features a different background color: red, orange, light blue, sage blue and turquoise. Four of the five (excluding the turquoise) are known collectively as The Shot Marilyns in honor of an infamous incident that took place at the Factory, Warhol’s New York City studio, in the fall of 1964, when performance artist Dorothy Podber shot the four stacked canvases with a revolver. A handful of paintings, including works by Abstract Expressionists Willem de Kooning and Jackson Pollock, have sold for excess of $200 million in private sales. But only one painting has passed that mark at auction: Leonardo da Vinci’s Salvator Mundi, which sold for over $450 million at Christie's in 2017 and has been the subject of much debate in the art world. The previous auction record for a 20th-century painting was held by Pablo Picasso’s Les Femmes d'Alger (Version O), which sold for $179.4 million at Christie's in 2015.


--- [BOUGHT Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
Adjective a bought dress that looked like a high-end designer item Recent Examples on the Web Examples are automatically compiled from online sources to show current usage.Read More Opinions expressed in the examples do not represent those of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback. Adjective The chain said that refunds would be available to patrons who had pre-bought tickets.—Patrick Frater, Variety, 14 July 2022 Cineplex has also begun offering refunds to all customers that pre-bought tickets for upcoming film screenings.—Etan Vlessing, The Hollywood Reporter, 3 Jan. 2022
