=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lemonade (album) - Wikipedia]
Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé. It was surprise-released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records, as a visual album together with a film of the same name. Beyoncé conceived Lemonade as a concept album that explores the historical Black female experience in the United States, allegorized as a personal journey through ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lemonade_(album)

[Lemonade - La Casa de la Arquitectura]
The album marked the singer's third number-one album on the chart and was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on September 9, 2016, for shipments of 300,000 copies. All of the album's tracks also debuted within the top hundred of the UK Singles Chart.
URL: https://lacasadelaarquitectura.es/en/resource/lemonade/53d4449f-d96b-4b88-bf6d-6bbbaae8065d

[Beyoncé (album)]
Lemonade (2016). Singles from Beyoncé. "XO" Released: December 16, 2013; "Drunk ... Phonographic Industry to change Global Release Day from Tuesday to Friday.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beyonc%C3%A9_(album)

[Beyoncé | JH Wiki Collection Wiki | Fandom]
In late 2011, she took the stage at New York's Roseland Ballroom for four nights of special performances:[139] the 4 Intimate Nights with Beyoncé concerts saw the performance of her 4 album to a standing room only.[139] On August 1, 2011, the album ...
URL: https://jhmovie.fandom.com/wiki/Beyonc%C3%A9

[Lemonade - Album by Beyoncé - YouTube Music]
Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé. It was surprise-released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records, as a visual album together with a film of the same name. Beyoncé conceived Lemonade as a concept album that explores the historical Black female experience in the United States, allegorized as a personal journey through ...
URL: https://music.youtube.com/browse/MPREb_Wj7vh2XYbSH


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lemonade (album) - Wikipedia] ---
Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer and songwriter Beyoncé. It was surprise-released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records, as a visual album together with a film of the same name. Beyoncé conceived Lemonade as a concept album that explores the historical Black female experience in the United States, allegorized as a personal journey through marital betrayal and healing, and structured as a song cycle based on the Kübler-Ross model.
Categorized by critics as an eclectic, genre-blending album with avant-garde, art pop and R&B elements, Lemonade explores a variety of genres including  rock, country, soul, blues, hip-hop, jazz, reggae, pop, gospel, and funk. It features guest vocals from Jack White, the Weeknd, James Blake and Kendrick Lamar. Upon release, it topped the charts and received platinum certifications in several countries across Europe, the Americas, and Asia–Pacific, and became the world's best-selling album of the year. The album was supported by five singles and promoted through a series of televized performances, as well as the Formation World Tour—the first all-stadium tour by a female artist in history.
Lemonade was hailed as an instant classic upon release and has since been named one of the greatest albums of all time. Critics commended the experimental post-genre production and nuanced vocal performance, with particular praise for the political subject matter reflecting Beyoncé's personal life. It was music critics' top album of 2016 according to the BBC, was named the greatest album of the 2010s decade by publications such as the Associated Press, and topped Rolling Stone's Greatest Albums of the 21st Century list. One of the most Grammy-nominated albums in history, Lemonade won Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Video at the 59th Grammy Awards. It also won a Peabody Award in Entertainment at the 76th Annual Peabody Awards and received four nominations at the 68th Primetime Emmy Awards.
Lemonade is considered a cultural phenomenon, sparking widespread discourse on its personal revelations and socio-political commentary. It had a significant impact on the entertainment industry, inspiring other musicians and visual artists, and ignited trends across music, fashion and pop culture. It has also been the subject of extensive analysis in academic journals, college courses, books, and museum exhibitions.




--- [Lemonade - La Casa de la Arquitectura] ---
Loading... 0 0 Propiedades Tipo específico: Tipo: http://schema.org/name Cultura Culture http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#type http://dbpedia.org/ontology/DataType http://schema.org/name Cosa Thing http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#type http://dbpedia.org/ontology/DataType Fecha de fin: 23/04/2016 Relevancia: 139 Same As: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lemonade_(album) Descripción: Álbum de Beyoncé Fecha de inicio: 23/04/2016 Descripción larga: Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer Beyoncé. It was released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records, accompanied by a 65-minute film of the same title. It is Beyoncé's second visual album, following her self-titled fifth studio album (2013), and a concept album with a song cycle that relates Beyoncé's emotional journey after her husband's infidelity in a generational and racial context. Primarily an R&B and art pop album, Lemonade encompasses a variety of genres, including reggae, blues, rock, hip hop, soul, funk, Americana, country, gospel, electronic, and trap. It features guest vocals from James Blake, Kendrick Lamar, the Weeknd, and Jack White, and contains samples and interpolations of a number of hip hop and rock songs.Lemonade is considered to be one of the greatest albums of all time, and is the most acclaimed studio album of Beyoncé's career. The album was music critics' top album of 2016, and was named the greatest album of the 2010s by publications such as the Associated Press. In 2020, the album was placed at number 32 on Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time list. The album was nominated for nine Grammy Awards at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards (2017), including Album of the Year, Record of the Year and Song of the Year. It won Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Video. The album's visuals received 11 nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards, of which it won eight including Breakthrough Long Form Video and Video of the Year. The film also received four nominations at the 68th Primetime Emmy Awards. The album won a Peabody Award in Entertainment.<br />Lemonade topped the charts in various countries worldwide, including the US Billboard 200, where it earned 653,000 with additional album-equivalent units, including 485,000 copies in its first week of sales. It has since been certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). By the end of 2016, Lemonade had sold over 1.5 million copies in the United States, making it the third-best-selling album of the year in the US, and it was the best-selling album of 2016, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), with 2.5 million copies sold worldwide. The album was supported by five singles: "Formation", which was a top-ten hit on the US Billboard Hot 100, "Sorry", "Hold Up", "Freedom", and "All Night". In April 2016, Beyoncé embarked on The Formation World Tour to promote the album, an all-stadium tour visiting North America and Europe. Identificador: Q23905116 Nombre: Lemonade Descripción larga de wikipedia : Lemonade is the sixth studio album by American singer Beyoncé. It was released on April 23, 2016, by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records, accompanied by a 65-minute film of the same title. It is Beyoncé's second visual album, following her self-titled fifth studio album (2013), and a concept album with a song cycle that relates Beyoncé's emotional journey after her husband's infidelity in a generational and racial context. Primarily an R&B and art pop album, Lemonade encompasses a variety of genres, including reggae, blues, rock, hip hop, soul, funk, Americana, country, gospel, electronic, and trap. It features guest vocals from James Blake, Kendrick Lamar, the Weeknd, and Jack White, and contains samples and interpolations of a number of hip hop and rock songs.Lemonade is considered to be one of the greatest albums of all time, and is the most acclaimed studio album of Beyoncé's career. The album was music critics' top album of 2016, and was named the greatest album of the 2010s by publications such as the Associated Press. In 2020, the album was placed at number 32 on Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time list. The album was nominated for nine Grammy Awards at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards (2017), including Album of the Year, Record of the Year and Song of the Year. It won Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Video. The album's visuals received 11 nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards, of which it won eight including Breakthrough Long Form Video and Video of the Year. The film also received four nominations at the 68th Primetime Emmy Awards. The album won a Peabody Award in Entertainment.<br />Lemonade topped the charts in various countries worldwide, including the US Billboard 200, where it earned 653,000 with additional album-equivalent units, including 485,000 copies in its first week of sales. It has since been certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). By the end of 2016, Lemonade had sold over 1.5 million copies in the United States, making it the third-best-selling album of the year in the US, and it was the best-selling album of 2016, according to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), with 2.5 million copies sold worldwide. The album was supported by five singles: "Formation", which was a top-ten hit on the US Billboard Hot 100, "Sorry", "Hold Up", "Freedom", and "All Night". In April 2016, Beyoncé embarked on The Formation World Tour to promote the album, an all-stadium tour visiting North America and Europe.<br /><br /><br />== Background ==<br />On February 6, 2016, Beyoncé released "Formation" for free on the music streaming service Tidal and an accompanying unlisted music video on her official YouTube account. The unlisted format of the video meant it was inaccessible by search, and viewers could only watch it through others that had shared the video link, or through articles and webpages that embedded the video. Beyoncé later released an identical public version of the unlisted video on YouTube on December 9, 2016. Both videos still exist. The day after the song and video's release, Beyoncé performed "Formation" during her performance at the Super Bowl 50 halftime show. Immediately after the performance, a commercial aired announcing The Formation World Tour, which kicked off in Miami, Florida on April 27, 2016, with the first pre-sales going on sale just two days after the announcement on February 9, 2016. Beyoncé was both praised and criticized over her "Formation" and the Black Panther-influenced costume for her Super Bowl halftime performance. As a result of this, the hashtags "#BoycottBeyonce" and "#IStandWithBeyonce" began trending on social media platforms such as Twitter and Beyoncé faced boycotts from police unions. A group of protesters planned to stage an "anti-Beyoncé" rally outside of the NFL's headquarters in New York City, New York on the day general sale of tickets went for sale, but no protesters showed up; instead, dozens of Beyoncé supporters held a rally for her.When asked what she wanted to accomplish with the next phase of her career in an interview with Elle, published on April 4, 2016, Beyoncé said: "I hope I can create art that helps people heal. Art that makes people feel proud of their struggle. Everyone experiences pain, but sometimes you need to be uncomfortable to transform."<br /><br /><br />== Recording and production ==<br />Lemonade was recorded between June 2014 and July 2015 across 11 studios in the United States. Beyoncé had the idea to write each song corresponding to the eleven chapters that can be seen in the Lemonade film, and posted moodboards around the studio representing each chapter to provide direction to her collaborators. Beyoncé and her collaborators also played music in the studio to inspire each other. The album was written in stages, with Beyoncé retreating to her home to work on the recordings with recording and mixing engineer Stuart White, as well as to take care of her daughter. The process began at the Record Plant in Los Angeles, which the team used for a month. They then took a break, and later went to Paris for 45 days. The team stayed in a hotel and set up two studios in two different hotel rooms, one for Beyoncé and one for Jay-Z. Jay-Z recounted how he and Beyoncé recorded music both separately and together, describing it as "using our art almost like a therapy session" after his infidelity. The music that Beyoncé recorded separately was what became Lemonade and was released first.Lemonade was produced through Beyoncé's synthesis of the work of many collaborators, including both popular and lesser known artists. MNEK relayed how "Hold Up" was written, saying "The way Beyoncé works, the song is a jigsaw piece and then she will piece various elements. It could be a bit that she's written, a bit that someone else has written and she'll make that the bridge; a bit I've written she'll make the middle eight". MNEK also explains that Beyoncé was "overlooking everything, saying "I like this, I like that, this is how this should sound, this is how that should sound."" "Don't Hurt Yourself" collaborator Jack White describes how "she took just sort of a sketch of a lyrical outline and turned into the most bodacious, vicious, incredible song... I'm so amazed at what she did with it." "Hold Up" and "Sorry" co-writer and co-producer MeLo-X explains that "she has a way of creating that I've never seen before as an artist. She produces, alters and arranges tracks in ways I wouldn't think of." When talking about how he scored the Lemonade film as well, MeLo-X explains "She's hands on with everything. She gives direction on everything and is very involved with the whole process. It's inspiring to see an artist on that level be able to just still have an eye for certain things and an ear... We would just sit down and go over with different things and different scenes and sounds and kind of put it together piece by piece."<br /><br /><br />== Themes ==<br /><br />As a multimedia audiovisual artwork, Lemonade relates the emotional journey of Beyoncé after her husband Jay-Z's infidelity in a generational and racial context through its music, lyrics, visuals and poetry. The Lemonade album is a song cycle (referencing the classical compositional genre defined in German Lieder by Robert Schumann, Franz Schubert and Johannes Brahms) that is performed as an elaboration of the Kübler-Ross model, with the tracks (excluding "Formation") corresponding to the eleven chapters of the Lemonade film: "Intuition", "Denial", "Anger", "Apathy", "Emptiness", "Accountability", "Reformation", "Forgiveness", "Resurrection", "Hope", and "Redemption".Melina Matsoukas, the director of the "Formation" music video, said that Beyoncé explained to her the concept behind Lemonade, stating: "She wanted to show the historical impact of slavery on black love, and what it has done to the black family, and black men and women—how we're almost socialized not to be together." Beyoncé wrote on this in a 2018 Vogue article about the "generational curses" in her family, explaining that she comes "from a lineage of broken male-female relationships, abuse of power, and mistrust", including a slave owner who married a slave. Beyoncé continues, writing "Only when I saw that clearly was I able to resolve those conflicts in my own relationship. Connecting to the past and knowing our history makes us both bruised and beautiful."This theme is repeated throughout Lemonade, with Beyoncé's grief, trauma and struggle being connected to that of her family's ancestors. The sixth track "Daddy Lessons" acts as a turning point for the album, with Beyoncé linking Jay-Z cheating on her with her father Mathew Knowles cheating on her mother Tina. Towards the end of Lemonade, Beyoncé reveals the meaning behind the album title, showing Jay-Z's grandmother Hattie White saying "I had my ups and downs, but I always find the inner strength to pull myself up. I was served lemons, but I made lemonade", and describing her own grandmother, Agnez Deréon, as an "alchemist" who "spun gold out of this hard life" with the instructions to overcome these challenges passed down through generations like a lemonade recipe.<br /><br /><br />=== Black feminism ===<br />Miriam Bale for Billboard called Lemonade "a revolutionary work of Black feminism" as "a movie made by a black woman, starring Black women, and for Black women", in which Beyoncé is seen gathering, uniting and leading Black women throughout the film. As well as relating the story of Beyoncé's relationship with her husband, Lemonade also chronicles the relationship between Black women and American society. This includes how the United States betrayed and continually mistreats Black women, with society needing to solve its problems in order to enable reformation and the rehabilitation of Black women. As part of reverting the societal oppression and silencing of Black women, Lemonade centralizes the experiences of Black women in a way that is not often seen in the media, and celebrates their achievements despite the adversity they face."Don't Hurt Yourself" contains a quote from Malcolm X in which he said "The most disrespected person in America is the Black woman. The most unprotected person in America is the Black woman. The most neglected person in America is the Black woman". The Black female public figures that Beyoncé featured in the film all have successful careers despite experiencing misogynoir and racism in the media. The film also contains clips of everyday Black women from working class communities, bringing visibility to Black women who are often ignored and undermined by society. The film envisions a space where there was never oppression of Black women, whereby Beyoncé and other Black women form a self-sufficient community in which they can heal together. Lemonade also defies and dismantles stereotypical representations of Black women as monolithic and angry Black women, instead attributing them complexity, agency, strength and vulnerability.To create Lemonade, Beyoncé drew from the work of a wide variety of Black women who are often overlooked or forgotten. The music draws inspiration from Black female blues musicians such as Shug Avery, Bessie Smith and Sister Rosetta Tharpe, who also used their personal trauma to empower Black women, as well as samples songs originally recorded by Black women, namely Memphis Minnie and Dionne Warwick, but whose most famous recordings are by male or white artists. The visuals drew inspiration from works by Black feminists such as Julie Dash's Daughters Of The Dust, Alice Walker's In Search Of Our Mothers' Gardens, and Toni Morrison's The Bluest Eye. Other influences for Lemonade include literary work by Black women focusing on themes including African-American folklore (such as Zora Neale Hurston's Their Eyes Were Watching God) and Afrofuturism (such as Octavia Butler's Kindred).<br /><br /><br />=== African-American culture ===<br />Beyoncé also uses Lemonade as a form of recognition, commemoration and celebration of the culture and history of Black people in the Deep South and in the United States as a whole. The film contains allusions to slavery, such as the House of Slaves' Door of No Return in Senegal and the dungeons of Elmina Castle in Ghana, where slaves were taken before being shipped to the Americas. In "Love Drought", Beyoncé walks with her dancers into the sea, alluding to the Igbo Landing of 1803, where Igbo slaves took control of their slave ship, and rather than submit to slavery, marched into the sea while singing in Igbo, drowning themselves. Beyoncé appears wearing a tignon, in reference to Louisiana's tignon laws implemented in 1786 that limited African-American women's dress in order to maintain the state's racist social hierarchies. The film also contains references to African religion and spirituality, such as Yoruba ori body paint in "Sorry", allusions to the loa Erzulie Red-Eyes in "Don't Hurt Yourself", and Beyoncé's initiation into the Santería religion and embodiment of the Yoruba orisha Oshun in "Hold Up". Allusions to New Orleans culture include "Queen of Creole cuisine" Leah Chase, the Edna Karr Marching Band, jazz funerals, Mardi Gras Indians and the Superdome.Beyoncé is seen with other Black women on plantations in Lemonade. In the "Formation" video, the walls of the plantation houses are covered with French Renaissance-style portraits of Black subjects; director Melina Matsoukas states that "films about slavery traditionally feature white people in these roles of power and position. I wanted to turn those images on their head." Towards the end of Lemonade, Beyoncé and several Black women are on a plantation, with Chris Kelly for Fact writing "Instead of an antebellum memory, these scenes portray a dream: the fantasy of an all-Black, matriarchal utopia when women dress up, prepare meals, take photographs and perform shows, not for a master but for themselves." Throughout the film, Beyoncé can be seen in Fort Macomb, a Confederate States Army stronghold that was taken over by one of the first all-Black Union Army units – the 1st Louisiana Native Guard – and eventually destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. On the central track "Daddy Lessons", Beyoncé is seen standing in a hideaway in the fort, alluding to the Underground Railroad. However, on the closer "All Night", Beyoncé is seen above ground, walking on top of the ruins of the fort in an antebellum-style dress made in West African material, possibly inspired by artist Yinka Shonibare who is known for reappropriating "European import — the cloth — to remake symbols of European cultural dominance in the spirit of Africa".On "Don't Hurt Yourself", Beyoncé samples Led Zeppelin's "When the Levee Breaks". However, the classic rock song was originally written by black Delta blues artists Kansas Joe McCoy and Memphis Minnie, with the song referring to the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 which displaced hundreds of thousands of African Americans. With the sample, Beyoncé reappropriates the song that was written by Black people about black history. In general, Beyoncé also reappropriates genres that were influenced by African Americans that are now seen as predominantly white genres on Lemonade, such as rock in "Don't Hurt Yourself" and country in "Daddy Lessons".<br /><br /><br />== Music and lyrics ==<br />The album features musicians Jack White, Kendrick Lamar, and bassist Marcus Miller, and sampling from folk music collectors John Lomax, Sr. and his son Alan Lomax on "Freedom". Beyoncé and her team reference the musical memories of all those periods, including a brass band, stomping blues rock, ultraslow avant-R&B, preaching, a prison song (both collected by John and Alan Lomax), and the sound of the 1960s fuzz-tone guitar psychedelia (sampling the Puerto Rican band Kaleidoscope).<br />The Washington Post called the album a "surprisingly furious song cycle about infidelity and revenge". The Chicago Tribune described the album as not just a mere grab for popular music dominance, rather it is a retrospective that allows the listener to explore Beyoncé's personal circumstances, with musical tones from the southern United States, a harkening back towards her formative years spent in Texas. AllMusic wrote that Beyoncé "delights in her Blackness, femininity, and Southern origin with supreme wordplay."According to The A.V. Club, the tracks "encompass and interpolate the entire continuum of R&B, rock, soul, hip hop, pop, and blues", accomplished by a deft precision "blurring eras and references with determined impunity." The Guardian and Entertainment Weekly both noted that the album touches on country, and Entertainment Weekly noticed the use of avant-garde musical elements. Consequence of Sound wrote that the album's genres span "from gospel to rock to R&B to trap"; On the album, Isaac Hayes and Andy Williams are among the sampled artists.PopMatters noticed how the album was nuanced in its theme of anger and betrayal with vast swathes of the album bathed in political context; however, it is still a pop album at its essence with darker and praiseworthy tones. In 2020, Marc Hogan from Pitchfork considered Lemonade among the great art pop albums of the last 20 years to "have filled the void of full-length statements with both artistic seriousness and mass appeal that was formerly largely occupied by [rock] guitar bands".<br /><br /><br />== Title and artwork ==<br />There are two suggested inspirations for the album's title. The song "Freedom" includes at its end an audio recording of Hattie White, grandmother of Beyoncé's husband Jay-Z's, telling a crowd at her ninetieth birthday party in December 2015: "I had my ups and downs, but I always find the inner strength to pull myself up. I was served lemons, but I made lemonade", referencing the proverb "when life gives you lemons, make lemonade" that encourages turning sourness and difficulty to something positive. Beyoncé also draws a connection to her own grandmother, Agnez Deréon, using her lemonade recipe that was passed down through the generations as a metaphor for the mechanisms for healing passed through generations.The cover artwork for Lemonade is from the music video shot for "Don't Hurt Yourself" and features Beyoncé wearing cornrows and a fur coat, leaning against a Chevrolet Suburban and covering her face with her arm.<br /><br /><br />== Release and promotion ==<br /><br />Lemonade was first made available for online streaming via Tidal on April 23, 2016, through Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records, and for digital download the following day. It was released for CD and DVD on May 6, 2016. A limited edition box set titled How to Make Lemonade was made available for pre-order on August 18, 2017, containing a six-hundred-page coffee table book, featuring a set of pictures and behind-the-scenes content showcasing the making of the album, and a double vinyl LP of Lemonade. Standalone vinyl was released on September 15, 2017. Upon its release, Lemonade was only available to stream on Tidal; however the album was eventually released to all other streaming platforms on April 23, 2019, exactly three years after its release. The version of the album that was made available on other streaming services contains the original audio part of Lemonade as well as the original demo of "Sorry" as a bonus.Beyoncé had a goal to perform the entire Lemonade album live. Beyoncé performed "Formation" at the Super Bowl 50 halftime show as part of her guest appearance at the event, with critics lauding the performance and stating that she stole the show from headliners Coldplay. The political symbolism in the performance also inspired many thinkpieces and discussions on their history and significance.<br />Beyoncé performed "Freedom" with Kendrick Lamar as the surprise opening number at the 2016 BET Awards on June 27. The performance began with an audio clip of Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech. The performance was met with acclaim by critics. At the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards on August 28, Beyoncé performed a sixteen-minute medley of "Pray You Catch Me", "Hold Up", "Sorry", "Don't Hurt Yourself", and "Formation", and included interludes of the poetry as heard in the Lemonade film. Critics noted that Beyoncé used political symbolism during "Pray You Catch Me", which included angel-like dancers in historical black hairstyles (such as Bantu knots, braids and dreadlocks) successively falling to the ground as though shot, alluding to police brutality, and a black man in a black hoodie catching, uplifting and pushing Beyoncé forward, alluding to Trayvon Martin, who was killed when wearing a black hoodie.<br /><br />On October 19, Beyoncé performed "6 Inch" and "All Night" at the TIDAL X benefit concert at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York City. On November 2, Beyoncé performed "Daddy Lessons" with the Dixie Chicks at the 50th Annual Country Music Association Awards (2016). The performance (which was the first featuring the Dixie Chicks in a decade after being blacklisted for their criticism of George W Bush in 2003) was widely praised by critics, but was met with criticism and racism by conservative country fans; this sparked conversations about the identity of country music and black people's place in it. Subsequently, a remix of "Daddy Lessons" featuring the Dixie Chicks was released. At the 59th Annual Grammy Awards on February 12, 2017, Beyoncé performed "Love Drought" and "Sandcastles". Themed around motherhood, the five-months pregnant Beyoncé's performance is recognised by commentators to evoke various female deities and Renaissance European Christian art (such as Tintoretto's Last Supper, Simone Martini's Maestà and depictions of the Virgin of Guadalupe) and various non-European allusions such as Fulani facepainting, Ethiopian icons, Byzantine jewelry and Latin American Baroque painting.In order to promote the album, Beyoncé embarked on The Formation World Tour which visited countries in North America and Europe from April to October 2016. The stage featured the Es Devlin-designed 'Monolith', a revolving seven-storey-tall box made with video screen walls that could shoot out fire and fireworks and split open, and which revolved during the show to represent a new chapter in line with the Lemonade film.<br />The Formation World Tour was met with rave reviews from critics, such as Kat Bein for Rolling Stone who described the show as "a prime example of entertainment and a vision of an artist at her apex" and "a visual feast as well as an emotional tour de force, packed with fireworks, confetti, rearranging stage designs and aerial dancers." The Formation World Tour won Tour of the Year at the 2016 American Music Awards, was included in Rolling Stone's 50 Greatest Concerts of the Last 50 Years list in 2017, and was named the best tour of the decade (2010s) by Consequence of Sound in 2019.The Formation World Tour was ranked at number one and number two on Pollstar's 2016 mid-year Top 100 Tours chart both in North America and worldwide respectively, with a total mid-year worldwide gross of $137.3 million from the first twenty-five shows (including $126.3 million from the first North American leg of the tour). In total, the tour grossed $256 million from forty-nine sold-out shows according to Billboard box score, and ranked at number two on Pollstar's 2016 Year-End Tours chart.<br /><br /><br />=== Accompanying film ===<br /><br />Lemonade was accompanied by the release of a sixty-five-minute film of the same title, produced by Good Company and Jonathan Lia, which premiered on HBO on April 23, 2016, logging 787,000 viewers. It is divided into eleven chapters, titled "Intuition", "Denial", "Anger", "Apathy", "Emptiness", "Accountability", "Reformation", "Forgiveness", "Resurrection", "Hope", and "Redemption".<br />The film uses poetry and prose written by British-Somali poet Warsan Shire; the poems adapted were "The Unbearable Weight of Staying", "Dear Moon", "How to Wear Your Mother's Lipstick", "Nail Technician as Palm Reader", and "For Women Who Are Difficult to Love".The film's cast features Ibeyi, Laolu Senbanjo, Amandla Stenberg, Quvenzhané Wallis, Chloe x Halle, Zendaya and Serena Williams. In "Forward", the mothers of Trayvon Martin (Sybrina Fulton), Michael Brown (Lesley McFadden), and Eric Garner (Gwen Carr) are featured holding pictures of their deceased sons. Jay-Z and Beyoncé's daughter Blue Ivy appears in home video footage at one point, as does Jay-Z's grandmother Hattie White, and Beyoncé's mother Tina Knowles, who is shown with her second husband Richard Lawson on their wedding day in 2015. The film also samples work by Malcolm X, specifically an excerpt from his speech "Who Taught You to Hate Yourself", which is featured on the track "Don't Hurt Yourself".The Lemonade film appeared on a number of critics' lists. Pitchfork listed Lemonade at number one on their list of best music videos of 2016.<br />It was also included on Sight & Sound's best films of 2016 list at number twenty-six. David Ehrlich, a film critic for IndieWire, placed Lemonade at number twenty-three on his Best Films of 2016 list. Jen Yamato from The Daily Beast ranked it at number nine on her list of the Top 10 Best Films of 2016. In June 2016, Matthew Fulks sued Beyoncé, Sony Music, Columbia Records and Parkwood Entertainment for allegedly lifting nine visual elements of his short film Palinoia for the trailer for Lemonade. The lawsuit was subsequently dismissed by New York federal judge Jed S. Rakoff, siding with the defendant.<br /><br /><br />=== Singles ===<br />Lemonade consisted of five singles, three of which would become major hits. All twelve songs charted on the US Billboard Hot 100. "Formation" was released as the album's first single exclusively on Tidal on February 6, 2016, along with its accompanying music video. The song was part of the set Beyoncé performed the following day at the Super Bowl 50 halftime show. "Formation" peaked at number ten on the US Billboard Hot 100. The music video for the song was uploaded onto Vevo in December 2016."Sorry" was released as the second single and serviced to rhythmic adult contemporary radio in the United States on May 3, 2016, and its music video was uploaded onto Vevo on June 22, 2016. The single debuted and peaked at number eleven on the US Billboard Hot 100."Hold Up" was the third single and was first released to contemporary hit radio stations in Germany and the United Kingdom on May 12, 2016, and was later serviced to radio in the United States on August 16, 2016. It debuted and peaked at number thirteen on the US Billboard Hot 100. The music video for "Hold Up" was uploaded onto Vevo on September 4, 2016.The fourth and fifth singles released were "Freedom" and "All Night", respectively. Both became moderate hits with the former (released September 2016) peaking at US number thirty-five, and the latter (released December 2016) peaking at US number thirty-eight.<br /><br /><br />== Critical reception ==<br />Lemonade received universal acclaim from music critics upon release, and is widely considered to be Beyoncé's magnum opus. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, the album received a weighted average score of 92, based on 33 reviews, indicating "universal acclaim".In Spin, Greg Tate calls Lemonade "a triumph of marketing and musicality, spectacle and song, vision and collaboration, Borg-like assimilation, and — as of 2013 — the element of surprise". Lauding both the film and album, Tate writes "Visually, literarily, choreographically, cinematically, this full accessing of her Southern bona fides shows up in the HBO project as ritual evidence that Bey's spent her downtime delving into the avant-garde mysticism of black-feminist poetry, novel writing, dance, gallery art, and film... The album, however, is out to sonorously suck you into its gully gravitational orbit the old fashioned way, placing the burden of conjuration on its steamy witches' brew of beats, melodies, and heavy-hearted-to-merry-pranksterish vocal seductions. In her mastery of carnal and esoteric mysteries, Queen Bey raises the spirits, sizzles the flesh, and rallies her troops." AllMusic writer Andy Kellman called Lemonade "culturally seismic" through its "layers of meaning and references, and experienced en masse through its televised premiere", adding that "the cathartic and wounded moments here resonate in a manner matched by few, if any, of Beyoncé's contemporaries."In a five-star review for Rolling Stone, Rob Sheffield calls Lemonade "a welcome reminder that giants still walk among us", describing it as an "album of emotional discord and marital meltdown... from the most respected and creative artist in the pop game". Sheffield writes "Lemonade is her most emotionally extreme music, but also her most sonically adventurous... Yet the most astounding sound is always Bey's voice", which is described as "her wildest, rawest vocals ever". Sheffield also compares Lemonade to Aretha Franklin's Spirit in the Dark and Nina Simone's Silk and Soul in the way that the album "reach[es] out historically, connecting her personal pain to the trauma of American blackness". Ray Rahman for Entertainment Weekly agrees, writing that Lemonade is "a raw and intensely personal plunge into the heart of marital darkness" as well as "a feminist blueprint, a tribute to women, African-Americans, and, especially, African-American women". Rahman further praises the diversity of the album: "[Beyoncé] can do rock, blues, country, avant-garde, whatever. Lemonade stands as Bey's most diverse album to date. Sinister strip-club-in-the-future R&B... sits right next to a slab of Texas twang. Led Zeppelin and Soulja Boy become bedfellows."Alexis Petridis of The Guardian wrote that the album "feels like a success" and that Beyoncé sounded "genuinely imperious". Petridis praises the musical arc of the album, commenting on how the music "slowly works itself up into a righteous frenzy of anger, shifting from the becalmed misery of opener "Pray You Catch Me" via the sparse simmer of "Hold Up"... before finally boiling over on the fantastic "Don't Hurt Yourself": a ferocious, distorted vocal as commanding as anything she's recorded". The Daily Telegraph writer Jonathan Bernstein felt it was her strongest work to date and "proves there's a thin line between love and hate." Nekesa Moody and Mohamad Soliman from The Washington Post called the album a "deeply personal, yet ... a bold social and political statement as well". Writing for The New York Times, Jon Pareles praised Beyoncé's vocals and her courage to talk about subjects that affect so many people, and noted that "the album is not beholden to radio formats or presold by a single". Greg Kot from the Chicago Tribune felt that "artistic advances" seem "slight" in context towards the record's "more personal, raw and relatable" aspects, where it came out as a "clearly conceived" piece of music, meaning it had a "unifying vision" for what may have lent itself to being "a prettily packaged hodgepodge".Reviewing the album in The Independent, Everett True wrote that it "is fiery, insurgent, fiercely proud, sprawling and sharply focused in its dissatisfaction", with Beyoncé "pick[ing] up the mantles of both" Prince and Nina Simone. Writing for Slate, Carl Wilson describes Lemonade as "a spectacle to rival Thriller" and "a beautiful and often disturbing kaleidoscope of poetry, feminism, racial politics, history, mythology, emotional upheaval, family, and romance that can be watched again and again and will be for years to come". Kitty Empire of The Observer writes that "female endurance and pragmatism are celebrated with warmth, anger and wit on this astounding visual album" and that "it's unlikely there will be many more albums this year that will unite high art and low in the same way as Beyoncé's jaw-slackening latest". Jillian Mapes of Pitchfork wrote that "The increasingly signature cadence, patois, and all-around attitude on Lemonade speaks to her status as the hip-hop pop star—but this being Bey, she doesn't stop there... Lemonade proves Beyoncé to also be a new kind of post-genre pop star". In The A.V. Club Annie Zaleski wrote that it was "yet another seismic step forward for Beyoncé as a musician" that "pushes pop music into smarter, deeper places".Shahzaib Hussain, writing for Clash, stated: "Lemonade is Beyoncé at her most benevolent, and her most unadulterated. Treating her blackness not as an affliction but a celebratory beacon, Lemonade is a long overdue, cathartic retribution." Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine wrote that the album "is her most lyrically and thematically coherent effort to date." Maura Johnston of Time wrote that its tracks were "fresh yet instantly familiar" with an "over-the-top but intimate" sound. Jamie Milton of DIY wrote that "there's so much more than an enthralling story to draw out of this all-slaying work", where "Beyoncé can count herself as a risk-taker breaking new ground, up there with the bravest." Exclaim!'s Erin Lowers wrote that "If you've ever been handed lemons, you need Lemonade", calling it "an album in which millions will find their own struggles reflected back to them, as therapeutic as it is utterly dazzling". Britt Julious of Consequence of Sound describes how "With nods to Voudou and Southern Black gothic storytelling, Lemonade, the visual album, wove chapters of emotional grief into a piece of art about the black woman... Separated from the visual, the album itself acts as dexterously as the film, exposing the rawest elements of Beyoncé's personal life while framing it against the universal — the machinations of internal paranoia, the all-consuming well of fury and anger, and the bottomless depths of sadness." Julious continues by praising the song cycle nature of the album: "Taken as a whole, we hear the threads of this from song to song on the record. If Lemonade is a record about dismantling the cycles of abuse, ripping open the secrets we keep hidden (especially within the closely guarded black community), and finding healing, purpose, and even greatness in the process, then it is personified in the arcs of each track... The songs stand as joined entities, two dichotomous halves of the grief process". PopMatters writer Evan Sawdey felt few albums could ever be considered "as bold, complex, or resolute as Lemonade," and the BBC's Mark Savage, describing Lemonade as "an album with a complex narrative arc... that demands to be heard in one sitting", noted that Beyoncé had become an albums artist with a range extending beyond that of radio play.<br /><br /><br />== Accolades ==<br />At the end of 2016, Lemonade appeared on a number of critics' lists ranking the year's top albums. According to the BBC, it was the critics' top album of 2016, while according to Metacritic, it was the second most prominently ranked record of 2016, and the album that was listed at number one by the most publications (37 publications). Lemonade was ranked as the best album of the year by such publications as Rolling Stone, Billboard, Entertainment Weekly, The Guardian, Digital Spy, The Independent, The Associated Press, The New York Times (Jon Pareles list), Los Angeles Times (Mikael Wood list), Pop Matters, Pretty Much Amazing, Idolator, Stereogum, Complex, Consequence of Sound, Wired, and US Weekly. Paste, USA Today, NPR also included the release on their list of best albums of 2016. The album appeared within the top twenty of numerous publications year end lists including: Village Voice's,Slant, Exclaim!, Spin, NME, FACT, Drowned in Sound, Uncut, Mojo, Q, and Pitchfork.Lemonade was named the best album of the decade (2010s) by Consequence of Sound, The Associated Press and Spex. Lemonade was also named the best music video of the decade by The Daily Beast, as well as one of the best movies of the 2010s by Vox and the eleventh greatest film of the decade by Hyperallergic. Rolling Stone The Independent, New York Post, Billboard, Paste Magazine, The A.V. Club, WXPN The Key, and Refinery29 declared Lemonade the second best album of the 2010s. Lemonade was named the third best album of the decade by Tampa Bay Times, Insider, and The Young Folks, while the Genius community and Chris Willman for Variety named it the fourth best one. Uproxx, Noisey, The Independent, and The Wild Honey Pie named Lemonade the fifth best album of the decade. Pitchfork listed Lemonade as the 41st greatest album of the decade. Time, Paper, Stuff, and The Sydney Morning Herald included the album in their lists of the best 10 albums of the decade. Lemonade was included in The Atlantic's "Time Capsule of the 2010s". Lemonade was included in Triple J's top 15 biggest music moments of the decade list.Lemonade is the 26th best album of all time by Metacritic score. In 2020, Parade named Lemonade the best music video of all time. On Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time list, Lemonade was placed at number 32, citing the album's exploration of "the betrayals of American blackness" and "all of the country's music traditions". BBC Radio 4's named Lemonade the eighth greatest risk in 21st century art, with the judges saying that Beyoncé "resisted the commercial pressure not to be political in order to stand up for what she believed in and let audiences into her personal life as never before". The Guardian listed it at number 25 on their ranking of the 100 best albums of the 21st century. On their list of the top 100 albums of the publication's existence, The Quietus named the project at number 9. In 2017, the album was ranked at number 6 on NPR's list of the 150 Greatest Albums Made By Women. Consequence of Sound named Lemonade the second best album of the last 15 years (2007–2022) and the 18th best one of all time.<br /><br /><br />=== Awards ===<br />"Formation" won in three categories at the 2016 BET Awards for Video of the Year, the Centric Award, and the Viewers Choice Award. At the 2017 BET Awards Beyoncé was nominated in 7 categories and won 5, including Album of the Year, Video of the Year for "Sorry" and Best Female R&B/Pop Artist. The Lemonade film was nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Variety Special and Outstanding Directing for a Variety Special. From the four categories, Beyoncé was nominated in the two mentioned. The album's visuals received 11 nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards. They included Breakthrough Long Form Video for Lemonade, Video of the Year, Best Pop Video, Best Direction, Best Editing, and Best Cinematography for "Formation", Best Female Video and Best Art Direction for "Hold Up", and Best Choreography for "Sorry" and "Formation". Beyoncé went on to win eight of her nominations, including Video of the Year and Breakthrough Long Form Video.She received two nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Japan for Best Album of the Year for Lemonade and Best Female Video International for "Formation", eventually winning for Best Album of the Year. At the 2016 Soul Train Music Awards, Beyoncé was nominated for eight awards including Best Female Artist, Lemonade for Album of the Year, and "Formation" for Song and Video of the Year. Beyoncé went on to win all four awards. Lemonade won Best TV Show – Special or Limited Series at the African American Film Critics Association. At the 2017 NAACP Image Awards, Lemonade was nominated for Outstanding Album and Outstanding Variety – Series or Special, "Formation" was nominated for Outstanding Song and Outstanding Music Video, and "Freedom", featuring Kendrick Lamar, was nominated for Outstanding Duo, Group or Collaboration and Outstanding Song. The album received four awards, including Outstanding Album, Outstanding Song and Outstanding Duo, Group or Collaboration for "Freedom" and Outstanding Music Video for "Formation". At the 2016 ADG Excellence in Production Design Awards, Lemonade received the award for Best Awards or Event Special, as well as "Hold Up", "6 Inch" and "Denial" all being nominated for Best Short Format: Web Series, Music Video or Commercial.At the 59th Annual Grammy Awards, Lemonade received three nominations: Album of the Year, Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Film. "Formation" received three as well: Record of the Year, Song of the Year and Best Music Video. "Hold Up" was nominated for Best Pop Solo Performance, "Don't Hurt Yourself" for Best Rock Performance and "Freedom" for Best Rap/Sung Performance. Beyoncé went on to win two awards, Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best Music Video for "Formation". Lemonade won Outstanding Television Documentary or Special at the 2017 Black Reel Awards.<br />Lemonade won a Peabody Award in Entertainment, along with the following description by the board of jurors:Adroitly bringing together stories about betrayal, renewal, and hope, Lemonade draws from the prolific literary, musical, cinematic, and aesthetic sensibilities of black cultural producers to create a rich tapestry of poetic innovation. Defying genre and convention, Lemonade immerses viewers in the sublime worlds of black women, family, and community where we experience poignant and compelling stories about the lives of women of color and the bonds of friendship seldom seen or heard in American popular culture. This innovative and stunningly beautiful masterpiece challenges us to readjust our visual and sonic antennae and invites a reckoning with taken for granted ideas about who we are. For the audacity of its reach and the fierceness of its vision in challenging our cultural imagination about the intimacies and complexities of women of color, we recognize Lemonade as a Peabody Award winner.<br />—The George Foster Peabody Awards Board of Jurors<br /><br /><br />== Commercial performance ==<br />In the United States, Lemonade debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, with 653,000 album-equivalent units, out of which 485,000 were pure album sales. This made the highest opening-week sales for a female act of the year. Subsequently, she broke the record she previously tied with DMX, by becoming the first artist in the chart's history to have their first six studio albums debut at number one. In the same week, Beyoncé became the first female artist to chart twelve or more songs on the US Billboard Hot 100 at the same time, with every song on the album debuting on the chart. Additionally, Lemonade was streamed 115 million times via Tidal, setting a record for the most-streamed album in a single week by a female artist.The album slipped from number one to number two in its second week, selling 321,000 album-equivalent units, out of which 196,000 were pure album sales. It remained at number two in its third week selling 201,000 album-equivalent units, out of which 153,000 were pure album sales. Lemonade was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in June 2016. According to Nielsen's 2016 year-end report, it had sold 1,554,000 copies and 2,187,000 album-equivalent units in the United States. Following its April 23, 2019 release on all streaming services, Lemonade returned to the top ten on the Billboard 200 at number nine, while its only added song, the original demo of "Sorry", debuted at number four on the US R&B Songs. On May 20, 2019, the album was certified double platinum for shipments of two million copies, and triple platinum on June 13, 2019, for shipments of three million copies. In Canada, the album debuted at number one with sales of 33,000 copies.The album debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart selling 73,000 copies in its first week of release, with 10,000 equivalent sales (14% of the total sales) accounting for streaming, marking the largest ever for a number-one album since the chart began including streaming. The album marked the singer's third number-one album on the chart and was certified platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on September 9, 2016, for shipments of 300,000 copies. All of the album's tracks also debuted within the top hundred of the UK Singles Chart. As in the US, 2020 is the first year since release that the album has not appeared on the UK Chart.<br />In Australia, Lemonade sold 20,490 digital copies in its first week, debuting atop the Australian Albums Chart and becoming Beyoncé's second consecutive number-one album in the country. It received a double platinum certification from the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) in 2023, for sales of 140,000 equivalent units.Lemonade also peaked atop the charts in numerous European and Oceanic countries including Ireland and Belgium, where it spent five and seven weeks at the summit, respectively, Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Scotland and Sweden. In Brazil, it debuted at number one and received a platinum certification from Pro-Música Brasil.<br /><br /><br />== Impact and legacy ==<br /><br /><br />=== Music industry ===<br />Lemonade has been credited with reviving the concept of an album in an era dominated by singles and streaming, and popularizing releasing albums with accompanying films. Jamieson Cox for The Verge called Lemonade "the endpoint of a slow shift toward cohesive, self-centered pop albums", writing that "it's setting a new standard for pop storytelling at the highest possible scale". Megan Carpentier of The Guardian wrote that Lemonade has "almost revived the album format" as "an immersive, densely textured large-scale work" that can only be listened to in its entirety. Myf Warhurst on Double J's "Lunch With Myf" explained that Beyoncé "changed [the album] to a narrative with an arc and a story and you have to listen to the entire thing to get the concept". The New York Times' Katherine Schulten agreed, asking "How do you talk about the ongoing evolution of the music video and the autobiographical album without holding up Lemonade as an exemplar of both forms?" Joe Coscarelli of The New York Times describes how "some brand-name acts are following Beyoncé's blueprint with high-concept mini-movies that can add artistic heft to projects," with Frank Ocean's Endless and Drake's Please Forgive Me cited as examples of artists' projects inspired by Lemonade. Other projects said to have followed the precedent that Lemonade set include Lonely Island's The Unauthorized Bash Brothers Experience, Thom Yorke's Anima, Sturgill Simpson's Sound & Fury, and Kid Cudi's Entergalactic, which were all albums released with complementary film projects.Beyoncé's use of various genres on Lemonade has been credited with setting the precedent for music to transcend genre, with NPR writing that the album "leads us to this moment where post-genre becomes a thing". The use of various genres has also been credited with kickstarting the reclamation of certain genres by black people. "Daddy Lessons" has been credited as starting a trend of "pop stars toying with American West and Southern aesthetics," as well as setting the precedent for "The Yeehaw Agenda," the trend of reclaiming black cowboy culture through music and fashion. "Don't Hurt Yourself" has been credited with the reclaiming of rock by black women, with Brittany Spanos for Rolling Stone writing that "the re-imagination of what rock can be and who can sing it by Beyoncé and her superstar peers is giving the genre a second life – and may be what can save it."<br /><br /><br />==== Contemporaries ====<br />Several musicians were inspired by Lemonade. American rapper Snoop Dogg named his fourteenth studio album Coolaid (2016) after Lemonade. British girl group Little Mix cited Lemonade as an inspiration for their album Glory Days (2016). American rapper Cardi B was inspired by Lemonade for her upcoming album, which she says is "going to have my Lemonade moments". Naming Lemonade one of her favorite albums ever, English singer-songwriter Ellie Rowsell of Wolf Alice said that it helped her to "put in more thought to what makes a good album flow". American singer The-Dream wrote a response to Lemonade titled "Lemon Lean" in his EP Love You to Death, saying that the album changed the way people think about their relationships. American singer Lauren Jenkins used Lemonade as the inspiration for her album and long-form music video No Saint. American comedian Lahna Turner released a visual album entitled Limeade in homage to Lemonade. American singer Matt Palmer was inspired by Lemonade to create his visual EP Get Lost. American musician Todrick Hall's second studio album Straight Outta Oz was made as a visual album due to Lemonade. British singer-songwriter Arrow Benjamin was also inspired by Lemonade for his 2016 EP W.A.R. (We All Rise), saying: "Every piece on this project was created from a visual, so that's why I was extremely inspired when I saw Lemonade."Ann Powers for NPR opined that Fiona Apple was influenced by Lemonade when implementing black musical traditions on her 2020 album Fetch the Bolt Cutters, while Jenna Wortham for The New York Times drew a parallel between both albums as "blueprints for how to take in all that emotion and kind of how to push it back out in a way that's cathartic and constructive". Dan Weiss of Billboard wrote that Shania Twain's Now "couldn't have existed without" Lemonade, as an album that "completely changed the course of breakup album history" in which the artist is "someone at their full creative peak pushing herself into new niches, dominating new musical territories." Kadeen Griffiths from Bustle states that Lemonade, as an album that deals with issues related to black women, "paved the way" for Alicia Keys' Here and Solange's A Seat at the Table. Danielle Koku for The Guardian stated that Lemonade aided the return of African mysticism to pop music, writing: "By taking African mysticism to the world stage, Beyoncé stripped it of its ancient pagan labels." Many critics have noted that Jay-Z's thirteenth studio album 4:44 (2017) is a response to Lemonade, with Jay-Z referencing lines from Lemonade, such as the "You better call Becky with the good hair" line on Beyoncé's "Sorry", with Jay-Z retorting: "Let me alone, Becky" in "Family Feud".At the 59th Annual Grammy Awards (2017), Adele dedicated her Album of the Year award to Beyoncé and said: "The artist of my life is Beyoncé... the Lemonade album, is just so monumental." In a 2021 interview with Vogue, Adele claimed that Beyoncé should have won the said award instead of her. After the show, she went into Beyoncé's dressing room and "said to her, like, the way that the Grammys works, and the people who control it at the very, very top—they don't know what a visual album is. They don't want to support the way that she's moving things forward with her releases and the things that she's talking about." She revealed that the award she received in the mail was broken and that she wedged a lemon into the broken part, and went on to claim that, "[f]or [her] friends who are women of color, [Lemonade] was such a huge acknowledgment for them, of the sort of undermined grief that they go through." American musician Stevie Wonder called Lemonade "a great work, a great art piece". U2's Bono included "Freedom" in his "60 Songs That Saved My Life" project to celebrate his 60th birthday, writing: "In my 60 years, I was served many platters but rarely one like the Queen Bey's album Lemonade."<br /><br /><br />=== Popular culture ===<br /><br /><br />==== Art and literature ====<br /><br />Lemonade has inspired artists in media other than music, including art, literature, film, television, and theatre. Misha Green, creator of the 2020 television series Lovecraft Country, described how Lemonade inspired the direction and flow of the show's score, saying: "What Beyoncé did on Lemonade, with bringing in the poems and taking us on this collage of a journey, that wasn't just music and visuals. [It was] also words and using those words as a score." Bill Condon, director of the film Beauty and the Beast (2017) says the visuals behind Lemonade inspired him for the movie: "You look at Beyoncé's brilliant movie Lemonade, this genre is taking on so many different forms… I do think that this very old-school break-out-into-song traditional musical is something that people understand again and really want.".The Royal National Theatre's 2018 production of Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra featured a costume inspired by Lemonade, with costume designer Evie Gurney describing how she wanted to draw a parallel between Cleopatra and Beyoncé, as the latter is "a woman in the public eye who was subject to a lot of scrutiny [and] actually created a platform for herself to take back the narrative of her own story, and it was an extraordinary act of power." The character of Catherine of Aragon in the West End and Broadway musical Six was inspired by "Lemonade-era Beyoncé". Ellie Kenrick's 2018 play Hole at the Royal Court was described by its directors as "a stage version of Beyoncé's Lemonade album", as an artwork about feminism and historical oppression of women that consists of song, dance and spoken word.Fashion stylist Salvador Camarena paid homage to Lemonade by designing a room dedicated to the album during Modernism Week, saying "That album is such a visually stunning album. There are so many iconic looks from the video, I kind of wanted to implement that world into that room." The young adult anthology A Phoenix First Must Burn edited by Patrice Caldwell, which explores "the Black experience through fantasy, science fiction, and magic", has the aim of "evoking Beyoncé's Lemonade for a teen audience". A 2017 video game titled "Lemonade Rage" was created in homage to Lemonade and the "Hold Up" music video. The cover of Marvel's 2017 America comic book paid homage to the "Formation" music video, with its illustrator saying "America is a comic that is all about representation, feminism and fighting for what's right... I could think of no better parallel than Beyoncé."<br /><br /><br />==== Trends ====<br />Sales for Warsan Shire's chapbook "Teaching My Mother How to Give Birth" increased by 700 to 800% after her poetry was included in the Lemonade film. Beyoncé's mention of Red Lobster in "Formation" increased sales at the restaurant chain by 33%, which made employees rename popular menu items after Beyoncé and call the effect the "Beyoncé Bounce". Designers of the costumes that Beyoncé wore in the Lemonade film spoke with Complex about the impact that this had on their careers; for example, Natalia Fedner, who designed Beyoncé's dress for "Hold Up", stated that because of the dress's inclusion in Lemonade, "I was on 'Entertainment Tonight' being hailed as a 'designer to watch'." The inclusion of imagery from the 1991 film Daughters of the Dust in the visuals for Lemonade helped bring the film back to theatres, with director Julie Dash stating that Lemonade "just took me places that I had not been seeing in a long, long time. It just re-confirmed a lot of things that I know to be true about visual style and visual metaphors. And the use of visual metaphors in creating, redefining, and re-framing a Creole culture within this new world."The popular "Lemonade braids" hairstyle worn by black women is named after a hairstyle that Beyoncé wore in Lemonade. Georgia Murray for Refinery29 sourced the 2020 fashion trend of wearing yellow to Lemonade, writing that Beyoncé's yellow dress in "Hold Up" "kickstarted an obsession with yellow that we're still seeing the effects of today". The use of the lemon and bee emojis increased due to the release of Lemonade, with a Twitter spokesperson telling Time: "Before Lemonade, the lemon emoji had no meaning. Since the launch of Lemonade, the emoji has taken on a meaning of its own". The MTV Video Music Award for Breakthrough Long Form Video, which Beyoncé ultimately won at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards, was reintroduced after 25 years due to the Lemonade film.<br /><br /><br />==== Parodies and homages ====<br />Lemonade was parodied and was paid homage to in various media. In an episode of Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt titled "Kimmy's Roommate Lemonades!", character Titus Andromedon parodied the videos for "Hold Up", "Sorry" and "All Night" after he suspects his boyfriend of infidelity, coining the term "Lemonading". This episode was subsequently nominated for two Emmy Awards: Outstanding Original Music And Lyrics for the "Hold Up" parody "Hell No", and Outstanding Supporting Actor In A Comedy Series for Tituss Burgess. The "Hold Up" music video was also paid homage to in The Simpsons, Making a Scene with James Franco, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, and The Daily Show.SNL produced two sketches on Lemonade: one entitled "The Day Beyoncé Turned Black" after Beyoncé released the "unapologetically black" "Formation", and the other entitled "Melanianade" which parodied the "Sorry" music video featuring impersonations of Donald Trump's female family members and aides. In a Late Night with Seth Meyers sketch titled "Beyoncé Lemonade Late Night Aftermath", females staffers empowered by Lemonade paid homage to the visuals, costumes, songs and poetry featured in the film. The Late Late Show with James Corden produced a parody entitled "Lemonjames: A Visual Monologue", where James Corden gave his monologue by recreating parts of the Lemonade film such as the "Pray You Catch Me", "Don't Hurt Yourself" and "6 Inch" music videos. Actress Goldie Hawn and comedian Amy Schumer produced a parody of "Formation". The Season 2 premiere of Crazy Ex-Girlfriend featured a musical number that was an homage to Lemonade, including parodies of "Formation" and "Pray You Catch Me".For Beyoncé's 36th birthday, various black female public figures recreated a costume that Beyoncé wore in the "Formation" music video, including Michelle Obama and Serena Williams. The first episode of British comedian James Acaster's 2020 podcast titled Perfect Sounds (in which Acaster discusses why 2016 was the greatest year in music with various comedians) featured Romesh Ranganathan and focused on "the genius of Lemonade".<br /><br /><br />=== Intellectual response ===<br />Lemonade has also received notable attention from scholars and authors outside the music industry. In partnership with the Zora Neale Hurston Festival of the Arts and Humanities, a talk at Seminole State College "discussed how Beyoncé embodies the conjure woman in her iconic audiovisual work Lemonade as a contemporary revision of Zora Neale Hurston's groundbreaking study of conjure and its place in Black women's spirit work." Museum of Design Atlanta (MODA) announced "The Lemonade Project", a twelve-month series of conversations centered around the visual album. The series will explore the themes of race, gender and class addressed by the album.Kinitra Brooks and Kameelah Martin have produced "The Lemonade Reader", described as "an educational tool to support and guide discussions of the visual album at postgraduate and undergraduate levels, [which] critiques Lemonade's multiple Afrodiasporic influences, visual aesthetics, narrative arc of grief and healing, and ethnomusicological reach." University of Texas at Austin professor Omise'eke Tinsley wrote a book entitled Beyoncé in Formation: Remixing Black Feminism that was released in 2018, which "analyzes Beyoncé's visual album, Lemonade, in relation to the sexuality and gender of Black women". University of Albany professor Janell Hobson produced a lesson plan based on her class on Lemonade, saying "Beyoncé's Lemonade stimulates class discussions and assignments as a highly visible pop project striving to create deeper conversations on the meanings of Blackness, womanhood, and feminism." Dissect Podcast have since dedicated their sixth season to "Beyoncé's masterwork Lemonade." The host, Cole Cuchna and cohost Titi Shodiya, "make leaps of interpretative wonder, fusing insights, music theory, instrumentation, and lyric interpretation with social analysis to empower fans to build deeper connections with Beyoncé's artistry."<br /><br /><br />==== Race and identity ====<br />In a 2020 New York Times article titled "The African-American Art Shaping the 21st Century", which contained 35 prominent black artists talking about the work that inspires them most, American actress Kerry Washington relayed about Lemonade as a game changer "visually, musically, but also sociopolitically, and anthropologically. The release of "Formation" and the consequent performance at the Super Bowl 50 halftime show caused both conversation and controversy due to its "unapologetic Blackness". Many articles and think pieces were produced discussing the importance and meaning of the song and performance, such as the BBC, who produced an article entitled "Beyoncé's Super Bowl performance: Why was it so significant?", and TheWrap, who produced an article entitled "Why Beyoncé's 'Formation' Matters So Much: A Perfectly Choreographed Political Debut Before 112 Million." Lemonade as a whole also inspired many think pieces, particularly written by black women, that analyze the messages and significance of the album, such as Miriam Bale for Billboard who named Lemonade "a revolutionary work of black feminism".Megan Carpentier of The Guardian named the album "a pop culture phenomenon" and wrote: "It is not an exaggeration to say that there is no other living musical artist who could ignite such a broad and unavoidable conversation just by releasing a new album – even a visual one." Writing in the same publication, Syreeta McFadden noted that the "Formation" video depicts archetypal southern Black women "in ways that we haven't seen frequently represented in popular art or culture". Melissa Harris-Perry of Time magazine said that "Beyoncé publicly embraced explicitly feminist Blackness at a politically risky moment."<br /><br /><br />==== Academic study ====<br />Since its release, the album has spawned a large syllabus of literature and academic studies. The University of Texas at San Antonio offered a class in the Fall of 2016 based on the album. The course, titled "Black Women, Beyoncé and Popular Culture", explored how the visual album "is a meditation on contemporary Black womanhood," before advancing and diving into the "theoretical, historical, and literary frameworks of Black feminism," according to the syllabus.<br />The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga hosted a "Lemonade Week" in April 2017, which featured discussions on feminism, theatrical performances, celebrations of African-American women writers and poets, and choreography tutorials. Harvard University hosted "The Lemon Drop": a discussion that explored the nuances of Lemonade. University of Arkansas offered a course that analysed the influence of Black feminism on Beyoncé and Lemonade. University of Pennsylvania ran two courses that explored politics, race and gender through the study of Lemonade.Michigan State University hosted a discussion on Lemonade as part of their series for "exchanging ideas and exploring the lived experiences of underrepresented and marginalized communities".Chatham University based a writing class on Lemonade, where "students get to examine how they fit into the power systems around them". Valdosta State University offered a course on Lemonade, "unpacking the many themes found in "Lemonade," including Black identity, feminism, marital infidelity, sisterhood, and faith." The College of Charleston hosted a discussion by Black feminist scholars, exploring "Beyoncé's use of southern landscape, Black women, music, and African-based spirituality". University of North Georgia offered a class entitled "Okay, Ladies, Now Let's Get in Formation: Intersectional Feminism in Beyoncé's Lemonade" that explored the music, lyrics and visuals of Lemonade.<br /><br /><br />== Track listing ==<br /><br />Notes^[a] signifies a co-producer.<br />^[b] signifies an additional producer.<br />^[c] signifies an additional director.<br /><br /><br />=== Sample credits ===<br />"Hold Up"<br />contains elements of "Can't Get Used to Losing You", performed by Andy Williams, written by Doc Pomus and Mort Shuman<br />embodies portions of "Turn My Swag On", performed by Soulja Boy, written by DeAndre Way, Antonio Randolph and Kelvin McConnell<br />contains elements of "Maps", performed by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, written by Brian Chase, Karen Orzolek and Nick Zinner.<br />"Don't Hurt Yourself"<br />features samples from "When the Levee Breaks", performed by Led Zeppelin, written by James Page, Robert Plant, John Paul Jones and John Bonham.<br />"6 Inch"<br />embodies portions of "My Girls", performed by Animal Collective, written by Dave Portner, Noah Lennox and Brian Weitz<br />contains samples from "Walk On By", performed by Isaac Hayes, written by Burt Bacharach and Hal David.<br />"Freedom"<br />contains a sample of "Let Me Try", performed by Kaleidoscope, written by Frank Tirado<br />contains a sample of "Collection Speech/Unidentified Lining Hymn", performed by Reverend R.C. Crenshaw, recorded by Alan Lomax<br />contains a sample of "Stewball", performed by Prisoner "22" at Mississippi State Penitentiary at Parchman, recorded by Alan Lomax and John Lomax, Sr.<br />"All Night"<br />contains elements of "SpottieOttieDopaliscious", performed by OutKast, written by André Benjamin, Antwan Patton and Patrick Brown.<br />"Sorry (original demo)"<br />interpolates "Young, Wild & Free", as performed by Snoop Dogg, Wiz Khalifa and Bruno Mars.<br />Lemonade<br />contains a sample of "The Court of the Crimson King", performed by King Crimson, written by Ian McDonald and Peter Sinfield.<br /><br /><br />== Personnel ==<br />Credits from the album's liner notes, Beyoncé's official website, and Spotify<br />Musicians<br />Technical<br /><br /><br />== Charts ==<br /><br /><br />== Certifications and sales ==<br /><br /><br />== Release history ==<br /><br /><br />== See also ==<br />Album era<br />List of Billboard 200 number-one albums of 2016<br />List of Billboard number-one R&B/hip-hop albums of 2016<br />List of number-one albums of 2016 (Australia)<br />List of number-one albums of 2016 (Belgium)<br />List of number-one albums of 2016 (Canada)<br />List of number-one albums of the 2010s (Czech Republic)<br />List of number-one albums of 2016 (Ireland)<br />List of number-one albums in Norway<br />List of number-one albums of 2016 (Portugal)<br />List of number-one singles and albums in Sweden<br />List of UK Albums Chart number ones of the 2010s<br />List of UK R&B Albums Chart number ones of 2016<br /><br /><br />== References ==<br /><br /><br />== External links ==<br />Lemonade at Discogs (list of releases)<br />Beyoncé's 'Lemonade' and Information Resources, a Resource Guide from the Maryland Institute College of Art<br />Beyoncé: Lemonade at IMDb Nombre alternativo: Formation (album) Lemonade (Beyoncé song) Beyoncé: Lemonade Beyoncé Lemonade Lemonade (Beyonce album) Lemonade (Beyoncé) Lemonade (Beyoncé film) Lemonade (Beyoncé special) Lemonade (HBO) Lemonade (film) Sandcastles (song) Mostrar en timeline: Yes


--- [Beyoncé (album)] ---
Beyoncé is the fifth studio album by American singer Beyoncé. A visual album, it was surprise-released on December 13, 2013, through Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records. The songs and videos were recorded in secrecy to accompany the unexpected release.
Beyoncé initially worked with various producers and songwriters whom she invited to live in her mansion for a month in mid-2012. After a disruption from touring, Beyoncé resumed in early 2013 and experimented with different styles than contemporary R&B. The result is an electro-R&B record with elements of alternative R&B, electronic, and soul. Its soundscape is textured and ambient, characterized by heavy bass, percussion, and synthesizers. Beyoncé's desire to assert full artistic autonomy influenced the album's dark, personal lyricism that deals with sexuality and monogamy with a feminist approach.
Upon release, Beyoncé broke the record for the fastest-selling album in the history of the iTunes Store. It debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 and has been certified five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. The album also reached number one in Australia, Canada, Croatia, the Netherlands, and Poland. Five songs were released as singles: "Blow", "XO", "Drunk in Love", "Partition", and "Pretty Hurts"; "Drunk in Love" reached number two on the US Billboard Hot 100. The album was reissued as a Platinum Edition on November 24, 2014, and was supported by the Mrs. Carter Show World Tour and the Jay-Z co-headlining On the Run Tour.
Beyoncé received widespread critical acclaim for its experimental production, vocals, and exploration of sexuality; various critics have considered it Beyoncé's magnum opus. At the 57th Annual Grammy Awards in 2015, it won Best Surround Sound Album, and "Drunk in Love" won Best R&B Song and Best R&B Performance. In 2020, Beyoncé was ranked 81st in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. The album has been credited with popularizing the contemporary visual album, and its surprise release prompted the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry to change Global Release Day from Tuesday to Friday.


--- [Beyoncé | JH Wiki Collection Wiki | Fandom] ---
Script error: No such module "other uses". Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter (Lua error: expandTemplate: template "Template:IPA audio link" does not exist. Script error: No such module "Respell".;[6] Template:Née Knowles; born September 4, 1981)[7] is an American singer, songwriter, and businesswoman. Nicknamed "Queen Bey", she is regarded as a prominent cultural figure of the 21st century. Throughout her two-decade career, Beyoncé has been recognized for her distinctive vocal artistry and live concert performances.[8] Rolling Stone named her the world's greatest living entertainer in 2022, and one of the greatest vocalists of all time in 2023.[9] As a child, Beyoncé started performing in various singing and dancing competitions. She rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of the R&B girl group Destiny's Child, one of the best-selling girl groups of all time. Their hiatus saw the release of Beyoncé's debut album, Dangerously in Love (2003). She then followed with the U.S. number-one solo albums B'Day (2006), I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008), and 4 (2011). After creating her own management company Parkwood Entertainment, Beyoncé achieved critical acclaim for the experimental visual albums Beyoncé (2013) and Lemonade (2016), which explored themes such as feminism and womanism. With her Black queer-inspired dance album Renaissance (2022) and country album Cowboy Carter (2024) from her trilogy project, she became the only female artist to have all of her first eight solo studio albums debut at number one on the Billboard 200. Beyoncé's most successful songs on the Billboard Hot 100 include "Crazy in Love", "Baby Boy", "Check On It", "Irreplaceable", "If I Were a Boy", "Halo", "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)", "Drunk in Love", "Break My Soul", "Cuff It" and "Texas Hold 'Em". She is the only woman in history to achieve at least 20 top 10 songs as a solo artist and 10 as a member of a group.[10] Her collaborative music ventures include Everything Is Love (2018), an album with her husband, rapper Jay-Z, released as the Carters, and the musical film Black Is King (2020), inspired by the music of the film soundtrack The Lion King: The Gift (2019). Self-directed concert films, including Homecoming: A Film by Beyoncé (2019) and Renaissance: A Film by Beyoncé (2023), document some of her most acclaimed onstage performances. Outside of music, she has starred as an actress in films such as Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002), The Pink Panther (2006), Dreamgirls (2006), Cadillac Records (2008), Obsessed (2009), and The Lion King (2019). Having sold 200 million records worldwide,[11][12] Beyoncé is one of the best-selling music artists of all time. Her accolades include a record 32 Grammy Awards, as well as 26 MTV Video Music Awards (including the 2014 Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award), 24 NAACP Image Awards, 35 BET Awards, and 17 Soul Train Music Awards – all of which are more than any other artist in the music industry. Her success during the 2000s earned her recognition as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)'s Top Certified Artist of the Decade and Billboard's Top Female Artist and Top Radio Songs Artist of the Decade.[13] She is the most successful black touring act in history and received the Pollstar Touring Artist of the Decade award in 2021.[14][15] Time included her as one of the 100 women who has so far defined the 21st century.[16] Early life[] Beyonce Giselle Knowles[lower-alpha 1] was born on September 4, 1981, at the Park Plaza Hospital[17] in Houston, Texas to Celestine "Tina" Knowles (née Beyonce), a hairdresser and salon owner, and Mathew Knowles, a Xerox sales manager.[18] Tina is Louisiana Creole and Mathew is African American.[19][20][21][22] Beyoncé's younger sister, Solange Knowles, is also a singer and a former backup dancer for Destiny's Child. Solange and Beyoncé are the first sisters to have both had number one solo albums.[23] Beyoncé's maternal grandparents, Lumis Albert Beyincé and Agnéz Deréon (daughter of Odilia Broussard and Eugène DeRouen),[24] were French-speaking Louisiana Creoles, with roots in New Iberia;[25][24][26] She is a descendant of Acadian militia officer Joseph Broussard, who was exiled to French Louisiana after the expulsion of the Acadians, and of the French military officer and Abenaki chief Jean-Vincent d'Abbadie, Baron de Saint-Castin.[20][27] She has additional Breton heritage. Beyoncé's fourth great-grandmother, Marie-Françoise Trahan, was born in 1774 in Bangor, located on Belle Île, France. Trahan was a daughter of Acadians who had taken refuge on Belle Île after the Acadian expulsion. The Estates of Brittany had divided the lands of Belle Île to distribute them among 78 other Acadian families and the already settled inhabitants. The Trahan family lived on Belle Île for over ten years before migrating to Louisiana, where she married a Broussard descendant.[28] Beyoncé researched her ancestry and discovered that she is descended from a slave owner who married his slave.[29] Her mother is also of distant Irish, Jewish, Spanish, Chinese and Indonesian ancestry.[30][31][32][25] Beyoncé also has Belgian ancestry from Hainaut Province, Wallonia and is related to a former mayor of Froidchapelle, Belgium.[33][34] Beyoncé was raised Methodist and attended St. John's United Methodist Church in Houston.[35][36] As her mother's family was Catholic, her family attended Midnight mass at St. Mary of the Purification Catholic Church on Christmas Eve.[37] She went to St. Mary's Catholic Montessori School in Houston and enrolled in dance classes there.[38] Her singing ability was discovered when dance instructor Darlette Johnson began humming a song and Beyonce finished it, able to hit the high-pitched notes.[39] Beyoncé's interest in music and performing continued after winning a school talent show at age seven, singing John Lennon's "Imagine" to beat 15/16-year-olds.[40][41] In the fall of 1990, Beyoncé enrolled in Parker Elementary School, a music magnet school in Houston, where she performed with the school's choir.[42] She also attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts[43] and later Alief Elsik High School.[19][44] Beyoncé was also a member of the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church where she sang her first solo and was a soloist for two years.[35][45] Career[] Career beginnings[] When Beyoncé was eight, she met LaTavia Roberson at an audition for an all-girl entertainment group.[46] They were placed into a group called Girl's Tyme with three other girls, and rapped and danced on the talent show circuit in Houston.[47] After seeing the group, R&B producer Arne Frager brought them to his Northern California studio and placed them in Star Search, the largest talent show on national TV at the time. Girl's Tyme failed to win, and Beyoncé later said the song they performed was not good.[48][49] In 1995, Beyoncé's father, Matthew, resigned from his job to manage the group.[50] The move reduced the family's income by half, and Beyoncé's parents were forced to sell their house and cars and move into separated apartments.[19][51] Mathew cut the original line-up to four and the group continued performing as an opening act for other established R&B girl groups.[46] The girls auditioned before record labels and were finally signed to Elektra Records, moving to Atlanta Records briefly to work on their first recording, only to be cut by the company.[19] This put further strain on the family, and Beyoncé's parents separated. On October 5, 1995, Dwayne Wiggins's Grass Roots Entertainment signed the group. In 1996, the girls began recording their debut album under an agreement with Sony Music, the Knowles family reunited, and shortly after, the group got a contract with Columbia Records with the assistance of Columbia talent scout Teresa LaBarbera Whites.[40] 1997–2002: Destiny's Child[] - Main article: Destiny's Child The group changed their name to Destiny's Child in 1996, based upon a passage in the Book of Isaiah.[52] In 1997, Destiny's Child released their major label debut song "Killing Time" on the soundtrack to the 1997 film Men in Black.[49] In November, the group released their debut single and first major hit, "No, No, No". They released their self-titled debut album in February 1998, which established the group as a viable act in the music industry.[46] The group released their Multi-Platinum second album The Writing's on the Wall in 1999. The record features songs such as "Bills, Bills, Bills", the group's first number-one single, "Jumpin' Jumpin'Template:-" and "Say My Name", which became their most successful song at the time, and would remain one of their signature songs. "Say My Name" won the Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals and the Best R&B Song at the 43rd Annual Grammy Awards.[46] The Writing's on the Wall sold more than eight million copies worldwide.[48] During this time, Beyoncé recorded a duet with Marc Nelson, an original member of Boyz II Men, on the song "After All Is Said and Done" for the soundtrack to the 1999 film, The Best Man.[53] The remaining band members recorded "Independent Women Part I", which appeared on the soundtrack to the 2000 film Charlie's Angels. It became their best-charting single, topping the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart for eleven consecutive weeks.[46] In early 2001, while Destiny's Child was completing their third album, Beyoncé landed a major role in the MTV made-for-television film, Carmen: A Hip Hopera, starring alongside American actor Mekhi Phifer. Set in Philadelphia, the film is a modern interpretation of the 19th-century opera Carmen by French composer Georges Bizet.[54] When the third album Survivor was released in May 2001, Luckett and Roberson filed a lawsuit claiming that the songs were aimed at them.[46] The album debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200, with first-week sales of 663,000 copies sold.[55] The album spawned other number-one hits, "Bootylicious" and the title track, "Survivor", the latter of which earned the group a Grammy Award for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals.[56] After releasing their holiday album 8 Days of Christmas in October 2001, the group announced a hiatus to further pursue solo careers.[46] In July 2002, Beyoncé made her theatrical film debut, playing Foxxy Cleopatra alongside Mike Myers in the comedy film Austin Powers in Goldmember,[57] which spent its first weekend atop the U.S. box office and grossed $73 million.[58] Beyoncé released "Work It Out" as the lead single from its soundtrack album which entered the top ten in the UK, Norway, and Belgium.[59] In 2003, Beyoncé starred opposite Cuba Gooding Jr. in the musical comedy The Fighting Temptations as Lilly, a single mother with whom Gooding's character falls in love.[60] The film received mixed reviews from critics but grossed $30 million in the U.S.[61][62] Beyoncé released "Fighting Temptation" as the lead single from the film's soundtrack album, with Missy Elliott, MC Lyte, and Free which was also used to promote the film.[63] Another of Beyoncé's contributions to the soundtrack, "Summertime", fared better on the U.S. charts.[64] 2003–2007: Dangerously in Love, B'Day, and Dreamgirls[] Beyoncé's first solo recording was a feature on Jay-Z's song Template:"-'03 Bonnie & Clyde" that was released in October 2002, peaking at number four on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.[66] On June 14, 2003, Beyoncé premiered songs from her first solo album Dangerously in Love during her first solo concert and the pay-per-view television special, "Ford Presents Beyoncé Knowles, Friends & Family, Live From Ford's 100th Anniversary Celebration in Dearborn, Michigan".[67] The album was released on June 24, 2003, after Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland had released their solo efforts.[68] The album sold 317,000 copies in its first week, debuted atop the Billboard 200,[69] and has since sold 11 million copies worldwide.[70] The album's lead single, "Crazy in Love", featuring Jay-Z, became Beyoncé's first number-one single as a solo artist in the US.[71] The single "Baby Boy" also reached number one,[65] and singles, "Me, Myself and I" and "Naughty Girl", both reached the top-five.[72] The album earned Beyoncé a then record-tying five awards at the 46th Annual Grammy Awards; Best Contemporary R&B Album, Best Female R&B Vocal Performance for "Dangerously in Love 2", Best R&B Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration for "Crazy in Love", and Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals for "The Closer I Get to You" with Luther Vandross. During the ceremony, she performed with Prince.[73] In November 2003, she embarked on the Dangerously in Love Tour in Europe and later toured alongside Missy Elliott and Alicia Keys for the Verizon Ladies First Tour in North America.[74] On February 1, 2004, Beyoncé performed the American national anthem at Super Bowl XXXVIII, at the Reliant Stadium in Houston, Texas.[75] After the release of Dangerously in Love, Beyoncé had planned to produce a follow-up album using several of the left-over tracks. However, this was put on hold so she could concentrate on recording Destiny Fulfilled, the final studio album by Destiny's Child.[76] Released on November 15, 2004, in the U.S.[77] and peaking at number two on the Billboard 200,[78][79] Destiny Fulfilled included the singles "Lose My Breath" and "Soldier", which reached the top five on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.[80] Destiny's Child embarked on a worldwide concert tour, Destiny Fulfilled... and Lovin' It sponsored by McDonald's Corporation,[81] and performed songs such as "No, No, No", "Survivor", "Say My Name", "Independent Women" and "Lose My Breath". In addition to renditions of the group's recorded material, they also performed songs from each singer's solo careers, including numbers from Dangerously in Love. During the last stop of their European tour, in Barcelona on June 11, 2005, Rowland announced that Destiny's Child would disband following the North American leg of the tour.[82] The group released their first compilation album Number 1's on October 25, 2005, in the U.S.[83] and accepted a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in March 2006.[84] The group has sold 60 million records worldwide.[85][86] Beyoncé's second solo album B'Day was released on September 4, 2006, in the U.S., to coincide with her twenty-fifth birthday.[87] It sold 541,000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200, becoming Beyoncé's second consecutive number-one album in the United States.[88] The album's lead single "Déjà Vu", featuring Jay-Z, reached the top five on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.[72] The second international single "Irreplaceable" was a commercial success worldwide, reaching number one in Australia, Hungary, Ireland, New Zealand and the United States.[72][89] B'Day also produced three other singles; "Ring the Alarm",[90] "Get Me Bodied",[91] and "Green Light" (released in the United Kingdom only).[92] At the 49th Annual Grammy Awards (2007), B'Day was nominated for five Grammy Awards, including Best Contemporary R&B Album, Best Female R&B Vocal Performance for "Ring the Alarm" and Best R&B Song and Best Rap/Sung Collaboration"for "Déjà Vu"; the Freemasons club mix of "Déjà Vu" without the rap was put forward in the Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical category. B'Day won the award for Best Contemporary R&B Album.[93] The following year, B'Day received two nominations – for Record of the Year for "Irreplaceable" and Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals for "Beautiful Liar" (with Shakira), also receiving a nomination for Best Compilation Soundtrack Album for Motion Pictures, Television or Other Visual Media for her appearance on Dreamgirls: Music from the Motion Picture (2006).[94] Her first acting role of 2006 was in the comedy film The Pink Panther starring opposite Steve Martin,[95] grossing $158.8 million at the box office worldwide.[96] Her second film Dreamgirls, the film version of the 1981 Broadway musical[97] loosely based on The Supremes, received acclaim from critics and grossed $154 million internationally.[98][99][100] In it, she starred opposite Jennifer Hudson, Jamie Foxx, and Eddie Murphy playing a pop singer based on Diana Ross.[101] To promote the film, Beyoncé released "Listen" as the lead single from the soundtrack album.[102] In April 2007, Beyoncé embarked on The Beyoncé Experience, her first worldwide concert tour, visiting 97 venues[103] and grossed over $24 million.[lower-alpha 3] Beyoncé conducted pre-concert food donation drives during six major stops in conjunction with her pastor at St. John's and America's Second Harvest. At the same time, B'Day was re-released with five additional songs, including her duet with Shakira "Beautiful Liar".[105] 2008–2012: I Am... Sasha Fierce and 4[] I Am... Sasha Fierce was released in November 2008 and formally introduced Beyoncé's alter ego Sasha Fierce.[106] It was met with mixed reviews from critics,[107] but sold 482,000 copies in its first week, debuting atop the Billboard 200, and giving Beyoncé her third consecutive number-one album in the U.S.[108] The album featured her fourth UK number-one single "If I Were a Boy" and her fifth U.S. number-one song "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)".[109] "Halo" achieved the accomplishment of becoming her longest-running Hot 100 single in her career,[110] "HaloTemplate:" 's success in the U.S. helped Beyoncé attain more top-ten singles on the list than any other woman during the 2000s.[111] The music video for "Single Ladies" has been parodied and imitated around the world, spawning the "first major dance craze" of the Internet age according to the Toronto Star.[112] At the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards, the video won three categories, including Video of the Year.[113] Its failure to win the Best Female Video category, which went to Taylor Swift's "You Belong with Me", led to Kanye West interrupting the ceremony and Beyoncé improvising a re-presentation of Swift's award during her own acceptance speech.[113] In March 2009, Beyoncé embarked on the I Am... Tour, her second headlining worldwide concert tour, consisting of 108 shows, grossing $119.5 million.[114] Beyoncé further expanded her acting career, starring as blues singer Etta James in the 2008 musical biopic Cadillac Records. Her performance in the film received praise from critics,[115] and she garnered several nominations for her portrayal of James, including a Satellite Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress, and a NAACP Image Award nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress.[116][117] Beyoncé donated her entire salary from the film to Phoenix House, an organization of rehabilitation centers for heroin addicts around the country.[118] Beyoncé starred opposite Ali Larter and Idris Elba in the thriller, Obsessed. She played Sharon Charles, a mother and wife whose family is threatened by her husband's stalker. The film received negative reviews from critics,[119] and did well at the U.S. box office, grossing $68 million – $60 million more than Cadillac Records[120] – on a budget of $20 million.[121] At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards, Beyoncé received ten nominations, tying with Lauryn Hill for most Grammy nominations in a single year by a female artist.[122] Beyoncé went on to win six of those nominations, breaking a record she previously tied in 2004 for the most Grammy awards won in a single night by a female artist with six. In 2010, Beyoncé provide guest vocals on Lady Gaga's single "Telephone".[123][124] The song topped the U.S. Pop Songs chart, becoming the sixth number-one for both Beyoncé and Gaga, tying them with Mariah Carey for most number-ones since the Nielsen Top 40 airplay chart launched in 1992.[125] Beyoncé announced a hiatus from her music career in January 2010, heeding her mother's advice, "to live life, to be inspired by things again".[126][127] During the break, she and her father parted ways as business partners.[128][129] Beyoncé's musical break lasted nine months and saw her visit multiple European cities, the Great Wall of China, the Egyptian pyramids, Australia, English music festivals and various museums and ballet performances.[126][130] "Eat, Play, Love", a cover story written by Beyoncé for Essence that detailed her 2010 career break, won her a writing award from the New York Association of Black Journalists.[131] On June 26, 2011, she became the first solo female artist to headline the main Pyramid stage at the 2011 Glastonbury Festival in over twenty years.[132][133] The performance was lauded, with several publications noting an ascension in Knowles' capabilities as a live performer. Other publications discussed the polarized attitude of the UK music establishment in response to a Black woman performing on the same stages and to the same crowd sizes that were past reserved for legacy rock acts.[134][135] Her fourth studio album 4 was released two days prior in the U.S.[136] 4 sold 310,000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart, giving Beyoncé her fourth consecutive number-one album in the U.S. The album was preceded by two of its singles "Run the World (Girls)" and "Best Thing I Never Had".[72][123][137] The fourth single "Love on Top" spent seven consecutive weeks at number one on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, while peaking at number 20 on the Billboard Hot 100, the highest peak from the album.[138] In late 2011, she took the stage at New York's Roseland Ballroom for four nights of special performances:[139] the 4 Intimate Nights with Beyoncé concerts saw the performance of her 4 album to a standing room only.[139] On August 1, 2011, the album was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), having shipped 1 million copies to retail stores.[140] By December 2015, it reached sales of 1.5 million copies in the U.S.[141] The album reached one billion Spotify streams on February 5, 2018, making Beyoncé the first female artist to have three of their albums surpass one billion streams on the platform.[142] In June 2012, she performed for four nights at Revel Atlantic City's Ovation Hall to celebrate the resort's opening, her first performances since giving birth to her daughter.[143][144] 2013–2017: Super Bowl XLVII, Beyoncé, and Lemonade[] In January 2013, Beyoncé performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre-recorded track at President Obama's second inauguration in Washington, D.C.[145][146] The following month, Beyoncé performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show, held at the Mercedes-Benz Superdome in New Orleans.[147] The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268,000 tweets per minute.[148] Her feature-length documentary film, Life Is But a Dream, first aired on HBO on February 16, 2013.[149] The film was co-directed by Beyoncé herself.[150] Beyoncé embarked on The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour on April 15 in Belgrade, Serbia; the tour included 132 dates that ran through to March 2014. It became the most successful tour of her career and one of the most successful tours of all time.[151] In May, Beyoncé's cover of Amy Winehouse's "Back to Black" with André 3000 on The Great Gatsby soundtrack was released.[152] Beyoncé voiced Queen Tara in the 3D CGI animated film, Epic, released by 20th Century Fox on May 24,[153] and recorded an original song for the film, "Rise Up", co-written with Sia.[154] On December 13, 2013, Beyoncé unexpectedly released her eponymous fifth studio album on the iTunes Store without any prior announcement or promotion. The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart, giving Beyoncé her fifth consecutive number-one album in the U.S.[155] This made her the first woman in the chart's history to have her first five studio albums debut at number one.[156] Beyoncé received critical acclaim[157] and commercial success, selling one million digital copies worldwide in six days;[158] Musically an electro-R&B album, it concerns darker themes previously unexplored in her work, such as "bulimia, postnatal depression [and] the fears and insecurities of marriage and motherhood".[159] The single "Drunk in Love", featuring Jay-Z, peaked at number two on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.[160] According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), Beyoncé sold 2.3 million units worldwide, becoming the tenth best-selling album of 2013.[161] The album also went on to become the twentieth best-selling album of 2014.[162] As of November 2014[update], Beyoncé has sold over 5 million copies worldwide and has generated over 1 billion streams, as of March 2015[update].[163] At the 57th Annual Grammy Awards in February 2015, Beyoncé was nominated for six awards, ultimately winning three: Best R&B Performance and Best R&B Song for "Drunk in Love", and Best Surround Sound Album for Beyoncé.[164][165] In April 2014, Beyoncé and Jay-Z officially announced their On the Run Tour. It served as the couple's first co-headlining stadium tour together.[166] On August 24, 2014, she received the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards. Beyoncé also won home three competitive awards: Best Video with a Social Message and Best Cinematography for "Pretty Hurts", as well as best collaboration for "Drunk in Love".[167] In November, Forbes reported that Beyoncé was the top-earning woman in music for the second year in a row – earning $115 million in the year, more than double her earnings in 2013.[168] Beyoncé released "Formation" in on February 6, 2016, and performed it live for the first time during the NFL Super Bowl 50 halftime show. The appearance was considered controversial as it appeared to reference the 50th anniversary of the Black Panther Party and the NFL forbids political statements in its performances.[169][170][171] Immediately following the performance, Beyoncé announced The Formation World Tour, which highlighted stops in both North America and Europe.[172][173] It ended on October 7, with Beyoncé bringing out her husband Jay-Z, Kendrick Lamar, and Serena Williams for the last show.[174] The tour went on to win Tour of the Year at the 44th American Music Awards.[175] In April 2016, Beyoncé released a teaser clip for a project called Lemonade. A one-hour film which aired on HBO on April 23, a corresponding album with the same title was released on the same day exclusively on Tidal.[176] Lemonade debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200, making Beyoncé the first act in Billboard history to have their first six studio albums debut atop the chart; she broke a record previously tied with DMX in 2013.[177] With all 12 tracks of Lemonade debuting on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, Beyoncé also became the first female act to chart 12 or more songs at the same time.[178] Lemonade was streamed 115 million times through Tidal, setting a record for the most-streamed album in a single week by a female artist in history.[179] It was 2016's third highest-selling album in the U.S. with 1.554 million copies sold in that time period within the country[180] as well as the best-selling album worldwide with global sales of 2.5 million throughout the year.[181] Lemonade became the most critically acclaimed work of her career.[182] Several music publications included the album among the best of 2016, including Rolling Stone, which listed Lemonade at number one.[183] The album's visuals were nominated in 11 categories at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards, the most ever received by Beyoncé in a single year, and went on to win 8 awards, including Video of the Year for "Formation".[184][185] The eight wins made Beyoncé the most-awarded artist in the history of the VMAs (24), surpassing Madonna (20).[186] Beyoncé occupied the sixth place for Time magazine's 2016 Person of the Year.[187] In January 2017, it was announced that Beyoncé would headline the Coachella Music and Arts Festival. This would have made Beyoncé only the second female headliner of the festival since it was founded in 1999.[188] It was later announced on February 23, 2017, that Beyoncé would no longer be able to perform at the festival due to doctor's concerns regarding her pregnancy. The festival owners announced that she would instead headline the 2018 festival.[189] Upon the announcement of Beyoncé's departure from the festival lineup, ticket prices dropped by 12%.[190] At the 59th Grammy Awards in February 2017, Lemonade led the nominations with nine, including Album, Record, and Song of the Year for Lemonade and "Formation" respectively.[191] and ultimately won two, Best Urban Contemporary Album for Lemonade and Best Music Video for "Formation".[192] In September 2017, Beyoncé collaborated with J Balvin and Willy William, to release a remix of the song "Mi Gente". Beyoncé donated all proceeds from the song to hurricane charities for those affected by Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in Texas, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and other Caribbean Islands.[193] On November 10, Eminem released "Walk on Water" featuring Beyoncé as the lead single from his album Revival. On November 30, Ed Sheeran announced that Beyoncé would feature on the remix to his song "Perfect".[194] "Perfect Duet" was released on December 1, 2017. The song reached number-one in the United States, becoming Beyoncé's sixth song of her solo career to do so.[195] 2018–2021: Everything Is Love and The Lion King[] On January 4, 2018, the music video of Beyoncé and Jay-Z's 4:44 collaboration, "Family Feud" was released.[196] It was directed by Ava DuVernay. On March 1, 2018, DJ Khaled released "Top Off" as the first single from his forthcoming album Father of Asahd featuring Beyoncé, husband Jay-Z, and Future.[197] On March 5, 2018, a joint tour with Knowles's husband Jay-Z, was leaked on Facebook.[198] Information about the tour was later taken down. The couple announced the joint tour officially as On the Run II Tour on March 12[199] and simultaneously released a trailer for the tour on YouTube.[200] On April 14, 2018, Beyoncé played the first of two weekends as the headlining act of the Coachella Music Festival. Her performance of April 14, attended by 125,000 festival-goers, was immediately praised, with multiple media outlets describing it as historic. The performance became the most-tweeted-about performance of weekend one, as well as the most-watched live Coachella performance and the most-watched live performance on YouTube of all time. The show paid tribute to black culture, specifically historically black colleges and universities and featured a live band with over 100 dancers. Destiny's Child also reunited during the show.[201][202] On June 6, 2018, Beyoncé and husband Jay-Z kicked-off the On the Run II Tour in Cardiff, United Kingdom. Ten days later, at their final London performance, the pair unveiled Everything Is Love, their joint studio album, credited under the name The Carters, and initially available exclusively on Tidal. The pair also released the video for the album's lead single, "Apeshit", on Beyoncé's official YouTube channel.[203][204] Everything Is Love received generally positive reviews,[205] and debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200, with 123,000 album-equivalent units, of which 70,000 were pure album sales.[206] On December 2, 2018, Beyoncé alongside Jay-Z headlined the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 which was held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg, South Africa.[207] Their 2-hour performance had concepts similar to the On the Run II Tour and Beyoncé was praised for her outfits, which paid tribute to Africa's diversity.[208] Homecoming: A Film by Beyoncé, a documentary and concert film focusing on Beyoncé's historic 2018 Coachella performances, was released by Netflix on April 17, 2019.[209][210] The film was accompanied by the surprise live album Homecoming: The Live Album.[211] It was later reported that Beyoncé and Netflix had signed a $60 million deal to produce three different projects, one of which is Homecoming.[212] Homecoming: A Film by Beyoncé received six nominations at the 71st Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards.[213] Beyoncé starred as the voice of Nala in the remake The Lion King, which was released in July 2019.[214] Beyoncé is featured on the film's soundtrack, released on July 11, 2019, with a remake of the song "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" alongside Donald Glover, Billy Eichner and Seth Rogen, which was originally composed by Elton John.[215] An original song from the film by Beyoncé, "Spirit", was released as the lead single from both the soundtrack and The Lion King: The Gift – a companion album released alongside the film, produced and curated by Beyoncé.[216][217] Beyoncé called The Lion King: The Gift a "sonic cinema". She stated that the album is influenced by everything from R&B, pop, hip hop, gqom and Afro Beat.[216][218] The songs were produced by African producers, which Beyoncé said was because "authenticity and heart were important to [her]", since the film is set in Africa.[216] In September of the same year, a documentary chronicling the development, production and early music video filming of The Lion King: The Gift entitled "Beyoncé Presents: Making The Gift" was aired on ABC.[219] In March 2020, a photograph Beyoncé captured of her swimming pool was used as the album cover for rapper Jay Electronica's highly anticipated debut album A Written Testimony.[220] In April of the same year, Beyoncé was featured on the remix of Megan Thee Stallion's song "Savage", marking her first music release for the year.[221] The song peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100, marking Beyoncé's eleventh song to do so across all acts.[222] On June 19, 2020, Beyoncé released the nonprofit charity single "Black Parade".[223] On June 23, she followed up the release of its studio version with an a cappella version exclusively on Tidal.[224] Black Is King, a visual album based on the music of The Lion King: The Gift, premiered globally on Disney+ on July 31, 2020. Produced by Disney and Parkwood Entertainment, the film was written, directed and executively produced by Beyoncé. The film was described by Disney as "a celebratory memoir for the world on the Black experience".[225] Beyoncé received the most nominations (9) at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards and the most awards (4), which made her the most-awarded singer, most-awarded female artist, and second-most-awarded artist in Grammy history.[226] In 2021, Beyoncé wrote and recorded a song titled "Be Alive" for the biographical drama film King Richard.[227] She received her first Academy Award nomination for Best Original Song at the 94th Academy Awards for the song, alongside co-writer Dixson.[228] 2022–present: Three-act project[] On March 27, 2022, Beyoncé performed "Be Alive" at the 94th Academy Awards. Choreographed by friend and past collaborator Fatima Robinson, Beyoncé was applauded for choosing to perform on the Compton tennis courts: Venus and Serena Williams practiced on in their childhood instead of at the venue.[229][230] On June 9, 2022, Beyoncé removed her profile pictures across various social media platforms, causing speculation that she would be releasing new music.[231] Days later, Beyoncé caused further speculation via her nonprofit BeyGood's Twitter account hinting at her upcoming seventh studio album.[232] On June 15, 2022, Beyoncé officially announced her seventh studio album, titled Renaissance.[233] The lead single of Renaissance, "Break My Soul", was released on June 20, 2022.[234] The album was released on July 29, 2022.[235][236] "Break My Soul" became Beyoncé's 20th top ten single on the Billboard Hot 100, which made her join Paul McCartney and Michael Jackson as the only artists in Hot 100 history to achieve at least twenty top tens as a solo artist and ten as a member of a group.[10] As Renaissance was released, Beyoncé announced that the album was the first installment of a trilogy she conceived and recorded over three years during the COVID-19 pandemic. A time she found to be her "most creative [period]."[237][233] The three recorded projects are designated into acts under Roman numerals.[238] Upon release, Renaissance received universal acclaim from critics.[239] Renaissance debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 chart, making her the first female artist to have her first seven studio albums debut at number one in the United States.[240] "Break My Soul" concurrently rose to number-one on the Billboard Hot 100, becoming the twelfth song to do so across her career discography.[241] The song "Heated," which was co-written with Canadian rapper Drake, originally included the lyrics "Spazzin' on that ass / spazz on that ass". Critics, including a number of disability charities and activists, argued that the word "spaz" represented a derogatory term for spastic diplegia, a form of cerebral palsy. In response, in August 2022, a representative for Beyoncé issued a statement and explained that "The word, not used intentionally in a harmful way, will be replaced".[242][243] On January 21, 2023, Beyoncé performed in Dubai at a private show.[244] The performance, which was her first full concert in more than four years, was delivered to an audience of influencers and journalists.[245] Beyoncé was reportedly paid $24 million to perform.[246] Beyoncé faced criticism for her decision to perform in the United Arab Emirates where homosexuality is illegal.[246][245][247] On February 1, Beyoncé announced the Renaissance World Tour with dates in North America and Europe,[248] becoming for a short-span, the highest-grossing tour by a female artist.[249] On July 28, Beyoncé appeared on "Delresto (Echoes)", the second single from rapper Travis Scott's album Utopia, eventually becoming her 100th career appearance on the Billboard Hot 100 chart (encompassing Destiny's Child, her solo career, and musical duo The Carters).[250] On November 30, 2023, Beyoncé released documentary concert film Renaissance: A Film by Beyoncé written, directed, and produced by her in collaboration with film distributor AMC Theatres. The film chronicles the development and execution of Beyoncé's Renaissance World Tour, and contained new song "My House" in the end credits. In February 2024, Beyoncé launched her hair care brand Cécred.[251] On February 11, 2024, immediately following a partner commercial with Verizon for the Super Bowl LVIII, she announced the second installment of her trilogy project and released its first two songs, "Texas Hold 'Em" and "16 Carriages".[252] "Texas Hold 'Em" became her highest chart debut in her career, her ninth solo number-one and her thirteenth across all credits on the Billboard Hot 100. On March 12, 2024, she announced the album's title, Cowboy Carter.[253][254] A country and gospel-tinged record, it was released on March 29 to universal acclaim from critics, and includes collaborations with artists including Tanner Adell and her daughter Rumi Carter, Miley Cyrus, Tiera Kennedy, Willie Jones, Post Malone, Linda Martell, Willie Nelson, Shaboozey, Brittney Spencer, Dolly Parton, and Reyna Roberts.[255] In July 2024, NBC released two promotional commercials featuring Beyoncé for their coverage of the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris, France.[256] Set to Cowboy Carter songs "Ya Ya" and "Just For Fun", she introduced the entire USA Olympic Team and Gold-medal gymnast Simone Biles, respectively.[257][258] On August 20, Beyoncé announced SirDavis, a whiskey in collaboration with Moët Hennessy developed for years prior and co-founded with master distiller Dr. Bill Lumsden.[259] Artistry[] Voice and musical style[] Template:Quote box Critics have described Beyoncé's voice as being mezzo-soprano.[260][261] Jody Rosen highlights her tone and timbre as particularly distinctive, describing her voice as "one of the most compelling instruments in popular music".[262] Her vocal abilities mean she is identified as the centerpiece of Destiny's Child.[263] Jon Pareles of The New York Times commented that her voice is "velvety yet tart, with an insistent flutter and reserves of soul belting".[264] Rosen notes that the hip hop era highly influenced Beyoncé's unique rhythmic vocal style, but also finds her quite traditionalist in her use of balladry, gospel and falsetto.[262] Other critics praise her range and power, with Chris Richards of The Washington Post saying she was "capable of punctuating any beat with goose-bump-inducing whispers or full-bore diva-roars."[265] On the 2023 Rolling Stone's list of the 200 Greatest Singers of all time, Beyoncé ranked at number 8, with the publication noting that "in [her] voice lies the entire history of Black music".[266] Beyoncé's music is generally R&B,[267][268] pop[267][269] and hip hop[270] but she also incorporates soul and funk into her songs. 4 demonstrated Beyoncé's exploration of 1990s-style R&B, as well as further use of soul and hip hop than compared to previous releases.[271] While she almost exclusively releases English songs, Beyoncé recorded several Spanish songs for Irreemplazable (re-recordings of songs from B'Day for a Spanish-language audience), and the re-release of B'Day. To record these, Beyoncé was coached phonetically by American record producer Rudy Perez.[272] Songwriting[] Beyoncé has received co-writing credits for most of her songs.[273] Her early songs with Destiny's Child were personally driven and female-empowerment themed compositions like "Independent Women" and "Survivor", but after the start of her relationship with Jay-Z, she transitioned to more man-tending anthems such as "Cater 2 U".[274] Beyoncé's songwriting process is also known for combining parts of different tracks, resulting in alteration of song structures. Sia, who co-wrote "Pretty Hurts", called Beyoncé "very Frankenstein when she comes to songs";[275] Diana Gordon, who co-wrote "Don't Hurt Yourself" called her a "scientist of songs";[276] Caroline Polachek who co-wrote "No Angel", called her a "genius writer and producer for this reason. She's so good at seeing connections."[277] In 2001, she became the first Black woman and second female lyricist to win the Pop Songwriter of the Year award at the ASCAP Pop Music Awards.[19][278] Beyoncé was the third woman to have writing credits on three number-one songs ("Irreplaceable", "Grillz" and "Check on It") in the same year, after Carole King in 1971 and Mariah Carey in 1991. She is tied with American lyricist Diane Warren at third with nine songwriting credits on number-one singles.[279] The latter wrote her song "I Was Here" for 4, which was motivated by the September 11 attacks.[280] In May 2011, Billboard magazine listed Beyoncé at number 17 on their list of the Top 20 Hot 100 Songwriters for having co-written eight singles that hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. She was one of only three women on that list, along with Alicia Keys and Taylor Swift.[281] Beyoncé has received criticism, including from journalists and musicians, for the extensive writing credits on her songs.[273] The controversy surrounding her songwriting credits began with interviews in which she attributed herself as the songwriter for songs in which she was a co-writer[282] or for which her contributions were marginal.[273] In a cover story for Vanity Fair in 2005, she claimed to have "written" several number-one songs for Destiny's Child, contrary to the credits, which list her as a co-writer among others.[282] During a 2007 interview with Barbara Walters, she claimed to have conceived the musical idea for the Destiny's Child song "Bootylicious",[283] which provoked the song's producer Rob Fusari to call her father and then-manager Mathew Knowles in protest over the claim. In 2010, Fusari told Billboard: "[Knowles] explained to me, in a nice way, he said, 'People don't want to hear about Rob Fusari, producer from Livingston, N.J. No offense, but that's not what sells records. What sells records is people believing that the artist is everything.Template:' "[284] However, in an interview for Entertainment Weekly in 2016, Fusari said Beyoncé "had the 'Bootylicious' concept in her head. That was totally her. She knew what she wanted to say. It was very urban pop angle that they were taking on the record."[285] Production[] I am really passionate about all of the steps [during] the production [...] I love to stack vocals, and I love to create my own little Oreo with arrangements, sometimes it can be thousands of vocals [and then] I go back and then kind of piece things together, because usually the songs are way too long [...] I go back and edit the structure of the song. [I] make sure that [...] every section has an intention, so that takes months. [...] I hear certain elements of things that go with things that are opposites. I am rarely happy with one track, it's usually four or five things put together that again don't really go together. I am so excited when I'm able to adjust the tempo and key and mute certain elements that don't complement and put opposites together. Sometimes it's just like the EQ of a synth or the warmth of a bass or the distortion of a bass that's on a different song and I can hear like, 'Ah! That's exactly what is missing to make the track full and complete!' — Beyoncé in pre-recorded audio speech at 'Club Renaissance' 2022 party.[286] Beyoncé's collaborators frequently mention her talent and involvement in the record production of her songs,[287][288] sometimes describing her as a genius in the skill.[289] She is known to have favorite saturation and distortion plug‑ins, intentionality about stereo imaging and concentration on individual elements of her songs as a "focal point" in production.[290] Influences[] Beyoncé names Michael Jackson as her major musical influence.[291][292] Aged five, Beyoncé attended her first ever concert where Jackson performed and she claims to have realized her purpose.[293] When she presented him with a tribute award at the World Music Awards in 2006, Beyoncé said, "if it wasn't for Michael Jackson, I would never ever have performed."[294] Beyoncé was heavily influenced by Tina Turner, and once said "Tina Turner is someone that I admire, because she made her strength feminine and sexy".[295][296] She admires Diana Ross as an "all-around entertainer",[297] and Whitney Houston, who she said "inspired me to get up there and do what she did."[298][299] Beyoncé cited Madonna as an influence "not only for her musical style, but also for her business sense",[300] saying that she wanted to "follow in the footsteps of Madonna and be a powerhouse and have my own empire."[301] She also credits Mariah Carey's singing and her song "Vision of Love" as influencing her to begin practicing vocal runs as a child.[302][303] Her other musical influences include Rachelle Ferrell,[304] Aaliyah,[305] Janet Jackson,[306][307] Prince,[308] Lauryn Hill,[297] Sade Adu,[309] Donna Summer,[310] Fairuz,[311][312] Mary J. Blige,[313] Selena,[314] Anita Baker, and Toni Braxton.[297] The feminism and female empowerment themes on Beyoncé's second solo album B'Day were inspired by her role in Dreamgirls[315] and by singer Josephine Baker.[316] Beyoncé paid homage to Baker by performing "Déjà Vu" at the 2006 Fashion Rocks concert wearing Baker's trademark mini-hula skirt embellished with fake bananas.[317] Beyoncé's third solo album, I Am... Sasha Fierce, was inspired by Jay-Z and especially by Etta James, whose "boldness" inspired Beyoncé to explore other musical genres and styles.[318] Her fourth solo album, 4, was inspired by Fela Kuti, 1990s R&B, Earth, Wind & Fire, DeBarge, Lionel Richie, Teena Marie, The Jackson 5, New Edition, Adele, Florence and the Machine, and Prince.[271] Beyoncé has stated that she is personally inspired by Michelle Obama (the 44th First Lady of the United States), saying "she proves you can do it all",[319] and has described Oprah Winfrey as "the definition of inspiration and a strong woman."[297] She has also discussed how Jay-Z is a continuing inspiration to her, both with what she describes as his lyrical genius and in the obstacles he has overcome in his life.[320] Beyoncé has expressed admiration for the artist Jean-Michel Basquiat, posting in a letter "what I find in the work of Jean-Michel Basquiat, I search for in every day in music ... he is lyrical and raw".[321][322] Beyoncé has also cited Cher as a fashion inspiration.[323] Videography and stage[] In 2006, Beyoncé introduced her all-female tour band Suga Mama (also the name of a song on B'Day) which includes bassists, drummers, guitarists, horn players, keyboardists and percussionists.[324] Her background singers, The Mamas, consist of Montina Cooper-Donnell, Crystal Collins and Tiffany Moniqué Riddick. They made their debut appearance at the 2006 BET Awards and re-appeared in the music videos for "Irreplaceable" and "Green Light".[272] The band have supported Beyoncé in most subsequent live performances, including her 2007 concert tour The Beyoncé Experience, I Am... Tour (2009–2010), The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour (2013–2014) and The Formation World Tour (2016). Beyoncé has received praise for her stage presence and voice during live performances. According to Barbara Ellen of The Guardian, Beyoncé is the most in-charge female artist she's seen onstage.[325] Similarly, Alice Jones of The Independent wrote she "takes her role as entertainer so seriously she's almost too good."[326] The ex-President of Def Jam L.A. Reid has described Beyoncé as the greatest entertainer alive.[327] Jim Farber of the Daily News and Stephanie Classen of The StarPhoenix both praised her strong voice and her stage presence.[328][329] Template:Quote box Beyoncé's stage outfits have been met with criticism from many countries, such as Malaysia, where she has postponed or cancelled performances due to the country's strict laws banning revealing costumes.[330] Beyoncé has worked with numerous directors for her music videos throughout her career, including Melina Matsoukas, Jonas Åkerlund, and Jake Nava. Bill Condon, director of Beauty and the Beast, stated that the Lemonade visuals in particular served as inspiration for his film, commenting, "You look at Beyoncé's brilliant movie Lemonade, this genre is taking on so many different forms ... I do think that this very old-school break-out-into-song traditional musical is something that people understand again and really want."[331] Alter ego[] Described as being "sexy, seductive and provocative" when performing on stage, Beyoncé has said that she originally created the alter ego "Sasha Fierce" to keep that stage persona separate from who she really is. She described Sasha Fierce as being "too aggressive, too strong, too sassy [and] too sexy", stating, "I'm not like her in real life at all."[332] Sasha was conceived during the making of "Crazy in Love", and Beyoncé introduced her with the release of her 2008 album, I Am... Sasha Fierce. In February 2010, she announced in an interview with Allure magazine that she was comfortable enough with herself to no longer need Sasha Fierce.[333] However, Beyoncé announced in May 2012 that she would bring her back for her Revel Presents: Beyoncé Live shows later that month.[334] Public image[] Beyoncé has been described as having sex appeal, with music journalist Touré writing that since the release of Dangerously in Love, she has "become a crossover sex symbol".[335] When off stage, Beyoncé says that while she likes to dress sexily, her onstage dress "is absolutely for the stage".[336] Due to her curves and the term's catchiness, in the 2000s, the media often used the term "bootylicious" (a portmanteau of the words "booty" and "delicious") to describe Beyoncé,[337][338] the term popularized by the single of the same name by her group Destiny's Child. In 2006, it was added to the Oxford English Dictionary.[339] In September 2010, Beyoncé made her runway modelling debut at Tom Ford's Spring/Summer 2011 fashion show.[340] She was named the "World's Most Beautiful Woman" by People[341] and the "Hottest Female Singer of All Time" by Complex in 2012.[342] In January 2013, GQ placed her on its cover, featuring her atop its "100 Sexiest Women of the 21st Century" list.[343][344] VH1 listed her at number 1 on its 100 Sexiest Artists list.[345] Several wax figures of Beyoncé are found at Madame Tussauds Wax Museums in major cities around the world, including New York City,[346] Berlin,[347] Singapore,[348] Tokyo,[349] London,[350] Washington, D.C.,[351] Amsterdam,[352][353] Bangkok,[354] Hollywood[355] Sydney,[356] Istanbul,[357] Blackpool,[358] Las Vegas,[359] Orlando,[360] San Francisco,[361] Nashville,[362] Budapest,[363] Vienna,[364] Shanghai[365] and Delhi.[366] The latest was unveiled by Madame Tussauds New York on July 27, 2023, showcasing Beyoncé's look from her historic 2018 Coachella performance. Debuted at Edge, New York City's highest outdoor sky deck, the figure features Beyoncé in a Balmain bodysuit and Nefertiti-inspired headpiece, commemorating her as the first Black woman to headline the festival. This addition involved extensive collaboration with the original designers, requiring six months to capture Beyoncé's iconic style precisely.[367][368] According to Italian fashion designer Roberto Cavalli, Beyoncé uses different fashion styles to work with her music while performing.[369] Her mother co-wrote a book, published in 2002, titled Destiny's Style,[370] an account of how fashion affected the trio's success.[371] The B'Day Anthology Video Album showed many instances of fashion-oriented footage, depicting classic to contemporary wardrobe styles.[372] In 2007, Beyoncé was featured on the cover of the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue, becoming the second African American woman after model and television personality Tyra Banks,[373] and People magazine recognized Beyoncé as the best-dressed celebrity.[374] Beyoncé has been named "Queen Bey" from publications over the years. The term is a reference to the common phrase "queen bee", a term used for the leader of a group of females. The nickname also refers to the Queen bee of a beehive, with her fan base being named "BeyHive". BeyHive was previously titled "The Beyontourage", (a portmanteau of Beyoncé and entourage), but was changed after online petitions on Twitter and online news reports during competitions.[375] In 2006, the animal rights organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), criticized Beyoncé for wearing and using fur in her clothing line House of Deréon.[376] Emmett Price, a professor of music at Northeastern University, wrote in 2007 that he thinks race plays a role in many criticisms of Beyoncé's image, saying white celebrities who dress similarly do not attract as many comments.[377] In 2008, the French personal care company L'Oréal was accused of whitening her skin in their Feria hair color advertisements, responding that "it is categorically untrue",[378][379] and in 2013, Beyoncé herself criticized H&M for their proposed "retouching" of promotional images of her, and according to Vogue requested that only "natural pictures be used".[380] Beyoncé has been a vocal advocate for the Black Lives Matter movement. The release of "Formation" on February 6, 2016, saw her celebrate her Sub-Saharan Black African ancestry, with the song's music video featuring pro-black imagery and a shot of wall graffiti that says "Stop shooting us". The day after the song's release, she performed it at the 2016 Super Bowl halftime show with back up dancers dressed to represent the Black Panther Party. This incited criticism from conservative politicians and police officers, with some police boycotting Beyoncé's then upcoming Formation World Tour.[381] Beyoncé responded to the backlash by releasing tour merchandise that said "Boycott Beyoncé",[382][383][384] and later clarified her sentiment, saying: "Anyone who perceives my message as anti-police is completely mistaken. I have so much admiration and respect for officers and the families of officers who sacrifice themselves to keep us safe," Beyoncé said. "But let's be clear: I am against police brutality and injustice. Those are two separate things."[385] Personal life[] Marriage and children[] In 2002, Beyoncé and Jay-Z collaborated on the song "'03 Bonnie & Clyde",[386] which appeared on his seventh album The Blueprint 2: The Gift & The Curse (2002).[387] Beyoncé appeared as Jay-Z's girlfriend in the music video for the song, fueling speculation about their relationship.[388] On April 4, 2008, Beyoncé and Jay-Z married without publicity.[389] As of April 2014[update], the couple had sold a combined 300 million records together.[166] They are known for their private relationship, although they have appeared to become more relaxed since 2013.[390] Both have acknowledged difficulty that arose in their marriage after Jay-Z had an affair.[391][392] Beyoncé miscarried around 2010 or 2011, describing it as "the saddest thing" she had ever endured.[393] She returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss. In April 2011, Beyoncé and Jay-Z traveled to Paris to shoot the album cover for 4, and she unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris.[394] In August, the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards, at which Beyoncé performed "Love On Top" and ended the performance by revealing she was pregnant.[395] Her appearance helped that year's MTV Video Music Awards become the most-watched broadcast in MTV history, pulling in 12.4 million viewers;[396] the announcement was listed in Guinness World Records for "most tweets per second recorded for a single event" on Twitter,[397] receiving 8,868 tweets per second[398] and "Beyonce pregnant" was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29, 2011.[399] On January 7, 2012, Beyoncé gave birth to a daughter, Blue Ivy, at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.[400] Following the release of Lemonade, which included the single "Sorry", in 2016, speculations arose about Jay-Z's alleged infidelity with a mistress referred to as "Becky". Jon Pareles in The New York Times pointed out that many of the accusations were "aimed specifically and recognizably" at him.[401] Similarly, Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone noted the lines "Suck on my balls, I've had enough" were an "unmistakable hint" that the lyrics revolve around Jay-Z.[402] On February 1, 2017, she revealed on her Instagram account that she was expecting twins. Her announcement gained over 6.3 million likes within eight hours, breaking the world record for the most liked image on the website at the time.[403] On July 13, 2017, Beyoncé uploaded the first image of herself and the twins onto her Instagram account, confirming their birth date as a month prior, on June 13, 2017,[404] with the post becoming the second most liked on Instagram, behind her own pregnancy announcement.[405] The twins, a daughter named Rumi and a son named Sir, were born at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in California via caesarean section. She wrote of her pregnancy and its aftermath in the September 2018 issue of Vogue, in which she had full control of the cover, shot at Hammerwood Park by photographer Tyler Mitchell.[406][407] Politics[] Beyoncé performed "America the Beautiful" at President Barack Obama's 2009 presidential inauguration, as well as "At Last" during the first inaugural dance at the Neighborhood Ball two days later.[408] The couple held a fundraiser at Jay-Z's 40/40 Club in Manhattan for President Obama's 2012 presidential campaign[409] which raised $4 million.[410] Beyoncé voted for Obama in the 2012 presidential election.[411] She performed the American national anthem "The Star-Spangled Banner" at his second inauguration in January 2013.[145] The Washington Post reported in May 2015, that Beyoncé attended a major celebrity fundraiser for 2016 presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.[412] She also headlined for Clinton in a concert held the weekend before Election Day the next year. In this performance, Beyoncé and her entourage of backup dancers wore pantsuits; a clear allusion to Clinton's frequent dress-of-choice. The backup dancers also wore "I'm with her" tee shirts, the campaign slogan for Clinton. In a brief speech at this performance Beyoncé said, "I want my daughter to grow up seeing a woman lead our country and knowing that her possibilities are limitless."[413] She endorsed the bid of Beto O'Rourke during the 2018 United States Senate election in Texas.[414] In July 2024, Beyoncé gave Vice President Kamala Harris permission to use Lemonade promotional single "Freedom" as the official song for her 2024 presidential campaign.[415][416] Harris subsequently launched a digital ad in support of her candidacy featuring the song.[417] Activism[] In 2013, Beyoncé stated in an interview in Vogue that she considered herself to be "a modern-day feminist".[418] She would later align herself more publicly with the movement, sampling "We should all be feminists", a speech delivered by Nigerian author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie at a TEDx talk in April 2013, in her song "Flawless", released later that year.[419] The next year she performed live at the MTV Video Awards in front a giant backdrop reading "Feminist".[420] Her self-identification incited a circulation of opinions and debate about whether her feminism is aligned with older, more established feminist ideals. Annie Lennox, celebrated artist and feminist advocate, referred to Beyoncé's use of her word feminist as 'feminist lite'.[421] Adichie responded with "her type of feminism is not mine, as it is the kind that, at the same time, gives quite a lot of space to the necessity of men."[422] Adichie expands upon what "feminist lite" means to her, referring that "more troubling is the idea, in Feminism Lite, that men are naturally superior but should be expected to 'treat women well'" and "we judge powerful women more harshly than we judge powerful men. And Feminism Lite enables this."[423] Beyoncé responded about her intent by utilizing the definition of feminist with her platform was to "give clarity to the true meaning" behind it. She says to understand what being a feminist is, "it's very simple. It's someone who believes in equal rights for men and women." She advocated to provide equal opportunities for young boys and girls, men and women must begin to understand the double standards that remain persistent in our societies and the issue must be illuminated in effort to start making changes.[424] She has also contributed to the Ban Bossy campaign, which uses TV and social media to encourage leadership in girls.[425] Following Beyoncé's public identification as a feminist, the sexualized nature of her performances and the fact that she championed her marriage was questioned.[426] In December 2012, Beyoncé along with a variety of other celebrities teamed up and produced a video campaign for "Demand A Plan", a bipartisan effort by a group of 950 U.S. mayors and others[427] designed to influence the federal government into rethinking its gun control laws, following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting.[428] Beyoncé publicly endorsed same-sex marriage on March 26, 2013, after the Supreme Court debate on California's Proposition 8.[429] She spoke against North Carolina's Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act, a bill passed (and later repealed) that discriminated against the LGBT community in public places in a statement during her concert in Raleigh as part of the Formation World Tour in 2016.[430] She has condemned police brutality against black Americans. She and Jay-Z attended a rally in 2013 in response to the acquittal of George Zimmerman for the killing of Trayvon Martin.[431] The film for her sixth album Lemonade included the mothers of Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown and Eric Garner, holding pictures of their sons in the video for "Freedom".[432] In a 2016 interview with Elle, Beyoncé responded to the controversy surrounding her song "Formation" which was perceived to be critical of the police. She clarified, "I am against police brutality and injustice. Those are two separate things. If celebrating my roots and culture during Black History Month made anyone uncomfortable, those feelings were there long before a video and long before me".[433] In February 2017, Beyoncé spoke out against the withdrawal of protections for transgender students in public schools by Donald Trump's presidential administration. Posting a link to the 100 Days of Kindness campaign on her Facebook page, Beyoncé voiced her support for transgender youth and joined a roster of celebrities who spoke out against Trump's decision.[434] Interests[] Beyoncé has been documented pursuing many passions, sometimes being described as a renaissance woman.[435][436] Some of these include canvas painting,[437] video editing,[438] poetry,[439] scriptwriting,[440] lighting design,[441] photography,[220] cultural historiography[442] and beekeeping (with around 80,000 bees).[443] I started painting portraits of women [in 2002], while filming Austin Powers [...] I got hooked and wouldn't sleep. I made this special room with saris and pillows. I would light candles, play Miles Davis and Björk, and paint all night. It was very therapeutic. Whenever I finish one of my paintings, I try to figure out what it represents in my life. I'll be like, 'It's dark behind her and light in front of her, so a dark period must be coming to an end. Something light and beautiful is going to happen.' — Beyoncé speaking to Inside Entertainment in February 2004.[437] Wealth[] Forbes magazine began reporting on Beyoncé's earnings in 2008, calculating that the $80 million earned between June 2007 to June 2008, for her music, tour, films and clothing line made her the world's best-paid music personality at the time, above Madonna and Celine Dion.[444][445] It placed her fourth on the Celebrity 100 list in 2009[446] and ninth on the "Most Powerful Women in the World" list in 2010.[447] The following year, the magazine placed her eighth on the "Best-Paid Celebrities Under 30" list, having earned $35 million in the past year for her clothing line and endorsement deals. In 2012, Forbes placed Beyoncé at number 16 on the Celebrity 100 list, twelve places lower than three years ago yet still having earned $40 million in the past year for her album 4, clothing line and endorsement deals.[448][449] In 2012, Beyoncé and Jay-Z placed at number one on the "World's Highest-Paid Celebrity Couples", for collectively earning $78 million.[450] The couple made it into the previous year's Guinness World Records as the "highest-earning power couple" for collectively earning $122 million in 2009.[451] For the years 2009 to 2011, Beyoncé earned an average of $70 million per year, and earned $40 million in 2012.[452] In 2013, Beyoncé's endorsements of Pepsi and H&M made her and Jay-Z the world's first billion-dollar couple in the music industry.[453] That year, Beyoncé was published as the fourth-most-powerful celebrity in the Forbes rankings.[454] In June 2014, Beyoncé ranked at number one on the Forbes Celebrity 100 list, earning an estimated $115 million throughout June 2013 – June 2014. This in turn was the first time she had topped the Celebrity 100 list as well as being her highest yearly earnings to date.[455] In 2016, Beyoncé ranked at number 34 on the Celebrity 100 list with earnings of $54 million. She and Jay-Z also topped the highest-paid celebrity couple list, with combined earnings of $107.5 million.[456] Beyoncé is one of the wealthiest musical artists. As of 2018[update], Forbes calculated her net worth to be $355 million, and in June of the same year, ranked her as the 35th-highest-earning celebrity, with annual earnings of $60 million. This tied Beyoncé with Madonna as the only two female artists to earn more than $100 million within a single year twice.[457][458] As a couple, Beyoncé and Jay-Z have a combined net worth of $1.16 billion.[459] In July 2017, Billboard announced that Beyoncé was the highest-paid musician of 2016, with an estimated total of $62.1 million.[460] By December 2023, Forbes estimated Beyoncé's net worth to be $800 million.[461] In 2023, the couple bought a house in Malibu, California, designed by the architect Tadao Ando, for $200 million. It established a record for the most expensive residence sold in the state of California.[462] Legacy[] - Main article: Cultural impact of Beyoncé Beyoncé's success has led to her becoming a cultural icon and earning her the nickname "Queen Bey".[463] Constance Grady wrote for Vox, "The transformation of Beyoncé from well-liked pop star to cultural icon came in three phases, punctuated by the self-titled Beyoncé album of 2013, 2016's Lemonade, and 2018's Homecoming concert at Coachella."[464] In The New Yorker, music critic Jody Rosen described Beyoncé as "the most important and compelling popular musician of the twenty-first century ... the result, the logical end point, of a century-plus of pop."[465] She topped NPR list of the "21st Century's Most Influential Women Musicians".[466] James Clear, in his book Atomic Habits (2018), draws a parallel between Beyoncé's success and the dramatic transformations in modern society: "In the last one hundred years, we have seen the rise of the car, the airplane, the television, the personal computer, the internet, the smartphone, and Beyoncé."[467] The Observer named her Artist of the Decade (2000s) in 2009.[468] Writing for Entertainment Weekly, Alex Suskind opined that Beyoncé was the decade's (2010s) defining pop star, stating "no one dominated music in the 2010s like Queen Bey", explaining that her "songs, album rollouts, stage presence, social justice initiatives, and disruptive public relations strategy have influenced the way we've viewed music since 2010."[469] Based on Billboard rankings of chart success and sales, Beyonce was ranked 9th on the Top R&B and Hip Hop artists of the 2010s decade chart, behind the likes of Drake, Rihanna, Chris Brown, Nicki Minaj, Post Malone, The Weeknd, Kendrick Lamar and Lil Wayne in ranks 1 through 8, respectively.[470] British publication NME also shared similar thoughts on her impact in the 2010s, including Beyoncé on their list of the "10 Artists Who Defined The Decade".[471] In 2018, Rolling Stone included her on its Millennial 100 list.[472] Music critics have often credited Beyoncé with the invention of the staccato rap-singing style that has since dominated pop, R&B, and rap music. Lakin Starling of The Fader wrote that Beyoncé's innovative implementation of the delivery style on Destiny's Child's 1999 album The Writing's on the Wall invented a new form of R&B.[473] The staccato rap-singing style continued to be used in the music industry in the late 2010s and early 2020s; Aaron Williams of Uproxx described Beyoncé as the "primary pioneer" of the rapping style that dominates the music industry today, with many rappers implementing Beyoncé's rap-singing.[474] Michael Eric Dyson agrees, saying in 2019 that Beyoncé "changed the whole genre" and has become the "godmother" of mumble rappers, who use the staccato rap-singing cadence. Dyson added: "She doesn't get credit for the remarkable way in which she changed the musical vocabulary of contemporary art."[475] Beyoncé has been credited with reviving the album as an art form in an era dominated by singles and streaming. This started with her 2011 album 4; while mainstream R&B artists were forgoing albums-led R&B in favor of singles-led EDM, Beyoncé aimed to place the focus back on albums as an art form and re-establish R&B as a mainstream concern.[476] This remained a focus of Beyoncé's, and in 2013, she made her eponymous album only available to purchase as a full album on iTunes, rather than being able to purchase individual tracks or consume the album via streaming. Kaitlin Menza of Marie Claire wrote that this made listeners "experience the album as one whole sonic experience, the way people used to, noting the musical and lyrical themes".[477] Jamieson Cox for The Verge described how Beyoncé's 2013 album initiated a gradual trend of albums becoming more cohesive and self-referential, and this phenomenon reached its endpoint with Lemonade, which set "a new standard for pop storytelling at the highest possible scale".[478] Megan Carpentier of The Guardian wrote that with Lemonade, Beyoncé has "almost revived the album format" by releasing an album that can only be listened to in its entirety.[479] Myf Warhurst on Double J's "Lunch With Myf" explained that while most artists' albums consist of a few singles plus filler songs, Beyoncé "brought the album back", changing the art form of the album "to a narrative with an arc and a story and you have to listen to the entire thing to get the concept".[480] She is known for coining popular phrases such as "put a ring on it", a euphemism for marriage proposal, "I woke up like this", which started a trend of posting morning selfies with the hashtag #iwokeuplikethis, and "boy, bye", which was used as part of the Democratic National Committee's campaign for the 2020 election.[481][482] Similarly, she also came up with the phrase "visual album" following the release of her fifth studio album, which had a video for every song. This has been recreated by many other artists since, such as Frank Ocean and Melanie Martinez.[483] The album also popularized surprise releases, with many artists releasing songs, videos or albums with no prior announcement, such as Taylor Swift, Nicki Minaj, Eminem, Frank Ocean, Jay-Z and Drake.[484] In January 2012, research scientist Bryan Lessard named Scaptia beyonceae, a species of horse-fly found in Northern Queensland, Australia after Beyoncé due to the fly's unique golden hairs on its abdomen.[485] Achievements[] Beyoncé has received numerous awards and is the most-awarded female artist of all time.[486] Having sold over 200 million records worldwide (a further 60 million additionally with Destiny's Child), Beyoncé is one of the best-selling music artists of all time.[487] The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) listed Beyoncé as the top certified artist of the 2000s decade, with a total of 64 certifications.[488][489] In 2009, Billboard named her the Top Female Artist and Top Radio Songs Artist of the Decade.[490][491][492] In 2010, Billboard named her in their Top 50 R&B/Hip-Hop Artists of the Past 25 Years list at number 15.[493] In 2012, VH1 ranked her third on their list of the "100 Greatest Women in Music", behind Mariah Carey and Madonna.[494] In 2002, she received Songwriter of the Year from American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers becoming the First African American woman to win the award. In 2004 and 2019, she received NAACP Image Award for Entertainer of the Year and the Soul Train Music Award for Sammy Davis Jr. – Entertainer of the Year. In 2005, she also received APEX Award at the Trumpet Award honoring the achievements of Black African Americans. In 2007, Beyoncé received the International Artist of Excellence award by the American Music Awards. She also received Honorary Otto at the Bravo Otto. The following year, she received the Legend Award for Outstanding Contribution to the Arts at the World Music Awards[495] and Career Achievement Award at the LOS40 Music Awards. In 2010, she received the Award of Honor for Artist of the Decade at the NRJ Music Award.[496] At the 2011 Billboard Music Awards, Beyoncé received the inaugural Billboard Millennium Award.[497] Beyoncé received the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards and was honored as Honorary Mother of the Year at the Australian Mother of the Year Award in Barnardo's Australia for her Humanitarian Effort in the region and the Council of Fashion Designers of America Fashion Icon Award in 2016. In 2019, alongside Jay-Z, she received GLAAD Vanguard Award which is presented to a member of the entertainment community who does not identify as LGBT but who has made a significant difference in promoting equal rights for LGBT people.[498] In 2020, she was awarded the BET Humanitarian Award. Consequence named her the 30th best singer of all time.[499] Beyoncé has won 32 Grammy Awards, both as a solo artist and member of Destiny's Child and The Carters, making her the most honored individual by the Grammys.[500][501] She is also the most nominated artist in Grammy Award history with a total of 88 nominations.[502] "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)" won Song of the Year in 2010 while "Say My Name",[46] "Crazy in Love" and "Drunk in Love" have each won Best R&B Song. Dangerously in Love, B'Day and I Am... Sasha Fierce have won Best Contemporary R&B Album, while Lemonade has won Best Urban Contemporary Album. Beyoncé set the record for the most Grammy awards won by a female artist in one night in 2010 when she won six awards, breaking the tie she previously held with Alicia Keys, Norah Jones, Alison Krauss, and Amy Winehouse, with Adele equaling this in 2012.[503] Beyoncé has won 29 MTV Video Music Awards, making her the most-awarded artist in Video Music Award history. She won two awards each with The Carters and Destiny's Child making her lifetime total of 29 VMAs. "Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It)" and "Formation" won Video of the Year in 2009 and 2016 respectively. Beyoncé tied the record set by Lady Gaga in 2010 for the most VMAs won in one night for a female artist with eight in 2016.[186] She is also the most-awarded and nominated artist in BET Award history, winning 29 awards from a total of 60 nominations,[504] the most-awarded person at the Soul Train Music Awards with 17 awards as a solo artist, and the most-awarded person at the NAACP Image Awards with 24 awards as a solo artist.[505] Additionally, Beyoncé is the most-awarded artist at the NAACP Image Awards with 22 awards[506] and the BET Awards with 32 awards.[507] Following her role in Dreamgirls, Beyoncé was nominated for Best Original Song for "Listen" and Best Actress at the Golden Globe Awards,[508] and Outstanding Actress in a Motion Picture at the NAACP Image Awards.[509] Beyoncé won two awards at the Broadcast Film Critics Association Awards 2006; Best Song for "Listen" and Best Original Soundtrack for Dreamgirls: Music from the Motion Picture.[510] According to Fuse in 2014, Beyoncé is the second-most award-winning artist of all time, after Michael Jackson.[511][512] Lemonade won a Peabody Award in 2017.[513] In 2022, "Be Alive" was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song,[514] the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Song,[515] and the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song.[516] She was named on the 2016 BBC Radio 4 Woman's Hour Power List as one of seven women judged to have had the biggest impact on women's lives over the past 70 years, alongside Margaret Thatcher, Barbara Castle, Helen Brook, Germaine Greer, Jayaben Desai and Bridget Jones,[517] She was named the Most Powerful Woman in Music on the same list in 2020.[518] In the same year, Billboard named her with Destiny's Child the third Greatest Music Video artists of all time, behind Madonna and Michael Jackson.[519] On June 16, 2021, Beyoncé won the award of "top touring artist" of the decade (2010s) at the Pollstar Awards.[520] On June 17, 2021, Beyoncé was inducted into the Black Music & Entertainment Walk of Fame as a member of the inaugural class.[521] Business and ventures[] In 2010, Beyoncé founded her own entertainment company Parkwood Entertainment which formed as an imprint based from Columbia Records, the company began as a production unit for videos and films in 2008. Parkwood Entertainment is named after a street in Houston, Texas where Beyoncé once lived.[522] With headquarters in New York City, the company serves as an umbrella for the entertainer's various brands in music, movies, videos, and fashion. The staff of Parkwood Entertainment have experiences in arts and entertainment, from filmmaking and video production to web and fashion design. In addition to departments in marketing, digital, creative, publicity, fashion design and merchandising, the company houses a state-of-the-art editing suite, where Beyoncé works on content for her worldwide tours, music videos, and television specials. Parkwood Entertainment's first production was the musical biopic Cadillac Records (2008), in which Beyoncé starred and co-produced.[523] The company has distributed Beyoncé's albums such as her self-titled fifth studio album (2013), Lemonade (2016) and The Carters, Everything is Love (2018). Beyoncé has signed other artists to Parkwood such as Chloe x Halle, who performed at Super Bowl LIII in February 2019.[524] In February 2024, Beyoncé launched Cécred, a hair care product line developed to fit different hair textures.[525] Following its launch, she established an annual grant in collaboration with BeyGood. This is an effort to provide financial support to cosmetology students and professional hair stylists within the beauty industry.[526] A yearly $500,000 is funding cosmetology school scholarships and salon business grants across five cities chosen for their large, diverse community of hair stylists: Atlanta, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles and Clementon.[lower-alpha 4][527] Endorsements and partnerships[] Beyoncé has worked with Pepsi since 2002,[528] and in 2004 appeared in a Gladiator-themed commercial with Britney Spears, Pink, and Enrique Iglesias.[529] In 2012, Beyoncé signed a $50 million deal to endorse Pepsi.[530] The Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPINET) wrote Beyoncé an open letter asking her to reconsider the deal because of the unhealthiness of the product and to donate the proceeds to a medical organisation.[531] Nevertheless, NetBase found that Beyoncé's campaign was the most talked about endorsement in April 2013, with a 70 percent positive audience response to the commercial and print ads.[532] Beyoncé has worked with Tommy Hilfiger for the fragrances True Star (singing a cover version of "Wishing on a Star")[533] and True Star Gold;[534] she also promoted Emporio Armani's Diamonds fragrance in 2007.[535] Beyoncé launched her first official fragrance, Heat, in 2010.[536] In February 2011, Beyoncé launched her second fragrance, Heat Rush.[537] Beyoncé's third fragrance, Pulse, was launched in September 2011.[538] In 2013, The Mrs. Carter Show Limited Edition version of Heat was released.[539] The six editions of Heat are the world's best-selling celebrity fragrance line,[539] with sales of over $400 million.[540] The release of a video-game Starpower: Beyoncé was cancelled after Beyoncé pulled out of a $100 million deal with GateFive who alleged the cancellation meant the sacking of 70 staff and millions of pounds lost in development.[541] It was settled out of court by her lawyers in June 2013 who said that they had cancelled because GateFive had lost its financial backers.[542] Beyoncé also has had deals with American Express,[445] Nintendo DS[543] and L'Oréal since the age of 18.[544] In March 2015, Beyoncé became a co-owner, with other artists, of the music streaming service Tidal. The service specializes in lossless audio and high definition music videos. Beyoncé's husband Jay-Z acquired the parent company of Tidal, Aspiro, in the first quarter of 2015.[545] Including Beyoncé and Jay-Z, sixteen artist stakeholders (such as Kanye West, Rihanna, Madonna, Chris Martin, Nicki Minaj and more) co-own Tidal, with the majority owning a 3% equity stake.[546] The idea of having an all artist owned streaming service was created by those involved to adapt to the increased demand for streaming within the current music industry.[547] In November 2020, Beyoncé formed a multi-year partnership with exercise equipment and media company Peloton. The partnership was formed to celebrate homecoming season in historically black colleges and universities, providing themed workout experiences inspired by Beyoncé's 2019 Homecoming film and live album after 2020's homecoming celebrations were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of the partnership, Beyoncé and Peloton are donating free memberships to all students at 10 HBCUs, and Peloton are pursuing long-term recruiting partnerships at the HCBUs. Gwen Bethel Riley, head of music at Peloton, said: "When we had conversations with Beyoncé around how critical a social impact component was to all of us, it crystallized how important it was to embrace Homecoming as an opportunity to celebrate and create dialogue around Black culture and music, in partnership with HBCUs."[548] Upon news of the partnership, a decline in Peloton's shares reversed, and its shares rose by 8.6%.[549] In 2021, Beyoncé and Jay-Z partnered with Tiffany & Co. for the company's "About Love" campaign. Beyoncé became the fourth woman, and first Black woman, to wear the 128.54-carat Tiffany Yellow Diamond.[550] The campaign featured a robin egg blue painting by Jean-Michel Basquiat titled Equals Pi (1982).[551] Both Beyonce and the brand faced significant backlash for the campaign, as the Tiffany Yellow Diamond, which was discovered in the Kimberley diamond mines in South Africa in 1877, is classified as a blood diamond and viewed as a symbol of British colonialism over Africa.[552][553][554] Fashion lines[] Beyoncé and her mother introduced House of Deréon, a women's fashion line, in 2005.[555] The concept is inspired by three generations of women in their family, with the name paying tribute to Beyoncé's grandmother, Agnèz Deréon, a respected seamstress.[556][557] According to Tina, the overall style of the line best reflects her and Beyoncé's taste and style. Beyoncé and her mother founded their family's company Beyond Productions, which provides the licensing and brand management for House of Deréon, and its junior collection, Deréon.[555] House of Deréon pieces were exhibited in Destiny's Child's shows and tours, during their Destiny Fulfilled era.[558][559] The collection features sportswear, denim offerings with fur, outerwear and accessories that include handbags and footwear, and are available at department and specialty stores across the U.S. and Canada.[555] In 2005, Beyoncé teamed up with House of Brands, a shoe company, to produce a range of footwear for House of Deréon.[560] In January 2008, Starwave Mobile launched Beyoncé Fashion Diva, a "high-style" mobile game with a social networking component, featuring the House of Deréon collection.[555] In July 2009, Beyoncé and her mother launched a new junior apparel label, Sasha Fierce for Deréon, for back-to-school selling. The collection included sportswear, outerwear, handbags, footwear, eyewear, lingerie and jewelry.[561] It was available at department stores including Macy's and Dillard's, and specialty stores Jimmy Jazz and Against All Odds.[561] In May 2010, Beyoncé teamed up with clothing store C&A to launch Deréon by Beyoncé at their stores in Brazil.[562] The collection included tailored blazers with padded shoulders, little black dresses, embroidered tops and shirts and bandage dresses.[562] In October 2014, Beyoncé signed a deal to launch an activewear line of clothing with British fashion retailer Topshop.[563][564] The 50–50 venture is called Ivy Park and was launched in April 2016. The brand's name is a nod to Beyoncé's daughter and her favorite number four (IV in Roman numerals), and also references the park where she used to run in Texas.[565] She has since bought out Topshop owner Philip Green from his 50% share after he was alleged to have sexually harassed, bullied and racially abused employees.[566] She now owns the brand herself.[567] In April 2019, it was announced that Beyoncé would become a creative partner with Adidas and further develop her athletic brand Ivy Park with the company. Knowles will also develop new clothes and footwear for Adidas. Shares for the company rose 1.3% upon the news release.[568] In December 2019, they announced a launch date of January 18, 2020.[569] Beyoncé uploaded a teaser on her website and Instagram.[570] The collection was previewed on the upcoming Elle January 2020 issue, where Beyoncé is seen wearing several garments, accessories and footwear from the first collection.[571] In February 2023, The Wall Street Journal reported that the line was struggling financially with revenue falling by more than 50% over the past fiscal year to $40 million; well short of the company's $250 million projected forecast.[572] In March 2023, it was announced that Beyoncé and Adidas reached a mutual decision to end their partnership.[573][574] Later in March 2023, Olivier Rousteing, the creative director of Balmain, announced that he and Beyoncé collaborated on a couture collection complete with sixteen looks corresponding to the sixteen tracks on her album Renaissance. This "Renaissance Couture" collection marked the first time that a Black woman oversaw the development of a collection from a Parisian couture house.[575] Philanthropy[] In 2002, Beyoncé, Kelly Rowland and Tina Knowles built the Knowles-Rowland Center for Youth, a community center in Downtown Houston. After Hurricane Katrina in 2005, Beyoncé and Rowland founded the Survivor Foundation to provide transitional housing to displaced families and provide means for new building construction, to which Beyoncé contributed an initial $250,000.[576] The foundation has since expanded to work with other charities in the city,[577] and also provided relief following Hurricane Ike three years later.[578] Beyoncé also donated $100,000 to the Gulf Coast Ike Relief Fund.[579] In 2007, Beyoncé founded the Knowles-Temenos Place Apartments, a housing complex offering living space for 43 displaced individuals. As of 2016, Beyoncé had donated $7 million for the maintenance of the complex.[580] After starring in Cadillac Records in 2009 and learning about Phoenix House, a non-profit drug and alcohol rehabilitation organization, Beyoncé donated her full $4 million salary from the film to the organization. Beyoncé and her mother subsequently established the Beyoncé Cosmetology Center, which offers a seven-month cosmetology training course helping Phoenix House's clients gain career skills during their recovery.[581] In January 2010, Beyoncé participated in George Clooney and Wyclef Jean's Hope for Haiti Now: A Global Benefit for Earthquake Relief telethon,[582] donated a large sum to the organization,[583] and was named the official face of the limited edition Council of Fashion Designers of America (CFDA) "Fashion For Haiti" T-shirt.[584] In April 2011, Beyoncé joined forces with U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama and the National Association of Broadcasters Education Foundation, to help boost the latter's campaign against child obesity[585] by reworking her single "Get Me Bodied".[586] Following the death of Osama bin Laden, Beyoncé released her cover of the Lee Greenwood song "God Bless the U.S.A.", as a charity single to help raise funds for the New York Police and Fire Widows' and Children's Benefit Fund.[587] Beyoncé became an ambassador for the 2012 World Humanitarian Day campaign donating her song "I Was Here" and its music video, shot in the UN, to the campaign.[588][589] In 2013, it was announced that Beyoncé would work with Salma Hayek and Frida Giannini on a Gucci "Chime for Change" campaign that aims to spread female empowerment. The campaign, which aired on February 28, was set to her new music.[590] A concert for the cause took place on June 1, 2013, in London.[591] With help of the crowdfunding platform Catapult, visitors of the concert could choose between several projects promoting education of women and girls.[592][593] Beyoncé also took part in "Miss a Meal", a food-donation campaign,[594] and supported Goodwill Industries through online charity auctions at Charitybuzz that support job creation throughout Europe and the U.S.[595][596] Beyoncé and Jay-Z secretly donated tens of thousands of dollars to bail out Black Lives Matter protesters in Baltimore and Ferguson, as well as funded infrastructure for the establishment of Black Lives Matter chapters across the U.S.[597] Before Beyoncé's Formation World Tour show in Tampa, her team held a private luncheon for more than 20 community leaders to discuss how Beyoncé could support local charitable initiatives, including pledging on the spot to fund 10 scholarships to provide students with financial aid. Tampa Sports Authority board member Thomas Scott said: "I don't know of a prior artist meeting with the community, seeing what their needs are, seeing how they can invest in the community. It says a lot to me about Beyoncé. She not only goes into a community and walks away with (money), but she also gives money back to that community."[598] In June 2016, Beyoncé donated over $82,000 to the United Way of Genesee County to support victims of the Flint water crisis. Beyoncé additionally donated money to support 14 students in Michigan with their college expenses.[599] In August 2016, Beyoncé and Jay-Z donated $1.5 million to civil rights groups including Black Lives Matter, Hands Up United and Dream Defenders.[600] After Hurricane Matthew, Beyoncé and Jay-Z donated $15 million to the Usain Bolt Foundation to support its efforts in rebuilding homes in Haiti.[601] During Hurricane Harvey in August 2017, Beyoncé launched BeyGOOD Houston to support those affected by the hurricane in Houston. The organization donated necessities such as cots, blankets, pillows, baby products, feminine products and wheelchairs, and funded long-term revitalization projects.[602] On September 8, Beyoncé visited Houston, where she sponsored a lunch for 400 survivors at her local church, visited the George R Brown Convention Center to discuss with people displaced by the flooding about their needs, served meals to those who lost their homes, and made a significant donation to local causes.[603][604] Beyoncé additionally donated $75,000 worth of new mattresses to survivors of the hurricane.[605] Later that month, Beyoncé released a remix of J Balvin and Willy William's "Mi Gente", with all of her proceeds being donated to disaster relief charities in Puerto Rico, Mexico, the U.S. and the Caribbean after hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, and the Chiapas and Puebla earthquakes.[606] In April 2020, Beyoncé donated $6 million to the National Alliance in Mental Health, UCLA and local community-based organizations in order to provide mental health and personal wellness services to essential workers during the COVID-19 pandemic. BeyGOOD also teamed up with local organizations to help provide resources to communities of color, including food, water, cleaning supplies, medicines and face masks.[607] The same month Beyoncé released a remix of Megan Thee Stallion's "Savage", with all proceeds benefiting Bread of Life Houston's COVID-19 relief efforts, which includes providing over 14 tons of food and supplies to 500 families and 100 senior citizens in Houston weekly.[608] In May 2020, Beyoncé provided 1,000 free COVID-19 tests in Houston as part of her and her mother's #IDidMyPart initiative, which was established due to the disproportionate deaths in African-American communities. Additionally, 1,000 gloves, masks, hot meals, essential vitamins, grocery vouchers and household items were provided.[609] In July 2020, Beyoncé established the Black-Owned Small Business Impact Fund in partnership with the NAACP, which offers $10,000 grants to black-owned small businesses in need following the George Floyd protests.[610] All proceeds from Beyoncé's single "Black Parade" were donated to the fund.[611] In September 2020, Beyoncé announced that she had donated an additional $1 million to the fund.[612] As of December 31, 2020, the fund had given 715 grants to black-owned small businesses, amounting to $7.15 million donated.[613] In October 2020, Beyoncé released a statement that she has been working with the Feminist Coalition to assist supporters of the End SARS movement in Nigeria, including covering medical costs for injured protestors, covering legal fees for arrested protestors, and providing food, emergency shelter, transportation and telecommunication means to those in need. Beyoncé also showed support for those fighting against other issues in Africa, such as the Anglophone Crisis in Cameroon, ShutItAllDown in Namibia, Zimbabwean Lives Matter in Zimbabwe and the Rape National Emergency in Liberia.[614] In December 2020, Beyoncé donated $500,000 to help alleviate the housing crisis in the U.S. caused by the cessation of the eviction moratorium, giving 100 $5,000 grants to individuals and families facing foreclosures and evictions.[615] Discography[] - Main article: Beyoncé albums discography | Solo studio albums | with Destiny's Child with The Carters Soundtrack albums | Filmography[] - Main article: Beyoncé videography#Film | | Tours and residencies[] - Main article: List of Beyoncé live performances | | See also[] - Forbes list of highest-earning musicians - Honorific nicknames in popular music - List of artists who reached number one in the United States - List of artists with the most number-one European singles - List of Billboard Social 50 number-one artists - List of black Golden Globe Award winners and nominees - List of highest-grossing live music artists - List of most-followed Instagram accounts Notes[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 Naming laws in Texas do not allow accented characters (é). - ↑ For her works with Destiny's Child and the Carters, see Destiny's Child discography, List of Destiny's Child songs and the Carters discography - ↑ The gross takings from the 29 shows which were reported to Billboard Boxscore totalled $24.9 million; the tour comprised 96 concerts.[104] - ↑ Clementon is technically a borough but is listed as one of the "cities" chosen on the Cécred website. References[] - ↑ Curto, Justin (April 30, 2021). Yes, 'Harmonies by The Hive' is Beyoncé. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Gay, Jason (February 10, 2013). "Beyoncé Knowles: The Queen B". Vogue. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 18, 2021. - ↑ Lewis, Brittany (July 9, 2013). Beyoncé credited as 'Third Ward Trill' on Jay-Z's album, 'Magna Carta Holy Grail'. Global Grind. - ↑ BeyGOOD. BeyGOOD. - ↑ Genre citations: - Reviews, Unorthodox (December 5, 2022). 5 Times Beyoncé's Music Was Inspired by Africa. - Paradza, James Chikomborero (August 4, 2022). Beyoncé has helped usher in a renaissance for African artists. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Aniftos, Rania (March 22, 2022). "Billboard Teams Up With Afro Nation to Launch New U.S. Afrobeats Songs Chart". Billboard. Archived from the original on September 21, 2023. Retrieved March 16, 2024. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."'Renaissance' Is A Love Letter To The Black Queer Roots Of Dance Music". Essence. July 29, 2022. Archived from the original on December 1, 2023. Retrieved March 16, 2024. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé 'Renaissance' review: dance album sees star at her most unguarded". Rolling Stone. July 29, 2022. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."A Brief History of Beyoncé Making Dance Music". Vulture. July 26, 2022. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Has Always Been Country". Time. February 14, 2024. Archived from the original on March 14, 2024. Retrieved March 16, 2024. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Dailey, Hannah (March 12, 2024). "Everything We Know About Beyoncé's 'Act II: Cowboy Carter' So Far". Billboard. Archived from the original on March 16, 2024. Retrieved March 16, 2024. - Beyoncé and Country Music – Exhibits. Black Music Project. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's New Country Song 'Texas Hold 'Em' Is a Tribute to Her Roots". Elle. February 11, 2024. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's "Daddy Lessons" Is Classic Country". American Songwriter. 2016. - ↑ Wells, John C. (December 19, 2008). Beyoncé. John Wells's phonetic blog. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles' name change". The Boston Globe. December 23, 2009. Archived from the original on March 21, 2013. Retrieved March 8, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Murphy, Chris (November 29, 2023). "The 25 Best Performances of 2023". Vanity Fair. Retrieved May 7, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The 70 Greatest Beyoncé Songs". Rolling Stone. April 1, 2024. Retrieved May 7, 2024. - ↑ 10.0 10.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Trust, Gary (July 5, 2022). "Beyonce Joins Paul McCartney & Michael Jackson for This Hot 100 Milestone — As a Solo Artist & With a Group". Billboard. Archived from the original on September 20, 2022. Retrieved September 18, 2022. - ↑ Angerhausen, Anna (April 3, 2024). Beyoncé's "COWBOY CARTER" breaks Spotify record. Sony Music Entertainment Europe. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Dailey, Jenny Regan,Hannah; Regan, Jenny; Dailey, Hannah (June 24, 2022). "Beyoncé's Style Evolution: See Photos". Billboard. Retrieved July 3, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Artist of the Decade". Billboard. March 12, 2013. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Boxoffice Insider: Top Grossing Black Touring Artists - Pollstar News". Pollstar. February 26, 2021. Archived from the original on May 7, 2023. Retrieved May 25, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé, Troubadour, Forum, Coachella, Billy Strings, Bert Kreischer Among Pollstar Awards Winners". Pollstar. June 16, 2021. Archived from the original on October 31, 2023. Retrieved October 15, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cooper, Brittney. "Beyoncé: Time 100 Women of the Year – 2014: Beyoncé Knowles-Carter". Time. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 5, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Taraborrelli, J. Randy (October 27, 2015). Becoming Beyoncé: The Untold Story. Grand Central Publishing. p. 28. ISBN 9781455590346. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The Family Business". MTV News. Archived from the original on September 7, 2014. Retrieved June 6, 2013. - ↑ 19.0 19.1 19.2 19.3 19.4 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles' Biography". Fox News Channel. April 15, 2008. Archived from the original on March 7, 2008. Retrieved November 6, 2018. - ↑ 20.0 20.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Smolenyak, Megan (January 12, 2012). "A Peek into Blue Ivy Carter's Past". HuffPost. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 30, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyonce Touts L'Oreal Cosmetics That 'Match' Your Native American Shade". Indian Country Today. January 19, 2012. Archived from the original on January 27, 2019. Retrieved January 27, 2019. - ↑ Mathew is African American; Tina is Louisiana Creole: - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Daryl Easlea (2011). Crazy in Love: The Beyoncé Knowles Biography. p. 4. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cherese Cartlidge (May 17, 2012). Beyoncé. Greenhaven Publishing LLC. p. 14. ISBN 978-1-4205-0966-3. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Janice Arenofsky (2009). Beyoncé Knowles: A Biography. ABC-CLIO. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-313-35914-9. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé and Solange Knowles Become First Sisters to Land No. 1 Albums". Entertainment Tonight. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 12, 2016. - ↑ 24.0 24.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Dhillon, Georgina (October 3, 2012). "Beyoncé Knowles: A Creole Queen". Kreol International Magazine. Rila Publications. Archived from the original on October 16, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2021. - ↑ 25.0 25.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Drohan, Freya (July 2, 2018). "Celebrating Beyoncé's Irish roots on her birthday". IrishCentral. Archived from the original on October 16, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Khanna, Nikki (2011). Biracial in America: Forming and Performing Racial Identity. Vermont: Lexington Books. p. 63. ISBN 978-0-7391-4574-6. Archived from the original on March 4, 2024. - ↑ Smolenyak, Megan (January 12, 2012). A Peek into Blue Ivy Carter's Past. The Huffington Post (AOL). - ↑ Beyoncé has roots in Brittany: - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Belle-Ile-en-Mer. Beyoncé serait une cousine!" [Belle-Ile-en-Mer. Beyoncé would be a cousin!]. Le Télégramme (in French). August 31, 2013. Archived from the original on October 15, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2021. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé et ses origines bretonnes" [Beyoncé and her Breton origins]. Paris Match (in French). September 2, 2013. Archived from the original on October 15, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2021. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé aurait une ancêtre bretonne" [Beyoncé would have a Breton ancestor]. Le Parisien (in French). September 1, 2013. Archived from the original on October 15, 2021. Retrieved October 16, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé in Her Own Words: Her Life, Her Body, Her Heritage". Vogue. August 6, 2018. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. I researched my ancestry recently and learned that I come from a slave owner who fell in love with and married a slave. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Daryl Easlea (2011). Crazy in Love: The Beyoncé Knowles Biography. p. 4. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cherese Cartlidge (May 17, 2012). Beyoncé. Greenhaven Publishing LLC. p. 14. ISBN 978-1-4205-0966-3. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Janice Arenofsky (2009). Beyoncé Knowles: A Biography. ABC-CLIO. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-313-35914-9. - ↑ Selon cette historienne, Beyoncé viendrait de Belgique (une fois) (fr). Canal Plus (May 22, 2023). - ↑ Warland, Maïté (April 21, 2023). Queen B aurait-elle des origines belges ? Nous avons retrouvé le cousin de Beyoncé (fr). RTBF. - ↑ 35.0 35.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Quinn, Gwendolyn (September 9, 2017). "Beyoncé Teams Up With Houston Pastor to Help Harvey Survivors". NBC News. Archived from the original on August 15, 2022. Beyoncé returned home to Houston on Friday and joined the survivors of Hurricane Harvey at her home church, St. John's United Methodist Church, with Senior Pastor, Rudy Rasmus - affectionately known to the global community as Pastor Rudy ... 'I'm home, this church is my home. I was maybe nine or ten years old the first time I sat there where my daughter [Blue Ivy] is sitting. I sang my first solo here,' she said. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Welch, Monique (July 28, 2022). "Timeline: How Beyoncé has given back to her hometown of Houston through the years". Houston Chronicle. Archived from the original on May 12, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Laird, Cheryl (November 11, 1990). "A Knowles family Christmas". Houston Chronicle. Archived from the original on April 2, 2024. Retrieved April 2, 2024 – via Beaumont Enterprise. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Laird, Cheryl (November 11, 1990). "A Knowles family Christmas". Houston Chronicle. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 15, 2021. - ↑ Beyoncé Thrilled By First Dance Teacher. Contact Music (September 6, 2006). - ↑ 40.0 40.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Biography Today. Omnigraphics. 2010. p. 10. ISBN 978-0-7808-1058-7. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles: Biography – Part 1". People. Archived from the original on April 26, 2007. - ↑ Beyoncé Knowles Biography. Contact Music. - ↑ Maughan, Jennifer. Beyoncé Knowles Childhood. Life123. - ↑ Famous Alumni. Elsik High School. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Cameo: Fat Joe Interviews Beyoncé and Mike Epps". MTV News. Archived from the original on February 24, 2008. - ↑ 46.0 46.1 46.2 46.3 46.4 46.5 46.6 46.7 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kaufman, Gil (June 13, 2005). "Destiny's Child's Long Road To Fame (The Song Isn't Called "Survivor" For Nothing)". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Kelly Rowland". CNN. February 27, 2006. Archived from the original on February 27, 2013. Retrieved February 1, 2012. - ↑ 48.0 48.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Farley, Christopher John (January 15, 2001). "Music: Call Of The Child". Time. Archived from the original on November 30, 2007. - ↑ 49.0 49.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Reynolds, J.R. (March 3, 1998). "All Grown Up". Yahoo! Music. Archived from the original on December 16, 2008. Retrieved January 12, 2007. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Tyrangiel, Josh (June 13, 2003). "Destiny's Adult". Time. Archived from the original on December 16, 2008. - ↑ Destiny's Child – VH1 Driven Documentary (Part II) (3 January 2013). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Dekel-Daks, Tal (January 29, 2013). "Ten Things About ... Destiny's Child". Digital Spy. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 22, 2013. Invalid |url-status=deviated (help) - ↑ The Best Man – Original Soundtrack. AllMusic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Basham, David (January 18, 2001). "Beyoncé To Star In "Carmen" Remake". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Todd, Martens (July 3, 2003). "Beyoncé, Branch Albums Storm The Chart". Billboard. Archived from the original on June 30, 2013. Retrieved April 1, 2008. - ↑ Past Winners Search: "Destiny's Child" – National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. The Recording Academy. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Ebert, Roger (July 26, 2002). "Austin Powers in Goldmember". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on September 14, 2012. Retrieved February 25, 2011. - ↑ Austin Powers in Goldmember. Box Office Mojo. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Moss, Corey (May 23, 2002). "Beyoncé, Britney Serve Up First Singles From 'Goldmember'". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Tobey, Matthew. The Fighting Temptations. AllMovie. - ↑ The Fighting Temptations. Metacritic. - ↑ The Fighting Temptations (2003). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Gonzalez, Ed (September 14, 2003). "The Fighting Temptations Original Soundtrack". Slant Magazine. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 22, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Tempts Fans With More Movie Songs". Billboard. October 11, 2003. Archived from the original on March 4, 2024. Retrieved August 28, 2013. - ↑ 65.0 65.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Martens, Todd (November 28, 2003). "'Stand Up' Ends 'Baby Boy' Reign". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 2, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."'03 Bonnie & Clyde". Billboard. Archived from the original on June 23, 2011. Retrieved April 29, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles: Dangerously in Love". The Guardian. June 26, 2003. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Dangerously in Love – Beyoncé. AllMusic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Todd, Martens (July 2, 2003). "Beyoncé, Branch Albums Storm The Chart". Billboard. Archived from the original on June 30, 2013. Retrieved May 8, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Chandler, D. L. (April 5, 2011). "Jay-Z And Beyoncé Celebrate Three Years Of Wedded Bliss". MTV Rapfix. Archived from the original on April 8, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Martens, Todds (August 21, 2003). "Beyoncé, Jay-Z: 'Crazy' As Ever". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 10, 2011. - ↑ 72.0 72.1 72.2 72.3 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Album and Song Chart History: Hot 100". Billboard. Archived from the original on November 21, 2021. Retrieved June 13, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Patel, Joseph (February 4, 2004). "Beyoncé Wins Most, Outkast Shine, 50 Cent Shut Out at Grammys". MTV News. Archived from the original on February 20, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Patel, Joseph (January 28, 2004). "Beyoncé, Alicia Keys And Missy Elliott Plan Spring Tour". MTV News. Archived from the original on November 7, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Alexis, Nadeska (October 16, 2012). "Beyoncé To Perform at Super Bowl XLVII Halftime Show". MTV News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 24, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Patel, Joseph (January 1, 2004). "Beyoncé Puts Off Second Solo LP To Reunite Destiny's Child". MTV News. Archived from the original on January 15, 2008. - ↑ Destiny Fulfilled – Destiny's Child. AllMusic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Whitmire, Margo (November 24, 2004). "Eminem Thankful To Remain No. 1". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 24, 2012. - ↑ Gold and Platinum – Destiny's Child. Recording Industry Association of America. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Destiny's Child Album and Song Chart History". Billboard. Archived from the original on November 21, 2021. Retrieved October 24, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Destiny's Child Debuts World Children's Day at McDonald's Anthem" (Press release). PR Newswire. November 15, 2005. Archived from the original on October 16, 2014. Retrieved November 15, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cohen, Jonathan (June 15, 2005). "Destiny's Child To Split After Fall Tour". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 1, 2008. - ↑ Number 1's – Destiny's Child. AllMusic. - ↑ Destiny's Child gets Walk of Fame star. Today (March 29, 2006). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hoffmann, Melody K. (July 2, 2007). "'Ms. Kelly' Takes Charge Sings About Healing And Heartbreak in New Music". Jet. p. 61. Archived from the original on October 7, 2023. Retrieved July 18, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Welch, Andy (May 22, 2014). "Destiny's Child reunite on new Michelle Williams song 'Say Yes' – listen". NME. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 18, 2014. - ↑ B'day – Beyoncé. AllMusic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hasty, Katie (September 13, 2006). "Beyoncé's B-Day Makes Big Bow at No. 1". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 5, 2008. - ↑ Beyoncé – Irreplaceable. Australian-charts.com. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hope, Clover (September 14, 2006). "Timberlake's 'Sexy' Fends Off Fergie For No. 1". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 3, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Get Me Bodied". Billboard. Archived from the original on February 5, 2009. - ↑ Green Light the next single. Sony BMG Music Entertainment (UK) (July 27, 2007). - ↑ 49th Annual Grammy Awards Winners List. Grammy Awards. - ↑ 50th Annual Grammy Award Winners List. Grammy Awards. - ↑ Otto, Jeff (February 8, 2006). Interview: Beyoncé Knowles. - ↑ The Pink Panther (2006). - ↑ Dreamgirls. Internet Broadway Database. - ↑ Dreamgirls. Metacritic. - ↑ Dreamgirls (2006). Box Office Mojo. - ↑ Dreamgirls (2006) – Daily Box Office. Box Office Mojo. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Condon, Bill – Director (December 15, 2006). Dreamgirls (Motion picture). United States: DreamWorks SKG. - ↑ Dreamgirls (Music from the Motion Picture). AllMusic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Whitfield, Deanne (October 27, 2007). "Malaysia's loss is Indonesia's gain: Beyoncé Knowles to play Jakarta". The Jakarta Post. Archived from the original on July 5, 2011. Retrieved October 24, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Concepcion, Mariel (October 3, 2009). "Taking It Onstage". Billboard. Vol. 121 no. 39. p. 38. ISSN 0006-2510. Archived from the original on March 4, 2024. Retrieved June 8, 2013. - ↑ B'Day (Deluxe Edition) – Beyoncé. AllMusic. - ↑ I Am ... Sasha Fierce. AllMusic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Is Beyoncé beyond her best?". news.com.au. April 12, 2009. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 15, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Jonathan, Cohen (November 26, 2008). "Beyoncé Starts 'Fierce' Atop Album Chart". Billboard. Archived from the original on December 2, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cohen, Jonathan (January 1, 2009). "Beyoncé Starts 2009 Atop The Hot 100". Billboard. Archived from the original on August 13, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé: Chart History by Weeks on Chart". Archived from the original on January 16, 2023. Retrieved May 4, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Don Omar: The Reggaeton Starts Plugs In For Digital Sales With 'IDon' And An iPhone App". Billboard. Vol. 121 no. 16. April 25, 2009. p. 41. ISSN 0006-2510. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Crawford, Trish (January 23, 2009). "Beyoncé's single an anthem for women". Toronto Star. Archived from the original on February 2, 2009. - ↑ 113.0 113.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Rodriguez, Jayson; Montgomery, James; Reid, Shaheem (September 13, 2009). "Kanye West Crashes VMA Stage During Taylor Swift's Award Speech". MTV News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 6, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Casserly, Meghan (December 10, 2012). "Beyoncé's $50 Million Pepsi Deal Takes Creative Cues From Jay-Z". Forbes. Archived from the original on December 10, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Masterson, Lawrie (April 12, 2009). "Is Beyoncé Beyond Her Best?". The Daily Telegraph. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 21, 2012. - ↑ 2008 13th Annual Satellite Awards Nominees. International Press Academy. - ↑ The 40th NAACP Image Awards. NAACP Image Award. - ↑ Harling, Danielle (January 5, 2007). Beyoncé Donates Movie Salary To Drug Treatment Centers. Black Entertainment Television. - ↑ Lewis, Hilary (April 25, 2009). Box Office Preview: Audience Obsessed With Beyoncé. - ↑ Cadillac Records. Box Office Mojo. - ↑ Obsessed. Box Office Mojo. - ↑ Lamb, Bill. Beyoncé Tied With Lauryn Hill For Most Grammy Nominations in a Single Year by a Female Artist. About.com. - ↑ 123.0 123.1 Artist Chart History – Beyoncé. Official Charts Company. - ↑ Lady Gaga feat. Beyoncé – "Telephone". australian-charts.com. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Trust, Gary (March 15, 2010). "Lady Gaga, Beyoncé Match Mariah's Record". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 18, 2010. - ↑ 126.0 126.1 Sperling, Daniel (July 30, 2011). Beyoncé: 'Career break saved my sanity'. Digital Spy. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Gardner, Elysa (January 28, 2010). "Beyoncé is poised to take a well-deserved break in 2010". USA Today. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 1, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kennedy, Gerrick D. (March 28, 2011). "Beyoncé Severs Management Ties with Father". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 1, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Vena, Jocelyn (June 28, 2011). "Beyoncé Shrugs Off 'Fear' In 'Year Of 4'". MTV News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 1, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Knowles, Beyoncé. "Eat, Play, Love". Essence. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 3, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Dillon, Nancy (May 2, 2012). "Beyoncé set to win a writing award from the New York Association of Black Journalists". New York Daily News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 8, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé to Headline Glastonbury Festival" (Press release). Columbia Records. February 10, 2011. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 12, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Phillips, Sarah (June 28, 2011). "Beyoncé headlining at Glastonbury was a great girl power moment". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Why Beyoncé Matters. - ↑ Barshad, Amos (June 30, 2011). Our Little Beyoncé's All Grown Up, and Other Observations From 4's Reviews. - ↑ 4 – Beyoncé. AllMusic. - ↑ Beyoncé – Run the World (Girls). australian-charts.com. - ↑ "Love on Top": - Grein, Paul (March 7, 2012). Week Ending March 4, 2012. Songs: The Song That TV Made Famous. Yahoo! Music. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Santiago, Karinah (March 9, 2012). "Chart Juice: Mary J. Blige Notches Record-Extending Top 10 Single". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 20, 2012. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Santiago, Karinah (March 16, 2012). "Chart Juice: Rihanna, Usher Roar Into Top 10". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 20, 2012. - Grein, Paul (March 21, 2012). Week Ending March 18, 2012. Songs: Your '80s Party Mix-Tape. Yahoo! Music. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Santiago, Karinah (March 30, 2012). "Chart Juice: LoveRance Rises 'Up!' to Top 10". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 20, 2012. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Santiago, Karinah (April 6, 2012). "Chart Juice: Melanie Fiona Notches First No. 1 on R&B/Hip-Hop Albums". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 20, 2012. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."R&B/Hip-Hop Songs: Week of April 21, 2012". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 21, 2012. - ↑ 139.0 139.1 Beyoncé To Perform '4 Intimate Nights With Beyoncé' At New York's Roseland Ballroom. Beyoncé.com (August 5, 2011). - ↑ Beyoncé's 4 Certified Platinum (August 1, 2011). - ↑ Grein, Paul (July 2, 2014). Chart Watch: Ed Sheeran's Transatlantic #1. Yahoo! Music. - ↑ Prance, Sam (February 5, 2011). Beyoncé Breaks Spotify Record as '4' Hits a Billion Streams. MTV. - ↑ Fourth Show Added at Revel. Beyoncé.com (May 7, 2012). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Makarechi, Kia (May 25, 2012). "Beyoncé, Revel: Singer's Atlantic City Concerts Mark First Return To Stage Since Blue Ivy Carter Was Born". HuffPost. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 22, 2012. - ↑ 145.0 145.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Richards, Chris (January 10, 2013). "Beyoncé to sing 'The Star-Spangled Banner' at inauguration". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on January 10, 2013. Retrieved January 11, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé answers lip-sync critics at Super Bowl presser". CBC News. Associated Press. January 31, 2013. Archived from the original on February 1, 2013. Retrieved February 1, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé to Perform at Super Bowl Halftime Show". Rap-Up. October 16, 2012. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 17, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."2013 VMAs Shatter Twitter Records". MTV News. August 26, 2013. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 29, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Reveals Herself in 'Life Is But a Dream' HBO Documentary (Trailer)". Rap-Up. January 11, 2013. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 12, 2013. - ↑ Acuna, Kirsten (January 23, 2013). HBO Wasn't 'Crazy in Love' With Beyoncé Co-Directing Her Documentary. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé announces 2014 UK and Ireland tour taking in O2 Arena and more". Metro. UK. December 11, 2013. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 11, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Malkin, Marc (April 2013). "Beyoncé Covering Amy Winehouse for The Great Gatsby". E!. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 2, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Montgomery, James (May 31, 2012). "Beyoncé Cast As Queen Tara in 3-D Animated Film 'Epic'". MTV News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 1, 2012. - ↑ Beyoncé Creates Original Song "Rise Up" for the Upcoming Motion Picture EPIC. Yahoo! Finance. - ↑ Ramsay, Jennifer. Beyoncé Shatters iTunes Store Records With 828,773 Albums Sold in Just Three Days. Apple Inc.. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caulfield, Keith (December 17, 2013). "It's Official: Beyoncé Makes History With Fifth No. 1 Album". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 17, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sisario, Ben (December 16, 2013). "Beyoncé Rejects Tradition for Social Media's Power". The New York Times. Archived from the original on December 16, 2013. Retrieved January 3, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Makarechi, Kia (December 18, 2013). "Beyoncé's Album Sales Cross 1 Million in iTunes". HuffPost. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 18, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Mackay, Emily (December 16, 2013). "Beyoncé – Beyoncé". NME. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 17, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Trust, Gary (February 5, 2014). "Katy Perry Tops Hot 100, Beyoncé Bounds to No. 2". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 5, 2014. - ↑ Music subscription revenues help drive growth in most major markets. International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (March 18, 2014). - ↑ IFPI publishes Recording Industry in Numbers – an essential guide to the global music market. International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (April 20, 2015). - ↑ Copsey, Rob (March 6, 2015). Beyoncé revealed as most-streamed female artist by women. Official Charts Company. - ↑ Beyoncé Knowles. Grammy Awards. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's Powerful Grammys Performance Brings The House Down". HuffPost. February 8, 2015. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 9, 2015. - ↑ 166.0 166.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."On The Run Tour: Beyoncé and Jay-Z". Live Nation Entertainment. PR Newswire. April 29, 2014. Archived from the original on April 29, 2014. Retrieved May 8, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Grow, Kory (August 7, 2014). "Beyoncé to Receive MTV Video Vanguard Award, Perform at VMAs". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 7, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Top-Earning Women in Music 2014". Forbes. November 4, 2014. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved November 5, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Elgot, Jessica (February 8, 2016). "Beyoncé unleashes Black Panthers homage at Super Bowl 50". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 25, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Black Pride at the Super Bowl? Beyoncé embodies a new political moment". The Guardian. February 8, 2016. ISSN 0261-3077. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 25, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé sends political message with Super Bowl halftime performance of new single, "Formation"". CBS News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 25, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Waddell, Ray (February 8, 2016). "Beyoncé to Embark on 'Formation' Stadium Tour". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 10, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pesce, Nicole Lyn (February 10, 2016). "Five clues that Beyoncé's next album is dropping any minute now". New York Daily News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 11, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bundy, Will (October 7, 2016). "Beyoncé brings out Jay-Z, Kendrick Lamar and Serena Williams on last night of tour". The Fader. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 8, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."AMAs 2016: See the Full List of Winners". Billboard. November 20, 2016. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 28, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Stutz, Colin (April 16, 2016). "Beyoncé Posts Video Teaser for 'Lemonade' Project: Watch". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 16, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caulfield, Keith (May 1, 2016). "Beyoncé Earns Sixth No. 1 Album on Billboard 200 Chart With 'Lemonade'". Billboard. Archived from the original on July 24, 2018. Retrieved July 5, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Mendizabal, Amaya (May 2, 2016). "All 12 of Beyoncé's 'Lemonade' Tracks Debut on Hot 100". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 7, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Coscarelli, Joe (May 3, 2016). "Beyoncé's 'Lemonade' Debuts at No. 1 With Huge Streaming Numbers". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 16, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caulfield, Keith (January 5, 2017). "Drake's 'Views' Is Nielsen Music's Top Album of 2016 in the U.S". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 25, 2017. - ↑ Template:Cite journal - ↑ Critic Reviews for Lemonade. Metacritic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."50 Best Albums of 2016". Rolling Stone. November 28, 2016. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved November 28, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Brown, Eric (July 26, 2016). "Beyoncé and Adele lead 2016 MTV VMA nominations". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 26, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."VMAs 2016 Winners List". Billboard. August 28, 2016. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 28, 2016. - ↑ 186.0 186.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.McCluskey, Megan (August 29, 2016). "Beyoncé Breaks Madonna's Record With More VMAs Than Any Artist Ever". Time. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 30, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Herbert, Geoff (December 5, 2016). "Time Person of the Year: 2016 finalists revealed – who should win?". The Post-Standard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 8, 2016. - ↑ Vaglanos, Alanna (January 4, 2017). For The First Time Ever, A Black Woman Will Be Headlining Coachella. AOL. - ↑ Strauss, Matthew (February 23, 2017). Beyoncé Will Not Perform at Coachella 2017. - ↑ Beyoncé Cancels Coachella, Ticket Prices Drop 12 Percent. Yahoo! Music (February 24, 2017). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Morris, Christopher (December 6, 2016). "2017 Grammy Awards: Adele, Beyoncé Lead Nominations". Variety. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 7, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Blair, Olivia (February 13, 2017). "Grammy Awards 2017: Beyoncé tearful as Adele dedicates Album of the Year win to Lemonade". The Independent. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 13, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hart, Otis (September 28, 2017). "Beyoncé Joins 'Mi Gente' Remix, Donates Proceeds To Hurricane Relief". NPR. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 7, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.White, Jack (November 30, 2017). "Ed Sheeran's Perfect remix features Beyoncé". Official Charts Company. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved November 30, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Trust, Gary (December 11, 2017). "Ed Sheeran & Beyonce's 'Perfect' Tops Billboard Hot 100". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 11, 2017. - ↑ JAY-Z – Family Feud ft. Beyoncé (January 4, 2018). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kaufman, Gil (March 3, 2018). "DJ Khaled Premieres 'Top Off' Featuring JAY-Z, Future & Beyoncé: Stream". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 4, 2018. - ↑ New Beyoncé, Jay-Z on the Run Tour Info Leaked. National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences (March 7, 2018). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Reed, Ryan (March 12, 2018). "Beyonce, Jay-Z Unite for Joint OTR II Stadium Tour". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 9, 2018. - ↑ Knowles-Carter, Beyoncé (March 12, 2018). OTR II. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Wood, Mikael (April 15, 2018). "Beyoncé's Coachella performance was incredible – and she knew it". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 15, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Exposito, Suzy (April 15, 2018). "Beychella: Beyonce Schools Festivalgoers in Her Triumphant Return". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 15, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Iasimone, Ashley (June 16, 2018). "Beyonce & Jay-Z, Aka the Carters, Drop Joint 'Everything Is Love' Album". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 16, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Elder, Sajae (June 16, 2018). "Beyoncé and Jay Z release the video for their single "Apeshit"". The Fader. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 16, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé and Jay-Z visited the Louvre to shoot a video and somehow kept it a secret". CBC Radio. June 23, 2018. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 26, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caulfield, Keith (June 24, 2018). "5 Seconds of Summer Earn Third No. 1 Album on Billboard 200 Chart With 'Youngblood'". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 25, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé and Jay-Z leave their hearts on stage and gave us Everything". TimesLIVE. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyonce's Global Citizen Outfits Celebrated Africa's Diversity". Elle. December 3, 2018. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Weingarten, Christopher R. (April 17, 2019). "Beyoncé's 'Homecoming': 5 Things We Learned About Her Coachella Triumph". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 17, 2019. - ↑ Beyonce's Homecoming on Netflix Is an Historically Black Experience (April 17, 2019). - ↑ Beyonce Surprise Drops Live Coachella Album, Netflix Doc Now Streaming. NPR. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Aswad, Jem; Halperin, Shirley (April 19, 2019). "Beyonce's Netflix Deal Worth a Whopping $60 Million". Variety. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 19, 2019. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."2019 Emmy nominations: Complete list". Los Angeles Times. July 16, 2019. Archived from the original on July 16, 2019. - ↑ Disney Movie Release Schedule Gets a Major Update. ComingSoon.net (April 25, 2017). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Gonzales, Erica (January 24, 2019). "Beyoncé Is Singing "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" in the Lion King Remake". Harper's Bazaar. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 25, 2019. - ↑ 216.0 216.1 216.2 Strauss, Matthew (July 9, 2019). Beyoncé Releasing New Song "Spirit" Tonight, Curates Lion King Album. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Sir Elton John confirms new Tim Rice collaboration for Disney's The Lion King remake". Digital Spy. February 10, 2018. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 11, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pareles, Jon (July 24, 2019). "Beyoncé Reimagines 'The Lion King' as Global 21st-Century Pop". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved August 1, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.McCarthy, Kelly (September 16, 2019). "First look at Beyoncé recording her album 'The Lion King: The Gift'". Good Morning America. Retrieved May 13, 2024. - ↑ 220.0 220.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Price, Joe (March 14, 2020). "That's Beyoncé's Pool on the Cover of Jay Electronica's Debut Album". Complex. Archived from the original on March 15, 2020. Retrieved August 17, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Megan Thee Stallion Releases Savage Remix featuring Beyoncé". Rap-Up. April 29, 2020. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 29, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Megan Thee Stallion & Beyonce's "Savage" No. 1 on Hot 100". Billboard. May 26, 2020. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 26, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kreps, Daniel (June 19, 2020). "Beyoncé Drops Surprise New Song 'Black Parade' on Juneteenth". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on June 20, 2020. Retrieved June 19, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Romack, Coco (June 23, 2020). "Beyoncé Just Dropped A Powerful A Capella Rendition Of 'Black Parade'". MTV News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Spangler, Todd (June 28, 2020). "Beyoncé Visual Album 'Black Is King' Coming to Disney Plus". Variety. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 28, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Daly, Rhian (March 15, 2021). "Beyoncé breaks record for most Grammy wins by a female artist or any singer". NME. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 16, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Triscari, Caleb (September 5, 2021). "Beyoncé contributes new song 'Be Alive' to Will Smith's 'King Richard' film". NME. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 9, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bahr, Sarah (February 8, 2022). "Beyoncé Scores Her First Oscar Nomination". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on March 30, 2022. Retrieved February 8, 2022. - ↑ Ruggieri, Melissa. Brutally honest rankings of Oscars 2022 best song performances, from Billie Eilish to Beyonce. - ↑ Dresden, Hilton (March 28, 2022). Oscars: Beyonce Delivers Stunning Opening Performance From Compton Tennis Courts. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Tannenbaum, Emily (June 10, 2022). "Beyoncé Caused a Twitter Meltdown over Deleted Instagram and Social Media Pics". Glamour. Archived from the original on June 10, 2022. Retrieved June 16, 2022. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyhive Think They've Spotted Another Clue That New Beyoncé Music is Imminent". Billboard. Archived from the original on June 16, 2022. Retrieved June 16, 2022. - ↑ 233.0 233.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Mier, Tomás (July 28, 2022). "Beyoncé Hints at More Music While Revealing 'Renaissance' Is First Act of Three-Part Project". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on February 12, 2024. Retrieved February 7, 2024. - ↑ Bloom, Madison (June 20, 2022). Listen to Beyoncé's New Song "Break My Soul". - ↑ Beyoncé to Release Renaissance in July. Yahoo! Entertainment (June 16, 2022). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sisario, Ben (June 16, 2022). "Beyoncé Announces New Album 'Renaissance,' Out Next Month". The New York Times. Archived from the original on June 16, 2022. Retrieved June 16, 2022. - ↑ Garcia, Thania (July 28, 2022). Beyoncé Confirms 'Renaissance' Is the First Part of a 'Three-Act Project'. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Krol, Charlotte (July 28, 2022). "Beyoncé's Renaissance revealed to be a three-part project". NME. Archived from the original on February 7, 2024. Retrieved February 7, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Critics celebrate Beyoncé's 'unfettered' liberation in new Renaissance album". The Independent. July 29, 2022. Archived from the original on July 29, 2022. Retrieved July 29, 2022. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caulfield, Keith (August 7, 2022). "Beyonce's 'Renaissance' Bows at No. 1 on Billboard 200 With Year's Biggest Debut By a Woman". Billboard. Archived from the original on August 7, 2022. Retrieved August 7, 2022. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Lands Her Twelfth No. 1 Hit As 'Break My Soul' Bolts To The Top Spot". Forbes. August 8, 2022. Archived from the original on December 28, 2022. Retrieved December 28, 2022. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé is criticised for using an offensive lyric on her Renaissance album". BBC News. August 1, 2022. Archived from the original on January 25, 2023. Retrieved January 25, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé to change Renaissance lyric containing ableist slur". The Guardian. August 1, 2022. Archived from the original on January 25, 2023. Retrieved January 25, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Snapes, Laura (January 22, 2023). "Beyoncé makes controversial live return at exclusive Dubai concert". The Guardian. Archived from the original on January 22, 2023. Retrieved January 22, 2023. - ↑ 245.0 245.1 Beyoncé makes controversial live return at exclusive Dubai concert (January 22, 2023). - ↑ 246.0 246.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Skinner, Tom (January 23, 2023). "Beyoncé faces backlash for performing private show in Dubai". Rolling Stone UK. Archived from the original on January 23, 2023. Retrieved January 25, 2023. - ↑ Beyoncé headlines private concert at Dubai luxury hotel. Today (January 23, 2023). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Aswad, Jem (February 1, 2023). "Beyoncé Announces 'Renaissance' Stadium Tour Dates". Variety. Archived from the original on February 1, 2023. Retrieved February 1, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Re-Sets Monthly Boxscore Record with $179 Million in August". Billboard. September 28, 2023. Archived from the original on September 28, 2023. Retrieved September 28, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.McNab, Kaitlyn (July 28, 2023). "Travis Scott and Beyoncé, Saweetie, Offset, and More Best New Songs This Week". Teen Vogue. Archived from the original on July 28, 2023. Retrieved July 28, 2023. - ↑ Beyoncé Reveals the Launch of New Hair Care Line Cécred (7 February 2024). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sisario, Ben (February 12, 2024). "Beyoncé Announces New Album in Super Bowl Commercial". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on February 12, 2024. Retrieved February 12, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Garcia, Thania (March 12, 2024). "Beyoncé Reveals New Album Title: 'Act II: Cowboy Carter'". Variety. Archived from the original on March 12, 2024. Retrieved March 12, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Thomas, Carly (March 29, 2024). "Beyoncé Releases 'Cowboy Carter' Album". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 29, 2024. Retrieved March 29, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Brathwaite, Lester Fabian (March 28, 2024). "Beyoncé's Cowboy Carter features a Miley duet, a Beatles cover, and cameos from Dolly Parton and Willie Nelson". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on March 29, 2024. Retrieved March 28, 2024. - ↑ Beyonce welcomes Team USA to the 2024 Olympic Games | NBC Olympics. - ↑ Beyoncé Introduces Team USA in Promo for Paris 2024 Olympics: 'Get a Look at America, Y'All' (27 July 2024). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Celebrates Simone Biles' Olympic Triumph in Tribute Video". Rolling Stone. August 2, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pharms, Gabrielle (August 20, 2024). "Introducing SirDavis, Beyoncé's Debut Into the World of Whisky". Harper's Bazaar. Retrieved August 20, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Arenofsky, Janice (2009). Beyoncé Knowles: A Biography. Greenwood biographies. Arizona: ABC-Clio. p. 47. ISBN 978-0-313-35914-9. Archived from the original on September 28, 2023. Retrieved November 12, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.D., Spence (May 17, 2012). "Beyonce: B'Day". IGN. Archived from the original on August 25, 2013. Retrieved October 16, 2021. See: fourth paragraph - ↑ 262.0 262.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Rosen, Jody (June 3, 2014). "The Woman on Top of the World". T. Retrieved June 20, 2014.Template:Dead link - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cardwell, Diane (September 9, 2001). "Fame; In Sync". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 26, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pareles, Jon (August 1, 2005). "Empowerment, Allure and a Runway's Flair". The New York Times. Archived from the original on February 27, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Richards, Chris (September 6, 2006). "Beyoncé's 'B'Day' Is Nothing to Celebrate". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on November 4, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The 200 Greatest Singers of All Time". Rolling Stone. January 1, 2023. Archived from the original on January 1, 2023. Retrieved January 1, 2023. - ↑ 267.0 267.1 Kellman, Andy. Beyoncé, the Bio. AllMusic. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hasted, Nick (April 26, 2013). "Music review: Behold Beyoncé, the cybernetic goddess of R&B". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 26, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Petridis, Alexis (November 13, 2008). "Pop review: Beyoncé, I Am ... Sasha Fierce". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved November 2, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Lone, Mahlia (June 30, 2017). "Jay Z & Beyoncé the King & Queen of Hip Hop". Good Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 1, 2019. - ↑ 271.0 271.1 Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; no text was provided for refs namedbillboard q&a - ↑ 272.0 272.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Vineyard, Jennifer. "Beyoncé: Behind The B'Day Videos 1". MTV News. Archived from the original on April 7, 2007. - ↑ 273.0 273.1 273.2 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Fallon, Kevin (April 13, 2017). "Does Beyoncé Write Her Own Music? And Does It Really Matter?". The Daily Beast. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 21, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Vineyard, Jennifer (October 4, 2005). "Beyoncé Shoots Down Jay-Z Marriage Rumors in Vanity Fair Interview". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Spanos, Brittany (December 3, 2015). "Sia's Reject Opus: Songwriter on Reclaiming Adele, Rihanna's Unwanted Hits". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on January 17, 2023. Retrieved January 17, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Goodman, Jessica (August 2, 2016). "Diana Gordon interview: The 'Becky with the good hair' scribe opens up about new music". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on January 17, 2023. Retrieved January 17, 2023. - ↑ Maher, Natalie (March 27, 2020). It's Caroline Polacheck's Dream World; We Just Live in It. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Neal, Rome (February 11, 2009). "Beyoncé Tries For Timeless". CBS News. Archived from the original on August 14, 2003. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bronson, Fred (December 6, 2006). "Chart Beat Chat". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 29, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hiatt, Brian (February 6, 2021). "Diane Warren: Wild Stories Behind Hits for Beyoncé, Cher, Aerosmith and More". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 7, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caulfield, Keith; Trust, Gary (May 23, 2011). "Top 20 Hot 100 Songwriters Performance". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 13, 2011. - ↑ 282.0 282.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kritselis, Alex (May 4, 2014). "Beyonce is great, but... she steals from other artists". Sunday Independent. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 24, 2020 – via PressReader.com. - ↑ Beyonce Accused of Stealing Credit for 'Bootylicious' (March 4, 2010). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Marks, Craig (February 24, 2010). "Producer Rob Fusari Dishes on Lady Gaga, Beyoncé". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 21, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Inside the making of Destiny's Child's 'Bootylicious' 15 years later". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 24, 2020. - ↑ Dupree, Jessica (December 21, 2022). Amazon Music and Parkwood Entertainment Teamed up for an Exclusive Club Renaissance Experience in Los Angeles. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Maher, Natalie (March 26, 2020). "It's Caroline Polacheck's Dream World; We Just Live in It". Harper's Bazaar. Archived from the original on January 17, 2023. Retrieved March 21, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Price, Joe (March 22, 2024). ""16 Carriages" Producer Breaks Down the Difference Between Working on 'Renaissance' and 'Cowboy Carter'". Complex. Archived from the original on March 22, 2024. Retrieved March 23, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Renshaw, David (July 3, 2017). "No I.D. Hails Beyoncé's "Genius-Level" Input Into JAY-Z's 4:44". The Fader. Archived from the original on March 27, 2024. Retrieved March 27, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Tingen, Paul. "Stuart White: Recording & Mixing Beyoncé". Sound on Sound. Archived from the original on March 27, 2024. Retrieved March 27, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé, Top Stars Tip Their Hats to Michael Jackson". People. June 27, 2009. Archived from the original on June 30, 2009. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Michael Jackson returns to stage". BBC News. November 16, 2006. Archived from the original on July 30, 2023. Retrieved August 16, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."One-on-one with the great Beyoncé transcript". Yahoo! News. October 11, 2011. Archived from the original on July 14, 2014. Retrieved June 7, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Michael Jackson returns to stage". BBC News. November 16, 2006. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 7, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caldwell, Rebecca. "Beyoncé Knowles admire "Tina Turner is someone that I admire". quotefancy. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 8, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Pays Tribute to Her 'Beloved Queen' Tina Turner: 'I Love You Endlessly'". Billboard. May 25, 2023. Archived from the original on August 16, 2023. Retrieved August 16, 2023. - ↑ 297.0 297.1 297.2 297.3 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Watson, Margeaux (August 29, 2006). "Influences: Beyoncé". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on January 7, 2007. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caldwell, Rebecca (July 21, 2001). "Destiny's Child". The Globe and Mail. p. R1. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 9, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sangweni, Yolanda. "Beyonce: 'I Always Wanted To Be Just Like Whitney Houston'". Essence. Archived from the original on March 25, 2023. Retrieved March 25, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Arenofsky, Janice (2009). Beyoncé Knowles: A Biography. Greenwood Press. p. 80. ISBN 978-0-313-35914-9. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyonce inspired by Madonna". Business Standard. December 24, 2013. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 25, 2019. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The 50 Best R&B Albums of the '90s". Complex. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 24, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Frere-Jones, Sasha (April 3, 2006). "Mariah Carey's record-breaking career". The New Yorker. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 25, 2010. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Watson, Margeaux (August 30, 2006). "Beyonce: What influences my music". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on March 26, 2023. Retrieved March 26, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Farley, Christopher John (January 26, 2002). Aaliyah: More Than a Woman. Simon and Schuster. ISBN 978-0-7434-5566-4. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Janet Jackson comeback: 7 pop stars she influenced". Hello!. May 16, 2016. Archived from the original on March 25, 2023. Retrieved March 25, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Chan, Stephanie (March 31, 2014). "Beyonce Dresses Up as Janet Jackson for Halloween". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 25, 2023. Retrieved March 25, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Exclusive: Beyoncé Talks Prince: 'I Was So Scared!'". Giant. Radio One. June 7, 2010. Archived from the original on June 16, 2010. - ↑ Bickel, Britt (April 6, 2012). Beyoncé Shares Personal Family Photos, Thanks Sade On New Website. CBS Radio. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bain, Becky (May 18, 2013). "Beyoncé Pays Tribute To Donna Summer: "She Was An Honest And Gifted Singer"". Idolator. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 15, 2013. - ↑ Beyoncé Listens to Arabic Music (18 October 2018). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyonce pays tribute to the Middle East with Arab designers, musical choices at Dubai show". Arab News. January 22, 2023. Retrieved February 24, 2024. - ↑ Which Famous Friend's B-Day Did Jay-Z and Beyoncé Celebrate?. E! (January 14, 2011). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hansen, Lena (May 6, 2021). "Beyoncé Recalls The Time She Met Selena Quintanilla And The Impact Of The Queen of Tex-Mex". People en Español. Archived from the original on August 16, 2023. Retrieved August 16, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Reid, Shaheem (July 19, 2006). "Beyoncé Asks Women To Battle Over Her For Backing-Band Roles". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 23, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Hits Milestone". ABC News. September 7, 2006. Archived from the original on February 18, 2007. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Weinstein, Farrah (September 8, 2006). "Beyoncé, Jay-Z, Christina Put The Rock in Fashion Rocks Concert". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 23, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Vineyard, Jennifer (October 9, 2008). "Beyoncé Releases Two Tracks From 'I Am ... ', Inspired By Jay-Z And Etta James". MTV News. Archived from the original on October 25, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Inspired by Michelle Obama". Rap-Up. February 25, 2011. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 12, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Alvarez, Gabriel (July 19, 2011). "Beyoncé: Mighty Fly (2011 Cover Story & Gallery)". Complex. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 1, 2011. - ↑ Basquiat. beyonce.com. - ↑ Mahlmeister, Chrissy. Beyoncé Wears Custom Jean-Michel Basquiat-Inspired Minx Nails. MTV Style. - ↑ Cher, Diana Ross inspire Beyoncé's fashions. Today (October 22, 2008). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."For The Record: Quick News On Beyoncé, Madonna, Michael Jackson, Taylor Hicks, JC Chasez, Beth Orton, Slayer & More". MTV News. June 8, 2006. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 12, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Ellen, Barbara (May 24, 2009). "She's a woman of two-halves". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on May 28, 2009. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Jones, Alice (May 27, 2009). "Beyoncé, 02 Arena, London: Diva who answers the call of booty". The Independent. Archived from the original on May 28, 2009. - ↑ Music exec: 'Beyoncé is greatest entertainer alive'. MSN. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Farber, Jim (June 21, 2009). "Beyoncé shows 'Fierce' and softer sides in tour kickoff at the Garden". New York Daily News. Archived from the original on March 11, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Classen, Stephanie (March 28, 2009). "Beyoncé no ordinary performer". The StarPhoenix. Retrieved March 31, 2009. Template:Dead link - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."24 Celebs Who Were Banned From Other Countries". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 7, 2020. - ↑ How La La Land Helped Live-Action Beauty and the Beast Remake (March 18, 2017). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Johnson, Caitlin A. (December 13, 2006). "Beyoncé On Love, Depression, and Reality". CBS News. Archived from the original on December 8, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Crosley, Hillary (February 26, 2010). "Beyoncé Says She 'Killed' Sasha Fierce". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Prepares for Revel Concerts (Part 2)". Rap-Up. May 25, 2012. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 28, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Touré (March 4, 2004). "Cover Story: A Woman Possessed". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on May 2, 2009. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles". Glamour. Archived from the original on March 3, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Barlett, Liam (March 11, 2007). "Bootylicious Beyoncé". 60 Minutes. Archived from the original on August 10, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Eisinger, Amy (May 22, 2009). "'Bootylicious' Beyoncé says it's 'sexier' to stay out of the gym". New York Daily News. Archived from the original on November 24, 2011. - ↑ Lamb, Bill (March 17, 2006). Beyoncé and Destiny's Child Enter the Dictionary With Bootylicious. Dotdash Meredith. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Talarico, Brittany (January 4, 2011). "Watch: Beyoncé, Julianne Moore Strut Down Tom Ford Catwalk". OK!. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 12, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Chili, Alexis (April 25, 2012). "Motherhood Makes Beyoncé Feel 'More Beautiful Than Ever'". People. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 8, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Nostro, Lauren; Patterson, Julian (December 10, 2012). "1. Beyoncé – The 100 Hottest Female Singers of All Time". Complex. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 12, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Wallace, Amy (January 9, 2013). "Miss Millennium: Beyoncé". GQ. p. 1. Archived from the original on January 16, 2013. Retrieved January 19, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The Real Version of the Cover Everyone Is Talking About". GQ. January 9, 2013. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 19, 2013. - ↑ Viera, Bené. VH1's 100 Sexiest Artists [Complete List]. VH1. - ↑ Beyoncé's New Wax Figure. Madame Tussauds New York. - ↑ Beyoncé. Madame Tussauds Berlin. - ↑ Beyonce. Madame Tussauds Singapore. - ↑ Beyonce. Madame Tussauds Tokyo. - ↑ Beyoncé. Madame Tussauds™ London. - ↑ Beyoncé wax figure at Madame Tussauds Washington D.C. Madame Tussauds. - ↑ Beyoncé. Madame Tussauds Amsterdam. - ↑ Beyoncé wax figure at Amsterdam. Madame Tussauds. - ↑ Beyoncé Knowles. Madame Tussauds Bangkok. - ↑ Beyoncé's wax figure at Madame Tussauds Hollywood. Madame Tussauds. - ↑ A Madame Tussauds employee moves a wax figure of Beyoncé at the international airport in Sydney. Yahoo! Philippines (February 28, 2013). - ↑ "Önce dalga geçtim, sonra kendimden geçtim" (Madame Tussauds İstanbul Yolcusu Kalmasın) (tr). - ↑ Beyoncé Knowles. Madame Tussauds Blackpool. - ↑ Beyoncé arrives at Madame Tussauds Las Vegas (18 November 2019). - ↑ Music Stars. Madame Tussauds Orlando. - ↑ Music Zone. Madame Tussauds San Francisco. - ↑ Here's your first look at Madame Tussauds Nashville. - ↑ Zámbó Árpy letapizta Beyoncét a budapesti Madame Tussauds panoptikumban (mg) (24 May 2023). - ↑ Zum zehnten Geburtstag: Neue Beyoncé Wachsfigur im Madame Tussauds Wien (de) (8 July 2021). - ↑ 碧昂丝 (zh). - ↑ A peak inside Madame Tussauds Delhi. - ↑ Bow down for Beyoncé's new wax figure. Madame Tussauds New York (July 27, 2023). - ↑ Beyoncé Wax Figure Debuts at The Edge in New York City. Billboard (July 27, 2023). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hosking, Patrick; Wighton, David (August 8, 2007). "Beyoncé wearing one of my dresses is harmony". The Times. London. Archived from the original on June 15, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Knowles, Tina; Alexander, Zoe (June 2005). Destiny's Style: Bootylicious Fashion, Beauty and Lifestyle Secrets From Destiny's Child. DIANE Publishing Company. ISBN 978-0-7567-9351-7. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Book Excerpt: Destiny's Style". ABC News. Archived from the original on March 5, 2006. - ↑ Vineyard, Jennifer. Beyoncé: Behind The B'Day Videos 3. MTV News. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles: Biography – Part 2". People. Archived from the original on May 4, 2007. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Goldsmith, Belinda (September 13, 2007). "Beyoncé tops fashion list". Reuters. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Video Premiere: 'I Was Here (Live At Roseland)'. Beyonceonline.com (November 16, 2011). - ↑ PETA surprises Beyoncé at New York dinner. Associated Press (June 16, 2006). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Jones, Vanessa E. (August 5, 2007). "Bewitched. Bothered. Beyoncé". The Boston Globe. Archived from the original on December 5, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sweney, Mark (August 8, 2008). "Beyoncé Knowles: L'Oreal accused of 'whitening' singer in cosmetics ad". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé L'Oreal ad controversy inspires black community backlash". NBC News. Archived from the original on May 24, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Alexander, Ella (May 30, 2013). "H&M For All: A Healthy Start". Vogue. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 30, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé is a powerful voice for Black Lives Matter. Some people hate her for it". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on December 5, 2016. Retrieved December 3, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kornhaber, Spencer (April 28, 2016). "The Genius of Beyoncé Selling 'Boycott Beyoncé' Shirts". The Atlantic. Retrieved January 7, 2022. - ↑ Weaver, Hilary (April 27, 2016). Because Beyoncé Owns Her Haters, She's Selling 'Boycott Beyoncé' Tour Merchandise. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.France, Lisa Respers (April 28, 2016). "Beyonce selling 'Boycott Beyonce' shirts". CNN Business. Retrieved January 7, 2022. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé: 'Anyone Who Perceives My Message as Anti-Police Is Completely Mistaken'". Time. Archived from the original on April 5, 2016. Retrieved December 3, 2018. - ↑ When Did Beyoncé and Jay-Z Start Dating?. Capital. - ↑ Chandler, D.L.. Jay-Z and Beyoncé Celebrate Three Years of Wedded Bliss. MTV Rapfix. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles Biography". People. Archived from the original on April 26, 2007. Retrieved March 28, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Helling, Steve (April 22, 2008). "Beyoncé and Jay-Z File Signed Marriage License". People. Archived from the original on April 22, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Lee, Youyoung (June 3, 2013). "Beyoncé, Jay-Z Go On Date in New York, Watch Iron Man 3". HuffPost. Retrieved June 6, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bailey, Alyssa (April 6, 2018). "Jay-Z on Overcoming Cheating: Beyoncé 'Knew I'm Not the Worst of What I've Done'". Elle. New York City: Hachette Filipacchi Media. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 9, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Reed, Anika (November 29, 2017). "Jay-Z talks infidelity, confirms a joint album with Beyoncé exists". USA Today. Archived from the original on November 29, 2017. Retrieved May 9, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé documentary describing 'pain and trauma' of miscarriage airs on BBC". The Independent. Archived from the original on March 31, 2013. Retrieved September 27, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Mathur, Aditi. "You don't yet know what swag is / But you was made in Paris / And mama woke up the next day / And shot her album package". International Business Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 10, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kaufman, Gil. "Beyoncé Puts 'Love On Top' At VMAs, Reveals Pregnancy". MTV News. Archived from the original on September 23, 2011. Retrieved April 10, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Mitchell, John (August 30, 2011). "Beyoncé's Album Sees Sales Surge After VMA Performance Of 'Love On Top'". MTV Newsroom. Archived from the original on September 27, 2011. Retrieved August 31, 2011. - ↑ Beyoncé pregnancy announcement at MTV VMA's sparks Twitter world record. Guinness World Records. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Smith, Catharine (August 29, 2011). "Beyoncé Pregnancy: New Twitter Record Set At MTV VMAs". HuffPost. Archived from the original on June 3, 2013. Retrieved August 30, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."News of Beyoncé's pregnancy grips Google users, US Open, ESPN popular". Yahoo! News (Philippines). September 5, 2011. Archived from the original on October 29, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bernstein, Nina (January 9, 2012). "After Beyoncé Gives Birth, Patients Protest Celebrity Security at Lenox Hill Hospital". The New York Times. Archived from the original on March 30, 2021. Retrieved February 18, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pareles, Jon (April 25, 2016). "Review: Beyoncé Makes 'Lemonade' Out of Marital Strife". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 27, 2016. Retrieved June 24, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sheffield, Rob (April 25, 2016). "Beyonce Lemonade Album Review". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on July 13, 2018. Retrieved September 1, 2019. - ↑ Ott, Kristen (February 2, 2017). Beyoncé's pregnancy announcement shatters world record for the Most liked image on Instagram. Guinness World Records. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Harmon, Steph (July 14, 2017). "Beyoncé publishes photo of her twins on Instagram". The Guardian. Archived from the original on July 14, 2017. Retrieved July 14, 2017. - ↑ Harris, Kristin (November 29, 2017). Here Are The Top 10 Most-Liked Instagram Photos Of 2017. BuzzFeed. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.n/a, n/a (August 6, 2018). "Beyonce in Vogue: 'I've been through hell and back'". Newsbeat. Archived from the original on October 12, 2021. Retrieved August 6, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Meet Tyler Mitchell, the Photographer Who Shot Beyoncé For Vogue's September Issue". Vogue. Archived from the original on August 6, 2018. Retrieved August 13, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Vena, Jocelyn. "'At Last': The Story Behind The Song Beyoncé Sang for the Obamas' First Dance". MTV News. Retrieved April 15, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé and Jay-Z Raise $4 Million for Obama at NYC Event". Rap-Up. September 19, 2012. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 27, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Daunt, Tina (September 18, 2012). "Beyoncé, Jay-Z Raise $4 Million for Obama in New York". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on September 19, 2012. Retrieved December 18, 2013. - ↑ I Am. Beyoncé. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Schwarz, Hunter (May 14, 2015). "Hillary Clinton's got Beyoncé. And that's important". The Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Archived from the original on October 13, 2015. Retrieved March 3, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Merica, Dan. "Jay Z, Beyonce headline concert for Clinton". CNN. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Gonzalez, Sandra (November 6, 2018). "Beyoncé wants you to know she supports Beto O'Rourke". CNN. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 22, 2020. - ↑ Wagmeister, Elizabeth (July 23, 2024). Beyoncé gives Kamala Harris permission to use her song 'Freedom' for her presidential campaign. - ↑ Willman, Chris (July 23, 2024). Beyoncé OKs Kamala Harris' Use of 'Freedom' as an Official Campaign Song. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sullivan, Helen (July 25, 2024). "'We choose freedom': Kamala Harris campaign launches first ad". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved July 25, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.O'Connor, Maureen (April 4, 2013). "Beyoncé Is a 'Feminist, I Guess'". New York. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 13, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bury, Liz (December 13, 2013). "Beyoncé samples Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's call to feminism". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 14, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bennett, Jessica. "How to Reclaim the F-Word? Just Call Beyoncé". Time. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 26, 2017. - ↑ Template:Cite journal - ↑ Kuo, Lily (October 9, 2016). Chimamanda Adichie says Beyonce's kind of feminism isn't her kind of feminism. - ↑ Beware of 'Feminism Lite'. TED (March 7, 2017). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The reason Beyoncé performed in front of the word 'feminist'". The Independent. April 5, 2016. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 7, 2019. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Lee, Jolie (May 10, 2014). "Beyoncé, Jennifer Garner, Jane Lynch join 'Ban Bossy' campaign". USA Today. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 1, 2014. - ↑ Template:Cite journal - ↑ About Mayors Against Illegal Guns. demandaction.org. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Gun Control: Celebrities 'Demand a Plan'". Sky News. December 22, 2012. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 4, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Gay Marriage: Bey Shows Support For Gay Marriage". Vibe. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé, citing North Carolina's HB2, urges support for equality". The Charlotte Observer. May 4, 2016. Archived from the original on February 12, 2018. Retrieved February 11, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Monde, Chiderah (July 22, 2013). "Beyoncé posts photo of Daily News cover Trayvon Martin rally". New York Daily News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 24, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Bacle, Ariana (May 11, 2016). "Michael Brown's mother talks Lemonade appearance: 'They wanted me to look regal'". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 8, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Gottesman, Tamar (April 4, 2016). "Exclusive: Beyoncé Wants to Change the Conversation". Elle. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 8, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hazel, Allison (February 24, 2017). "Beyoncé Shows Support for Transgender Students After Trump Withdraws Bathroom Protections". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 27, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Mukhtar, Amel (November 3, 2023). "How Es Devlin Set The Stage For Beyoncé's Renaissance, The Compton Super Bowl, And Her Galactic New Book". British Vogue. Retrieved July 9, 2024. - ↑ Gabbara, Princess (November 18, 2018). A Ranking Of Beyonce's 'I Am…Sasha Fierce' Deluxe Tracklist. - ↑ 437.0 437.1 Herman, James (February 10, 2017). Becoming Beyoncé: 20 Things You Don't Know About the Singer's Journey to Superstardom. Yahoo!. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's Evolution". Harper's Bazaar. August 10, 2021. Retrieved March 21, 2024. - ↑ Yeates, Cydney (May 30, 2023). Beyoncé's Set Designer Breaks Down Epic Renaissance Tour Staging. - ↑ Yeates, Cydney (May 30, 2023). Beyoncé's Set Designer Breaks Down Epic Renaissance Tour Staging. Yahoo! Movies. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Phillip, Riann (December 1, 2023). "The 5 Biggest Takeaways From Beyoncé's Renaissance Film". British Vogue. Retrieved March 21, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Wortham, Jenna (September 27, 2023). "Beyoncé's Silvery, Shimmering Renaissance". The New York Times. Retrieved March 21, 2024. - ↑ Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; no text was provided for refs namedbv - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé & Jay-Z Top Earning Couple". MTV News. November 21, 2008. Archived from the original on October 21, 2012. - ↑ 445.0 445.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Rose, Lacey (September 22, 2008). "World's Best-Paid Music Stars". Forbes. Archived from the original on April 7, 2009. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Rose, Lacey (June 3, 2009). "Inside Beyoncé's Entertainment Empire". Forbes. Archived from the original on June 6, 2009. - ↑ Copsey, Robert (October 7, 2010). GaGa, Beyoncé among most powerful women. Digital Spy. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Isaac, Cheryl (May 18, 2012). "6 Personal Branding Lessons From Forbes Celebrity 100 Women". Forbes. Archived from the original on May 23, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Profile: Beyoncé Knowles". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 20, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Antunes, Anderson (August 6, 2012). "The World's Highest-Paid Celebrity Couples". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 12, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé and Jay-Z Are Guinness Book's 'Power Couple'". Essence. September 20, 2010. Archived from the original on October 27, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Greenburg, Zack O'Malley (February 1, 2013). "Why Beyoncé Isn't Getting Paid For Her Super Bowl Halftime Gig". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 30, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Karmali, Sarah (April 17, 2013). "Beyoncé and Jay-Z Are Music's First Billionaire Couple". Vogue. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 6, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The World's Most Powerful Celebrities". Forbes. 2013. Archived from the original on May 18, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pomerantz, Dorothy (June 30, 2014). "Beyoncé Knowles Tops The FORBES Celebrity 100 List". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 11, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Greenburg, Zack O'Malley (July 11, 2016). "Beyoncé and Jay-Z Are The World's Highest-Paid Celebrity Couple Of 2016". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 11, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Robehmed, Natalie (May 17, 2017). "America's Richest Female Celebrities 2017: Oprah, Judge Judy And Beyoncé Rule". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 17, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Robehmed, Natalie (June 12, 2017). "Celebrity 100: The World's Highest-Paid Celebrities Of 2017". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 7, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Greenburg, Zack O'Malley (May 17, 2017). "Beyoncé and Jay-Z Are Officially A Billion-Dollar Couple". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 17, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Billboard's Top 50 Money Makers of 2016". Billboard. July 13, 2017. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved July 14, 2017. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Dellatto, Marisa (December 13, 2023). "Beyoncé Is Now Worth $800 Million". Forbes. Retrieved March 13, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Flemming, Jack (May 19, 2023). "Jay-Z and Beyoncé drop $200 million on Malibu mansion, setting a record in California". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on May 20, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's star formation: from Destiny's Child to Queen Bey". The Guardian. June 27, 2016. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Grady, Constance (August 15, 2022). How Beyoncé turned herself into a pop god. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Her Highness". The New Yorker. February 20, 2013. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 20, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Fram, Eric (November 20, 2018). "Turning the Tables: Your List Of The 21st Century's Most Influential Women Musicians". NPR. Retrieved October 30, 2022. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Clear, James (October 18, 2018). Atomic Habits: The life-changing million copy bestseller. Random House. ISBN 978-1-4735-3780-4 – via Google Books. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Smith, Caspar (November 29, 2009). "Beyoncé: artist of the decade". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 17, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Suskind, Alex (November 20, 2019). "Best of the Decade: How Beyoncé defined the last 10 years of music". Entertainment Weekly. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved November 22, 2019. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Top R&B/Hip-Hop Artists". Billboard. October 31, 2019. Retrieved January 3, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cooper, Leonie (December 3, 2019). "10 Artists Who Defined The Decade: The 2010s". NME. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 24, 2019. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Spanos, Brittany (October 17, 2018). "The Millennial 100". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 8, 2019. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Is A Great Rapper And Always Has Been". The Fader. June 7, 2021. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2021. - ↑ What Genre Is Beyonce? (April 18, 2021). - ↑ Michael Eric Dyson Says "Beyoncé Snatched the Crown From Michael Jackson". Okayplayer (February 18, 2019). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."How 4 Was Beyoncé's Low-Key Revinvention". The Fader. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Menza, Kaitlin (December 12, 2014). "One Year Later: How Beyoncé's Surprise Album Ended Up Changing the Music Industry Forever". Marie Claire. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2021. - ↑ Cox, Jamieson (April 25, 2016). Beyoncé's 'visual album' Lemonade sets a new standard for pop storytelling. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."How Beyoncé's Lemonade became a pop culture phenomenon". The Guardian. April 26, 2016. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 3, 2021. - ↑ Why Beyoncé's Lemonade is having such a powerful impact – Music Reads – Double J. Australian Broadcasting Corporation (March 9, 2021). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Karlin, Lily (August 29, 2014). "Lena Dunham Posts An 'I Woke Up Like This' Selfie That We Can Actually Relate To". HuffPost. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Moran, Lee (June 19, 2019). "DNC's Anti-Donald Trump 'Boy Bye' Phone Wallpaper Backfires Spectacularly". HuffPost. - ↑ Sommers, Kat. The Rise of the Visual Album: How 'Lemonade' Stacks Up. BBC America. - ↑ Smith, Da'Shan (June 2, 2019). Surprise Albums: 17 Drops That Shocked The Music World. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Atherton, Ben (January 13, 2012). "CSIRO unveils bootylicious Beyoncé fly". ABC News (Australia). Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved January 13, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.The Queens of Pop: Viva La Diva. August 6, 2021. BBC Two. - ↑ She is one of the best-selling artists of all time: - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Taylor Swift and Beyoncé reporters wanted by biggest newspaper chain in US". Sky News. September 14, 2023. Retrieved November 8, 2023. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Bow Down to the Queen! 146 Best Beyoncé Quotes to Celebrate 'Queen Bey' in All Her Fierceness". Parade. April 11, 2023. Retrieved November 8, 2023. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's Style Evolution: See Photos". Billboard. June 24, 2022. Retrieved September 11, 2022. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."'Beyoncé' album review: More than the delivery is a surprise". Chicago Tribune. December 14, 2013. Retrieved March 7, 2015. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."According to Nielsen SoundScan, A Breakdown of Beyoncé's US & Worldwide Album Sales". HuffPost. November 14, 2016. Retrieved November 22, 2016. - Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Caulfield, Keith (December 30, 2015). "Beyoncé's 'Dangerously in Love' Surpasses 5 Million Sold in U.S." Billboard. Retrieved December 30, 2015. - There's one huge difference between Madonna and Beyoncé (March 31, 2014). - Grein, Paul (February 6, 2014). Chart Watch: Oh Lorde Is She Hot. Yahoo! Music. - The 50 people who matter today: 41–50 (September 24, 2009). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pedersen, Erik (February 17, 2010). "Beyoncé Tops Decade's RIAA Sales". Billboard. Archived from the original on March 3, 2011. - ↑ RIAA Tallies the Decade's Top Gold and Platinum Award Winners. Recording Industry Association of America (February 17, 2010). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Radio Songs Artists of the Decade". Billboard. Archived from the original on September 15, 2012. Retrieved October 20, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Trust, Gary (May 28, 2010). "Ask Billboard: Beyoncé Vs. Gaga Vs. Rihanna". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 13, 2010. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Artists of the Decade Music Chart". Billboard. Retrieved October 20, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The Top 50 R&B/Hip Hop Artists of the Past 25 Years". Billboard. p. 4. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 23, 2011. - ↑ Graham, Mark (February 13, 2012). VH1's 100 Greatest Women in Music (Complete List). VH1. - ↑ Leona Lewis, Amy Winehouse and Coldplay win at the World Music Awards » Fametastic's celebrity gossip, news and pictures. Fametastic (March 14, 2009). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Rihanna, Beyoncé Top NRJ Music Award Winners". Vibe. January 25, 2010. Archived from the original on October 14, 2022. Retrieved January 25, 2024. - ↑ Ramirez, Erika (May 23, 2011). Beyonce Accepts Billboard Millennium Award, Delivers Show-Stopping Performance. - ↑ Beyoncé and Jay-Z to be honored at the 30th Annual GLAAD Media Awards for accelerating LGBTQ acceptance. GLAAD (March 11, 2019). - ↑ The 100 Greatest Singers of All Time (October 11, 2016). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Novak, Kim (March 15, 2021). "Grammys 2021: Beyoncé makes history as she smashes record for most awards won by a singer, male or female". Metro. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 15, 2021. - ↑ Past Winners Search – Beyoncé. National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.McEvoy, Colin (February 6, 2023). "Beyoncé Made History at the 2023 Grammy Awards. She Wasn't the Only One". Biography. Retrieved February 11, 2023. - ↑ And The Grammy Went To ... Adele. National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Wins Big at BET Awards". Rap-Up. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 7, 2016. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Emily Dixon (March 29, 2021). "Beyoncé Broke Yet Another Record at the NAACP Image Awards". Marie Claire. Archived from the original on October 5, 2023. Retrieved January 25, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé has won the most NAACP Image Awards in history". New York Daily News. March 29, 2021. - ↑ Most BET Awards won by an individual. Guinness World Records (June 27, 2021). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hosking, Patrick; Wighton, David (December 15, 2006). "Nominees for the 2007 Golden Globe Awards in full". The Times. Archived from the original on March 11, 2007. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."President, Celebrities Announce 38th NAACP Image Award Nominees" (Press release). National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). January 9, 2007. Archived from the original on July 9, 2010. Retrieved October 24, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Film critics honour The Departed". BBC. January 13, 2007. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 20, 2013. - ↑ 100 Most Award-Winning Artists: Drake, Xtina, Macklemore & More. Fuse (March 10, 2014). - ↑ 100 Most Award-Winning Artists. Fuse. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's Lemonade among Peabody Award winners for Entertainment". Entertainment Weekly. April 20, 2017. Retrieved April 20, 2017. - ↑ Hipes, Patrick (February 8, 2022). Oscar Nominations: 'The Power Of The Dog', 'Dune' Top List; 'Drive My Car' Among Big Surprises. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."It's Beyonce vs. Jay-Z for Best Original Song at 2022 Critics Choice Awards — Will It Be the Same With Oscars?". Billboard. December 13, 2021. Retrieved December 14, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.McIntyre, Hugh. "Beyoncé, Jennifer Hudson And Billie Eilish Lead The 2022 Golden Globes' Music Categories". Forbes. Retrieved December 14, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Margaret Thatcher tops Woman's Hour Power List". BBC News. December 14, 2016. Retrieved January 14, 2024. - ↑ Khattar, Aslam (March 23, 2020). BBC appoints Beyoncé as the most powerful woman in the music. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The 100 Greatest Music Video Artists of All Time: Staff List". Billboard. August 27, 2020. Archived from the original on August 27, 2020. Retrieved September 5, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Willman, Chris (June 16, 2021). "Pollstar Awards Laud Beyonce, Lady Gaga, Garth Brooks and Others as Touring Artists of the Decade". Variety. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 17, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Ruggieri, Melissa (June 17, 2021). "Black Music and Entertainment Walk of Fame celebrates inductees at inaugural ceremony". The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 18, 2021. - ↑ Beyoncé. Music World Entertainment. - ↑ Buchanan, Jason. Cadillac Records (2008). AllMovie. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyonce Is 'Proud' of Chloe x Halle After Super Bowl 2019 Performance". Billboard. February 5, 2019. Retrieved February 11, 2023. - ↑ Beyoncé Reveals the Launch of New Hair Care Line Cécred (7 February 2024). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Denis, Kyle (February 20, 2024). "Beyoncé's BeyGOOD & Cécred Fund Announces $500K Cosmetology School Scholarship". Billboard. Retrieved March 9, 2024. - ↑ Philanthropy - Cécred. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Ives, Nat (December 18, 2002). "Pepsi Switches To a New Voice Of a Generation". The New York Times. Archived from the original on November 16, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Britney, Beyoncé, Pink star in Pepsi ad". USA Today. January 27, 2004. Archived from the original on June 28, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sisario, Ben (December 9, 2012). "In Beyoncé Deal, Pepsi Focuses on Collaboration". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 11, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Arumugam, Nadia (January 20, 2013). "White House Removes Petition Demanding Pepsi Spokesperson Beyoncé Ousted From Inauguration Lineup". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 18, 2013. - ↑ Pepsi/Beyoncé and Chanel/Brad Pitt Battle for Most Celebrity Spokesperson Chatter: NetBase Evaluates Endorsement Buzz Winners. Market Wired (April 10, 2013). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Jessen, Monique & Silverman, Stephen (June 22, 2004). "Beyoncé Launches New True Star Fragrance". People. Archived from the original on May 13, 2007. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."For The Record: Quick News On Britney Spears, Kevin Federline, Paris Hilton, Beyoncé, Beanie Sigel, Madonna & More". MTV News. November 9, 2005. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé stars in new fragrance campaign". USA Today. August 8, 2007. Archived from the original on February 8, 2009. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Launches Her First Fragrance: Beyoncé Heat". People. December 18, 2009. Archived from the original on December 19, 2009. Retrieved June 18, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's scents have Jay-Z's approval". The Indian Express. March 7, 2011. Archived from the original on November 16, 2012. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Coty Beauty Introduces Beyoncé Pulse" (Press release). Coty Beauty. June 16, 2011. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 18, 2011. - ↑ 539.0 539.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Carter, Holly (August 8, 2013). "Beyoncé Has the No. 1 Selling Celebrity Fragrance Line – Let's Have a Dance Party!". People. Archived from the original on August 11, 2013. Retrieved August 8, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Naughton, Julie (August 9, 2013). "Beyoncé Wraps Tour With Scent Success". Women's Wear Daily. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 9, 2013. Template:Subscription required - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Michaels, Sean (April 28, 2011). "Beyoncé sued for $100m by video game developer". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 6, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Knowles settles with gaming company". Belfast Telegraph. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 15, 2013. Template:Dead link - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Totilo, Stephen (March 19, 2009). "Beyoncé Promotes Nintendo Game, Admits Weakness For 'Super Mario'". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Mitchell, Gail (October 2, 2009). "Beyoncé: The Billboard Q&A". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 8, 2009. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Jay-Z Buys the Music Streaming Firm, Aspiro". The New York Times. March 13, 2015. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 31, 2015. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Flanagan, Andrew (March 30, 2015). "It's Official: Jay-Z's Historic Tidal Launches With 16 Artist Stakeholders". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 31, 2015. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Sisario, Ben (March 30, 2015). "Jay-Z Reveals Plans for Tidal, a Streaming Music Service". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved March 31, 2015. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Teams With Peloton for Multi-Year Partnership Benefiting Historically Black Colleges & Universities". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Peloton Rises on Partnership With Beyonce for Workout Series". Bloomberg.com. November 10, 2020. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Treisman, Rachel (August 23, 2021). "Beyoncé Just Became The First Black Woman To Wear The Iconic Tiffany Diamond". NPR. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 23, 2021. - ↑ Kinsella, Eileen (August 23, 2021). Here's the Little-Known History of the Robin's Egg Blue Basquiat Painting That Stars in Beyoncé and Jay-Z's New Tiffany Ad. Artnet. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Ramírez de Arellano, Susanne (August 30, 2021). "What is Beyoncé's Tiffany diamond ad campaign really selling?". NBC News. Retrieved January 3, 2024. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Attiah, Karen (August 27, 2021). "Sorry, Beyoncé, but Tiffany's blood diamonds aren't a girl's best friend". The Washington Post. ISSN 0190-8286. Retrieved January 3, 2024. - ↑ Friel, Mikhaila (August 28, 2021). Beyoncé is facing backlash for promoting a 'blood diamond' necklace in a Tiffany campaign that celebrates her being the first Black woman to wear it. Insider Inc.. - ↑ 555.0 555.1 555.2 555.3 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Fashion Diva Hits the Runway as the Most Stylish Game for Phones" (Press release). Business Wire. January 15, 2008. Archived from the original on February 12, 2012 – via Reuters. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Silverman, Stephen (November 16, 2005). "Beyoncé Unveils Her New Fashion Line". People. Archived from the original on October 11, 2007. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Celebrity fashion labels: The good, the bad and the ugly". CNN. September 26, 2011. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 18, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Adenitire, Adenike (June 8, 2005). "Destiny's Child Put on a Fashion Show at U.K. Concert". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Moss, Corey (April 12, 2005). "Beyoncé In Talks For Potential 'Dream' Film Role". MTV News. Archived from the original on June 24, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Butler, Meredith (August 15, 2005). "Rancho Bernardo company teams with singer". North County Times. Archived from the original on May 25, 2024. - ↑ 561.0 561.1 Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kaplan, Julee (July 1, 2009). "Beyoncé and Tina Knowles Launch Sasha Fierce". Women's Wear Daily. Archived from the original on August 6, 2011. - ↑ 562.0 562.1 Dereon by Beyoncé for C&A. Fashionlooks.com (June 29, 2010). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Alter, Charlotte (October 27, 2014). "Beyoncé Launching Athletic Brand With Topshop". Time. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 30, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Adamczyk, Alicia (October 27, 2014). "Beyoncé To Launch Activewear Brand With Topshop". Forbes. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved October 30, 2014. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé talks about her athleisure brand Ivy Park and the pressure to be perfect". The Daily Telegraph. April 6, 2016. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 26, 2017. - ↑ Beyoncé buys Ivy Park stake from Topshop owner accused of sexual harassment and racial abuse. Mic (November 15, 2018). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé's Ivy Park Cuts Ties With Topshop Amid Allegations". Time. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved December 24, 2018. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Pfanner, Eric; Bhasin, Kim (April 4, 2019). "Beyonce Teams Up With Adidas to Sell Shoes and Clothes". Bloomberg News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 27, 2019. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyonce Details Upcoming Ivy Park Collection Set For January 2020 Release". Billboard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Beyoncé Knowles's Ivy Park x Adidas Collaboration (January 18, 2020). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé on Motherhood, Self-Care, and Her Quest For Purpose – Beyoncé launches Ivy Park x adidas". Elle. December 9, 2019. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. - ↑ Matthew Kish. Beyoncé's line with Adidas is reportedly struggling, driving home the challenge of filling the $2 billion hole left by Kanye West's Yeezy line. - ↑ Bloom, Madison (March 23, 2023). Beyoncé and Adidas Shutter Ivy Park Clothing Brand. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Fekadu, Mesfin (March 23, 2023). "Source: Beyoncé, Adidas Mutually Agree to Part Ways (Exclusive)". The Hollywood Reporter. Archived from the original on March 26, 2023. Retrieved March 26, 2023. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Leitch, Luke (March 24, 2023). "Beyoncé and Balmain's Olivier Rousteing Have Co-Designed a Collection—Introducing Renaissance Couture". Vogue. Archived from the original on September 20, 2023. Retrieved March 24, 2023. - ↑ The Survivor Foundation Established by Knowles and Rowland Families to Provide Transitional Housing for Hurricane Evacuees. Business Wire (2005). - ↑ Philanthropy. Music World. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Vena, Jocelyn (October 15, 2008). "Beyoncé's Survivor Foundation Helps Hurricane Ike Victims". MTV Newsroom. Archived from the original on October 17, 2008. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Vena, Jocelyn. "Beyonce's Survivor Foundation Helps Hurricane Ike Victims". MTV News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."The 10 Not-So-Publicized Times Jay Z and Beyonce Gave Back". Essence. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Guest Blogger: Pop Superstar Beyoncé on Phoenix House's New Beyoncé Cosmetology Center. Phoenix House. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Added to Haiti Telethon". Rap-Up. January 20, 2010. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 7, 2010. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyonce Donated a Ton of Money to a Houston Charity & Kept it Totally Under the Radar". Bustle. July 10, 2014. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Daly, Bridget (February 10, 2010). Beyoncé Named Face of Fashion for Haiti T-Shirt. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Conley, Mikaela (April 29, 2011). "Beyoncé Joins Michelle Obama's Initiative To Fight Childhood Obesity". ABC News. Archived from the original on May 2, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé Wants You to "Move Your Body"". Rap-Up. April 8, 2011. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved April 9, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Martin, Dan (May 6, 2011). "Beyoncé debuts charity single God Bless the USA". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved May 6, 2011. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Hart, Tina (August 20, 2012). "Beyoncé helps break 1bn social media milestone for World Humanitarian Day". Music Week. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved August 22, 2012. - ↑ World Humanitarian Day – 19 August. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Karmali, Sarah (February 28, 2013). "Beyoncé Leads New Gucci Empowerment Campaign". Vogue. Archived from the original on September 14, 2014. Retrieved March 12, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Talarico, Brittany (April 17, 2013). "Katy Perry, Blake Lively Join Beyoncé and Gucci to Empower Women". People. Archived from the original on April 24, 2013. Retrieved April 22, 2013. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.McKnight, Jenni (April 8, 2013). "Beyoncé reveals her biggest inspiration is her mother as she sees the 'best qualities' in everybody". Metro. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved February 16, 2015. - ↑ Cameron Diaz, Evan Rachel Wood, Florence Welch, Freida Pinto, Gwyneth Paltrow, Jada Pinkett Smith, John Legend, Julia Roberts, Kylie Minogue, Olivia Wilde, Ziggy Marley And Zoe Saldana Join Chime For Change Co Founders Beyoncé Knowles – Carter, Frida Giannini And Salma Hayek Pinault To Celebrate The Most Inspirational Girls And Women in Their Lives (May 15, 2013). - ↑ About: Miss A Meal. Miss A Meal. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé is Lending Her Voice for GOOD". Reuters. April 15, 2013. Archived from the original on June 22, 2013. Retrieved April 15, 2013. - ↑ charitybuzz. Beyonce.com (April 15, 2013). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Jay Z And Beyoncé Paid "Tens Of Thousands" To Bail Out Protesters, Activist Says". BuzzFeed News. May 18, 2015. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 15, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Cridlin, Jay. "Beyoncé preps for her Formation Tour with rehearsals in Tampa". Tampa Bay Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 15, 2020. - ↑ Strauss, Matthew (June 14, 2016). Beyoncé Donates $82,234 to Flint Water Crisis. - ↑ Beyoncé and Jay Z Donate $1.5 Million to the Black Lives Matter Movement. Good Worldwide (February 8, 2016). - ↑ Jay Z And Beyonce Donate 15 Million To Rebuild Haiti (October 10, 2016). - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content."Beyoncé launches BeyGOOD Houston to help with Hurricane Harvey relief efforts". Houston Chronicle. August 31, 2017. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 15, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Simpson, Fiona (September 9, 2017). "Beyonce serves lunch to Hurricane Harvey victims". Evening Standard. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 15, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Lang, Cady. "Blue Ivy and Beyoncé Teamed Up to Serve Meals to Hurricane Harvey". Time. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 15, 2020. - ↑ Beyonce sends $75,000 in mattresses to Houston. Young Hollywood. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.O'Connor, Roisin (September 29, 2017). "Mi Gente: Beyonce joins J Balvin for new mix in Puerto Rico and Mexico relief efforts – listen". The Independent. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 15, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Karasin, Ekin (April 24, 2020). "Beyonce donates $6million to 'communities of colour' amid coronavirus crisis". Metro. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Armecin, Catherine (April 30, 2020). "Beyoncé, Megan Thee Stallion Drop 'Savage' Remix For Houston Coronavirus Relief". International Business Times. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Spanos, Brittany (May 4, 2020). "Beyoncé's BeyGood, Tina Knowles Team Up for COVID-19 Testing Initiative". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Williams, Isla (July 10, 2020). "Beyonce teams up with NAACP to support black-owned businesses". Metro. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Kreps, Daniel (June 20, 2020). "Beyoncé Drops Surprise New Song 'Black Parade' on Juneteenth". Rolling Stone. Archived from the original on June 28, 2020. Retrieved September 3, 2020. - ↑ Richmond, Shayler (September 3, 2020). Beyoncé donates $1 million to small Black-owned businesses. TheGrio. - ↑ Page Module:Citation/CS1/styles.css has no content.Callum-Penso, Lillia (January 17, 2021). "Greenville business owner gets boost with grant from Beyoncé's BeyGOOD Foundation". The Greenville News. Archived from the original on October 27, 2021. Retrieved June 14, 2021. - ↑ My thoughts and prayers remain with our Nigerian brothers and sisters fighting to end SARS.. - ↑ BeyGOOD Impact Fund Housing Assistance. External links[] Template:Sister project links - Official website - Template:AllMusic - Template:Amazon Music artist - Template:Discogs artist - Beyoncé at IMDb Template:Beyoncé Template:Beyoncé songs Template:Navboxes top Template:Destiny's Child Template:The Carters Template:Navboxes top Template:American Music Award for Favorite Soul/R&B Female Artist Template:BET Award for Album of the Year Template:BET Award for Best Collaboration Template:BET Award for Best Female R&B Artist Template:BET Award for Video of the Year Template:BET Award for Video Director of the Year Template:BET Her Award Template:Brit International Artist Template:Brit International Female Template:Brit International Group Template:Broadcast Film Critics Association Award for Best Song Template:Billboard Millennium Award Template:GLAAD Vanguard Award Template:Grammy Award for Song of the Year Template:Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R&B Album Template:Grammy Award for Best Dance/Electronic Album Template:Grammy Award for Best Melodic Rap Performance Template:Grammy Award for Best Music Film Template:Grammy Award for Best Music Video Template:Grammy Award for Best Urban Contemporany Album Template:Grammy Award for Best Rap Performance Template:Grammy Award for Best Rap Song Template:IFPI Global Year-End Template:Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Award for Favorite Female Singer Template:Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Award for Favorite Song Template:Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award Template:MTV Europe Music Award for Best Female Template:MTV Europe Music Award for Best Live Act Template:MTV Europe Music Award for Best R&B Template:MTV Movie Award for Best Fight Template:MTV Video Music Award for Best Collaboration Template:MTV Video Music Award for Best Editing Template:MTV Video Music Award for Best Video with a Social Message Template:MTV Video Music Award for Video of the Year Template:NAACP Image Award for Entertainer of the Year Template:NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Duo or Group Template:NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Female Artist Template:NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Music Video Template:NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Song Template:Navboxes bottom Template:2000–2009 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Template:SI Swimsuit Cover Models Template:Billboard Year-End number one singles 2000–2019 Template:Navboxes bottom Template:Portalbar Lua error in Module:Authority_control at line 158: attempt to index field 'wikibase' (a nil value).


--- [Lemonade - Album by Beyoncé - YouTube Music] ---
14 captures 28 Sep 2021 - 29 Jan 2026 Dec JAN Feb 29 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20260129023031/https://music.youtube.com/browse/MPREb_Wj7vh2XYbSH Sorry, YouTube Music is not optimized for your browser. Check for updates or try Google Chrome. Get Chrome
