=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[PortSea Island, Challenged And Circunavigated – Daily News of ...]
Jun 20, 2012 · Anna Wardley successfully completed her solo swim around Portsea Island in 7 hours 20 minutes yesterday to become the first person to complete the 21-km (13-mile) route. The 13°C (55°C) waters in one of the UK’s busiest harbours invigorated the British adventurer, “ [The Five Island Swim Challenge] was absolutely amazing and I couldn’t have hoped for better conditions. Swimming through ...
URL: https://dailynewsofopenwaterswimming.com/portsea-island-challenged-and-circunavigated/

[Anna Wardley thanks Crewsaver for Five Island Swim Challenge support]
Anna is swimming around five islands over a two-year period to raise funds for the Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust, the Samaritans, Sail Africa and Toe in the Water. In 2012 she successfully swam around Dragonera off the coast of Mallorca and became the first person to swim solo around Portsea Island without a wetsuit.
URL: https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/167598/Five-Island-Swim-Challenge

[Anna Wardley successfully completes solo Isle of Wight swim]
Sep 21, 2013 — Anna Wardley, 37, from Gosport, completed the 60-mile (96.6km) route, external from Ryde Sands. It was expected to take 30 hours, but she did it ...
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-hampshire-24186159

[Endurance swimmer Anna Wardley completes Portsea Island challenge]
Jun 20, 2012 — Anna Wardley, from Gosport, completed the 13-mile (21km) route around the island in 7 hours, 20 minutes and 50 seconds. The record is subject to ...
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-hampshire-18521732

[THIS WEEK IN 1978: First solo swim around Portsea - The News]
Aug 10, 2017 · A Southsea man completed the first solo swim around Portsea Island, despite being stopped by a police launch because someone reported that a swimmer was drowning in Portsmouth Harbour.
URL: https://www.portsmouth.co.uk/news/this-week-in-1978-first-solo-swim-around-portsea-1090734


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [PortSea Island, Challenged And Circunavigated – Daily News of ...] ---
Anna Wardley successfully completed her solo swim around Portsea Island in 7 hours 20 minutes yesterday to become the first person to complete the 21-km (13-mile) route. The 13°C (55°C) waters in one of the UK’s busiest harbours invigorated the British adventurer, “[The Five Island Swim Challenge] was absolutely amazing and I couldn’t have hoped for better conditions. Swimming through Portsmouth Harbour past the HMS Warrior and the Spinnaker Tower felt incredible. In fact I had to be careful not to get too distracted. It was a fantastic challenge but it goes without saying that none of this would have been possible without the brilliant support from friends and family both on the water and on shore. Months of meticulous planning has gone into making this swim happen, so often the easy part is to turn up and swim, and with today’s conditions it was a pleasure.” In order to officially have her swim documented and certified, she had three observers from the British Long Distance Swimming Association accompany her throughout her circumnavigation of Portsea Island. Each kayaker carried a stopwatch to ensure that her swim time was recorded accurately and confirmed her gear and swimwear adhered to all the rules. The representatives of the charities that benefit from her efforts in the Five Islands Swim Challenge were very pleased with her effort and exploit. Tanya Brookfield, Director of Toe in the Water, said, “Anna has been taking on the most extraordinary challenges ever since I’ve known her so it’s no surprise that this is yet another huge success under her belt. Her tireless energy and enthusiasm is an inspiration to everyone who meets her and her impact on Toe in the Water is of even greater value than the funds she raises.” Craig Millar, Director of Sail Africa, remarked, “Another amazing accomplishment from Anna. From everyone at Sail Africa our biggest thanks and congratulations. She puts herself through tough challenges so young people have the opportunity to test themselves to their limits.” The Portsmouth Samaritans added, “Anna is a true inspiration and it is a great honour to be one of her chosen charities. All the volunteers at the Portsmouth branch wish her the very best of luck with the remainder of her Five Island Swim Challenge.” In her Five Island Swim Challenge over two years, Wardley is swimming around five islands covering a total of 150 miles to raise funds for the Samaritans, Toe in the Water and Sail Africa. Copyright © 2012 by Open Water Source


--- [Anna Wardley thanks Crewsaver for Five Island Swim Challenge support] ---
Anna Wardley thanks Crewsaver for Five Island Swim Challenge support by Crewsaver 21 Jan 2013 14:33 GMT Endurance swimmer Anna Wardley (left) presents Crewsaver's Managing Director Moya Johnson (centre) and General Manager Jon Crossland (right) with a framed photograph of her record setting 21-km swim around Portsea Island © Crewsaver Endurance swimmer Anna Wardley presented Crewsaver's Managing Director Moya Johnson (centre) and General Manager Jon Crossland with a framed photograph of her record setting 21-km swim around Portsea Island in June 2012 in recognition of their support of her Five Island Swim Challenge. Anna is swimming around five islands over a two-year period to raise funds for the Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust, the Samaritans, Sail Africa and Toe in the Water. In 2012 she successfully swam around Dragonera off the coast of Mallorca and became the first person to swim solo around Portsea Island without a wetsuit. This year she is swimming round Jersey in the Channel Islands, Tiree in the Inner Hebrides and the Isle of Wight to complete her Five Island Swim Challenge. For more information visit www.annawardley.com


--- [Anna Wardley successfully completes solo Isle of Wight swim] ---
A Hampshire woman has successfully completed her bid to swim solo round the Isle of Wight. Anna Wardley, 37, from Gosport, completed the 60-mile (96.6km) route, external from Ryde Sands. It was expected to take 30 hours, but she did it in 26 hours, 33 minutes and 28 seconds. It is part of a five-island challenge and follows completed swims around the island of Dragonera off Mallorca, Portsea and Jersey, last year. She abandoned her attempt to swim around the Isle of Tiree in the Inner Hebrides in August after she began hallucinating from the effects of the cold water, and was unable to breathe properly. Money raised during the five-island challenge will go to the Samaritans, Ellen MacArthur Cancer Trust and Sail Africa, which offers sailing courses for young people in South Africa. Kevin Murphy is officiating the attempt on behalf of the British Long Distance Swimming Association. He was the first person to swim round the island in 1971. Only three people have completed the feat with the last successful attempt in 1984. - Published20 September 2013 - Published14 August 2013 - Published20 June 2012 - Published3 April 2012


--- [Endurance swimmer Anna Wardley completes Portsea Island challenge] ---
An endurance swimmer has successfully completed what is believed to be the first non-stop solo swim around Portsea Island in Hampshire. Anna Wardley, from Gosport, completed the 13-mile (21km) route around the island in 7 hours, 20 minutes and 50 seconds. The record is subject to official ratification by the British Long Distance Swimming Association (BLDSA). It was part of a charity challenge to swim around five islands. "It was absolutely amazing and I couldn't have hoped for better conditions," Ms Wardley said. "Swimming through Portsmouth Harbour past the HMS Warrior and the Spinnaker Tower felt incredible. In fact I had to be careful not to get too distracted otherwise my support crew would have had stern words." Ms Wardley negotiated her way through busy Portsmouth Harbour with the help of an MoD Marine Police Unit escort. She said she kept herself energised by snacking on sweets and chocolate bars. Last month she completed a swim around the island of Dragonera off the south-west coast of Mallorca. She will complete the final three swims in her five-island challenge next year, with swims around Jersey, Tiree in the Inner Hebrides and the Isle of Wight. Money raised will go to the Samaritans, Toe in the Water, which helps injured servicemen take part in competitive sailing, and Sail Africa, which offers sailing courses for young people in South Africa. - Published3 April 2012 - Published19 March 2012 - Published13 September 2011


--- [THIS WEEK IN 1978: First solo swim around Portsea - The News] ---
THIS WEEK IN 1978: First solo swim around Portsea A Southsea man completed the first solo swim around Portsea Island, despite being stopped by a police launch because someone reported that a swimmer was drowning in Portsmouth Harbour. Brian Rann took less than six hours to complete his record attempt on the 14-mile course. His 14-year-old son, James, accompanied him in the water for more than an hour but dropped out at Portsbridge because he could not cope with swimming at his father’s slower pace. Advertisement Hide AdAdvertisement Hide AdMr Rann arrived back at Eastney after five hours and 50 minutes. The swim around Portsea had only been done once before – 12 years earlier, by a lifeguard team who took six-and-a-half hours. Mr Rann and his son were experienced distance swimmers.
