=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal - Wikipedia]
The Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal (Nepali: लोकतान्त्रिक समाजवादी पार्टी, lit. 'Democratic Socialist Party') is a former political party in Nepal. The party had a significant presence in Madhesh Province and Lumbini Province of Nepal. The party's election symbol was bicycle. [4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loktantrik_Samajwadi_Party,_Nepal

[Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal Election Result Election 2082 - Seats ...]
The Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal is a former political party in Nepal. The party had a significant presence in Madhesh Province and Lumbini Province of Nepal. The party's election symbol was bicycle. The party later merged into People's Socialist Party, Nepal on 11 January 2025
URL: https://election.nepsebajar.com/en/party/16/loktantrik-samajwadi-party-nepal

[Local level poll candidates receive election symbols]
Apr 30, 2022 · The CPN-UML has been given a sun as its election symbol, while Nepali Congress’s election symbol is a tree. Likewise, the EC has given election symbols of sickle and a hammer inside a circle to the CPN (Maoist Center), umbrella to Janata Samajwadi Party, bicycle to Loktantrik Samajwadi Party and pen to the CPN (Unified Socialist).
URL: https://nepalekhabar.com/2022/04/103660

[Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal - Reference.org]
The Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal is the tenth largest political party in Nepal, with a strong presence in Madhesh Province and Lumbini Province. Its election symbol is a bicycle. The party was registered with the Election Commission, Nepal on 18 August 2021. Led by president Mahantha Thakur, the party formed an alliance with the Nepali Congress as of August 2022.
URL: https://reference.org/facts/loktantrik_samajwadi_party_nepal/JkXGLCva

[Candidates to get election symbol today - risingnepaldaily.com]
Apr 30, 2022 · The CPN (UML) has been given a sun as its election symbol. Similarly, Nepali Congress's election symbol is a tree, CPN (Maoist Center)'s a sickle and a hammer inside the circle, Janata Samajwadi Party's an umbrella, Loktantrik Samajwadi Party's a bicycle and CPN (Unified Socialist)'s a pen.
URL: https://risingnepaldaily.com/news/10617


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal - Wikipedia] ---
The Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal (Nepali: लोकतान्त्रिक समाजवादी पार्टी, lit. 'Democratic Socialist Party') is a former political party in Nepal. The party had a significant presence in Madhesh Province and Lumbini Province of Nepal. The party's election symbol was bicycle. The party later merged into People's Socialist Party, Nepal on 11 January 2025.
The party was officially registered with the Election Commission, Nepal on 18 August 2021. Mahantha Thakur is the president of the new party. As of August 2022, the party shares an alliance with Nepali Congress.


--- [Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal Election Result Election 2082 - Seats ...] ---
No content


--- [Local level poll candidates receive election symbols] ---
Local level poll candidates receive election symbols Kathmandu / April 30: Candidates of local-level election have received their election symbol today. Those candidates, who registered their nomination on April 24 and 25 and have not withdrawn their candidacy, received their election symbol from the Office of Returning Officer across the country, according to the Election Commission (EC). Candidates from six political parties that have got national recognition will get their election symbol, said joint spokesperson for the Election Commission, Surya Prasad Aryal. The CPN-UML has been given a sun as its election symbol, while Nepali Congress’s election symbol is a tree. Likewise, the EC has given election symbols of sickle and a hammer inside a circle to the CPN (Maoist Center), umbrella to Janata Samajwadi Party, bicycle to Loktantrik Samajwadi Party and pen to the CPN (Unified Socialist). In the first row of the ballot paper, the EC has fixed UML’s election symbol sun, while NC’s tree has been put on the second row. Similarly, the Maoist Center’s sickle and hammer inside the circle has been put on the third row, JSP’s umbrella on the fourth row, LSP’s bicycle on the fifth row and Unified Socialist’s pen on the sixth row. Similarly, candidates from the parties without national recognition, but registered with the EC have received their respective election symbol and independent candidates have been asked to choose their election symbols from among those in the ballot paper. Independent mayor candidate for Kathmandu metropolis, Balen Shah has received ‘stick’ as his election symbol. Similarly, another independent mayoral candidate Sushil Thapa has chosen ‘cap’ as his election symbol while independent deputy mayoral candidate Rinku Shrestha has also chosen cap as her election symbol. Nearly 4,000 candidates have withdrawn their candidacy and 153,220 (95,253 male and 57,967 female) candidates have decided to contest the local level polls in various positions, said the EC.


--- [Loktantrik Samajwadi Party, Nepal - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Candidates to get election symbol today - risingnepaldaily.com] ---
Kathmandu, April 30 (RSS): Candidates for the local-level election scheduled for May 13 would get their election symbol today. Those candidates who registered their nominations on April 24 and 25 and have not withdrawn could get their election symbol from the office of Returning Officer across the country, according to the Election Commission. Candidates from six political parties that have gotten national recognition will get their election symbol, said a joint spokesperson for the Election Commission, Surya Prasad Aryal. The CPN (UML) has been given a sun as its election symbol. Similarly, Nepali Congress's election symbol is a tree, CPN (Maoist Center)'s a sickle and a hammer inside the circle, Janata Samajwadi Party's an umbrella, Loktantrik Samajwadi Party's a bicycle and CPN (Unified Socialist)'s a pen. In the first row of the ballot paper, the EC has fixed UML's election symbol sun, in the second row, NC's tree, in the third row, Maoist Center's sickle and hammer inside the circle, in the fourth row, JSP's umbrella, in the fifth row, LSP's bicycle and in the sixth row, Unified Socialist's pen. Similarly, those candidates from the parties without national recognition, but who have been registered with the EC, will get their respective parties' election symbols and independent candidates will be asked to choose their election symbols from among those on the ballot paper, said Aryal.
