=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Budshah Bridge - Wikipedia]
Budshah Bridge, locally also known as Budshah Kadal, is a concrete bridge located in the Srinagar city of the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It was first built in 1957 during the rule of Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad and is named after the 15th Century ruler of Kashmir, Zain-ul-Abidin, popularly known as Budshah (the Great King).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Budshah_Bridge

[Budshah Bridge - Wikiwand]
Budshah Bridge, locally also known as Budshah Kadal, is a concrete bridge located in the Srinagar city of the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It was first built in 1957 during the rule of Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad and is named after the 15th Century ruler of Kashmir, Zain-ul-Abidin, popularly known as Budshah.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Budshah_Bridge

[Budshah Bridge — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2]
Apr 18, 2025 · Budshah Bridge, locally also known as Budshah Kadal, is a concrete bridge located in the Srinagar city of the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It was first built in 1957 during the rule of Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad and is named after the 15th Century ruler of Kashmir, Zain-ul-Abidin, popularly known as Budshah (the Great King).
URL: https://wiki2.org/en/Budshah_Bridge

[Bridges in Srinagar - dukekashmirtravels.com]
The city of Srinagar is also known as the city of seven bridges. The bridges that connect one area to another. The Bridges in Srinagar are built over the Jhelum river starting from the AMIRA KADAL and ending at Safa Kadal. Basically, there are a total of eight bridges, one is known as Zero Bridge hence not counted in the main seven bridges.
URL: https://www.dukekashmirtravels.com/kashmir/quicklinks/bridges-in-srinagar

[Grokipedia: Budshah Bridge]
Learn more about Budshah Bridge on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Budshah_Bridge


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Budshah Bridge - Wikipedia] ---
Budshah Bridge, locally also known as Budshah Kadal, is a concrete bridge located in the Srinagar city of the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It was first built in 1957 during the rule of Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad and is named after the 15th Century ruler of Kashmir, Zain-ul-Abidin, popularly known as Budshah (the Great King).
The bridge is also known as Alamgir Bridge. It is located more than 100 metres downstream of Amira Kadal and handles most of the vehicular traffic from the Civil Secretariat to the Maulana Azad Road. In 2017, colourful fountains were installed on either side of the bridge as part of a beautification programme for the city.




--- [Budshah Bridge - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Budshah Bridge — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2] ---
No content


--- [Bridges in Srinagar - dukekashmirtravels.com] ---
Bridges in Srinagar The city of Srinagar is also known as the city of seven bridges. The bridges that connect one area to another. The Bridges in Srinagar are built over the Jhelum river starting from the AMIRA KADAL and ending at Safa Kadal. Basically, there are a total of eight bridges, one is known as Zero Bridge hence not counted in the main seven bridges. In the previous time, Amira Kadal was known as the first bridge and then there were six more bridges downstream this. Later on, one more bridge was built upstream from Amira Kadal. And it was named Zero Bridge so that the Amira Kadal could not lose its title of the first bridge. AMIRA KADAL The bridge of Amira Kadal is also known as the first bridge. It was built in 1774 and the constructions got completed in 1777. This bridge was built by the Afghan ruler Amir Khan Sher Jawan. This bridge remains busy during the daytime, as the locals make this place more crowded with their activities. It is followed by the Budshah bridge. HABA KADAL This bridge was built by Sultan Habib Shah in 1551. This bridge is named after Habba Khatoon. This bridge is one of the seven main and old bridges that are present in the city of Srinagar. It was also made of wooden poles and piles, but nowadays this old bridge is not in the proper use. Another bridge has been made and in 2015 the bridge opened for the public. FATEH KADAL This bridge was built by Sultan Fateh Shah in 1500 AD. It is one of the seven old Bridges in Srinagar. It is situated in the old city of Srinagar. The bridge carries all types of vehicles and people use this to cross over and make it easy for them to reach other areas by the means of this bridge. ZAINA KADAL This bridge was originally built by Sultan Zain-ul-Aabideen in 1500 AD. This bridge is situated in Shahr-e-Khaas. Historians say that it was a difficult nut to crack, logs of deodar were pinned in the river to make the strong base for the bridge. It took almost six years and three months to get completed. With time the bridge got renovated and the newly constructed one is concrete. AALI KADAL This bridge was the first that was made over the river Jhelum. It aws built by Sultan Ali Shah in 1413 and the construction got completed in 1420. After that, the bridge was opened to the public as well. With time many rulers renovated the bridge and a few years back a new concrete bridge was constructed. NAWAKADAL This bridge was originally built by Noor-ud-Din Bamzai in 1666 AD. This bridge is connected to the famous Nawakadal College. This bridge has witnessed many historic moments. After the renovation of this bridge during the regime of Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah, this bridge was burnt down and destroyed in 1981. But was reconstructed after some years. This bridge is followed by Safa Kadal. SAFA KADAL This bridge was built by Saif Khan during the regime of Aurangzeb. This one is known to be the oldest bridge. It is one of the oldest Bridges in Srinagar. With time it has also been renovated and turned in the concrete one. It connects the area of Eidgah with the Chattabal area.


--- [Grokipedia: Budshah Bridge] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.
