=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[1,800 receive degrees at commencement | MIT News | Massachusetts ...]
Jun 1, 1994 · His Highness the Aga Khan, who was admitted to MIT 40 years ago, finally made it to a graduation Friday-and in grand style, as speaker at the Institute's 128th commencement. In sunny but chilly weather more suitable to fall than spring, MIT awarded degrees to 1,824 seniors and graduate students in outdoor exercises at Killian Court before about 8,000 relatives. Because some students received ...
URL: https://news.mit.edu/1994/degrees-0601

[His Highness Karim Aga Khan IV - 1994 MIT Commencement Address]
His Highness Karim Aga Khan IV, Spiritual Leader of the Shia Ismaili Muslims, delivers the address at the 1994 MIT Commencement on the topic of the changing ...
URL: https://infinite.mit.edu/video/his-highness-karim-aga-khan-iv-1994-mit-commencement-address-5271994/

[Massachusetts Institute of Technology - AKDN]
May 27, 1994 · Commencement Speech by His Highness the Aga Khan at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA)
URL: https://the.akdn/en/resources-media/resources/speeches/massachusetts-institute-technology-his-highness-the-aga-khan

[1,750 to receive degrees at MIT commencement - MIT News]
May 11, 1994 · MIT will award degrees on Friday, May 27, to some 1,750 seniors and graduate students at its 128th commencement. About 8,000 relatives and guests will attend the scheduled outdoor exercises in Killian Court. The formal activities begin at 9:45am with the traditional academic procession leaving from the 77 Massachusetts Avenue entrance to the Institute. The procession will be led by the chief ...
URL: https://news.mit.edu/1994/commencement-0511

[His Highness the Aga Khan's 1994 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ...]
His Highness Karim Aga Khan IV, Spiritual Leader of the Shia Ismaili Muslims, gives the 1994 MIT Commencement Address. The Aga Kahn is the first Muslim to be...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PNWPZvQea74


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [1,800 receive degrees at commencement | MIT News | Massachusetts ...] ---
His Highness the Aga Khan, who was admitted to MIT 40 years ago, finally made it to a graduation Friday-and in grand style, as speaker at the Institute's 128th commencement. In sunny but chilly weather more suitable to fall than spring, MIT awarded degrees to 1,824 seniors and graduate students in outdoor exercises at Killian Court before about 8,000 relatives. Because some students received more than one degree, the total number of degrees-2,034-exceeded the number of students receiving them. Altogether 962 bachelor of science degrees and 1,072 advanced degrees were awarded. The advanced degrees included 234 doctorates, 820 master of science degrees and 18 engineer degrees. The degree recipients included 505 women. In the morning prior to the exercises, the MIT Corporation, the Institute's board of trustees, elected one life member, nine term members and an officer at its quarterly meeting. (See below.) In the afternoon, about 30 graduating cadets and midshipmen in MIT's Army, Air Force and Navy Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) units received their commissions at the frigate USS Constitution berthed at the Charlestown Navy Yard Historical Park. (See photo on page 3). The Aga Khan, spiritual leader of the Shia Ismaili Muslims and director of a network of development institutions working in Asia and Africa, told the graduates that the world must be prepared to draw upon the wisdom of three different cultures-those of "the ex-Communist world, the Muslim world and the Western world"-in solving the problems of modern society. (The full text of his adress appears on page 7). He also revealed that MIT had been his first choice when he applied to college, but that he attended Harvard, from which he graduated in 1958, in deference to his grandfather, the Aga Khan III, who preceded him. "In fact. I didn't even apply anywhere other than MIT and MIT accepted me on the basis of my grades," said the speaker, who succeeded his grandfather as Aga Khan at the age of 20. "When my grandfather told me I shouldn't enroll here, I was devastated. That really put the kibosh on my plans to study science." And he added, "You see, I learned Harvard English." MIT President Charles M. Vest, in his traditional charge to the graduates, called upon them to be "citizens of the world." "MIT is an American institution, and each of you is a citizen of some nation-for most of you, that nation is the United States of America," he said. "But MIT is also an institution of the world, and its greatness derives in large measure from its cosmopolitan nature and its connections throughout the world." (Dr. Vest's address appears on page 6). Dr. Vest noted that the Class of 1994 "is also my class," since the graduating seniors arrived at MIT in 1990 at about the same time he did as MIT's 15th president. The moment when he first met them as a group during their orientation week, he said, "was one of the most exhilarating of my life. "On that day we were all proud to have been selected to join the ranks of MIT. We shared in the exhilaration of becoming part of its intellectual and creative atmosphere. But to tell the truth, we were also a little apprehensive. Nonetheless, we knew that were all embarking on the next stage of a great adventure. "I said to you that day that I hoped you would accept me as a member of your class, and trusted that you would allow me to live and work among you. I also noted that I looked forward to the one other occasion when I would be standing before you in a formal setting. And that would be in Killian Court-at your graduation in the spring of 1994. "Well, we made it: here we are!" The graduates responded with applause and cheers. Caryl B. Brown of St. Petersburg, FL, president of the Graduate Student Council, delivered a salute to MIT from the graduate student body. Ann Chen of Lexington, MA, president of the Class of 1994, presented the senior class gift to Dr. Vest. Pledges over the next five years of about $43,000, a record amount, will be used to construct and equip a student information and box office-to be called The Source-on the first floor of the Stratton Student Center. The formal commencement activities began with the traditional academic procession, led by the chief marshal, Richard A. Jacobs of Northbrook, IL, 1993-94 president of the MIT Association of Alumni and Alumnae. Dr. Paul E. Gray, chairman of the MIT Corporation, presided at the exercises. In his closing remarks, he paid a "special welcome" to the World War II-torn 50th reunion Class of 1944, many of whose members did not get to attend their graduation ceremonies. "This class entered the Institute before the United States entered World War II, and may have had the expectation-not held by later wartime classes-of a normal completion of their undergraduate studies," he said. "For most members of the Class of 1944, this was not to be. The records of the Institute indicate that, of all wartime classes at MIT, the Class of 1944 may well have experienced the greatest disruption. Most who entered with this class did not receive their diplomas until after the war, if at all. Many did not return from the war. "Today, as you return to Tech for your 50th reunion, we extend a special welcome to you. May your participation in these Commencement ceremonies recognize and reaffirm your very special place in the history and the family of MIT." The invocation was given by the Rev. Scott Paradise, MIT Episcopal chaplain. (See Page 7). For the awarding of degrees, Dr. Vest presented diplomas to the bachelor of science degree recipients and also those receiving both bachelor of science and master of science degrees, while Provost Mark S. Wrighton gave out advanced degrees. The two lines of students approached the stage simultaneously, and the names were announced in an alternating pattern as the degrees were handed out. High spirits were in evidence as a few civil engineering graduates wore hard hats with tassels, another graduate carried his child on stage, and a number of graduates gestured to show profound relief at having the degrees in their hands. Meanwhile, balloons and soap bubbles occasionally rode the persistent breeze that at times lifted the sail-like cover over the stage Those receiving doctoral degrees already had been hooded in a special ceremony on the day before commencement in Rockwell Cage. MIT's newest doctoral degree recipients-some 375 altogether-received the colorful hoods that symbolize their achievement at a special ceremony May 26. Graduate School Dean Frank E. Perkins, who presided, told the graduates that completion of the doctorate "is one of the major goals to which any prospective scholar can aspire. But at MIT-with its traditional insistence on excellence, its deserved reputation for rigor, and its intention to attract and educate world-class scholars-completion of the doctorate is an occasion deserving of special recognition." Professor Perkins said it was important to acknowledge "just how essential your completion of the doctorate is to the world community. "In an age in which so much of society questions the value of advanced level education and operates on the misguided assumption that new knowledge can be created on demand, it is essential that some significant subset of the community retain its commitment to pursuit of the highest levels of academic achievement. We thank you for having chosen this path and for having preserved Following the commencement program, President Vest held a reception for graduates and their guests-and for alumni both of the 50th reunion Class of 1944 and the 25th reunion Class of 1969-at several locations in or near McDermott Court. A version of this article appeared in the June 1, 1994 issue of MIT Tech Talk (Volume 38, Number 35).


--- [His Highness Karim Aga Khan IV - 1994 MIT Commencement Address] ---
His Highness Karim Aga Khan IV - 1994 MIT Commencement Address AGA KHAN IV: President Vest, members of the Corporation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, distinguished members of the faculty, Mayor Reeves, happy graduates, even happier parents, and others gathered here today-- I am pleased and honored to be with you this morning. MIT has shown a standard of excellence in education and research that sets a benchmark for universities everywhere. You who've been at the Institute for years may be excused if you take this in stride. But for me, coming here for the first time in several years, the energy of the place is palpable. Actually, my reaction is somewhat personal. When, as a young man, I began to think about colleges, MIT was my first choice. In the end, I acceded to the advice of my grandfather, who favored Harvard. [LAUGHTER] In fact, I didn't even apply anywhere other than MIT. And MIT accepted me on the basis of my grades. They didn't even ask me to take an examination, which is good. Because I could hardly understand written English. When my grandfather told me I shouldn't enroll here, I was devastated. That really put the kibosh on my plans to study science. You see, I learned Harvard English. [LAUGHTER] Education has been important to my family for a long time. My forefathers founded Al-Azhar University in Cairo some 1,000 years ago at the time of the Fatimid Caliphate in Egypt. Discovery of knowledge was seen by those founders as an embodiment of religious faith and faith as reinforced by knowledge of workings of the creator's physical world. The form of universities has changed over those 1,000 years. But that reciprocity between faith and knowledge remains a source of strength. MIT has changed also over its 130 years. This university was initially designed to meet the needs of society in a newly industrialized world. As the world and its needs evolved, so has MIT's curriculum. Steadily, the emphasis on social sciences and humanities has expanded as the Institute has recognized increasingly that the range of technologies that are needed to solve societal problems goes far beyond those of engineering and natural sciences. The increased richness of education results in an increasingly versatile set of graduates. As I look out over those today who are here, I see that MIT has changed in other ways. The great continents of the world are now represented in your student body and in your faculty. So, too, are the great religions of the world. MIT seems prepared to take advantage of excellence from all quarters, a fact that is sure to reinforce the Institute's future strength. When I was thinking about the theme that I should choose for this talk, I considered first that commencements are occasions to reflect on general truths-- truths that will retain their validity over the course of your lives and over the wide range of intellectual interests that you graduates embody. But how is that search for generality to be squared with the very particular point in time that today represents? You and I are here, in a real sense, only because 1994 finds MIT and the world at distinctive stages of their evolution. Still, the particular can provide insight into the general. So my comments today will draw on the particular in the hope of saying something of value about the general. I shall talk today about encounters. Encounters. When two people meet, or two particles, or two cultures, in that crucial moment of interaction, the results of an encounter are determined. In the simplest of encounters-- say, with two billiard balls-- the outcome is a predictable result of position, velocity, and mass. But the encounters that interest me most are not so simple. In the encounters of people and cultures, much depends on the path that each has taken to that point. These are not stochastic processes. The subjects have histories. The encounter has complexity and rich dimensionality. The result of an encounter between two people or between two cultures is shaped by the assumptions of each, by their respective goals and, perhaps more directly relevant to a university, by the repertoire of responses that each has learned. Encounters, therefore, have aspects of both the general and the specific. What makes our current time distinctive are the new combinations of people and cultures that are participating in these encounters. Too, ongoing social and political changes illustrate the reasons for these new combinations. The first is the collapse of communism in the USSR and Eastern Europe. You graduates may feel that you have been at MIT forever. But it really is remarkable that the overturning of the communist world has occurred since most of you started your studies here. You go out into a world where the rules are different from those it held when you entered. Colonialism is moribund. No longer is it enough to decide whether one is aligned with communism or capitalism in a bipolar world. Now a full range of complicated choices is opened up to people in the developed and the developing world alike. A massive break on change has been released. The potential for creative action, creative encounters, is now much enhanced. This change is a work in progress, however. The potential of the moment must be seized, for conditions for change may not always be so propitious. There is the real possibility that the Soviet Union may reconstitute itself if the social upheaval that accompanies political disintegration and economic reform is allowed to become less tolerable than the strictures of a totalitarian state. While these shocks reverberate from the ex-communist block, profound changes of a very different character are to be found in the Islamic world. Here the changes are in both perception and reality. And both of them are works in progress too. The Islamic world is remarkably poorly understood by the West, almost terra incognita. Even now, one sees pervasive images in the West. The caricature of Muslim is as either oil sheiks or unruly fundamentalists. The Islamic world is, in fact, a rich and changing tapestry, which the West would do well to understand. The economic power of the Islamic world is increasing, not so much because of Middle Eastern oil, but because of the rapid growth of newly industrializing countries like Malaysia and Indonesia. Its population is increasing and already represents nearly one quarter of the world's total. It is remarkably diverse-- ethnically, economically, politically-- in its interpretations of its own faith. The Muslim world can no longer be thought of as a subset of the developing world. Islam is well represented in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Western Europe. And that presence is growing. The religious diversity of Islam is important and misunderstood by most non-Muslims. This is not the forum to go into the multiple reasons for this misunderstanding. But for many in the West, the first awareness that there were two major branches of Islam, Shia and Sunni, only came with the Iranian Revolution. That represents a superficiality of understanding that would be as though we Muslims only just learned that there were two branches of Christianity, Protestant and Catholic, and had no understanding of the Reformation, the authority of the church, all the ideas that led to the proliferation of Protestant sects in the 16th and 17th century, or as though we thought that most Americans were Branch Davidians. In the face of such lack of knowledge about one quarter of the world's population, one may reasonably ask what the role of the university is in setting this straight. It seems clear to me that, at the most basic level, a university is responsible for helping its students to learn not only the simplifying principles that the various learned disciplines have found useful in understanding our world, but also the rich complexity of history, and language, and culture that make real life problems interesting and difficult. MIT now teaches both of these lessons well and vigorously. But it seems not always to have done so. Indeed, I am told that at the opening of MIT in 1865, one local newspaper reported with a note of triumph that the creation of MIT, quote, "sealed the fate of that system by which our youth waste the best portion of student life in burrowing into the grammars and dictionaries of races less enlightened than their own." Unquote. MIT has clearly come around to thinking that those less enlightened races have something to teach. And that teaching helps the University fulfill its potential. I would argue, however, that the University's potential is met not just in developing the intelligence of its students, but also in bringing them to understand the importance of engaging themselves in solving the problems of the world. The great political and social changes around us are creating opportunities for service that promise to be deeply rewarding to persons with the engaged intelligence to be successful at important but difficult work. Let me take one example to illustrate the challenging encounters to which today's graduates might apply their intelligence. Tajikistan is a mountainous country in Central Asia of five million people more than 90% Muslim. As a republic in the former Soviet Union bordering China and Afghanistan, it had a strategic importance that dwarfed its natural resources. The Soviet Union, therefore, invested heavily in Tajikistan, building roads and power stations, supplementing food supplies and equipment, developing the educational health systems. The result was a highly educated, sophisticated, but largely rural population that managed its affairs well at home by the rules of the game at that time and provided well developed human resources for export to other parts of the Soviet Union. With the fall of the Soviet Union, things changed for Tajikistan. Subsidies which had provided most of the republic's budget and, for the remoter parts, 80% of the food supply were cut off. The result has been hunger, shortages of fuel and clothing, and deep uncertainty about the future. Long suppressed ethnic tensions between indigenous Tajiks, neighboring Uzbeks and Kyrgyz, and immigrant Russians, amongst others, became more evident as groups jostled for political and economic control. Religion emerged from private houses, where it had been practiced publicly for 60 years, to become a manifest force. Tajikistan has become the focus of one of the most interesting encounters of the day. It is here and in other Central Asian republics that the three great cultures encounter each other-- the communist world, the Muslim world, and the Western world. It is here that those three cultures could forge a success that would contrast starkly with the brutal failure in Bosnia. The result of the encounter in Tajikistan may determine much about the way history unfolds over the coming decades. So it is worth thinking a bit about the stance that each of these cultures might take in preparing for this encounter. That thought might lead one to ask what it would take for this or any encounter to be constructive. I suggest that there are four prerequisites for success. For each of the cultures, the result should, first, draw on its strengths and, second, be consistent with its goals. Third, the result should be a sustainable improvement in the current situation. And fourth, the transition should be humane. Each of these three cultures has something to bring to the solution of the problems of Tajikistan. The West has many strengths. But prominent among them are science and democracy, with their public mechanisms for self correction, and also private institutions, liberal economics, and a recognition of fundamental human rights. The Muslim world offers deep roots in a system of values emphasizing service, charity, a sense of common responsibility, and denying what it sees to be the false dichotomy between religious and secular lives. The ex-communist world, although it failed economically, made important investments in social welfare with particular emphasis on the status of women and was able to achieve in Tajikistan impressive social cohesion. Just how to combine these competencies to solve Tajikistan's problems is not clear. But if the outcome is to be sustainable, it seems necessary to concentrate resources on the development of private institutions, of accountable public institutions, and of human potential. But how to get from here to there without inflicting cruel damage on the people already buffeted by shortages and change? Again, the way is not entirely clear. But one should strive to retain the powerful ties of mutual support that, in different ways, bind individuals together in Muslim and communist societies. And one should see that the impressive gains in health and education are not lost in the transition. For it would be unconscionable to allow, for example, the equality of men and women that has been achieved in Tajikistan over the last 60 years to be erased in the transition to a market economy. These are the prerequisites that I hope the representatives of these three important cultures will keep in mind as they have their encounter over Tajikistan. If the encounter of the Muslim world, the West, and the ex-communist world takes account of the need for each to draw on its own strengths, to be consistent with its goals, to strive for a sustainable, improved outcome, and to ensure a humane transition, then the encounter will have been as successful as it is important. Indeed, the importance of Tajikistan has, if anything, increased in recent years, as events in neighboring countries continue to remind us. Turning back to today's graduates, I hope that these four prerequisites applied equally to the encounter that you are just completing with MIT. Knowing the quality of faculty and students here, I have no doubt that the encounter between you and the faculty has drawn on your respective strengths. I hope each of you kept consistent with your goals, even as they may have evolved over your time here. The quality and sustainability of the outcome will be determined over the course of your lives. But reading the smiles amongst the graduates, I judge that the transition, your time at MIT, must have been tolerably humane. In conclusion, I would recall the words of former MIT president James Killian, Jr. Quote, "We need better linkages between science and humanities, with the object of fusing the two into a broad humanism that rests upon both science and the liberal arts and that does not weaken either. We need bifocal vision to thread our way among the problems of modern society." Unquote. That need to use the power of complimentary academic disciplines remains true today. What is now clear is the need, also, to draw on the wisdom of different cultures in solving those problems. Thank you. And please accept my best wishes for a lifetime of constructive encounters. Thank you.


--- [Massachusetts Institute of Technology - AKDN] ---
By His Late Highness Aga Khan IV, Cambridge, Massachussetts (USA) · 27 May 1994 · 10 min President Vest, Members of the Corporation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Distinguished Members of the Faculty, Mayor Keeves, Happy graduates, even happier parents, and others gathered here today, I am pleased and honoured to be with you this morning. MIT has shown a standard of excellence in education and research that sets a benchmark for universities, everywhere. You who have been at the Institute for years may be excused if you take this in stride, but for me, coming here for the first time in several years, the energy of the place is palpable. Education has been important to my family for a long time. My forefathers founded Al Azhar University in Cairo some 1000 years ago, at the time of the Fatimid Caliphate in Egypt. Discovery of knowledge was seen by those founders as an embodiment of religious faith, and faith as reinforced by knowledge of workings of the Creator's physical world. The form of universities has changed over those 1000 years, but that reciprocity between faith and knowledge remains a source of strength. MIT has changed also over its 130 years. This university was initially designed to meet the needs of society in a newly industrialised world. As the world and its needs have evolved, so has MIT's curriculum. Steadily the emphasis on social sciences and humanities has expanded, as the Institute has recognised increasingly that the range of "technologies" that are needed to solve societal problems goes far beyond those of engineering and the natural sciences. The increased richness of education results in an increasingly versatile set of graduates. As I look out over those today who are here, I see that MIT has changed in other ways. The great continents of the world are now represented in your student body and in your faculty. So, too, are the great religions of the world. MIT seems prepared to take advantage of excellence from all quarters, a fact that is sure to reinforce the Institute's future strength. When I was thinking about the theme that I should choose for this talk, I considered first that Commencements are occasions to reflect on general truths, truths that will retain their validity over the course of your lives and over the wide range of intellectual interests that you graduates embody. But how is that search for generality to be squared with the very particular point in time that today represents? You and I are here, in a real sense, only because 1994 finds MIT and the world at distinctive stages of their evolution. Still, the particular can provide insight into the general, so my comments today will draw on the particular, in the hope of saying something of value about the general. I shall talk today about encounters. Encounters. When two people meet. Or two particles. Or two cultures. In that crucial moment of interaction the results of an encounter are determined. In the simplest of encounters -- say, with two billiard balls -- the outcome is a predictable result of position, velocity and mass. But the encounters that interest me most are not so simple. In the encounters of people and cultures, much depends on the path that each has taken to that point. These are not stochastic processes. The subjects have histories. The encounter has complexity and rich dimensionality. The result of an encounter between two people or between two cultures is shaped by the assumptions of each, by their respective goals, and -- perhaps most directly relevant to a university -- by the repertoire of responses that each has learned. Encounters therefore have aspects of both the general and the specific. What makes our current time distinctive are the new combinations of people and cultures that are participating in these encounters. Two ongoing social and political changes illustrate the reasons for these new combinations. The first is the collapse of Communism in the USSR and Eastern Europe. You graduates may feel that you have been at MIT forever, but it really is remarkable that the overturning of most of the Communist world has occurred since most of you started your studies here. You go out into a world where the rules are different from those that held when you entered. Colonialism is moribund. No longer is it enough to decide whether one is aligned with Communism or Capitalism in a bipolar world. Now a full range of complicated choices is opened up to people in the developed and the developing world alike. A massive brake on change has been released. The potential for creative action, for creative encounters, is now much enhanced. This change is a work in progress, however. The potential of the moment must be seized, for conditions for change may not always be propitious. There is the real possibility that the Soviet Union may reconstitute itself, if the social upheaval that accompanies political disintegration and economic reform is allowed to become less tolerable than the strictures of a totalitarian state. While these shocks reverberate from the ex-Communist bloc, profound changes of a very different character are to be found in the Islamic world. Here the changes are in both perception and reality, and both of them are works in progress, too. The Islamic world is remarkably poorly understood by the West -- almost terra incognita. Even now, one sees pervasive images in the West that caricature Muslims as either oil sheikhs or unruly fundamentalists. The Islamic world is in fact a rich and changing tapestry, which the West would do well to understand. The economic power of the Islamic world is increasing, not so much because of Middle Eastern oil but because of the rapid growth of newly industrialised countries like Malaysia and Indonesia. Its population is increasing, and already represents nearly one-quarter of the world's total. It is remarkably diverse -- ethnically, economically, politically and in its interpretation of its own faith. The Muslim world can no longer be thought of as a subset of the developing world. Islam is well represented in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Western Europe -- and that presence is growing. The religious diversity of Islam is important, and misunderstood by most non-Muslims. This is not the forum to go into the multitude reasons for this misunderstanding. But, for many in the West, the first awareness that there were two major branches of Islam -- Shia and Sunni -- came only with the Iranian revolution. That represents a superficiality of understanding that would be as though we Muslims only just learned that there were two branches of Christianity -- Protestant and Catholic -- and had no understanding of the Reformation, the authority of the Church or the ideas that led to the proliferation of Protestant sects in the 16th and early 17th century. Or as though we thought that most Americans were Branch Davidians. In the face of such lack of knowledge about one-quarter of the world's population, one may reasonably ask what the role of the university is in setting this straight. It seems clear to me that at the most basic level the university is responsible for helping its students to learn not only the simplifying principles that the various learned disciplines have found useful in understanding our world, but also the rich complexity -- of history and language and culture -- that make real life problems interesting and difficult. MIT now teaches both of these lessons well, and vigorously, but it seems not always to have done so. Indeed I am told that at the opening of MIT, in 1865, one local newspaper reported with a note of triumph that the creation of MIT (quote) "sealed the fate....of that system by which our youth waste the best portion of student life in burrowing into the grammars and dictionaries of races less enlightened than their own...." (unquote) MIT has clearly come round to thinking that those "less enlightened races" have something to teach, and that teaching helps the university fulfill its potential. I would argue, however, that the university's potential is met not just in developing the intelligence of its students but also in bringing then to understand the importance of engaging themselves in solving the problems of the world. The great political and social changes around us are creating opportunities for service that promise to be deeply rewarding to persons with the engaged intelligence to be successful at important but difficult work. Let me take one example to illustrate the challenging encounters to which today's graduates might apply their intelligence. Tajikistan is a mountainous country in Central Asia of 5 million people, more than 90% Muslim. As a republic in the former Soviet Union bordering China and Afghanistan, it had a strategic importance that dwarfed its natural resources. The Soviet Union therefore invested heavily in Tajikistan, building roads and power stations, supplementing food supplies and equipment, developing the educational and health systems. The result was a highly educated, sophisticated but largely rural population that managed its affairs well at home -- by the rules of the game at that time -- and provided well-developed human resources for export to other parts of the Soviet Union. With the fall of the Soviet Union, things changed for Tajikistan. Subsidies, which had provided most of the Republic's budget and, for the remoter parts, 80% of the food supply, were cut off. The result has been hunger, shortages of fuel and clothing and deep uncertainty about the future. Long suppressed ethnic tensions -- between indigenous Tajiks, neighbouring Uzbeks and Kirghiz and immigrant Russians, among others -- became more evident as groups jostled for political and economic control. Religion emerged from private houses, where it had been practiced covertly for sixty years, to become a manifest force. Tajikistan has become the focus of one of the most interesting encounters of the day. It is here, and in the other Central Asian Republics, that the three great cultures encounter each other: the ex-Communist world, the Muslim world, and the Western world. It is here that those three cultures could forge a success that would contrast starkly with the brutal failure in Bosnia. The result of the encounter in Tajikistan may determine much about the way history unfolds over the coming decades, so it is worth thinking a bit about the stance that each of these cultures might take in preparing for this encounter. That thought might lead one to ask what it would take for this, or any, encounter to be constructive. I suggest that there are four prerequisites for success. For each of the cultures, the result should, first, draw on its strengths and, second, be consistent with its goals. Third, the result should be a substantial improvement in the current situation. And fourth, the transition should be humane. Each of these three cultures has something to bring to the solution of the problems of Tajikistan. The West has many strengths, but prominent among them are science and democracy (with their public mechanisms for self-correction) and also private institutions, liberal economics, and a recognition of fundamental human rights. The Muslim world offers deep roots in a system of values, emphasising service, charity and a sense of common responsibility, and denying what it sees to be the false dichotomy between religious and secular lives. The ex-Communist world, although it failed economically, made important investments in social welfare, with particular emphasis on the status of women, and was able to achieve in Tajikistan impressive social cohesion. These are a powerful array of strengths and goals. Just how to combine them to solve Tajikistan's problems is not clear. But if the outcome is to be sustainable, it seems necessary to concentrate resources on the development of private institutions, of accountable public institutions, and of human potential. But how to get from here to there without inflicting cruel damage on a people already buffeted by shortages and change? Again, the way is not entirely clear, but one should strive to retain the powerful ties of mutual support that -- in different ways -- bind individuals together in Muslim and Communist societies. And one should see that the impressive gains in health and education are not lost in the transition, for it would be unconscionable to allow, for example, the equality of men and women that has been achieved in Tajikistan over the last sixty years to be erased in the transition to a market economy. These are the prerequisites that I hope the representatives of these three important cultures will keep in mind as they have their encounter over Tajikistan. If the encounter of the Muslim world, the West and the ex-Communist world takes account of the need for each to draw on its own strengths, to be consistent with its goals, to strive for a sustainable, improved outcome and to ensure a humane transition, then the encounter will have been as successful as it is important. Indeed, the importance of Tajikistan has, if anything, increased in recent years, as events in neighbouring countries continue to remind us. Turning back now to today's graduates, I hope that these four prerequisites applied equally to the encounter that you are just completing with MIT. Knowing the quality of faculty and students here, I have no doubt that the encounter between you and the faculty has drawn on your respective strengths. I hope each of you kept consistent with your goals, even as they may have evolved over your time here. The quality and sustainability of the outcome will be determined over the course of your lives. But reading the smiles among the graduates, I judge that the transition -- your time in MIT -- must have been tolerably humane. In conclusion, I would recall the words of former MIT President James Killian Jr (quote) "We need better linkages between science and the humanities, with the object of fusing the two into a broad humanism that rests upon both science and the liberal arts and that does not weaken either. We need bifocal vision to thread our way among the problems of modern society." (unquote) That need to use the power of complementary academic disciplines remains true today. What is now clear is the need also to draw on the wisdom of different cultures in solving those problems. Thank you, and please accept my best wishes for a lifetime of constructive encounters.


--- [1,750 to receive degrees at MIT commencement - MIT News] ---
MIT will award degrees on Friday, May 27, to some 1,750 seniors and graduate students at its 128th commencement. About 8,000 relatives and guests will attend the scheduled outdoor exercises in Killian Court. The formal activities begin at 9:45am with the traditional academic procession leaving from the 77 Massachusetts Avenue entrance to the Institute. The procession will be led by the chief marshal, Richard A. Jacobs of Northbrook, II, 1993-94 president of the MIT Association of Alumni and Alumnae. The commencement program, starting at 10am, will feature The Aga Khan, spiritual leader of the Shia Ismaili Muslims, as the principal speaker. Through private philanthropy, and following a family tradition of service in international affairs, he has enabled the very poor to enhance their lives in countries where the Ismailis live-largely the developing nations of Asia, Africa and the Middle East, but also Europe and North America. These efforts are taking place in the areas of primary health care, education, housing and social and economic development. In this role, the Aga Khan upholds Islamic culture and values while building bridges between the western and Muslim societies. He is the first Muslim commencement speaker at MIT. MIT President Charles M. Vest also will speak, giving his charge to the graduates. Dr. Paul E. Gray, chairman of the MIT Corporation, will preside at the exercises. The invocation will be given by Rev. Scott Paradise, Episcopal chaplain at MIT. Following the Aga Khan's speech, Caryl B. Brown of St. Petersburg, FL, president of the Graduate Student Council, will deliver a salute to MIT from the graduate student body. Ann Chen of Lexington, MA, president of the Class of 1994, then will present the senior class gift to Dr. Vest, who will then give the charge. For the awarding of some 2,000 degrees (a number of graduates get more than one), Dr. Vest will present diplomas to the bachelor of science degree recipients and also those receiving both bachelor of science and master of science degrees, while Provost Mark S. Wrighton will give out advanced degrees. The two lines of students will approach the stage simultaneously, and the names will be announced in an alternating pattern as the degrees are conferred. Those receiving their doctoral degrees on Friday already will have been hooded in a special ceremony on the day before commencement, Thursday, May 26, in Rockwell Cage. At that ceremony, department heads or their representatives will assist the School deans in hooding the degree recipients. The departments then will hold receptions for the graduates and their guests. Following the commencement program, President Vest will hold a reception for graduates and their guests, and for alumni/ae both of the 50th reunion Class of 1944 and the 25th reunion Class of 1969, at several locations in or near McDermott Court. Only severe weather will cause a change in plans for the commencement festivities. In that event, information will be available on commencement morning through radio announcements and by calling either 253-SNOW for a recorded message or the Information Center at 253-4795. Arrangements have been made for a backup program in the Rockwell Cage open to graduating students, faculty and participants in the ceremony-but not families and friends, because of limited space. Families and friends could view a closed-circuit telecast of the ceremony at several locations. Following the ceremony, bachelor of science degrees would be awarded by President Vest in the Johnson Athletics Center, while advance degrees would be distributed by School deans at five different locations. A second important event awaits some of the graduates, relatives and guests on commencement day. At 4:30pm on Friday afternoon, a commissioning ceremony will be held for about 30 graduating cadets and midshipmen in MIT's Army, Air Force and Navy Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) units alongside the historic frigate USS Constitution at the Charlestown Navy Yard Historical Park. The speaker will be Air Force Secretary Sheila Widnall, former MIT associate provost and professor of aeronautics and astronautics who is on leave from the Institute. A version of this article appeared in the May 11, 1994 issue of MIT Tech Talk (Volume 38, Number 32).


--- [His Highness the Aga Khan's 1994 Massachusetts Institute of Technology ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
