=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History and Mission - The Bee Conservancy]
The Honeybee Conservancy was founded in 2009 by Guillermo Fernandez in response to the news that bees across the globe were in crisis. In the fall of 2020, The Honeybee Conservancy relaunched as The Bee Conservancy to better capture our work protecting all bees and securing environmental and food justice through education, research, habitat creation, and advocacy. As a child immigrant from ...
URL: https://thebeeconservancy.org/history-and-mission/

[The Bee Conservancy | BEESynergy]
The Honeybee Conservancy was founded in 2009 by Guillermo Fernandez in response to the news that bees across the globe were in crisis. In fall of 2020, The Honeybee Conservancy relaunched as The Bee Conservancy to better capture our work protecting all bees and securing environmental and food justice through education, research, habitat creation, and advocacy. As a child immigrant from Cuba ...
URL: https://beesynergy.org/info/the-bee-conservancy/

[Earth Day 2020 Doodle - Google Doodles]
Special thanks to The Honeybee Conservancy for their close partnership on this project. Below, Founder and Executive Director Guillermo Fernandez shares his personal thoughts behind the Doodle and what you can do to help save bees while social distancing: I immigrated to the U.S. from Cuba at the age of one. The neighborhood I grew up in was a crowded, urban area where one-third of the multi ...
URL: https://doodles.google/doodle/earth-day-2020/

[Bee Conservancy: Free Kids' and Classroom Resources]
The Honeybee Conservancy was founded in 2009 by Guillermo Fernandez in response to the news that bees across the globe were in crisis. In fall of 2020, The Honeybee Conservancy relaunched as The Bee Conservancy to better capture our work protecting all bees and securing environmental and food justice through education, research, habitat creation, and advocacy. As a child immigrant from Cuba ...
URL: https://www.commonword.ca/ResourceView/82/27564

[Advocacy - Green Translations Services]
The Honeybee Conservancy was founded in 2009 by Guillermo Fernandez in response to the news that bees across the globe were in crisis. In fall of 2020, The Honeybee Conservancy relaunched as The Bee Conservancy to better capture our work protecting all bees and securing environmental and food justice through education, research, habitat creation, and advocacy. As a child immigrant from Cuba ...
URL: https://www.green-translations.com/advocacy/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History and Mission - The Bee Conservancy] ---
No content


--- [The Bee Conservancy | BEESynergy] ---
No content


--- [Earth Day 2020 Doodle - Google Doodles] ---
Apr 22, 2020 Earth Day 2020 This Doodle’s Key Themes See what all the buzz is about in today’s interactive Earth Day Doodle, made in collaboration with The Honeybee Conservancy based in New York! Guide your bee to pollinate flowers while learning fun facts about bees and our planet that they help to sustain. Special thanks to The Honeybee Conservancy for their close partnership on this project. Below, Founder and Executive Director Guillermo Fernandez shares his personal thoughts behind the Doodle and what you can do to help save bees while social distancing: I immigrated to the U.S. from Cuba at the age of one. The neighborhood I grew up in was a crowded, urban area where one-third of the multi-ethnic community lived in poverty. Finding fresh fruit or vegetables to eat was next to impossible: the nearest supermarket mostly stocked processed foods, and our local restaurants were all fast food chains. There wasn’t a tree or garden in sight; the only park was full of concrete. We lived in a food desert, and it took a toll on the community. Rampant health issues like obesity, diabetes, and asthma were largely the result of poor nutrition and a degraded environment. We had a distressingly low level of “food literacy” — knowing where food comes from and how to eat a balanced diet. The underfunded education system and limited green spaces amplified the problem: there were no pathways to learn. My situation wasn’t unique — in the U.S. alone, 13.5 million people live in food deserts, and 30 million suffer from food insecurity. So, I started The Honeybee Conservancy in 2009 for two key reasons: First, I wanted to help save the bees, who pollinate 1 in 3 bites of food we eat and are vital to healthy ecology. There are 20,000 species of bees around the world who do this essential work. In North America, currently 1 in 4 of the 4,000 native bee species are at risk of extinction. On a larger scale, the world’s survival depends on theirs. Second, I wanted to find ways to empower underserved communities like the one I grew up in to produce healthy food and build green spaces. Our flagship program Sponsor-a-Hive gives honeybee hives and native bee homes to organizations ranging from gardens to schools. By alleviating financial and educational barriers (keeping honeybee hives is a costly investment that requires training), we create access to resources that in turn produce food, improve the environment, and bring people together. What we love about today’s Google Doodle is how it captures the impact a single bee has on the plants and habitats it visits. Imagine then, the pollinating power that trillions (yes, trillions!) of bees have on ecosystems around the world! Today’s Doodle also reminds us all of how small actions performed by individuals everywhere add up to big results. And while beekeeping may be not be for everyone, there are so many easy ways to help save bees, even while social distancing in today’s world: - 1. Support your local beekeeper. When purchasing honey and beeswax products, choose locally-made options to invest in local beekeepers, who sustainably raise bees and bolster the community. - 2. Donate time or funds to local environmental groups. Bees are part of a complex ecosystem, and contributions to organizations that support any conservation effort will help strengthen the environment. - 3. Make safe havens for native bees. Most native bees have a solitary lifestyle: 30% live in holes inside trees, and 70% live underground. Give them shelter by providing exposed, undisturbed soil or nesting boxes that you can buy or make yourself. - 4. Create a bee bath. Fill a shallow bird bath or bowl with clean water, and arrange stones inside so that they poke out of the water. Bees will land on the stones to drink on breaks from foraging and pollinating. - 5. Plant a pollinator garden. Diversify sources of bee nutrition while beautifying spaces with pollinator-friendly plants. Make a garden in spaces ranging from window boxes to full yards, and consider using a mix of multi-season blooms to provide year-round sustenance. There’s no sweeter feeling than knowing you’ve helped save the bees. Learn more here about honeybees, native bees, and ways you can help. At the very least, we hope you’ll swarm over to today’s Google Doodle to learn more about our helpful, winged friends! Earth Day Doodle Team Q&A Today’s Doodle art was led by Doodler Gerben Steenks, with engineering by Doodlers Jacob Howcroft & Stephanie Gu. Below, they share some thoughts on the making of the Doodle: Q: What was your approach for this Doodle? A: The most fun challenge for this Doodle was to generate an infinite world. The player can keep pollinating forever, so we needed to create an environment that was randomly generated, but still felt natural. Q: What was a technical hurdle you ran into, and how did you resolve it? A: Since the game goes on as long as you want it to, you can end seeing thousands of flowers, trees, and bushes. Optimizing our code to make sure we could include all this content was definitely challenging! Q: What do you hope people will take away from this Doodle? A: We hope people understand the importance of bees to the earth and to humanity. For those who want to take action, anyone can have a positive impact by growing pollen-producing plants! Share the buzz on Earth Day! Search for ”GoogleDoodles” in Gboard, GIF Keyboard by Tenor, or the GIF search in your favorite social apps. EARTH DAY DOODLE 2020 TEAM Lead Artist | Gerben Steenks Engineering | Jacob Howcroft, Stephanie Gu Producer | Colin Duffy UX Design | Diana Tran Music & Sound Design | Todd Baker Marketing | Perla Campos, Grace Chen Business Affairs Lead & Partnerships | Madeline Belliveau Doodle Team Lead | Jessica Yu, Brian Kaas 🐝 🐝 🐝 SPECIAL THANKS TO OUR PARTNERS Executive Director | Guillermo Fernandez Managing Director | Rebecca Louie Where this Doodle appeared Discover more Doodles by color Did you know? The very first Doodle launched as an “out of office” message of sorts when company founders Larry and Sergey went on vacation. Learn MoreDid you know? The first Doodle launched in 1998, before Google was officially incorporated. Learn MoreDid you know? The first same day Doodle was created in 2009 when water was discovered on the moon. Learn MoreDid you know? Doodle for Google student contest winners have gone on to become professional artists Learn MoreDid you know? The time it takes from sketch to launch for a Doodle varies widely: some have taken years and others just a few hours! Learn MoreDid you know? Hundreds of Doodles launch around the world every year. Often, several different ones are live in different places at the same time! Learn MoreDid you know? Our most frequently recurring Doodle character is Momo the Cat - named after a real-life team pet! Learn More


--- [Bee Conservancy: Free Kids' and Classroom Resources] ---
No content


--- [Advocacy - Green Translations Services] ---
The Bee Conservancy History and Mission The Honeybee Conservancy was founded in 2009 by Guillermo Fernandez in response to the news that bees across the globe were in crisis. In fall of 2020, The Honeybee Conservancy relaunched as The Bee Conservancy to better capture our work protecting all bees and securing environmental and food justice through education, research, habitat creation, and advocacy. As a child immigrant from Cuba, Guillermo grew up in a crowded, multi-ethnic urban area where one-third of the community lived in poverty. His neighborhood, like so many others, was a food desert; fresh fruit and vegetables were near impossible to find, supermarkets stocked mostly processed food, and local restaurants were all fast food chains. There was little-to-no green space, just concrete as far as the eye could see, and the community suffered from rampant health issues that were the result of poor nutrition and degraded environment. Decades later, Guillermo started The Honeybee Conservancy for two reasons. First, he wanted to help save the bees, who pollinate 1 in 3 bites of food we eat and are vital to healthy ecology. Second, he hoped to find ways to empower underserved communities like the one he grew up in to produce healthy food and build green spaces. Our initiatives, such as our flagship program Sponsor-a-Hive, have served hundreds of thousands of people across the United States, and protected an estimated 10 million bees to date. Unfortunately, that’s the shocking future we face if we don’t work to help our most precious pollinator: bees. Far from being a niche concern, bees lie at the heart of our survival – and they have been dying at unprecedented rates. Their hard work is not only essential to healthy ecosystems, but to sustaining animal and human life too. Each year, bees are experiencing massive die-offs throughout the U.S. and Canada. In 2017, the rusty patched bumblebee was the first bee added to the endangered species list in the continental U.S. A 2019 survey from the Bee Informed Partnership states that nearly 40% of U.S. beekeepers lost their colonies during the previous year. Compared to 1947, the U.S. honeybee population has declined by 60%. Bees pollinate one-third of the food we eat. From apples and squash to buckwheat and coffee, bees are responsible for pollinating most of the fruits, vegetables, seeds, and nuts that are essential to our diets. Honeybees in particular play a huge role in agriculture, contributing over $15 billion to the value of US crop production. Their vision aligns with ours at Green Translations, that it is only through genuine and passionate efforts can we transform awareness to tangible action. In nature, nothing takes more than what it needs. If it does, it goes back to nature. The greatest spiritual leaders believed that love was a force to heal people from illnesses to save our world. That it is in our hands, the inhabitants of our blue Earth, to educate one another, act without hesitation, as well as urge our leaders towards radical steps given the time we have left. We can set aside our differences, self-centered interests and come together against our common foe, which is the destruction of everything we hold dear. It is no longer just an inconvenient truth, it has become our reality; our battle ground, the nexus where we must unite and ultimately decide, whether to stand divided as we face our own oblivion or as one unyielding force to fight for the only planet we have.
