=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Wikipedia]
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (20 July 1907 - 15 July 1972) was an Indian politician who served as the prime minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 1953 to 1964. Bakshi was a founding member of the National Conference and rose to be the second in command to the principal leader Sheikh Abdullah.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bakshi_Ghulam_Mohammad

[Benevolent or Traitor: Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad's Legacy in Kashmir]
Jan 30, 2024 · SRINAGAR: At a time when getting a coveted government job in Jammu and Kashmir seems to be an insurmountable task, it is almost unimaginable to imagine a time when these posts were given out on the streets. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, who took over as Prime Minister of the region in 1953 after a midnight coup against Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah, used to take to the streets to offer job opportunities ...
URL: https://kashmirtimes.com/jammu-and-kashmir-news/bakshi-ghulam-mohammad-the-controversial-legacy-of-kashmirs-benevolent-leader

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed- A Life Sketch - The Kashmir Network]
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed ruled the State of Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister for eleven years from 1953 to 1964. His personal style was a combination of excellent administrative skills, exemplary courage, and robust commonsense. Jammu and Kashmir made tremendous all-round progress under his ...
URL: https://www.kashmirnetwork.com/bgm/life.htm

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed- A Life Sketch - Kashmir Network]
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed ruled the State of Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister for eleven years from 1953 to 1964. His personal style was a combination of excellent administrative skills, exemplary courage, and robust commonsense.
URL: https://kashmirnetwork.com/bgm/life.htm

[Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Bharatpedia]
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (1907–1972) was an Indian politician belonging to the Jammu & Kashmir National Conference, who served as the Prime Minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 1953 to 1964. Bakshi was a member...
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Bakshi_Ghulam_Mohammad


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Wikipedia] ---
Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad (20 July 1907 – 15 July 1972) was an Indian politician who served as the prime minister of Jammu and Kashmir from 1953 to 1964. Bakshi was a founding member of the National Conference and rose to be the second in command to the principal leader Sheikh Abdullah. He served as the deputy prime minister of the State of Jammu and Kashmir between 1947 and 1953, but disagreed with Abdullah's advocacy of independence for the state in 1953. He staged a 'coup' with the help of the head of state Karan Singh, resulting in the dismissal and imprisonment of Sheikh Abdullah. Bakshi was the longest serving prime minister, whose rule saw the formulation of the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and a normalisation of relations of Jammu and Kashmir with the Indian government.


--- [Benevolent or Traitor: Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad's Legacy in Kashmir] ---
No content


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed- A Life Sketch - The Kashmir Network] ---
| Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed ruled the State of Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister for eleven years from 1953 to 1964. His personal style was a combination of excellent administrative skills, exemplary courage, and robust commonsense. Jammu and Kashmir made tremendous all-round progress under his leadership. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed was born in 1907 and was educated at C.M.S Tyndale Biscoe School. He started his career as a school teacher in far flung areas of Jammu and Kashmir like Skardu and Leh and later served in the Kashmir branch of the All India Spinners' Association. In 1927 he joined Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah in the agitation for securing civic and political rights for the State's Muslim population, which was suffering under the autocratic rule of the Dogra rulers, culminating in the formation of the Muslim Conference in 1930. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed displayed a great talent for organization and capacity for sustained hard work during the years of struggle. He organised students and workers, set up their unions and went to jail several times during the freedom struggle - including a torturous sixteen-month term in Reasi sub-Jail. For his bravery and organisational prowess he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid-bin-Walid, the great Muslim general. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed proved to be a great administrator and is remembered as the "Architect of Modern Kashmir" because of his constructive work in the State. He had a unique knack of establishing a direct rapport with people at grass-root level which gained tremendous popularity among people of all regions. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed set Kashmir on the road to progress, gave a practical shape to the ideal of "Naya Kashmir", and earned enormous fame and goodwill in and outside Kashmir. The eleven years of the Bakshi's Premiership have been the longest continuous stint by any Prime Minister or Chief Minister and are generally acknowledged as the Golden Period of the State's post-independence history. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed had steadfastly resisted any attempt to undermine Jammu and Kashmir's special status within the Union of India and was the last leader to hold the title of "Prime Minister" of Kashmir. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed was released on health grounds in December 1964. In June 1965 he made an announcement that he had decided to retire from politics. His popularity, however, remained undiminished and in 1967 he was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee by a big margin. He remained a member of the Lok Sabha till 1971. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed passed away in July 1972 leaving behind the foundations of a modern, vibrant Kashmir unshackled from ignorance, hunger, poverty and backwardness. | | • Life • Achievements • Gallery • Family • Glimpses • Contact • |


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed- A Life Sketch - Kashmir Network] ---
| Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed ruled the State of Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister for eleven years from 1953 to 1964. His personal style was a combination of excellent administrative skills, exemplary courage, and robust commonsense. Jammu and Kashmir made tremendous all-round progress under his leadership. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed was born in 1907 and was educated at C.M.S Tyndale Biscoe School. He started his career as a school teacher in far flung areas of Jammu and Kashmir like Skardu and Leh and later served in the Kashmir branch of the All India Spinners' Association. In 1927 he joined Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah in the agitation for securing civic and political rights for the State's Muslim population, which was suffering under the autocratic rule of the Dogra rulers, culminating in the formation of the Muslim Conference in 1930. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed displayed a great talent for organization and capacity for sustained hard work during the years of struggle. He organised students and workers, set up their unions and went to jail several times during the freedom struggle - including a torturous sixteen-month term in Reasi sub-Jail. For his bravery and organisational prowess he earned the sobriquet "Khalid-e-Kashmir" after Khalid-bin-Walid, the great Muslim general. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed proved to be a great administrator and is remembered as the "Architect of Modern Kashmir" because of his constructive work in the State. He had a unique knack of establishing a direct rapport with people at grass-root level which gained tremendous popularity among people of all regions. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed set Kashmir on the road to progress, gave a practical shape to the ideal of "Naya Kashmir", and earned enormous fame and goodwill in and outside Kashmir. The eleven years of the Bakshi's Premiership have been the longest continuous stint by any Prime Minister or Chief Minister and are generally acknowledged as the Golden Period of the State's post-independence history. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed had steadfastly resisted any attempt to undermine Jammu and Kashmir's special status within the Union of India and was the last leader to hold the title of "Prime Minister" of Kashmir. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed was released on health grounds in December 1964. In June 1965 he made an announcement that he had decided to retire from politics. His popularity, however, remained undiminished and in 1967 he was elected to the Lok Sabha on a National Conference ticket defeating the ruling Congress nominee by a big margin. He remained a member of the Lok Sabha till 1971. Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed passed away in July 1972 leaving behind the foundations of a modern, vibrant Kashmir unshackled from ignorance, hunger, poverty and backwardness. | | • Life • Achievements • Gallery • Family • Glimpses • Contact • |


--- [Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad - Bharatpedia] ---
No content
