=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Poet Laureate of Ontario - Wikipedia]
The poet laureate of Ontario (French: Poète officiel de l'Ontario) is the poet laureate for the province of Ontario in Canada. The position was established in 2019 as an office of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario in honour of musician and writer Gord Downie.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poet_Laureate_of_Ontario

[Poet Laureate of Ontario Act (In Memory of Gord Downie), 2019]
The Bill establishes the office of the Poet Laureate of Ontario in memory of Gord Downie. The qualifications and selection process for the Poet Laureate are set out. The responsibilities of the Poet Laureate include promoting art and literacy, celebrating Ontario and its people and raising the profile of Ontario poets.
URL: https://www.ola.org/en/legislative-business/bills/parliament-42/session-1/bill-6

[Ontario poet laureate role created in honour of Hip frontman Gord Downie]
Dec 13, 2019 · Ontario has created a new poet laureate position for the province and named it after the late Tragically Hip singer Gord Downie.
URL: https://www.ctvnews.ca/ottawa/article/ontario-poet-laureate-role-created-in-honour-of-hip-frontman-gord-downie/

[Home | OntarioPoet.org]
Nov 26, 2024 · The role The Poet Laureate of Ontario Act The Poet Laureate of Ontario Act (In Memory of Gord Downie) (external link ↗) honours the late poet and lead singer of popular Canadian rock band The Tragically Hip, who passed away in October 2017. MPP Percy Hatfield introduced the bill, and it passed unanimously in the Legislature in December 2019.
URL: https://www.ontariopoet.org/

['His legend lives on': Ontario to get poet laureate in memory of Gord Downie]
Dec 12, 2019 · Canada already has a poet laureate, as do many other Ontario cities, including Windsor, Barrie, London, Mississauga, Ottawa and Toronto, Hatfield points out. Installing someone in the role at the ...
URL: https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/toronto/gord-downie-poet-laureate-position-1.5392988


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Poet Laureate of Ontario - Wikipedia] ---
The poet laureate of Ontario (French: Poète officiel de l’Ontario) is the poet laureate for the province of Ontario in Canada. The position was established in 2019 as an office of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario in honour of musician and writer Gord Downie.


--- [Poet Laureate of Ontario Act (In Memory of Gord Downie), 2019] ---
EXPLANATORY NOTE This Explanatory Note was written as a reader’s aid to Bill 6 and does not form part of the law. Bill 6 has been enacted as Chapter 16 of the Statutes of Ontario, 2019. The Bill establishes the office of the Poet Laureate of Ontario in memory of Gord Downie. The qualifications and selection process for the Poet Laureate are set out. The responsibilities of the Poet Laureate include promoting art and literacy, celebrating Ontario and its people and raising the profile of Ontario poets. Bill 6 2019 An Act to establish the Poet Laureate of Ontario in memory of Gord Downie Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Ontario, enacts as follows: Poet Laureate of Ontario established 1 (1) There shall be a Poet Laureate of Ontario who is an officer of the Assembly. Appointment (2) The Assembly shall, by order, appoint a Poet Laureate of Ontario. Qualifications (3) The person appointed under subsection (2) shall meet the following qualifications: 1. The individual must be a person whose primary residence is Ontario and who has resided in Ontario for a period of at least six months during the 12 months preceding the selection. 2. The individual must have published at least one volume of poetry within the last 10 years or must demonstrate that his or her body of work over the years has brought honour to himself or herself and to Ontario. Terms of office (4) The Poet Laureate of Ontario shall hold office for a term not exceeding two years and shall continue to hold office after the expiry of his or her term until a successor is appointed. Removal (5) The Assembly may, by order, remove the Poet Laureate of Ontario from office, or suspend him or her, for cause. Selection by panel or unanimous vote 2 Any order of the Assembly appointing an individual as the Poet Laureate of Ontario is not valid unless, (a) the individual has first been selected by unanimous agreement of the members of a selection panel consisting of, (i) the Speaker, who shall also serve as the chair of the panel, (ii) the Ontario Legislative Librarian, (iii) two members of the Province of Ontario Council for the Arts who have knowledge of literary activity in Ontario, jointly selected by the Speaker and the Ontario Legislative Librarian, and (iv) the current Poet Laureate of Ontario, if any; or (b) the order appointing the Poet Laureate of Ontario is passed by a vote of all the members of the Assembly present during the vote. Responsibilities 3 (1) The Poet Laureate of Ontario shall, (a) promote art and literacy in Ontario; (b) celebrate Ontario and its people; (c) raise the profile of Ontario poets; (d) raise public awareness of poetry and of the spoken word; (e) act as a spokesperson for literature in general and poetry in particular; and (f) provide a focal point for the expression of Ontario culture and heritage through the literary arts. Same (2) In carrying out the responsibilities set out in subsection (1), the Poet Laureate of Ontario shall undertake activities including, but not limited to, (a) writing poetry, occasionally for use in the Legislature if called upon by the Speaker or the Lieutenant Governor; (b) visiting schools, presenting or arranging poetry readings and assisting with writing workshops or other activities; (c) advising the Legislative Library regarding the collection of the Library and acquisitions that may enrich its cultural holdings; and (d) performing such other duties as may be requested by the Speaker, the Lieutenant Governor or the Legislative Library in relation to this Act. Honorarium 4 (1) The Board of Internal Economy may authorize the Speaker to pay an honorarium to the Poet Laureate of Ontario. Reimbursement of expenses (2) The Board of Internal Economy may authorize the Speaker to provide reimbursement to the Poet Laureate of Ontario for expenses related to travel and other expenses related to the purposes of this Act, if the expenses have been approved in advance by the Speaker. Commencement 5 This Act comes into force on the day it receives Royal Assent. Short title 6 The short title of this Act is the Poet Laureate of Ontario Act (In Memory of Gord Downie), 2019.


--- [Ontario poet laureate role created in honour of Hip frontman Gord Downie] ---
Ontario poet laureate role created in honour of Hip frontman Gord Downie Published: Here Are The 60 Best Advent Calendars For 2025 You Can Get In Canada (So Far) I’ve been Using This Canadian Shampoo And Conditioner For Over A Month, And It’s Totally Changed My Scalp And Hair Health 20 Foolproof Gifts To Order If You Want To Get Your Holiday Shopping Done Early I Tried It: A Laundry Basket So Smart It Solved Our Biggest Household Argument 20 Things From Amazon Canada That CTV Shopping Trends Readers Loved Ordering In October How To Choose The Best Vacuum Sealer For You (And A Few Of Our Favourite Models For 2025) 13 Budget-Friendly Beauty Products That Are Dupes Of More Expensive Items 12 Products For Damaged Hair That’ll Help Bring Your Fried Tresses Back To Life 15 Of The Best Korean Beauty Skincare Finds For Fall 2025 27 Of The Absolute Best Last-Minute Beauty Discounts To Take Advantage Of Before The Amazon Prime Big Deal Days Sale Ends The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us.


--- [Home | OntarioPoet.org] ---
top of page Official Site of the Poet Laureate of Ontario Matthew-Ray Jones The role The Poet Laureate of Ontario Act The Poet Laureate of Ontario Act (In Memory of Gord Downie) (external link ↗) honours the late poet and lead singer of popular Canadian rock band The Tragically Hip, who passed away in October 2017. MPP Percy Hatfield introduced the bill, and it passed unanimously in the Legislature in December 2019. The Poet Laureate is an officer of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario and reports to the Speaker. Learn more about the role and how to become the next Poet Laureate of Ontario: bottom of page


--- ['His legend lives on': Ontario to get poet laureate in memory of Gord Downie] ---
'His legend lives on': Ontario to get poet laureate in memory of Gord Downie Private member's bill introduced by Windsor NDP MPP Percy Hatfield passed Thursday He was the frontman who, for many, gave Canadiana a sound, moving generations of music lovers with his unmistakable rock-poet style. Now, Ontario will enshrine Gord Downie's name into law with the province's first poet laureate position. The Poet Laureate of Ontario Act in memory of Downie, the beloved Tragically Hip lead singer and lyricist, passed Thursday during the final sitting day of the legislative session for the year. The private member's bill by Percy Hatfield, NDP MPP for Windsor-Tecumseh, was first introduced in 2017, two months after Downie died at age 53 of an incurable form of brain cancer called glioblastoma. The job: to promote the arts and literacy in Ontario, raise the profile of poets in the province, and act as an ambassador for Ontario poetry and literature. "His legend lives on, if you will," Hatfield told CBC News. He was many things to many people, but at the heart of it he was a poet.- Patrick Downie "I just think there's no more fitting tribute that we could pay to Gord Downie other than to name the poet laureate position in his memory. I mean, he read poetry, poets read him and followed him." Downie delivered much of his poetry through music, but also published in book form with Coke Machine Glow coming out in 2001. His music spanned themes of Canadian history, nature, the justice system, life and death. In later years, he was especially vocal about the struggles of Indigenous Peoples, declaring: "Canada is not Canada. We are not the country we think we are." Speaking to CBC News Thursday, Patrick Downie called it "a great honour" to see such a position being considered in his brother's name. "It's very special. Gord was a real, true artist and writer and he really put his life into it," he said, adding that anything that continues his legacy and helps propel the artistry of others is a positive thing. "He was many things to many people, but at the heart of it he was a poet and his poetry does what poetry does: it makes people think," Downie said. 'Open books, open minds, open hearts' "If you read the New York Times, there's an editorial in there that said, 'The place of honour that Mr. Downie occupies in Canada's national imagination has no parallel in the United States. Imagine Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan and Michael Stipe combined into one sensitive, oblique poet-philosopher, and you're getting close,'" Hatfield said. Canada already has a poet laureate, as do many other Ontario cities, including Windsor, Barrie, London, Mississauga, Ottawa and Toronto, Hatfield points out. Installing someone in the role at the Ontario Legislature will help raise the profile of the province's $27-billion arts sector, which employs some 30,000 people, even higher. The role is particularly important for some of Ontario's more remote communities, Hatfield told CBC News. "If you think of going to rural or northern communities, they don't have the ballet or the museums or the opera or symphonies or blockbuster art events, but if a poet laureate comes to visit, that's big news. And I think that would stimulate a lot of interest." In his home community of Windsor, the poet-laureate can draw a standing-room only turnout, said Hatfield. "Gord Downie, if you're familiar with him, on his blue jean jacket there's a yellow button that says, 'Open books, open minds, open hearts,'" said Hatfield. "And I think that's what a poet laureate would do."
