=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Google Chrome - Wikipedia]
It was launched in 2008 for Microsoft Windows and was built with free ... On January 2, 2019, Google introduced Native Dark Theme for Chrome on Windows 10.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Chrome

[Google Chrome Getting a Native Dark Mode in Windows 10 - Thurrott.com]
Jan 3, 2019 · The company has been planning to add a dark mode for Chrome on Windows 10 for a few months, and first signs of the new dark theme have appeared on the latest versions of Chrome Canary.
URL: https://www.thurrott.com/google/196748/google-chrome-getting-a-native-dark-mode-in-windows-10

[Google Is Finally Rolling Out Chrome’s Dark Mode for Windows 10]
Chrome 74 also introduces security changes as well as a Lite Mode for Android that will replace its Data Saver setting, a whitepaper for which Google said it will publish in the coming months.
URL: https://gizmodo.com/google-is-finally-rolling-out-chromes-dark-mode-for-win-1834268990

[r/google on Reddit: Finally, Dark Mode is officially supported on Chrome!]
I think the first thing when I first downloaded Chrome many years ago was applying some themes. Also there were official chrome dark themes from Google on the Chrome Web store ... Launch Chrome and dark mode will be enabled. If you usually launch Chrome from a pinned taskbar item, you’ll need to right click the shortcut trick and then unpin / pin to taskbar again for this to hold · Source: https://www.theverge.com/2019/4/24/18512288/google-chrome-dark-mode-now-available-windows-10
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/google/comments/bhev8c/finally_dark_mode_is_officially_supported_on/

[Google to turn off the lights with native dark mode in Chrome on Windows 10]
Though the feature is already heading to MacOS Mojave in a future update, it has now been confirmed that Google will be adding support for a native dark mode in Chrome on Windows 10 as well. The official admission of a dark mode for Chrome in Windows 10 comes from Google engineer Google Peter Kasting. He originally created a bug thread on the Chromium project page back in May, but recently mentioned it again on a Reddit thread. There, he generally recommends that those consumers looking for a dark mode in Chrome use a dark theme for the time being, as native dark mode support is “currently in progress.”
URL: https://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/google-chrome-dark-mode-confirmed-windows-10/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Google Chrome - Wikipedia] ---
Google Chrome is a cross-platform web browser developed by Google. It was launched in 2008 for Microsoft Windows and was built with free software components from Apple WebKit and Mozilla Firefox. Versions were later released for Linux, macOS, iOS, iPadOS, and Android, where it is currently the default browser. The browser is also the main component of ChromeOS, on which it serves as the platform for web applications.
Most of Chrome's source code comes from Google's free and open-source software project known as Chromium, but Chrome is licensed as proprietary freeware. WebKit was the original rendering engine, but Google eventually forked it to create the Blink engine; every Chrome variant except iOS used Blink as of 2017.
As of March 2026, StatCounter estimates that Chrome has a 75.23% worldwide browser market share on personal computers. It is the most-used browser on tablets (having far surpassed Safari), and is also dominant on smartphones. With a market share of 71.22% across all platforms combined as of December 2025, Chrome is the most used web browser in the world.
Google chief executive Eric Schmidt was previously involved in the "browser wars" (a part of U.S. corporate history) and was against the expansion of the company into such a new area. However, Google co-founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, spearheaded a software demonstration that pushed Schmidt into making Chrome a core business priority, which resulted in it becoming a commercial success. Because of the proliferation of Chrome, Google has expanded the "Chrome" brand name to other products. This includes ChromeOS, Chromecast, Chromebook, Chromebit, Chromebox, and Chromebase.




--- [Google Chrome Getting a Native Dark Mode in Windows 10 - Thurrott.com] ---
Google’s Chrome browser could be getting support for a native dark mode in Windows. The company has been planning to add a dark mode for Chrome on Windows 10 for a few months, and first signs of the new dark theme have appeared on the latest versions of Chrome Canary. Chrome technically already has a dark mode within the incognito mode, though you can’t enable the same dark mode for the regular browser. Going forward, though, Chromium developers want to respect Windows 10 users’ settings and automatically enable Chrome’s upcoming dark mode when they have the dark theme in Windows 10 enabled. As 9to5Mac reports, the latest versions of Chrome Canary has a dark mode that you can enable by adding “–force-dark-mode” to the target on the Chrome Canary app shortcut from the Properties window in Windows 10. Once that’s done, running the browser will automatically disable the new dark mode in Chrome. The only problem is that the dark mode isn’t anywhere near polished. The browser tab and address bar have a decent UI, but everything else is a little broken — and that includes the profile menu, the main menu, and the settings. The feature will obviously improve over the next couple of weeks and possibly months before the UI is fully polished and ready for all users, so that’s not something you should worry about right now. It’s worth noting that the feature does work on older versions of Windows as well, so Google might offer an option to manually select between the light and dark modes from within Chrome instead of simply following the users’ Windows 10 settings.


--- [Google Is Finally Rolling Out Chrome’s Dark Mode for Windows 10] ---
Finally, Windows 10 users will have access to Chrome’s official Dark Mode. On Tuesday, Google announced that it would begin rolling out its stable version of Chrome 74 for Windows, Mac, and Linux in the coming weeks. Along with the update comes Dark Mode support for Windows 10 users that’s been available on MacOS since last month with the rollout of Chrome 73. You’ll want to make sure Windows 10 is up to date and though Chrome automatically updates itself, you can force it by clicking the three little dots in the upper right corner of the browser, hovering over “help,” and clicking “about Chrome.” As ZDNet notes, there is, unfortunately, no simple switch to enable the support. As with MacOS, for those Windows 10 users who already have Dark Mode enabled on their system, Chrome should match itself to their operating system setting. In other words, you have to go full Dark Mode or nothing. According to a Community Manager on the Chrome Help forum, Google is reportedly only “rolling out this feature to a small number of Chrome M74 users now” ahead of an eventual wider rollout. If this is the case for you, one commenter suggested a workaround for force-enabling the setting: – open the “Properties” of a Chrome shortcut – in the “Target” field, after “C:Program FilesGoogleChromeApplicationchrome.exe” ADD “—force-dark-mode” (Without the quotation marks) – “Apply” and “OK” At the time of writing, this trick wasn’t working for us but it seems others have had success. It’s possible that you’ll have better luck. Dark Mode in Windows 10, as with MacOS, mimics Chrome’s Incognito mode. The theme will change the theme of a new tab, the Bookmarks bar, and the options menu, according to Tech Times. As with the MacOS version, the Dark Mode does not appear to extend to Settings landing pages in Windows. Chrome 74 also introduces security changes as well as a Lite Mode for Android that will replace its Data Saver setting, a whitepaper for which Google said it will publish in the coming months. Some other features introduced in Chrome 74 include an Android option to “Remove animations” to reduce motion sickness, as well as an option for blocking sites from knowing you’re browsing in Chrome’s Incognito Mode (though it has to be enabled). If you’re among the poor souls who stare at a computer screen for 12 hours a day, I can’t recommend Dark Mode enough. Even if you’re not, Chrome’s new setting at least brings a welcome unified color scheme to its platform so we can put those busted Chrome Web Store Themes behind us. Clarification: Because of a backend error, a double dash was changed to an em-dash in the suggested workaround from the Chrome Help commenter. Some Kinja readers noted that a single dash before “-force-dark-mode” works for force-enabling the Dark Mode setting. Neither single nor double dashes worked for us, but again, you might have better luck.


--- [r/google on Reddit: Finally, Dark Mode is officially supported on Chrome!] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/google Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to google r/google • quanganh2001 Finally, Dark Mode is officially supported on Chrome! Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 25, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation


--- [Google to turn off the lights with native dark mode in Chrome on Windows 10] ---
Google’s Chrome web browser has picked up quite a few new features over the past months, but support for a true dark mode has never been an option for consumers. Though the feature is already heading to MacOS Mojave in a future update, it has now been confirmed that Google will be adding support for a native dark mode in Chrome on Windows 10 as well. The official admission of a dark mode for Chrome in Windows 10 comes from Google engineer Google Peter Kasting. He originally created a bug thread on the Chromium project page back in May, but recently mentioned it again on a Reddit thread. There, he generally recommends that those consumers looking for a dark mode in Chrome use a dark theme for the time being, as native dark mode support is “currently in progress.” The Windows 10 October 2018 update currently has an option which lets apps, system-wide, respect a dark mode when enabled in the settings, and it would be great if Chrome would support the option for well. Presumably, the dark mode would be similar to the “Incognito” mode in Chrome, where the Omnibox turns dark, alongside menus, the bookmarks bar, and tabs. Not only would that help reduce eye strain, but it could make it easier for those who have complained about Chrome’s Material Design elements. There’s still no official time frame for when the feature will be added to Chrome, but it can be assumed that Google is now in a hurry to push it out to consumers. The bug thread mentioning the feature is marked with a priority level of 2, so it could likely be coming in Chrome 73 or 74 scheduled for release in late January and early March. If you’re considering taking Google’s advice and are looking for some of the best dark themes, we have a collection of the best Chrome themes to help you add more pizzazz to the browser. Dark Mode support would also top several features introduced in prior versions of Chrome. Previously the popular web browser received support for the ability to block all ads on abusive websites and to help stop websites from hijacking your back button.
