=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Love Is Blind's Iyanna McNeely Officially Files for Divorce from Jarrette Jones]
Oct 4, 2022 — Former Love Is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announced their split in August.
URL: https://people.com/tv/love-is-blind-iyanna-mcneely-officially-files-for-divorce-from-jarrette-jones/

['Love Is Blind' Season 2: Iyanna And Jarrette Announce Divorce]
fter spending a little over a year together, Iyanna and Jarrette posted on their Instagrams on August 17 to announce the sad news that they would be getting a divorce. "After much thought, we're saddened to share that we have separated and ...
URL: https://www.womenshealthmag.com/life/a39047576/are-iyanna-mcneely-jarrette-jones-still-together-love-is-blind-season-2/

[‘Love is Blind’ couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announce they will divorce]
In a joint statement, Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones of “Love is Blind” have announced their split, officially sharing their plans to divorce after tying the knot on the season finale that aired earlier this year.
URL: https://www.aol.com/love-blind-couple-iyanna-mcneely-152012256.html

[Love Is Blind 's Iyanna McNeely Officially Files for Divorce from Jarrette Jones]
RELATED: Love Is Blind's Iyanna McNeely Is Ready to Move On, Says Her 'Final Chapter' of the Show Is Over · WATCH WHAT HAPPENS LIVE WITH ANDY COHEN -- Episode 19043 -- Pictured: (l-r) Iyanna McNeely, Jarrette Jones ... Published October 4, 2022
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/entertainment/love-blind-iyanna-mcneely-officially-203225150.html

[Love Is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announce split | Daily Mail Online]
The couple, who tied the knot on season two of the Netflix series, announced their separation and plans for divorce in a statement posted to their Instagram accounts on Wednesday.
URL: https://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-11121217/Love-Blind-couple-Iyanna-McNeely-Jarrette-Jones-announce-split.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Love Is Blind's Iyanna McNeely Officially Files for Divorce from Jarrette Jones] ---
'Love Is Blind' 's Iyanna McNeely Officially Files for Divorce from Jarrette Jones The former Love Is Blind couple announced their split in August By Dory Jackson Dory Jackson Dory Jackson is a Staff Editor for PEOPLE's TV News team. Upon joining the brand in March 2021, she has had the opportunity to interview a long list of celebrities, from Kate Hudson to Pierce Brosnan to Billy Porter. She has also helped recap popular TV shows like 'The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills,' 'Sister Wives' and 'Vanderpump Rules.' The New York-based Maryland native graduated from Randolph-Macon College in May 2016 with a focus on Communication Studies and Journalism. She came to PEOPLE in March 2021 after working at a number of major news companies, including Newsweek and Us Weekly. People Editorial Guidelines Published on October 4, 2022 04:32PM EDT Former Love is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones are moving forward with their legal separation. According to documents viewed by PEOPLE, McNeely officially filed for divorce from Jones through the Circuit Court of Cook County on Sept. 23. McNeely, 28, has hired Chicago-based attorney Amanda Oliver to represent her in the case, while Jones, also 28, has chosen to represent himself. McNeely cited irreconcilable differences as the reason for separation, according to E! News. Jones responded with a statement to PEOPLE: "As most know by now, Iyanna and I have decided to go our separate ways. In doing so, we're still moving forward with the decision to file for divorce. I'll continue to wish Iyanna nothing but happiness and success with every future endeavor. I'm thankful for the continued support from everyone and hope for understanding during this difficult time." PEOPLE also reached out to McNeely's attorney for comment. Love Is Blind's Iyanna McNeely Is Ready to Move On, Says Her 'Final Chapter' of the Show Is Over Charles Sykes/Bravo/Getty McNeely and Jones' love story was featured on the Netflix hit's second season. They were one of two couples to wed in the finale episode, alongside Danielle Ruhl and Nick Thompson. The pair announced their plans to divorce in August. The split was publicized shortly before Ruhl, 29, and Thompson, 36, announced they had also decided to part ways after one year of marriage. "After much thought, we're saddened to share that we have separated and will begin the process of divorcing," read a joint statement from McNeely and Jones. "While we have love for each other, our lives are going in different directions, and that's okay." McNeely and Jones acknowledged that while "coming to this decision was far from easy," the former couple will "always wish each other the absolute best." "We hope you all give us some space as we close this chapter of our lives," they continued. "Thank you to our close friends and family for loving us both through our experience. To the Love Is Blind family and Netflix, thank you for this unforgettable opportunity and support. Each of you have brought overwhelming love and joy into our lives." Their statement concluded, "This experience has taught us so much about ourselves, vulnerability and love. We don't regret a single thing!" Jarrette Jones and Iyanna McNeely. Charles Sykes/Bravo/Getty McNeely recently opened up about how the show ultimately impacted their marriage, especially as September's Love Is Blind: After the Altar special loomed. "Every time something like the season premiere coming out or After the Altar coming out, there's always the knowing that the security of our marriage will be in the spotlight again," she said on the Diary of an Empath podcast last month. "So with Jarrett and I going through the issues that we were, even as of late, before we made the decision to separate, it was just heavy on my mind again, we're going to have to explain ourselves, we're going to have to relive everything that was put on TV," she continued. "It was more of a push to kind of just make a final decision, is this going to work or not? We've given it a year, we've experienced the same issues repeatedly." Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up to date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. Love Is Blind returns for season 3 on Oct. 19 on Netflix. Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Relationships Celebrity Breakups


--- ['Love Is Blind' Season 2: Iyanna And Jarrette Announce Divorce] ---
- Jarrette Jones and Iyanna McNeely star as one of the main couples in Love Is Blind season 2. - They get married on the show—but after roughly one year together, they've announced they're splitting up. - Here are all of the spoilers, plus what to know about their relationship status now: Warning: Major Love Is Blind spoilers ahead! Stop reading here if you don't want to know what happens in season 2. Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones didn’t have the smoothest path to engagement on Love Is Blind season two. Jarrette went back and forth between Iyanna and Mallory Zapata and ultimately decided he wanted to propose to Mallory…only to be rejected. So, Jarrette turned to Iyanna, stressing that he didn’t want her to feel like she was his second choice (even though she kinda-totally was). Iyanna hesitated but eventually accepted Jarrette’s proposal. Things progressed from there. But their 'ship was far from easy. While the couple still made it down the aisle, things seem to be falling apart. Here’s what you need to know. What happened between Iyanna and Jarrette on Love Is Blind? Iyanna and Jarrette had a great time in Mexico at first. They clearly were getting along and seemed in love. Jarrette was totally cool with Iyanna’s choice to wait to have sex until after they were married. But things got a little weird after Jarrette finally met Mallory face-to-face. And it was pretty obvious they still had feelings for each other. Mallory kept coming up as an issue for these two during the season, and fair. Despite their rocky start, these two did get married on the show in an adorable ceremony. "We have so much more to do, but, oh, my God, this is a great start," Iyanna told the cameras after the pair swapped vows. "I just married the woman of my dreams. I'm f---ing on top of the world right now—cloud nine," Jarrette added. They've talked about their marriage on social media after the show aired. In recent months, Iyanna has posted several times about what it's been like being married. And it sounded pretty great. "Two flawed people simply trying to create something. It’s only been 10 months, but the amount of transition and growth we’ve experienced individually and as a couple is astounding," she captioned an April IG post. "Marriage is a crucible and a mirror. I believe in it in a way I don’t think I understood before." Then in May, she posted a sweet video to commemorate Jarrette's proposal. "Oh how I love this man and the man he’s becoming. It was this date a year ago that I took a risk and accepted his ratchet ass proposal (he owes me a new one btw). 😂," she wrote. "We developed our ghetto start into something mature, full of admiration, respect, and so much love. I seriously love growing with you. And this is only the beginning." Jarrette got kinda sappy about seeing her in white, too: But things must have gone south quickly, because they're now saying they have called it quits. So, why are Iyanna and Jarrette getting a divorce? After spending a little over a year together, Iyanna and Jarrette posted on their Instagrams on August 17 to announce the sad news that they would be getting a divorce. "After much thought, we're saddened to share that we have separated and will begin the process of divorcing," they wrote. "While we have love for each other, our lives are going in different directions, and that's okay." While they didn't go into details about what, exactly, was going on between them, they did say that the decision was "far from easy," and that they will "always wish each other the absolute best." The couple then asked for everyone to give them some space during their breakup, and thanked their LIB family. "Each of you have brought overwhelming love and joy into our lives. This experience has taught us so much about ourselves, vulnerability and love," the post continued. "We don't regret a single thing!"


--- [‘Love is Blind’ couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announce they will divorce] ---
‘Love is Blind’ couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announce they will divorce The two became a fan favorite pair on the second season of Netflix’s hit reality dating series. In a joint statement, Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones of “Love is Blind” have announced their split, officially sharing their plans to divorce after tying the knot on the season finale that aired earlier this year. The couple, who celebrated their first anniversary in June, took to Instagram with their statement on Wednesday, sharing the news with their thousands of followers, whom they refer to as “family.” They wrote in the post that they had given the decision much thought and now “have separated and will begin the process of divorcing.” “While we have love for each other, our lives are going in different directions, and that’s okay,” the statement reads. “Coming to this decision was far from easy and we will always wish each other the absolute best.” They then asked that their fans give them space as they “close this chapter” of their lives. “Thank you to our close friends and family for loving us both through our experience. To the Love Is Blind family and Netflix, thank you for this unforgettable opportunity and support. Each of you have brought overwhelming love and joy into our lives.” “This experience has taught us so much about ourselves, vulnerability and love,” the statement concludes. “We don’t regret a single thing!” Advertisement Fans, of course, may remember the two from this year’s second season of “Love is Blind,” Netflix’s hit reality dating show that connects partners in separate “pods.” With audio only, eligible bachelors and bachelorettes strike up conversations with their potential matches in an experiment designed to prove whether love is truly blind. As reported in People, while Jones had a connection with another contestant, Mallory Zapata, he wound up choosing McNeely and the pair got engaged. The couple seems to be getting plenty of support and love from fans and followers regarding the decision to go their separate ways. Even the official “Love is Blind” account wished them nothing but the best with a social media post that reads: “Jarrette and Iyanna – As you start the next chapters of your lives, thank you for opening your hearts to the Love is Blind experience and sharing your journey with all of us.” “Love is Blind” fans have plenty of content to look forward to. Earlier this year, the series was renewed through Season 5 on the streamer, with the third season set to begin this year on a still unannounced air date. TheGrio is FREE on your TV via Apple TV, Amazon Fire, Roku and Android TV. Also, please download theGrio mobile apps today! The post ‘Love is Blind’ couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announce they will divorce appeared first on TheGrio.


--- [Love Is Blind 's Iyanna McNeely Officially Files for Divorce from Jarrette Jones] ---
Love Is Blind 's Iyanna McNeely Officially Files for Divorce from Jarrette Jones Former Love is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones are moving forward with their legal separation. According to documents viewed by PEOPLE, McNeely officially filed for divorce from Jones through the Circuit Court of Cook County on Sept. 23. McNeely, 28, has hired Chicago-based attorney Amanda Oliver to represent her in the case, while Jones, also 28, has chosen to represent himself. McNeely cited irreconcilable differences as the reason for separation, according to E! News. Jones responded with a statement to PEOPLE: "As most know by now, Iyanna and I have decided to go our separate ways. In doing so, we're still moving forward with the decision to file for divorce. I'll continue to wish Iyanna nothing but happiness and success with every future endeavor. I'm thankful for the continued support from everyone and hope for understanding during this difficult time." PEOPLE also reached out to McNeely's attorney for comment. RELATED: Love Is Blind's Iyanna McNeely Is Ready to Move On, Says Her 'Final Chapter' of the Show Is Over Charles Sykes/Bravo/Getty McNeely and Jones' love story was featured on the Netflix hit's second season. They were one of two couples to wed in the finale episode, alongside Danielle Ruhl and Nick Thompson. The pair announced their plans to divorce in August. The split was publicized shortly before Ruhl, 29, and Thompson, 36, announced they had also decided to part ways after one year of marriage. "After much thought, we're saddened to share that we have separated and will begin the process of divorcing," read a joint statement from McNeely and Jones. "While we have love for each other, our lives are going in different directions, and that's okay." McNeely and Jones acknowledged that while "coming to this decision was far from easy," the former couple will "always wish each other the absolute best." "We hope you all give us some space as we close this chapter of our lives," they continued. "Thank you to our close friends and family for loving us both through our experience. To the Love Is Blind family and Netflix, thank you for this unforgettable opportunity and support. Each of you have brought overwhelming love and joy into our lives." Their statement concluded, "This experience has taught us so much about ourselves, vulnerability and love. We don't regret a single thing!" Charles Sykes/Bravo/Getty Jarrette Jones and Iyanna McNeely McNeely recently opened up about how the show ultimately impacted their marriage, especially as September's Love Is Blind: After the Altar special loomed. "Every time something like the season premiere coming out or After the Altar coming out, there's always the knowing that the security of our marriage will be in the spotlight again," she said on the Diary of an Empath podcast last month. "So with Jarrett and I going through the issues that we were, even as of late, before we made the decision to separate, it was just heavy on my mind again, we're going to have to explain ourselves, we're going to have to relive everything that was put on TV," she continued. "It was more of a push to kind of just make a final decision, is this going to work or not? We've given it a year, we've experienced the same issues repeatedly." Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up to date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. Love Is Blind returns for season 3 on Oct. 19 on Netflix.


--- [Love Is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announce split | Daily Mail Online] ---
Love Is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones announce split and plans for divorce after tying the knot on season two of Netflix series Love is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones have called it quits. The couple, who tied the knot on season two of the Netflix series, announced their separation and plans for divorce in a statement posted to their Instagram accounts on Wednesday. 'What's going on, family. After much thought, we're saddened to share that we have separated and will begin the process of divorcing,' the statement began. 'We have separated': Love Is Blind couple Iyanna McNeely and Jarrette Jones have called it quits 'While we have love for each other, our lives are going in different directions, and that's okay. Coming to this decision was far from easy and we will always wish each other the absolute best. 'We hope you will give us some space as we close this chapter of our lives. Thank you to our close friends and family for loving us both through our experience. 'To the Love Is Blind family and Netflix, thank you for this unforgettable opportunity and support. Each of you have brought overwhelming love and joy into our lives. This experience has taught us so much about ourselves, vulnerability and love. We don't regret a single thing!' Jarrette and Iyanna were considered perhaps the show's biggest success story after they went through with their wedding. Breaking the news: The former couple announced their split on their Instagram accounts I do! The couple exchanged vows on season two of the Netflix series They were even still going strong by the reunion episode. In March, TMZ reported Iyanna and Jarrette have a record of their marriage on file with the Cook County Court in Illinois. 'It's been hard, but it's been really rewarding too,' Jarrette said during the reunion, while his wife admitted they have had to compromise on their lifestyles after viewers saw the couple clash over Jarrette's partying during filming. 'One thing I will say is we've been finding our balance,' she explained. 'We're hyper aware that we are very different - he's extremely extroverted and I'm like, "Please stay away from me". So, we've been finding this will always be something that we have to deal with. Happier times: Jarrette and Iyanna were considered perhaps the show's biggest success story after they went through with their wedding His and hers: Iyanna had even taken Jarrette's last name on her Instagram account 'But we have such similar values and goals that it's been a compromise.' Things seem to be going strong, as Iyanna had even taken her husband's last name on her Instagram account. 'Meet the Joneses,' she captioned a photo dump of the pair back in March. 'I took a huge leap of faith off of a cliff in this experiment but with you I can fly. I love you more than the world could imagine. I look forward to our now and FINALLY public lives together. My baby, my love, my man, my protector, my partner, my other half. I love you. *insert corny quote * 'Love is truly blind'…not blurry'. Jarrette was equally gushing about their relationship in his own March Instagram update, writing: 'To the woman that came and shook my world upside down in the best way possible… this is for you! Coming into this experiment, I knew that if I truly wanted that fairy tale ending, I'd have to not only be real with myself, but also open, honest, and most importantly VULNERABLE.' 'Meet the Joneses': She captioned a photo dump of the pair back in March 'From the very first conversation the chemistry between us was evident and has only grown over time,' he said. 'There is no handbook on marriage, but we have some great building blocks to set the foundation. This is gonna be one hell of a ride, but I wouldn't want to ride this with anyone but you!' 'I vow to always love you, cherish you, grow with you (even when it's uncomfortable), prioritize you, ensure your happiness, but most importantly HAVE YOUR BACK, LIKE A THONG IN A BUTTCRACK!' Most watched News videos - Moment before woman is shot for marrying without family's blessing - Shocking moment brawl erupts at hotel swimming pool in Benidorm - Coldplay scandal pair lock lips before viral kiss camera moment - Oasis fans ditch their crutches and wheelchairs in 'biblical' scenes - Brand experts claim Meghan Markle is a 'fraud' capitalising on fame - 'Sleeping Prince' dies after 20 years in coma - Delta pilot calmly tells passengers of terrifying near-miss with B-52 - Woman who filmed Coldplay kisscam scandal SPEAKS OUT - Obama says boys should have gay mentors - Gabbard claims Obama initiated 'years-long coup' against Trump - Astronomer CEO Andy Byron resigns following Coldplay kiss cam - Phillies mascots reenact 'Coldplaygate'
