=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[“There's this old, played-out record”: Buck Wild and the History of ...]
Jan 29, 2019 · Today, I want to continue the discussion I began in t he last post on Buck Wild in Milestone Comics’ Icon. Specifically, I want to look at the ways that Dwyane McDuffie uses Buck Wild as a metonym and commentary on Black comic book characters that appeared in the 1970s. To do this, I am going to focus on Buck Wild’s initial appearance in Icon #13 and explore the ways that he thinks about ...
URL: https://interminablerambling.com/2019/01/29/10778/

[Milestone Media]
The first two non-founder employees of Milestone were Matt Wayne, a ... The issues that feature Buck Wild, Icon's return to his home planet, and the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milestone_Media

[Milestone's Buck Wild Paid Homage to Marvel's Luke Cage - CBR]
Feb 23, 2023 · Milestone Entertainment is known for adding more diversity to the comic book landscape, namely when it debuted back in the 1990s. Its characters were predominately Black, however, they certainly weren't the first Black superheroes in comics. Milestone actually honored the history of its predecessors, though it did so in a somewhat brusque way. Luke Cage is one of Marvel's main Black heroes ...
URL: https://www.cbr.com/milestone-luke-cage-homage-black-superheroes/

[Buck Wild - Milestone Comics - Icon ally - Character profile]
Context Buck Wild was one of the characters of the Milestone comic book publisher. If you’re not familiar with this universe, we suggest that you first read our character profile for Icon, as Buck Wild primarily appeared in his book. Buck was an over-the-top parody of many past Black super-heroes. The Buck Goliath, Jim Crow, Buck Lightning, and Buck Wild identities were based on Marvel ...
URL: https://www.writeups.org/buck-wild-milestone-comics-icon/

[Top 20 Black Superheroes-Milestone Edition - WorldofBlackHeroes]
Dec 13, 2013 · Why he’s here: Honestly Buck wild will change how you look at the blaxploitation era of comics and especially classic Luke Cage. Buckwild is a superhero parody of epic proportions and arguably the funniest black character in comics’ period!
URL: https://worldofblackheroes.com/2013/12/13/top-20-milestone-superheroes/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [“There's this old, played-out record”: Buck Wild and the History of ...] ---
Today, I want to continue the discussion I began in the last post on Buck Wild in Milestone Comics’ Icon. Specifically, I want to look at the ways that Dwyane McDuffie uses Buck Wild as a metonym and commentary on Black comic book characters that appeared in the 1970s. To do this, I am going to focus on Buck Wild’s initial appearance in Icon #13 and explore the ways that he thinks about himself in relation to the larger history of Black superheroes such as Luke Cage. After we see Buck Wild on the cover of Icon #13, the title page shows him crashing through a window as bullets hit his impenetrable skin. He serves as the narrator for this section, and the first words we get from him directly relate to his position as a caricature. He thinks, “There’s this old, played-out record that I can’t get outta my head.” The “old, played-out record,” of course, is Buck Wild himself. His speech mirrors the jilted dialogue of Luke Cage, and the title of the issue, “It’s Always Christmas,” even plays on Cage’s catchphrase, “Sweet Christmas.” Along with this, the credits’ list at the bottom of the page plays up 70’s era blaxploitation by inserting signifiers such as “Trouble Man,” “Dolomite,” “Godfather of Soul,” and more between the artists’ names. As Buck Wild battles the men shooting at him, one aims a gun at his face and pulls the trigger. The bullet stuns him, and the next panel shows a close up of Buck Wild holding a hand to his eye. Still pondering the “played-out record,” Buck Wild thinks, “And I can’t get it outta my head. The music or the picture.” The next panel shows a close up on Buck Wild’s face, and in his right eye, the one that took the bullet, there appears to be a tear running down his cheek. Teeth clenched, eyes ablaze, he continues to think, this time about the pictures: “Pimps in platform shoes. Big black studs. Fat, sloppy, rag-headed mammies.” While these panels show Buck Wild enduring physical harm, the perspective and narration also call upon us as readers to think about the psychological aspects of his narration. The stereotypes that Buck Wild mentions continue to have an effect on him, mentally, and by having him grab his head, as he mentions that he can’t get the song out of his head, the panel highlights the ways that these stereotypes have seeped into his brain and continue to influence him. The closeup panel of him face presents an image of a man that is ready to fight back against the “played-out record.” Even though he does not do this right now, he does begin to do it later. Buck Wild continues to fight, and as he does, thoughts continue to enter his mind. The record may be played out, he thinks, “but nothin’ new ever came to take its place. So I keeps that song runnin’ through my head.” Since the 1970s, what Black characters from the major two publishers deviated from the blaxploitation model? Black Panther may be the only one, but he went in a different direction in the late 1970s when Jack Kirby took over the series. Between the 1970s and the early 1990s, the image stayed the same, playing up urban environments and treating readers to tours of the ghetto laced with stereotypes and inaccurate representation. Fist raised, Buck Wild concludes his thoughts as he screams it’s time to get paid. He narrates, “It ain’t much. it ain’t even good. But it might be all there is.” Buck Wild acquiesces to the fact that maybe the images he works within are all there is, and at least that is something. We need to recall that Luke Cage was one of the first Black superheroes, but he existed as more of a caricature than a true representation of Black Americans. He was a way to cash in on the blaxploitation films, and I would even argue pulp fiction, of the era, genres that subverted the system but that also dealt in stereotypes. Thinking back to the Black-Owned Communication Alliance‘s ad that I wrote about a few posts ago, what did Luke Cage bring to the table in regard to representation? As McDuffie noted, he didn’t buy into Luke Cage, partly because he was “the bastard child of a 10,000 blaxploitation movies.” Likewise, creators such as Christopher Priest didn’t buy into Cage either in the 1970s. He stated, “most of that work seemed disingenuous, having not much in the way of anything that was true to my experience as a black youth in America.” Priest continues by pointing out that the majority of super-heroes are written by whites, “and the larger body of African or African-American characters bear not much resemblance to any real black culture. A great deal of it is an appropriation of black culture and voice; it seems to be what white people think black people are.” Priest’s thoughts echo what I was pointing to in the last post, that Luke Cage’s initial appearance portray him as a cultural tour guide to Black life in America. Steve Englehart mentions that Archie Goodwin, Luke Cage’s first writer, would go down to the theatre and watch films such as Shaft and Foxy Brown, taking what he saw and transfering it to the pages of Luke Cage. Thus, Goodwin’s presentation became filtered not through his own experiences or interactions with Blacks but through media representations. This means that he took bits and pieces of what he saw and incorporated them into the series, appropriating the images, like Priest says. This is what Quentin Tarantino does as well, something I have written about some in regards to Priest’s Black Panther. Buck Wild’s initial sequence ends when he gets captured by Lysistrata Jones, and he thinks, “The music in my head started again. And that’s the last thing I remember.” The next page starts a new record because we see a new hero, a new representation, in the form of Raquel Ervin (Rocket). She stands on a rooftop overlooking the city. She narrates, “I’m fifteen years old. I’m a superhero. I’m pregnant.” Within these statements, Rocket counters the stereotypes of Buck Wild. She continues by talking about her life, missing school, and the conflicts with her mother after telling her about the pregnancy. These conversations and thoughts are grounded in reality, not in stereotypes of pimps and mammies. As the issue progresses, Rocket and Icon encounter Buck Wild, who is under the control of Lysistrata Jones. During the fight, members from the community gather and begin to throw cans and yell at Icon. They tell him to get away from Buck Wild because he’s “one of the good guys.” One panel shows the crowd telling Icon that Buck Wild lets them pay in installments and that “he’s the only hero we got!” Here, again, we see the “played-out record” that Buck Wild references early on in the issue. If Buck Wild is the only representation, what does that do? What does that say? What mentality does that create? These are questions that Icon #13 works with. Buck Wild tells his origin story, which is basically Luke Cage’s, and Icon and Rocket break Jones’ control over him. He tells them, “Now, I remember ever’thin. It was 1972.” Rocket asks, “Your brain froze in 1972?” Buck Wild tells her, “Thas right.” The image of Buck Wild remains trapped in the past, unable to escape, move forward, evolve. He works in the realm of stereotype and eventually even nostalgia. Jones’, to a certain extent, represents this control as well, especially with her “P-whip.” It traps the person it ensnares in her control, a control steeped in blaxploitation stereotype. After they defeat Jones, Buck Wild tells Icon and Rocket, “Seein’ you taught me a lot. . . . Lookin’ at you makes me think. Mebbe if I hadn’t been frozen, I wouldn’t have to be like this. Meebe I can still be more than what I is now.” Icon and Rocket show Buck Wild that he does not have to exist as a stereotype, he can be his true self. Even with this recognition, though, the issue ends with Rocket telling him, “I wouldn’t count on it, Buck. You are what you is. And 1972 was a long time ago. Maybe it’s just time to move on.” Rocket’s comments signal that Buck Wild’s and Luke Cage’s time has passed. They do not need to change, they just need to fade away. Initially, Buck Wild was going to be a one-off character, and Icon #13 would be it. However, after fan response, McDuffie and crew brought him back, and readers began to see the change in his character that his interaction with Icon and Rocket sparked. All of this culminated in Icon #30 with Buck Wild’s funeral. Next post, I will continue looking at Buck Wild, focusing on his turn as Icon and on his funeral. Until then, what are your thoughts? Let me know either in the comments below or on Twitter at @silaslapham. If you enjoy what you read here at Interminable Rambling, think about making a contribution on our Patreon page.


--- [Milestone Media] ---
Milestone Media Company LLC is the media company which created the Milestone Comics line, which were published and distributed by DC Comics. Milestone Media created the source material that was adapted as the Static Shock animated series. The company was founded in 1993 by a coalition of African-American artists and writers, consisting of Dwayne McDuffie, Denys Cowan, Michael Davis, Derek T. Dingle and Christopher Priest. The founders felt that minorities were severely underrepresented in American comics and wished to address this.


--- [Milestone's Buck Wild Paid Homage to Marvel's Luke Cage - CBR] ---
Milestone Entertainment is known for adding more diversity to the comic book landscape, namely when it debuted back in the 1990s. Its characters were predominately Black, however, they certainly weren't the first Black superheroes in comics. Milestone actually honored the history of its predecessors, though it did so in a somewhat brusque way. Luke Cage is one of Marvel's main Black heroes, with his earliest comics emulating the blaxploitation films of the era. Nowadays, those classic comics seem more than a bit dated, and it's something that Milestone outright lampooned back in the day. This meant dragging down Luke Cage and several other Black heroes, albeit in a surprisingly reverent way. Milestone's Buck Wild Turned Luke Cage Into a Joke Buck Wild was created by Dwayne McDuffie and Mark Bright, debuting in Icon #13. Once the victim of an experiment meant to test cryogenics, a mishap instead gave him "tungsten-hard skin" and "belief-defyin' strength." Using his powers in the most overlooked parts of Dakota, he would become a "mercenary man" whose mannerisms and vernacular stayed mostly stuck in the 1970s. Down to Earth and from the streets, Buck Wild was the complete opposite of Icon. He would briefly run afoul of him and Rocket while under the control of his rival Lysistrata Jones, but when this was over, he instead became a staunch ally. In fact, he replaced Icon when he was briefly off-world, even educating himself and taking on a faux-intellectual mentality in order to fill the hero's shoes. Unfortunately, he was killed in action by Icon's enemy Oblivion, with his funeral revealing just how ridiculous he was. Throughout the years, he had temporarily affected several monikers, the likes of which were Buck Lightning, Buck Voodoo, Buck Goliath and Jim Crow. He would temporarily be brought back by one of his enemies, but when he finally welcomed death, even Icon was moved to speak on his behalf and defended the departed and strange individual. Thus, what started as a scathing take-down of older portrayals of Black superheroes became a touching tribute to them. Buck Wild Represented the Legacy of Black Superheroes Through Buck Wild, Dwayne McDuffie was obviously giving a less than flattering look back at the classic Luke Cage comics. Buck Wild is modeled directly after Cage, though he's certainly a bit more buffoonish. McDuffie was known for not exactly relating to the original interpretation of Cage, and the sentiment seems to have extended to other Black superheroes. Buck Wild's other alter egos are parodies of Brother Voodoo, Falcon, Black Goliath and Black Lightning, with "Buck Lightning" even being drawn to resemble the DC hero's design in the '90s. Ironically, the regal Black Panther was not lampooned, perhaps due to the writer's more positive feelings toward the character. For as ridiculous as Buck Wild was shown to be, he's still a hero who was looking out for his community long before Icon, Hardware and Static were in the picture. Icon notes this at his funeral, stating that, despite his sometimes questionable actions, he was a hero until the end who was deserving of respect. In doing so, McDuffie also validates the Black characters who had come before Milestone. Though they may not have always been written in the most flattering ways, they were still stepping stones that paved the way for Milestone's line-up of diverse heroes and creators. By showcasing that heroism is colorblind, classic characters such as Luke Cage did the same for the writers of their stories.


--- [Buck Wild - Milestone Comics - Icon ally - Character profile] ---
Buck Wild Context Buck Wild was one of the characters of the Milestone comic book publisher. If you’re not familiar with this universe, we suggest that you first read our character profile for Icon, as Buck Wild primarily appeared in his book. Buck was an over-the-top parody of many past Black super-heroes. The Buck Goliath, Jim Crow, Buck Lightning, and Buck Wild identities were based on Marvel Comics’s Black Goliath and the Falcon, DC’s Black Lightning, and Marvel’s Luke Cage, respectively. Buck Voodoo was a parody of Marvel’s Brother Voodoo, while the Kingfish was a satirical take on Black Lightning’s mob nemesis Tobias Whale, who was in many ways DC’s version of Marvel’s Kingpin. Advertisement Background - Real Name: Buck Wild - Other Aliases: Icon II - Marital Status: Single - Known Relatives: Unrevealed - Group Affiliation: Partner of Rocket II - Base Of Operations: Paris Island, Dakota City, USA - Height: 6’2” Weight: 400 lbs - Eyes: Brown Hair: Black Powers & Abilities Strength Level Buck Wild possesses superhuman strength enabling him to lift (press) at least 3 tons under optimal conditions. Known Superhuman Powers As a result of the experimental process he participated in, Buck Wild possesses superhuman strength and “tungsten hard” skin. His skin is durable enough to resist high caliber gunfire at close range, and is capable of absorbing the force of the impact of objects weighing as much as 1 ton with no visible signs of injury. Abilities Outside of his raw physical power, Buck Wild is an accomplished street fighter with decades of experience. Advertisement History In 1972, the young man named Buck Wild found himself in trouble with the law. He was arrested and sentenced to prison, but for a lesser crime than the one he actually committed (he plea-bargained for a lesser charge). While in prison, Buck decided that he would be a model prisoner, and take the time to educate himself and go “straight.” Unfortunately for Buck, he encountered a particularly racist guard while in prison. As it turned out, Buck had dated his sister for a while, and the guard had taken exception to it. After receiving a particularly nasty beating from the guard, Buck realized that he most likely would not survive his prison sentence, much less make parole. In order to escape the guard’s attentions, Buck volunteered to take part in a cutting edge experiment which would put its subjects into a state of cryogenic sleep. In exchange for his participation, he would have a few years removed from his sentence. As it turned out, the experiment was flawed and the equipment exploded. As the smoke cleared, Buck stood unharmed and empowered with “belief-defyin’ strength” and “tungsten-hard skin.” A few weeks after the accident, Buck Wild was selected to take part in a weekend furlough program. Recognizing the opportunity his powers afforded him, he immediately started advertising for his services as “Buck Wild, Mercenary Man, Hero for Rent!” Mercenary Man ! Ever eclectic, Buck found himself unable to settle on a single alias or even look for his superheroic identity. He swapped identities from time to time, coming up with new aliases including: Buck Goliath, Jim Crow, and Buck Lightning, but in the end he always returned to his original (and favourite) identity. No matter what name he fought under, Buck battled crime and corruption for a fee. He smashed drug rings, and battled gangs. He quickly built a reputation as a hero amongst the impoverished African Americans that lived in the low-income areas he frequented. Despite the fact that he was a mercenary, the inhabitants quickly realized that Buck had their best intentions at heart, especially when they realized that he had been lowering his prices and accepting payments in instalments in order to help every and anyone who needed it. Icon Buck eventually crossed paths with Dakota City’s premier superhero, Icon, when he fell under the influence of Lysistrata Jones, a local drug lord. Lysistrata had the power to enslave men’s minds, and to be honest, Buck’s mind was an easy target. Icon’s partner Rocket had taken it upon herself to break-up one of the few remaining crack-houses left on Paris Island in order to release some of her frustration (she had recently discovered that she was pregnant). The crack-house belonged to Lysistrata. When Icon arrived (to calm Rocket down), Lysistrata sent Buck to drive them away. Buck Wild battled Icon with all of his “belief defyin’” strength, but ultimately proved to be no match for the might of the Hero of Dakota. Icon ultimately freed Buck from Lysistrata’s influence and the two men decided to bring her to justice. Almost comically, when the two men confronted her they were both immediately overwhelmed by Lysistrata’s influence. It was only the timely appearance of Rocket and a single well placed punch that freed them both from her power once more. Replacement Hero Several months later, Buck found himself approached by two teenaged girls who were looking for a replacement for Icon. The older of the two, Raquel revealed that due to her own pregnancy and Icon’s return to his own people, that the city of Dakota needed replacement heroes. Out of all of the people that she had approached, Buck was the best to play the part of Icon. Buck was honoured at being chosen, and was still inspired by his previous meeting with Icon, graciously accepted. He went to work immediately, studying black literature intensely in the attempts to improve his knowledge of his people and to improve his vocabulary. After a few short weeks (and a slight alteration of Icon’s original costume), Buck assumed the costumed identity of Icon and continued to fight the good fight against anyone who would threaten the peace within Dakota City. Oblivion Buck’s good fortune came to an end when the homicidal alien Oblivion arrived in Dakota seeking vengeance on Icon. Oblivion had murdered dozens of innocents by the time Buck had arrived on the scene. Fearless to the point of overconfidence, Buck engaged the psychotic alien in a one on one battle. Despite the vast difference in their strengths, Buck continued to fight until he moment when Oblivion ultimately delivered a mortal wound through his chest. Though Oblivion was defeated by the original Icon, Buck eventually succumbed to his wounds while convalescing in a hospital. He was temporarily resurrected as Buck Voodoo by one of his oldest foes, the Kingfish, who was enraged that Buck died at another’s hands. Upon his resurrection, Buck initially attempted to kill the Kingfish, but ended up surrendering to death once more after Darnice (Rocket II) convinced him that his time had passed. Description Buck Wild was a tall African American male. He had a broad and wide chest, and had layers of thick muscle that ran across the entirety of his body. His features were fairly typical of those found in African American males and his skin was a dark brown. He styled his hair into a thick afro and held it in shape using a golden headband. His original persona’s costume was a simple one. It consisted of golden bikini briefs, an open sleeveless shirt, boots, and head- and wristbands. As Icon II, Buck wore a modified version of Icon’s original costume. His version still consisted of a skin-tight red body suit that covers him from head to toe, except for a large triangular hole that sat directly within the centre of his chest. The significance of this gap is still unknown at this time. The rest of the costume was identical to the original. It was accessorized with golden thigh and armbands, a golden ring that sits prominently in the centre of his massive chest, grey gloves and boots, a black domino mask that made his eyes appear to be pupil-less and a disproportionately long green cape. Personality Buck Wild was a simple, gregarious man. He embraced life to the fullest and did his best to help the less fortunate that surrounded him. He worked hard and did the best with what little he had. When empowered by the experiment he still chose to go “straight” rather than succumb to the negative emotions that surrounded him. Even though Buck spent most of his life as a “Mercenary Man!”, he genuinely cared about the community that surrounded him. He would often help those who needed it for free (or at the very least at a steeply reduced price). After he encountered Icon and Rocket, Buck improved himself through sheer force of will. Over time he completely altered his manner of speech, shed his 1970’s blaxploitation façade, educated himself and became a genuine true to life hero. Quotes “Bullets bounce offa my tungsten-hard skin like they was chicklets !” “Once I lay a taste o’ my belief-defying strength on you, you’ll be out of the count in a Uncle Ben’s instant !” “Fear not, fair maiden. As long as I draw breath, the forces of good shall e‘er have a champion. So swears ICON !” “Many thanks, my Nubian sister. This is just another example of how cooperation between Black men and women will lift our race to parity with the oppressors.” “You ran a red light, my brother. Don’t you have any respect for your people ? A black man invented the stoplight ! ” (While interrupting Oblivion’s attack on Rocket II) Oblivion: “I won’t stop myself. And you can’t stop me.” Buck Wild: “She doesn’t have to … I will.” (To Oblivion while they first clash) “I guess it shouldn’t surprise me that I don’t got… ah don’t have any idea what you’re talking about. I didn’t used to understand much of anything. But that was before I met Icon. He taught me that I could be more that what I was before. Well sir, he was right. Now I am Icon. And I may not be as good as he was. But I’m more that good enough to stop you.” (While Oblivion beat and eventually mortally wounds him) “I… used to take out punks like you… fo’ money… but this one… this one’s on… the house…” DC Universe History With the merger that occurred between DC and Milestone Universes during the “World’s Collide” Crossover, it is apparent that the Milestone Universe is one of the alternate universes that remained after the Crisis. With this in mind, all of the events of Icon actually occurred in the DC Universe, and that Icon or Rocket could be encountered by the player characters through the clever application of the Dimensional Travel power. After the events of the Infinite Crisis and the New 52, the characters of the Milestone Universe are folded directly into the DC Universe, and Dakota city is presumed to have been always present. Marvel Universe History If Luke Cage (a.k.a. Power Man) also exists in your campaign they may have been subjected to the same treatment (since Buck Wild is an obvious Power Man clone). With both characters in the same universe, one of them should be played with a different personality to avoid redundancy. One possibility is that Buck Wild could actually accept a job with the local police department. This might bring him into conflict with Luke Cage, particularly if Wild falls into the unfortunate habit of some American minority police officers to be unusually harsh on members of their own ethnic group. If Wild was employed in such a manner, he would have to have established his innocence or received some form of special dispensation, since a felony record would normally prohibit one from becoming a police officer. Game Stats — DC Heroes RPG Tell me more about the game stats Buck Wild Genre: Near Real | Dex: 05 | Str: 08 | Bod: 07 | Motivation: Upholding the Good (Mercenary Initially) | | Int: 02 | Wil: 02 | Min: 02 | Occupation: Mercenary | | Inf: 04 | Aur: 06 | Spi: 05 | Resources {or Wealth}: 002 | | Init: 011 | HP: 025 | Powers: Density Increase: 01, Jumping: 03, Skin Armor: 04 Bonuses and Limitations: - Density Increase is Always On, and already factored into his stats. - Jumping is Contingent on STR. Skills: None demonstrated. Advantages: Local Hero (Paris Island). Connections: Rocket I (Low), Rocket II (High). Drawbacks: CIA to Speaking Superfluously, Miscellaneous (Criminal Record), Oblivious, Public Identity, SIA to Not Hitting Women. Equipment: ICON COSTUME [BODY 04, Gliding: 02]. Design notes Dropped Buck’s STR by an AP since he’s never really displayed strength greater than the character he is clearly an homage to; “Luke Cage: Powerman”. Source of Character: DC Comics Milestone Imprint Series – Icon, created by Dwayne McDuffie (Writer) & MD Bright (Artist). Helper(s): Kynn Bartlett (v1.2), JD Marquart, Roy Cowan. Helpers for the previous version – Brian & University of Scranton, Roy Cowan, The Milestone Rave and Dwayne McDuffie’s website . Writeup completed on the 11th of January, 2013.


--- [Top 20 Black Superheroes-Milestone Edition - WorldofBlackHeroes] ---
This is the list of my top 20 black superheroes/villains from Milestone comics. Why 20? Well 2013 is Milestone comic’s 20th anniversary so it would be an injustice to countdown any more or any less. Now many of you don’t know anything about Milestone you were just too damn young but hopefully this list will be enlightening and informative at the same time. Thank you to the founders of Milestone Media INC. Dwayne McDuffie, Denys Cowan, Michael Davis and Derek T. Dingle! You guys created a truly diverse universe, fully realized that has touched the heart and minds of millions. I can also tell you based on website traffic they continue to touch even more every single day, regardless of not being on the shelves. I would also like to thank all the artists and writers who helped mold the characters over the last twenty years. Finally RIP to Dwayne McDuffie a truly great talent gone far too soon! MILESTONE FOREVER! 1. Rocket Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Icon #1, May 1993 Brief Biography: Raquel Ervin is an outspoken young black woman who is the first teenage mother in comics, the woman who inspired Augustus Freeman into becoming Icon and later becomes his partner. As the superhero Rocket, Raquel uses an inertia belt which allows her to fly, re-channel kinetic energy and even form shields. Why she’s here: I can honestly say watching Rocket consider an abortion as a teen was one of the most touching moments I’ve ever had with a fictional character. Entering the clinic and the eventual changing of her mind despite her family thinking she should just ‘get rid’ of the problem is beautiful. Milestone really got under my skin and stayed there after Raquel Irvin decided to keep her child and not take the easy route out of her problem. 2. Hardware Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Hardware #1, 1993 Curtis Metcalf was blessed with a prodigious intellect in the art of computing, electronics, metallurgy. At a young age Edwin Alva took him under his wing and Curtis’ creations single-handedly made Alva billions. Upon realizing that his father figure was corrupt and he was held in little regard he rebelled. Creating the identity of Hardware he waged a one man war against Alva and his corrupt company. Over the course of his career he helped Icon repair his ship, befriended Rocket and supplied technology to Static during the new 52. Why he’s here: Hardware grew on me especially after I started working and realized that Curtis’ work environment mirrors most of our realities. Thankfully I managed to escape the ‘cage’ and soar free. Hardware however was my inspiration of never settling and demanding that if my worth can’t be acknowledge it’s time to go! ~DIG DEEPER INTO HARDWARE HERE~ 3. Masquerade Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Blood Syndicate#1, May 1993 Brief Biography: The young woman who would come to be known as only Masquerade has a past shrouded in mystery. From an early age he realized his gender identity did not match his physical body; he was a man trapped in a woman’s body. After the Big Bang he gained the power to shape shift and immediately used these abilities to make his body reflect what’s always been in his mind, becoming physically a man. Masquerade has been both an ally and enemy of the Blood Syndicate over the years. Why he here: He Masquerade was the very first transgendered character I had ever encountered. Before Masquerade I didn’t even know what transgendered meant!The guys at Milestone also made this a complete non-issue which even by today’s ‘progressive’ standards is unheard of. ~DIG DEEPER INTO MASQUERADE HERE~ 4. Wise Son Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Blood Syndicate#1, May 1993 Brief Biography: As a gang member in Dakota he was present at the Big Bang event. He came from the event with superhuman abilities and joined the Blood Syndicate. When he discovered he was indestructible he took it as a sign of a ‘holy mission”. After teammate Tech-9 died he took the mantle of leadership. He is a hard-line Islamic fundamentalist in many respects and continuously attempts to steer the Blood Syndicate towards these beliefs. Why he’s here: Honestly there is still widespread misconception when it comes to Islam. When I first released Hannibal’s biography a few Americans noted he was the first ‘re-usable’ suicide bomber, yeah they went there. With Marvel so excited by their Muslim Ms. Marvel it must be noted Milestone did it first! Hannibal started out as a woman hating man of violence but matured into a great level-headed leader and a man who took fatherhood very seriously. Assalaam-O-Alaikum! ~DIG DEEPER INTO WISE SON HERE~ Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Icon #1, May 1993 Brief Biography: Arnus is an alien who crash landed on earth during slavery and took on the appearance of a black human. He is equal in power to DC Comics Superman. As Augustus Freeman he was a lawyer who later becomes Dakota’s premier superhero after a chance encounter with Raquel Irvin/Rocket. After the merger of DC and Milestone he was shown to be friends with Superman. Why he’s here: Every fan knows I love me some Icon! But those above him have appeal not just to the comic fan but also on a socially conscious level. Everyone above Icon I can take into my classroom and teach a life lesson. Icon now is noteworthy for having lived the African-American experience from its colonial origins to its modern potential. Icon is a self actualized, though very separate from humanity kinda man. The Superman power levels and parallel also make him very popular. 6. Static Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Denys Cowan, Dwayne McDuffie, Derek Dingle, Christopher Priest and Micheal Davis 1st appearance: Static #1, 1993 Brief Biography: Virgil “Static” Hawkins was exposed to a mutagenic gas that swept his city of Dakota, which gave him and other ‘bang babies’ superpowers. With the ability to control electromagnetism, Static joined the Teen Titans and continued to protect his city while serving on the team. During DC Comics new 52 he moved to New York and starred in his own ongoing title which was among the first wave of cancellations. Why he’s here: I know your all roasting me on an open fire for not putting Static first but sue me I just don’t think he’s more noteworthy or did we ever connect the same way as those above him. Static is Milestone’s biggest and best success story to date! Easily the most recognizable Milestone character thanks to his very popular Static Shock t.v series. 7. Holocauste Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Blood Syndicate #1, April 1993 Brief Biography: Leonard smalls Jr. was the son of Dakota mayor/Thomasina Jefferson and her husband Leonard Sr. He was always a sadistic and cold person but stepped over the line when on his sixteenth birthday he killed his father. Taking to the street he joined a local gang where he made plans to take over the Dakota underground. At the Big Bang he was the only member of his group to survive. Holocauste then joined with the other survivors of the event to form ‘The Blood Syndicate” but unlike them was cruel, power-hungry and sadistic. Why he’s here: Hands down there is no greater supervillain in Milestone history than Holocauste. He has awesome power, incredible design and is just straight up built for evil. Even DC realized his potential when they incorporated Milestone into their continuity and Holocauste found himself up against Black Lightning. ~DIG DEEPER INTO HOLOCAUSTE HERE~ 8. Buckwild Publisher: Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Icon#13, 1994 Brief Biography: In 1972 Rufus was wrongfully convicted of a crime he didn’t commit, he plea bargained down from the crime he did commit and sentenced to jail. Inside he was abused by the prison guards, realizing he wouldn’t survive his sentence he volunteered for an experiment involving cryogenics. Unfortunately the experiment went terribly wrong, only his brain was frozen before his containment unit exploded. A side effect of this experiment he was granted superhuman strength. When Icon took a brief hiatus he served as his replacement. Why he’s here: Honestly Buck wild will change how you look at the blaxploitation era of comics and especially classic Luke Cage. Buckwild is a superhero parody of epic proportions and arguably the funniest black character in comics’ period! ~DIG DEEPER INTO BUCK WILD HERE~ Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Static #33, 1996 Brief Biography: A small time crook caught in the Big Bang event which killed thousands but granted a handful superhuman abilities. A relative unknown until he challenged Static Shock to a battle on national TV where Static embarrassed him and he fled vowing revenge. He would later resurface as a member of a bang baby supervillain team and captured Static’s girlfriend Frieda. His team was defeated and he wound up behind bars.Why he’s here: To the masses, that is the non comic book fan community this is the most popular villain Milestone had to offer thanks in no small part to a recurring role on the Static Shock Tv series. I like his power set but think his comic book version needs a redesign. ~DIG DEEPER INTO RUBBER BAND MAN HERE~ 10. Fade Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Blood Syndicate #1, April 1993 Brief Biography: Carlos joined the force syndicate with his sister Flashback in order to help them assimilate after moving to the US from Panama. He knew from early on that he was gay. While in the force syndicate he fell in love with Tech-9 one of the founding members of Force Syndicate, though Tech-9 had no idea Carlos’ true feelings. His gang-banger lifestyle left a strained relationship with himself and his father. On the night of the Big Bang event he was one of many gang members to attend the event.Why he’s here: Now back in the 90’s when I was homophobic because I had never met an openly gay person before, Fade came on the scene. He was not effeminate or flamboyant, He was truly just like everyone else. This revelation blew my mind back then and stayed with me ever since. 11. Technique Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Hardware #9, 1993 Brief Biography: Tiffany was always a brilliant woman so when she chose to become a cyberneticist it was no shock. After achieving her doctorate her skills caught the attention of Edwin Alva. She was given her own staff to put an end to Hardware. She made fast friends with Kurt Metcalf who assisted her as the head of the “Anti-Hardware ” team. It was her idea to use a female pilot for their own version of a power suit since the female pilot would be lighter making the armor more maneuverable. Upon the armors completion it was named “Technique”. Why she’s here: In the Dakota Hardware was quite possibly the smartest man on earth. Technique was a woman who could go toe to toe with him, intellectually and physically. She was the yin to Hardware’s Yang in every sense of the word. It also doesn’t hurt that Mcduffie planned for her to be Hardware’s successor as chronicled in ‘Milestone Forever’. Don’t sweat the Technique! ~DIG DEEPER INTO TECHNIQUE HERE~ 12. D-Struct Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Static #12 Brief Biography: An ex-gang member who was caught up in the big bang event. After surviving that ordeal he quit the gang and returned to high school to finish his senior year and graduate. When surviving gang members learned he was alive he was attacked for what they saw as abandonment. Using his powers he fought them off and came to the attention of static shock. He later clashed with static when said gang members captured his father. Together they defeated the gang and him and his father left Dakota to find a better life. He got a job with Alva Technologies and teamed up with Hardware later. Why he’s here: Damon is a good example of someone who started out doing wrong and turned his life around. That’s inspirational! ~DIG DEEPER INTO D-STRUCT HERE~ 13. Virus Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Static #9, 1993 Brief Biography: After his father left them both, Virus followed his mother into the streets where she became a crack addict who abused him constantly. Despite his large size he suffers from an unspecified mental illness that gives him the mental ability of a child. He eventually joined the force syndicate, Dakota’s “Misfit” Gang because they treated him with care. For this surrogate family he began stealing. Then came the Big Bang, his gang was killed and he discovered he had been granted super powers. Virus then lived under a mall where he stole to survive. Befriended by Static he was taken to St. Peter’s mission where he still resides. Why he’s here: Like many others on my list this was the first time I had seen a grown man with the mind of a child. What was more interesting was his sad life and his longing for acceptance. People do many bad things but a very simple reason for that is what we all want…to be accepted, embraced and loved. Food for thought even twenty years later. 14. Starlight Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Shadow Cabinet #7, 1994 Brief Biography: Stella was a girl who always had an aptitude for mathematics, to this end upon graduating from High School she enrolled in a college level degree of said subject. It was here that she witnessed her college professor using an experimental Tachyon telescope for a teleportational experiment. It went horribly wrong and he was being bombarded by cosmic rays. Fearing for his life she pushed him out-of-the-way and took the full brunt of the cosmic rays and radiation. She was transformed into a human pulsar. She was found by Hardware who used his technology to help stabilize her powers and help her control them. Why she’s here: I’ve always like her design and all of her appearances after her debut suggest she was going to be a major player in Dakota. With her power set she’s a female Static, easy! ~DIG DEEPER INTO STARLIGHT HERE~ 15. Flashback Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Blood Syndicate #1, April 1993 Brief Biography: At the Big Bang Flashback was one of only a handful of people to survive the massacre. After the incident she gained superhuman powers and joined the Blood Syndicate. For awhile she dated teammate and then leader Holocaust. Because of the nature of her power she was used as a fail-safe for her teammates when in hectic situations. If anyone was mortally wounded she would travel back in time and prevent them from dyeing. Over time however this took a toll on her psyche since she had memories of all her friends being horrifically killed. To compensate for the nightmares which haunted her she turned to cocaine use. Why she’s here: As a kid I thought all junkies or drug users were just bad people. Sara put a different spin on things, humanizing drug use and the reason we do it. Plus by overcoming her addiction she serves as inspiration for those trying to recover. ~DIG DEEPER INTO FLASHBACK HERE~ 16. Tech 9 Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Blood Syndicate #1, April 1993 Brief Biography: Tech-9 was a loyal founding member of the Paris Bloods, on the night of the Big Bang, he was blessed with the ultimate compliment to his natural marksmanship ability-no weapon he holds ever runs out of ammunition. His obsession with military strategy and discipline won him the leadership of the Blood Syndicate. He led the team and even successfully defended his leadership mantle from the more physically powerful Holocaust/Pyre. His powers were unstable however and his body liquefied soon after killing him instantly. Why he’s here: Tech was the guy who took the remnants of two gangs and made them a superhero team fighting to save their community. Without him they may have ended up villains. Tech also served as the first example that being a “Bang Baby” could kill you. 17. Rocket 2 Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Icon #4, 1993 Brief Biography: Darnice grew up with Raquel in Dakota since they were young children. They eventually became best friends. Darnice was the only person to whom Raquel confided that she was Rocket and that she was pregnant. When the original Rocket was close to giving birth she had no choice but to stop being a superhero temporarily. To this end Darnice was given the mantle of Rocket and the powers. Raquel trained her in the proper use of the powers and she was teamed with Buck Wild who became a temporary Icon.Why she’s here: Honestly there was no greater friendship for me than Darnice and Raquel. They were really down for each other and trust me the conversation they had about sex in Icon #4 makes me chuckle even today! Darnice proved that you don’t need superpowers to be a superhero when she convinced Buckwild to accept death and move on. ~DIG DEEPER INTO ROCKT II HERE~ 18. DMZ Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Blood Syndicate #1, April 1993 Brief Biography: When a member of the D’masi police force chased an intergalactic criminal to earth. An African-American man stepped in between her and certain death resulting with him mortally wounded. Grateful to the lower life form for his sacrifice she used her people’s advanced technology to heal him and in the process unlocked his full potential and enhanced him. After this she left earth promising to return for him one day. After the Big Bang event he became the most mysterious member of the super human team the Blood Syndicate. Why he’s here: DMZ was the most intriguing mystery posed by the original Milestone line of books. We had never seen his face, his power was vague and his connection to Icon just really drove us crazy. When the great Dwayne Mcduffie revealed his past on a comic book forum years of head scratching and speculating had ended and I was sold! 19. Oblivion Publisher: Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Icon #22 Brief Biography: A long time ago before Arnus came to Earth he sentenced Kali’lkak to isolation though he did not wish to do so because he was unable to live among civilized beings. Though his isolation was as comfortable as any citizens everyday life he did not view it as an act of mercy. Before he was sentenced to isolation though he decided to hurt Arnus and thus sabotaged his ship resulting in his crash landing on earth and him eventually becoming Icon. His exile was supposed to be rehabilitative but he left what he called a “prison planet” after killing his therapists he went on a rampage across the galaxy on his way to Earth to kill Icon. After killing over three hundred life forms he took to calling himself Oblivion. Why he’s here: Like the lady below him he was not on my initial list but he’s the most evil, vile sadistic villain Milestone had to offer. Like the Joker, Bullseye or Sabretooth he takes joy in his villainy. His powers also allow him to take on any shape and even kill superhumans. If Milestone ever had a villain who could jeopardize the whole of Dakota, it’s OBLIVION! ~DIG DEEPER INTO OBLIVION HERE~ 20. Lysistrata Jones Publisher:Milestone Media INC. Created by: Dwayne McDuffie and Denys Cowan 1st appearance: Icon #13, 1996 Brief Biography: The self-styled arch nemesis of BuckWild, Mercenary Man. She developed a unique but effective fighting style from viewing countless hours of cheesy martial-arts films. After a similar marathon session of viewing a series of ‘Blaxploitation’ films, she decided to become the “Black Queen of Crime” (or ‘Queen of Black Crime,: she’s still deciding which). In addition to her criminal genius, she is a talented choreographer. She met Buckwild at some undisclosed point in the past. He tried to thwart her latest plan by taking out her gang but she escaped after ensnaring him with her ‘P-whip’. Why she’s here: I had two other characters in mind but could not pass up on Ms. Jones. Like Buckwild she’s a combination of Blaxploitation jokes, Wonder Woman’s lasso of truth and a dose of reality. She controls men with her P-whip. Get it? Black dudes be getting pu**y whipped all the time and this vixen is its symbolic manifestation! ~DIG DEEPER INTO LYSISTRATA JONES HERE~ There you have it guys, in no particular order of course, so don’t freak out that Static or Icon were not number one. If your favorite didn’t make the list leave us a comment below on why they should be included. Also be sure to leave us a comment on what Milestone comics meant to you as a fan, some founders peruse the website so this is your chance to let them know how their work inspired or changed your life. Also below is the fan edition of the this list so VOTE! VOTE! VOTE! So your favorite can get the top spot! While we celebrate drop by our store and buy TPB’s from the Milestone collection!! [polldaddy poll=”7642851″]
