=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[George Avakian - Wikipedia]
Promotional photo of George Avakian for Hot Jazz Classics Series, 1946 George Mesrop Avakian (Armenian: Ջորջ (Գևորգ) Ավագյան; Russian: Геворк Авакян; March 15, 1919 - November 22, 2017) was an American record producer, artist manager, writer, educator and executive. Best known for his work from 1939 to the early 1960s at Decca Records, Columbia Records, World ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Avakian

[archives.nypl.org -- George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian papers]
The George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian papers (1908-2016) document the careers and lives of the producer and violinist through audio and video recordings; personal and professional correspondence; photographs; scrapbooks; published and unpublished writings and speeches; contracts and other business papers; scores; clippings; programs; awards ...
URL: https://archives.nypl.org/mus/22589

[Tempo]
magazine, which was Avakian's first professional writing assignment. Avakian soon became an expert on recorded jazz in an era when very little information about the music was published.
URL: https://nyplorg-data-archives.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/collection/generated_xml/mus22589.xml

[Hot Five Centennial Celebration Part 5: George Avakian and the Release of “ ...]
“I’m home at last, taking it easy...I think I’ll be there for four weeks...Wee..A chance to sort of hang around home and catch up on some of my many things I’d like to do...Such as recordings...And I have lots...” —Louis Armstrong in a letter to Monte Ballou, March 10, 1954 Welcome ...
URL: https://virtualexhibits.louisarmstronghouse.org/2025/12/12/hot-five-centennial-celebration-part-5-george-avakian-and-the-release-of-king-louis/

[George Avakian | National Endowment for the Arts]
In 1940, he was asked by Columbia to produce the industry's first annotated reissue album series, called Hot Jazz Classics, which included seminal out-of-print selections from Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, Bix Beiderbecke, Fletcher Henderson, and Duke Ellington. He included the first-ever unreleased and alternate takes in the series. In effect, he had created the first history of jazz on records. After service in the U.S. Army during World War II, Avakian began his 12-year tenure as a Columbia Records executive, eventually presiding over its Popular Music and International Divisions.
URL: https://www.arts.gov/honors/jazz/george-avakian


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [George Avakian - Wikipedia] ---
George Mesrop Avakian (Armenian: Ջորջ (Գևորգ) Ավագյան; Russian: Геворк Авакян; March 15, 1919 – November 22, 2017) was an American record producer, artist manager, writer, educator and executive. Best known for his work from 1939 to the early 1960s at Decca Records, Columbia Records, World Pacific Records, Warner Bros. Records, and RCA Records, he was a major force in the expansion and development of the U.S. recording industry. Avakian functioned as an independent producer and manager from the 1960s to the early 2000s and worked with artists such as Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Dave Brubeck, Eddie Condon, Keith Jarrett, Erroll Garner, Buck Clayton, Sonny Rollins, Paul Desmond, Edith Piaf, Bob Newhart, Johnny Mathis, John Cage, Alan Hovhaness, Ravi Shankar, and many other notable jazz musicians and composers.


--- [archives.nypl.org -- George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian papers] ---
Scope and arrangement The George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian papers (1908-2016) document the careers and lives of the producer and violinist through audio and video recordings; personal and professional correspondence; published and unpublished writings and speeches; contracts and other business papers; scores; clippings; scrapbooks; photographs; awards; posters; and visual art. The bulk of the collection consists of audio and video recordings; correspondence; writings; and photographs illustrating George Avakian's career as a recording producer and artist manager. The collection is arranged in four series: George Avakian Papers; Anahid and Maro Ajemian Papers; Photographs; and Audio and Video Recordings. Series I: George Avakian papers dates from 1913 to 2016. It details his work producing, managing, or assisting a wide variety of musicians and recording artists; how he helped develop those artists' careers and art; the history of Avakian's careers at Columbia, World Pacific, Warner Brothers, and RCA Records; and his later projects as an independent manager and producer. Broadly, the papers show the development of the recording industry over the course of his career. They reveal the intertwined histories through personal and professional correspondence with recording artists or their management; correspondence with other record industry figures; published and unpublished articles, liner notes, essays, and historical accounts by Avakian; clippings; record company memos; business, recording, and production notes; touring information; contracts; publicity material; a scrapbook; awards; posters; visual art; and photographs. Many of Avakian's writings were created with the intention of compiling a memoir of his career which he never completed. Series II: Anahid and Maro Ajemian papers, dating from 1919 to 2016, documents the lives and careers of George Avakian's wife, the violinist Anahid Ajemian, and her sister, the pianist Maro Ajemian. They contain biographical papers on both musicians; files on individual performances by the Ajemians as a duo and as solo artists; annotated scores; scrapbooks; clippings; contracts; publicity material; letters from the composers Lou Harrison, Edgard Varèse, John Cage, and Alan Hovhaness; and obituaries and memorial tributes for Maro Ajemian. The scores include pieces for violin and violin/piano duo, as well as compositions performed by the Composers String Quartet. Composers represented include Alan Hovhaness, Milton Babbitt, Elliott Carter, Henry Cowell, John Cage, Mel Powell, Lou Harrison, Ben Weber, Gunther Schuller, and others. Series III: Photographs dates from 1908 to 2012. It includes images of Avakian or Ajemian with various musicians and colleagues, as well as candid, publicity, or performance photographs of those musicians, some never published. These include such figures as Louis Armstrong, Maro Ajemian, Dave Brubeck, the Composers String Quartet, Henry Cowell, Miles Davis, Eric Dolphy, Duke Ellington, Gil Evans, Benny Goodman, Alan Hovhaness, Keith Jarrett, Charles Lloyd, Johnny Mathis, Sonny Rollins, and Ravi Shankar. Also present are portraits of Avakian, some by Carl Van Vechten and William Gottlieb, and photographs of the Avakian and Ajemian families. Series IV: Audio and Video recordings, numbering over 2200 items, represents the work of George Avakian, Anahid Ajemian, and a large set of recording artists, including Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong, Charles Lloyd, Sonny Rollins, Maro Ajemian, the Composers String Quartet, Duke Ellington, Paul Desmond, Dave Brubeck, William Masselos, Keith Jarrett, and many others. The recordings, many previously unheard, include unique recording sessions and live performances; interviews and oral histories; radio and television broadcasts; lectures and panel discussions; home recordings by Louis Armstrong and George Avakian; sound and video documentaries; and more. The collection also contains sound and video associated with the film editor and director Aram Avakian. An audio recording in the collection contains racial language some may find offensive. The George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian papers are arranged in four series: - 1913-2016 Series I documents George Avakian's personal history and his working and personal relationships with key 20th century musicians and artists, both American and foreign, from his time with major recording labels (1938 to the mid-1960s), to his independent work from the mid-1960s onward, to his later work on reissues of his classic productions. The series also gives evidence to his relationships with other key figures in the music and recording industries, such as producers, scholars, and writers, from the United States and other nations. The series holds personal and business correspondence; business and management records; Avakian's notes and writings throughout his career; Avakian's military files; and a scrapbook. Artists with the most representation in this series are Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Keith Jarrett, and Charles Lloyd. Other artists with substantial documentation include Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, John Cage, Sonny Rollins, Dave Brubeck, Wild Bill Davison, Paul Desmond, John Eaton, the Everly Brothers, Erroll Garner, Alan Hovhaness, Dick Hyman, Johnny Mathis, Helen Merrill, Turk Murphy, Bob Newhart, Orchestra U.S.A., and Ravi Shankar. Other major topics covered in the papers include the development of Columbia Records during Avakian's time with the company; Avakian's World War II army service and his writings during it; the film Jazz On A Summer's Day; the Music for Moderns concert series; the Newport Jazz Festival; jazz in the Soviet Union; jazz history; and the commercial and technical development of the recording business. These files contain correspondence with producers, musicians, researchers, and journalists; Avakian's writings on the subjects; concert programs; and clippings. Smaller file sets contain correspondence with musicians, colleagues, and friends, and detail many recording or performance projects which Avakian produced or helped assemble from the 1970s to the 2010s. As a general rule, artists and projects recorded for Columbia Records have little contemporaneous documentation in the collection (apart from photographs) because Avakian did not take his office files with him when he departed the company. Instead, Columbia projects are evidenced by correspondence regarding reissue projects, writings, clippings, and interview transcripts. Contemporaneous documents are more common for World Pacific, Warner Brothers, and RCA productions. Major portions of this series document work done on reissues of albums, not the original productions. In addition to the subseries descriptions below, further description of file contents can be found in the container list. - 1919-2016 This series documents the careers of the Ajemian sisters, both as a duo and as solo artists. It holds annotated scores of works performed or recorded by the Ajemians or the Composers String Quartet; letters to the sisters and the Avakian family from Alan Hovhaness, Ernst Krenek, Lou Harrison, John Cage, and Edgard Varèse; scrapbooks; performance-related files; and other topical files. The scores hold pieces that in many cases were premiered or recorded by the Ajemians, and often contain performance notes. Consisting of both published editions and manuscript copies, they include works by Elliott Carter, Henry Cowell, Mario Davidovsky, David Del Tredici, George Edwards, Gene Gutchë, Lou Harrison, Alan Hovhaness, Ben Johnston, Toshiro Mayuzumi, Mel Powell, Wallingford Reigger, Ottorino Respighi, Dane Rudhyar, Gunther Schuller, Seymour Shifrin, Carlos Surinach, Ben Weber, Anton Webern, Henry Weinberg, and Charles Whittenberg.. They are arranged alphabetically by composer. The music by Hovhaness includes Suite for Violin, Piano, and Percussion; Three Visions of Saint Mesrop; Shatakh; Arshalouis; and Concerto No. 2 for Violin and String Orchestra (violin part only). The score for Reigger's Sonatina for Violin and Piano was used for the Ajemians' recording of the piece, and is autographed by Riegger. The score for Rudhyar's Three Poems contains 1993 correspondence between Anahid Ajemian and Maureen Nevins discussing the piece. Scores performed by the Composers String Quartet includes four of Carter's string quartets, and quartets by Mayazumi, Powell, Respighi, Weinberg, and Whittenberg. Letters from Alan Hovhaness, Lou Harrison, and Ernst Krenek are filed under their names. All other letters, including those from John Cage and Edgard Varèse, are filed separately under letters. The letters from Alan Hovhaness to Maro Ajemian are substantial, dating from 1940 to 1950. They also contain 1991 letters from George Avakian describing the pivotal roles played by the Ajemian sisters and Dr. Elizabeth Gregory in the early stages of Hovhaness's career. The performance-related files hold programs, contracts, clippings, photographs and publicity flyers regarding concert appearances by both Ajemians dating from 1944 to 1983. Files for the Composers String Quartet document its history through clippings, programs, press releases, and correspondence. Also present are files on the quartet's recordings of music by Elliott Carter and Henry Cowell, and files regarding international tours by the quartet. Files for tours sponsored by the State Department contain final reports submitted to the government. Other files in this series hold biographies of the Ajemians and the Composers String Quartet; clippings; programs; handbills; publicity material; and a scrapbook of clippings and programs regarding Maro Ajemian's early performances. They also evidence George Avakian's efforts to persuade the U.S. State Department to arrange a 1960 performance by Maro Ajemian in Moscow featuring the music of Aram Khachaturian (filed under Khachaturian); recordings by both Ajemians for CBS and RCA Records (filed under the respective companies); performances and tours of the Composers String Quartet from 1972 to 1983; the Diocese of the Armenian Church of America's honoring of Anahid Ajemian; remembrances of Maro Ajemian; and the scholarship established in her name at the Juilliard School. See also Alan Hovhaness, Lou Harrison, John Cage, and William Masselos in subseries I.A. Series III, Photographs, contains many images of the Ajemians and the Composers String Quartet. - 1908-2012 Photographs in the form of prints, negatives, slides, and transparencies extensively illustrate the lives and careers of George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian. They contain high-quality portraits and informal pictures of Avakian dating from the late 1940s to 2010; photographs of Avakian with recording artists, musicians, and industry figures; promotional photographs of Anahid and Maro Ajemian dating from the mid-1940s to the 1970s; and many images of notable musicians and composers, some never published. They also contain informal photographs of the Avakians, their children, other family members, and friends. A few of the photographs are reproductions, not prints. Many prints have the photographers' names noted on them, and some contain copyright notices. Some of the most historically important photographs, such as those of Louis Armstrong and Miles Davis, were taken by Avakian's brother, the photographer and filmmaker Aram Avakian, and are marked copyright Estate of Aram Avakian. Also among the photographers are Herman Leonard, Chuck Stewart, Otto Hess, and William Claxton. There are no photographs marked as being copyrighted by Columbia Records. Photographs of George Avakian are in three divisions: solo or informal portraits; subjects; and Avakian with others. The solo portraits include images of him at Yale University, publicity shots during his time at Columbia Records (some by Carl Van Vechten), and portraits made for personal use from the 1980s to 2010. Avakian can also be seen in photographs throughout this series. A general Musicians file holds group and individual photographs. See the container list for details. Photographs of the Ajemian sisters are publicity and informal prints. They include images of Anahid Ajemian with, among others, Duke Ellington and Dimitri Mitropoulos; Ulysses Kay; Ben Weber; the Modern Jazz Quartet; Gunther Schuller and Lotte Lenya; and Şahan Arzruni. The Composers String Quartet file also holds photographs of Anahid Ajemian. Photographs of Maro Ajemian include solo publicity shots, as well as images with John Cage, William Masselos, and Alan Hovhaness. Photographs of the Ajemians together feature them with artists such as Henry Cowell, Julius Katchen, Lotte Lenya, Gunther Schuller, and Alan Hovhaness. The Ajemian photographs also include images of family and friends during tours of the United States and Europe. Photographs taken during the Ajemians' debut tour of Europe include a print of the author Clement Richer, taken by Carl Van Vechten. - 1920-2016 This series documents the work of George Avakian, Anahid Ajemian, and a plethora of recording artists for Columbia, World Pacific, Warner Brothers, RCA, and other record labels, as well as artists not directly associated with Avakian. The series also evidences work by film editor and director Aram Avakian. It has three subseries: IV.A. Recording Sessions and Performances; IV.B. Interviews, Lectures, Home Recordings, and Other Spoken Word Recordings; and IV.C. Video Recordings. Major artists with significant material in the series include Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong, Charles Lloyd, Sonny Rollins, Anahid Ajemian, Maro Ajemian, the Composers String Quartet, Duke Ellington, Paul Desmond, Dave Brubeck, William Masselos, Keith Jarrett, Cannonball Adderley, Chet Baker, Art Blakey, John Cage, Ornette Coleman, Miles Davis, Bud Freeman, Dizzy Gillespie, Earl Hines, Alan Hovhaness, Freddie Hubbard, Mahalia Jackson, Johnny Mathis, Bob Newhart, and Ravi Shankar. The audio and video recordings, numbering over 1700, comprise studio recording sessions; live performances; interviews and oral histories with Avakian and others; radio and television broadcasts and documentaries; documentary films or video; lectures and panel discussions; home recordings by Louis Armstrong and George Avakian; and promotional films. See the subseries scope notes for more description. Many of the original media containers had papers enclosed which offer more details on the recording or its context. These have been placed in the Insert File (located at the top of subseries IV.A). The existence of this supplemental material is noted with each item. The Insert File is arranged by the six-digit Library identification number at the left of each item in the container list. Some items have significant content unrelated to the main subject of the recording which is described within the container list. Throughout the series, content which is described as "unidentified" means only that it was not known to the processing archivist, not that the contents are unidentifiable. Many of the items derived from tape media had two or more tracks on them. The contents for these items are described as "Track 1:", "Track 2:", etc.


--- [Tempo] ---
George Mesrop Avakian (1919-2017) was an American music producer, artist manager, writer, and educator best known for his work with artists such as Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Duke Ellington, John Cage, Alan Hovhaness, Keith Jarrett, Sonny Rollins, his wife Anahid Ajemian, and many other musicians and composers. Avakian was born in Armavir, Armenia, the oldest of three children of Mesrop and Manoushak Avakian. His brother was the film director, editor, and photographer Aram Avakian (1926-1987). The Bolshevik revolution forced his family to immigrate to the United States in 1923, and they settled in New York City, where Mesrop Avakian established the U.S. branch of Avakian Brothers, a Persian rug business. Avakian attended the Horace Mann School for Boys in Riverdale, the Bronx, and entered Yale University in 1937 to pursue an English degree. He had become a jazz fan as a teenager, and, in New Haven, he joined a local group of jazz enthusiasts centered around Marshall Stearns, a jazz writer and collector who later founded the Institute of Jazz Studies. Stearns also arranged for Avakian to take over his regular column in Aware that much of the recorded jazz of the 1920s and early 1930s was no longer available for purchase and study, Avakian envisioned a new way of recording and releasing the music on record using the same "album" format used for classical recordings in the 78-rpm era: multi-disc sets with extensive, well-researched annotations to supply the listener with information about the musicians and the music's historical context. After writing letters to several record companies outlining the idea, he was invited by Decca Records in 1939 to produce Inspired by the Decca release, the producer John Hammond suggested in 1940 to Columbia Records that it hire Avakian (who was still attending Yale) to do the same for them. He was assigned to search the company's warehouse in Bridgeport, Connecticut, for deleted and never-released masters and create reissue packages for them, resulting in Columbia Hot Jazz Classics, the first jazz reissue series. The first issue, In 1941, Avakian was drafted into the U.S. Army. After receiving basic training at Fort Benning, Georgia, Avakian served in New Guinea before being recalled stateside to receive specialized European language training at Harvard University. By the time he completed the training, the focus of the war effort had shifted to the Pacific, and Avakian was assigned to the Philippines in 1944. He saw combat there and also served in the occupation forces in Japan before being recalled to San Francisco prior to his discharge in 1946. In Japan, he visited the city of Hiroshima several days after the first atomic bomb was dropped, and wrote an essay, never published, about the experience. Avakian continued his jazz writing and producing career during his military service. While stationed in Boston, he produced a jazz radio broadcast for the Office of War Information, and in the Pacific he wrote articles on jazz published by Following his discharge, Avakian returned to Columbia, where he resumed production of the Hot Jazz Classics series, as well as the Special Editions and Archives series, and began producing new recordings as well. Within a few years, his mandate and opportunities became almost unlimited. In 1948, he was appointed head of the International department, overseeing the production of new foreign recordings, as well as the domestic issue of recordings by foreign subsidiaries. It was through this position that he met and produced the French vocalist Edith Piaf. Also in 1948, Avakian played a key role in Columbia's development and adoption of the the new technology of the 33 1/3-rpm long-playing record. He issued the first 100 popular albums in the format, making Columbia the leader in firmly establishing the microgroove record as a primary vehicle for music retailing for the next four decades. In 1952, he was appointed the first director of the newly-formed Popular LP department, in addition to his International department duties. This department produced jazz artists as well as popular singers and Broadway cast recordings. Among the many artists Avakian signed and produced at Columbia during the 1950s were Dave Brubeck, Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Miles Davis, Ravi Shankar, Johnny Mathis, J.J. Johnson, Rita Reys, Erroll Garner, and Buck Clayton. Avakian was innovative in other ways as well: he made Columbia the first major company to record live jazz and popular music, releasing Benny Goodman's 1938 concert at Carnegie Hall, and recording Lionel Hampton, Harry James, and Louis Armstrong live. From 1956 until 1963, Avakian produced several cornerstone albums recorded live at the Newport Jazz Festival, including Avakian was one of the co-founders of the National Association of Recording Arts and Sciences (NARAS, now known as the Recording Academy) in 1957. He later served as president of the association from 1966 to 1967. In March 1958, Avakian left Columbia to became vice president in charge of New York operations for the independent World Pacific Records. He remained only a few months before departing to co-found Warner Brothers Records. While there, Avakian discovered the comedian Bob Newhart, signing him and producing his Grammy-winning album, Avakian moved to RCA Records in 1960, where he produced Sonny Rollins, Benny Goodman, Paul Desmond, Gary Burton, and Lambert, Hendricks, and Bavan, among others. He initiated and accompanied Goodman on his tour of the Soviet Union in 1962, the first tour of the country by an American jazz band, and produced the first jazz album ever recorded there, Avakian left full-time employment at RCA in late 1962 and went to work for Avakian Brothers, but maintained music production work in his spare time, and he expanded into artist management as well. His clients included Orchestra U.S.A. (co-led by John Lewis and Gunther Schuller), the singer/songwriter Bob Morrison, and the saxophonist Charles Lloyd, for whom he arranged a deal with Atlantic Records, and booked and managed domestic and foreign tours from 1965 to 1969. Avakian also arranged for the Lloyd quartet to make the first performance by a small American jazz group in the Soviet Union, in 1967, and recorded the group there as well. It was through Lloyd that Avakian met the group's pianist, Keith Jarrett. He managed Jarrett from 1967 to 1972, launching his performance and recording career on the Columbia, Atlantic, Impulse, and ECM labels. In addition to his production of many Broadway cast recordings, Avakian involved himself in two notable theater projects. In 1947, he arranged for a group of musicians under the leadership of the saxophonist Eddie Barefield to perform incidental music for the play Avakian worked hard to foster intercultural exchange between the United States and the Soviet Union. In addition to the landmark Benny Goodman and Charles Lloyd tours, he was the first to record Soviet and American artists together (Pavel Lisitsian of the Bolshoi Opera and pianist Maro Ajemian, for New York Records in 1960). In 1960, he attempted to arrange a performance in Moscow by Maro Ajemian of Aram Khachaturian's music, conducted by the composer. In 1971 and 1972, he assisted the Duke Ellington and the Thad Jones/Mel Lewis orchestras in planning their Soviet visits, and he befriended many Russian musicians, composers, and writers, such as Leonid Pereverzev, Oleg Lundstrem, and Valery Ponomarev. Avakian also sponsored the first performance by Soviet jazz musicians in the United States (at the Village Gate, in 1988), and arranged in 1990 for the Branford Marsalis Quartet to play at the Moscow International Jazz Festival, the debut of American performers at that event. For his life-long efforts, the Soviet Composers Union successfully pushed for him to receive the Order of Lenin, the former Soviet Union's highest honor, in 1990. Avakian's other honors included the Knight of Malta (1984); the In his retirement, Avakian continued to involve himself in independent recording productions for various artists, and, in the 1980s, managed two vocalists: Helen Merrill and Datevik Hovenasian. In the 1990s and 2000s, Sony Legacy consulted him for the reissues of several Miles Davis and Louis Armstrong albums. He also remained active in jazz research and writing, and discovered several previously-unknown Louis Armstrong compositions at the Library of Congress. In 1997, he produced performances and a recording of them by trumpeter Randy Sandke and other musicians. Avakian met his wife, the violinist Anahid Marguerite Ajemian (1924-2016), in 1946, and the couple married in 1948. Ajemian's parents, like the Avakians, were Armenian expatriates who had moved to New York City in 1922. Ajemian's sister, Maro (1921-1978), was a pianist. Both sisters studied at the Institute of Musical Art (later the Juilliard School), launched their careers with recitals at Town Hall (in 1940 and 1946), and were interested in contemporary composers. Maro Ajemian performed the U.S. premiere of Aram Khachaturian's George Avakian personally financed and produced the first three albums by Hovhaness and Cage (unrelated to his jobs at Columbia) and, in 1958, presented In the mid-1960s, at the request of Gunther Schuller, Ajemian and violinist Matthew Raimondi formed the Composers String Quartet (CSQ), with the goal of featuring new music by American composers. The group rapidly became renowned and, sponsored by the U.S. State Department, toured the world in the late 1960s and 1970s, including countries such as China, India, and Sierra Leone, where no string quartet had ever performed before. It was the first group to record and regularly perform the string quartets of Elliott Carter, one of which was commissioned for the quartet. In 1975, the CSQ began a two-decade-long residency at Columbia University. It disbanded in 1999, and Anahid Ajemian continued to perform and teach at Columbia and the Juilliard School into the early 2000s. Anahid Ajemian died in 2016, shortly before The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts opened an exhibition about her and her husband, and George Avakian died the following year at the age of 98. The George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian papers (1908-2016) document the careers and lives of the producer and violinist through audio and video recordings; personal and professional correspondence; published and unpublished writings and speeches; contracts and other business papers; scores; clippings; scrapbooks; photographs; awards; posters; and visual art. The bulk of the collection consists of audio and video recordings; correspondence; writings; and photographs illustrating George Avakian's career as a recording producer and artist manager. The collection is arranged in four series: George Avakian Papers; Anahid and Maro Ajemian Papers; Photographs; and Audio and Video Recordings. Series I: George Avakian papers dates from 1913 to 2016. It details his work producing, managing, or assisting a wide variety of musicians and recording artists; how he helped develop those artists' careers and art; the history of Avakian's careers at Columbia, World Pacific, Warner Brothers, and RCA Records; and his later projects as an independent manager and producer. Broadly, the papers show the development of the recording industry over the course of his career. They reveal the intertwined histories through personal and professional correspondence with recording artists or their management; correspondence with other record industry figures; published and unpublished articles, liner notes, essays, and historical accounts by Avakian; clippings; record company memos; business, recording, and production notes; touring information; contracts; publicity material; a scrapbook; awards; posters; visual art; and photographs. Many of Avakian's writings were created with the intention of compiling a memoir of his career which he never completed. Series II: Anahid and Maro Ajemian papers, dating from 1919 to 2016, documents the lives and careers of George Avakian's wife, the violinist Anahid Ajemian, and her sister, the pianist Maro Ajemian. They contain biographical papers on both musicians; files on individual performances by the Ajemians as a duo and as solo artists; annotated scores; scrapbooks; clippings; contracts; publicity material; letters from the composers Lou Harrison, Edgard Varèse, John Cage, and Alan Hovhaness; and obituaries and memorial tributes for Maro Ajemian. The scores include pieces for violin and violin/piano duo, as well as compositions performed by the Composers String Quartet. Composers represented include Alan Hovhaness, Milton Babbitt, Elliott Carter, Henry Cowell, John Cage, Mel Powell, Lou Harrison, Ben Weber, Gunther Schuller, and others. Series III: Photographs dates from 1908 to 2012. It includes images of Avakian or Ajemian with various musicians and colleagues, as well as candid, publicity, or performance photographs of those musicians, some never published. These include such figures as Louis Armstrong, Maro Ajemian, Dave Brubeck, the Composers String Quartet, Henry Cowell, Miles Davis, Eric Dolphy, Duke Ellington, Gil Evans, Benny Goodman, Alan Hovhaness, Keith Jarrett, Charles Lloyd, Johnny Mathis, Sonny Rollins, and Ravi Shankar. Also present are portraits of Avakian, some by Carl Van Vechten and William Gottlieb, and photographs of the Avakian and Ajemian families. Series IV: Audio and Video recordings, numbering over 2200 items, represents the work of George Avakian, Anahid Ajemian, and a large set of recording artists, including Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong, Charles Lloyd, Sonny Rollins, Maro Ajemian, the Composers String Quartet, Duke Ellington, Paul Desmond, Dave Brubeck, William Masselos, Keith Jarrett, and many others. The recordings, many previously unheard, include unique recording sessions and live performances; interviews and oral histories; radio and television broadcasts; lectures and panel discussions; home recordings by Louis Armstrong and George Avakian; sound and video documentaries; and more. The collection also contains sound and video associated with the film editor and director Aram Avakian. An audio recording in the collection contains racial language some may find offensive. George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian papers, JPB 14-28. Music Division, The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts Purchased from George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian in The 78 RPM shellac discs from George Avakian's personal copy of the Decca Processed by The following scholars assisted with the identification or description of some audio recordings in this collection: Ricky Riccardi, Loren Schoenberg, George Schuller, Peter Losin, Jan Lohmann, Michael Fitzgerald, Aidan Levy, David Ostwald, and Lewis Porter. Descriptions of some of the Louis Armstrong home recordings were supplied courtesy of the Louis Armstrong House Museum. Audio and moving image materials can be used onsite at the Library for the Performing Arts. To request materials, please contact the Music Division. Selected items digitized as part of the Music For Moderns: The Partnership of George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian exhibition. Series I documents George Avakian's personal history and his working and personal relationships with key 20th century musicians and artists, both American and foreign, from his time with major recording labels (1938 to the mid-1960s), to his independent work from the mid-1960s onward, to his later work on reissues of his classic productions. The series also gives evidence to his relationships with other key figures in the music and recording industries, such as producers, scholars, and writers, from the United States and other nations. The series holds personal and business correspondence; business and management records; Avakian's notes and writings throughout his career; Avakian's military files; and a scrapbook. Artists with the most representation in this series are Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Keith Jarrett, and Charles Lloyd. Other artists with substantial documentation include Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, John Cage, Sonny Rollins, Dave Brubeck, Wild Bill Davison, Paul Desmond, John Eaton, the Everly Brothers, Erroll Garner, Alan Hovhaness, Dick Hyman, Johnny Mathis, Helen Merrill, Turk Murphy, Bob Newhart, Orchestra U.S.A., and Ravi Shankar. Other major topics covered in the papers include the development of Columbia Records during Avakian's time with the company; Avakian's World War II army service and his writings during it; the film As a general rule, artists and projects recorded for Columbia Records have little contemporaneous documentation in the collection (apart from photographs) because Avakian did not take his office files with him when he departed the company. Instead, Columbia projects are evidenced by correspondence regarding reissue projects, writings, clippings, and interview transcripts. Contemporaneous documents are more common for World Pacific, Warner Brothers, and RCA productions. Major portions of this series document work done on reissues of albums, not the original productions. In addition to the subseries descriptions below, further description of file contents can be found in the container list. George Avakian's personal papers were compiled by his personal assistants with his approval. The papers hold personal and business correspondence; datebooks; a scrapbook; documentation of Avakian's military service; clippings of articles about Avakian, as well as interview transcripts; publicity autobiographies; a book file containing outlines, ideas, and essays intended for Avakian's unfinished memoir of his career; published and unpublished writings and speeches; unpublished fiction; and awards and honors Avakian received. Writings are in the forms of typescripts or computer prints, though a few are handwritten. The designation of "published" and "unpublished" for Avakian's writings can be loose: some articles designated as published may only have appeared once in a newspaper or magazine and never republished since, while portions of writings designated unpublished may have appeared or been heard publicly in edited or altered form, for example on recording liner notes, or in lectures and other public presentations. Researchers are advised to examine Avakian's writings carefully regardless of their published or unpublished status, and to remain aware that short essays, liner notes, anecdotes, explanatory notes, commentary, and the like appear throughout subseries I.B, often under other topical names. The scrapbook documents Avakian's early career as a jazz journalist and producer from 1938 to 1940. It holds clippings of his columns in Avakian's time in the military is represented by his army files, which hold correspondence, service records, and writings. Among the unpublished essays is Avakian's account of visiting the city of Hiroshima ten days after the atomic bomb was dropped on it, and a description of the campaign in the Philippines. The Hiroshima essay, and a rejection letter from Correspondence in the army files is substantial and covers many topics discussed elsewhere in the collection, such as particular jazz musicians, discographical issues, and jazz history. Correspondents include James Thurber; the jazz discographers Charles Delaunay and Ralph Venables; the journalist Leonard Feather; the composer and jazz historian Bill Russell; and several serials which published Avakian's writing during the war, including This subseries also contains a separate correspondence file, dating from 1939 to 2012. It holds a mixture of personal and professional correspondence on a wide variety of topics, and includes letters from Avakian to musicians and colleagues regarding personal recording projects; World Pacific, Warner Brothers, and RCA matters; letters written from and regarding the Soviet Union; and personal letters from Edward R. Murrow, Leonard Bernstein, Felix Rosenthal, Ted Curson, Lakshmi Shankar, Andre Kostelanetz, Arthur Godfrey, Maria Schneider, and W.C. Handy, among many others. The file also includes family letters. See also photographs in box 111, folder 9. Includes correspondence, service records, published articles on jazz, unpublished fiction and essays about Avakian's army experience, and propaganda leaflets. See also National Endowment for the Arts in subseries I.B. International Jazz Awards Humanitarian award. Contains photographs of the awards ceremony. For Honor for Producer of Album of the Year, Includes nomination letters from Gunther Schuller and Milton Babbitt. Honorary Citizenship and City Council Proclamation. Includes letters from Avakian to Tikhon Khrennikov. Produced for record company publicity departments, some edited. To accompany slideshow. Unknown author. To accompany slideshow. Includes greetings from Michel Legrand, Charles Aznavour, Bob Newhart, Dave Brubeck, Sonny Rollins, Toots Thielemans, and Herman Leonard. For Avakian's never-completed memoir. Excerpt of an essay Includes a letter to Anahid Ajemian regarding jazz behind the Iron Curtain. Regarding Goodman's Soviet tour. An essay on the genesis of series. See also Long-Playing Record and Recorded Sound History; and recorded interviews with William S. Bachman and Vincent Liebler in subseries IV.B. Regarding Charles Lloyd's Soviet tour. Record of expenses paid to notable musicians. Box 119, folder 11 contains a clipping describing Avakian's combat experience in Mindanao, the Philippines. Arranged by name of publication. From Avakian to others. Subjects include the decline of swing, Aram Avakian and his role in the making of Letter to Wallace regarding the Armenian genocide. Letters regarding Orchestra U.S.A., the President's Music Committee, and gifts of recordings. Includes a letter from Pierre Salinger. See also Freedom of Information Act Request in box 32, folder 4. The file explains the Maro Ajemian - Aram Khachaturian connection. Letters from RCA and others regarding the trip. Recordings of some of these interviews can be found under interviews in subseries IV.B. Arranged by name of interviewer or publisher. The recording of this interview is in subseries IV.B. Interview by Ann Sneed. Unidentified interviewer. For With Avakian's edits. For WNYC radio. Contains Avakian's notes. Regarding Miles Davis. Regarding Duke Ellington. The recording of the 1978 interview is in subseries IV.B. The transcripts contain Avakian's notes. The 1978 interview was regarding only Duke Ellington. Possibly Peter Keepnews. A lengthy interview regarding Frank Sinatra. Labeled "tape 2 of 4." A BBC Radio series of interviews conducted by Ian Carr. Topics are Louis Armstrong, Benny Goodman, Duke Ellington, Erroll Garner, Dave Brubeck, Miles Davis, Sonny Rollins, Charles Lloyd, and Keith Jarrett. Also holds letters from Avakian inquiring about United States rebroadcast. WHPC 90.3 FM interviews with Michael Anthony. Regarding Avakian's work at Columbia and his experience with Sony Legacy. Possibly belonging to one of Avakian's or Ajemian's parents. All entries are in Armenian. Possibly produced while Avakian was stationed in the Philippines. Scores and horn parts for "Black and Tan Fantasy" and "Peg O' My Heart," and a score for "Sing Sing Sing." Contains letters regarding the Avakians' property and surrounding area, and a description of their house. Letters which were folded inside of envelopes in the scrapbook were removed and placed in folders. Notes inside the scrapbook denote who the letters were from and which folder they are contained in (see below). Contains the Avakians' marriage certificate, a photograph of Alan Hovhaness with the Avakians at their wedding, clippings, a gift list, and congratulatory telegrams. Drafts and legal correspondence for both George Avakian's and Anahid Ajemian's wills. Created by Avakian. See also Book Outline, Manuscripts, and Letters above. By or about Avakian. The program note for the Lewisohn Stadium Concert at which Louis Armstrong performed with the New York Philharmonic. Draft and published copy. Contains letter to a friend with an anecdote regarding the first interview with Goodman and subsequent recording sessions. Liner notes. Drawings and captions by Gene Deitch, commentary by George Avakian. Holds Avakian's first article on Louis Armstrong. An article on the NYU jazz classes Avakian conducted at the Café Society. Various articles. Typescript. Notes and drafts. Copyright registration for liner notes. Typescripts or printouts. Avakian's memoir of producing Armenian music in a letter to Alain Findling. An essay on Avakian's daughter's interest in working with horses. Regarding Miles Davis. A story about Avakian's dinner with Ellington at Yale. Article and letter to Howard Scott. Regarding Armenians in America. An untitled story about Hovenassian. An account of Avakian's meeting with Dimitri Mitropoulos, written for Oliver Daniel. Contains a letter from Mitropoulos. Article about Babe Ruth. A faux-newspaper. These files contain full texts, notes, or programs. They include lectures and syllabi for the jazz history courses Avakian taught at New York University with Sterling Brown (box 16, folders 1-4); lectures on Duke Ellington (1995-2004); a speech Avakian delivered at the Polar Music Prize award ceremony for Keith Jarrett (2003); an incomplete draft of a speech entitled "How I Became A Record Producer" which includes a detailed account of the Avakian family's immigration to the United States and the start of the Avakian Brothers rug business (box 16, folder 19); and speeches on Louis Armstrong (2000, 2008). Draft, with notes. Mostly hand-written notes on many projects. Incomplete. This subseries documents George Avakian's recording productions, his working and personal relationships with musicians, his history with several record labels, his innovations in presenting recorded music, and important events in which he played a key role. These events include the Newport Jazz Festivals of the late 1950s and early 1960s; significant tours by Benny Goodman and Charles Lloyd; and his record and concert productions meant to further artistic exchange between the United States and the Soviet Union. Files in this subseries consist of correspondence, internal company memos, writings, notes, awards, contracts, business records, concert programs, promotional material, clippings, photographs, posters, and scores. Recording artists and composers documented include Louis Armstrong, Cannonball Adderley, Dave Brubeck, John Cage, Eddie Condon, Miles Davis, Wild Bill Davison, Paul Desmond, Eric Dolphy, Armen Donelian, John Eaton, Duke Ellington, Gil Evans, the Everly Brothers, Erroll Garner, Benny Goodman, Billie Holiday, Datevik Hovenasian, Alan Hovhaness, Dick Hyman, Mahalia Jackson, Keith Jarrett, Aram Khachaturian, Lotte Lenya, Charles Lloyd, Oleg Lundstrem, William Masselos, Johnny Mathis, Helen Merrill, Turk Murphy, Bob Newhart, Orchestra U.S.A., Sonny Rollins, and Ravi Shankar. Among the more documented artists are Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Keith Jarrett, and Charles Lloyd. The Louis Armstrong files, mostly dating from the 1990s and early 2000s, contain correspondence, notes, and annotations regarding the Sony Legacy reissues of the Armstrong albums Avakian produced in the 1950s: Files on Miles Davis primarily document the 1997 Sony Legacy boxed set reissue of the albums Davis recorded with Gil Evans for Columbia Records, particularly The Keith Jarrett files include letters from Jarrett regarding recording, contract, touring, and publishing issues; correspondence with ABC/Impulse, Atlantic, CBS, and ECM Records; recording notes or marketing plans for various albums; touring files; and lead sheets of Jarrett's music submitted to Fontelle Music for copyright purposes (Avakian founded the publishing company to provide a home for Jarrett's and Charles Lloyd's music). Files on Charles Lloyd document Avakian's management of the saxophonist during his period of greatest commercial success in the mid- to late-1960s. Avakian acted as agent and tour manager for Lloyd's quartet and as advisor in Lloyd's dealings with record companies. He also established Fontelle Music. The Lloyd files are in two divisions: management and touring. Management files, arranged chronologically, date from 1962 to 1981. They are composed of correspondence, clippings, and promotional literature. Correspondents include Lloyd, Atlantic Records, Columbia Records, the William Morris Agency, publishers, and Broadcast Music, Inc. The Lloyd touring files are mostly arranged chronologically, with folders for each engagement as well as folders of correspondence and documentation regarding overall tour finances. They hold correspondence with local presenters, hotels, and airlines; Avakian's notes; itineraries; concert programs; clippings; promotional literature; posters; and financial statements. Files for the 1966 tours are partially arranged alphabetically by country. Other subjects in this subseries include Avakian's 20-year career history with Columbia Records, as well as the history of the company; his careers at World Pacific, Warner Brothers, and RCA Records; the trumpeter Bix Beiderbecke; the composer Bill Russell; the Voice of America jazz DJ Willis Conover; the Music For Moderns concert series; the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences; the 1965 Off-Broadway production of See notes in the container list for further details on all contents of this subseries. ABC News. See also the recording session in Series IV, under 3 x 3. A group of Soviet jazz musicians who defected to the United States, managed by Avakian. Includes typescript of a commencement address delivered by Avakian at Quinnipiac University, which discusses the group. See also O'Neal, Hank. Correspondence between Avakian, Larry Lader, and Dave Brubeck. See also the audio recordings of In My Solitude, in Series IV under Adderley. World Pacific contract for New Bottle, Old Wine (with the Gil Evans Orchestra). Emails to the Duke-LYM mailing list regarding Albam. RCA and Columbia internal memos and Avakian's notes. Daughter of Milton Ager. Correspondence regarding discovery of Milton Ager recordings. Includes a signed letter from Allen. See also Hovanesian and SABU Productions. Partnership between Avakain and Bernard Gaminian to release music by Armen Donelian and Datevik Hovanesian. See also awards in Subseries I.A. See also Smith, Bill. Columbia correspondence and contract, handbills, and recording notes. Letters to Avakian. Avakian's company, publisher of Keith Jarret's music, as well as Joe Daley and Vladimir Grinberg. Holds lead sheets, contracts, royalty statements, correspondence with BMI, and catalog list. Letter from Shana Alexander regarding Anderson. Correspondence with David Palmquist regarding Anderson. Contract for property held by Avakians and others. Includes documentation of an earthquake benefit produced by Avakian in 1989. See also audio and video recordings in series IV. Includes correspondence with Mickey Kapp and Gӧsta Hagglӧf. Drafts of Avakian's annotations for CD. Copies of photograhs taken for publicity purposes, with Avakian commentary. Funeral program. One by Joe Glaser about Armstrong, second by Richard Meryman written in Armstrong's voice. Transcript. Draft of New Grove biography by Michael Cogswell, with Avakian's notes, and Aram Avakian's biographical notes on Armstrong. Portions of Aram Avakian's notes are fragile and encased in mylar. Memoir by author describes meetings with Armstrong. Avakian's notes on the reissue, and correspondence with Seth Rothstein of Sony regarding it. Press release and fax from Sony regarding reissue, with Avakian's notes. Correspondence and lists pertaining to Avakian's tracing and discovery of previously unknown Armstrong copyrighted compositions at the Library of Congress. Copies of Armstrong's Columbia and MCA contracts, and Avakian letters to Henri Renaud regarding them. Typed and sent to Avakian by a friend. Contains Avakian's personal annotated copy, correspondence with Willems, and Avakian's further notes on the contents. Text of presentation delivered by Avakian at Ellington conference on Armstrong/Ellington album never made. Notes on private French 1948 recordings. Holds copies of correspondence with Glaser from Columbia Records files, internal Columbia memos regarding Armstrong, and a letter from Avakian regarding the possibility of a Russian tour. Liner notes to first reissue of Armstrong material on Columbia (on the Hot Jazz Classics series). Avakian's postings to online mailing list regarding Armstrong's language usage. For three songs performed by Armstrong, with Avakian's notes. Recording information. Letter from Smithsonian Folkways and copy of liner notes. Pamphlet written and signed by Armstrong. Notes and correspondence with Jack Bradley and Andy McKaie regarding content. Correspondence and notes mostly document Avakian's resignation from the Foundation's Board. Avakian serves on the advisory board. Correspondence with Queens College officials and director Michael Cogswell, Avakian's research notes, and deed of gift for donation of recordings. Editing and production notes, correspondence with Sony and researchers, and liner note drafts for reissue of album. A 1985 letter to Michael Brooks explains earlier CD reissue procedures. Flyers and programs. Emails with Ricky Riccardi and others regarding Armstrong lyrics. Includes sheet music and typed lyrics used at the recording session. Email to Vince Giordano discussing songs Armstrong recorded for Okeh. Reactions and counter-reactions to Ostwald's New York Times op-ed of August 3rd regarding Armstrong and civil rights. Includes lengthy unpublished letter from Avakian. See also photographs in Series III. Correspondence with Randy Sandke, David Ostwald, Wynton Marsalis, Malcolm Addey, and others regarding the performance and recording of newly-discovered Armstrong music at the Library of Congress.. Article by Ricky Riccardi. These files pertains to the reissue of original album. They include Avakian's new liner notes, which were used only in an Italian edition of the CD reissue, as well as correspondence with David Ostwald; Peter Shukat (Avakian's lawyer); Sony officials Steve Berkowitz, Jeff Jones, and Seth Rothstein; Italian scholar Stefano Zenni; and engineer Doug Ramsey. Also present are production and editing notes. Sony did not use Avakian's new liner notes and the files contain Avakian's writing about why they didn't, as well as discussion of proposed legal action against Sony. Holds Avakian's account of how Edward R. Murrow came to plan the episode of Contains Avakian's songwriter's contract, his hand-written lyrics, a letter to ASCAP regarding the song, and correspondence with scholars about the song's origins. Text of a proposed children's book about Armstrong, with letters of approval from Dave Brubeck, Wynton Marsalis, and others. List of unique Armstrong tapes in Avakian's possession. Notes and essay drafts regarding Waller and Armstrong. Copy of Armstrong's will, with commentary by David Ostwald. Letters discuss John Cage and Alan Hovhaness. See also Morrison, Bob, and photographs in Series III. Including John Cage, Keith Jarrett, Charlie Haden, Dewey Redman, Ron McClure, Paul Motian, Harry "Sweets" Edison, Valery Ponomarev, Richard Davis and Jack DeJohnette. Papers, business records, and writings regarding Avakian's time with his family's business. Speech by Avakian honoring Avedisian. Correspondence and clippings. Signed by Aznavour. Essay about Aznavour and Avakian meeting in Japan. Correspondence and notes regarding live recordings at the Village Vanguard. These recordings are in series IV.A. Death announcement. Letters from Baseball Hall of Fame. See also audio and video recordings in series IV. Correspondence with researchers. See also photographs in Series III. Sidney Bechet Society letters. Letters from Beiderbecke fans and researchers, and the Bix Beiderbecke Memorial Society. Also holds photographs of Beiderbecke conference. Emails from Belden to Casey Dolan regarding Sony Legacy. Letters to Bennett regarding a tour of the Soviet Union and the Gully Low Jazz Band. Cards from Berigan's daughter, and a short essay by Avakian on Berigan's recorded legacy. Letter to Berio. Correspondence regarding Sony Legacy. See also audio recordings in series IV.A. Correspondence with Blake and Jeanne Lee. Contract regarding recorded music for the play Letter regarding apartment Bradley bought from the Avakians, and memorial program. See also audio recordings in series IV.A. Correspondence with researchers about Braff. Independent producer for Columbia Records. Correspondence discusses Phil Schaap. Postings to Duke-LYM email list. New York University Jazz course guest lecture transcript. See also New York University Jazz History Course in Avakian's lectures and speeches. See also audio recordings in series IV. Includes an essay by Avakian on his history with Brubeck, interoffice Columbia memos regarding Brubeck's contract and reissues, and a file regarding the film Holds a copy of a 1938 letter to Avakian from the American Record Corporation responding to his queries on jazz reissues (see the scrapbook for the original), a transcription of the Brunswick-American Record Corporation contract formalizing the acquisition of Brunswick, and original 1928 studio recording information cards for Vocalion Records (owned by Brunswick). Written arrangement plan. Letters regarding Erroll Garner. Contains advisory memo to Burns regarding his television series Letters from Burton regarding recording and career matters. Copy of letter to Elizabeth Taylor. Letters from friends regarding Bush. See also NOVI. Correspondence regarding NOVI Choir. Also holds photographs of the group. See also Kostelanetz, Richard; and audio recordings in subseries IV.A. The Cage files document mainly Contains pictures of the exhibit, clippings of reviews, and copies of written visitor responses. Son of Hoagy Carmichael. Correspondence discusses Sony Miles Davis reissues and Keith Jarrett. Also holds Avakian's notes on Carr's Jarrett biography. Includes autographed copy of ASCAP 1997 Jazz Wall of Fame program. Correspondence pertains to Composers' String Quartet premier performances and recordings of Carter's compositions. A diplomat at the United States Embassy in Moscow with whom Avakian dealt during the 1962 Benny Goodman tour of the Soviet Union. Letters in this file refer to the tour. Letter to Armenian Embassy regarding Charles. See also Folds, Chuck. Holds letter to Chevan regarding history of jazz liner notes. See also O'Neal, Hank. Letters regarding Sidney Bechet. Tape content descriptions. Art. Avakian's responses to Mike Hennessey's questions about Clarke. Catalog with Avakian's notes. The files include Avakian's account of recording Clayton, a critical survey of Clayton's recordings on Columbia, and a poster advertising a Clayton performance in Brazil. RCA memos concerning Coleman. Includes a copy of Coltrane's contract with Prestige Records, and an email from Avakian discussing Coltrane's wish for Avakian to be his producer. Promotional booklet on Columbia offerings See also Clarke, Kenny, for partial background. Sent to Columbia distributors. Includes Fred Plaut's original photographs. Includes letter of agreement regarding Avakian's employment by the company; 1955 letters to Columbia officials from Avakian discussing Louis Armstrong, Lotte Lenya, Dave Brubeck, Bruno Walter, and other artists; internal company memos; Avakian's resignation letter; and letters discussing World Pacific. Lecture text, writings, notes, and clippings. See also Long-Playing Record and Recorded Sound History files in this subseries. Typed and written notes. Includes an essay by Avakian on the history of series and a promotional poster. Catalog of jazz recordings, with essays by Avakian. Memos from Avakian on the subject. A copy of the original. Blank contract. Letter to Alexandria Avakian, daughter of Aram, regarding Aram's studio photographs. Holds account of original party in 1949. Holds letter from Avakian describing his activities after leaving the record business. Contains Avakian's liner notes, an essay about Condon, and a World Pacific file, which includes Condon's contract with the label and recording notes. See also Warner Brothers Records. Holds cards and notes from Conkling's family, and a memorial service program. See also Wick, Charles. Includes a script for a proposed tribute to Conover, a letter from Conover's biographer, and correspondence regarding Avakian's plan for a television special about Conover. Papers documenting film soundtrack recording session. Holds letters from Cowell regarding concert at Times Hall, from Sidney Robertson Cowell, and from the Other Minds Festival Includes programs, correspondence with producers and the play company, contracts, recording notes, and promotional material. Lead sheets for compositions by Daley and Russell Thorne. See also photographs of Davis and Avakian during the recording of the albums Round About Midnight and Miles Ahead in Series III: Photographs. Includes correspondence with Sony Legacy regarding the liner notes for the Davis/Gil Evans box set, Avakian's account of discussing the recording issues of Email list discussions. Avakian's notes on Chambers' biography of Davis. With Avakian's memos and notes on reissue plans. Copy. With Avakian's notes. Faxed copy of engineer sheets. By Laura Ohata, about Davis. Copies of tape boxes. With notes by Avakian. See also Series III: Photographs. Holds clippings, memorial program, and photographs, and correspondence with Anne Davison, Hal Willard, and Daniel Simms. Program notes, clippings, and Avakian's personal copy of the album. The 78 RPM shellac discs from Avakian's personal copy can be accessed under these call numbers: *LO 10729, *LO 10730, *LO 10731, *LO 10732, *LO 10733, and *LO 10734. See also letters from Delaunay in Avakian's army files and in the scrapbook (both in Series I.A); and Hot Discography (see below). Includes Walter Schaap's translation of a chapter from the Delaunay autobiography. See also Mosaic Records and RCA Records. Contains letters from Desmond, RCA correspondence and production notes on albums recorded for the company, and correspondence with Mosaic Records regarding the label's reissue of Desmond material from RCA. Holds a copy of letter from her to Avakian. Printed list of floppy disc contents. Contains Avakian's notes on the writings of others (mostly Jos Willems) on the subject. Regarding mismanagement by Sony Legacy. Contains correspondence between Avakian and Dolphy's parents, and an essay by Avakian, "Eric Dolphy: A Gentle Giant of a Man." See also Dinkjian, Ara and Hovanesian, Datevik. A horse owned by the Avakians. See also Ketoff, Paul. Correspondence with ECM owner Manfred Eicher regarding the United States distribution of ECM, Keith Jarrett, and the Composers String Quartet. See also Simon, Bill. See also Shukat, Peter; Music For Moderns; Morton, John Faas; and Schaap, Phil. The bulk of the papers regarding Ellington pertain to the 1999 reissue of the album Holds correspondence with Ellington scholars and fans, clippings, and programs. Includes a copy of Ellington's note to let Avakian, Jerry King, and Marshall Stearns backstage at a New Haven performance of the Ellington Orchestra in 1940 (the original is in the scrapbook in subseries I.A), and a letter to Mercedes Ellington upon the death of Mercer Ellington. Includes a long posting to the Duke-LYM email list regarding Ellington alternative takes that Avakian discovered in the Columbia warehouse. Presentation proposal for the 1998 Ellington conference. Draft of posting to the the Duke-LYM email list regarding the album made with Rosemary Clooney. Contains correspondence with Sjef Hoefsmit, Roger Boyes, and others regarding the 1999 reissue of Copies. Includes Avakian's text and list of sound samples for a presentation at the 2004 conference regarding the Ellington-Armstrong recording project that was never made, and issues of the society's newsletter with edited text. Duke Ellington email discussion group. Copy of score page in Ellington's hand. See also California Conference, box 28, folders 13-14. These files pertain to the 1999 reissue produced by Phil Schaap. These files hold Avakian's annotations of Phil Schaap's liner notes, pointing out errors and clarifying facts; postings on the Jazz Research Mailing List and Duke-LYM regarding Schaap and the problems with the reissue; and emails and letters from Steven Lasker and others to Sony and magazine editors defending Avakian. With rebuttals from Avakian and others. Some annotated. Written and typed drafts of Avakian's essay on Phil Schaap's liner notes for the Newport reissue. Copies of photographs with a letter from Avakian regarding microphone placement. With responses from Avakian and others. Includes correspondence with Fitzgerald. With Avakian's notes. Avakian's lawyer. Contains discussion of possible legal action against Sony Legacy. From Newport 1956. Fax of copies of box information. Includes an exchange between Schaap and Avakian, and correspondence with scholars regarding it. Sony Legacy reissue proposal. See also Lundstrem, Oleg. Contains Avakian's research and an essay on the composition. Includes correspondence with John Hasse, Gunther Schuller, and Sam Brylawski. Liner notes. Email from Avakian to Sjef Hoesmit. Postings to the Duke-LYM mailing list by various scholars. See also The Duke Ellington Society of Sweden. Text for presentation at UCLA. Regarding Datevik Hovanesian. Correspondence with friends. The saxophonist. See also Adderley, Cannonball; Merrill, Helen; and Gridley, Mark. Includes a contract between Avakian and Evans, and Avakian's notes on a chapter of the Evans biography by Stephanie Crease. Holds a copy of their Warner Brothers contract and internal company memos. Avakian's liner notes. Correspondence with Avakian. Russian jazz writer. List of clubs and musicians Avakian saw in them. Artist (first name unknown). Drawing titled Portrait of Chet. A company formed by Avakian to publish the music of Charles Lloyd, Keith Jarrett, and other musicians. "The Song My Lady Sings" and "Sweet Georgia Bright." Lead sheets for compositions by Szabo and Cecil McBee, and a letter regarding Szabo's estate. Holds contact lists of journalists or promoters, and letters from a few of them. Regarding Avakian's FBI file. One of Avakian's Yale roommates. Includes a letter to Gabler from Avakian regarding United Hot Clubs of America. See also Alliance Transatlantique. Russian jazz musician. Includes a score, "Traditional Blues," for jazz big band. See also the interview with Tim Clausen in Avakian Interview Transcripts in Subseries I.A. Includes an unpublished article by Avakian sent to various magazines, and his deposition in the Garner/Columbia lawsuit. Of NBC. See also Tblisi Interjazz Festival in Series IV sound recordings. Lead sheets and compositions. Letter to Donald Maggin with story about Getz. Includes correspondence with promoters in Malawi regarding Gillespie's proposed tour of Africa. Letters regarding a recording of Casa Loma material by the Nighthawks. See also photographs of the Soviet tour in Series III and the article on Goodman in Avakian's writings in Subseries I.A. These files concern primarily the Goodman band's 1962 tour of the Soviet Union. Contains clipping of Avakian's interview with Goodman in the Holds Avakian's rebuttals to Phil Schaap's liner notes, and correspondence with Jon Hancock regarding a new version of the recording. Contains internal memos and recording notes. The files include a tour program signed by Goodman and the band; photographs of band members; copies of 1962 State Department documents; letters from Avakian regarding the tour; clippings from Soviet and American newspapers; RCA memos, recording notes, a tape index, and a letter from Avakian regarding his acquisition of the tour recordings in 1994, and Selmer souvenir pins from the tour. Avakian's posting to the Duke-LYM email list about Granz. Estate. Correspondence with the Nagel-Heyer label regarding a recording of Green. Contains correspondence and photographs. Holds Hamilton's statement regarding Aram Avakian's direction of Contains a draft of an essay about Hammond stealing credits for the Hot Jazz Classics series, and a letter from Hammond. See also O' Neal, Hank. Legal correspondence and depositions regarding a lawsuit and settlement between Avakian, Hammond Music Enterprises, and Hank O'Neal. Correspondence with Sotheby's regarding the selling of a painting by Hassam. See also the Smithsonian Institution. Holds correspondence regarding Duke Ellington, Irving Townsend, and the Smithsonian's collection of jazz arrangements. Letters to producers regarding the sale of a Herman album with Ruby Braff, produced by Avakian and Hank O'Neal. Includes a postcard autographed by Herman to Aram Avakian. Contains Avakian's letters to various departments of the United States government about the team with whom Avakian visited the city. Script for a musical by Hoagy B. Carmichael and William L. Wheatley. See also photographs of the Newport Jazz Festival under Duke Ellington in Series III. Contains emailed answers to questions about Holiday and letters regarding a CD box set produced by Michael Brooks. Avakian's notes on the show. Avakian used Charles Delaunay's Avakian's personal, annotated copies of both books, and his list of errata in the first edition. See also Armen Donelian, SABU Productionas, Alliance Transatlantique, and Sony France. Design and photography for Hovenasian's album The files hold letters from Hovhaness from the early 1960s; letters from Avakian to friends and associates of Hovhaness; programs; flyers; clippings for Hovhaness and Ajemian concerts at Town Hall and Carnegie Hall; discographies; and a photograph of Hovhaness with the Ajemians. Letter to Avakian. See also Series III: Photographs Chicago Jazz CD recording notes, contracts, and promotional letters. Holds copy of photograph of Avakian at a protest. Sextet autographs. Includes discussion of a reissue of Duke Ellington's Black, Brown and Beige, and a 1960 letter from Jackson. See also Carr, Ian. A substantial collection of photographs of Jarrett and his American quartet is in Series III: Photographs. Correspondence between Jarrett and Avakian, letters from presenters and Atlantic Records, and publicity biographies. Copies of original charts given to Cologne radio: "Love Ship" and "Love Song To A Baby." Avakian's notes on and responses to Carr's biography. Recording information Avakian's correspondence with the Board regarding Jarrett. Marketing ideas and Columbia contract. The publishing company formed by Avakian for Jarrett and Jack DeJohnette. First Jarrett solo concert in New York, produced by Avakian on October 26, 1972. Recording data. Recording data. Lead sheets, and Arranged chronologically, and grouped by the title of the album on which the compositions were recorded. Contains music by both Jarrett and Jack DeJohnette. Some were not recorded. Lead sheets with music and lyrics by Scott Jarrett are also present. These files, arranged by country, contain clippings, promotional flyers, contracts, and correspondence with Jarrett and local presenters. Postings to online discussion group. Program and notes. See also Raven Films. These files document mainly George Avakian's attempts to correct the record regarding his brother Aram's role in directing the film. Essay by Larry Appelbaum. Avakian's personal copy, annotated. Indian jazz journalist. Contains writings by Jhaveri. Letter from Maude Johnson, and a typescript of Avakian's essay on Johnson. Email from researcher regarding. Letter to Avakian regarding NARAS Trustees Award. Regarding Claude Thornhill Band arrangements. Metronome magazine clipping, with a note to Avakian. Correspondence and recording information regarding a Katz - Helen Merrill studio album, and an excerpt of an interview with Katz. Kavan was a vice president of Columbia Records in the 1960s. A catalog of Kavan's personal collection of recordings, with a letter to Avakian. Photographer. Letters to researchers and clippings regarding Kerouac's interview of Avakian in the George Avakian's correspondence with Kesten, Aram Avakian's film production manager. Inventor of the Syn-Ket. See also letters in Series II. These files document Avakian's attempt to arrange a Maro Avakian performance of Khachaturian's music in Moscow, with the composer conducting. It holds correspondence with Khachaturian (in Russian), and Avakian's letter to Nikita Kruschev regarding the matter. Holds correspondence with King (a friend and Yale classmate of Avakian's), and Avakian's eulogy for him. Avakian's account of turning down an opportunity to record Kitt. Avakian's notes on Kofsky's Black Music, White Business. Producer of The $64,000 Question. Poster celebrating Willis Conover, signed by Kozlovski. Regarding Kostelanetz's editing of a John Cage book. Koyama was the editor of Posters. Letter from leader of Krupa's ghost band. Notes and correspondence regarding recordings at the Newport Jazz Festival and a studio album for RCA. Photographs of Avakian in studio with the group. Correspondence with Lampley and Avakian's writings about him after his death. Also contains photographs of Avakian, Lampley, Archie Bleyer, and Arthur Godfrey. Correspondence with Lawrence and others regarding errors in Lawrence's book on Duke Ellington. The lead sheets are for songs by various writers including Big Bill Broonzy, Joe Williams, Clarence Williams, William Saroyan, Jimmy Yancey, Jay McShann, Lonnie Johnson, Louis Armstrong, and Sonny Boy Williams. All are reproductions of copyist scores. Two, "Tenderly" and "April In Paris," are production scores. Tickets to memorial concert. Correspondence and clippings. Text of speech by Lees delivered at the Duke Ellington convention in Toronto. Correspondence with Lenya regarding recordings. Correspondence with others regarding Lenya and Kurt Weill. Invitation to Leonard's 80th birthday party. An Armenian holocaust denier. Correspondence with Lewis and others regarding Orchestra U.S.A. Correspondence with staff regarding Voice of America recordings of the 1955-1956 Newport Jazz Festival. Correspondence regarding Avakian's lawsuit against Lindberg. An Armenian opera singer for whom Avakian produced the album Contains correspondence, contracts, recording data, clippings, and lead sheets. See also Fontelle Music Company, Columbia Records, and Tallin Jazz Festival in this subseries, and Series III: Photographs. The files for Lloyd's 1967 visit to the Soviet Union and the Tallin Jazz Festival contain photographs of the group in performance and at social events in the country, some with Avakian. Letters and emails regarding visits to the United Kingdom. See also Recording History. These files include correspondence with engineers and Columbia officials regarding the technical development of the LP; a transcript of a speech Avakian delivered at a 1998 event at the Library of Congress celebrating the 50th anniversary of the LP; and a transcript of Avakian interviewing William S. Bachman. Russian musician and composer, and a longtime friend of Avakian. Includes Lundstrem's autographed arrangement of Duke Ellington's "Lazy Bug." See also Ellington, Duke in Series III: Photographs. Contains a 1978 letter explaining a photograph of Avakian, Maher, Duke Ellington, and Billy Strayhorn. Includes Avakian's account of working at Columbia from 1939 to 1941 researching jazz masters. Score for song by unknown composer. Book proposal for history of Columbia Records, with Avakian's comments. See also Boghosian, Paul. Contains poster signed by Marsalis. See also Music for Moderns, and audio recordings in Series IV. Holds letters regarding his recordings with the Ajemians, and a copy of his contract with MGM Records. See also photographs in Series III. Contains a 1957 letter from Mathis's parents to the Avakians, letters from Mathis, discographical information, clippings, and fan club mailings. Includes correspondence with MSI Management Services Inc. and lawyers regarding loans Avakian made to McFerrin's manager, Linda Goldstein. Fan club literature. Because Avakian managed Merrill for several years in the 1980s, the files regarding her are substantial. They consist of booking and press correspondence; correspondence with Merrill; press releases; clippings; contracts; recording information; promotional literature; and photographs. These files hold letters from Avakian regarding master recordings of Maro and Anahid Ajemian, William Masselos, and Alan Hovhaness. They outline the Avakians' personal histories with Masselos and Hovhaness. Correspondence with Sue Mingus. See also Music For Moderns. Copies of correspondence between William Trotter and Donald Ott regarding Trotter's never-published book on Mitropoulos. See also Music for Moderns. See also Savoy Ballroom. Essay by Bernard King on Pannonica de Koenigswarter. Program. Programs. See also Fontelle Music Company and Askew, Luke. Manuscript song lead sheets. Holds correspondence with Avakian regarding the production of the cast recording of Holds correspondence and chapter manuscripts for Morton's book regarding Duke Ellington at the Newport Jazz Festival of 1956, with Avakian's corrections and commentary. Holds correspondence with Michael Cuscuna and others, and liner note drafts regarding three Mosaic projects: See also Pomonarev, Valery, and Marsalis, Branford. A proposal co-sponsored by Avakian. Correspondence with Mulligan, Mulligan's notes on his Pacific contract, recording notes, and Avakian's letter in support of a Guggenheim fellowship. Signed by Murphy. Includes a letter to Casey Murrow regarding the A proposal for a concert series. See also Hamilton, Chico, and Music For Moderns in Series III: Photographs; and recordings in Series IV. A concert series at Town Hall produced by George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian. Author of the book These files hold an extensive text for a slide show about Avakian's early career. Other contents include letters discussing the early history of NARAS, and letters from Avakian dating from his term as president (1966-1967). Correspondence regarding and programs for Avakian's 2010 NEA Jazz Master Award. A poster advertising an Avakian lecture. Letters to the editor, Barry Kernfeld. Correspondence and clippings regarding an Avakian-proposed festival of New Orleans music in Gorky Park. See also the Book file in Series I.A. Contains letters from Newhart; Avakian's notes and an essay on signing and producing him at Warner Brothers; and liner note drafts for the comedian's first two albums. See also Ellington, Duke; Armstrong, Louis; Jazz On A Summer's Day; and Raven Films. The Newport Jazz Festivals from 1954 to 1963 (particularly those of 1956, 1958, and 1960) are documented by programs, clippings, tape logs, notes, and correspondence. Correspondence with festival officials, newspaper editors, and researchers discusses Duke Ellington's 1956 performance and the roles of Jo Jones and Elaine Anderson in boosting it; the filming of Correspondence and notes regarding the proposal and plans for the festival in 1965. Correspondence with Nkwe (President of African Artists Management) regarding appearances in Africa by Sonny Rollins, Keith Jarrett, and Dizzy Gillespie. See also Johnny Mathis. Score for Letters from Nowakowski, a researcher, on Honky Tonk Blues and Art Hodes. Letter to Avakian. Includes a program signed by Eubie Blake. Anahid Ajemian was a limited partner in the 1979 production. See also A O'N Records; Chiaroscuro Records; Hammond Music Enterprises; Herman, Woody; and Rollins, Sonny. Includes information on a recording of Woody Herman and Ruby Braff produced by Avakian. See also Lewis, John; Zwerin, Mike; and Schuller, Gunther. These files include correspondence with John Lewis, Gunther Schuller, and other figures in the organization; Columbia Records contracts and correspondence; clippings, handbills, and other promotional items; contracts and concert sales figures; and budget and fundraising information. Holds letters from Ory. Correspondence with Ostwald and clippings regarding his Gully Low Jazz Band. Contains letters and documents from Paikoff, who was researching the history of the American record industry. Includes excerpts from a transcript of Avakian's 1943 deposition in the lawsuit of RCA-Victor vs. Columbia Records, regarding the color red used on phonograph record labels. A cassette of Paikoff's interview with Avakian on January 22, 1993 was separated for processing by the Recorded Sound division. Letters from Panassié. Contains correspondence with Parker regarding Charlie Parker's estate, and tapes of Charlie Parker in her possession. Music cue sheets for See also O'Neal, Hank. See also Soviet Jazz History. A Russian musicologist, historian, and writer on jazz, and a close friend of Avakian. Contains correspondence, clippings, and photographs. Also holds Pereverzev's proposals for inter-cultural educational programs, some in Russian. Correspondence regarding Bill Russell. See also 3 x 3. Correspondence regarding the Moscow International Jazz Festival. See also Series III: Photographs. See also Donelian, Armen. A production company founded by George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian for special projects. The clients included Aram Avakian. Includes correspondence and financial and business records. A description of Avakian's activities as of November 2008. The file is regarding the Sony Legacy soundtrack to the Arts and Entertainment documentary. Avakian was an advisor for the project. Contains correspondence and discographical information. See also Desmond, Paul; Lambert, Hendricks, and Bavan; and Rollins, Sonny. These files include internal correspondence regarding such artists as Benny Goodman, Charlie Parker, Gary Burton, Pee Wee Russell, Sonny Rollins, and Gil Evans; correspondence with Steve Sholes regarding Paul Desmond and Sonny Rollins (box 57, folder 1); correspondence with George Grau regarding unreleased Sonny Rollins recordings in Avakian's possession (box 56, folder 22); Avakian's description of his independent production role with the company, his signed contract for it, and notes on his mistakes in what he agreed to (box 56, folders 23-24); and Avakian's application for employment, which has exact dates of employment at previous jobs and for his army service (box 56, folder 15). On recording techniques. For the Brunswick and Okeh labels. Includes dates for Johnny Dodds, Clarence Williams, and Frankie Trumbauer. Pastel drawing. Avakian's notes. See also RCA Records; Rose, Wally; photographs in Series III; and audio recordings in Series IV.A. Includes personal letters from Rollins (box 57, folders 15-17); production notes and ideas for the issue of unreleased Rollins material recorded in 1961; notes on the Newport Jazz Festival of 1963; copyright forms; and publishing contracts. The personal letters include a copy of a letter from Rollins to Coleman Hawkins. Descriptions of 1961-1962 Sonny Rollins tapes held by Avakian, and correspondence with Wulf Muller of Universal Music Group regarding them. See also Series III: Photographs, under Russell and under Jackson, Mahalia. Correspondence is between Avakian and Russell, William Wagner, Alice Sousser, and Mike Pointon. Also contains chapters and the final version of Pointon and Ray Smith's book Includes published transcriptions by Russell of Jelly Roll Morton's music, four annotated manuscript copies of Russell's music, untitled manuscripts for piano, and a published version of See also Hovenasian, Datevik. Holds letters from Saroyan to Avakian and Alan Hovhaness, signed sheet music, and lyric and music manuscripts for "Come On-a My House" by Ross Bagdasarian and Saroyan. See also photographs in Series III. Contains correspondence with presenters; programs; photographs; and notes. Avakian's introduction to a theatrical piece on Satie. Includes a letter to Robert F. Kennedy. Correspondence with Savory and his son Eugene. Holds a letter from Terry Monaghan regarding research. See also Ellington, Duke, and Goodman, Benny. Contains correspondence with researchers and journalists regarding Schaap's errors in his production projects and CD liner notes. Holds Avakian's letter to Michael Dorf of the Knitting Factory attempting to book Schuller's group Orange Then Blue. See also Keepnews, Orrin. Includes personal letters from Schuller, correspondence with Schuller and John Lewis regarding Orchestra U.S.A., and with Sony regarding the reissue of Two lead sheets by unidentified composers. Includes a copy of a 1943 letter to Shain from Louis Armstrong. See also photographs in Series III. The Shankar files hold correspondence with Shankar and Genesis Publications, liner notes by Alan Hovhaness, interview notes, clippings, and concert programs. The correspondence with Genesis Publications recounts the story and chronology of Avakian's first meeting and recordings with Shankar. Contains Avakian's memories of Shaw. Typed diary entries by Shaw regarding a vacation in Greenwood Lake, New York, at which Avakian was also present. See also Ellington, Duke/Newport Jazz Festival. Avakian's lawyer. Contains a letter to Simon regarding the Les Elgart band. Contains chord sheets for "The Red Door" and "Zootcase." Contains a letter from Will Friedwald and Avakian's recollections of recording Sinatra in 1946 and 1947. Of the State Department. Avakian's letter discusses the possibility of Maro Ajemian performing in Moscow. Contains a copy of a lyric sheet for a song Avakian studied. See also American Jazz Orchestra, and Eaton, John. Also known as Bill Smith. Includes correspondence discussing projects with John Eaton. Includes letter and notes regarding Solal's appearance at the 1963 Newport Jazz Festival. Release schedules and correspondence. Correspondence concerning Aram Avakian's film See also Vikharieff, Yuri. These files contain correspondence with Russian friends and musicians regarding the Moscow Jazz Festival and the history of jazz in the Soviet Union; letters and clippings regarding the first performance by Soviet jazz musicians in the United States; a letter to Phil Woods proposing a recording project featuring Russian jazz, with manuscripts of compositions by Soviet composers including Yuri Vikharieff; correspondence with the Soviet Composers Union; and a poster advertising the David Golostchokin Jazz Band. Avakian's notes on recordings of the song. Personal letters. See also photographs in box 104, folder 6. Includes a letter to Avakian with a syllabus from a jazz history course at the Institute of Jazz Studies, and a detailed chronology of Stearns's life. See also Jazz On A Summer's Day. Regarding photographs of the 1962 Benny Goodman tour of the Soviet Union. Contains an annotated production script, music notes, producer correspondence, and programs. Correspondence with William Youngren regarding Bix Beiderbecke's recording of the song. Includes correspondence with Tommy Cecil in which Avakian discusses at length the Charles Lloyd Quartet's performances in the Soviet Union in 1967. Correspondence with a Tatum estate lawyer regarding unreleased tapes of Tatum. Includes letters to RCA; cards and a program signed by Terry; photographs;, and information on Terry's archives at William Paterson University. Includes a letter from Teschemacher's sister, Lindsay Leonard Cox. Holds letters from Thielemans. Ink drawing. Townsend was a producer at Columbia concurrently with Avakian and after Avakian's departure. Includes the 1982 Grammy Awards program with Avakian's tribute to Townsend, and the manuscript of an unpublished novel by Townsend, Holds a letter from Avakian regarding Benny Goodman recordings. See also Soviet Compositions. Russian jazz musician and composer. Contains letters to Avakian. Contains a letter to Tom Maxwell regarding Waller's "Fats At The Organ," and lead sheets for 20 re-discovered songs by Waller, all copyrighted 1962. See also Everly Brothers and Conkling, Jim. These files hold inter-office and artist correspondence, publicity material, and Avakian's notes. Subjects include Dave Brubeck and other recording artists; the terms of Avakian's remuneration; and the possible purchase of Riverside Records. Publicity material announces Avakian's hiring in 1958. A 1995 letter from Avakian to an unknown recipient discusses his time at the company, and his 1996 notes pertain to an unidentified book about Warner Brothers. These notes describe why he left Columbia Records for World Pacific. Discographical notes on Watters. See also Davis, Miles. Script for Christmas album. Of the United States Information Agency. Contains correspondence discussing Willis Conover. Letter from Len Selk, co-author of Drafts for Avakian's preface to Willems's discography of Louis Armstrong, Contains a paper presented at the International Association for Jazz Education conference: "Clarence Williams: A Critical Re-Evaluation" by Jon Ozment. Contains correspondence and notes regarding RCA recording sessions, and the production score for "A Woman" from the album Letter from Avakian. Contains Avakian's outline of a multi-LP survey of jazz history. See also Bock, Richard, in Series III: Photographs. These files contain a press release announcing Avakian's hire, correspondence with Richard Bock (the company president) discussing artists including Ravi Shankar and Woody Herman, and contracts. Copyright forms and lead sheets for songs published by Anahid Music. Hong Kong musician. Contains Zwerin's RCA contract, correspondence and notes regarding RCA recordings of The Sextet of Orchestra U.S.A., and personal correspondence. This series documents the careers of the Ajemian sisters, both as a duo and as solo artists. It holds annotated scores of works performed or recorded by the Ajemians or the Composers String Quartet; letters to the sisters and the Avakian family from Alan Hovhaness, Ernst Krenek, Lou Harrison, John Cage, and Edgard Varèse; scrapbooks; performance-related files; and other topical files. The scores hold pieces that in many cases were premiered or recorded by the Ajemians, and often contain performance notes. Consisting of both published editions and manuscript copies, they include works by Elliott Carter, Henry Cowell, Mario Davidovsky, David Del Tredici, George Edwards, Gene Gutchë, Lou Harrison, Alan Hovhaness, Ben Johnston, Toshiro Mayuzumi, Mel Powell, Wallingford Reigger, Ottorino Respighi, Dane Rudhyar, Gunther Schuller, Seymour Shifrin, Carlos Surinach, Ben Weber, Anton Webern, Henry Weinberg, and Charles Whittenberg.. They are arranged alphabetically by composer. The music by Hovhaness includes Letters from Alan Hovhaness, Lou Harrison, and Ernst Krenek are filed under their names. All other letters, including those from John Cage and Edgard Varèse, are filed separately under letters. The letters from Alan Hovhaness to Maro Ajemian are substantial, dating from 1940 to 1950. They also contain 1991 letters from George Avakian describing the pivotal roles played by the Ajemian sisters and Dr. Elizabeth Gregory in the early stages of Hovhaness's career. The performance-related files hold programs, contracts, clippings, photographs and publicity flyers regarding concert appearances by both Ajemians dating from 1944 to 1983. Files for the Composers String Quartet document its history through clippings, programs, press releases, and correspondence. Also present are files on the quartet's recordings of music by Elliott Carter and Henry Cowell, and files regarding international tours by the quartet. Files for tours sponsored by the State Department contain final reports submitted to the government. Other files in this series hold biographies of the Ajemians and the Composers String Quartet; clippings; programs; handbills; publicity material; and a scrapbook of clippings and programs regarding Maro Ajemian's early performances. They also evidence George Avakian's efforts to persuade the U.S. State Department to arrange a 1960 performance by Maro Ajemian in Moscow featuring the music of Aram Khachaturian (filed under Khachaturian); recordings by both Ajemians for CBS and RCA Records (filed under the respective companies); performances and tours of the Composers String Quartet from 1972 to 1983; the Diocese of the Armenian Church of America's honoring of Anahid Ajemian; remembrances of Maro Ajemian; and the scholarship established in her name at the Juilliard School. See also Alan Hovhaness, Lou Harrison, John Cage, and William Masselos in subseries I.A. Series III, Photographs, contains many images of the Ajemians and the Composers String Quartet. Father of Anahid and Maro Ajemian. State of New York medical license. Parents of the Ajemians. Contains their marriage certificate, and clippings and letters regarding their death in a plane crash in 1950. Correspondence regarding and contracts for recordings of pieces by Béla Bartók. See also the scores of notated music used and annotated by the quartet, and photographs in Series III. These files document the history of the quartet through clippings, programs, press releases, a poster, and correspondence with promoters and travel agents. The clippings include documentation of tours of Africa, India, the Soviet Union, and South America, and other nations. Files for tours sponsored by the State Department contain final reports submitted to the government. Also present are files on the quartet's recordings of music by Elliott Carter and Henry Cowell. To Anahid Ajemian, from His Holiness Garegin II, the Catholicos of All Armenians, Echmiadzin. Husband of Maro Ajemian. The file holds obituaries, a eulogy, and Galstaun's will and estate papers. Letters to George Avakian regarding the Ajemian sisters. See also Performances. Letters and promotional material from KQED. Includes letters from Edgard Varèse and John Cage, and letters from Maro Ajemian to her family and to William Masselos. Holds Maro Ajemian's diploma, and yearbooks for both Anahid and Maro Ajemian. Includes program, clippings, and photographs from her memorial concert. For Maro Ajemian. Includes an obituary written by George Avakian. Files hold programs, clippings, handbills, and photographs. Maro Ajemian's Town Hall debut. Anahid Ajemian's Town Hall debut. Includes concert notes written by George Avakian under the pseudonym of Allistair Magruder II. John Cage sonatas performed by Maro Ajemian. With Alan Hovhaness. Includes photographs. Produced by an Armenian society honoring 100 years of Armenians in the United States. See also Performances. Produced by National Concert and Artists Corporation. For both Ajemians. Includes one for Anahid Ajemian with Leopold Stokowski. Arranged by composer. Student compositions. Commissioned by the Composers String Quartet. Violin part only. For violin and piano. Manuscript. For violin, piano, and percussion. For violin and piano. Inscribed by Cowell to the Ajemians. Violin 2 part only. Inscribed to the Composers String Quartet by Elliott Carter. For soprano and string quartet. For string quartet and string orchestra. Violin 2 part only. Also contains a 1995 copy of a note from Harrison regarding the piece, and a 1999 program. For flute, violin, drums, and strings. For violin and piano. Inscribed by William Masselos to George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian. Written for the Ajemians. For mezzo-soprano and string quartet. The score, signed by Riegger, was used for a recording. Includes correspondence between Anahid Ajemian and Maureen Nevins, a researcher on Rudhyar. For flute, double bass and chamber orchestra. Violin part only. For piano and violin. For violin and piano. Script for Virgil Thomson, with performance notes. See also the audio recording of this event in Series IV. Presented by the Eastern Diocese of the St. Sarkis Armenian Orthodox Church. Photographs in the form of prints, negatives, slides, and transparencies extensively illustrate the lives and careers of George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian. They contain high-quality portraits and informal pictures of Avakian dating from the late 1940s to 2010; photographs of Avakian with recording artists, musicians, and industry figures; promotional photographs of Anahid and Maro Ajemian dating from the mid-1940s to the 1970s; and many images of notable musicians and composers, some never published. They also contain informal photographs of the Avakians, their children, other family members, and friends. A few of the photographs are reproductions, not prints. Many prints have the photographers' names noted on them, and some contain copyright notices. Some of the most historically important photographs, such as those of Louis Armstrong and Miles Davis, were taken by Avakian's brother, the photographer and filmmaker Aram Avakian, and are marked copyright Estate of Aram Avakian. Also among the photographers are Herman Leonard, Chuck Stewart, Otto Hess, and William Claxton. There are no photographs marked as being copyrighted by Columbia Records. Photographs of George Avakian are in three divisions: solo or informal portraits; subjects; and Avakian with others. The solo portraits include images of him at Yale University, publicity shots during his time at Columbia Records (some by Carl Van Vechten), and portraits made for personal use from the 1980s to 2010. Avakian can also be seen in photographs throughout this series. A general Musicians file holds group and individual photographs. See the container list for details. Photographs of the Ajemian sisters are publicity and informal prints. They include images of Anahid Ajemian with, among others, Duke Ellington and Dimitri Mitropoulos; Ulysses Kay; Ben Weber; the Modern Jazz Quartet; Gunther Schuller and Lotte Lenya; and Şahan Arzruni. The Composers String Quartet file also holds photographs of Anahid Ajemian. Photographs of Maro Ajemian include solo publicity shots, as well as images with John Cage, William Masselos, and Alan Hovhaness. Photographs of the Ajemians together feature them with artists such as Henry Cowell, Julius Katchen, Lotte Lenya, Gunther Schuller, and Alan Hovhaness. The Ajemian photographs also include images of family and friends during tours of the United States and Europe. Photographs taken during the Ajemians' debut tour of Europe include a print of the author Clement Richer, taken by Carl Van Vechten. See also Ponomarev, Valery. Prints and proofsheets of Avakian in a recording studio with Valery Ponomarev, Vladimir "Valodya" Semarkachev, Alex Kofman, John Bunch, Richard Davis, Oliver Jackson. Prints of Adams playing with Soviet jazz musicians during the Thad Jones/Mel Lewis Orchestra's tour of the country. Contact sheets of a recording session for the album With his wife and Avakian. See also Hamilton, Chico and Music for Moderns. The parents of Anahid and Maro Ajemian. Includes photographs of Ajemian with Alan Hovhaness. Negatives only. See also Ellington, Duke. A dancer in the audience at the Newport Jazz Festival who became famous after photographs of her dancing appeared in magazines. Copies of photographs by Jack Bradley of Armstrong's grave site. Publicity photographs of Armstrong, Avakian, and Piet Beishuizen (director of publicity for Philips records in Germany). With George Avakian, photographed by Aram Avakian. With Avakian and W.C. Handy. With George Avakian and Lotte Lenya, photographed by Aram Avakian. From the set of the film Includes publicity and performance photographs, and a copy of a photograph of Avakian at Armstrong's funeral, with Charles Graham. The photographs of the Avakian family and friends include a group photograph at a party on May 11, 1951, which includes George Avakian, Anahid Ajemian, Maro Ajemian, John Cage, Merce Cunningham, Alan Hovhaness, Frank Wigglesworth, William Saroyan, and William Masselos (box 101, folder 16). Also present is a photograph from the Avakian-Ajemian wedding, and images of the Avakian children. Negatives and prints, formal and informal, including three from the 1962 Benny Goodman tour of the Soviet Union. Some portraits are by Carl Van Vechten and William Gottlieb. Includes photos of Avakian with Dan Morgenstern, Jimmy Heath, and Phoebe Jacobs. With Howard Scott and Stan Kavan. Avakian editing tape with engineer Lowell Frank. With John Hammond, Mel Powell, and Martha Lou Harp. See also Office of War Information in Musicians. At Camp Upton, New York; Fort Benning, Georgia; Cambridge, Massachusetts; and in the Philippines and Japan. Individuals pictured with Avakian include Louis Armstrong, Charles Aznavour, Buck Clayton, Willis Conover, Chick Corea, Miles Davis (with Sterling Brown), Les Elgart, the Everly Brothers, Erroll Garner, Freddie Hubbard, Keith Jarrett, J.J. Johnson, Thad Jones, Orrin Keepnews, Michel Legrand, Lotte Lenya, Mel Lewis, Charles Lloyd, Teo Macero, Jimmy McPartland, Marian McPartland, Jay McShann, Helen Merrill, Joe Muryani, Bob Newhart, Valery Ponomarev,Kate Smith, Billy Strayhorn, Toots Thielemans, Virgil Thomson, the Von Trapp family, W.C. Handy, Helen Ward, Teddy Wilson, Kai Winding, and Pat Yankee. Includes images from the Avakian-Ajemian wedding, an early-1950s picture of the Avakians listening to Benny Goodman at Basin Street, and at the Order of Lenin awards ceremony. The Avakians on vacation in Courménil, France. Includes a photograph of Prince with Johnny Mathis, among other images. Holds the only photographs of Avakian and Stearns together. At KPIX in San Francisco, with Anahid Ajemian. See Lloyd, Charles. Bob Wilber and Avakian are in some photographs. With Avakian and Miriam Makeba at the Grammy Awards. Includes an image of Avakian and Bennett together, and at a club performance with other musicians. President of World Pacific Records, with Avakian. Transparencies. Includes photographs of the first Brubeck Quartet recording session for Columbia with Paul Desmond and Joe Morello. Negatives and a contact sheet of a recording session with Jim Hall, Chuck Israels, Tommy Flanagan, and Chris Swanson. See also Ajemian, Maro. Publicity prints of Cage, and contact sheets and negatives of recording sessions with Maro Ajemian and William Masselos. Also holds a print of Avakian and Cage at rehearsals for The 25-Year Retrospective Concert of the Music of John Cage at Town Hall in 1958. Photographs of the blues guitarist with a horse jockey of the same name. See also Composers String Quartet. Publicity portraits. An informal portrait. With Avakian and Oleg Lundstrem. See also Groups. Includes prints of Condon with Avakian and Max Kaminsky outside Nick's Tavern (1939), and a contact sheet of a recording session. With Avakian, Paul Weston, and Goddard Lieberson. Negatives only. Contains a photograph of the Miles Davis Quintet's first recording session for Columbia (with John Coltrane), and Aram Avakian photographs of a See also Lloyd, Charles. At the Newport Jazz Festival with Avakian and Father Norman O'Connor, and in a recording session. Anahid Ajemian's violin teacher. With artist Nora Jaffe. With Avakian and Peter Schickele. A recording session with William O. Smith (The American Jazz Ensemble Featuring Bill Smith and Johnny Eaton). Negatives and contact sheets. See also Hoeffler, Paul in Subseries I.B. Photographs by Paul Hoeffler. Avakian with the band at Kennedy Airport, and performance photos in the Soviet Union. See also Maher, James, in Subseries I.B for an explanation of the photograph. Prints and a negative. At a Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) benefit. Receiving a Grammy award from Avakian. See also Lloyd, Charles. With Avakian. These files consist mostly of photographs of the Goodman band's 1962 tour of the Soviet Union. Musicians pictured include Phil Woods, Bill Crow, Joe Newman, Mel Lewis, Zoot Sims, and Victor Feldman. Many of these images were produced for A portrait by Herman Leonard. Haley signing his Warner Brothers contract, with Avakian. See also the Music for Moderns Concert Series at Town Hall, and Rollins, Sonny. Holds a contact sheet of a Music for Moderns rehearsal (with Carlos Surinach and Anahid Ajemian) and a print of Hamilton and Anahid Ajemian together. Photographs by William Claxton. With Avakian. Publicity photographs of Hodes' small group. Portrait by Herman Leonard. With Avakian. In a recording studio, and with Ella Fitzgerald, Charles Aznavour, and Avakian. See also Ajemian, Maro. With Maro and Anahid Ajemian, and in Boston with Avakian and other friends. The material recorded at this session was finally issued in 2022 as Contact sheets and transparencies from the "Chicago Revisited" recording session. The musicians include Dick Sudhalter, Kenny Davern, Dan Levinson, Ken Peplowksi, Marty Grosz, Vince Giordano, Milt Hinton, Bob Haggart, and others. In a recording studio with Avakian and Bill Russell. See also Lloyd, Charles. Contains promotional portraits, prints of Charles Lloyd tours, and proof sheets and prints of the recording sessions for In the studio with Avakian. With Avakian. In solo performance, and with a small group. See also Armstrong, Louis. Kissing Avakian. Autographed to Avakian. See also the Lloyd files in Subseries I.B for photographs of the Lloyd quartet. Contact sheets of recording sessions and promotional shots. Members include Keith Jarrett, Jane Getz, Cecil McBee, Ron McCLure, Jack DeJohnette, and Paul Motian. Mostly live performance publicity prints, with some . Also holds slides transparencies. See also 1967 touring files under Lloyd, Charles, in Subseries I.B. for slides and Avakian's description of them. Tallin Jazz Festival. The Philippines and Thailand. Includes prints of Charles Aznavour with Avakian and Lloyd. See also Clayton, Buck. See also Belafonte, Harry. With Avakian. See also Cage, John, and Ajemian, Maro. Promotional prints. Includes a recording session with John Lewis, Ray Brown, and Avakian. See also Lloyd, Charles. With Avakian. With Avakian. See also Jarrett, Keith, and Lloyd, Charles. Includes an autographed photo of Murphy's band: Murphy, Bob Haggerty, Bob Helm, Wally Rose, and Bob Short; Avakian in the studio with Murphy; Avakian performing with Murphy; and Avakian with Murphy's wife. See also Hamilton, Chico. Photographs of rehearsals and performance. Includes Anahid Ajemian, Chico Hamilton, the Modern Jazz Quartet, Duke Ellington, Dimitri Mitropoulos, and Carlos Surinach. Baby Dodds, Natty Dominique, Johnny Dodds, Suttie Reynard, Lonnie Johnson, and Lil Armstrong. Rod Morse, Boyce Harvey, and Earl Larson. Gene Schroeder, Eddie Condon, Tony Parenti, Dave Tough, Wild Bill Davison, Jack Lesberg, and Brad Gowans. Coleman Hawkins, Artie Shapiro, Joe Marsala, Hot Lips Page, and George Wettling. Ev Schwartz, John Bergen, Ed Lilly, Johnny Windhurst, Charlie Vinal, and Inky Ingersall at Vinal's home in Massachusetts. See also Leadbelly. Jimmy Rushing, James P. Johnson, Eddie Condon, Pee Wee Russell, Wild Bill Davison, and Avakian. Includes Jimmy McPartland, Pee Wee Russell, Eddie Condon, Max Kaminsky, Bud Freeman, Zutty Singleton, George Brunies, Art Hodes, and Gerry Mulligan, Includes Herb Alpert, Louis Armstrong, Chet Baker, Count Basie, Sir Thomas Beecham, Leonard Bernstein, Art Blakey, Pablo Casals, Rosemary Clooney, John Coltrane, Doris Day, Eddy Duchin, Les Elgart, Duke Ellington, Percy Faith, Ella Fizgerald, Tommy Flanagan, Pops Foster, Juliette Greco, Freddie Green, Lionel Hampton, Eugene Istomin, Harry James, Sammy Kaye, Andre Kostelanetz, Frankie Laine, Erich Leinsdorf, Oscar Levant, Liberace, Humphrey Lyttleton, Shelly Manne, Mary Martin, Charles Mingus, Guy Mitchell, Dmitri Mitropoulos, Thelonious Monk, David Oistrakh, Eugene Ormandy, Kid Ory, Paul Price, Boyd Raeburn, Johnnie Ray, Rita Reys, Lillian Roth, Rudolf Serkin, Jo Stafford, Igor Stravinsky, Bruno Walter, Ben Webster, and Paul Weston. With Avakian at an RCA recording session for Swedish vocal group. Includes John Lewis, Gunther Schuller, and Gerry Mulligan. Avakian with the Ostwald family. See also 3 X 3. Nicholas Payton, Randy Sandke, David Ostwald, Ken Peplowski, Scott Robinson, and others. Recording session negatives and contact sheets, and Rollins and his wife with Chico Hamilton. With Don Cherry, Billy Higgins, and Henry Grimes. Prints and contact sheets. In performance, with Avakian in the audience. See also Jackson, Mahalia. Includes Russell in performance with Zutty Singleton; in the studio with Marshall Brown; and Louis Armstrong and Jack Teagarden visiting Russell in the hospital. Prints and contact sheets. Also includes an EXIF metadata file. JPG files are lower-resolution versions of the TIFF files. Box 113, folder 6 has prints of some of these files. Low resolution versions of TIFF files. 2004 photographs by Brad Edelman. Avakian with Herman Leonard, Jason Marsalis, Delfeayo Marsalis, and Yoshio Toyama. With Avakian. See also Ajemian, Maro and Anahid, and Orchestra U.S.A. Includes Shankar's first Columbia recording session, and later informal photographs with Avakian. See also Avakian, George. With Willis Conover. Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gormé. Publicity prints. See also Avakian, George. Studio recording. Negatives and contact sheet. Photographs of his band and with Avakian. Taken on personal trips. In Leningrad (Saint Petersburg), with other Soviet musicians, Avakian, Phil Woods, and Zoot Sims. With Bobby Hackett, Brad Gowan, and Avakian. Contact sheet of recording session. Each audio or video item contains one, two, or three identification codes. All items have a six-digit identification code, assigned by the Library. Many items also contain a second code with a number preceded by the letters F, S, L, or C; these numbers were assigned by Avakian's personal archivists before the collection was acquired by the library, and represent items that were originally open-reel tapes, compact audio cassettes, or digital audio cassettes. No other formats of audio or video were assigned these codes. A small number of items also bear New York Public Library call numbers (for example, *LT-10-A 4658), and some items documenting the Benny Goodman 1962 tour of the Soviet Union have yet another number, originally assigned by George Avakian. Content related to Aram Avakian and William Masselos was acquired upon their deaths when, respectively, George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian became their executors and took custody of their audio collections. This series documents the work of George Avakian, Anahid Ajemian, and a plethora of recording artists for Columbia, World Pacific, Warner Brothers, RCA, and other record labels, as well as artists not directly associated with Avakian. The series also evidences work by film editor and director Aram Avakian. It has three subseries: IV.A. Recording Sessions and Performances; IV.B. Interviews, Lectures, Home Recordings, and Other Spoken Word Recordings; and IV.C. Video Recordings. Major artists with significant material in the series include Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong, Charles Lloyd, Sonny Rollins, Anahid Ajemian, Maro Ajemian, the Composers String Quartet, Duke Ellington, Paul Desmond, Dave Brubeck, William Masselos, Keith Jarrett, Cannonball Adderley, Chet Baker, Art Blakey, John Cage, Ornette Coleman, Miles Davis, Bud Freeman, Dizzy Gillespie, Earl Hines, Alan Hovhaness, Freddie Hubbard, Mahalia Jackson, Johnny Mathis, Bob Newhart, and Ravi Shankar. The audio and video recordings, numbering over 1700, comprise studio recording sessions; live performances; interviews and oral histories with Avakian and others; radio and television broadcasts and documentaries; documentary films or video; lectures and panel discussions; home recordings by Louis Armstrong and George Avakian; and promotional films. See the subseries scope notes for more description. Many of the original media containers had papers enclosed which offer more details on the recording or its context. These have been placed in the Insert File (located at the top of subseries IV.A). The existence of this supplemental material is noted with each item. The Insert File is arranged by the six-digit Library identification number at the left of each item in the container list. Some items have significant content unrelated to the main subject of the recording which is described within the container list. Throughout the series, content which is described as "unidentified" means only that it was not known to the processing archivist, not that the contents are unidentifiable. Many of the items derived from tape media had two or more tracks on them. The contents for these items are described as "Track 1:", "Track 2:", etc. Audio and moving image materials can be used onsite at the Library for the Performing Arts. To request materials, please contact the Music Division. This subseries documents George Avakian's production work with recording artists from the 1950s to the 1980s; the work of Anahid and Maro Ajemian; and numerous other artists whose recordings were gifted or referred to Avakian for his enjoyment or audition. The recordings are comprised of studio recording sessions; unreleased live performances; demonstration recordings; and radio and television broadcasts. The subseries is arranged alphabetically by artist name or subject. Artists with the most content in the subseries are Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong, Charles Lloyd, Sonny Rollins, Anahid Ajemian, Maro Ajemian, the Composers String Quartet, Duke Ellington, Paul Desmond, Dave Brubeck, William Masselos, and Keith Jarrett. Artists with lower volumes of content, but still with unique and important recordings, include Cannonball Adderley, Luther Allison, Chet Baker, Art Blakey, John Cage, Ornette Coleman, Miles Davis, Bud Freeman, Dizzy Gillespie, Eddie Harris/Les McCann, Earl Hines, Alan Hovhaness, Freddie Hubbard, Mahalia Jackson, Johnny Mathis, Bob Newhart, Ravi Shankar, and Jimmy Smith. Large portions of the audio are composed of either studio recording sessions or unissued/partially-issued live performances. The recording sessions, often in Avakian's personal possession for review or editing purposes, usually contain multiple takes, insert takes, studio discussion, and editing attempts. Most are grouped under artists by name of the associated recording project, if known. Many of the sessions contain unedited or unreleased material. Most recording sessions are mono copies of stereo originals, but a few are in stereo and may be original masters. Live recordings consist of professionally-recorded performances, radio broadcasts, and informal recordings of varying quality. Artists with notable studio recording sessions and live content in the collection include: Benny Goodman: Extensive recordings, mostly unreleased, from Goodman's 1962 tour of the Soviet Union, sponsored by the U.S. State Department; three different sources for Goodman's 1938 Carnegie Hall concert; recording sessions for RCA; and two other unreleased live performances. Louis Armstrong: Recording sessions for the singles Mack the Knife and Six Foot Four," and the albums Charles Lloyd: Recording sessions for the albums Sonny Rollins: Recording sessions for the 1962-1964 RCA albums Anahid Ajemian: A never-released studio recording of the Maro Ajemian: A live performance of Anahid and Maro Ajemian: KQED San Francisco radio broadcasts of Beethoven sonatas for violin and piano; MGM studio recording sessions of Mozart violin sonatas; and live performances at Carnegie Hall and Lewisohn Stadium in New York City, and in San Francisco. Composers String Quartet: Recording sessions, finished masters, and a few live performances, including music by Samuel Barber, Elliott Carter, Aaron Copland, Henry Cowell, Paul Hindemith, Charles Ives, Felix Mendelssohn, Mel Powell, Ruth Crawford-Seeger, Franz Schubert, Alban Berg, and others. Most of the material is from the 1980s. Duke Ellington: Unreleased or partially-released live performances, including the 1957 world premiere of the Shakespeare suite Paul Desmond: Early recordings in 1947 and 1950; recording sessions for the 1959-1964 albums Dave Brubeck: Recording sessions for the albums William Masselos: Unissued performances, including the pianist's complete, multi-hour 1969 Carnegie Hall engagement. Keith Jarrett: Recording sessions for the albums Other notable recordings in the collection include: Chet Baker: A complete recording of Baker's performance at the Village Vanguard, New York City, on September 6, 1981 (produced by Avakian and never issued). Count Basie: Live airchecks in good sound quality (1937-1939); and a newly-discovered 1939 live performance in Glendale, California. Ruby Braff: An informal 1986 duo recording with the pianist Dick Hyman live at Struggles jazz club, Edgewater, New Jersey. Ornette Coleman: The complete recording of Coleman's 1962 performance at Town Hall, New York City, only parts of which have been previously issued. Willis Conover: A United States Information Agency memorial tribute concert for the Voice of America jazz DJ, featuring Billy Taylor, Valery Ponomarev, Paquito D'Rivera, Charlie Byrd, and others. Miles Davis: Recording sessions for the albums A Concert of Electronic Music at the International Conference of Composers, Stratford, Ontario, 1960, featuring works by Karl Hoeller, Edgard Varèse, Vladimir Ussachevsky, Henk Badings, Bruno Maderna, Luciano Berio, John Cage, and Otto Luening. A Concert of Mid-20th Century Music, presented by the Contemporary Music Society, 1960, with music by Michael Colgrass, Ernst Krenek, Henry Cowell, Lou Harrison, and Luigi Dallapiccola. Hearts for Ella: A tribute concert for Ella Fitzgerald featuring Ray Brown, Stan Getz, Phil Woods, David Sanborn, Louie Bellson, Jimmy Heath, George Shearing, Joe Williams, James Moody, Oscar Peterson, Dizzy Gillespie, Ella Fitzgerald, and more. Dizzy Gillespie: An unreleased 1947 recording of the Gillespie big band. Earl Hines: A 1956 radio program featuring Hines performing and being interviewed. Alan Hovhaness: Several never-released live performances and premieres of his music. Mahalia Jackson: Unissued performances at the Newport Jazz Festival (1963), and at the Apple Valley Columbia Distributor Convention Party (1955). Lee Konitz and Martial Solal: A 1979 recording session, only partially-issued. Johnny Mathis: Unreleased demos; recording sessions for the Gerry Mulligan: Live at the Montreux Jazz Festival (1970), and in Pennsauken, New Jersey (1960). Bud Powell: Solo and duo recordings with Marian McPartland and Ed Thigpen in 1953, never issued. Art Tatum: An informal 1940 recording with musicians from the Jimmy Lunceford orchestra, never issued. Tbilisi Interjazz Festival 1989: Performances by Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers, Freddie Hubbard, the Eddie Harris/Les McCann Quartet, Jimmy Smith, Luther Allison, and the Niels-Henning Ørsted Pedersen / Kenny Drew Duo. Clark Terry: A performance in Staten Island, New York (1962). Ben Webster: Private unreleased recordings (1937). Dick Welstood: A live recording at the New School with clarinetist Kenny Davern, unreleased, about 1974. Also present are unique recordings of Adelaide Hall, Marty Grosz, Bud Freeman, Jon Hendricks, Nancy Harrow, and Lee Wiley. Victor Sobolenko, cello, and Igor Tkachenko, piano. Highlights from a concert in St. Petersburg, Russia. Two tracks, no titles present. See also Ponomarev, Valery, under Video Recordings. Valery Ponomarev, trumpet; Valodya Sermakashov, tenor saxophone; Alex Kofman, valve trombone; John Bunch, piano; Richard Davis, bass; and Oliver Jackson, drums. Volga Boatman, Dark Night, Billie's Bounce, Doxy, Medley: The Man I Love/Lover Man/What's New. Prison Song. Two takes of a solo performance, never released. Recorded during the sessions for the Gil Evans - Adderley album See also the recording session for Concerto Petite under Hamilton, Chico. Anahid Ajemian, Rolf Schulte, violins; Rebecca LaBrecque, piano; Ben Herman, timpani; Michael Pugliese, Joseph Grable, percussion; Alvin Brehm, conductor. Premiere performance at Columbia University's McMillin Theater, sponsored by Columbia Composers. Track 2: Premiere performance. Anahid Ajemian, violin, with an ensemble conducted by Gustav Meier. It is unclear which of these is the original recording, or if both are copies of an original not present in the collection. Premiere performance. Anahid Ajemian and the Paul Price Percussion Ensemble. Held at St. Vartan Cathedral, New York City. Track 1: Ajemian with Mark Shuman, cello, with the Columbia University Orchestra. An edited master recording, never released. See the files for A Tribute to Anahid Ajemian in Series III, which includes the program, photographs, and clippings regarding this event, which honored both Ajemian's music career and her importance in the Armenian diaspora. Track 1: Part 1. Track 2: Part 3. Track 1: Part 2, featuring William Masselos, Elliott Carter, and The Manns. Track 2: Part 4: Srpazan, Anahid Ajemian speaks. Track 1: The tape box notes "Hindemith" but the piece does not sound like any of the three Hindemith sonatas for solo violin. Track 1: Ajemian with an unidentifed male pianist. Unidentified violin/piano work second movement (take 6), third movement. Unidentified violin/piano work second movement (take 7 and 8). Track 2: A Lou Harrison symphony and the Dave Brubeck quartet performing In Your Own Sweet Way, both copied from commercially-released albums. Beethoven: Sound is distorted. Pieces by Henry Cowell, Anton Webern, and Darius Milhaud. Three takes of each. All unreleased. Takes 3 and 4 of first movement of unidentified sonata. Finale of unidentified sonata, 4 takes and inserts. Track 1: Unidentified violin/piano work. Track 2: Unidentified flute/orchestral work (not related to the Ajemians). A studio recording, never issued. The stereo master has some distortions not present on the safety copy. Mastered from a V-Disc by Steve Smolian. Possibly by Mozart (incomplete recording). Track 1: Commercially-issued material by Gerry Mulligan and Chet Baker. Track 2: A recording session for the Ajemians. Second movement (work unidentified), takes 3-5. Recorded in San Francisco, California. A WNYC radio broadcast. With the Lewisohn Stadium Symphony, conducted by Thomas Scherman. Camille Saint-Saëns: Camille Saint-Saëns: Ernest Chausson: Works by Beethoven, Prokofiev, and Debussy. A program for this performance may be in box 88, folder 23. This piece was composed for the Ajemians. Possibly a master. In Europe. Unidentified piece for violin and piano. Unidentified piece for violin and piano. See also Lisitsian, Pavel. Edited master tape. Ajemian with the Juilliard Orchestra, Albert Stoessel conducting. Copied from a disc recording. Radio broadcast. Conducted by Arthur Fiedler. Maro Ajemian and William Masselos, pianos. Studio recording, never issued. The piece begins at 00:02:00. Music is preceded by a radio broadcast of a baseball game. Music begins at 00:30:28. Edited master. KPFA radio broadcast, Berkeley, California. Home recording. Unidentified work, with discussion. St. Vartan Armenian Apostolic Church, Oakland, California. Works for solo piano; violin and piano; and solo violin. With Anahid Ajemian, violin. A program, clippings, and photographs of the concert are in box 86, folders 12-17. See also Eaton, John. Bill Smith, clarinet; John Eaton, piano; Erich Peter, bass; and Pierre Favre, drums. All contents are multiple selections which segue into each other. "Original outtakes." Bill Smith, clarinet; John Eaton, piano; Richard Davis, bass; Paul Motian, drums. The Lonely Monk, The Loneliest Monk, Cheryl. Makin' Whoopee, Autumn In Rome, It's All Right With Me, The Garden of Eaton, Little Wille Leaps, Shortnin' Bread, For Sale, Cheryl, Messina (takes 9 and 10), The Loneliest Monk (Take 1, and composite of takes 5, 6, and 3). Avakian's notes are in the inserts file. A collection of rare 78 RPM releases on the Pharos, Yeldez, Rec-Art, and other labels. See the insert file for a complete listing of artists, tracks, and discographical information. Artur Veranian, conductor. Unidentified titles. Two tracks. See also the Armstrong home recordings in subseries IV.B Blues, I Got Rhythm, Jeepers Creepers, Honeysuckle Rose, On the Sunny Side of the Street, Tiger Rag. Louis Armstrong, trumpet, vocal; Jack Teagarden, trombone, vocal; Bud Freeman, tenor saxophone; Fats Waller, piano, vocal; Bob Spergel, guitar; Pete Peterson, bass; George Wettling, drums. With Louis Armstrong, trumpet; Albert Nicholas, clarinet; Baby Dodds, drums; Pops Foster, bass; Art Hodes, piano; George Brunies, trombone; Danny Barker, guitar; Wild Bill Davison, trumpet. Hosted by Rudi Blesh. An ABC radio broadcast. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Tin Roof Blues, Announcement, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, S'Wonderful, Perdido, Velma's Blues, The Dummy Song, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Armstrong with Barney Bigard, clarinet; Trummy Young, trombone; Billy Kyle, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass; Velma Middleton, vocals; unidentified drummer. See the insert file for a letter to Avakian from collector/discographer Jos Willems that accompanied this recording. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Ole Miss, Someday, Stompin' at the Savoy, Perdido, Mama's Back in Town. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Someday, Ole Miss, Dardanella, A Kiss to Build a Dream On, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Second part of the broadcast only. Voice of America Jazz Hour with Willis Conover. Announcement, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Perdido, You Made Me Love You, Whispering, Mack the Knife, Stompin' at the Savoy, Undecided, Mop Mop, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Audio of a television broadcast. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Tiger Rag, Now You Has Jazz, High Society Calypso, Ole Miss, Undecided, Yellow Dog Blues, Mack the Knife, Lover Come Back to Me, Can't Help Lovin' That Man, When the Saints Go Marching In. Audio only. When the Saints Go Marchin' In, When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, So Long Dearie, Mack the Knife, commercial, A Kiss to Build a Dream On, When I Grow Too Old to Dream, On the Alamo, Blueberry Hill, Lover Come Back to Me, Can't Help Lovin' That Man, Bill Bailey, Ugly Child, How High the Moon (incomplete). Armstrong with Russell "Big Chief" Moore, trombone and vocal; Eddie Shu, clarinet; Billy Kyle, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass; Danny Barcelona, drums; Jewel Brown, vocals. The audio portion of a television broadcast. Track 1: When It's Sleepy Time Down South; Mack the Knife; Undecided Now; Mood Indigo; That's My Desire; There'll Be Some Changes Made (Jewel Brown vocal); I Left My Heart in San Francisco (Jewel Brown vocal); The Bare Necessities; What A Wonderful World; Hello Dolly. Armstrong with Tyree Glenn, trombone and vocals; Joe Muryani, clarinet; Marty Napoleon, piano; Buddy Catlett, bass; Danny Barcelona, drums; and Jewel Brown, vocals. Track 2: "Letter to Ronnie" - a near inaudible recording of Armstrong speaking; Hello Dolly with Barbra Streisand (from the commercially-released film). See the insert file for information regarding the digital transfer of this material for Avakian in 1998. See subseries IV.B for a longer version of the broadcast regarding Armstrong's crowning as King of the Zulus. WDSU Broadcast of an Armstrong New Orleans performance and Armstrong being crowned King of the Zulus (1949); Armstrong on the Dick Cavett Show (1970, begins at 34:26); and the All Stars live (1958, begins at 43:18): Six Foot Four, Muskrat Ramble, Long John Gone From Bowlin' Green, unidentified, St. Louis Blues, Kokomo, When the Saints Go Marchin' In. Armstrong with Edmond Hall, clarinet; Trummy Young, trombone; Billy Kyle, piano; Mort Herbert, bass; Danny Barcelona, drums; Velma Middleton, vocals. Parts 1-5 recordings were derived from tapes compiled by the French discographer/collector Iwan Fresart. Put Em Down Blues, Davenport Blues, Apex, Blues, Minor Drag, Wolverine Blues, A Monday Date, Chimes Blues, What'cha Call 'Em Blues, Heebie Jeebies, China Boy, St. James Infirmary, That's A Plenty, Hindustan. Someone to Watch Over Me (Earl Hines feature), Honeysuckle Rose, Them There Eyes, Ain't Misbehavin', Where Did You Stay Last Night (2 versions), Dear Old Southland, High Society, Someday (You'll Be Sorry), When It's Sleepy Time Down South, On the Sunny Side of the Street, When the Saints Go Marchin' In, St. Louis Blues, Black and Blue, Mahogany Hall Stomp, Royal Garden Blues, Brother Bill, Back O' Town Blues, I'll Be Glad When You're Dead You Rascal You. Tea For Two, unidentified, Someday (You'll Be Sorry), Heebie Jeebies, Back O' Town Blues, Muskrat Ramble, Rockin' Chair, St. Louis Blues, Rose Room, announcements, unidentified, A Monday Date, Where Did You Stay Last Night, On the Sunny Side of the Street (2 versions), Back O' Town Blues. Louis from the Sky, Louis at Orly, Black and Blue, Where Did You Sleep Last Night, A Monday Date, Panama, That's My Desire, Where Did You Sleep Last Night (2 versions), On the Sunny Side of the Street (2 versions), Tea For Two, Dear Old Southland (2 versions), High Society, Someday (You'll Be Sorry), When It's Sleepy Time Down South, On the Sunny Side of the Street, When the Saints Go Marchin' In, St. Louis Blues. See the insert file for exact dates of recording of each track. Aint' Misbehavin', Where Did You Sleep Last Night, Honeysuckle Rose, Them There Eyes, Someone To Watch Over Me, unidentified (blues), Black and Blue, Mahogany Hall Stomp, Royal Garden Blues, Brother Bill, Back O'Town Blues, Muskrat Ramble, Rockin' Chair, St. Louis Blues, Rose Room, unidentified, Back O'Town Blues, Heebie Jeebies, Someday (You'll Be Sorry). This recording duplicates portions of part 3. The last three tracks of this recording were made in New York, not France. Dear Old Southland, Black and Blue, Royal Garden Blue, Stars Fell On Alabama, Lover, I Cried For You, Buzz Me, You Rascal You, Tea For Two, How High The Moon, Someday You'll Be Sorry, Someone To Watch Over Me, Honeysuckle Rose, Back O'Town Blues. Armstrong with Jack Teagarden, trombone and vocals; Barney Bigard, clarinet; Earl Hines, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass; Sid Catlett, drums; and Velma Middleton, vocals. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Mahogany Hall Stomp, On The Sunny Side Of The Street, High Society, Basin Street Blues, Baby Won't You Please Come Home, That's My Desire, C-Jam Blues, Body And Soul, Muskrat Ramble, St. Louis Blues, Steak Face, I Cried Last Night, When the Saints Go Marchin' In, Ain't Misbehavin'. The first 12 tracks are from the Paris concert. The last two are from unknown sources. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Indiana, Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Perdido, Back O' Town Blues. The date is approximate. Back Home Again in Indiana, When It's Sleepy Time Down South (2 versions), On the Sunny Side of the Street, Blueberry Hill, Black and Blue, Mack The Knife. The recording container did not specify where each track was recorded. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Way Down Yonder in New Orleans, unidentified, Lover Come Back to Me, Can Anyone Explain, St. Louis Blues, On the Alamo, Tin Roof Blues, How High the Moon, A Kiss to Build a Dream On. Armstrong with Bob McCracken, clarinet; Trummy Young, trombone; Marty Napoleon, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass; Cozy Cole, drums; Velma Middleton, vocals. Saturday Night, A Kiss to Build a Dream On, Lover Come Back To Me, You're Just in Love, Baby Won't You Please Come Home, Take the A Train, Nobody, September in the Rain, Little Rock Getaway, Blueberry Hill, Steak Face, When It's Sleepytime Down South, God Save the Queen. Armstrong with Russ Phillips, trombone and vocals; Joe Sullivan, piano; Dale Jones, bass and vocals; Cozy Cole, drums; Velma Middleton, vocals; and the Kitsilano High School Band and Bobby Hughes, vocals (on September in the Rain only). Track 1: When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, Blueberry Hill, C'est Si Bon, Way Down Yonder in New Orleans, Coquette, Lover Come Back to Me, St. Louis Blues, Tea for Two, A Kiss to Build A Dream On, Bugle Blues/Ole Miss, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Track 2: Armstrong receives the keys to the city, Struttin' With Some Barbeque, Back O' Town Blues, Muskrat Ramble, Velma's Blues, I Wonder Why, Stompin' At the Savoy, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Armstrong with Barney Bigard, clarinet; Russ Phillips, trombone; Marty Napolean, piano; Dale Jones, bass; Cozy Cole, drums; Velma Middleton, vocals. Tracks 1-11 recorded in Stockholm on October 2, the rest in Stockholm. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, Basin Street Blues, Struttin' With Some Barbeque, The Gypsy, When the Saints Go Marching In, Pretty Little Missy, Tin Roof Blues, Sweet Georgia Brown, St. Louis Blues, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Stockholm: Introduction, When It's Sleepy Time Down South, A Kiss to Build a Dream On, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Stompin' at the Savoy, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Armstrong with Trummy Young, trombone; Edmond Hall, clarinet; Billy Kyle, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass; Barrett Deems, drums; Velma Middleton, vocals. St. Louis Blues, Back Home Again in Indiana, When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Nobody Knows the Trouble I've Seen/Lonesome Road/Shadrack, When the Saints Go Marchin' In, West End Blues, Mahogany Hall Stomp, Struttin' With Some Barbecue, Ain't Misbehavin'. The final track is in France in 1948, not at the orchestral performance. Armstrong with George Chisholm, trombone; Sid Phillips, clarinet; Dill Jones, piano; Lennie Bush, bass; Jack Parnell, drums; and the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, Norman Mar, conductor. Royal Festival Hall, London. Louis Armstrong and the All Stars with Lizzie Miles: Don't Talk About Me When I'm Gone, Nobody Knows You When You're Down and Out, Nobody's Sweetheart Now, Basin Street Blues (with Dizzy Gillespie, trumpet, and Burt Bales, piano), Mamma Don't Allow. Louis Armstrong and His All Stars: Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again In Indiana, Blueberry Hill, How Jazz Is Made (Now You Has Jazz), High Society Calypso, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Perdido. The Louis Armstrong All Stars: Peaunuts Hucko, clarinet; Trummy Young, trombone; Mort Herbert, bass; Billy Kyle, piano; Danny Barcelona, drums; Velma Middleton, vocals. Track 1 (Concertgebouw, Amsterdam): Autumn Leaves, Waiting for the Sunrise, I Get Ideas, I Cover the Waterfront, Ol' Man River, Mack the Knife, Tenderly, Stompin' at the Savoy, When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Struttin' With Some Barbecue, La Vie En Rose, St. Louis Blues, Ko Ko Mo, When the Saints Go Marchin' In. Track 2 (Ancienne Belgique, Antwerp): When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Indiana, Basin Street Blues, Tiger Rag, Now You Has Jazz, Love Is Just Around the Corner, C'est Si Bon, Mack the Knife, Stompin' at the Savoy, St. Louis Blues, Ko Ko Mo, When the Saints Go Marchin' In, La Vie En Rose. Personnel for both performances: Armstrong with Trummy Young, trombone and vocals; Peanuts Hucko, clarinet; Billy Kyle, piano; Mort Herbert, bass; Danny Barcelona, drums. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, A Kiss to Build a Dream On, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Tiger Rag, Stompin' at the Savoy, Blueberry Hill, Canal Street Blues, Dippermouth Blues, Dear Old Southland, St. Louis Blues, Can't Help Lovin' That Man, All of Me, When the Saints Go Marching In, Struttin' With Some Barbecue. Armstrong with Trummy Young, trombone, vocals; Joe Darensbourg, clarinet; Billy Kyle, piano; Bill Cronk, bass; Danny Barcelona, drums; Jewel Brown, vocals; Yank Lawson, trumpet (on Canal Street Blues, Dippermouth Blues, When the Saint Go Marching In, and Struttin' With Some Barbecue); J.C. Higginbotham, trombone (on Dear Old Southland, When the Saint Go Marching In, and Struttin' With Some Barbecue). Back Home Again In Indiana, My Bucket's Got A Hole In It, Tiger Rag, Now You Has Jazz, High Society Calypso, unidentified, unidentifed (Trummy Young feature), The Yellow Dog Blues (W.C. Handy), Mack the Knife, Lover Come Back to Me, Can't Help Lovin' That Man, When the Saints Go Marching In. Armstrong with Trummy Young, trombone; Joe Darensbourg, clarinet; Billy Kyle, piano; Bill Cronk, bass; Danny Barcelona, drums; Jewel Brown, vocals. Armstrong with Trummy Young, trombone; Barney Bigard, clarinet; Joe Bushkin, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass; Cozy Cole, drums; Velma Middleton, vocals. Tin Roof Blues, High Society, Hallelujah, Margie. Big Mama's Back in Town, That's My Desire, Russian Lullaby, Bugle Blues/Ole Miss. These recordings contain the entire concert, including Helen Hayes's narration of "50 Years of Jazz," which was never released. The narration is in between the music selections. Armstrong with Edmond Hall, clarinet; Trummy Young, trombone, Billy Kyle, piano; Dale Jones, bass; Barrett Deems, drums; and Velma Middleton, vocals. Recorded live at Medinah Temple, Chicago. There are two sources of this concert present. The first are open-reel tapes, possibly copies of the original masters. The second came from cassette tapes derived from a 1994 re-mastering, sent to Avakian for his reference. Flee As a Bird to the Mountain/Oh Didn't He Ramble; The Memphis Blues/Frankie and Johnny/Tiger Rag; Do You Know What It Means To Miss New Orleans. Basin Street Blues, Black and Blue, West End Blues, On the Sunny Side of the Street, Struttin' With Some Barbecue, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Manhattan/When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, The Gypsy, The Faithful Hussar, Rockin' Chair. My Bucket's Got A Whole In It, Perdido (Billy Kyle feature), Clarinet Marmalade (Edmond Hall feature), Mack the Knife, Tenderly/You'll Never Walk Alone, Stompin' at the Savoy, Margie (incomplete). Margie (complete), Mama's Back in Town, That's My Desire, Ko Ko Mo I Love You So, When the Saints Go Marching In, The Star-Spangled Banner. Track 1 (reel 1): Sound check/rehearsal before the concert. Helen Hayes narration of 50 Years of Jazz. Track 2 (reel 2): The concert. Helen Hayes narration, Flee As a Bird to the Mountain/Oh Didn't He Ramble, The Memphis Blues/Frankie and Johnny/Tiger Rag, Do You Know What It Means To Miss New Orleans, Basin St. Blues (incomplete). See the insert file for more information from Sony Music Studios, who sent these transfers to Avakian. Track 1 (reel 3): Basin Street Blues (complete), Black and Blue, West End Blues, On the Sunny Side Of the Street, Strutting With Some Barbecue, When It's Sleepy Time Time Down South. Track 2 (reel 4): Helen Hayes narration, Manhattan/When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, The Gypsy, The Faithful Hussar, Rockin' Chair, Bucket's Got A Whole In It, Perdido (incomplete). See the insert file for more information. Track 1 (reel 5): The Bucket's Got a Hole In It (complete), Perdido, Clarinet Marmalade, Mack the Knife, Medley: Tenederly, You'll Never Walk Alone, Stompin' At the Savoy, Margie (incomplete). Track 2 (reel 6): Margie (complete), Mama's Back In Town, That's My Desire, Kokomo, Drum Solo, When the Saints, Conclusion, National Anthem. Loveless Love (rehearsal and studio conversation), Long Gone (rehearsal, studio conversation, and takes 1-3). Loveless Love (rehearsal and studio conversation). Track 1: Aunt Hagar's Blues (takes 1-10). Track 2: The Memphis Blues, Beale Street Blues, Ole Miss Blues, Chantez les bas, Hesitating Blues, Atlanta Blues. Version 1: Lotte Lenya vocals only. Version 2: Possibly the master. Version 3: Fragment of version 2. Version 4: Instrumental only. See the insert file for description. The recording session is preceded by a copy (the original is with the interviews in subseries IV.B under Armstrong) of the Avakian-Armstrong interview regarding the of the The tape begins with a September 10, 1956 Miles Davis recording session (see a duplicate of this session under Davis). The Armstrong session begins at 17:00. Mack the Knife take with Lotte Lenya alone, takes with Armstrong alone, multiple takes and inserts of Armstrong/Lenya duet, with discussion. The last four minutes is an unidentified live recording of the Charles Lloyd quartet. Copies of recording session tapes. Tiger Rag (two takes), You Can Depend On Me, Lonesome Road, That's Plenty (two takes). Dardanella (three takes), I Can't Give You Anything But Love (vocal by Ray Martini) Columbia recording session for the Reprise recording session, Boston, November 1965: Someday Sweetheart, Back O' Town Blues, Ole Miss, Muskrat Ramble. Armstrong with Tyree Glenn, trombone; Buster Bailey, clarinet; Billy Kyle, piano; Buddy Catless, bass; and Danny Barcelona, drums. Live at the Hollywood Palace, May 1, 1965: Old Man Time. Armstrong with Jimmy Durante, vocals, and a studio orchestra. See the insert file for discographical information on all of the above. Royal Garden Blues (December 20, 1955, Milan); Tin Roof Blues (October 30, 1955, Amsterdam); The Faithful Hussar (December 20, 1955, Milan); Muskrat Ramble (Amsterdam). See tape insert. Some of the selections represent multiple versions of edits and audience overdubs. Twelfth Street Rag, All of Me, Twelfth Street Rag, Undecided, Dardanella, West End Blues, Tiger Rag, All of Me. Reference transfers made in 1994. Track 1 (reel 1A): 12th Street Rag (multiple takes). Track 2 (reel 2A): Six Foot Four (multiple takes), All of Me (takes 3-6). See the insert file for more information. Track 1 (reel 1B): 12th street Rag (multiple takes and edits). Track 2 (reel 2B): 12th Street Rag (announcement takes), Six Foot Four (multiple takes), All of Me (multiple takes). See the insert file for more information. Six Foot Four (takes 1-6), Twelfth Street Rag (rehearsal and takes 1-3). Two takes, possibly singles, different from versions on the final album. Sent to Avakian for his review in 1999. Track 1 (reel 1B): I've Got A Feeling I'm Falling (takes 1-6 and two insert takes). Black and Blue (takes 1-3). Track 2 (reel 2B): Black and Blue (two inserts). Honeysuckle Rose (takes 1-7). Ain't Misbehavin' (takes 1-3). See the insert file for more information. Track 1 (reel J157354): Ain't Misbehavin' (takes 1-2). Track 2 (reel J13537): Keeping Out of Mischief Now (takes 1-10). See the insert file for more information. Track 1 (reel 13501B): All That Meat and No Potatoes (takes 1-4). Track 2 (reel J154003S): Mack the Knife, Ain't Misbehavin', St. Louis Blues (none of those three from April 27, 1955). See the insert file. Track 1 (reel 1B): Crazy 'Bout My Baby (takes 1-7B and inserts 1-5). Track 2 (reel 2B): I'm Crazy 'Bout My Baby (special inserts 3-4), Blue Turning Grey Over You (takes 1-5 and inserts), Squeeze Me (takes 1-7). See the insert file. Track 1 (Reel 1A): Keeping Out of Mischief (takes 1-10). Track 2 (Reel 2B): Squeeze Me (takes 1-6). Armstrong with Trummy Young, trombone; Barney Bigard, clarinet; Billy Kyle, piano; Barrett Deems, drums; and Velma Middleton, vocals. See the insert file for more information. All tape inserts for these sessions include notes from the original tape boxes. Used in the film Track 1 (reel 6B): St. Louis Blues - Concerto Grosso. Track 2 (reel 7A): Leonard Bernstein introuction. St. Louis Blues (second take). Louis Armstrong remarks. When the Saints Go Marchin' In. Track 1 (reel 8A): Basin St. Blues. Ed Morrow apology for camera malfunction, St. Louis Blues. Track 2 (reel 8B): Basin St Blues, St Louis Blues (both same as on track 1), Ed Murrow goodnight. Samples of songs, with versions performed first by others, then by Armstrong. All material is commercially-released but edited and sequenced, probably to support a lecture or presentation. See the insert file for a list of songs, performers, and timings. Music examples for a lecture. All commercially-released. Audio components of the films. Live at Empress Hall: Mack the Knife, My Bucket's Got a Hole In It. In Africa--"All For You" (at airport), Tribal Scene, Speech, Royal Garden Blues, Speech by Armstrong, Black and Blue, Ole Miss. Audio problems throughout. See the insert file. Track 2: An episode of Edward R. Murrow and Fred Friendly's series. The episode was re-edited to become the film The soundtrack of the film, which is not the same as the audio on the Columbia album of the same name. These were created by Avakian, or gifted to him. All are comprised of released material. A collection of 23 songs and performances that were influences on Louis Armstrong, all commercially-released. The collection was compiled for Avakian by Dan Levinson. See the insert files for the complete track listing, artists, and dates. A mix of selections featuring Armstrong with either Hall or Bigard. See the insert file for recording dates and locations. New Orleans Stomp, I Want a Little Girl, Mahogany Hall Stomp, Lovely Weather We're Having, High society, Body and Soul, I'm Confessin' I Surrender Dear, How High the Moon, Roseroom, Squeeze Me, Cottontail, Black and Blue, All Of Me, Dardanella, Clarinet Marmalade, Tin Roof Blues, Ole Miss, The Faithful Hussar, Basin St Blues, When You're Smiling, Them There Eyes, Mahogany Hall Stomp. A pianist, and a friend and colleague of the Ajemians. Presented by the Advisory Council for Armenian Studies at Columbia University, led by Şahan Arzruni, who gives an introduction explaining sacred Armenian music, followed by an unidentified solo male vocalist performing a sharagan (hymn) sung during Easter (incomplete, as the recording cuts off). Unidentified composition. A recording sent to Lionel Galstaun, Ajemian's husband. Futility, Stepped on Dog, Trouble of the Rich, Ooh Poo Pah Doo. Troubles of the Rich, Futility, Every Step. Multiple takes. A song composed by Avakian, who thought Louis Armstrong could have a hit with it. Avakian sings the melody on these demo recordings. Two versions, the second directed at Louis Armstrong, suggesting the song could could be a hit similar to Mack the Knife. Multiple takes. Recorded with a studio orchestra. Fog in the Morning, I Want To Be Your Blanket, Long. Helen Avakian: guitar, vocals, keyboards; Terry Champlin, guitars, bass; Mike Sirotta, percussion, keyboards. All songs by Helen Avakian. Little Green Man (Avakian/Gorman/Dileo), Sickabed (Avakian), Mia (Gorman/Dileo). Tristan Avakian, guitars; John Gorman, vocals; Paul Dileo, bass; Vic Richards, drums. Recorded at Satellite Studios, New York City, and Screaming Digital. Mixed at Millbrook by Paul Orofino. See also Video Recordings. The Woman I Love (David Azarian); Darn That Dream (Jimmy Van Heusen); Get Out of Town (Cole Porter). Other personnel unidentified. Track 1: June 5, 1997. Azarian with John Lockwood, bass, and Bob Weiner, drums. Prayer; Living in Jazzland; Song for Christina. Track 2: May 14, 1991. Azarian with Marty Ballou, bass, and Bob Gullotti, drums. Song for Vickie; Darn That Dream; Get Out of Town; Embraceable You. David Azarian Quartet live: Azarian, piano; Rob Scheps, tenor saxophone; Dan Greenspan, bass; Bob Moses, drums. Hope; Living in Jazzland. Azarian playing Roland JV1000, JV80, E-MU System, Korl OLW, and Yamaha PF85. Azarian with an unidentified guitarist, bassist, and drummer. Unknown titles. A Few Thangs, Come of Age. Unidentified personnel. The recorded accompaniment of electronic sound only, not the full work. Unidentified choral/orchestral or operatic work, possibly by Badings. KOLN, Lincoln, Nebraska. Various performances by Bailey. Star Eyes (NKHA-1968), Blues in the Closet (NKHA-1969), These Foolish Things (NKHA-1970), Well You Needn't (NKHA-1963), Ballata in Forma Di Blues (NKHA-1964), Pent Up House (NKHA-1965), Over the Rainbow (NKHA-1966), Barbados (NKHA-1967) See papers regarding this recording in subseries I.B, under Baker. This recording was produced and paid for by Avakian, but was never issued. Baker, trumpet and vocals, with Phil Markowitz, piano; Dennis Irwin, bass; and Leo Mitchell, drums. Beautiful Black Eyes, Shifting Down (by Kenny Dorham), The Thrill is Gone. Just Friends (end of first set), Leaving (by Richie Beirach, start of second set), Margerine (by Hal Galper), There Will Never Be Another You. Continuation of second set: My Funny Valentine, There Will Never Be Another You, Night Bird. Start of last set: Beatrice, The Touch of Your Lips (Jon Burr on bass), For Minors Only (Jimmy Heath). Last set continued: You Can't Go Home Again, But Not For Me, Conception. Just Friends, Leaving, Ah-Leu-Cha. Unidentified (one track). An unreleased live recording with Bales, piano, Marsala, trumpet, Vince Cattolica, clarinet, Bill Smith, trombone, and an unidentified bassist and drummer. Introduction by Dizzy Gillespie, Wolverine Blues, Sweet Substitute, A Monday Date, Big Butter and Egg Man, Basin Trombone Blues, Clarinet Marmalade. A CBS broadcast of a transcribed legend for Christmas. Written by Ray Darby, directed by William M. Robeson. Narrated by Lucille Ball. Panama, Chimes Blues, Stevedore Stomp. Barber, trombone, with unidentified personnel. A piece commissioned by Jazz at Lincoln Center in 1995, performed by Art Baron and the Duke's Men. Two tracks. The second side of the tape is noted copyright 1993. Track 1: New York Giants vs the Brooklyn Dodgers playoff game, October 3, 1951 (1st and 9th innings only). Track 2: New York Yankees vs New York Giants World Series game 3, October 3, 1936. Most of these live recordings have seen either major label or illegal issue, but the sound quality here is superior in many cases. Live radio broadcasts from the Chatterbox at the Hotel William Penn in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 1937; the Savoy Ballroom, June 30, 1937; and the Meadowbrook Ballroom, Cedar Grove, New Jersey, 1937. Meadowbrook Ballroom, November 1937; BBC America Dances broadcast, June or July 1938; The Famous Door, Manhattan, 1938. The Famous Door, Manhattan, fall 1938. A tape copy of acetate recordings made by Charles Campbell, an art collector and jazz fan. Track 1: Count Basie Orchestra in Glendale, California, 1939. One Hour Tonight (Helen Humes, vocal); Lady Be Good; Roses of Picardy (Jimmy Rushing, vocal); Especially For You (Helen Humes, vocal); Pound Cake; The Sun's Gonna Shine in My Back Door Someday (Jimmy Rushing, vocal); One O'Clock Jump. Track 2: Jelly Roll Morton and others (no other information available). See the insert file for a 1996 letter from Campbell to Avakian that accompanied the tape and describes a second recording he enclosed (see Tatum, Art, item 407505). Splicing edits of a live performance. Down for Double, Don't Explain, Tea for Two, Bang Bang (My Baby Shot Me Down), Doodlin', A Sleepin' Bee, In A Mellotone, Golden Slumbers/unidentified, The Dry Cleaner From Des Moines, Blackbird/Bye Bye Blackbird, Doodlin', Rain, Billy Taylor interviews Bavan. Hosted by Billy Taylor. Bavan, vocals, with Sy Johnson, piano, vocals, arrangements; Harvie Swartz, bass; and Joe La Barbera, drums. Hosted by Dick Hyman. Hyman, piano, with Vince Giordano and the Chicago Loopers: Giordano, bass saxophone, with Tom Pletcher, cornet; Peter Ecklund, trumpet; John Frosk, trumpet; Chuck Wilson, saxophone; Dan Block, saxophone. Dan Barrett, trombone; Dan Levinson, clarinet; Cynthia Sayer, guitar; Arnie Kinsella, drums; and the Manhattan Rhythm Kings: David Lisker, guitar, vocals; Michael Reeder, soprano saxophone, vocals; Brian Nalepkia, string bass, vocals. Track 1: S'Wonderful (dance band style), S'Wonderful (in Beiderbecke style), I Got Plenty o' Nuttin', He Loves and She Loves, Sweet and Lowdown, Looking for a Boy, The Man I Love, Jilted, Lady Be Good, Bidin' My Time. Rialto Ripples, In A Mist, Embraceable You, I Got Rhythm, Somebody Loves Me, Fascinating Rhythm, Sunny Disposish, Nice Work If You Can Get It, Slap That Bass. Dave Bennett, clarinet. No other personnel are identified. Shine, Just a Closer Walk With Thee, Runnin' Wild, Bucky's Solo, Bei Mir Bist du Schoen, It Could Happen To You, Blue Horizons, At the Jazz Band Ball. Blues My Naughty Sweetie Gave to Me, St. James Infirmary, Them There Eyes, She's Funny That Way, Avalon, Truck, Hindustan. Track 1: Flying High, Black and Brown, Waltz for Mommy, Tributary, Resolution No. 9, Chopsticks. Track 2: Remember Your Tomorrow, Fragment, Secret Language Into Seasons Change, Purple Robes. Three works. Berio: Unidentified. Maderna: See also the short promotional film A View from a Microphone: A Day at Columbia Records, in Videos in subseries IV.C. Avakian noted that this recording was from a television broadcast. The Gin Done Done It, Cleopatra Had a Jazz Band, Tain't So, Everybody Does It In Hawaii. Peter Gerler, guitar, Doug Pomeroy, jug and washtub bass; Uttal (first name unknown), banjo. Other personnel, unknown. See the insert file for more information and a note from Pomeroy to Avakian. See also Lee, Jeanne. Track 1: Windy (by Ran Blake, arranged by Bill Russo); Daydream (by Billy Strayhorn, performed by Ron Gill); unidentified; Laura; unidentified; Dark Lantern (spoken word piece by Steve Elman); My One and Only (Marty Yasin(?), vocals, with Harvey Diamond, piano); unidentified solo pianist; message from Michael Cuscuna; unidentified piece for two guitars, harmonica, trumpet, and drums; message from Larry Livingston; Keep Looking Up (Reverend Hubert Powell, piano; Hubert Powell III, organ; William Powell, drums, Kevin Powell, keyboard bass); There's Been A Change (Powell family and choir of Jacqueline Powell, Pam Younger, Tasha Gardner, Debbie Gardner, Dwayne Gardner, Wesley Wright, Chantel Branch, Debbie Perry, April Broome). Track 2: Unidentified solo pianist; unidentified piece for wind ensemble; Joe Lovano piece for solo tenor saxophone; Schluff Meine Kind (Hankus Netsky, clarinet and piano; and Linda Chase, flute); Hot Pepper (Claire Ritter, piano and composition; Taki Masuko, percussion); message from George Avakian; unidentified theatre/music piece; Bill Corbett reads from See also the Tbilisi Interjazz Festival recordings. Exhibit A, Scotch Blues (take 1), Ritual, Wake Up, Once Upon A Groove, Sam's Tune (take 3), Little T (first chorus insert take 8), Touche. Blakey, drums, with Bill Hardman, trumpet; Jackie McLean, alto saxophone; Sam Dockery, piano; and Spanky DeBrest, bass. A rehearsal of a student bongo/percussion band, or possibly a class. This rehearsal also includes the students singing. Previous content on the tape was not fully erased and can be heard at times. Richard Pittman, conductor. Track 1: All About Rosie (George Russell), All Set (Milton Babbitt), Ellington, Hoffer. Track 2: Franco Donatoni, On Green Mountain (Harold Shapero), Shostakovich, Tiger Rag. Track 1: Iron Man; Autumn Leaves. Track 2: Once I Loved; Waltz for Debby; Breaking Air. Boyajian, violin. All other players unidentified. Braff, trumpet, with Al Cohn, tenor saxophone; Jim Hall, guitar; Hank Jones, piano; George Duvier or Bob Haggart, bass; and Buzzy Drootin, drums. I Got Rhythm, Bidin' My Time, But Not For Me. All with multiple takes. I Got Rhythm, Could You Use Me, Treat Me Rough, What Has Love Done For Me. All with multiple takes. Braff, trumpet, and Hyman, piano. Jubilee, Keepin' Out of Mischief, Squeeze Me, Gosse Pimples, Swing That Music, When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Jitterbug Waltz, I'm Shooting High, Careless Love/Old Fashioned Love, Rosetta, Poor Butterfly, The Man That Got Away. This was an informal live recording. From a radio broadcast. A radio broadcast of a performance by the Edwin Franko Goldman Band with Mel Broiles as featured composer and trumpet soloist, followed by an unidentified ballad performance for trumpet and jazz big band; and an unidentified performance by a quartet of trumpet, piano, bass, and drums. Conducted by Jorge Mester. Boyce Brown, alto saxophone; Harvey Brown, guitar; Earl Larsen, bass; Rod Morris, drums. Unidentified titles, recorded at radio station WHO, Des Moines, Iowa. The recording is preceded and followed by commentary from Harvey Brown. See also the interviews with Brubeck in subseries IV.B. Why Do I Love You. Take 2 (edited), Take 1, Take 2, Take 3, Insert 1, Insert 3. Two Sleepy People (3 takes); The Masquerade is Over, One Moment Worth Years. One Moment Worth Years, Let's Get Away From It All (3 takes), St. Louis Blues. St. Louis Blues (continuation from 400015), The Masquerade is Over, One Moment Worth Years, Lover Come Back To Me (2 takes). Lover Come Back to Me, St. Louis Blues. The tape box marked St. Louis Blues "excellent." Brubeck playing at the home of Avakian (first minute of tape). Brubeck and Paul Desmond make a recording for a "Columbia House Party" promotional release. Jeepers Creepers (unidentified live recording). Recorded message from Guy Lombardo to the National Recording Arts and Sciences meeting, around the time of the start of the Academy. Track 1: So This Is Love (takes 1-7). Track 2: Very Good Advice (mono takes 1-2, stereo takes 1-2). Brubeck with Paul Desmond, alto saxophone; Norman Bates, bass; and Joe Morello, drums. A radio roadcast on KDGU. Brubeck with Paul Desmond, Bob Bates, and Joe Dodge. Gone With the Wind, The Blues. Here Lies Love, Lover. When The Saints Go Marching In, Brother Can You Spare A Dime, The Duke, In Your Own Sweet Way, Take The A Train. Balcony Rock, Here Lies Love, Brother Can You Spare a Dime, Let's Fall In Love, For All We Know, I'll Never Smile Again, These Foolish Things. Brubeck with Paul Desmond, Bob Bates, and Joe Dodge. Also featuring The Australian Jazz Quartet (Jack Brockensha, Dick Healey, Erroll Buddle and Bryce Rhode), and Carmen McRae. Carmen McRae: A Foggy Day, Darn That Dream, Love Is Here To Stay. McRae with Gerry Mulligan, Peck Morrison, and Dave Bailey: Sometimes I'm Happy, They All Laughed. Brubeck with Paul Desmond, Bob Bates, and Joe Dodge:. Gone With the Wind, In Your Own Sweet Way (possibly the first recording of the tune), Lover. Broadcast on WVET. Brubeck, piano, with Paul Desmond, alto saxophone; Norman Bates, bass; and Joe Dodge, drums. Out of Nowhere, The Duke, In Your Own Sweet Way, Back Bay Blues, Look for the Silver Lining, Balcony Rock. What Will It Take, You Go To My Head (February 17). Stardust, Stompin' for Mili, Pennies from Heaven (February 24). The Basin Street Jazz Show, presented by CBS radio and the United States Treasury Department. Brubeck with Paul Desmond, Norman Bates, and Joe Dodge. Out of Nowhere, One Moment Worth Years, Two Part Contention, The Duke. Brubeck, Paul Desmond, Norman Bates, Joe Dodge. Swing Bells, Two Part Contention, Dialogue for Jazz Combo and Symphony Orchestra (second movement, by Howard Brubeck), She Died, I'm In A Dancing Mood. Out Of Nowhere, Take The A Train, Brother Can You Spare A Dime, Audrey, All The Things You Are, Don't Worry 'Bout Me, Trolley Song. Brubeck with Paul Desmond, Norman Bates, and Joe Dodge. Swing Bells, Two-Part Contention, Howard's Gb Theme, She Died, I'm In A Dancing Mood. Out Of Nowhere, Take The A Train, Brother Can You Spare A Dime, Audrey, All The Things You Are, Don't Worry 'Bout Me, Trolley Song. Brubeck with Paul Desmond, Norman Bates, and Joe Dodge. Second half, part two: All The Things You Are, unidentified, The Trolley Song. First half begins at 21:06:. Swing Bells. Out of Nowhere, Take the A Train, unidentified, unidentified. Two Part Contention, Dialogue for Jazz Combo and Symphony Orchestra (second movement, quartet only, premiere). She Died, I'm In A Dancing Mood. Blues, I'm In A Dancing Mood, Two Sleepy People, Take The A train (start). The recording has pitch/speed issues. Masquerade, Two Sleepy People. The Song Is You, Let's Fall In Love, Don't Worry 'Bout Me, Le Souk, In Your Own Sweet Way (incomplete), She Died. The last two tracks are not from the live performance. I'll Never Smile Again, Let's Fall in Love, Give a Whistle. Unidentified, Trolley Song, For All We Know. Followed by a Kansas University football game broadcast. Brubeck with Paul Desmond, Eugene Wright, and Joe Morello. Unidentified, unidentified, Two Sleepy People, No Blues. She Died (cut off at 35 seconds), unidentified (distorted audio). Possibly in Fayetteville, Arkansas. Gone With the Wind, The Blues, Lover, Jeepers Creepers (beginning) Jeepers Creepers (ending), Brother Can You Spare A Dime, Lover Come Back to Me, In Your Own Sweet Way. When the Saints Go Marching In, Out of Nowhere, The Duke, The Trolley Song, Take the A Train (incomplete). Take the A Train (ending), and Brubeck announcement. (Audio ends at 00:01:37). San Diego Symphony, Robert Shaw conducting. Daniel Weltlinger, violin; Geoffrey Bull, cornet; John Bates, valve trombone; Paul Furiss, simple system clarinet; Stan Valacos, bowed bass; Paul Finnerty, Spanish guitar; Anthony Howe, trap drums; Daniel Hardie, convenor and compere. Audio recorded in performance on September 21, 2005 (tracks 1, 3, 6, 7, and 10), and April 14, 2007. A solo piano album. Some songs have multiple takes. Butman, saxophones; Harvey Swartz, bass; Dennis Mackrel, drums; Steve Amirault, piano. L.S.; It Could Be Cool; Peace; Monk in Russia; Where Is Wolf; Strange and Beautiful Siberia. Track 1: Sonnymoon For Two (Butman with Steve Amirault, piano; Eddie Gomez, bass; and an unidentified drummer. Track 2: Unidentified vocalist and band: The Queen of the Night, Step Seven. Butman with an unidentified rhythm section. Track 1: I Love You; Body and Soul; unidentified; Question and Answer; Autumn Leaves. Track 2: Unidentified smooth jazz recording (not Butman). A digitization of tapes dubbed from 12-inch aluminum discs, borrowed by John McDonough from Dick Rieber in 1970. McDonough sent the CD transfer of the tapes to Avakian in 2002. Some of the material has been commercially released. Includes performances at the Café Society or on WNEW by the Frankie Newton Orchestra, Mead Lux Lewis, Albert Ammons, Billie Holiday, Joe Turner, Jack Teagarden, Louis Armstrong, and a small band led by Duke Ellington. See the insert file for complete information and a letter from McDonough. See also the photographs of Avakian Family and Friends for a group photograph taken at a party following this concert. The premiere performance at the McMillin Theater, Columbia University. The concert also featured the music of Lou Harrison, Henry Cowell, and Bill Russell. This recording was produced, released, and sold by Avakian. It was later released on the Wergo label. Recorded at Town Hall, New York City. Stereo master recordings. An appearance on the French television program New Morning (audio only). Canonge, piano, with an unidentified bassist and drummer. Track 1: If I Didn't Have You (1995). Track 2: In Another Life (1992). Vocal with synthesized backing. A copy of acetates held by the ragtime, blues, and New Orleans jazz scholar Roy Carew. Scat Song (Jelly Roll Morton), Every Little Bit Helps (Carew), Jophaya, Jelly Roll Blues, Cascades (pitch-corrected), Sunflower pitch-corrected), Something Doing (in two segments), Maple Leaf Rag, Swipesy (pitch-corrected). Two takes. The tape box is dated January 21, 1955, but Celestin died in 1954. Darktown Strutters' Ball, Tiger Rag (takes 1-3). The tape box is dated January 21, 1955, but Celestin died in 1954. Possibly from radio broadcasts. On the Sunny Side of the Street, other tunes unidentified. A promotional sampler Recorded in Munich, Germany. Believe, Madrigal #1, Madrigal New York, Nyet (takes 3 and 4). Al Cohn, arranger, leader; Art Farmer, flugelhorn; Bob Brookmeyer, valve trombone; Phil Woods, alto sax; Zoot Sims, tenor saxophone; Nick Brignola, baritone saxophone; John Bunch, piano; Bill Crow, bass; Walter Perkins, drums. This session was part of the "Jazz Mission to Moscow" album series released on the Roulette label. Parts of this performance were issued on the ESP label, but these recordings (copies of the originals) represent the complete concert. See the full discographical entry in Ornette Coleman, alto saxophone, with David Izenzon, bass, and; Charles Moffett, drums, with other musicians on some tracks, listed below. Three unidentified selections, the final one being a David Izenzon bass solo. The Ark. Blues Misused (with Chris Towns, piano; Napoleon Allen, guitar; and Barney Richardson, bass), Sadness (same performance as on part 5), unidentified, unidentified. Dedication to Poets and Writers (String quartet of Selwart Clarke and Nathan Goldstein, violins; Julian Barber, viola; and Kermit Moore, cello), Doughnut, unidentified. Sadness (same performance, twice, identical to the performance on part 3). Music for a film. Beyond Tomorrow, Boot Camp, Claudia's Theme, Down Under, On the Beach, Midnight, The Flying Prince, Launch Pad, Coins, Running Scared, Linda Lovelace, The Flame and the Fire, Reminiscing, Pygmies and the Elephant, The Letter, Man the Tanks!, Brasilia, Dam Break, Escape. Unidentified woman vocalist and pianist. Songs written especially for the occasion by Milton Babbitt, Barbara Kolb, and John Eaton, followed by a rehearsal recording with songs by Leonard Bernstein, John Duffy, Francis Thorne, and John Harbison. Recorded at the School of Music, State University of New York, Purchase. Recording sessions at Skinner Hall, Vassar College. Multiple takes. Skinner Recital Hall, Vassar College. See the insert file for the concert program. Tape portion only; the quartet does not appear on this recording. Recording sessions at Skinner Hall, Vassar College. Multiple takes. Recording sessions at Skinner Hall, Vassar College. Multiple takes. Released on the Musical Heritage Society label. For each of the following items, see the associated insert file for recording notes. Anahid Ajemian and Matthew Raimondi, violins; Jean Dane, viola; Mark Shuman, cello. Released on Musical Heritage Society. Master recording. Master recording. Track 1: Matthew Raimondi, Anahid Ajemian, Jean Dane, Mark Shuman. Track 1: A radio review by Charles Greenfield of the quartet's world premiere of Elliott Carter's fourth string quartet and Beethoven's quartet no. 14 at Festival Miami on September 17, 1986. A Canadian Broadcasting Corporation International Service broadcast. Karl Hoeller: "Whither Modern Music" panel discussion with Helmut Blume, Edgar Varese, Armando de la Vega, Jim Hamilton, Victor Legley, Karl-Birger Blomdahl, Anthony Hopkins, Ernst Krenek, Jean-Papineau-Couture, Walter Susskind, Gunther Schuller, and Alfred Frankenstein. Music is preceded by an explanatory narration by the CBC announcer and Henk Badings. Henk Badings: Presented by the Contemporary Music Society, the Rockefeller Institute, and the Manhattan Music at the Caspary Auditorium, York Avenue and 66th street, New York City. Broadcast on WNYC radio. Track 1: Wild Bill Davison, trumpet; Pee Wee Russell, clarinet; Jack Teagarden, trombone, vocals; Eddie Condon, guitar; Gene Schroeder, piano; Morey Rayman, bass; Johnny Blowers, drums. Aunt Hagar's Blues (4 takes); Down Among the Sheltering Palms (6 takes); Ida! Sweet as Apple Cider (4 takes), unidentified tune on Sweet Georgia Brown chord changes (5 takes). Condon, guitar with; Pee Wee Russell, clarinet; Max Kaminsky, trumpet; Bud Freeman, tenor saxophone; Cutty Cutshall, trombone; Dick Cary, piano; Leonard Gaskin, bass; George Wettling, drums. Chicago (take 1), Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble (takes 1-4), Someday Sweetheart (take 1-3), Friar's Point Shuffle (take 1-2), Someday Sweetheart (take 5). The first 12:55 of the recording is an unidentified violin/piano duo (possibly the Ajemian sisters) performing an unidentified piece from the classical era. Starting at 18:45 is a recording session for Eddie Condon's This is the audio track of the video of the same title (see Video Recordings, subseries IV.C). This recording is in stereo and of better quality. See the entry under Video for contents. Cooke, solo piano, vocals, and whistling. Blue Skies, Ellington Blues, 12-Bar Blues, T-Bone Blues, Love Sick Maid, Wild Track Blues, Mamie's Blues. Possibly an audition tape. Most likely a radio program about Cooke. A reading (reader unknown) of one of Cooke's essays about jazz, interspersed with music and recordings of Cooke. Includes an account of Cooke meeting Duke Ellington, and excerpts of an Ellington recording session attended by Cooke around 1946. Recording session for the cast album for the Off-Broadway revival, released on MGM. Gershon Kingsley, pianist and musical director. See also the file for the musical in Series I.B. Recorded in Chicago. Daley, tenor saxophone, with Russell Thorne, bass, and Hal Russell, drums. The Clown from Naptown, Nell Spelled with a K, Helicon Number Two. The Clown From Naptown, Helicon Number 1. The first track composed by Daley, the second by Russell Thorne. Ode to Blackie, One Note, Ramblin'. First two tracks composed by Daley, the third by Ornette Coleman. Glass Ladder (takes 1-4), Helicon Number Two (takes 2-4). Daley, tenor saxophone, with Russell Thorne, bass, and Hal Russell, drums. Helicon Number Two, Ballad, Beearock, No Connection, Knell. See also Wellstood, Dick; Hyman, Dick (One Step To Chicago), and Sandke, Randy. A memorial radio broadcast for clarinetist Kenny Davern, who had died shortly before, hosted by Eric Offner. Performed by Gerry Mulligan, baritone saxophone; Bob Brookmeyer, valve trombone; Bill Crow, bass; and Dave Bailey, drums. Music, lyrics, and vocals by Davis, Vignola on guitar. Once Upon a Time, It's Your Time, A Hot Afternoon in July, Good Ole New York Was Cool Man, There's a Shadow on the Moon, Growin' Old, Black Birds Flyin' In the Rain, Blind Man Blues, My Symphony, I Love My Wife But Oh You Kid, Sweet Thing, Sunshine, My Dancing Lady, Then Who Would I Sing My Songs, Those Moanful Blues, That's the Samba, Why Don't You Love Me, The Time Is Now. Sweet Sue, Just You (takes 4-8.) Davis, trumpet, with John Coltrane, tenor saxophone; Red Garland, piano; Paul Chambers, bass; and Philly Joe Jones, drums. From 15:55 to the end, the tape has several minutes of Louis Armstrong's 1955 Mack the Knife recording session (in duet with Lotte Lenya). See the Mack the Knife sessions under Armstrong for longer versions of this session. See also Avakian's interview with Davis, recorded after this session was completed, in Interviews in subseries IV.B. Davis with a studio ensemble, conducted and with arrangements by Gil Evans. Track 1 (reel 1 and start of reel 2): New Rhumba (takes 1-5), Blues for Pablo (takes 1-2). Track 2 (end of reel 2 and start of reel 3): Blues for Pablo (insert takes), Springsville (rehearsal and takes 1-7). Springsville (take 8, with no overdubs). Générique, L'Assassinat de Carala, Sur l'autoroute, Julien dans l'ascenseur, Florence sur les Champs-élysées, Dîner au motel, Évasion de Julien, Visite du Vigile, Au bar du Petit Bac, Chez le Photographe du motel, Nuit sur les Champs-Élysées. All were commercially released, except for the final track, which is not any of the four released takes. Miles Davis, trumpet; Barney Wilen, tenor saxophone (except for the final track); René Urtreger, piano; Pierre Michelot, bass; Kenny Clarke, drums. Recorded in Paris. Seven Steps to Heaven (multiple takes), So Near So Far (multiple takes), Joshua (multiple takes). Davis, trumpet; George Coleman, tenor saxophone; Herbie Hancock, piano; Ron Carter, bass; Tony Williams, drums. Multiple takes. Recorded in Hollywood, California, with a studio orchestra conducted and arranged by Gil Evans. Never issued. Track 1: First concert - Directions, Miles Runs the Voodoo Down, I Fall In Love Too Easily, Sanctuary, It's About Time, The Theme. Track 2: Second concert - Directions, Miles Runs the Voodoo Down, I Fall In Love Too Easily, Sanctuary, It's About Time, The Theme. Davis, trumpet; Wayne Shorter, tenor and soprano saxophones; Chick Corea, electric piano; Dave Holland, acoustic and electric bass; Jack DeJohnette, drums; Airto Moreira, percussion. This was Wayne Shorter's second-to-last live appearance with Davis. Never issued. Track 1: Back Seat Betty; My Man's Gone Now; Aida. Track 2: Ife; Fat Time; Jean Pierre. Davis with Bill Evans, saxophones and flute; Mike Stern, guitar; Marcus Miller, bass; Al Foster, drums; and Mino Cinelu, percussion. A radio program on WBGO Newark, hosted by Loren Schoenberg, with commentary from Avakian. Two tracks. Davis, an organist, is not to be confused with the trumpeter Wild Bill Davison. Unidentified (take 6), Slouch (take 3 and inserts), Tomcat (take 3), unidentified (rehearsal). DeJohnette, drums piano, and vocals, with John Abercrombie, 6 and 12-string guitar; Mick Goodrick, guitar; and Clint Houston, bass. Free improvisation, Lina (by Clint Houston), unidentified. Unidentified (with unidentified woman vocalist). Content from opposite side of the tape leaks onto the track (backwards). Two tracks. The first is duplicated from part 1, the second has unique content. Debarre and Vignola, guitars; Burr, bass. Recorded at Nola Recording Studios. Theme from Borsalino, Stardust, Venez Donc Chez Moi, The Old Gypsy, Clouds, Swannee River. All with multiple takes. See the insert file for the recording data sheet. Nuages, Stompin' at Decca, Louise, Avalon, I Can't Give You Anything But Love, Stardust, Theme from Borsalino. The Kent Jorgensen Quartet, San Francisco, 1947: Squeeze Me, I May Be Wrong, Royal Garden Blues, I've Got You Under My Skin. Jorgensen, trumpet and vocals; Desmond, clarinet; Larry Vannucci, piano; Billy Grant, bass. The Jack Sheedy Band, San Francisco, 1950: How Long Baby How Long (parts 1 and 2), The Man I Love, Down In Honky Tonk Town. Sheedy, trombone, vocals, drums; Jack Minger, cornet; Desmond, clarinet and alto saxophone; Norman Bates, piano; Bob Bates, drums; Cuz Cousineau, drums and vibraphone; Joe Dodge (possibly), drums on the The Man I Love. Desmond with Jim Hall, Percy Heath, and Connie Kay. East of the Sun (takes 1-15). See the insert file for the recording session data sheets for this entire day. East of the Sun (take 17-19), unidentified (takes 8-11), I Get A Kick Out of You (takes 1-4). I Get A Kick Out Of You (takes 5-7) I Get A Kick Out Of You (takes 8-9), Greensleeves (takes 1-3). Greensleeves (takes 4-8), East of the Sun (takes 20-22). East of the Sun, Greensleeves, I Get A Kick Out Of You, For All We Know. Two Degrees East Three Degrees West (takes 1-5). You Go To My Head (takes 1-3). You Go To My Head, Two Degrees East Three Degrees West (takes 8-9), Time After Time (take 3), Susie (takes C-D). Time After Time (2 takes), unidentified (multiple takes). Recorded at Webster Hall. Autumn Leaves (take 4), Imagination (take 3), Audrey (unidentified take), Imagination (introduction only). This item duplicates much of part 2, except for the presence of take 3 of Imagination. Orchestral backing only, without Desmond. Autumn Leaves (take 4), Imagination (rehearsal and takes 1-2), Audrey (unidentified take), Imagination (introduction only). All tracks are orchestral backing only, without Desmond's later overdubs. Autumn Leaves. Multiple takes of orchestral backing, without Desmond. Autumn Leaves (take 4), Imagination (rehearsals and takes 1-2), Audrey, Imagination Introduction. Autumn Leaves (take 3 and 4), Audrey (without Desmond). Embarcadero (multiple takes). El Prince (multiple takes). Paul Desmond, alto sax; Jim Hall, guitar; Gene Cherico, bass; Connie Kay, drums. El Prince (takes 9-10) Recorded for RCA at Webster Hall. Desmond, alto saxophone; Mulligan, baritone saxophone; Jim Hall, guitar; John Beal, bass; and Ed Shaughnessy, drums. Untitled Blues Waltz, two takes. Blues, two takes. Whistling Blues, Easy Living, Look for the Silver Lining, Two of a Mind (not the issued take). All The Things You Are, Untitled Blues Waltz. Neither take is released. Untitled Blues Waltz (takes 2-3), Autumn Leaves (multiple takes of orchestral backing only). The latter tune is from a session for Polkadots and Moonbeams (takes 3-6). Desmond with Jim Hall, guitar, and unidentified bass and drums. Desmond, alto saxophone, with Jim Hall, guitar; Eugene Wright, bass; and Connie Kay, drums. Samba Cepeda (takes 5-6). Three-track tape. Track 1: guitar. Track 2: drums and bass. Track 3: alto saxophone. Samba Cantina (rehearsal and takes 1-6). The Night Has A Thousand Eyes (take 2, unused). Colagera La Bella (takes 4-7). Three-track tape. Track 1: guitar. Track 2: Drums and bass. Track 3: alto saxophone. Desmond, alto saxophone, Jim Hall, guitar, Eugene Wright, bass, Connie Kay, drums. Illegal Samba (takes 3-4). Any Other Time, Alianca, Curacao Doloroso, Gato. Recorded at RCA studio A. O Gato (4 takes), A Ship Without A Sail (2 takes). Angel Eyes (takes 1-4). All Through the Night (takes 2-3) All Across the City (takes 3-5), All Through the Night (takes 4-6). All Through the Night (takes 7-8), Bewitched Bothered and Bewildered (take 5), All Across the City (take 6), All Through the Night (take 9). Here's That Rainy Day (multiple takes and false starts), All Across The City, I've Grown Accustomed to Her Face, Easy Living. A quartet recording with Jim Hall. There are two simultaneous recordings audible, making identification difficult. Malcolm Dodds singing with a studio orchestra. The original tape box was marked "Aram's tape," suggesting it was for Aram Avakian's use. These are all studio recordings, without the crowd overdubs heard on the released album. Doggett, organ, with Carl Pruitt, bass; Billy Butler, guitar; George Alvin Johnson, drums; Jim Powell, alto saxophone; Ray Felder, alto and tenor saxophones; and Floyd Harry Johnson, baritone saxophone. The Slouch (overdub take 1); Po' Boy, Roly-Poly (take 3); Track 29 (short version and long version); Coffee's Theme (short and long versions); Mousey; Sparrow; "Girl in the Night" Theme (not Doggett). Happy (take 9); unidentified; (Let's Do) The Hully Gully Twist; Tom Cat; You Can't Sit Down (long version, take 1); Roly-Poly; unidentified; unidentified; Track 29 (short version). Donelian, piano, with Thomas Chapin, alto saxophone and flute; Calvin Hill, bass; and Jeff Williams, drums. Track 1: Mexico; Jabberwackey; Acid Dream. Track 2: Loose as a Goose; Angel Eyes. All selections except Angel Eyes composed by Armen Donelian. See also Hovenasian, Datevik. Dippermouth Blues 1, Gut Bucket Blues 1, I Wonder 1, Mack the Knife 1, Memories of You 1, Sweet Hunk O' Trash 1, That's My Home 1, That's When I'll Come Back To You 1, Tight Like This 1, Two Deuces 1, When You're Smiling 1, What a Wonderful World 1, Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams 1. None of the versions on this recording are the same as on the final album. Dr. John with Kenneth "Afro" Williams, congas; John Fohl, guitar; David Barard, bass; Raymond Weber, drums; Sarah Morrow, trombone and arrangements; Gary Winters, trumpet; Alonzo Boyd, tenor saxophone; and guests the Blind Boys of Alabama, Roy Hargrove, James Andrews, René Marie, Wendell Brunious, Arturo Sandoval, and Kermit Ruffins. What A Wonderful World, That's My Home, Dippermouth Blues, Blues in the Night, Memories of You, Sweet Hunk O'Trash, Makin' Whoopie, unidentified, unidentified, unidentified, Gut Bucket Blues. Unidentified, When You're Smiling, I'll Be Glad When You're Dead You Rascal You, unidentified, Mack the Knife, Wrap Your Troubles In Dreams, unidentified, When the Saints Go Marchin' In. A tune by Lil' Hardin Armstrong, originally recorded by Louis Armstrong. Vocals with piano accompaniment. Where Does the Wind Blow Boy, Get Behind, London Song, It's Better to Be Married, The Maple Tree, My Heard and I, Never to Be Lonely. Unidentified performers. You Are Near (Boy), Fly Away Bird (Wilfred), I Was Right (Wilfred), Reprise of My Heart and I (Girl and Boy), The Happy End (Wilfred), Anna's Song (Boy's Mother), Journey Song (Boy, Parents, Wilfred), The Fish (Boy and Wilfred), Girl's Father's Song, Hot Roast Goose for Dinner. Beautiful, Jam, Original Song. Possibly a demo of recordings engineered by Eargle. The final movement of an unidentified piano concerto, an unidentified opera aria, an unidentified piece for Spanish guitar, a pop recording of an unidentified vocal group, an unidentified vocalist singing No Way Out, and an unidentified vocalist singing Do You Know What It's Like To Be Lonely. This was Shorter's first recording session. Too Close For Comfort (take 1), Hallelujah (take 1), My One and Only Love (take 2), What Is This Thing Called Love (take 1), Fugue (takes 1-2). Eaton, piano and arrangements; Dick Lincoln, vibes and marimba; Ed White, bass; Alan Bergman, drums; Wayne Shorter, tenor saxophone and clarinet; unidentified trombonist. Recorded at Columbia 30th street studio. See also Cooke, Alistair; part 2 of the interview with Vincent Liebler, under Interviews in subseries IV.B; and the short film A View from a Microphone: A Day at Columbia Records in Video Recordings, subseries IV.C. Track 1: Soundtrack of the McNeill television program (to 8:30). The remainder of track 1 and all of track 2 consists of material from Ellington's NBC Treasury Bond radio shows of August 11 and September 26, 1945 (commercially-released as These are compilations of rare or unreleased Ellington material assembled by scholars and distributed to Ellington Society members at conferences. Assembled by the Ellington scholars Sjef Hoefsmit and Benny Aasland for distribution to members of the Duke Ellington Music Society at the 1991 Ellington conference in Los Angeles, California. See the insert file for more information on the recording. Some of this material may never have been commercially-issued. Track 1 (compiled by Sjef Hoefsmit): The Old Circus Train Blues (New York City, 18 August 1966); Swamp Goo, Girdle Hurdle, The Shepherd, Up Jump, Rue Bleue (Los Angeles, 23 June 1967); Chromatic Love Affair (Cincinnati, early 1967?); Chromatic Love Affair, Salome (Los Angeles, 23 June 1967); Harry Carney interview fragment (New York City, 20 December 1966); Blood Count (Los Angeles, 23 June 1967). Track 2 (compiled by Benny Aasland): Kinda Dukish-Rockin' In Rhythm, In A Sentimental Mood (Stockholm 8 June 1963); Take The A Train, Afro-Bossa, Perdido, Medley: Satin Doll/In My Solitude/Don't Get Around Much Anymore/Mood Indigo/I'm Beginning To See The Light/Sophisticated Lady/Caravan/Do Nothing Til You Hear From Me/I Got It Bad/Just Squeeze Me/It Don't Mean A Thing/I Let A Song Go Out Of My Heart/ Don't Get Around Much Anymore, Take The A Train (Stockholm, 9 June 1963). Distributed at the 1999 Ellington Study Group Conference held in Washington, D.C. Track 1: Selections from "The River" (Ellington solo piano): The Spring; The Meander; The Giggling Rapids; The Lake; STUD. The Giggling Rapids; Flute; The Giggling Rapids; SOFT; Blousons Noir; EGGO; F.L.; I'm Hip Too; Mendoza. Track 2: MIXT, All Too Soon (2 versions); MKIS; TOGO; Taffy Twist; Hy'a Sue; Kinda Dukish and Rockin' In Rhythm; PEKE. See the insert file for more details and specific recording dates. An ABC radio broadcast. August 5th: Squeeze Me, Take the A Train, Royal Garden Blues, I Like the Sunrise (Chester Crumple, vocal), Sophisticated Lady, Brown Penny (Kay Davis, vocal), Blue is the Night. August 6th: Take the A Train, Flippant Flurry, It's Kinda Lonesome Out Tonight (Chester Crumple, vocal), Hollywood Hangover, Tulip or Turnip (Ray Nance, vocal). August 7th: Take the A Train, Lady of the Lavender Mist, Hy'a Sue, Azalea (Chester Crumple, vocal), Caravan. January 17th, 1945 (At Philharmonic Auditorium, Los Angeles): Frankie and Johnny. See the insert file for more information. The Star Spangled Banner, Three Cent Stomp, Lady of the Lavender Mist, Suddenly It Jumped, Reminiscing In Tempo, She Wouldn't Be Moved. See the insert file. Unidentified (Harry Carney feature), Symphomaniac (Symphonic or Bust, How You Sound), My Friend (Al Sears feature), Tootin' Through the Roof, Creole Love Call, The Tatooed Bride. Take the A Train (Manhattan Murals), Lush Life (performed by Billy Strayhorn and Kay Davis), H'Ya Sue, Fantazm. Y'oughta, Brown Betty, Humoresque, How High the Moon (featuring Ben Webster), Cotton Tail (featuring Ben Webster), Don't Be So Mean To Baby (Al Hibbler, vocals), Lover Come Back To Me (Al Hibbler, vocals). Trees, It's Monday Every Day, Medley: Don't Get Around Much Anymore, Do Nothin' Till You Hear From Me, In A Sentimental Mood, Mood Indigo, I'm Beginning to See the Light, Sophisticated Lady, Caravan, It Don't Mean A Thing, In My Solitude, I Let and Don't Get. Limehouse Blues, Just A-Sittin' and A'Rockin, Blue Skies, Things Ain't What They Used To Be. Track 1 (Live in Coeur d'Alene, 1953): V.I.P Boogie, Jam With Sam, Duet, Satin Doll, Caravan; Medley: Don't Get Around Much Anymore/In A Sentimental Mood/Mood Indigo/I'm Beginning to See the Light/Sophisticated Lady/It Don't Mean A Thing/In My Solitude/I Let A Song Go Out of My Heart; I Can't Give You Anything But Love. Live in Seattle, 1952: Caravan; The Mooche; Medley: Don't Get Round Much Anymore/Mood Indigo/I'm Beginning to See the Light/Prelude to a Kiss (start). Track 2: Prelude to a Kiss (conclusion)/I Let A Song Go Out of My Heart/Don't Get Around Much Anymore; unidentified; Take the A Train; unidentified; unidentified; Sophisticated Lady; unidentified; Ornithology (cut off). See the insert file for a note that accompanied this tape from engineer Jack Towers to Avakian describing the contents and significance of the Idaho recording, dated 1995. The 1999 remaster of the performance, phase corrected and re-leveled by Steven Lasker. The Ellington Orchestra with special guest stars. Track 1: Festival Suite; Tea for Two (Buck Clayton, trumpet, and Hank Jones, piano, with some of Ellington's musicians); Ad Lib Blues; Perdido, Fingerbuster, and (When You) Squeeze Me (three tunes performed by Willie "the Lion" Smith, piano; Arthur Trappier, drums; Walter Page, bass; and Buck Clayton); The Hawk Talks (beginning). Track 2: The Hawk Talks (conclusion); I Got It Bad and That Ain't Good; Take the A Train; Ad Lib Blues (with guests); Mood Indigo. See the insert file for a circa 1987 note to Avakian from Jack (presumably Towers), who says the recording was made by Jerry (presumably Valburn), and was soon to be released by the International Association of Jazz Record Collectors (on IAJRC 45). Take the A Train, Black and Tan Fantasy, Creole Love Call, unidentified, The Mooche, Soul Call, Chelsea Bridge, West Indian Pancake, El Gato, Veldt Amour, The Opener, African Flower, unidentified, Come Sunday, Work Song, Magenta Haze, unidentified. Liverpool University concert (conclusion): Medley: Satin Doll/In My Solitude/Don't Get Around Much Anymore/Mood Indigo/I'm Beginning to See the Light/Sophisticated Lady/Caravan/Do Nothing 'Til You Hear from Me, Things Ain't What They Used To Be, God Save the Queen. London concert: Take the A Train, Red Garter, unidentified, My Funny Valentine, Juniflip, Frustration, On the Sunny Side of the Street, Things Ain't What They Used To Be, El Gato, Newport Up, Tenderly, Boo-Dah. The last five minutes of Ellington's performance. Father Norman O'Connor gives awards to Johnny Hodges and the entire orchestra. Ellington talks about Bull Connor and the events in Birmingham,. Alabama. Track 1: C Jam Blues, Black and Tan Fantasy, Creole Love Call, The Mooche, Rockin' In Rhythm, Happy Reunion, Take the A Train, Fife, Chinoiserie, I Can't Get Started, A Tone Parallel to Harlem. Track 2: Perdido, Togo Brava Suite (Soul Soothing Beach, Naturellement, Amour Amour, Right On Togo), Come Off the Veldt (drum solo), Don't Get Around Much Anymore, Mood Indigo, I'm Beginning To See The Light, In My Solitude, It Don't Mean A Thing, I Got It Bad, Everybody Wants To Know, Sophisticated Lady, Caravan, Satin Doll, Things Ain't What They Used To Be, Aristocracy A La Jean Lafitte, Addi, How High the Moon, Lotus Blossom. Cootie Williams, Johnny Coles, Harold "Money" Johnson, Eddie Preston, and Mercer Ellington, trumpets; Booty Wood, Malcolm Taylor, and Chuck Connors, trombones; Russell Procope, clareint and alto saxohone; Norris Turney, flute, clarinet, alto saxophone, tenor saxophone; Harold Minerve, clarinet, alto saxophone, flute, piccolo; Harold Ashby, tenor sax, clarinet; Paul Gonsalves, tenor saxophone; Harry Carney, baritone saxophone, clarinet, bass clarinet; Duke Ellington, piano; Joe Benjamin, bass; Rufus Jones, drums; Nell Brookshire and Toney Watkins, vocals. Track 1: Members of the Ellington band playing with Indian musicians. Track 2: Ellington playing solo piano. Track 3: Ellington playing solo piano, joined by an unidentified trumpeter, followed by more of the Ellington musicians playing with Indian musicians. 1940 broadcasts: Unidentified (Ivy Anderson, vocal), Body and Soul (Herb Jeffries, vocal), Take the A Train, Me and You (Ivy Anderson, vocal), Jack the Bear (Jimmy Blanton feature), Concerto for Cootie, Ko-Ko, Orchids for Remembrance. Studio recordings (not Ellington): unidentified, Three Little Words, Rockin' Chair, unidentified, unidentified. Last track is a 1936 Ellington rehearsal. When It's Sleepy Time Down South (vocal by Sonny Greer), Lazy River. (Publix Allyn Theatre, Hartford, Connectut, April 11, 1932). Lazy Rhapsody A, False start, Lazy Rhapsody B (February 2, 1932). Rehearsal at Studio Zanibelli. The following content is on the two tracks on this tape and continued on part 2 (407390): On the Sunny Side of the Street (brief takes); Rue Bleue (17 takes); Beautiful Woman Walks Well (19 takes); Wild Onions (21 takes); Johnny Come Lately (2 takes); Girdle Hurdle (2 takes); The Shepherd (9 takes). See the insert file for more details and personnel. See 407373 for contents. Two tracks. Track 1: Unidentified Ellington piece performed live with organist (probably Wild Bill Davis); An interview with Ellington in which he discusses I'm Checkin Out - Go'om Bye (from radio broadcast, November 24, 1939); Lazy Rhapsody (takes A and B, undated); Saturday Night Swing Club broadcast of the Hot Club of France (copy of 400942 Saturday Night Swing Club Anniversary Party, Part 2). Unidentified male vocalist performing a rhythm and blues-type song with the Ellington orchestra, followed by an up-tempo version of Body and Soul performed by an unidentified female vocalist with the Ellington orchestra. DJ Phil Schaap plays and discusses the Ellington performance at the 1956 Newport Jazz Festival and the reissue of the resulting live album, produced by Schaap. Two tracks. Track 1: Schaap on WKCR. Track 2: Unidentified electronic dance music. Two tracks. A WCPN Cleveland radio program on the composition, performed live at Severence Hall, Cleveland, Ohio. Conducted by Christopher Cherney. Featuring Candido, Joya Sherrill, Britt Woodman, Barry Lee Hall, Sayyd Abdul al Khabyyr, Darby Dizard, and Cleve Douglas. One multi-movement, unidentified work. Cue 6A (takes 27-28), Cue 3 (take 44). Baby What Do You Want Me To Do, A Change of Heart, Silent Treatment, Made to Love, Everyone Needs Someone, Stick With Me Baby, That's Just Too Much, Donna Donna, Sigh Cry Almost Die, Love Hurts, Lucille. Cold Cold Heart (2 takes); Silent Treatment. Farinacci, trumpet, with an unidentified band. Produced by Jason Miles. A radio broadcast from RTB radio, Belgium, hosted by Benoit J. Quersin, on the 12-day cultural festival, held in Algiers, Algeria. Quersin plays music excerpts from the festival. The insert file holds a letter from Quersin that accompanied the tape, sent to Roger Sherman, program director of WQXR, and a letter from Sherman, who forwarded the tape, to Avakian. A benefit for the American Heart Association honoring Ella Fitzgerald, held at Avery Fisher Hall in New York City. With Ray Brown, Stan Getz, Phil Woods, David Sanborn, Louie Bellson, Jimmy Heath, Herb Ellis, Clark Terry, Jon Faddis, Joe Wilder, Bobby McFerrin, Itzhak Perlman, Benny Carter, the Manhattan Transfer, Tommy Flanagan, George Shearing, Joe Williams, James Moody, Slide Hampton, Red Rodney, Clark Terry, Oscar Peterson, Dizzy Gillespie, and Ella Fitzgerald. Track 1: A Tisket A Tasket (Ray Brown); How High the Moon (band); Benny Carter remarks; All Heart (Manhattan Transfer); Lulu's Back in Town (George Shearing); Blues in My Heart (Joe Williams and George Shearing); Blue Skies (Bobby McFerrin and Itzhak Perlman). Track 2: First Lady (Benny Carter and band); Mr. Paganini (Tommy Flanagan trio with Bobby Durham); Stompin' at the Savoy (Tommy Flanagan trio with Red Rodney, Slide Hampton, Stan Getz, James Moody, and Phil Woods);, You Showed Me the Way (Joe Williams). Track 1: Lena Horne speaks; Crazy People (vocal trio with Lena Horne); It's You; unidentified (Oscar Peterson); Summertime (Itzhak Perlman and Oscar Peterson); I Waited for You (Dizzy Gillespie and Oscar Peterson); unidentified (full band, start). Track 2: Unidentified (full band, conclusion); Honeysuckle Rose (Ella Fitzgerald with band); Ella Fitzgerald speaks; Lady Be Good (Ella Fitzgerald, Clark Terry, and Joe Williams with band). Recorded at Max's Kansas City by Marc Laub. Second set only. A song demo. Music by Conal Fowkes and Eddy Davis, lyric by Bob Cook. Vocal, piano, and bass by Conal Fowkes, banjo by Eddy Davis. Engineered by Tony Mastellone. What Can I Say Dear After I Say I'm Sorry (May 11 and May 10), Oh Baby (May 11), I Need Some Pettin' (May 18), Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams (fragment), One O'clock Jump, I Got Rhythm, I Ain't Gonna Give Nobody None of My Jelly Roll, Ja-da. Bud Freeman, tenor saxophone; Pee Wee Russell, clarinet; Max Kaminsky, trumpet; Eddie Condon, guitar; Dave Bowman, piano; Clyde Lombardi, bass; Johnny Blowers, drums. NBC radio broadcast from the Panther Room of the Hotel Sherman, Chicago. Wrap Your Troubles In Dreams, Unidentified violinist (possibly Anahid Ajemian) and pianist, in an undated performance. The sonata is on track 1. Track 2 contains a recording session for the Gateway Singers for the Galison, harmonica, with Toninho Horta, guitar, live in Moscow. Two versions. Track 1: October 24, 1992. Track 2: October 25, 1992. The second version is unnisued. The first was released on It's All Right With Me, unidentified, Theme to Black Orpheus, Don't Get Around Much Anymore, Cherokee, Loverman, unidentified, unidentified, Stardust, Billie's Bounce. Garanian, alto saxophone. No other musicians are identified. See also Mathis, Johnny; and a 1992 radio discussion of Garner's career, under Interviews with Avakian. Soliloquy and You'd Be So Nice To Come Home To. The sound quality is superior to released versions. Garner plays harpsichord on all selections. Multiple takes. All titles have multiple takes. Track 1: Siuzhet 11 (sextet, 1988). Track 2: Siuzhet 17 (quintet, 1989). Gevorgyan, piano. Titles translated from Russian. See the insert file for personnel and other information (in Russian). Afro Cuban Drum Suite, Hot House, Lover Man, Oo-Pah Pa-Dah, Tocatta for Trumpet, Cool Breeze, I Can't Get Started, Relaxin' at Camarillo, Yesterdays, One Bass Hit. Unknown location, never released. All selections are incomplete and fade out early. Gillespie, trumpet and congas, with Ed Cherry, guitar; Michael Howell, bass; and Tommy Campbell, drums. Unidentified, band introduction, Theme from Black Orpheus, St. Louis Blues, A Night in Tunisia, unidentified blues, unidentified (Ed Cherry feature), Tin Tin Deo. Unidentified, A Night in Tunisia, St. Louis Blues, unidentified blues, Salt Peanuts, Tin Tin Deo. Stella By Starlight (two versions). Track 1: October 22, 1992. Track 2: October 23, 1992. Recorded during the production of the See also interviews with Goodman shortly before and after the 1962 tour of the Soviet Union, under Interviews; and rehearsals in part 2 of the interview with Vincent Liebler, under Interviews. Radio broadcasts. Swingtime in the Rockies, Body and Soul, Peckin', Sing Sing Sing, Don't Be That Way, Always, Sweet Sue, Lullaby in Rhythm, The World is Waiting for the Sunrise, Serenade to the Stars, Tip Pi Tin. Don't Be That Way, Sometimes I'm Happy, One O'Clock Jump, Sensation Rag, I'm Coming Virginia, When My Baby Smiles at Me, Shine, Blue Reverie, Life Goes to a Party. Honeysuckle Rose, Body and Soul, Avalon, The Man I Love. I Got Rhythm, Blue Skies, Loch Lomond, Blue Room, Swingtime in the Rockies, Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen, China Boy. Stompin' at the Savoy, Dizzy Spells, Sing Sing Sing, If Dreams Come True, Big John Special. Restored by Ted Kendal from Avakian's Fairchild tape. Don't Be That Way, One O'Clock Jump, Sensation Rag, I'm Coming Virginia, When My Baby Smiles at Me, Shine, Blue Reverie, Life Goes to a Party, Honeysuckle Rose, Body and Soul, Avalon, The Man I Love. I Got Rhythm, Blue Skies, Loch Lomond, Blue Room, Swingtime in the Rockies, Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen, China Boy, Stompin' at the Savoy, Dizzy Spells, Sing Sing Sing, Big John Special. This version, which includes the Goodman spoken introduction on the original Columbia release of the concert, has the best sound quality of the three sources in the Avakian collection. Track 1: Don't Be That Way, Sometimes I'm Happy, One O'Clock Jump, Sensation Rag, I'm Coming Virginia, When My Baby Smiles at Me, Shine, Blue Reverie, Life Goes to a Party, Honeysuckle Rose, Body and Soul, Avalon, The Man I Love, I Got Rhythm. Track 2: Blue Skies, Loch Lomond, Blue Room, Swingtime in the Rockies, Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen, China Boy, Stompin' at the Savoy, Dizzy Spells, Sing Sing Sing, If Dreams Come True, Big John Special. A set of excerpts. Each excerpt is played twice, from different sources for the Carnegie Hall concert, to demonstrate the differences in sound quality. Sing Sing Sing (Jess Stacy piano solo), One O'Clock Jump, I Got Rhythm, The Man I Love, Sing Sing Sing (beginning). Don't Be That Way, Sunrise Serenade, T'ain't What You Do, Bach Goes to Town, One O'Clock Jump. Trio of Goodman, Fletcher Henderson, and Lionel Hampton: The Sheik of Araby. Sextet adds Charlie Christian, Artie Bernstein, and Nick Fatool: Flying Home, Stardust. Full band: Sing Sing Sing. The date is an estimate, as Charlie Shavers is performing, and he joined the Goodman band in 1954. The second tape from the concert was missing from the collection. Personnel announcement. Let's Dance, Down South Camp Meeting, Blue Room, Sometimes I'm Happy, Sugarfoot Stomp, Don't Be That Way, What Can I Say After I Say I'm Sorry. China Boy, Memories of You, Nice Work If You Can Get It, The World Is Waiting For The Sunrise, Glory of Love, Darktown Strutters Ball, Wolverine Blues, Keep Smiling At Trouble. Blue Skies, Girl Noise/So Long, Dixieland Band, Tables, I Would Do Anything For You. Sing Sing Sing, One O'Clock Jump, Goodbye. Goodman, clarinet, with Urbie Green, trombone; Ruby Braff, trumpet; Paul Quinichette, tenor saxophone; Teddy Wilson, piano; Milt Hinton, bass; and Bobby Donaldson, drums. After You've Gone (trio), Nice Work If You Can Get It (trio), Runnin' Wild (trio), Stairway to the Stars (Urbie Green feature), Avalon, If You Were Mine (Ruby Braff feature), Honeysuckle Rose, Unidentified, Seven Come Eleven, Body and Soul, I've Found A New Baby, Don't Be That Way, Blue and Sentimental (Paul Quinichette feature), Slipped Disc. Sing Sing Sing, Stompin' at the Savoy, Theme, Lady Be Good, Memories of You, One O'Clock Jump, On the Alamo, Airmail Special, I Can't Get Started, Avalon, Shine, Flying Home, Rose Room, Deed I Do. See the insert file for more information. Theme, As Long As I Live, Mean to Me, Just One of Those Things, Slipped Disc, Night and Day, Rosetta, Honeysuckle Rose, Goodbye, Theme, After You've Gone, Nice Work If You Can Get It, Running Wild, Stairway to the Stars, Avalon, Mean to Me, Rachel's Dream. If I Had You, Seven Come Eleven, Theme, Body and Soul, I Found a New Baby, Don't Be That Way, Sing Sing Sing, One O'Clock Jump, Theme, Honeysuckle Rose, On the Sunny Side of the Street, Air Mail Special. As Long As I Live, Flying Home, Theme, Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea, Just One of Those Things, Stairway To the Stars, Slipped Disc, Stompin' at the Savoy, Memories of You, Shine, Blue and Sentimental, Don't Be That Way, Theme, Seven Come Eleven, Rosetta, Stompin' at the Savoy. See enclosed note in insert file. Goodman, clarinet, with Terry Gibbs, vibraphone; Teddy Wilson or Lou Stein, piano; Mundell Lowe or Allen Hanlon, guitar; Sid Weiss or Eddie Safranski, bass; and Don Lamond or Terry Snyder, drums. I've Got A Feeling I'm Falling (2 takes), Four or Five Times (2 takes), How Am I To Know (3 takes). Multiple takes of each. Audio begins at 00:22:52. Audio goes backward at 00:26:35, and returns to forward at 00:28:17. Avalon, Stompin' at the Savoy, I've Got Rhythm, Blue Skies, Blues. Benny Goodman, clarinet, with Teddy Wilson, piano; Gene Krupa; drums, Lionel Hampton; vibraphone; and, Jimmy Rushing, vocals. Many, but not all, of the tape reels recorded on the Russian tour were given a unique number by Avakian. While some had further description of location or date, many others did not. These reel numbers are listed with the items when present. A small selection of the material recorded in the Soviet Union was issued on the RCA album The band for this tour consisted of Goodman, clarinet, with Jerry Dodgion and Phil Woods, alto saxophones; Zoot Sims and Tommy Newsom, tenor saxophones; Gene Allen, baritone saxophone; Joe Wilder, Jimmy Maxwell, Joe Newman, and John Frosk, trumpets; Jimmy Knepper, Willie Dennis, and Wayne Andre, trombones; John Bunch and Teddy Wilson, piano; Turk Van Lake, guitar; Victor Feldman, vibraphone; Bill Crow, bass; Mel Lewis, drums; and Joya Sherrill, vocals. Track 1: Unidentified, Clarinet a la King, One O'Clock Jump, Everything I Love (Joya Sherrill vocal), Ridin' High (Joya Sherrill vocal), We Meet and the Angels Sing (Joya Sherrill vocal), Have I Got a Right to Sing the Blues, Jumping at the Woodside, Love for Sale, Too Blue (Victor Feldman feature), Medley illustrating jazz history: New Orleans pre-and post-funeral march/Didn't He Ramble. Track 2: Medley illustrating jazz history: Muskrat Ramble/Whispering/Mood Indigo, Let's Dance, The Bulgar, Meet the Band, Bye Bye Blackbird, Joya Sherrill features: Show Me, The Thrill Is Gone, Gerswhin medley: Who Cares/Summertime/Nice Work If You Can Get It/Fascinating Rhythm, I'm Beginning to See the Light. Band: King Porter Stomp. Track 1: Medley illustrating jazz history - One O'clock Jump/Marie/Sunrise Serenade/Billie's Bounce/Take Five; Sing Sing Sing; We Meet and the Angels Sing (Joya Sherrill feature); Salute to Glenn Miller: Moonlight Serenade/unidentified/I Know Why and So Do You/Chattanooga Choo Choo; Let's Dance; The Bulgar; Bach Goes to Town. Track 2: String of Pearls, unidentified. The rest of the tape has material from the Tbilisi performances, which can be heard with better sound quality on the recordings from June 12th and June 13th. Mono recording. Joya Sherrill features: I'm Beginning to See the Light, Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea. Band: Feathers (by John Bunch), Early Autumn, Tbilisi Stomp (The Bulgar), Goodbye. Joya Sherrill features: I'm Beginning To See the Light, Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea. Band: Bye Bye Blackbird, Feathers, Early Autumn, Tbilisi Stomp (The Bulgar), Goodbye. Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band, Willow Weep for Me (Joe Wilder feature), Titter Pipes. Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band, Titter Pipes, I Got It Bad and That Ain't Good (Joe Wilder feature). The first half of the concert was not recorded. Second half: Greetings to Leningrad, Bach Goes To Town. Band with Joya Sherrill: The Thrill Is Gone, Who Cares, Summertime, Fascinating Rhthym, I'm Beginning to See the Light (incomplete). Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band, Titter Pipes, I Got It Bad and That Ain't Good, Bach Goes to Town. The undated tape box noted this as "The night that Zoot got drunk." Band with Joya Sherrill: Fascinating Rhythm (beginning cut off), The Man I Love, Katiusha, I'm Beginning to See the Light. Band: But Not For Me. Teddy Wilson trio: Shiny Stockings, Love. Quintet Medley: Avalon, Body and Soul, Rose Room, The World Is Waiting for the Sunrise. St. Louis Blues (Joya Sherrill), Swift as the Wind (arranged by Tadd Dameron). Teddy Wilson Trio: Stompin' at the Savoy, Love, Satin Doll, Undecided. Full band: One O'clock Jump. Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band, I Can't Get Started (Phil Woods feature), In a Mellow Tone. Victor Feldman feature: Too Blue, Dottie (end is cut off). Full band with Joya Sherrill: The Man I Love, Katyusha, I'm Beginning to See the Light. Band: Feathers. Teddy Wilson Trio: Love, Shiny Stockings. Trio with Goodman: Sweet Lorraine. Muskrat Ramble, Goodbye (last performance), One O'Clock Jump (2 versions), Titter Pipes, Bugle Call Rag, Let's Dance (2 versions). Joya Sherrill features: I'm Beginning to See the Light. Jam session: Honeysuckle Rose. Medley illustrating jazz history: New Orleans pre-and post-funeral march/Muskrat Ramble/Whispering/Mood Indigo/One O'clock Jump/Marie/Sunrise Serenade/Billie's Bounce/Take Five. King Porter Stomp (beginning). King Porter Stomp (conclusion), Medley: Moonlight Serenade/unidentified/I Know Why (And So Do You)/Chattanooga Choo Choo, On A Misty Night, Goodbye. One O'clock Jump, King Porter Stomp. Joya Sherrill features: The Thrill is Gone. Medley: Who Cares/Summertime/Fascinating Rhythm, I'm Beginning to See the Light, Let There Be Love. Band: Love For Sale. Medley: Moonlight Serenade/unidentified/I Know Why (And So Do You)/Chattanooga Choo Choo. Jam session: I Found A New Baby. Band: Goodbye. Teddy Wilson Trio: Stompin' at the Savoy, I Got Rhythm. Full Band: Take the A Train (jam session), Goodbye. Teddy Wilson trio: Shiny Stockings, Love, Basin Street Blues. Full Band: One O'Clock Jump, Muskrat Ramble. This is a monophonic recording done for the local camera crew. Lullaby of Birdland, Muskrat Ramble, Midnight in Moscow, Sing Sing Sing (incomplete). Band with Joya Sherrill: The Man I Love, Katiusha, Beginning to See the Light. Teddy Wilson trio: Stompin' at the Savoy, Love, Satin Doll. St. Louis Blues, Bach Goes to Town, One O'Clock Jump, Stealin' Apples. Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band (composed by Bob Prince). Joya Sherrill features: Ridin' High, The Thrill is Gone, Medley: Who Cares/Summertime/Fascinating Rhythm. Band: Swift as the Wind. Sextet medley: Avalon/Body and Soul/Rose Room/China Boy. Full band: One O'clock Jump. Meadowland, Bye Bye Blackbird, Titter Pipes (composed by Tommy Newsom). Joya Sherrill features: Show Me, Katiusha, Let There Be Love. The last three minutes of the tape are of an unidentified pianist in a backstage area or rehearsal room, playing Thelonious Monk's Ruby My Dear. Sextet medley: Avalon/Body and Soul/Rose Room/China Boy. Band: One O'Clock Jump. Meadowland, Bach Goes to Town. Joya Sherrill features: Show Me, Katiusha (twice). I Got It Bad and That Ain't Good (Joe Wilder feature). Titter Pipes. Medley illustrating jazz history: New Orleans pre-and post-funeral march/Muskrat Ramble/Whispering/Mood Indigo/One O'clock Jump/Marie/Sunrise Serenade/Billie's Bounce/Take Five. King Porter Stomp. Start of concert: Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band, I Can't Get Started (Joe Wilder feature), Titter Pipes. Small group jam session: The Midgets, The Man I Love, Back Home Again in Indiana, Sweet Georgia Brown, unidentified. One O'clock Jump, King Porter Stomp. Joya Sherrill features: The Thrill is Gone. Medley: Who Cares/Summertime/Fascinating Rhythm, I'm Beginning to See the Light, Let There Be Love. Jam session: Honeysuckle Rose, Lullaby of Birdland, Goodbye. Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band, I Can't Get Started (Joe Wilder feature), Titter Pipes. Small group jam session: The Midgets (by Joe Newman), The Man I Love, Sweet Georgia Brown. Jumpin' at the Woodside. Medley illustrating jazz history: New Orleans pre-and post-funeral march/Muskrat Ramble/One O'clock Jump/Marie/Sunrise Serenade/Billie's Bounce/Take the A Train. Joya Sherrill features: The Thrill Is Gone. Medley: Who Cares/Summertime, Fascinating Rhythm. Small group jam session: Just You Just Me. Band: One O'clock Jump. Medley illustrating jazz history: New Orleans post-funeral march/Muskrat Ramble/One O'clock Jump/Marie/Sunrise Serenade/Billie's Bounce/Take Five/Take the A Train. Titter Pipes. Small group jam session: The Midgets, unidentified, Caravan. Joya Sherrill features: The Thrill is Gone. Medley: Who Cares/Summertime/Fascinating Rhythm, I'm Beginning to See the Light, Ridin' High. Band: Bye Bye Blackbird. Why You, Until the Real Thing Comes Along, St. Louis Blues, I Would Do Anything For You, unidentified (possible Eddie Sauter arrangement, at 27:30). Small group jam session: The Midgets, The Man I Love, Caravan. Unidentified, Sugar Foot Stomp. Joya Sherrill features: The Thrill is Gone, Who Cares, Summertime, Fascinating Rhythm, I'm Beginning to See the Light, Ridin' High. Wrapping It Up, When Buddha Smiles, I Would Do Anything for You. Love Me or Leave Me (Lullaby of Birdland), One O'Clock Jump, Goodbye, Take the A Train. The Midgets, The Man I Love, Back Home Again in Indiana, Lady Be Good. Some of these may also be edited from various versions. Start of concert: Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band, I Can't Get Started (Joe Wilder feature), Titter Pipes. Why You (several versions), unidentified (possible Tommy Newsom arrangement, at 20:26), Blue Skies, A Smooth One. See also insert file. Small group: That's a Plenty (two versions), When the Saints Go Marching In, Muskrat Ramble (several versions). See also insert file. Stealin' Apples (four versions), King Porter Stomp (one complete version and splice take). See also insert file. Meet the Band, Titter Pipes, Meet the Band (three versions), Titter Pipes. See also insert file. Titter Pipes (three versions), Meet the Band, Titter Pipes, Meet the Band, Titter Pipes, Meadowland. See also insert file. Bugle Call Rag, Meet the Band (four versions). See also insert file. One O'Clock Jump, Caravan, One O'Clock Jump, Take the A Train. Sing Sing Sing (2 versions). Meet the Band, Swift As the Wind (2 versions), Early Autumn, Mission to Moscow, You Took Advantage of Me, Blue Skies, But Not For Me. The Midgets (3 versions), One O'Clock Jump. The Midgets, The Man I Love, Caravan, One O'Clock Jump, The Midgets. Take the A Train (3 versions). See the insert file for more information. Until the Real Thing Comes Along (2 versions), Wolverine Blues (2 versions), On the Alamo, Quintet: Avalon, Body and Soul, Rose Room, China Boy. Bach Goes to Town (2 versions), One O'Clock Jump, Don't Be That Way (3 versions), Bach Goes to Town, Meadowland. Meadowland, Bye Bye Blackbird (2 versions), Meadowland, Bye Bye Blackbird, Tbilisi Stomp (The Bulgar, from reel 25). Don't Be That Way (Moscow), King Porter Stomp (Brussels), Lullaby of Birdland (Moscow), St. Louis Blues (Moscow), Balkan Mixed Grill (Brussels), Honeysuckle Rose (Moscow), Tribute to Glenn Miller (Moscow, with Joya Sherrill), The Man I Love (Moscow), Caravan (Moscow), Bugle Call Rag (Brussels), One O'Clock Jump (Brussels), How High The Moon (Moscow). Katiusha (2 versions). Small combo with Joe Wilder and Zoot Sims: Caravan, The Midgets, The Midgets (Sims solo edited out), Bei Mir Bist du Schoen (twice). Benny Goodman, clarinet, with Teddy Wilson, piano; Lionel Hampton, vibraphone; Gene Krupa, drums. Together, Who Cares, September Song, unidentified, Just One of Those Things, Love Sends a Little Gift of Roses (multiple takes of each). Seven Come Eleven, Say It Ain't So (multiple takes), unidentified. There are long silences between some tracks. Running Wild (rehearsal and takes 1-3), It Had To Be You (rehearsal and takes 1-2). Bernie's Tune (take 3), East of the Sun (takes 1,2), Oh Joy (take 1-4), Bernie's Tune (take 1,2), Gift of Roses (2-5). I've Found A New Baby (rehearsal). I've Found A New Baby (takes 1-6). Seven Come Eleven (takes 1-3), I'll Get By (takes 1-2). But Not For Me (rehearsal and takes 1-3), Somebody Loves Me (rehearsal and takes 1-3). It Had To Be You (take 3), It's All Right With Me (take 1-6). Four Once More (rehearsal and take 1). Four Once More (rehearsal and take 2). Soft Lights and Sweet Music (takes 1-3), Liza (takes 1-2), I Got It Bad and That Ain't Good (take 1), Nice Work If You Can Get It (takes 1-2). From This Moment On (takes 1-2), If Dreams Come True (takes 1-2). Gordon, clarinet; no other personnel are identified. Track 1: Apex Blues; Rosetta; My Melancholy Baby; As Long As I Live; Can't We Talk It Over; Don't Cry, Joe; Someday You'll Be Sorry. Track 2: I Can't Believe That You're In Love With Me; Creole Love Call; Keepin' Out of Mischief Now; You're Driving Me Crazy; If You Were Mine; On the Alamo. Tirade at Audience, Oil of Dog, Another Tirade; Brunnhilde. Unidentified compositions. I've Been Thinking of You All Day (instrumental, then with vocals), This Time I'm Sure, Unidentified, Come With Me, Steal Away, Unidentified, Skies Are Gray, I Love a Lot, Funny How I'm Feeling Tonight, You Have Funny Ways, Light-Hearted Lover, This Time I'm Sure, Anytime I Speak, Come With Me, Steal Away, unidentified, Skies Are Gray. My Heart is Yours Forever, The World is Far Far Away, You Have Funny Ways, She Waits For Me, Wait for the One, I'll Be Near You, Whisper In My Ear, Day Passes By, My Heart is Naming You, Take Me In Your Arms, Take Me In Your Arms (with overdubs), Echo, unidentified (women vocalists, copied from vinyl recording). More Graves: Picnic Song, Steal Away, Funny How I'm Feeling Tonight. The first three songs are Graves accompanied by an orchestra, the rest are guitar/vocal only, some with vocal overdubs. See the insert file, which contains a letter to Warner Brothers producer Cal Lampley from Graves regarding a song he wrote called "The Girl By the Door," and a lead sheet for the song. Bourbon Street Parade, Don't You Leave Me Here, Just a Little While, Wolverine Blues, Ole Miss, None of This Jelly Roll. Recorded off a Al Grey, Ray Anderson, Wycliffe Gordon, and Ryan Porter, trombones; Joe Cohn, guitar; Bill Charlap, piano; Matthew Parrish, bass; Bobby Durham, drums; and Jimmy Slyde, tap dancing. An 8-track recording. An 8-track recording. Set 1: Jack Kleinsinger introduction; Stompin' at the Savoy; Echoes of New Orleans; Memories of You; Star Eyes; My Wish; The Sisyphis Effect; Mood Indigo; Things Ain't What They Used To Be. Set 2: Jack Kleinsinger introduction; Jimmy Slyde remarks and performance; unidentified; I Can't Get Started; Sweet Georgia Brown. Grosz, guitar and vocals, with Peter Ecklund, cornet and whistling; Bobby Gordon, clarinet and vocals; and Bob Haggart, bass and whistling). Track 1: If Dreams Come True; Milenberg Joys; If We Never Meet Again; Truckin'; Sentimental Journey; Smiles. Track 2: I Want A Little Girl; All My Life; Isn't Love the Strangest Thing; Sweet Sue; I'll Be A Friend With Pleasure; Sweet and Lovely. Track 1: Marty Grosz and the Orphan Newsboys: I'm Building Up to an Awful Letdown; Talk of the Town; Rose of the Rio Grande; One in a Million; Lonesome Me; Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen; How Can You Face Me. Yank Lawson band (Lawson, trumpet, with Jackie Coon, flugelhorn and vocals; George Masso, trombone; Abe Most, clarinet; John Bunch, piano; Morty Corb, bass; and Jake Hanna, drums): These Foolish Things/Darn That Dream. Track 2: Willow Weep For Me; Sweet Lorraine; What A Wonderful World; I Can't Give You Anything But Love; Speak Low; I Want To Be Happy; Lazy River; Sometimes I'm Happy; Blues My Naughty Sweetie Gave to Me; Beale Street Blues (partial). On the last two selections: Bob Haggart, bass; Tommy Newsom, tenor saxophone; Bob Havens, trombone; and Marty Grosz, guitar. Jackie Coon, George Masso, and Morty Corb do not play on those selections. Marty Grosz, guitar and vocals; Peter Ecklund, cornet; Bobby Gordon, clarinet; Greg Cohen, bass. The last selection on track 1 is pianist George Winston. Track 1: Smiles; When I Take My Sugar to Tea; You'r Driving Me Crazy; Don't Be That Way; Talk of the Town; Everbody Loves My Baby; Charlie Brown and His All-Stars. Track 2: I Wish I Were Twins; How Can You Face Me?; Sweet Substitute; I'm Building Up to an Awful Letdown; Squeeze Me; Just A Gigolo; I've Got a Feeling I'm Falling. See the insert file for more information. An American Public Radio program, hosted by Richard Sudhalter. Recorded live at the Vineyard Theater, New York City. Track 1: All God's Children Got Rhythm; Take Me to the Land of Jazz; A Hundred Years from Today; I'm Crazy 'Bout My Baby; Sudhalter and Grosz speak; It's A Wonderful World (incomplete). Track 2: Sudhalter recounts a brief history of acoustic jazz guitar; S'Wonderful; A Porter's Love Song to a Chamber Maid (James P. Johnson); The English Blues; Lonesome Me (Fats Waller); Changes (Walter Donaldson);, Swing That Music. Grosz, guitar and vocals, with Dick Meldonian, soprano and tenor saxophones; and Chris Berg, bass. A broadcast of "an examination of the rich musical literature derived from folk sources and the works of outstanding composers of Armenia." A selection of music by various Armenian composers with introductions and background. Chick Safari, Hawk, No Letter Today, Wild Side of Life (multiple takes), Cold Cold Heart, One Has My Name, There's A New Moon Over My Shoulder, Afraid, Bouquet of Roses, This is the Thanks I Get, I Don't Hurt Anymore, Anytime, Singing the Blues, Detour. A 3-track tape with content on both sides, and reversed on the same track. Only content running forward is listed. Tracks 1-3 have almost identical content, except that track 2 has vocal overdubs: Unidentified band - Milorn (takes 1-3), unidentified (takes 1-2), Untitled Waltz (takes 1-7). Track 4: Bill Haley and His Comets- The Wild Side of Life (take 12, with no vocal overdubs, twice), Cold Cold Heart (no vocal overdubs, twice). Track 5: Bill Haley and His Comets- The Wild Side of Life (take 12, with vocal overdubs), Cold Cold Heart (multiple takes and inserts with vocal overdubs). Track 6: Identical to track 4. Hall, vocals, with Ronny Whyte, piano; and Dean Johnson, bass. Track 1: Getting to Know You; Porgy; Old Fashioned Love; When A Woman Loves A Man; I'll Remember April; The Lady Is A Tramp; That Old Feeling; Don't Worry 'Bout Me; Prelude to a Kiss; In My Solitude; Stay Home My Baby; St. Louis Blues. Track 2: The More I See You; Memories of You/The Way We Were; Almost Like Being In Love; I Got It Bad; Diga Diga Doo; The Streets of London (Ralph McTell); Ill Wind; Tenderly; I Can't Give You Anything But Love; Sophisticated Lady; It Don't Mean A Thing; As Time Goes By. A WBGO program hosted by Bill Kirchner, who supplies biographical information and analysis interspersed with recordings of Hall. Track 1: Vard Tsanetsi; Yis Ko Ghimetn Chim Gidi; Yaren Ervadzim; Jaghats Patig Patig; Dartsir Meg Ashe; Kamancha; Achkd Khumar; Yes Mi Gharib. Track 2: Blblili Hid; Serov Matsun; Duy-Duy; Yailavor Yars; Dards Latsek; Sev Moot Ambr; Mdghats Harsner. Recorded for World Pacific in New York sometime after the Music For Moderns concert on which this piece by Fred Katz was performed. Anahid Ajemian, violin; Paul Horn, clarinet; Fred Katz, cello; Jon Pisano, guitar; Carson Smith, bass; Chico Hamilton, drums. Several takes. Everybody Loves You So (takes 1-3), All Blues (takes 1-4), Piquine (take 1), Champs Elysees. Never released. Eric Dolphy, flute and alto saxophone; Nathan Gershman, cello; Dennis Budimir, guitar; Ron Carter, bass; Chico Hamilton, drums. ABC radio broadcast. A demo for a song written by Bruce Levine and Ellyn Harris. Avakian found this commercially-issued recording to be significant in that Harris wrote words for and performed Frankie Trumbauer's solo on Singin' The Blues, perhaps the first example of this practice. Eudice Shapiro, violin, and the Los Angeles Percussion Ensemble, William Kraft, conductor. Preceded by an unidentified piece for percussion. The Concerto recording repeats. David Robert Singers, conducted by Ingolf Dahl. Harrow, vocals, with Clark Terry, trumpet and vocals; Dick Katz, piano; Ray Drummond, bass; and Ben Riley, drums. Track 1: Havin' Myself a Time (takes 1-4), Secrets (takes 1-5), Guess Who's In Town (takes 1-15). Track 2: Guess Who's In Town (takes 16-23), Hit the Road Jack (takes 1-4), Rock It For Me (takes 1-4), So Why Am I Surprised (takes 1-12). Track 1: Skeleton Trees (takes 1-9), Someday Sweetheart (takes 1-3), Sea Change (takes 1-12), I'm Back (takes 1-6). Track 1: Sea Change (takes 7, 11, 12); So Why Am I Surprised (multiple takes and inserts), Pennies From Heaven (takes 1-3). Track 2: Pennies From Heaven (takes 5-13), Guess Who's In Town (takes 1-5). Live at the Hotel McAlpin, New York City. An alternative take of the tune, matrix number 5749-2. The recording includes Louis Armstrong. Avakian acquired the recording from Brad Kay. A tribute to Duke Ellington and Count Basie. Jon Hendricks, Judith Hendricks, Stephanie Nakasian, and Avery Brooks, vocals; David Leonhardt, piano; Murray Wall, bass; and Walter Bolden, drums. The songs are interspersed with narration. Track 1: Unidentified blues; It Don't Mean A Thing; Come Sunday (sung by Avery Brooks); Take the A Train; Caravan; Harlem Air Shaft; Cottontail; One O'Clock Jump; Jumpin' At the Woodside; unidentified; Every Day I Have the Blues. Track 2: In A Mellotone; Royal Garden Blues; Come Sunday; It's Sand, Man; Li'l Darlin'; Whirly Bird; April in Paris; Avenue C; Blues To Be There. A promotional recording for the group's first album. June in January, Jeepers Creepers, She's Funny That Way, Nice Work If You Can Get It, Fools Rush In, Where Are You, Stars Fell on Alabama, I Thought About You, Speak Low, Put Your Dreams Away. All of these tracks were issued on the Starlite label, but were sent to Avakian to demonstrate what sound the group was looking or on their Columbia recordings. A letter from Gene Puerling of the Hi-Lo's to Avakian is in the insert file. See also Prince, Bob. Demo for a television commercial for Benton and Bowles. See the insert file for more information. A KCBS radio program. Music performed live in the broadcast studio is interspersed with conversation between Hines and the program host. Lover Come Back To Me; I Ain't Got Nobody; I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself a Letter; Sleepy Time Gal. This complete version of part 2 does not have as good sound quality as the incomplete version below. The recording has three tracks, but all content is on track 2: Ain't She Sweet; I'm In The Mood For Love; Interview; St. James Infirmary (No Earl Hines. Millie Vernon, vocal, Ruby Braff, Jimmy Raney, Dave McKenna, Wyatt Ruther, Jo Jones ); Liza; (What Can I Say) After I Say I'm Sorry; The Lady Is A Tramp (George Shearing); Who; Say It Isn't So/Beale Street Blues/Lover Come Back To Me; Jeepers Creepers; I Ain't Got Nobody; I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself A Letter;, Sleepy Time Girl. This version has better sound quality than n the complete version above. Ain't She Sweet; I'm In The Mood For Love; Interview; St. James Infirmary (No Earl Hines. Millie Vernon, vocal, Ruby Braff, Jimmy Raney, Dave McKenna, Wyatt Ruther, Jo Jones); Liza; (What Can I Say) After I Say I'm Sorry; The Lady Is A Tramp (George Shearing); Who; Say It Isn't So/Beale Street Blues/Lover Come Back To Me; Jeepers Creepers; I Ain't Got Nobody; I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself A Letter;, Sleepy Time Girl. Unidentified (with unidentified bassist and drummer), My Ship (two takes, one solo piano with Hines vocal, one with piano, bass and drums and no vocal), unidentified, On the Sunny Side of the Street. Track 1: After You've Gone, unidentified, unidentified. Track 2: Unidentified, Pretty Baby, I'll See You In My Dreams. Two unidentified selections. A trumpeter and band leader. Flight of the Bumblebee, unidentified, Ballad from You Better Go Now, Them There Eyes, Nice Work if You Can Get It, God Bless the Child, Please Don't Talk About Me When I'm Gone, Don't Explain. The first two tracks are with Ray Ellis's orchestra, recorded for Columbia. The remainder are Holiday with an unidentified piano trio in live performance. Live performance in the United States. Horta, guitar and vocals, with an unidentified band. Track 1: No Carnaval, followed by four unidentified selections. Track 2: Unidentified, unidentified, All of Those Things. Multiple takes of material. Track 1: Unidentified titles. Track 2: Bebop, What Are You Doing the Rest of Your Life, Chem Grna Khagha, Day Dream. Takes and inserts. Track 1: I Ain't Got Nothin' But the Blues, unidentified, Bebop. Track 2: Bebop, Fascinating Rhythm. A 24-track recording. Gaka Vik, Rivers of Mough, Er Vo Om Em. Multiple takes of all. See the insert file for recording notes. A 24-track recording. Rivers of Mough (3 takes), Daydream, Daydream (2 takes), Beachhaven (1 take). A 24-track recording. What Are You Doing the Rest of Your Life, Four Brothers, Mood Indigo (2 takes of each). See insert file for recording notes. A 24-track recording. Ain't Got Nothing But the Blues, Sophisticated Lady, Hou Arek. Multiple takes. A 24-track recording. Be Bop, Yarimo. Multiple takes. See the insert file for recording notes. A 24-track recording. Yarimo, Fascinating Rhythm. See insert file for recording notes. A 24-track recording. Shalakho, Makatz Harsner. See insert file for recording notes. A 24-track recording. Anzrevner Egan, Chem Grna Khagha, Er Voom Em. See the insert file for recording notes. A 24-track recording. Seasons Change, Ari Indz, Yerginkn Ambele. multiple takes. See insert file for recording notes. Shalakho (2 mixes); Mokats Harsner (Intro-Piano Solo; Piano solo-end); Andzrevn Ekau; Chem Grna Khagha (master mix and two versions of insert tag); Ervoom Em; Ari Indz Angach Gal; Yerginkn Ambele (mix and insert); Seasons Change (2 takes of insert intro and 2 full takes); What Are You Doing the Rest of Your Life (2 takes); Mood Indigo; Sophisticated Lady (takes 2 and 3 and sax solo); Smokin' Drinkin'. Yarimo; Yerginkin Ambele; Ari Indz; Mokats Harsner; Shalakho; Andzrevn Ekan; Chemgrna Khagha; Ervoom Em; Hov Arek; Gkavik; Es Gisher Loosniah; Alagiaz. Yerginkin Ambele; Chem Grna Khagha; Andzrevn Yekav; Yarimo; Shalakho; Ari Indz Angach Gal; Hov Arek; Gakavik. See the insert file for more details. Nothing But the Blues, Beach Haven, Bebop, Fascinating Rhythm, Yarimo, Hov Arek, Gakavik, Day Dream. See the insert file for details. Two tracks. Fascinating Rhythm, Bebop, What Are You Doing the Rest of Your Life? (Michel Legrand), Daydream, I Ain't Got Nothing But the Blues (Duke Ellington), Mood Indigo, Season's Change (Armen Donelian), Beach Haven (Armen Donelian). Hovenasian with Claudio Roditi, trumpet; Armen Donelian, piano; David Finck, bass; Portinho, drums; Paquito D'Rivera, alto saxophone; Ben Riley, drums; Frank Wess, tenor saxophone; Alex Foster, soprano saxophone; Tom Chapin, flute. See the insert file for more details. Set 1: Announcement, Recorda-Me (piano trio), unidentified (piano trio), Fascinating Rhythm, Ain't Got Nothing But the Blues, Yerginkn Ambele, Chem Grna Khagha, Shalakho, Andzrevn Yekav. Set 2: Beach Haven (piano trio), Theme to Black Orpheus (piano trio), Love Is Here To Stay. Hovenasian, vocals, with Armen Donelian, piano; Joe Fitzgerald, bass; and Portinho, drums. Set 2, continued: What Are You Doing the Rest of Your Life, unidentified, unidentified, Yarimo, unidentified, unidentified. Track 1: Hovenasian with various unidentified musicians. Donna Lee (Charlie Parker); Our Love Is Here To Stay; A Child Is Born; A Foggy Day; Jazz 'n Samba; Someone To Watch Over Me; Here's That Rainy Day. Track 2: Unidentified female vocalist (not Hovenasian), unidentified titles in a pop style, possibly singing in Armenian. Unidentified titles and personnel. An unidentified man speaking in Armenian about Datevik Hovenasian. Mogens Ellegaard, accordion, with the Danish State Radio Orchestra. Premiere performance(incomplete). A very static-filled WNYC radio broadcast. Followed by a room recording of a radio program on the history of jazz, then by an unidentified solo piano work. Followed by a partial radio broadcast of a baseball game between the New York Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers. Unidentified orchestra. The tape box was marked "original." Possibly from the premiere performance at Carnegie Hall, on the same concert at which For piano and string orchestra. Maro Ajemian, piano. A note on the tape box from Avakian states "I am sure this is the transfer from master discs on the 1946 (or 1947?) 78-RPM session with Alan conducting." Broadcast on KPFA, Berkeley, California. Performed by Yehudi Menuhin and Benjamin Britten. BBC Transcription service recording. Followed by a rehearsal of Lexington Choral Society with Symphony Orchestra, Allen C. Lannom, conductor. Ruth Lakeway (soprano), Rosalind Hupp (contralto), C. Ray Bryan (tenor), Robert Patterson (bass). Cary Hall, Lexington, Massachussetts. See the insert file for the concert program. A piece for solo piano, followed by Unidentified ensemble. A WNYC radio broadcast of the Orchestra of America, conducted by Richard Korn at Carnegie Hall. Unidentified ensemble. A transfer from a disc recording produced by Voice of America. A program and movement timings are in the insert file. The end of Symphony No. 9 is followed by An incomplete recording, orchestra unidentified.. Unknown orchestra and performance. Unidentified ensemble and chorus. Live performance. A copy of a disc recording. Followed at 00:10:00 by a recording session for Turk Murphy: "My Honey's Lovin' Arms" take 2. Alan Hovhaness conducting. For organ and percussion. The original tape was labeled "Alan Hovhaness" but may not contain his music. Taped to promote Hunter's Warner Brothers album This project encompassed a concert at the 92nd Street Y Jazz in July series, curated by Hyman; and a recording session the following day with the same musicians, performing music associated with Frank Teschemacher and the Chicago musicians known as the Austin High Gang. Avakian produced the recording, which remained unissued in his lifetime. It was finally released in 2023 under the title The personnel for both the performance and the recording were Dick Hyman, leader, arranger, and piano; Peter Ecklund and Dick Sudhalter, cornet; Jon-Erik Kellso, trumpet and mellophone; Dan Barrett, trombone); Kenny Davern and Dan Levinson, clarinet; Ken Peplowski, tenor saxophone; Marty Grosz and Howard Alden, banjo and guitar; Vince Giordano, tuba and bass saxophone; Bob Haggart and Milt Hinton, bass; and Tony DeNicola and Arnie Kinsella, drums. The first three parts contain the entire concert, including commentary from Dick Hyman, Dick Sudhalter, and Milt Hinton. The music only, in better sound quality, is on part 4. Track 1: Kenny Davern's Windy City Stompers -- Davern, clarinet; Jon-Erik Kellso, trumpet; Dan Barrett, trombone; Dick Hyman, piano; Howard Alden, guitar and banjo; Milt Hinton, bass; Tony DeNicola, drums. Dick Hyman remarks,; The Jazz Me Blues, Baby Won't You Please Come Home, Nobody's Sweetheart, Wabash Blues, unidentified (beginning). Track 2: Unidentified (almost complete version). Frank Teschemacher Celebration Orchestra: Peter Ecklund and Richard Sudhalter, cornet; Jon-Erik Kellso, mellophone; Dan Barrett, trombone; Dan Levinson, clarinet; Ken Peplowksi, tenor saxophone; Dick Hyman, piano; Marty Grosz, banjo; Bob Haggart, bass; Vince Giordano, tuba; Arnie Kinsella, drums. Dick Hyman and Dick Sudhalter remarks; Sugar (That Sugar Baby o'Mine); China Boy; Liza; I've Found A New Baby. Sudhalter discussion with Milt Hinton (incomplete). I've Found A New Baby, Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble, Farewell Blues (both Davern and Hyman bands). Track 1: Dick Sudhalter discussion with Milt Hinton (complete version); Shim-Me-She-Wabble; Sudhalter remarks; One Step To Heaven; Farewell Blues (both the Davern and Hyman bands). The sound quality of this source is superior to the three previous tapes, but contains only the music. The Jazz Me Blues; Baby Won't You Please Come Home; Nobody's Sweetheart; Wabash Blues; unidentified; Sugar (That Sugar Baby o'Mine); China Boy; Liza; I've Found A New Baby; Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble; One Step To Heaven; Farewell Blues. Recording and a first round of mixing were finished in 1992. In 2000, Avakian hired Malcolm Addey to engineer further mixes and edits, and produce a master. In 2002, another master was produced. These are 24-track recordings. A 24-track recording. Sugar, China Boy, Liza. I've Found A New Baby, Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble, One Step to Heaven. See the insert file for recording notes. One Step to Heaven, Farewell Blues, Darktown Strutters Ball. See the insert file for recording notes. Track 1: Frank Teschemacher Celebration Orchestra -- Sugar, China Boy, Liza, I've Found a New Baby, Shim-Me-Sha-Wobble. Track 2: Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble, One Step to Heaven, Farewell Blues (combined Hyman and Davern bands). Some tracks have multiple takes. Frank Teschemacher Celebration Orchestra -- Sugar, China Boy, Liza, I've Found a New Baby, Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble. Track 1: Sugar, China Boy (2 takes), Liza, I've Found A New Baby (3 takes), Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble, Farewell Blues, The Darktown Strutters' Ball (2 takes, second is split between track 1 and track 2). Track 2: The Darktown Strutters' Ball (conclusion). Wolverine Blues; Wabash Blues; Back Home Again In Indiana; Nobody's Sweetheart. Multiple takes of the first three tunes. Nobody's Sweetheart; Jazz Me Blues; Back Home Again In Indiana; Jazz Me Blues. All with multiple takes except for Indiana. Track 1: Farewell Blues (2 takes); The Darktown Strutters' Ball (2 takes); Baby Won't You Please Come Home; Wolverine Blues (start). Track 2: Wolverine Blues (conclusion and 3 more takes), Wabash Blues (2 takes), Back Home Again In Indiana (2 takes). Track 1: Sugar; Liza; I've Found a New Baby; Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble (2 takes); One Step to Heaven. Track 2: Nobody's Sweetheart. Excerpts of rough mixes. Farewell Blues; The Darktown Strutters' Ball (2 takes). Sugar, China Boy (2 takes); Liza; I've Found A New Baby (3 takes); Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble; Farewell Blues. Mixes of various takes of the material, as well as inserts and edits. Sugar, China Boy, Lisa, I've Found A New Baby. See the insert file for mixing notes. I've Found A New Baby; One Step To Heaven; Darktown Strutters Ball. See the insert file for mixing notes. Wolverine Blues, Wabash Blues. See the insert file for mixing notes. Jazz Me Blues; I've Found A New Baby. Farewell Blues (3 takes). See the insert file for mixing and editing notes. Sugar, China Boy, Lisa, I've Found a New Baby, Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble, One Step to Heaven, Darktown Strutters Ball. Baby Won't You Please Come Home, Jazz Me Blues, Wolverine Blues, Nobody's Sweetheart, Indiana, Wabash Blues. See the insert file for more information. This master does not include the last tune, Farewell Blues. Farewell Blues (mix 36 of take 26, mix 37 of take 25, and mix 38 of take 25). Good Old Days in New Orleans. A live performance. Contains the entire released album, followed by a Dave Brubeck recording session, followed by recording session of small group with an unidentifed trumpeter. A rough recording of an informal performance, interspersed with a radio broadcast. Mort Sahl (begins at 00:06:00); Lefty Frizzell (00:23:28); Gene Autry (00:30:30); Mahalia Jackson (00:44:30): I'm Going Down To The River, unidentified, Didn't It Rain); The Rampart Street Paraders. A KAVR radio broadcast in Apple Valley. Interviews with conference attendees: Paul Weston, Liberace, Mitch Miller, and George Avakian. The interviews are interspersed with music. Unidentified, Sugar, Hindustan, When the Saints Go Marching In. Mahalia Jackson, vocals; Clyde Hurley, trumpet; Abe Lincoln, trombone; Matty Matlock, clarinet; Stan Wrightsman, piano; Phil Stephens, bass; Nick Fatool, drums. Recorded for Verve Records, never released. Jackson with with Mildred Falls, piano, and Dickie Mitchell, organ. Asked the Lord, Woman at the Well, Didn't It Rain, I'm Going to Live the Life, When the Saints Go Marchin' In, Trouble in the World. Trouble in the World (ending), Keep Your Hand on the Plow, It Don't Cost Very Much, Move On Up a Little Higher, You'll Never Walk Alone, In the Upper Room, Rusty Old Halo, Summertime, His Eye Is On The Sparrow. This version sounds slightly better than source one. Track 1: Recording session for music for string quartet and piano. Track 2: Soundtrack to the CBS He is Only a Prayer Away, Woman at the Well, Didn't It Rain, I'm Gonna Live the Life I Sing About in My Song, When the Saints Go Marching In, Trouble in this World, Hold On. Hold On, It Don't Cost Very Much, Move on Up a Little Higher, You'll Never Walk Alone, In the Upper Room, Rusty Old Halo, Summertime/Sometimes I Feel LIke A Motherless Child, His Eye is on the Sparrow. A short recording of spoken asides in a recording studio. Most of these selections are incomplete excerpts. Track 1: Excerpts from Harrah's Tahoe, Lake Tahoe, Nevada, April 1965, with Buddy Rich on drums: Unidentified, Don't Be That Way, Shiny Stockings, Tuxedo Junction, Danny Boy, Green Onions, A Lot of Livin' to Do (Jean Turner, vocal), Squeeze Me, One O'Clock Jump, Two O'Clock Jump, unidentified. Track 2: Excerpts from WTAX broadcast, St. Nicholas Hotel, Springfield, Illinois, 1969, with Sonny Payne on drums: Unidentified, Don't Be That Way, Make the World Go Away (there is a gap in the recording shortly after the start of this tune), James interview, That's Life (Ernie Andrews, vocal), On A Clear Day, Say It Isn't So Joan O'Brien, vocal), Rockin' In Rhythm. Excerpts from the Monterey Jazz Festival, September 1965, with Buddy Rich: Shiny Stockings, Sophisticated Lady, The Jazz Connoisseur, Too Close For Comfort (Ernie Andrews, vocal), Ten Years of Tears (Ernie Andrews, vocal), Willow Weep for Me, unidentified, unidentified, Sunday Morning, Big City (Ernie Andrews, vocal), More Than You Know (Ernie Andrews, vocal), unidentified. See also the ceremony at which Jarrett received the Polar Music Prize, in Video Recordings. Music and lyrics by Jarrett, performed by Jarrett. Published by Kundalini Music. Behind You, Lonely Crow Creature of Woe, In Your Quiet Place, There Is a Road, Memories of Tomorrow, Times Are Sad, Maybe, The Magician In You, Everybody Knows, The River Flows On. Long Time Gone, Everything I Love, Margot, Long Time Gone (take 2), Everything I Love (take 2), Margot (take 3). Bassist and drummer are unidentified. See the insert file for recording data. Lately (8 takes), Insert (2 takes), In a Land Not Far Away (intro 2 takes, main body 3 takes). Scott Jarrett, guitar; Keith Jarrett, vocals. See the insert file for recording data. There Is So Much, A Love Like You. See the insert file for recording data. And the River Flows On, A Love Like You, I Love You More, Hang On, Lately, All the Frowning People. Scott Jarrett, guitar and vocal; Keith Jarrett, piano and keyboards. Possibly other musicians. I'm So Glad I Fell In Love With You, There is So Much, Spring, All the Frowning People, Times are Sad Maybe, In a Land Not Far Away. Scott Jarrett, guitar; Keith Jarrett, vocals, piano and keyboards, drums. Jarrett, piano and soprano saxophone, with Charlie Haden, bass, and Paul Motian, drums. These are the complete recordings from which the A Moment for Tears (released on the New Rag (released on the August 30th, set 3, continued: My Back Pages, Soprano, Could I Be You. August 31st, set 1: Unidentified. Soprano, It's So Peaceful in the Country/Who Can I Turn To Now, Pout's Over and the Day's Not Through, A Moment For Tears. Set 1 continued - Could It Be You, Old Rag, My Back Pages. Set 2: My Back Pages (released on the Set 2 continued: Recorder Piece, Dedicated to You (released on the Dedicated to You, Recorder Solo, Somebody Loves Me, Unidentified (free improvisation), Unidentified, Old Rag. Stereo mix, without bass introduction. Seventh Son, Blossom, Inside Story, Am I Wasting My Time, Is It Really the Same? (twice). Vocals by Jarrett with a band of keyboard, bass, drums, and saxophone/trombone/trumpet horn section, with some additional keyboard overdubs. All songs and arrangements presumably by Jarrett. Jarrett, piano and soprano saxophone, with Dewey Redman, tenor saxophone; Charlie Haden, bass; Paul Motian, drums; Sam Brown, guitar; and Airto Moreira, percussion. Expectations (introduction only, not the issued take), Common Mama (issued take), The Magician in You (issued take), Expectations (issued take), Take Me Back (issued take). There is a Road (not the issued take, fades out at 00:01:20), Nomads (issued take), Bring Back the Time When (If) (issued take), There is a Road (God's River) (issued take). The melody of this composition as recorded on Jarrett's first solo concert in New York City, produced and recorded by Avakian. Avakian lost the original tapes of the event; this recording is from a CD transfer. The complete recordings from which the Angles (Without Edges), Still Life Still Life, Fort Yawuh. Track 1: Whistle Tune, Melting the Ice. Track 2: De Drums, Still Life Still Life. Track 1: Angles (Without Edges), Roads Traveled Roads Veiled. Track 2: (If the) Misfits (Wear It). Track 1: De Drums, Melting the Ice. Track 2: Unidentified (possibly Fort Yawuh). You Know You Know. This version is longer than the one on track 2 of part 2. All tracks are unedited versions of what was released on the album. Track 1: Ruta and Daitya. Track 2: You Know You Know. Track 3: Unidentified. Exactly Like You, Tin Roof Blues, Dans Les rue Entibes, Honky Tonk Town, Careless Love, It Had To Be You, Lady Be Good, I Want A Little Girl, Rose Room, September in the Rain, If I Had You, Royal Garden Blues, Maggie Blues. Jack Hutton, trumpet and vocals; Mike Holt, trombone; George Dawson, soprano saxophone; Ian Christie, clarinet; Paul Dawson, guitar; Gordon Wood, guitar; Peter York, bass and vocals; John Llinares, vocals. Possibly a pilot for a proposed series. Produced George Simon, hosted by Paul Whiteman. House band led by Eddie Safranksi (Safranski, bass; Don Lamond, drums; Mundell Lowe, guitar; Dick Hyman, piano; Mickey McNichol, trumpet; Will Bradley, trombone; Artie Baker, clarinet; Hymie Shertzer, alto saxophone; Al Klink, tenor saxophone). With Teddy King, vocals; the Marian McPartland trio with drummer Joe Morello and bassist Bill Crow; and trumpeter Rex Stewart. Honeysuckle Rose (Safranksi band), Skylark (McPartland trio), short interview with McPartland, Royal Garden Blues (McPartland trio), Charlesville (Safranksi band), Moonlight In Vermont (King with the Safranski band), I Saw Stars (King with the McPartland trio and Rex Stewart), Boy Meets Horn (Rex Stewart with the Safranski band), Perdido (all guests and the Safranski band). A four-part British radio program on Bunk Johnson. Hosted by Michael Pointon, who interviews Bill Russell about Johnson. Music recordings are interspersed with the interview. Track 1: Episode 1. Track 2: Episode 2. See the insert file for a copy of the radio series guide. Track 1: Episode 3. Track 2: Episode 4. Sonia Karakach: Viens Viens Dans Mes Bras, Ou Etiez Vous Mademoiselle. Bunk Johnson: Some Day. Marais and Miranda: Columbia Records Convention Gag Song. Robert Mann and Robert Koff, violins; Raphael Hillyer, viola; Arthur Winograd, cello. KPFA radio broadcast, Berkeley, California. Track 1: Unidentified woman singing in French. Track 2: Max Kaminsky recording session. The session is to provide background music/sounds, not to record proper songs. Kaminsky, trumpet; George Wettling, drums. Possibly Pee Wee Russell, clarinet. The last few minutes contain copies of commercially-released material by various bands. A violinist. A Paganini concerto, and Beethoven's A singer/songwriter. Vocal and piano. Speak To Me, Hopelessly Romantic, Dance In America, Love Is Just a State Of Mind, I've Already Fallen In Love. Dance In America; Speak to Me; I've Already Fallen in Love. A song called Time Alone. Vocal with piano/bass/drums accompaniment. Without a Song, Resolution, Chili con Carne, Festival. Jeff Grayer, drums; Charles Thomas, piano; Earl Thomas, bass; Lewis Keel, tenor sax. The recording was sent to Avakian by Keel hoping for interest. Message from Ararat; Apricot Tree; Silence; Judement. The first two tracks arranged, performed, and recorded by Kessayan. The second two were performed by the Gary Kessayan jazz quintet at La Ve Lee club, Los Angeles, December 4, 1994 (unidentified personnel). King was an old friend of Avakian's. An NPR broadcast. Kirchner, reeds, with Jordan, vocals; Ralph Lalama, reeds; Glenn Wilson, reeds; Brian Lynch, trumpet; Bill Warfield, trumpet; Douglas Purviance, bass trombone; Marc Cohen, piano; Mike Richmond, bass; and Ron Vincent, drums. Track 1: So Many Stars (Sergio Mendes); Maximum Density (Andy LaVerne); Whose Little Angry Man (Sheila Jordan feature); unidentified. Track 2: I Concentrate On You; unidentified; Neil Tesser interviews Bill Kirchner. Soundtrack of the NBC television broadcast of Hallmark Hall of Fame. Starring Alfred Drake, Patricia Morrison, Julie Wilson, Bill Hayes, Harvey Lembeck, Jack Klugman, and Paul McGrath. Konitz, alto saxophone, and Solal, piano, recorded in Portland, Oregon. Track 1: Billie's Bounce, I'll Remember April, Body and Soul, Cherokee. Track 2: Loverman, Star Eyes, Untitled (Blues for Alice chord changes), The Theme. Some of this material was released on This concert was part of a tour Armstrong and Benny Goodman did together, but the two did not get along, and on this evening Goodman refused to perform. His drummer, Gene Krupa, led the band in his place and gave the excuse that Goodman was ill, but this was not true. The Benny Goodman Orchestra under the direction of Gene Krupa with the Louis Armstrong All Stars. Recorded by William Savory. The first half of the concert consisted of Armstrong and the All Stars, followed by the Goodman band. The second half consisted of the Gene Krupa Trio and Sextet, followed by Armstrong guesting with the Sextet, followed by an encore of the Goodman band. Armstrong's All Stars comprised Armstrong with Trummy Young, trombone; Barney Bigard, clarinet; Joe Bushkin, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass; and Cozy Cole, drums. The Goodman Orchestra for this evening consisted of Krupa, drums, with Willie Smith and Clint Naegley, alto saxophone; Georgie Auld, tenor saxophone; Sol Schlinger, baritone saxophone; Vernon Brown and Rex Peer, trombone; Al Stewart, Charlie Shavers, and Ziggy Elman, trumpet; Teddy Wilson, piano; Steve Jordan, guitar; Israel Crosby, bass; and Helen Ward, vocals. This was a CD-R transfer of the original tapes, but has some content not on the other tapes present in the collection. It is in correct concert running order. Track 1: Louis Armstrong and the All Stars: When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again In Indiana, C'est Si Bon, A Kiss to Build A Dream On, Muskrat Ramble, Tin Roof Blues, High Society (Barney Bigard feature), Unidentified (Joe Bushkin trio feature), Margie (Trummy Young feature), Big Mama's Home To Stay (Velma Middleton feature), That's My Desire (Armstrong-Middleton duet), Russian Lullaby (Arvell Shaw feature), Bugle Blues (Cozy Cole feature). Benny Goodman Orchestra: Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Gene Krupa Introductions, Always. Track 2: Benny Goodman Orchestra: Don't Be That Way, Helen Ward Introduction, I Feel A Song Comin' On, It's Been So Long, You Turned The Tables On Me, Roll 'Em. Gene Krupa Trio: Flying Home, Sophisticated Lady, Drum Boogie. Gene Krupa Sextet: Coronation Hop, Dark Eyes. Louis Armstrong with the Gene Krupa Sextet: When The Saints Go Marching In. Benny Goodman Orchestra: When The Saints Go Marching In, Sing Sing Sing, Goodbye. The Benny Goodman Orchestra: Bugle Call Rag, Gene Krupa's Introductions, Always, Don't Be That Way, Roll 'Em. The Gene Krupa Trio/Sextet: Flying Home, Sophisticated Lady, Drum Boogie, Coronation Hop, Dark Eyes, Signoff - Goodbye. The first three tracks feature Krupa, Wilson, and Willie Smith. Shavers, Jordan, and Crosby join on the next two. The full band plays on Goodbye. Benny Goodman Orchestra: Let's Dance, Bugle Call Rag, Gene Krupa's Introduction, Always, Don't Be That Way, Helen Ward Introduction, I Feel A Song Comin' On, It's Been So Long, You Turned The Tables On Me, What A Little Moonlight Can Do, Roll 'Em. Benny Goodman Orchestra: One O'Clock Jump, Sign-off - Goodbye. Louis Armstrong and the All Stars: When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again In Indiana, C'est Si Bon, A Kiss to Build A Dream On, Muskrat Ramble. Armstrong with The Gene Krupa Sextet: When The Saints Go Marching In. Goodman Orchestra: When the Saints Go Marching In, Sing Sing Sing, Sign-off - Goodbye, When The Saints Go Marching In. Individualist Waltz, Old Folks, Leaving, Think of Me, Comfy Cozy. David Lambert Singers: Lambert, Mary Vonnie, David Lucas, Sarah Boatner, Leslie Dorsey, vocals; Moe Wechsler, piano; George Duvivier, bass; Gary Chester, drums. Shiny Stockings, Watermelon Man, Sack O' Woe, Yeh-Yeh, Gimme That Wine, Bye Bye Blackbird. Except for the first track, all were released on See also Blake, Ran. Thursday's Child, He's Got the Whole World in His Hands, Unidentified, Bad Luck, Evil Blues, When Sunny Gets Blue, Love Isn't Everything, Left Alone, Straight Ahead (two takes), Season In The Sun introduction (at 00:39:28), When Malindy Sings (tag only, four takes), Straight Ahead (four takes). Lee, vocals; Blake, piano; with George Duvivier, bass (tracks 4 and 5). Don't Worry Now (also known as Worry Later/San Francisco Holiday, by Thelonious Monk), All or Nothing At All, God Bless the Child, About the Blues, When Malindy Sings, Night Train, Easy Living. Round About (take 2), Jim Crow (take 2), Vanguard (by Ran Blake, take 1), The Thrill is Gone (take 1), Alone Together (take 1), Lonely Woman (by Ornette Coleman, take 1), Vanguard (take 4). Lee, vocals and tambourine, with Gunter Hampel (bass clarinet, soprano saxophone, vibraphone, piano), Thomas Keyserling (flute, tenor saxophone, percussion), Allan Praskin (clarinet, alto saxophone, percussion), Perry Robinson (clarinet, percussion), Frederic Rabold (trumpet, cornet, flugelhorn, percussion), Jack Gregg (bass, percussion), and Martin Bues (drums). So Leicht Geht's Rauf, Manhattan Morning Blues, Gateway To The New, Garden Of Love, Garden Of Love, Gateway To The New, Bongologuthopejefremaaljia, Mr. Galaxie, Mr. Galaxie, Trav'lin' Light (Jimmy Mundy, James Oliver Trummy Young, Johnny Mercer), Im Himmel - In Heaven. All compositions by Gunter Hampel unless noted otherwise. Performed at Wetlands, New York City. Track 2: Swing Your Body; Hot Sicilian Pizza Boy; Bad Girl; Pussyfootin'; You Can Do It; Mario's Clam Bar; Good Stiff Cocktail; Crazy White Trash (start). Track 1: Crazy White Trash (conclusion). Some selections are rehearsals, not performances Track 1: Swing Your Body; Hot Sicilian Pizza Boy; Good Stiff Cocktail; Crazy White Trash; unidentified; Pussyfootin'. Track 2: Stardust; Just One of Those Things; unidentified; unidentified. See the insert file for articles about Legere. A demo by Legrand of two short pieces written for use by Datevik Hovenasian. A Keith Jarrett composition with Lellis's vocals, released on his album See also Armstrong, Louis. A recitation in German of an unidentified Brecht text. Recorded for MGM records. Billy Lester, piano; Frank Canino, bass; Ed Ornowski, drums. Track 1 (Lester solo in Toronto): What Is This Thing Called Love, Out of Nowhere, There Will Never Be Another You, Ornithology, Have You Met Miss Jones, Grasshopper's Holiday. Track 2 (trio in Holland): So Nice, These Foolish Things, All Of Me. This recording, the first to feature a Soviet and an American artist together, was produced by Avakian and released on New York Records. Multiple takes and inserts of all material. A film directed by Bruce Paltrow. Track 1: Multiple takes of J.S. Bach A 4-track recording. Tracks 1-3 have identical content: A music compilation assembled by Avakian, with his comments in between selections. See also the interviews with Lloyd, under Interviews. The film can be seen in Video Recordings, under Lloyd. The audio track of a promotional film. Narrated by George Avakian, with interviews of Lloyd interspersed with music. Music: Manhattan Carousel, Sweet Georgia Bright, Voice in the Night, Love Song to a Baby, Island Blues. Lloyd, tenor saxophone and flute, with Gabor Szabo, guitar; Charlie Haden, bass; and Louis Hayes, drums. Lloyd with Gabor Szabo, guitar; Ron Carter, bass; and Pete LaRoca, drums. This recording was eventually issued. Sweet Georgia Bright, How Can I Tell You, Lady Gabor. See the insert file for a clipping regarding this concert. Lady Gabor. The Song My Lady Sings, one version with an edited ending, the other unedited. Lloyd, tenor saxophone and flute, with Herbie Hancock, piano; Ron Carter, bass; and Roy Haynes, drums. Sweet Georgia Bright, How Can I Tell You, Little Anahid's Birthday. Island Blues. The Song My Lady Sings, Forest Flower. Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, piano; Cecil McBee, bass; and Jack DeJohnette, drums. Recorded for Sveridge Radio by Hans Fridlund. Forest Flower (unedited), East of the Sun (released version). Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack DeJohnette. Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, Ron McLure, and Jack DeJohnette. Days and Nights Waiting, Lady Gabor, Free Improvisation, Unidentified. Forest Flower. Sweet Georgia Bright, Sombrero Sam, Forest Flower. Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack Dejohnette. Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack DeJohnette. Honeysuckle Rose (Anita O'Day with the Tete Montoliu trio); Announcement by Andre Francix; Lloyd Quartet: Sweet Georgia Bright; Voice in the Night. Announcement by Andre Francix. Sweet Georgia Bright; Voice in the Night; Is It Really the Same; Tagore, Song of Her; unidentified. There is a gap in the program between 00:24:30 and 00:26:47. Dream Weaver: Meditation, Dervish Dance (July 25); East of the Sun (July 24). One for Joan; Lady Gabor. Love Song to a Baby. Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack DeJohnette. Portions of the albums East of the Sun; Margot; Song of Her; Forest Flower. Wild Flowers;, European Fantasy (released on Gypsy '66, European Fantasy (released on Beginning of second concert: Echo. Girl Talk, Tribal Dance. Sweet Georgia Bright; European Fantasy. Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, piano and soprano saxophone; Ron McClure, bass; and Jack DeJohnette, drums. The albums Memphis Green (released on Little Anahid's Day; Memphis Green (released on Twin Peaks (conclusion);, Is It Really the Same. My Loosinata; Here There and Everywhere; Love In (released on Piano Solo; Memphis Dues Again-Island Blues (released on Sunday Morning (an edited version was released on Tribal Dance (released on Piano Solo; Island Blues; Duet;, San Francisco Opus. Tagore; Forest Flower; Island Blues. Lloyd with Jane Getz, piano; Ron McClure, bass; and Paul Motian, drums. See the insert file for a clipping regarding the concert from a Japanese newspaper. Track 1: Introduction; Unidentified (blues); How Can I Tell You; One for Joan; unidentified (bass solo). Track 2: Bass solo (conclusion), unidentified, unidentified, Sombrero Sam. Four selections. Voice in the Night;, Sombrero Sam. Unidentified; Forest Flower. Manhattan Carousel; unidentified;, unidentified. Little Anahid's Day; unidentified. Speak Low; Love In/Island Blues; Wilpan's; Wilpan's (ending only); Wilpan's (repeated); Goin' to Memphis; Gypsy '66; Is It Really the Same; Margot. Most likely Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack DeJohnette. Little Anahid's Day; Outtakes from Magic Mountain Suite. Sweet George Bright. Little Anahid's Day; Manhattan Carousel;, Tagore (by Keith Jarrett). Lloyd with Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack DeJohnette. East of the Sun; Of Course Of Course; Love Song. "Verhulst" was written on spine of the original container. Manhattan Carousel; Island Blues. Lloyd with Jarrett, McClure, and DeJohnette. Days and Nights Waiting; unidentified; Gypsy '66. Sweet Georgia Bright. Unidentified; unidentified; Twin Peaks (Lloyd-Jarrett Duet);, unidentified. Tribal Dance; Sweet Georgia Bright; Love Song to a Baby; unidentified. There is a gap in the recording from 00:24:43 to 00:26:02. Lloyd with Jarrett, McClure, and DeJohnette. Love Song To a Baby; Dream Weaver; Sunday Morning; Island to Antibes; Here, There and Everywhere; Long Time Baby. Days And Nights Waiting;, Tagore. Lady Gabor; Island Blues. Lloyd with Jarrett, Jack DeJohnette, and either Cecil McBee or Ron McClure. Jarrett plays soprano saxophone on the second tune. European Fantasy;, C.L. Blues. Unidentified tune, recorded with Jim Hall and rhythm section. This is a low-volume recording that suffers from both pre- and post- print-through. How Can I Tell You. Lady Gabor. With Gabor Szabo, guitar. "Side 2 stereo master." One for Joan (May 8, 1964, takes 1-3); She's A Woman (March 8, 1965, rehearsal and takes 1-4); You Know (March 8, 1965, rehearsal and take 1); Love Theme from In Harm's Way (October 15, 1965). East of the Sun (released on Of Course Of Course (take 7); Third Floor Richard (take 3); Voice in the Night (take 2); Of Course Of Course (rehearsal and takes 1-6); Third Floor Richard (rehearsal and take 1). Lloyd, tenor sax, flute; Gabor Szabo, guitar; Ron Carter, bass; Tony Williams, drums. Studio conversation is interspersed throughout. Lloyd with Gabor Szabo and Robbie Robertson, guitars; Albert Stinson, bass; and Pete LaRoca, drums. Carcara; Sun Dance; Island Blues (multiple takes of all three). See the insert file for a recording data sheet. Long Time Baby (takes 1-12); Carcara (composite take and insert takes);, Long Time Baby (composite take). See the insert file for recording information. Carcara (takes 1-7). Lloyd, tenor saxophone and flute, with Keith Jarrett, piano; Cecil McBee, bass; and Jack DeJohnette, drums. Manhattan Carousel; Love Ship. Sombrero Sam (takes 1-3). Manhattan Carousel (takes 1-6 and inserts); Blues for Tommy Bee (takes 1-6). Blues for Tommy Bee; Little Anahid's Day. Sombrero Sam (take 1); Island Blues (takes 1-2). Island Blues (take 3); Long Time Baby (Love-In) (takes 1-5). Tagore (rehearsal and takes 1-3). See the insert file for a copy of the tape box, which has Avakian's comments. Keith's Piece (5 takes); Manhattan Carousel (5 takes). Wilpan's (by Cecil McBee, takes 1-2); Song for Her (by Cecil McBee, takes 1-2); Sorcery. Séance (2 takes); East of the Sun (2 takes). Island Blues (take 1); Wilpan's (by Cecil McBee, takes 3-6); Manhattan Carousel (takes 2-3). The first track is with an unidentified rhythm section of guitar-bass-drums, and is NOT from the September 8th Atlantic recording session. The last two selections are likely from September 8th, with Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack DeJohnette. Sombrero Sam; Voice in the Night; Pre-Dawn; Forest Flower. A rough mix edited for Arif Mardin. Wilpan's (Take 1 studio date); Wilpan's (breakdown); Lady Gabor (Fillmore); Lady Gabor (Oslo); Unidentified (Swedish TV); A Different Journey (Swedish TV). Lloyd with Jarrett, McBee, and DeJohnette. Is It Really the Same; Tagore, European Fantasy; Sorcery; Goin' To Memphis. On Radio Sverige. Wilpan's; Margot; Dream Weaver. A radio program on Radiodiffusion-Télévision Française. Lloyd, Keith Jarrett, Cecil McBee, and Jack DeJohnette. There were originally six tapes, but only this one (the second) could be digitized. See the insert file for the full original track listing for. On this tape: Song of Her (Cecil McBee), Zoltan (Charles Lloyd), and European Opus No. 4 (Charles Lloyd). Unidentified music. Audio only from a broadcast on HK-TVB. Most likely Lloyd with Jane Getz, Ron McClure, and Paul Motian. See the insert file. Days and Nights Waiting; Tagore; Little Anahid's Day;, Forest Flower. Lloyd with Jane Getz, piano; Ron McClure, bass; and Paul Motian, drums. The Song My Lady Sings (Lloyd), How Can I Tell You (Lloyd), Child's Play (Szabo), Voice In the Night (Lloyd), Love Song to a Baby (Lloyd). Lloyd performs the melodies on flute, accompanied by an unidentified pianist. Unidentified arrangers and musicians. The Song My Lady Sings (mono), Voice in the Night (mono), The Song My Lady Sings (stereo), Voice in the Night (stereo). How Can I Tell You; The Song My Lady Sings; followed by unidentified group/song. Unidentified titles. Unidentified titles. An episode of the BBC Radio 2 series hosted by Laine and Dankworth, featuring performances at the New Stables Theater, Milton Keynes, United Kingdom. With performances by the house big band; and vocalists Jamie Cullum and Juliet Roberts. Take the A Train (band), Too Close For Comfort (Jaime Cullum), I Can't Get Started (Jaime Cullum), Devil May Care (Jaime Cullum), So You Say (Juliet Roberts), They Can't Take That Away From Me (Juliet Roberts, cut off at end). The Laine/Dankworth program begins at 14:30 on track 2. Track 1 and the beginning of track 2 consists of an episode of musician/DJ Humphrey Lyttelton's BBC jazz program. Radio broadcast premiere. Performed by the New York Philharmonic conducted by Leonard Bernstein, with a jazz quintet of Art Farmer, trumpet; John LaPorta, alto saxophone and clarinet; Don Butterfield, tuba; Wendell Marshall, bass; and Ed Shaughnessy, drums. A performance of Macero's music at Cooper Union. Max Pollikoff, violin; Herman Wright, bass; Eddie Bert, trombone; Teddy Charles, vibraphone; Teo Macero, alto saxophone; Bobby Gregg, percussion; Don Butterfield, tuba; Ettore Stratta, piano. Track 1: In Retrospect; La 'Embrace; Valentine; Theme for the Uncommon Man; Polaris. Track 2: Hoe Down Square; Ricercar; Le Grand Spectacle. Macero conducting the London Philharmonic Orchestra. The second through fourth selections on track 1 were released on Nite Walk (big band), Girl Watching (big band), Blues for China (Charlie Byrd performance), 1 3/4 (for chamber orchestra), Warm Wind of Ireland (for orchestra), Pressure (for Orchestra), Blues for Monk (big band funk), Hugo (big band funk), The Man Nobody Saw (Miles Davis performance), Blues for Amy (small band). An arrangement for trumpet, alto saxophone, guitar, vibraphone, tuba, and drums. Unknown musicians. Unidentified, unidentified, O Come All Ye Faithful, unidentified, Frosty the Snowman, White Christmas, Jingle Bells, Silent Night, Let It Snow, unidentified, unidentified. A band of tenor saxophone, guitar, synthesizer, bass, drums, and percussion. Magic Sam, guitar, with an unidentified band of bass, drums, and tenor saxophone. Looking Good, Bad Luck, I'm Crying, Feeling Good, Blues for the West Side, Ridin' High. The insert file contains a recording data sheet and a letter regarding the artist and the recording. If I Could Touch You; The Strength to Do it All. A reading of the Dr. Seuss book by actor Marvin Miller, accompanied by Manne and an unidentified bassist. A vocalist. Four unidentified songs. Four unidentified songs. A live recording at the Blue Bird club. Unidentified titles (Manukian scats with piano accompaniment). The performance is on all of track 1 and the first six minutes of track 2. The remainder of track 2 is a studio recording, unidentified titles. Margaret Ann was the name under which the actress Margaret Ann Peterson recorded. Dudley Digby Darling (multiple takes), The Girl That Johnny Walked Home (multiple takes). Hot Dog That Made Him Mad (multiple takes), Too Late My Darling (multiple takes), The Girl That Johnny Walked Home. Maslov, piano; Ben Street, bass; George Schuller, drums. A studio recording. Track 1: In Your Own Sweet Way; Round Midnight; Let's Start Smoking Again; Waltz for Julie; I Miss You Dad. Track 2: The Duke; Let's Not and Say We Did. See also an interview with Masselos, under Interviews. A solo recital. Two tracks, unidentified selections. Track 1: Unidentified work for solo piano. Track 2: Unidentified work for solo piano. Unidentified work by Charles Ives for solo piano. This was a multi-hour performance with four intermissions. Performed with the American Symphony Orchestra at Carnegie Hall, Leopold Stokowski conducting. These recordings comprise the entire concert. Masselos performs on part 2 only. Track 1: First movement. Track 2: Second and third movements. Cabrillo Festival of Contemporary Music, Aptos, California. See the insert file for a recording data sheet. Masselos with the Tokyo Metropolitan Symphony Orchestra, Akeo Watanabe, conductor, at Tokyo Metropolitan Hall. Masselos noted on the tape box, "terrible performance on my part. Beginning of hand problems." Cabrillo Festival of Contemporary Music, Aptos, California. See also the 1969 Carnegie Hall performance. Recorded by Masselos for RCA, and commercially-released. This recording is from a digital remastering of the original tapes by Max Wilcox on May 5, 1990, which may not ever have been released. The sonata begins at 12:41, preceded by an unidentified work. A "pirate" recording, second dub. There is a brief interruption in the recording. A copy of version 1 (and therefore of lower sound quality), but without the interruption. Unidentified performance venue. World premiere. Masselos with the New York Philharmonic, Leonard Bernstein, conductor. This was a radio broadcast. Unidentified pianist, unidentified work. No performers are identified. Track 1: See also the interviews with Mathis, under Interviews. Mathis with an unidentified pianist. You Hit the Spot, I Married an Angel, Autumn in New York, What is There to Say, Old Devil Moon, You Make Me Feel So Young, Dancing on the Ceiling. Mathis backed by an unidentified pianist and bassist. Prelude to a Kiss, Love for Sale, My Silent Love, The Song is You, The Masquerade is Over, From This Moment On, There Will Never Be Another You, Don't Come Any Closer Just Stay Where You Are, Willow Weep for Me, I Remember You, Polkadota and Moonbeams, Speak Low, Taking a Chance on Love, My Funny Valentine, Mountain Greenery, This Can't Be Love, I Get a Kick Out of You, I Should Care, They Can't Take That Away from Me, You Don't Know What Love Is, The Gypsy in My Soul, Hard Hearted Hannah, You Better Go Now, The Nearness of You, Easy Living. Mathis with an unidentified pianist, bassist, and drummer. In Other Words, Babalu, Tenderly, Lush Life, I'm Glad There Is You, Flamingo, Angel Eyes, I Married An Angel, Star Eyes, Will You Still Be Mine, It Might As Well Be Spring, Just Friends (2 takes), Caravan, When Your Lover Has Gone, Easy To Love, Stella By Starlight, Have You Met Miss Jones, Love Your Magic Spell, All The Things You Are, Cabin in the Sky, One For My Baby, Autumn in Rome, Street of Dreams, You Are Too Beautiful, Out Of This World, Early Autumn. Cabin in the Sky (multiple takes). I Married An Angel (rehearsal), Cabin in the Sky (rehearsal, takes 1-2, and inserts). Manny Albam, arranger, conductor; Bernie Glow, trumpet; Ray Beckenstein, flute; Ben Harrod, oboe; Hal McKusick, clarinet and alto saxophone; Danny Bank, bass clarinet; Eddie Costa, piano and vibraphone; Barry Galbraith, guitar, Milt Hinton, bass; Osie Johnson, drums. Recording of instrumental tracks with Mathis guide vocals barely audible. I've Got My Love to Keep Me Warm (possibly never issued, with an arrangement by Percy Faith). The rest of the tape contents were all released on the Beginning to 00:35:16 is an unidentified piano trio, followed by Maro and Anahid Ajemian performing an unidentified work, possibly for an MGM recording session. From 00:36:15 to 00:40:32 is a Johnny Mathis recording session: You Are Too Beautiful. A CBS radio broadcast live from Basin Street, New York City. Jackson, piano, with Peter Appleyard, vibraphone; Johnny Elwood, bass; and Howard Reay, drums. Greensleeves, Heat Wave, Tenderly, Cal-isthenics, Easy To Love, 'S Wonderful. Mathis sings only on Tenderly and Easy To Love. This is the only documentation of Mathis and Erroll Garner performing together. An informal performance and recording. Mathis with Erroll Garner, piano; Chuck Wayne, guitar; Billy (?), drums. Johnny Mathis: Too Close For Comfort, Tenderly, That Old Black Magic, It Had To Be You, Always, Lost In The Stars, I Can't Give You Anything But Love. Vocalist Cassie Johnson (?): Love Me Or Leave Me, My Funny Valentine. Jerry Vale: unidentified, Just One More Chance. A short voice recording, probably meant to be played at an awards ceremony, giving a short personal history of how Mathis and Avakian met. Bill Mays, piano, arranger; Harvie Swartz, bass; Peter Sprague, guitar; Jeff Hirshfield, drums; Dick Oatts, reeds. Recorded at Sunset Studios, New York City. Track 1: Samba Suileabhain (Bill Mays); For All We Know; Adirondack Wedding Serenade (Bill Mays); Love Locked Out; Four; Isn't It Romantic. Track 2: Jayne; Boomerang (Bill Mays); Peace Waltz (Bill Mays); When the Sun Comes Out; My Man's Gone now; Body and Soul. An orchestral version of a piece for choir recorded for McCartney's album Bach: An album with pianist Dick Katz. Takes 5 and 6, with an insert. Multiple takes. An album released only in Italy. Songs are preceded by explanations in Italian. Night And Day, Everything Happens To Me, Autumn In New York, Why Didn't You Do Right, You Don't Know What Love Is. These Foolish Things, April In Paris, I've Got You Under My Skin, In My Solitude, Willow Weep for Me; When Your Lover Has Gone. A studio recording. Produced and hosted by Steve Schwartz for WGBH radio, Boston. Merrill is not interviewed on the program. Track 1: Part 1. Track 2: Part 2. Track 1: Part 3. Track 2: Part 4. Selections from the discography of the King Jazz label, with introductions by Mezz Mezzrow. Track 1: Mid-America Jazz Festival All-Stars - Don Goldie, leader, cornet and vocals; Peanut Hucko, clarinet; Al Grey, trombone; Buddy Tate, tenor saxophone; Eddie Higgins, piano; Arvell Shaw, bass and vocals; Butch Miles, drums. I Can't Get Started; When It's Sleepy Time Down South; Do You Know What It Means to Miss New Orleans; unidentified; Summertime; unidentified; Spoken recording notes by Dave Rubin, who recorded the tape. Track 2: Love Lies (Ralph Sutton, piano; Milt Hinton, bass; Gus Johnson, Jr., drums); Love Lies (Jim Cullum Jazz Band); Blue Creek (Buddy Tate and Al Grey); Just A Closer Walk With Thee (Peanuts Hucko, Ralph Sutton, Milt Hinton, Gus Johnson); Body and Soul (Eric Schneider, tenor sax, with same rhythm section); Memories of You (Peanuts Hucko); unidentified blues and boogie-woogie pieces (Jay McShann, piano, with Milt Hinton and Gus Johnson, Jr.). Track 1: Discussion with comedians Steve Shaffer, Mark Schiff, Dennis Wolfberg, and Carol Liefer about ethnic humor. Track 2: Michael Moriarity actor and jazz vocalist, with an unidentified pianist and bassist, live performance. Halfway through, Silvia Simms joins. Millonzi, piano, with an unidentified bassist. I Can't Get Started, My Heart Stood Still, Let's Fall in Love, Cheek to Cheek. Unidentified music. Percussion, violin, and cello. The tape box noted "w/AAA." Excerpts from the album Unidentified titles. Two tracks. See also Video Recordings. Morrison accompanying himself on guitar. Sweet Little 16, Ebb Tide, Bewitched, New Orleans, Oh Carol, That's My Desire, The Touch of Your Lips, Summertime, Canadian Sunset, More, New Orleans (overdubbed), Sweet Little 16 (overdubbed). Summertime, New Orleans, More, Fare Thee Well, It Only Takes a Moment, San Francisco Bay Blues, The Touch of Your Lips, Sweet Little Sixteen, The First Time, Oh Carol, Bewitched, Bad To Me, Ebb Tide, La Bamba. Track 1: Unidentified, You'll Never Walk Alone, Stella By Starlight, Laura, unidentified, Blowing in the Wind, unidentified, Tonight. Track 2: You'll Never Walk Alone, unidentified, Chances Are, I Am A Poor Wayfaring Stranger, Ten Thousand Miles, unidentified, Tonight, Forget Him, unidentified. Track 3: The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face, What Kind of Fool Am I, Bewitched Bothered and Bewildered, Ebb Tide, San Francisco Bay Blues. What Kind of Fool Am I, Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered, Ebb Tide, San Francisco Bay Blues, That's My Desire, Ebb Tide. Takes 1 and 4. A band with Terry Waldo, piano, and Vince Giordano (either tuba or banjo). Giordano discovered the composition, which was never recorded by Morton. I Hear Music (the recording begins in the middle of the tune), unidentified, Eighteen Carrots for Rabbit, Polkadots and Moonbeams, Blueport (the recording cuts off before the ending). No personnel identified. Mulligan with the Junior Mance Trio (Mance, piano; Martin Rivera, bass; and Oliver Jackson, drums): Bernie's Tune, Man on the Run Blues, New Orleans, Line for Lyons, Second Time Around. Mulligan with the Junior Mance Trio: The Good Life, Night Lights, Five Brothers, Song for Strayhorn. Mulligan with the Junior Mance Trio: unidentified, The Davenport Blues. Mulligan with the Festival Big Band: unidentified, Come Rain or Come Shine. Mulligan with the Festival Big Band: Walkin' Shoes, unidentified, With A Smile On Your Face, Youngblood, Swing House, Blues. Mulligan, baritone saxophone, with Tom Fay, piano; Dave Samuels, vibraphone; Mike Santiago, guitar; George Duvivier, bass; and Bob Rosengarden, drums. Unidentified, Walk On Water, unidentified, unidentified. Recorded at Downtown Sound Studio. Six instrumentals for studio ensemble. Track 1: Drum solo; flute joins; then group. Track 2: Percussion; Voice; Saxophone; Group. Murphy, drums; with Mary Anne Driscoll, piano and vocals; Peter Clark, French horn; and Arthur Barron, flute and soprano saxophone. Murphy, trombone; Wally Rose, piano; Bob Helm, clarinet; Dick Lammi, banjo; Bob Short, tuba. Sweet Substitute (take five), Bill Bailey (take two), Baby Won't You Please Come Home (takes two and three), Peoria (take three), Jug Stomp. See a letter from Avakian to Murphy in box 48, folder 16 for details on this recording. Canal Street, New Orleans Joys, New Orleans Stomp, St. James Infirmary, Trombone Rag, See See Rider, Maryland My Maryland, 1919 Rag, Dippermouth, Struttin' With Some Barbecue (from Butterfield session in New York), Struttin' With Some Barbecue (from New Orleans), Mecca Flat, Fidgety Feet, St. James Infirmary. Froggymore Rag, Storyville Blues, Mack the Knife, Ragtime Dance, Riverside Blues, When the Saints Go Marching In, Memphis Blues, Coal Cart Blues, After You've Gone. No titles noted. When You're Smiling, Flamin Mamie, The Pearls, Row Row Row, Gettysburg, Panama. Recorded at the home of Jane and John Weiller, Hartsdale, New York. Murphy, trombone and washboard, with Pete Clute, piano; Jim Mahack, tuba and banjo; Phil Howe, clarinet and soprano saxophone; Leon Oakley, cornet; Carl Lunsford, banjo; and Jimmy Stanislaus, vocals. Papa Dip, Skid Dee De Dat, Dr. Jazz (vocal by Lean Oakley), Euphonic Sounds, Petit Fleur, When You're Smiling, Melancholy, I Wish I Was in Peoria, Original Rags, St. James Infirmary Blues, Back o' Town Blues, Oh! You Rascal You, Canal Street Blues, Blues My Naughty Sweetie Gives to Me, Gone Daddy, My Heart, The Torach, Magic Theme, Row Row Row, Tribute to George Avakian (spoken by Murphy). See the insert file for the content listing. Just a Little While to Stay Here, Save it Pretty Mama, When the Saints Go Marching In, The Pearls, Wildman Blues, Peacan Pete, Tell Me Pretty Papa, Cake Walkin' Babies from Home, Someday You'll Be Sorry, The World is Waiting for the Sunrise, Sidewalk Blues, London Blues, Whitewash Man, Yama Yama Man, Curse of an Aching Heart, Chimes Blues, A Closer Walk With Thee, Down By the Riverside, Theme. Murphy's band recorded in a restaurant or club. The personnel include Murphy on trombone; Pete Clute, piano; John Gill, cornet, soprano saxophone, and banjo; Bill Carroll, trombone and tuba; and Bob Helm, clarinet and soprano saxophone. Track 1: Unidentified, Riverside Blues, Clapfoot, Perdido Street Blues, Dr. Jazz, Got Them Blues, Row Row Row, Silver Fox Rag, This Train. Track 2: Get It Right, unidentified, Royal Garden Blues, When the Saints Go Marchin' In, Bill Bailey. Track 1: Creole Belle, Wish She Could Shimmy Like My Sister Kate, unidentified, The Cascade, You Got Everything Your Sweet Mama Needs But Me, I Am Pecan Pete, Dallas Blues, unidentified, 35th Street Blues. Track 2: Shreveport Stomp, unidentified, Bill Bailey, unidentified, The White Wash Men, unidentified, unidentified. Track 1: Unidentified, Sweet Substitute, Struttin' With Some Barbecue. Track 2: Go and Get Her, The Whitewash Man. Joplin's New Rag, Baby Won't You Please Come Home, Red Eye, Coney Island Washboard, Duff Campbell's Revenge, unidentified, The Big Bear Stomp. Track 1: After You've Gone, Drop That Sack, Aunt Hagar's Blues, The Pearl, Evolution Mama, King Chaticleer. Track 2: Shake That Thing, Flat Foot, theme. The Curse of Making Heart. Track 1: Mississippi Rag, Ragged But Right (vocal by Pat Yarkee and Turk Murphy), Something For Annie (Murphy original), I Wish I Wasn't In Peoria (vocal by Yarkee and Murphy), Abyss (Murphy original), Sunset Café Stomp., Track 2: Oceana Roll (vocal and banjo by Jim Maihack), For Once In My Life (Phil Howe, soprano sax), Bit for Sesame Street (Written and sung by Bud Luckey. Pete Clute, piano, Turk Murphy, euphonium). The tape had the date as "11/23/1980," but the insert says "Nov. 23, 1981." No specific personnel is listed, but the insert notes an 8-musician band with two trumpets. Track 1: Riverside Blues, 35th St. Blues, New Orleans Stomp, Yellow Dog Blues, Canal St. Blues, Brother Low-Down, Kansas City Man Blues, Willie the Weeper, Got Dem Blues, Get Out of Here. Track 2: South, Cakewalkin' Babies, Gone Daddy Blues, High Society, Mabel's Dream, Down Home Rag, Georgia Bobo, Irish Black Bottom, Skid Da De Day, Froggy-More Rag, Papa Dip. See the insert file. Unidentified titles. Two tracks. A radio documentary broadcast. Includes interviews with rocket scientists. Two tracks. Geroge Avakian noted the tape belonged to his brother Aram. See also Music for Moderns in Subseries I.B for more information and programs; and Willis Conover's interview with Avakian regarding the concerts in subseries IV.B, Interviews. Produced by George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian at Town Hall, New York City. The first half of the opening night concert. Anahid Ajemian, violin, Dimitri Mitropoulos, conductor. The second half of the opening night concert. Sonnet for Caesar; Sonnet to Hank Cinq; The Telecasters; Lady Mac; Sonnet in Search of a Moor; Such Sweet Thunder; Sonnet for Sister Kate; Up and Down, Up and Down (I Will Lead Them Up and Down). The Star-Crossed Lovers; Madness in Great Ones; Half the Fun; Cop Out. Carlos Chavez: Nanton, piano, with an unidentified bassist and drummer. Unidentified, My One and Only Love, unidentified, Autumn Leaves, I'll Remember April, unidentified. LA Blues (by Gene DiNovi), Pot Luck (by Gene Orloff), Down Hall (by Gene Orloff), Three Pieces (by Isaac Albéniz). Ray Beckenstein, soprano saxophone; Eddie Caine, alto saxophone; Al Epstein, tenor saxophone; Danny Bank, baritone saxophone. The first three pieces were likely released on the album All selections unidentified. Dr. Kuntry Funk, Why Don't You Understand, Let's Make When Right Now, Can You Feel Me. Dion Tucker, trombone; Jason Brown, drums; Gretchen Parlato, vocals; Josh Davis, bass; Kevin Louis, trumpet; Emanuel Ruffler, keyboards. Anahid Ajemian was a limited partner for the 1979 Off Broadway production. A rough recording of part of the musical before an audience, probably while the revue was in development. An audience recording of the musical. Two tracks. Michael Zwerin, bass trumpet/trombone; Eric Dolphy, bass clarinet; Jerome Richardson, flute; Richard Davis, bass; John Lewis, piano; Connie Kay, drums. "Havana Song" (also known as "Jacob Schmidt"). Multiple takes. See the insert file for a recording data sheet. Moon of Alabama (2 takes), As You Make Your Bed (takes 1-3). A take sheet is in the insert file. Harold Farberman, conductor; John Lewis, piano, director; Coleman Hawkins, tenor saxophone. Duke Bey also includes Jerome Richardson, alto saxophone; and Ray Shanfeld, baritone saxophone. Other personnel unknown (reeds, brass, strings). Duke Bey (multiple takes and inserts). See the insert file for recording data. A Portrait of Coleman Hawkins (edited take), Duke Bey (edited take, inserts, takes 14-15), A Portrait of Coleman Hawkins (take 1 and inserts). A Portrait of Coleman Hawkins (multiple takes and inserts). See the insert file for recording data. A Portrait of Coleman Hawkins (multiple takes and inserts). Content takes only the first 10:30 of the recording. See the insert file for recording data. Duke Bey (takes 12-13 and inserts), A Portrait of Coleman Hawkins (take 13 inserts, take 2, take 4). Edited takes of master selections. See also the insert file. Conducted by Harold Farberman. Nathan Goldstein, violin, with Orchestra U.S.A., Gunther Schuller conducting. Studio recording, never issued. Smith, clarinet, with Orchestra U.S.A., Gunther Schuller, conducting. Released on Music by the composer, unidentified titles, on two tracks. See the insert file for Orlovetsky's business card and a note enclosed with the recording (in Russian). See also Kid Ory in Video Recordings. Unidentified work and composer (to 00:01:49), followed by Kid Ory recordings. The music is interspersed with announcements and letters of greeting to Avakian. See the insert file for more information. David Ostwald, leader, tuba, announcements; Jon-Erik Kellso, cornet; Dion Tucker, trombone; Anat Cohen, clarinet; Mark Shane, piano; Marion Felder, drums. An audience recording. Back Home Again in Indiana, Out of Nowhere, Squeeze Me, Weary Blues, Someday Sweetheart, Jeep's Blues. Struttin' With Some Barbecue, Blues My Naughty Sweetie Gives to Me, Memphis Blues, George Avakian speaks, The World is Waiting for the Sunrise. See the insert file for more information. The music is interspersed with tributes to Avakian. Ostwald, host, tuba, with Wycliffe Gordon, trombone; Randy Sandke, trumpet; Anat Cohen, clarinet; Mark Shane, piano; Kevin Dorn, drums; Paquito D'Rivera, clarinet (guest). Track 1: When It's Sleepy Time Down South, There'll Be Some Changes Made, Rocking Chair, St. Louis Blues, Thou Swell, Black and Blue, Weary Blues, Happy Birthday. Track 2: Avakian speaks, Ding Dong Daddy From Dumas, Mood Indigo, I'm Crazy 'bout My Baby, Struttin' With Some Barbeque, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, Mood Indigo, Willie the Weeper, The World Is Waiting for the Sunrise, Memories of You, Weary Blues, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Randy Sandke, trumpet; Anat Cohen, clarinet; Vincent Gardner, trombone; Howard Alden, banjo; David Ostald, tuba and leader; Kevin Dorn, drums. Set 2 only: Everybody Loves My Baby, Dinah, One Hundred Years from Today, Swing That Music, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Charlie Caranicas, trumpet; Will Anderson, clarinet; Dion Tucker, trombone; Howard Alden, banjo; Aaron Diehl, piano; David Ostwald, tuba and leader; Marion Felder, drums. Louis Armstrong Centennial band: Jon-Erik Kellso, trumpet; Anat Cohen, clarinet; Dan Block, clarinet; Wycliffe Gordon, trombone; Vince Giordano, banjo; David Ostwald, tuba, leader; Marion Felder, drums. When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Back Home Again in Indiana, Rockin' Chair, Heart Full of Rhythm, Wrap Your Troubles In Dreams, Weary Blues, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Atlanta Blues, Azalea, Ko- Ko, That Old Feeling, Honeysuckle Rose, Swing That Music, When It's Sleepy Time Down South. Unidentified, Blue Monk, Memories of You, Struttin' with Some Barbecue, unidentified, unidentified, unidentifed (trombone feature), unidentified, unidentified, unidentifed. Recorded by Mark Prestifilippo at the Houlihan-McLean Center. Unidentified personnel. Part one was missing. The audio is distorted. Unidentified (conclusion of tune only), Down in Honky-Tonky Town, unidentified. Ostwald, tuba; Jon-Erik Kellso, trumpet; Anat Cohen, clarinet; other personnel announcements are inaudible. Track 1: Jubilee Stomp; When Day is Done (with two inserts); Don't Forget to Mess Around (with two inserts); Lover Come Back to Me (with two inserts); Thou Swell (with one insert); Someday Sweetheart (with one insert). Track 2: Panama; T'ain't So Honey, T'ain't So; Blues In My heart (with one insert); New Orleans Stomp (with two inserts); Changes; Who's It (with one insert); Home (with three inserts); Diga Diga Doo. This was the first performance of two Louis Armstrong compositions after they were re-discovered by Avakian at the Library of Congress. Ostwald, tuba, with Randy Sandke, trumpet; Ken Peplowski, clarinet; and Howard Alden, banjo and guitar. Track 1: Jubilee Stomp, That's My Home, From Monday On, Black and Blue, Dr. Jazz, Papa What Are You Trying To Do To Me I've Been Doing It For Years (newly-discovered Louis Armstrong composition), When You're Smiling. Track 2: Shim-Me-Sha-Wabble, Singin' the Blues, When You Leave Me Alone To Pine (newly-discovered Louis Armstrong composition), St. Louis Blues, I Got Rhythm, Swing That Music. See also Re-Discovered Music of Armstrong and Beiderbecke. Ostwald, tuba, with Joe Muryani, clarinet; Randy Sandke, trumpet; Dan Barrett, trombone; Eddy Davis, banjo and vocals; and Joe Ascione, drums. Track 1: When I Grow Too Old To Dream (begins mid-tune), I'll Never Be the Same, All By Myself, Monday Date, Winin' Boy Blues, June Night. Track 2: I Would Do Most Anything For You, I've Got a Feeling I'm Falling, Papa What Are You Trying To Do To Me I've Been Doing It For Years, When You Leave Me Alone to Pine, Sorry, C'est Si Bon, Limehouse Blues. Track 1: Ory's Creole Trombone, When Day Is Done, My Buddy, Thanks a Million, I Found a New Baby, Swing That Music. Track 2: Phil Schaap on radio station WKCR in 1996 playing and discussing Louis Armstrong. Willis Conover Intro, Indiana, Mack the Knife, Whispering, Bugle Blues/Ole Miss, Struttin' With Some Barbeque, 'Twas the Night Before Xmas. Some material is from Armstrong's performance at the Newport Jazz Festival in 1956. A separate recording of the La Belle Epoque performance, with better sound quality. The contents consist only the recently re-discovered Armstrong compositions: Papa What Are You Trying To Do To Me I've Been Doing It For Years; When You Leave Me Alone to Pine. Down t'Uncle Bill's (Carmichael-Mercer), Runaway Rag (McKean), Groton farewell (McKean, vocal by Annette O'Toole). The CD was labeled with the title above. With the exception of O'Toole, the other singers and musicians are not credited. The recording was labeled "To George From Michael and Annette." Multiple tracks. Track 1: Louis Armstrong singing The Whiffenpoof Song. Tracks 3-7: Multiple takes of songs from the musical Gumbo Shack, Nawlins Jazzfest, Crescent City Streetcar, Stone Flowers. Music written and performed by Papafrog. Lyrics and vocals - LuIuy Papafrog. Recorded at Frogland studios. Master tapes for an unidentified album by an Israeli jazz group led by saxophonist Roman Kunsman. Avakian noted that the album had been released on the Chiaroscuro label, but no such release can be found. Three selections. One continuous track. Recorded at the home of Sherman Fairchild, New York City. Powell, solo piano, unless noted otherwise. March 11, 1953: I've Got You Under My Skin, Sure Thing, Lullaby of Birdland (with Marian McPartland, piano), Eternity, Embraceable You (with Marian McPartland), Oblivion, Parisian Thoroughfare. September 21, 1955: Buttercup (with Ed Thigpen, drums), It Never Entered My Mind, Thou Swell (with Ed Thigpen). This is a copy of an original tape held by the Sibley Library, Eastman School of Music. For the Broadway play. Music composed by Prince for choreographer Jerome Robbins's "Ballets U.S.A." America. Multiple takes. Alto saxophone (possibly Phil Woods), guitar, bass, drums, and percussion. Untitled Piece No. 1 (multiple takes). Mondel's Hotel (2 takes). Joe's Blues, Phil's Blues, Perdido. Three takes of each. "Pop Art." Composed, arranged, and conducted by Prince. Produced by the advertising firm Benton and Bowles. Comic strip Sound Effects- George Avakian (see also The High Camps) ; Lifesaver commercial; Hole in the middle - extended version of Lifesaver commercial. South Coast, Michael Row the Boat Ashore, Morphine Bill (?), unidentified, Maria Christina, unidentified, Zoolaika, Tziganitchka, This Land Is Your Land, Hush Little Baby (Lucy Lucy), Kumbaya. Portions of this performance were issued on the album Michael Row the Boat Ashore, Kumbaya, South Coast, unidentified, Hush Little Baby (Lucy Lucy), Michael Row the Boat Ashore, Tom Dooley, Volga Volga, Suliram, unidentified, unidentified, This Land Is Your Land. Rago, piano and vocal. My Funny Valentine, The Nearness of You, Just Like A Star, Sunday Kind of Love, Autumn Leaves, When Somebody Loved Me, One Thing (Annie J. Rago), What A Wonderful World, You and I, Reminiscing (Annie J. Rago), Part of That World, Weak (Annie J. Rago.) Zurab Ramishvili, piano; Pavle Kvatchadze, bass guitar; George Salagashvili, drums. Track 1: Unidentified; Green Dolphin Street; unidentified. Track 2: A jazz fusion recording which may or may not be Ramishvili. See the insert file for biographical information about Ramishvili. See also Ostwald, David. A recording made for Avakian by Randy Sandke, consisting of Bix Beiderbecke and Louis Armstrong recordings, and Sandke demonstrating music at the piano, with his commentary. Randy Sandke, Nicolas Payton, trumpets; Ken Peplowski, clarinet, tenor saxophone; Scott Robinson, bass saxophone, C-melody saxophone, tenor saxophone; Chuck Wilson, alto saxophone; Joel Hellony, trombone; Howard Alden, guitar, banjo; Dick Hyman, piano; Peter Washington, bass; David Ostwald, tuba; Joe Ascione, drums. Randy Sandke introduces the Bix Beiderbecke selections on the first half of the concert. Track 1: Rehearsal - Stampede; The Jive Don't Come From Kokomo. Concert (begins at 10:50)- Randy Sandke introduction; No One Knows What It's All About; Play It, Red; Lily; Did You Mean It; Stampede; Singin' the Blues; Singin' the Blues (recording played for audience); Thinkin' of Bix (Dick Hyman solo); Betcha I Getcha; Cloudy. George Avakian introduces the Louis Armstrong selections on the second half of the concert. Papa What You Are Trying to Do to Me I've Been Doing It for Years (beginning is cut off); When You Leave Me Alone to Pine; Drop That Sack; Weather Bird; The Jive Don't Come From Kokomo; Beyond a Shadow of Doubt; Mr. Jackson from Jacksonville, Got What It Takes/I Need Your Kind of Lovin', Tiger Rag, closing comments, Happy Birthday. A recording made by the researcher and collector Brad Kay, sent to Avakian and Randy Sandke. Kay contends that Bix Beiderbecke's voice can be heard on takes of Beiderbecke recordings on the Gennett label. Kay speaks, and plays high-quality transfers of the music. Includes Tiger Rag, Susie (takes A and B), Sensation, Lazy Daddy, Big Box, Tia Juana, I'm Glad, and Flock O'Blues. See the insert file from a written note to Avakian and Sandke. New York and Company program on WNYC-AM, hosted by Leonard Lopate. Guests are Hoagy Bix Carmichael and George Avakian, discussing Carmichael and the Beiderbecke/Armstrong program at the JVC Festival. Unidentified organist, tenor saxophone, and drums, with guest vocalist Irene Reid, in a club performance. Unidentified, unidentified, unidentified, Secret Love (with Irene Reid), I Got It Bad/I'll Be Seeing You (with Irene Reid), Happiness is a Thing Called Joe (with Irene Reid), unidentified blues. The tape was labeled "Freddie's Part II." April fool's edition. The Rollins recordings strongly represent Avakian's work with the saxophonist at RCA records, and immediately before, encompassing studio and live recordings. Nesuhi Ertegun of Atlantic Records produced these recordings without Rollins's permission, before Avakian signed Rollins to RCA. Ertegun later gave the tapes to Avakian. They were never issued. Rollins, tenor saxophone, with Jim Hall, guitar; Bob Cranshaw, bass; and Walter Perkins, drums. Stompin' at the Savoy, Where or When, I'm Old Fashioned (trio with Hall only), Three Little Words. Without A Song, Polkadots and Moonbeams (Jim Hall trio), St. Thomas, It Could Happen To You. Will You Still Be Mine, Goodbye, I'll Be Seeing You. There Will Never Be Another You, Love Letters, Three Little Words, I'm Old Fashioned, Sonnymoon for Two. Without A Song, Where Or When, Stompin' At The Savoy. Oleo, Love Love Away, Without A Song. Polkadots and Moonbeams (Jim Hall trio), Three Little Words. Will You Still Be Mine, I'm Old Fashioned (Jim Hall trio). St. Thomas, In A Sentimental Mood, Sonnymoon for Two (out theme). Oleo, There Will Never Be Another You. In some cases the excerpts have better sound quality than the full recordings above Three Little Words, In A Sentimental Mood, Sonnymoon For Two (out theme). The first track is from unidentified date. The second two are from December 16. St. Thomas. Oleo. Rollins with Don Cherry, trumpet; Henry Grimes or Bob Cranshaw, bass;, and Billy Higgins, drums. Someday Soon, Alexander's Ragtime Band, There's No Place Like Home. The performances segue into each other. Lover. After You've Gone, Oleo. Bob Cranshaw is on bass. In My Solitude. All the Things You Are, The Way You Look Tonight. Rollins and Hawkins, tenor saxophone, with Paul Bley, piano; Henry Grimes, bass; and Roy McCurdy, drums. Rollins with Jim Hall, guitar; Bob Cranshaw, bass; and Ben Riley or Harry T. Saunders, drums. Only takes 6, 11, and 13 are complete. With Harry T. Saunders, drums. Will You Still Be Mine (2 takes). Will You Still Be Mine (takes 5 and 4), The Things I Love (takes 11, 8, 9, and unnumbered take). Day In Day Out, God Bless The Child, (2 takes), Without A Song. Day In Day Out (takes 6-7). John S. (take 11 (twice), unnumbered take), Without A Song (issued take), Day In Day Out (unnumbered take). If Ever I Would Leave You (four takes). Rollins with Jim Hall, guitar; Bob Cranshaw, bass; Ben Riley, bass; Denis Charles, Frank Charles, and Willie Rodriguez, percussion. If Ever I Would Leave You (take C); Gone With the Wind. Avakian later said that take 5 of Brazil on this recording (never issued) was the best he had ever heard Rollins play in a recording studio. Brazil, take 5. Sand In My Shoes (Takes 10-12. Take 12 has the last chorus of take 11 instead of 12, spliced). In between is the 8th through 55th bars of take 12, inclusive. Rollins with Jim Hall, guitar, Bob Cranshaw, bass, and Ben Riley, drums. Brazil (edit of take 5), Sand In My Shoes (take 10). Rollins with Coleman Hawkins, tenor saxophone; Paul Bley, piano; Bob Cranshaw or Henry Grimes, bass; and Roy McCurdy, drums. The Way You Look Tonight (take 1), Three Little Words (five takes). Three Little Words (five takes, with studio conversation). Rehearsal: unidentified, All the Things You Are. Henry Grimes on bass. Blues (takes 1-2), Summertime (rehearsal and takes 1- 2). Satin Doll (rehearsal and take 1). All The Things You Are, Lover Man, Yesterdays, The Way You Look Tonight. Lover Man (multiple takes), Yesterdays (take 1). See the insert file for Avakian's notes. Three Little Words (rehearsal and takes 3-5). Just Friends (rehearsal and takes 1-3), Satin Doll (rehearsal). Rollins with Herbie Hancock, piano; Ron Carter, bass; and Roy McCurdy, drums. Now's the Time (rehearsal and takes A-C), St. Thomas (Two rehearsals and takes A-B). Four (Rehearsal, takes A-C, and insert takes 1-4). I Remember Clifford, St. Thomas, 52nd St. Theme, Django. Blue 'N Boogie, Four (take D), Round Midnight, Now's The Time. Trav'lin' Light (take 5). Rollins with Herbie Hancock, piano; Jim Hall, guitar; David Izenzon and Teddy Smith, bass; Stu Martin, drums. Rollins with Jim Hall, guitar; Bob Cranshaw, bass; Mickey Roker, drums. Deep In A Dream, Little Boy Blue. Long Ago And Far Away (takes 10-12, with studio conversation), The Masquerade Waltz (rehearsal and take 1-2), Love Walked In (rehearsal and take 1). See the insert file. Love Walked In (rehearsal and takes 3-8). Love Letters (takes 1-2), Love Walked In, Long Ago and Far Away (takes 1-9). Rollins with Jim Hall, guitar; Bob Cranshaw, bass; and Mickey Roker, drums. My Ship, Trav'lin' Light, Love Letters, Trav'lin' Light (takes 1 and 2). I Like the Likes of You (take 2, July 9, with Bob Cranshaw, bass; and Mickey Roker, drums), Winter Wonderland (July 2, with Herbie Hancock, Bob Cranshaw, and Mickey Roker), Masquerade (June 26, with Jim Hall, guitar; Bob Cranshaw, bass; and Mickey Roker, drums), unidentified, My One and Only Love (take 4, July 2). Rollins with Herbie Hancock, piano; Bob Cranshaw, bass; and Mickey Roker, drums. It Could Happen to You (takes 1-7). It Could Happen to You (fragmentary take, and full take), My One and Only Love (take 1). See the insert file for more details. My One and Only Love (takes 4-7 (the issued version was take 4)), Something to Remember You By (rehearsal and takes 1-2), When You Wish Upon a Star (rehearsal). When You Wish Upon a Star (rehearsal and takes 1-2), which segues into Winter Wonderland (rehearsal and takes 3-7. Winter Wonderland (take 8 (issued)), When You Wish Upon a Star (takes 3-5). When You Wish Upon a Star (unnumbered take, take 6). Love Walked In (remake take 8), When I Fall In Love (takes 2 and 3), Autumn Nocturne (takes 1, 1F, and 2-3), I Like the Likes of You (take 1). Rollins with Bob Cranshaw, bass; Mickey Roker, drums. Nothing Ever Changes, Long Ago and Far Away, Look for the Silver Lining. Winter Wonderland. Candidates for inclusion on the album. Trav'lin' Light (complete take of issued version), Long Ago and Far Away (issued version), Sand In Your Shoes, Three Little Words (take 3 and unnumbered take). Will You Still Be Mine (2 takes), Day In Day Out. Day In Day Out, Love Letters (issued version), My Ship (issued version), Little Boy Blue, Nothing Ever Changes. Trav'lin' Light, Nothing Ever Changes, My Ship, Love Letters, Long Ago and Far Away, It Could Happen To You (two versions). When I Fall in Love (take 2), My One and Only Love, Autumn Nocturne, Medley: I'll Be Seeing You/Night and Day, Day In Day Out. Possibly for Magnetic Rag (take 5, CO 51975), Maple Leaf Rag (2 takes, CO 51976), The Entertainer (take 5, CO 51977), Elite Syncopation (take 4FF, CO 51978), Rose Leaf Rag (take 2F, CO 51979), Weeping Willow Rag (take 5, CO 51980), Fig Leaf Rag (take 1, CO 51981), Original Rags (takes 2 and 3F, CO 51982). Copies of notes written on the tape box are in the insert file. Some of These Days (take 3), 12th Street Rag (takes 3 and 4), Melancholy (take 3), Dardanella (take 1), Darktown Strutters Ball (take 1), St. Louis Blues (take 1), Hyacinth (take 2), Lost (take 1), Ballin' the Jack (take 2), Curse of the Aching Heart (takes 1 and 4). Some of These Days recorded September 14, all others on September 21. Charles J. Catania, recording engineer. Good Gravy Rag (take 7), Black and White Rag (take 7), 12th Street Rag (take 7), Cleopatra Rag (take 13), Meadowlark Rag (take 6 and 7?), Meadowlark Rag, Ragtime Nightingale (take 11), Grace and Beauty Rag (take 2), Hyacinth Rag (take 3). Perfect Rag (take 2), Pastime Rag No. 1 (take 3), Pastime Rag No. 2 (take 3FF), Pastime Rag No. 3 (take 3), Pastime Rag No. 4 (take 4), Pastime Rag No. 5 (take 3), Perfect Rag (take 4F), Perfect Rag (take 5), Weary Blues (take 3). See also notes in the insert file. Pastime Rag, multiple takes. Grace and Beauty (take 3), 12th Street Rag (takes 2 and 3), Black and White (takes 2 and 3), Perfect Rag (take X), Black and White (take X), Grace and Beauty (take X), Perfect Rag (take double X), ending of Weary Blues. Weary Blues (2 takes), Fingerbreaker (takes 2-6), Grace and Beauty (2 takes). Fingerbreaker (takes 1-4), Pastime Rag No. 2 (take 3), Weary Blues (take 3), Grace and Beauty (takes 1-2). Multiple takes of Pastime Rag, Weary Blues, and Perfect Rag. Fingerbreaker (take 7), First Step Rag (take 4). Fingerbreaker (takes 5-6). Euphonic Sounds (take 3), Bowery Buck (takes 2-3), Elite Syncopation (takes 3-4), Ragtime Nightingale (takes 5-6), Black and White (takes 3-6), Russian Rag (takes 5-6), Bohemia Rag (takes 3-5). Bowery Buck (take 1), Elite Syncopation (takes 1-2), Ragtime Nightingale (takes 1-3), Black and White (takes 1-2), Russian Rag (takes 3-4), Bohemia Rag (takes 1-2), Pork and Beans (take 3), Euphonic Sounds (take 2). Pork and Beans (2 takes); Euphonic Sounds. Bohemia Rag (take 6), Ragtime Nightingale (takes 8-9), Bohemia Rag (take 7), Russian Rag (take 8). Pork and Beans (takes 4-5), Euphonic Sounds (takes 4-5), Bowery Buck (takes 4-5), Elite Syncopation (takes 4-6), Ragtime Nightingale (take 7), Black and White (take 8), Russian Rag (take 7). Track 1: Six unidentified selections. Track 2: Four unidentified selections. Everybody's Step, Carolina in the Morning, Back in Your Own Back Yard, Ain't She Sweet, Shine On Harvest Moon, Dardenella, Old Piano Roll Blues, Kicking Up the Charleston (Wall Rose original), When the Leaves Come Tumbling Down, Side By Side, Bye Bye Blackbird. Rose, piano; Milt Russo, drums. Hal McIntyre, engineer. A letter from Rose to Avakian discussing the tape is in the inserts file. Unidentified drummer. Ragtime Nightingale (takes 5 and 6), unidentified, Hyacinth Rag (takes 1-3), Ragtime Nightingale (takes 1-3), Good Gravy (takes 1-2), Euphonic Sounds (take 1). Avakian's notes on this recording session are in the insert file. Euphonic Sounds (takes 2, 4, and 5), Hyacinth Rag (takes 4-6), Good Gravy (takes 3-4), Ragtime Nightingale (take 4). A BBC Radio 3 documentary about Russell. Includes commentary from Dan Morgenstern, George Avakian, and others. See also Vikharieff, Yuri. A Georgian jazz group from Tbilisi, playing untitled music for a theatre performance. George Garanian Quartet: Garanian, alto saxophone; Nikolai Gromin, guitar; Aold Satanovsky, bass; Alexandr Goretkin, drums: Hello, Ivan! (by Nikolai Gromin). Performed at the Third Moscow Jazz Festival, May 23, 1966. German Lukjanov Trio: Lukjanov, flugelhorn; Leonid Chizhik, piano; Vladimir Vasilkov, drums: Prayer; Country's Marriage; and Fairy Day (all composed by German Lukjanov, recorded July 6, 1966. German Lukjanov Duo: Lukjanov, piano, and Vladimir Vasilkov, drums: Mather (by German Lukjanov, recorded February 6, 1966. German Lukjanov Quartet: Lukjanov, flugelhorna and piano; Alfred Grigorovich, bass; Valeriy Bagirian, drums: Nanushka the Fool (by German Lukjanov). German Lukjanov Trio: Lukjanov, trumpet; Alfred Grigorovich, bass; Mikhail Terentjev, piano: Ha Ohou Hore YepeB Bepeboyky (by German Lukjanov). See also the insert file, which lists more song titles and performers not heard on the recording. Gerasimov - tenor saxophone, soprano saxophone, flute, and compositions and arrangements. Track 1: St. Lucy; Come To My Dreams; Midnight Samba; For You; Vinca; More Rome; Snow Trace; Trocadero, In Commemoration of Summer; Where Are You? Track 2: Peasant Gires; Bambu Dance; Morning Song; Springing Autumn; Forest Tavern; Breeze and I; Duke; Noon. All published by Anahid Music (BMI), except For You and Breeze and I (published by GEMA). Recorded in Leningrad. Tracks 1-3 by Goldstain-Nosov Quintet (Goldstain, alto saxophone and Nosov, trumpet): Madrigal N.Y., Bye Bye Blackbird, Blue Chord Blues. Tracks 4-6 feature a big band with Goldstain and Nosov: Take the A Train, It So Wonderful Work, Where's Charlie?, Lover Man, Walkin'. See the insert file for more information. A Melody records release. David Golostchokin, trumpet, violin, and tenor saxophone; Elvira Trafova, vocals; rhythm section is unidentified. Live performances. Track 1: Just Friends, My Melancholy Baby, After You've Gone, Watch What Happens, I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself A Letter, Mood Indigo, Lullaby of Broadway, Fascinating Rhythm, unidentified. Track 2: Unidentified, unidentified, How High the Moon, In A Sentimental Mood, unidentified. The first selection is the tune Lazy Bug, performed by the Charlie Barnet Orchestra (commercially-released), followed by a rehearsal of the Oleg Lundstrem Orchestra playing the same tune. A Georgian pianist. Ramishvili with Pavle Kvachadze, bass, and George Salagashvili, drums. Track 1: Alone With Myself (Z. Ramishvili); On Green Dolphin Street (Kaper/Washington). Track 2: Beautiful Love (Victor Young); Nefertiti (Wayne Shorter). Track 1: Tuliakov, an alto saxophonist from Moscow, 23 years old at the time of recording, playing unidentified titles with keyboard, bass, and drums. Track 2: Unidentified pop music. Vapirov, saxophones, and Tavitian, piano. Recorded in Moscow. Two tracks, no titles identified. Kondakow (a group consisting of alto saxophone, piano, bass and drums, musicians unidentified): Unidentified, There Will Never Be Another You, Mr. P.C., Unidentified, Autumn Leaves. Unidentified piano trio: Two unidentified selections. Live performances by unidentified bands playing in traditional jazz and swing styles. Seven Dixie Lads from Leningrad - three unidentifed selections performed live, interspersed with an unidentified piano trio. Track 1: An ensemble of alto saxophone, trombone, piano, bass, and drums playing in the style of the Miles Davis Birth of the Cool recordings (three selections). Fourth selection: Straight No Chaser, with group of alto saxophone, trumpet, trombone, baritone saxophone, piano, bass, and drums. Track 2: Same group (unidentified selection). Second selection is an unidentified piano trio. Third is the same ensemble (with alto and baritone saxes and trumpet). Last selection is The Song is You, performed by alto saxophone and rhythm section. Track 1: Musician introductions, followed by unidentified titles. Track 2: Conclusion of live recording, followed by a commercially-released Art Blakey recording. See also the Re-Discovered Music of Louis Armstrong and Bix Beiderbecke. An undated live performance in an unidentified venue. Track 1: When It's Sleepytime Down South; Mabel's Dream, Sugar Foot Stomp; Butter and Egg Man; Cornet Chop Suey; Wild Man Blues; Potato Head Blues; Muskrat Ramble; Sandy Blues; Struttin' With Some Barbeque. Track 2: Basin Street Blues; Weatherbird; Medley; Swing That Music; If I Could Be With You; Mack the Knife; Ole Miss, When It's Sleepytime Down South. Sandke, trumpet; with Byron Stripling, trumpet; Kenny Davern, clarinet; Joel Helleny, trombone; David Ostwald, tuba; Greg Cohen, bass; Mark Shane, piano; and Joe Ascione, drums. A demo of a song written and performed by Sappe. Songs written and performed by Saroyan. Sung by Christine and Kathleen Saroyan. Ssung by Christine and Kathleen Saroyan. Saroyan singing songs along with a player piano, with his commentary. Avakian noted this was an audition. I'll Take Care Of You, Almost Persuaded, How Do I Know. All have multiple takes. Content starts at 00:05:17. Preceded by an unidentified song (not by Sattin). Almost Persuaded (takes 6,7), How Do I Know (takes 1-7). Mono masters. A CBS radio program featuring a house band led by Leith Stevens, along with guest artists including Tommy Dorsey, Raymond Scott, Wingy Manone, Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Claude Thornhill, and others.. Some of this material may have been commercially-released. Leith Stevens Band: Scattin' at the Kit Kat, You're Not the Kind. Adele Girard: Stardust. Tommy Dorsey Band: Orchi Chornya, Jammin'. Redd Evans: Adam's Apple, Sweet Sue. Raymond Scott Quintet: The Girl with the Light Blue Hair, Powerhouse. Leith Stevens Band: By Heck. Leith Stevens Band: The Jazzeroo. Mannie Klein: Tiger Fantasy. Leith Stevens Band: Too Marvelous For Words. Onyx Trio (Teddy Bunn, Leo Watson, and Bobby Henderson): Baby Won't You Please Come Home, Handful of Keys. Leith Stevens Band: Satan Takes a Holiday. Sue Mitchell: They All Laughed. Raymond Scott Orchestra: Twilight In Turkey. Leith Stevens Band: Waddlin' at the Waldorf, Chicken and Waffles. Leith Stevens Band: Hallelujah. Joe Sodja: Nagasaki, I Never Knew. Leith Stevens Band: Caravan. Raymond Scott Quintet: Girl With the Light Blue Hair, The Toothache. Wingy Manone: Isle of Capri. Leith Stevens Band: The You and Me That Used To Be. Wingy Manone: Swingin' at the Hickory House. Leith Stevens Band: Crazy Rhythm. Leith Stevens Band: How Could You. Tommy Dorsey Orchestra: unidentified. Tommy Dorsey, Joe Bushkin, Mickey Bloom: Pagan Love Song. Art Gentry: Slap That Bass. Leith Stevens Band: Ostrich Walk. Joe Bushkin: Singin' the Blues, They All Laughed. Bunny Berigan: I Can't Get Started, You Can't Run Away From Love, Frankie and Johnny. Leith Stevens Band: Wang Wang Blues. Leith Stevens band: Pick Yourself Up. Willie "The Lion" Smith: Passionette, I'm All Out of Breath. Leith Stevens band: Satan Takes a Holiday. Sharkey Bonano and his Sharks of Rhythm: Jazz Me Blues, Livery Stable Blues. Leith Stevens: The You and Me That Used To Be. Joe Sodja: The Sheik/Who's Sorry Now, Tiger Rag. Leith Stevens band: Scattin at the Kit Kat. Leith Stevens Band: Panamania. Duke Ellington, Cootie Williams, Barney Bigard, Harry Carney, and Juan Tizol: Frolic Sam. Caspar Reardon: Ain't Misbehavin'. Leith Stevens Band: Swing Swing Mother-in-Law. Adrian Rollini Trio: Rebound. Kay Thompson: It Had to Be You. Bunny Berigan: Am I Blue. Raymond Scott Quintet: Powerhouse. Glen Gray: I Got Rhythm, The Devil is Afraid of Music. Les Lieber: Crazy Rhythm, Nobody's Sweetheart. Quintet of the Hot Club of France: Djangology, Limehouse Blues, Breakup. Leith Stevens Band: The Swing Session Is Called to Order (by Larry Clinton). Claude Thornhill demonstration of swing. Benny Goodman Trio: There's a Lull In My Life. Benny Goodman Quartet: Nagasaki. Kay Thompson Group: Whoa Babe. Lee Stevens: Caravan. Carl Kress and Dick McDonough: Chicken a la Swing, I Know That You Know. Raymond Scott Quintet: Twilight In Turkey. Jam session with Claude Thornhill, Johnny Williams, Dave Harris, Carl Kress, Hank Ross, Dave Wade, Wally Gross, Pete Pumiglio, Raymond Scott, and Lou Shuby: Three Little Words, China Boy. Sirius Sessions program on Sirius radio. The music is interspersed with conversation about the museum and about Duke Ellington. Harlem Air Shaft, Satin Doll, C-Jam Blues, Things Ain't What They Used To Be, Come Sunday, Mood Indigo, It Don't Mean A Thing. Loren Schoenberg, piano, tenor saxophone; Jay Brandford, baritone saxophone and clarinet; Jack Stuckey, alto saxophone, clarinet; Dan Block tenor sax, clarinet; Virgil Jones and Jemani Smith, trumpets; Mike Fahn, trombone; Jason Brown, drums; Steve Kirby, bass. See also Orchestra U.S.A. A piece for orchestra, jazz group, and narrator. Narration written by Nat Hentoff. Don Ellis, trumpet; J.R. Monterose, tenor saxophone; Eric Dolphy, alto saxophone; Ron Carter, bass; and Sammy "Sticks" Evans, drums, with the National Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Gunther Schuller. Ray Reinhardt, narrator. Schuller conducting, with introduction and narration by Leonard Bernstein. Jazz combo: Richard Davis, bass; Don Ellis, trumpet; Benny Golson, tenor saxophone; Eric Dolphy, alto saxophone; Joseph Cocuzzo, drums. An incomplete audience recording with an unidentified narrator. An incomplete performance (first 4:40 only). Copy of original. Tape box noted "Schuller trio." Bassists: Orin O'Brien, Fred Zimmerman, Robert Gladstone and Alvin Brehm. Multiple takes with discussion. The quartet is followed by an arrangement by Schuller of Third movement only, unidentified personnel. Recorded at the Whitney Museum, New York City. See also the Interviews in subseries IV.B. Veena (5:05), Mridagan (Adi Ta Lu, played by Ramrad Easwaran, 9:30), Kanjira (6:30), Veena (7:45), Alapa, Raga Nataperev (Ravi Shankar with Kishan Maraj, tabla (21:15). See a copy of the tape box and an insert (unrelated to this recording) in the insert file. The same tune (by Spencer Williams), recorded by different bands Track 1: Red Nichols (1930); Ted Lewis (1928); McKinney's Cotton Pickers (1928); Don Redman (1938). Track 2: Original Wolverines (1927); New Orleans Rhythm Kings (1923); Pete Kelly Big Seven (1958); Anglo-American Alliance (1967). The More I See You; Angel Eyes; Nica's Dream. Recorded at Duquesne University Studios, Pittsburgh. Skala, vocals, with John D'Amico, piano; Marty Ashby, guitar; Virgil Walters, bass; and Rodger Ryan, drums. Recorded in Moscow during the Benny Goodman tour of the Soviet Union. A CBS network production. Track 1: Old Gold Cigarettes Songs By Sinatra radio program, with guest Tommy Dorsey (October 24, 1945). Track 2: Songs By Sinatra, with guests The Andrews Sisters (November 14, 1945). April in Paris; Fever; I've Got My Love To Keep Me Warm; Whisper Not. Sokoloff, vocals, with Kenny Barron, piano; Benny Golson, tenor saxophone; Ron Carter, bass; and Marvin "Smitty" Smith, drums. See also Konitz, Lee. Some of this material was released on the RCA album At Newport '63. With Teddy Kotick, bass, and Paul Motian, drums. Introduction by Willis Conover, Special Club, Suite Pour Une Frise, No Smoking. Poinciana, Nuages, Suite Pour Une Frise. Stella By Starlight, What Is This Thing Called Love, Round Midnight, Boplicity, All God's Children Got Rhythm. I've Got Rhythm (take 4). Caravan (Juan Tizol), Little Wing (Jimi Hendrix), Sword of Whispers (Joe Locke), MRC (François Moutin), Someday My Prince Will Come (Larry Morey, Frank Churchill), Istanbul (Lew Soloff, Rob Mounsey), All Blues (Miles Davis). Lew Soloff, trumpet, piccolo trumpet; Joe Locke, vibraphone; François Moutin, bass. Recorded by Rob Treloar. A group called "The Word." Song Raga; Raga; Raga; Minot Raga; Raga; Solo Steel Guitar; Solo Classical Guitar. Peter Walker, guitar; Monte Dunn, guitar; Jeremy Steig, flute; David Shilman, Arabic and Indian clay drums; Bob Amker, tabla; Jerry Burnham, bass; unidentified vocalist. See the insert file for more information. This recording was given to Avakian as an audition. Al Sudhalter was the father of trumpeter/writer Richard Sudhalter. Herb Marsh Orchestra (around May 18, 1932): Wabash Blues; Lovable; Sing A New Song; Got a Date with and Angel (soloists: Andy Ferretti, trumpet; Al Sudhalter, alto saxophone). WNAC Jam Session: Is That Religion. Al Sudhalter with Harry Rodgers, organ: Sylvia. CBC Symphony Orchestra, Victor Feldbrill, assistant conductor. With Bernie Piltch, alto saxophone; Ron Collier, trombone; Ed Bickert, guitar; Carne Bray, bass; and Ron Rully, drums. Szabo, guitar and vocals: Child's Play (words by Richard Benter); Child's Play (words by Albert Stinson); I Mustn't Think of You (words D. Laird); Try;, Slave (words by Richard Benter). Fu (composed for 12 instruments); String Quartet No. 1. Further credits are in Chinese (see the insert file). See also the insert file for the Charles Campbell acetates under Basie, Count, which has a . See the insert file for 407370 for a 1996 letter from Campbell to Avakian which accompanied the tape and has the story of the recording. A tape copy of an acetate recording made by art collector Charles Campbell at a house party in Los Angeles. Tatum, piano, with Willie Smith, alto saxophone; Trummy Young, trombone; and Slam Stewart, bass. Track 1: I Got Rhythm; an unidentified person telling a joke. Track 2: An alternative transfer from the same acetate of I Got Rhythm. Two tracks. Unidentified titles. Allison, guitar. The band features Allison's son, Bernard, as musical director and vocalist. No other personnel are identified. Blakey's 70th birthday celebration. Blakey, drums, with Dale Barlow and Javon Jackson, tenor saxophone; Brian Lynch, trumpet; Frank Lacy, trombone; Geoff Keezer, piano; Essiet Essiet, bass. Jackie McLean (alto saxophone), Curtis Fuller (trombone), and Benny Golson (tenor saxophone) guest on the last five tracks. Birdlike (Freddie Hubbard), Love Walked In (arranged by Javon Jackson), Monk's Mood, Let's Call This, I Get A Kick Out of You, The Theme/personnel announcement, A La Mode, Old Folks, Blues March, Happy Birthday, Moanin'. Harris, tenor saxophone, and McCann, piano, with unidentified other musicians. Track 1: Listen Here; unidentified blues (vocals by Harris); The Morning Song (vocals by McCann); unidentified (beginning). Track 2: Unidentified (conclusion); Eddie Harris solo piece; I Got Me a Lady - She Drives a Little Blue Volkswagen Car (vocals by McCann); I Need Some Money (vocals by Harris and McCann); solo piano piece (beginning only, cut off). The two different versions of Hubbard's performance have varying sound quality, but it is unclear which is closest to being the original recording. Hubbard, trumpet, with Don Braden tenor sax; Benny Green, piano; Jeff Chambers, bass; and Carl Allen, drums. Bolivia (Cedar Walton), Delphia, Life Light (beginning). Track 1: Bolivia (Cedar Walton), Delphia. Track 2: Life Light (beginning). Life Light (conclusion), Round Midnight, Superblue (Bernard Ighner, cut off). Life Light (conclusion), Round Midnight, Superblue (Bernard Ighner, cut off). Drew, piano, and Pedersen, bass. Track 1: In Your Own Sweet Way, It Might As Well Be Spring, Hushabye, Samba Petite (beginning). Track 2: Samba Petite (conclusion), Yesterdays, Bluesology, Danish Folk Tune, My Shining Hour, St. Thomas (cut off). Smith, organ and vocals, with Terry Evans, guitar and vocals; Ricky Woodard, tenor saxophone; Frank Wilson, drums; and Barbara Morrison, vocals. Track 1: Organ Grinder Swing; Chicken Shack; Midnight Special; Georgia On My Mind (Terry Evans vocal, beginning). Track 2: Georgia On My Mind (conclusion); Ain't She Sweet; Eight Counts for Rita; Farther Up the Road (Barbara Morrison, vocals). Track 1: Don't Go To Strangers; In the Evening (When the Sun Goes Down); Sonnymoon for Two; It's All Right With Me; unidentified blues (beginning). Track 2: Unidentified blues (conclusion); Got My Mojo Workin'; Amazing Grace. The sound quality of these excerpts is better than the full versions above, and some are in stereo whereas some full versions are in mono. The Mingus Dynasty and Sun Ra recordings appear only on these excerpts. Mingus Dynasty: Jon Faddis and Jack Walrath trumpets; John Hicks, piano; Peter Washington, bass; Victor Lewis, drums. No personnel available for the Sun Ra Universal Arkestra, apart from Sun Ra, keyboards and leader, and probably John Gilmore, tenor saxophone; Pat Patrick, baritone saxophone; and Knoel Scott, alto saxophone. Templeton, piano, with Joel Forbes, bass, and Tom Bailey, drums. Track 1: Raincheck; Bess You Is My Woman; Countdown; Temps Boogie; Guess I'll Hang My Tears Out To Dry; Easy To Love; Just One of Those Things; Please Don't Talk About Me When I'm Gone; Grandpa's Spells. Track 2: Blue and Boogie. Terry, trumpet, with Willie Dennis, trombone; Jerry Dodgion, alto saxophone; Lou Levy, piano; Art Davis, bass; and Mel Lewis, drums. This recording was on a cassette tape copied from the lost original open-reel tape. Track 1: Take the A Train; In A Mellotone; Stardust (fades out early); Things Ain't What They Used to Be. Track 2: Mean to Me; How High the Moon (cuts off early); A Night in Tunisia; Just Squeeze Me; Billie's Bounce. Straight No Chaser; Perdido; The Theme (cuts off early). An Armenian composer. Track 1: Bill Mayhugh, a jazz radio DJ in Washington, D.C., talks about Thomas and introduces the selections. That Old Black Magic, If I Had You, Now That I Need You, Suzanne, A Foggy Day, Then I'll Be Tired of You, Route 66. See also the Video Recordings. A television program hosted by Jackie Gleason (audio only). Starring Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Dizzy Gillespie, George Shearing, the Dukes of Dixieland, Gene Krupa and Jo Jones, Roy Eldrige, Bobby Hackett, Coleman Hawkins, Milt Hinton, and Marty Napoleon. Track 1: Take the A Train, Rockin' in Rhythm (Ellington band); Now You Has Jazz, Tiger Rag (Armstrong band); Slide Frog Slide (Dukes of Dixieland); unidentified (Armstrong band); St. Louis Blues, Umbrella Man (Gillespie band with Louis Armstrong); I Let A Song Go Out of My Heart (Rutha Ray with the Ellington band); Sophisticated Lady, Things Ain't What They Used to Be (Ellington band). Track 2: Unidentified, The Thrill is Gone, I Hear Music (Dakota Staton with George Shearing), Easy to Remember (George Shearing), jam session: Body and Soul, Perdido. A Japanese trumpeter specializing in Louis Armstrong's music. West End Blues, For Satch, Wild Man Blues, King Porter Stomp, Home, Mahogany Hall Stomp. The first three selections are Yoshio Toyama and the Dixie Saints, 1978. The fourth and fifth are Toyama (trumpet) and Don Ewell (piano), 1975. Mohagany Hall Stomp is Toyama and the Dixie Saints with Don Ewell, 1975. Other personnel are unknown. West End Blues; For Satch (a Toyama original in the style of the Hot 5); Wild Man Blues (recorded in Japan, 1978); Moon River; Uncle Satchmos's Lullaby (recorded in Japan, 1997). See the insert file. A recorded birthday greeting from Yoshio and Keiko Toyama. St. James Infirmary 1928, I Can't Give You Anything But Love 1929, Ain't Misbehavin' 1929, St. Louis Blues 1929, Dinah 1930, Tiger Rag 1930, East St. Louis Toodle-Oo (Duke Ellington 1927), Rockin' In Rhythm (Duke Ellington 1931), Shine 1931, Dear Old Southland 1929, Dinah, Song of Arabia, That's OK, Trumpet and a Girl, Chinatown My Chinatown 1931, On the Sunny Side of the Street 1934, Final Jam: I'll Be Glad When You're Dead You Rascal You. Yoshio and Keiko Toyama, with Jimmie Smith, drums. Recorded live in Tokyo, Japan. At Atene Francais Cultural Center Hall. Part one (musical arrangements by Yoshio Toyama): Dinah, I'm in the Mood for Love, Red Sails in the Sunset, Ol' Man Mose, When the Saints Go Marching In, Swing That Music. Part two (Louis Armstrong House Museum Charts): I Can't Give You Anything But Love, I'm Confessin', Struttin' With Some Barbeque, When It's Sleepy Time Down South, Lazy River, I'll Be Glad When You're Dead You Rascal You, C'est Si Bon (arranged by Roger Neuman). See the insert file for more information. An orchestral/jazz band combined piece, by an unknown composer. A recording session for the trombonists Bob Brookmeyer, Jimmy Cleveland, and Frank Rosolino, featuring arrangements by J.J. Johnson and Marty Paich. With Bart Varsalona, bass trombone; Jack Jones, piano; Milt Hinton, bass; and Osie Johnson, drums. Music for piano composed and performed by Trythall. Track 1: Toccata; Arabesque; Fantasy. Track 2 Solo; Insieme; Coming Home. Recorded at Teatro Olimpico, Rome, Italy. A Russian pianist and jazz journalist. A group of trumpet, alto saxophone, piano, bass, and drums, playing in the style of Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers: Unidentified, Bye Bye Blackbird, unidentified. Big band: Take the A Train, unidentified, unidentified, Lover Man, Walkin'. Recorded in Leningrad. No personnel besides Vikharieff are identified. Vikharieff with an unidentified bassist and drummer. Round Midnight, unidentified. Unidentified, A Night in Tunisia, unidentified, unidentified (featuring an alto saxophonist). Vikharieff, piano, with bass, drums, and saxophone. Five selections. The second one is Lover Man. Take the A Train, two unidentified titles, Lover Man (with alto saxophone soloist), Walkin', unidentified, Bye Bye Blackbird, unidentified. Besides Vikharieff on piano, the personnel are unidentified. Rio De Los Swingers, Requiem for George, Alandee, Screamin', Goodbye Tad, Flamenco Waltz. Simian, Azul, Loose, Waltz for Debra, 68 AD, Whole Steps. R. Grehan, conductor. Two tracks. Unidentified selections. An Argentine jazz pianist and composer. Poor Butterfly, Where Or When, Rhapsody In Blue, What Is This Thing Called Love. Electronic music to accompany a show at the Morrison Planetarium at the California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, created by Jordan Belson and Henry Jacobs. Titles are announced preceding each piece. For more information see the insert file for the radio broadcast below. Music, with Henry Jacobs, narrator, broadcast on WLVL-FM, Louisville, Kentucky. For more information see the insert file. When You Make Love To Me (Don't Make Believe), Get Set (take 5), It All Depends On You. Ward, vocals, with Charlie Shavers, trumpet; George Auld, tenor saxophone; Trummy Young and Rex Peer, trombones; Roy Kral, piano; Steve Jordan, guitar; Israel Crosby, bass; Cozy Cole, drums. Recorded in Chicago. See the insert file for more information. This recording was sent to Avakian by Heinz Baumeister. See the insert file for an accompanying letter from Baumeister with more information. Most tracks have no titles, as they are improvised. Tracks 1-11: Recorded at Webster's home in Copenhagen, 1960s-1970s. Webster plays piano and overdubs piano and percussion on some tracks. Tracks 12-13: Recordings from 1963, with Webster on piano, then on tenor saxophone with Joe Zawinul, piano; Milt Hinton, bass; and Louis Hayes, drums. Tracks 14-15: "Lucidin" broadcast, January 1937, with the Stuff Smith Orchestra. Tracks 16-19: Recorded in Copenhagen, Webster on piano, tenor saxophone, clarinet (track 19 only), and percussion. Track 20: WNEW Sunday Afternoon Swing Club radio broadcast, 1947: The Man I Love, Lady Be Good. Transfers from Lenya's German pressings. WL1003 Seerauber Jenny, WL1003 Surabaya Johnny, WL1002 Surbaya Johny, WL1002 Seerauber Jenny, WL1008 Wie Lange Noch (Cracked Record), WL1008 Wie Lange Noch (Cracked Record), WL1011 Soldatenweb, WL1012 Soldatenweb. Unidentified German male and female singers with piano. Speak Low, Surabaya Johnny, Complainte de la Seine, I'm a Stranger Here Myself, Who Am I?, How Much I Love You, September Song. Lost In the Stars, Lover Man, J'attends un novice, Complainte de la Seine, Surabaya Johnny, Wie Man Sich Bettet. The first 8:12 of the tape is a recording session played at half-speed. The promotional recording of Avakian reading prepared material about the Kurt Weill album follows (multiple takes). Followed by an unidentified big band recording session: Jumpin' With Symphony Sid (takes 1-4), Broadway (take 1). Wellstood, piano, with Davern, soprano saxophone, in a live performance. Unidentified (by Duke Ellington), Sweet Substitute (by Jelly Roll Morton), Shimmy Dance (Shim Me Sha Wabble), Liza (by Eddie Condon), The Viper's Drag (by Fats Waller), So In Love (by Cole Porter), Field Song, Fast as a Bastard (cut off at 39:14 by a separate live recording of an unidentified singer). White, piano and vocals, with Wayne Goins, guitar; and Laymon Jackson, bass. I Didn't Know What Time It Was; The Island; I Thought About You; I'll Never Be the Same. The concert took place almost 50 years to the day after the original Goodman performance. Personnel are not announced, with the exception of Wilber, clarinet; Howard Alden, guitar; and Loren Schoenberg, tenor saxophone. Track 2 (beginning of concert): Don't Be That Way; Wrappin It Up; Sometimes I'm Happy; If Dreams Come True; Original Dixieland Jazz Band One Step; I'm Coming Virginia; When My Baby Smiles At Me; Shine; Blue Reverie; Life Goes To a Party; Body and Soul; China Boy; Honeysuckle Rose DNF; Repeat Honeysuckle Rose short DNF. Track 1: Honeysuckle Rose (end); Isaac Stern and Rachel Edelson speak; Memories of You; Blue Skies; Loch Lamond; Blue Room; Swingtime in the Rockies; Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen. I'm Coming Virginia, The One I Love, Swanee River, September Song, I Don't Stand a Ghost of a Chance With You. Wiley, vocals, with Jimmy McPartland, trumpet; and Marian McPartland, piano. Unidentified bassist on some songs. Recorded at Jack Howe's home in Evanston, Illinois, August 29th: Wiley, vocals, with Jack Howe, clarinet; Spencer Clark, piano; Bud Wilson, trombone; Harry Hammershorn; drums; and Bill Priestley, guitar. Back Home Again in Indiana, Dear Old Daddy, Back in Your Own Backyard, I Can't Give You Anything But Love. Clancey Hayes, vocal, with Spencer Clark (?), piano, recorded at Bill Priestley's home in Park Forest, Illinois, August 30th: Washboard Blues, Sun Valley, Deep Elm, Jolene. See the insert file for more information. Wiley with Clancy Hayes, guitar; Bill Priestley, guitar; Frank Chace, clarinet; and Bud Wilson, trombone. Recorded at the home of Bill Priestley in Park Forest, Illinois. Somebody Loves Me, Save It Pretty Mama, I'd Climb the Highest Mountain, Cottage For Sale, Old Folks, I'm Coming Virginia, Hot House Rose, Back Home Again in Indiana, I'm Coming Virginia. Paul Winter, soprano saxophone; Jerry O'Sullivan, Uilleann pipes; Arto Tunçboyacıyan, percussion; other musicians; and the Forces of Nature Dance Theater Ensemble. Just a Baby in the Eyes of the Lord, unidentified, Soft Comes the Spring, We Ride the Blue Whale, Noah Called the People. Little Christmas Bell, Mary's Little Boy Is Born. Recorded at WCBM for the Chapel at Woodstock. Presumably at the Antibes Jazz Festival. A vocal group singing in French with acoustic guitars and banjo backing. Call and response singing/chanting with woman and children. See the insert file. Irish ballads performed by a band of violin, harp, accordion, and piano. Hewlett, Irish Mary, Swirl of the Sea, Luke Dillon, Frank Palmer, Stockton, Bridget Cruise, We Were So Young, Exwood United, Hartburn Village, Cat in the Window, Orliana, P. Irwin, Winter Waltz. With piano trio. Two takes of piece, one with one clarinet, second is take one with an overdubbed clarinet part. Four orchestral selections. The third is Twinkle Twinkle Little Star. Group of piano, guitar, banjo, bass, and drums. Music is unidentified. Villa-Lobos: Misty, Everything Happens to Me, unidentified, unidentified, Speak Low, Who Can I Turn To, It Could Happen To You, I Remember Clifford. The vocalist is singing in English and French, with jazz rhythm sections and various larger groups. Some are studio recordings, some live recordings, and some sound like demos. Track 1: Unidentified, Red River, Searchin', There's a Grave in Dodge City. Track 2: Unidentifed studio orchestra recording session of easy listening music. Unidentified titles, multiple takes. A vocalist and a quartet of tenor saxophone, piano, bass, and drums. The recording consists only of the saxophone solo section of two different takes of Sophisticated Lady. Track 1: A home family recording, a rehearsal of a female vocalist with a pianist (the vocalist is mostly drowned out by piano), a woman reading a book or story, and Indian music performed on sitar and tabla (this takes up most of the last 40 minutes of track 1). Track 2: A rehearsal of a female vocalist with a pianist (some selections are solo piano). One of the songs is Lilac Wine. Pianist, violinist, and accordionist (or melodica). Multiple unidentified selections. Studio band performing a tune with repeated lyric "freeze." Instrumental No. 1 (2 takes), Instrumental No. 2 (3 takes). In rock and roll style. Guitar, saxophone, piano, bass, and drums. Twelve selections performed by a female vocalist and a traditional jazz group (some songs are instrumentals only). All selections are unidentified. Big Butter and Egg Man (takes 3-4), Wild Man Blues (take 7), Tiger Rag (take 3). Separate unidentified session for vibraphone with small jazz combo begins at 00:27:40 (multiple takes of same piece). Just You Just Me. An unidentified quintet of flugelhorn, tenor saxophone, piano, bass, and drums in a live performance. The tape was labeled "Gerry Mulligan Tentet?" but that is not correct. A soul/funk studio recording, possibly commercially-released. Six unidentified titles. A Quiet Thing; Moment To Moment; The Impossible Dream; unidentified. Performed with piano, guitar, bass, and drum accompaniment. Cozy and Warm (ending), There's No Business Like Show Business, Bongo Beat, Let Us Join Hands. The first track is a song that begins with the words "you asked me if I loved you." The last is Sweet Sue. They are separated by the Sonny Rollins track Without A Song, from the album Dona Dona, Autumn Leaves, unidentified, Sinnerman, The Trees They Grow So High, Nature Boy. The recording is labeled with "Clarence Hayes," but the vocalist is accompanied by piano, not banjo. Track 1: Nothing's Gonna Stop Me Now, I'm Gettin' Ready for Eddie, unidentified, In New Orleans. The rest of track 1 and all of track 2 contains a January 20, 1950 recording of Louis Armstrong with Jack Teagarden and Earl Hines for the radio show "Musical Map of America" that was never broadcast (it has been commercially-issued). Honolulu (male singer), Nickel Under the Foot (female singer). Unidentified titles. Track 1: Keyboards and flute. Track 2: Piano, flute, and bass. An unidentifed album of music in the acid jazz style. A live performance of an unidentified orchestral work with a rhythm section. An unidentified trombone/orchestra performance, followed by a voice doing a recording test, a classical pianist in a home recording, and an unidentified orchestral recording. Track 1: Schoenberg Solo pianist, playing unidentified works. Unidentified modern piano work. A classical pianist playing solo, and with an orchestra. Music is unidentified. Track 1: Blank until about two minutes in. A classical pianist, performing (or possibly recording) an unidentified work (incomplete). Track 2: An unidentified work for bells and percussion. Possibly Maro Ajemian. The pianist may be performing the music of Alan Hovhaness, and the John Cage prepared piano pieces. Possibly William Masselos. The tape alternates between performance excerpts and conversation between the (male) pianist and an unidentified man. The last 1:10 of the tape is a Johnny Mathis recording session. Makin' Whoopee (solo), unidentified, Fascinating Rhythm, unidentified, unidentified, Makin' Whoopee (piano trio), There Will Never Be Another You (trio). Three unidentified selections. The first four minutes are a Paul Desmond recording session, but at a nearly inaudible volume. From 4:44 to the end is an unidentified chamber piece for English Horn and percussion instruments including marimba. Solo stride piano piece. The original tape box was labeled "Aram's See It Now tapes." With guitar, bass, drums, and backing vocals. Multiple takes of two songs. The band is rehearsing or recording Benny Goodman material from the 1930s. Unidentified band with a clarinetist (not Goodman), and female vocalist. A rhythm and blues singer with backing band of saxophone, guitar, bass, drums, with backing singers. I'm Giving Up Happiness (multiple takes), I'll Be Satisfied (multiple takes). Followed by Vic Damone tracks, including Separate Tables (title track from the film of the same name). Two unidentified instrumental tracks. Two instrumental tracks. Soprano saxophone, tenor saxophone, piano, bass, drums, and percussion. Three unidentified performances. A group composed of alto saxophone, guitar, bass, and drums, playing a single through-composed piece. Trumpet, tenor sax, piano, bass, drums. Three selections, with piano trio only on the last one. The tape box has "Davey George" written on it. Unidentified work for piano. Song: I've Got A Right to Sing the Blues. The two tape boxes were marked "K.W." Six titles. All are unidentified, except for the third (My Ship). Six titles, all unidentified except for the last (Speak Low). Track 1: Someone To Watch Over Me, Misty, unidentified. Track 2: Sometimes I'm Happy, My One and Only Love, unidentified, Laura, unidentified blues, The Song is You, Yesterdays. The pianist (possibly Stan Hope, as his name is written on the inside of the tape box) is playing in what sounds like a party or family gathering, with children in the background. Some selections have a bassist as well. The tape originally held a recording of Wynton Kelly students with a track listing, but that information on the outside of the box was partially papered over and none of the listed tracks are on the tape. Recording session. Recording session. Male singer with orchestra. Medley: Lazy River/Sentimental Journey/Rockin' Robin. Three instrumental tracks. The last two are Lloyd's Long Time Baby from the Possibly a film or television soundtrack. Trumpeter, alto saxophonist, and bassist. Studio recording. Three takes of a song featuring a singer with a rock band backing (guitar, bass, organ, drums). A demonstration recording, with two female vocalists and piano, performing multiple songs from a show about a mother and daughter, unknown composers/authors. Possibly Anahid Ajemian. Unidentified works. Two tracks. Track 1: Track 1: Four songs sung in French, a vocal group singing A Night In Tunisia in French, and a piano trio playing two unidentified tunes. Track 2: Piano trio playing unidentified tune. Woman with piano trio: Blue Moon, A Night in Tunisia, Stompin' at the Savoy, unidentified, unidentified. You Better Believe It, Good Things Come To Those Who Wait. This subseries documents the career and life of George Avakian, many of the artists he worked with, Aram Avakian, and other significant figures in and outside of music. It holds a deep set of interviews and oral histories with George Avakian and others; audio memoirs; lectures and panel discussions; home recordings made by Louis Armstrong and the families of George and Aram Avakian; and a variety of other non-music recordings. The subseries is arranged alphabetically by artists or subject. The interviews/oral histories are with George Avakian; Anahid Ajemian; Aram Avakian; Danny Barker (an oral history conducted by Aram Avakian); W.C. Handy; Louis Armstrong; Pops Foster; Dave Brubeck; Miles Davis; Wild Bill Davison; Ravi Shankar; Johnny Mathis; Mahalia Jackson; Dave Brubeck; Benny Goodman; Miriam Makeba; Charles Lloyd; Marty Napolean; John Sanders; Steve Allen; Ingmar Bergman; Marlin Brando; songwriters Alan Jay Lerner, Jule Styne, and Marc Blitzstein (recorded off of a television broadcast); recording engineers William S. Bachman, William Savory, Jack Towers, and Vincent Liebler; writers Ralph Berton, William Saroyan, and Brendan Behan; composer/conductor Pierre Boulez; and photographer Bert Stern. The interviews with the recording engineers pertain to the development of the long-playing 33 1/3 microgroove record; the William Savory interviews also include a nearly three-hour discussion about Benny Goodman, whom Savory knew well. The hour-long interview of Miles Davis was conducted by Avakian in May, 1957, and has never been heard before. See also Eames, JaRon, in videos in subseries IV.C, for brief interviews with other musicians. The interviews of George Avakian include an oral histories conducted by the Oral History of American Music at Yale University and the Smithsonian Institution; The lectures and panel discussions include presentations by or discussions with Avakian at the Newport Jazz Festival; the Music Library Association annual conference; Satchmo Summerfest in New Orleans; meetings of Duke Ellington Societies in the United States and Sweden; the University of California at Los Angeles; the New School; Jersey City University; and Recording Academy events. Other lectures are by Ed Berger of the Rutgers Institute of Jazz Studies; the producer John Hammond; and the author Donald Marquis. The 1953 Louis Armstrong home recordings, which were gifted to Avakian by Armstrong, have been available in part since the 1990s at the Louis Armstrong House Museum, but additional, previously-unheard material was uncovered during the processing of this collection (see the container list for more details). The recordings consist partially of discussion about Armstrong's memoir The home recordings of George and Aram Avakian (dating from the 1950s to the 1970s) mainly feature their children, but also include birthdays, social gatherings, and impromptu musical performances, as well as discussions about family history with Mesrop Avakian (father of George and Aram). The subseries has a set of George Avakian's personal recordings. These include two audio memoirs on specific events in his career; a recording of a Recording Academy luncheon at which Avakian received the organization's Governor's award; and telephone conversations with Charles Lloyd and producer Hank O'Neal (early 1980s), among others. Other content includes unreleased recordings of the comedians Bob Newhart and "Prince" Igor Yahilevich; and documentaries on the producer Jerry Wexler and the Newport Jazz Festival. The subseries also has a set of recordings related to Aram Avakian. These consist of soundtrack material for films Avakian edited or directed, including The Louis Armstrong home recordings contain sexual and scatalogical humor, drug use, and racial language some may find offensive. A radio series about the jobs people have. These informal recordings were made by Louis Armstrong. Armstrong, who had recently finished writing his memoir These recordings contain sexual and scatalogical humor, drug use, and racial language some may find offensive. Side 1 of tape. Louis Armstrong and George Avakian in conversation at Louis Armstrong's home. The bulk of the conversation centers around the manuscript to Armstrong's autobiography, The Louis Armstrong House Museum holds a slightly shorter copy of this recording. Side 2 of tape. Discussion of The Louis Armstrong House Museum holds a longer copy of this recording. This recording is not held by the Louis Armstrong House Museum. Armstrong tells a story about a tour with Illinois Jacquet and Lionel Hampton; Avakian and Armstrong discuss the contents of The two unnumbered tapes below were not dated, but October 29th is the only day among the other tapes when Aram Avakian joined his brother to visit Armstrong, and the conversation follows the same topics. Track 1 (side 1 of tape): The bulk of the side consists of George Avakian's brother, Aram Avakian, taking photos of Louis in his den, asking him to hold scissors, stand by his tape recorders and pose various ways. While taking the photos, Louis talks about carrying a mirror in his pocket, lip salve, Ansatz Cream, Louis Armstrong Lip Salve, Franz Schuritz, strong lips, playing high notes, playing trumpet is being like "a fighter," everyone learns the same scales ("do-re-mi"), Old Man Moret, looking in a certain direction when he hits certain high notes ("every time I look at that light, I hit D"), the high note at end of "Blueberry Hill," using slang on stage, embouchure, bad habits, used to puff out his cheeks, playing with Fate Marable, Bisma Rex, Sunset Cafe, Joe Glaser, Carroll Dickerson, Earl Hines, a fan in Philadelphia calling marijuana a "Mezz" in front of Mezz Mezzrow, "Laughin' Louie," the "beautiful part" of that record being a theme he used to play with Erskine Tate (he can't remember the name of it, but it's "Love Song" by Minnie T. Wright), Carroll Dickersons, bandleaders with batons, Oscar "Papa" Celestin, Fate Marable, Streckfus steamboats, the Steamer Sidney, Davenport, Bix Beiderbecke and more. Track 2: A recording session for Frosty the Snowman (performed by a trio of women, not Armstrong). The Louis Armstrong House Museum holds a slightly shorter copy of this recording. Side 2 of tape. Opens with Louis telling the punchline of a dirty joke to Avakian and a roomful of unknown visitors while Aram Avakian takes photos of Armstrong. Armstrong talks throughout the tape on a variety of subjects, as George Avakian asks him questions about the manuscript of The Louis Armstrong House Museum holds a copy of this recording. This recording is not held by the Louis Armstrong House Museum. Armstrong and George and Aram Avakian exchange dirty jokes, and the Avakians speak with Louis about This recording is not held by the Louis Armstrong House Museum. George and Aram Avakian speak with Louis Armstrong about Side 1 of tape. Begins with Armstrong and Avakian already in conversation while radio is on in the background. Bulk of conversation centers around the manuscript to The Louis Armstrong House Museum holds a copy of this recording. This recording contains racial language some may find offensive. Side 2 of tape. Conversation continues from other side with discussion of slang, story about the Brown Sisters, Ernest "Six" Smith," Chicago, New Orleans, sex, jokes, Bunk Johnson, Joe Oliver, Bix Beiderbecke, Paul Whiteman, Jack Teagarden, Storyville, working on the wagon in New Orleans, Louis makes Lucille laugh, more jokes, Louis praises Bert Williams and Bill "Bojangles" Robinson, mentions Johnny Collins recently sent him scrapbook of 1932 England clippings, tells a long story about Johnny Collins calling him a racial slur on the The Louis Armstrong House Museum holds a copy of this recording. This recording is not held by the Louis Armstrong House Museum. Continuation of story about Johnny Collins; differences between Lil and Lucille Armstrong; Trummy Young's wife and musicians who don't want to tour; a 1932 London scrapbook; more about Johnny Collins, Joe Glaser, and Armstrong's problems with the Mafia. A WDSU (New Orleans) broadcast discussing the Mardi Gras parade at which Armstrong was honored with the title of King of the Zulus. Armstrong is interviewed, and portions of the ceremony are aired. A program featuring excerpts of an interview interspersed with music, and commentary from Avakian and David Ostwald, Selma Heraldo, Arvell Shaw, and other musicians. Hosted by Humphrey Littleton. The broadcast ends at 57:15, followed by Armstrong and the All Stars at The Hague, November 12, 1933: I'll Be Glad When You're Dead You Rascal You, Dinah; and The Boswell Sisters at The Hague, June 18, 1933: Crazy People, Bright Side of the Road, Alexander's Ragtime Band, St. Louis Blues, Stormy Weather. The original interview recordings from which this one is derived are held in the Willis Conover Collection at the University of North Texas. Track 2: NPR program with interview of Avakian. Track 1: Benny Goodman - Texas Tea Party (commercially-issued single). 100 Years of Louis Armstrong, hosted by Sam Litzinger. With guests Tony Bennett, George Avakian, Laurence Bergreen, Gary Giddins, Dick Golden, and Charles Osgood. Opening ceremony. Unidentified host speaker; Hofstra president Dr. Stuart Rabinowitz; Dr. Scott Harshbarger; George Avakian. Part 1 was missing from the collection. Avakian suggests Armstrong record Honolulu, a song from the Marc Blitzstein musical A Columbia promotional recording. These recordings represent Aram Avakian's work or creations, as well as recordings he collected. A film directed by Aram Avakian. Edits of the tune with and without vocals, performed by Bob Wilber for the soundtrack of the film. The soundtrack to a lost Aram Avakian film about the bassist Bill Crow. A film directed by Aram Avakian. Track 1: A discussion with Joseph Gelmis, film critic for Bach: Air for the G String, Bach: Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring, Billie Holiday: Don't Worry 'Bout Me, Teo Macero: Sounds of May, Tchaikovsky: Swan Lake, Closing Medley: Don't Worry 'Bout Me/Stars and Stripes Forever/Don't Worry 'Bout Me. Some may have been composed by Teo Macero. Track 1: Film soundtrack, Takes 1A, 2, 3. Track 2: Charles Llloyd quartet performing Is It Really the Same, unknown date. Takes 4-6. Takes 7-9. A film edited by Aram Avakian. Some sound effects, but most of the recording is blank. Track 1: Children speaking with an adult, and by themselves. Track 2: Sound track of the film with multiple takes. Track 3: Children speaking with an adult, and by themselves. The documentary was never released. The Woody Herman band in performance: I Remember Clifford, Four Brothers, unidentified, The Preacher, Opus De Funk. A dub of Edward R. Murrow's broadcast during the storm. ABC broadcast day 34. From a multitrack tape. Other tracks contain unidentified music. ABC broadcast day 34. From a multitrack tape. Other tracks contain unidentified music. Track 1: Hearing, until 30:13, followed by a radio broadcast of recorded music. Track 2: Radio broadcasts of commercially-recorded music. McCarthy hearings, up to 6:06, followed by unidentified poetry/jazz recordings about the hearings, followed by a live recording of the Dave Brubeck quartet (from 11:34). Two tracks. One consists of folk songs in a language other than English (possibly Armenian). Track two consists mostly of a recording of a jazz radio station broadcast. The last four and a half minutes are the McCarthy hearings. Track 1: Unidentified band, on tracks copied from 78rpm discs, to 5:55. Followed by McCarthy hearings. Track 2: McCarthy hearings. Tape edits of Joseph McCarthy senate hearings. Followed by Paul Tilliche, professor at Union Theological Seminary, lecturing on Martin Heidegger at a Cooper Union Forum. Followed by an excerpt of the Dave Brubeck Quartet performing "Out of Nowhere" (incomplete). Followed by unidentifed commentator on the McCarthy hearings. Two tracks. Excerpts of McCarthy's testimony at hearings on Communist influence, interspersed with poetry recited over unidentified recordings of a jazz small group. The reel is marked "T.S. Eliot." A film edited by Aram Avakian. This theme was not used. Track 1: Edward R. Murrow program on narcotics issues (20 minutes). WOR broadcast (00:20:06 - 00:40:39). Track 2: Unidentified Spanish male singer-guitarist (00:00:00-00:15:06). Chet Baker singing "But Not For Me" (00:17:06-00:18:48). Army McCarthy hearings (00:22:35-00:42:33). Unidentified location (possibly St. Vartan Armenian Cathedral, New York City). George Avakian hosted the service. Track 1: Commercially-issued Louis Armstrong material, recorded over the memorial service. Audio from the service begins at 59:01 (unidentified speaker). Track 2: The service continues. Remarks from George Avakian begin at 1:35; Dave Brubeck and Gerry Mulligan perform; Joe Bologna remarks; Nile Southern reads Terry Southern's tribute; Arthur Penn remarks; Anahid Ajemian and Şahan Arzruni perform Igor Stravinsky's violin/piano arrangement of The piece, recorded in rehearsal, lasts until 00:09:40, and is followed by a recording on Anahid Ajemian's 33rd birthday. Track 1: Fragments of recording sessions for Garry Moore; an unidentified jazz group of trumpet, tenor saxophone, piano, bass, and drums; and Tab Hunter singing Jealous Heart. Track 2: The Avakian family watches the Moiseyev dance company on television, followed by Ahahid Ajemian's 35th birthday celebration. Daughter of Aram Avakian. All these recordings are of young Alexandra Avakian with her parents. Some have additional content noted. Track 1: Young Alexandra Avakian with her parents. Track 2: Soundtrack to an unidentified film directed or edited by Aram Avakian. Multiple takes of various scenes. Track 1: Young Alexandra Avakian with her parents. Track 2: Max Kaminsky recording session. The session is to provide background music/sounds, not to record proper songs. Kaminsky, trumpet; George Wettling, drums. Possibly Pee Wee Russell, clarinet. Track 1: Young Alexandra Avakian with Aram Avakian. Most of the track is silent. Track 2: Copy of a commercially-released recording of a French woman singer. Track 1: Young Alexandra Avakian with her parents. Track 2: Commercially-released recordings of a male chorus and orchestra. Most of the track is blank. Daughter of George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian. With Maro and Anahid Ajemian, and Maro and Anahid Avakian. Daughter of George Avakian and Anahid Ajemian. First 5:40 of the recording is an unidentified orchestral rehearsal/recording session. From 00:09:05 to the end is the Avakians with daughter Maro, just before her third birthday. Includes Anahid Ajemian and violinist Gerard Kantajian briefly playing for Maro Avakian. Track 1: George Avakian reads to and plays with his daughter. Track 2: A studio recording session for the Brandeis Jazz Festival (released on Columbia as Songs sung for a school presentation. Father of George and Aram Avakian. Discussion of family history, names, Tiflis (Tbilisi) property, and life in Tiflis. A man named Shaha reads and translates an account of Mesrop Avakian family history for George Avakian. Track 2: Part 1. Track 1: Part 2. Track 1: Gower Champion album promotion. Track 2: Avakian narration. Avakian recounts events surrounding a false story in A presentation by Johnny Mathis meant to accompany a slideshow about Avakian's life. "NARAS" was written on the cassette tape, suggesting it was produced for a Recording Academy event. Begins with a sampling of Duke Ellington hits: East St. Louis Toodle-Oo, Black Beauty, Creole Love Call, The Mooche, Mood Indigo, Sophisticated Lady, In My Solitude, In A Sentimental Mood, Caravan, I Let A Song Go Out Of My Heart, Do Nothing Til You Hear From Me, and Don't Get Around Much Anymore. At 37:00 is a recording titled "April Pop Album Releases," sent to record dealers to promote Columbia's new LP releases. Avakian's sales pitches are interspersed with album excerpts. These include albums by Les Brown, Charlie Christian, Turk Murphy, Victor Borge, and Liberace. A promotional LP series sent out to dealers and the public about recently-released music on Columbia. Columbia officials Goddard Lieberson, James Conkling, David Oppenheim, George Avakian, and Mitch Miller introduce excerpts of new releases. Track 1: Volume 1, No. 2. Track 2: Volume 1, No. 4. A compilation, presumably created by Avakian, of released songs; broadcast or recording outtakes; or candid recordings. Track 1: Tommy Lasorda during 1977 World Series; Canadian sportscaster; Colonel Sanders; Orson Welles; Ray Charles and Big Bubba; Julie London; Freddie Hubbard (1966); Buddy Rich (1983); Ralph Williams; Oy! Track 2: Portsmouth Sinfonia - Zarathustra, Sugar Plum Fairy; Marva Leigh Congleton (Miss Norfolk 1970) performs an Al Jolson Medley; Thelma on the Chord Organ; The Shaggs; Fred Skinner - Marie; Sidney Bechet - Laughing in Rhythm; Red Allen - Old Shanty Town; Bud Freeman - The Latest Thing in Hot Jazz for Musicians Only; Harry Roy - Pussy; Woody Herman - Laughing Boy Blues; Fats Waller - You Run Your Mouth; Ted Weems Orchestra with Gary Moore and Perry Como - Home on the Range; Louis Armstrong - Laughin' Louie (1933). Track 1: Content begins at 1:18. A representative of the nominations committee of the Los Angeles chapter discusses the chapter's proposal for categories in which the Academy's awards should be given. This recording was sent to Avakian as head of the New York chapter. Track 2: Several people (possibly including Avakian) discuss recordings and play excerpts, including the Woody Herman band and the the Larry Elgart orchestra. Presentation of the NARAS Governor's Awards. Track 1: Remarks from Milt Gabler, Jack Marr (past president), Ray Moore (then-current president), Al Schlesinger, and Jonathan (unidentified). Milt Gabler speaks about his career; presentation on Doc Pomus; remarks from Herb Abramson on Pomus; presentation on the life of George Avakian (begins at 29:16). Track 2: Milt Gabler introduces Dan Morgenstern to give Avakian the award. Remarks from Morgenstern. Remarks from Avakian. Presentation on David Hall. Peter Munves introduces Hall to received the Governor's Award. Track 1: David Hall remarks. Milt Gabler reads a congratulatory letter from Dave Brubeck to George Avakian and Nesuhi Ertegun. Presentation on Nesuhi Ertegun. George Simon introduces Nesuhi Ertegun. Remarks from Ertegun. Presentation on Kenneth Gamble and Leon Huff. Bruce Lundvall introduces Gamble and Huff. Track 2: Gamble and Huff accept Governor's award. Track 1: Conversation with Hank O'Neal. Track 2: Conversation with an unidentified man regarding the record company Pegasus started by Avakian and O'Neal. Avakian recounts the history of how the company started and how disputes developed (the conversation is incomplete). Track 1: A phone conversation between Avakian and his lawyer about legal action against the producer Hank O'Neal, with whom Avakian had been in a business disagreement; followed by a phone conversation with Ken Glancey, formerly in charge of RCA Records, also regarding O'Neal; a conversation with "Bernie" (not otherwise identified), also regarding the O'Neal affair; a conversation with "Al" (not otherwise identified); a conversation with "Harvey" (not otherwise identified) regarding music clearances for the film Lloyd's voice is not audible until 23:49. Track 1: Conversations with Charles Lloyd (November 11, 1982); Rick Mancik (February 24, 1983). Track 2: Conversation with Jim Nolis (October 22, 1982); Charles Lloyd (October 10, 1982); Jim Nolis (February 8, 1983). For several years in the 1980s, Avakian owned a horse that ran in harness-racing events. Track 1: Conversations are nearly inaudible until 26:20. At that point the conversations are with a woman named Rosemary regarding horse racing (only Avakian is clearly audibile). Track 2: More conversations with Rosemary, and a man named Dick, regarding horse racing. Track 1: Conversations with "Tony H" (February 26), "Jim N" (March 8), and illegible (March 11). Track 2: Conversation with Nollas (May 4). These talks are regarding horse racing and related business. The date applies to track 1 only. Track 1: Phone conversations regarding horse racing with a woman named Rosemary. Track 2: Phone conversations with an unidentified man regarding a legal affair; and with Alexandra Avakian regarding the same. Track 1: The first conversation (starting 4:30) is with a Mr. Levene is regarding real estate. The next few are with Rosemary or Ronny Munson regarding horses. Track 2: Conversations with Ronny Munson. The conversation concerns Charles Lloyd. The conversation concerns a business issue. Wilson's show celebrates the 50th anniversary of the Decca Hosted by Frank Trumbauer. The program includes interviews with or messages from Paul Whiteman, Bing Crosby, Red Nichols, Bill Priestley, Jack Howe, Jimmy McPartland, Pee Wee Russell, and George Avakian, interspersed with music. A discussion with Avakian about his early career and his work with Duke Ellington. Introduction by Society President Morris Hodara. Introduction by Bruce Kennan. A discussion of Ellington in the recording studio. Introduction by Society President David Hadju. A discussion of Ellington at the Newport Jazz Festival, 1956. Track 1: Avakian publicly confronts Schaap during Schaap's presentation to the 1999 conference on his production of the 1999 reissue of A presentation by Steven Lasker at a meeting of the Duke Elliington Society of Southern California. Lasker speaks about Hardwick, then plays a recording of the interview, which was conducted on April 29, 1964. Track 1: Memorial service. Fuller was a friend of Avakian's from his years at Yale University. Track 2: Unidentified violin/piano duo. A piece for spoken word and drums, featuring Chico Hamilton's brother Bernie, an actor. Two unidentified classical piano performances; unidentified band performance; Spartacus (multiple takes). See also Hampton's memorial service, in Video Recordings. Reporter Dolores Brandon on the NPR program Artbeat. Hampton was recorded at F. Brown's Soho loft. Part 1 was not present in the collection. Held in Montreal, Canada. Much of the discussion centers on the complexity of rock music versus that of the pre-rock era. Includes discussion of the Composers String Quartet visit to Bulgaria and the Soviet Union. Interviewer: Jean Bach. Host Cary Ginell with guest Steve Allen. The discussion focuses on Duke Ellington. Broadcast from KCLU-Thousand Oaks, California. Two tracks. The younger sister of Louis Armstrong, interviewed by Japanese trumpeter Yoshio Toyama. Two tracks. Avakian states the interview is in Milan following Armstrong's December 1955 performance there that appears on the Unidentified interviewer, in San Francisco. The interview concerns life in New Orleans during their youth. See the insert file for a note from Turk Murphy to "John" describing the interview. Discussion of the movie Track 1: Interview with Avakian, unidentified interviewer. Track 2: Commercially-released selections from the musical See also interviews with Avakian in the Video Recordings. See also the Music for Moderns concert series recordings. Portions of this interview were incorporated into Conover's program on the following item. Voice of America Jazz Hour hosted by Willis Conover. Music interspersed with Avakian's interview, which begins at 4:40 and ends at 25:22. Regarding the Music for Moderns Concert Series. Moderated by George Simon. With Fred Grady, Willis Conover, Sid McCoy, Don DeMichael, Nesuhi Ertegun, Teo Macero, Bob Theile, and George Avakian. Produced for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Montreal. Avakian discusses jazz discography, the format of issuing of jazz on record labels, and Charles Lloyd. Part 1 ends at 00:18:20. Part 2 ends at 00:18:04. Unidentified interviewer. The main topic of conversation is Eddie Condon, but Avakian also discusses production methods. Two tracks. The insert file holds a 1982 note from Yale University that accompanied the copy of the recording sent to Avakian. A transcript of this interview is in box 13, folder 15. Unidentified interviewer. The interview is regarding Duke Ellington. Two tracks. The original recording is held by Oral History of American Music, Yale University. A radio broadcast in which Avakian discusses the first appearance by a band of Russian jazz musicians in New York, at the Village Gate (arranged and sponsored by Avakian). Trumpeter Valery Ponomarev is also a guest. Two tracks. (The interview is on the first track only.) A radio interview on Voice of America following Davis's death. R.A. most likely stands for Recording Academy. Avakian discusses tape editing and splicing. Part 2 of 2 (the first part of the recording was not present in the collection). Hosted by Richard Isles on WBAI FM New York. Guests: George Avakian, Bob Cranshaw, Frank Owens, Sy Johnson, and Gil Noble. Music is interspersed with conversation. Two tracks. Two tracks. Isles hosted the Musical Expressions jazz program on WBAI radio New York. A BBC radio series about Avakian's career, first broadcast in the United Kingdom in early 1993, hosted by Ian Carr, and produced by Derek Drescher. Carr carried out extensvie interviews for the series. Interview transcriptions are in box 13, folder 23. The titles below are topics; all the interviews are with Avakian. Track 1: Erroll Garner. Track 2: Duke Ellington. Track 1: Dave Brubeck. Track 2: Miles Davis. Track 1: Sonny Rollins. Track 2: Charles Lloyd and Keith Jarrett. Unidentified interviewer. Track 1: Subjects - Avakian hired by Columbia in 1940; salaries and royalties at Columbia; how the recording business evolved. Track 2: How departments at Columbia were structured and how they evolved; how the culture of the company changed; artist contracts; writing his autobiography and his plans for its structure. Interviewer: Ann Sneed. A transcript of this interview is in box 12, folder 19. Unidentified interviewer. Telephone interview. Interviewer: Marcia Salter. The subject is Louis Armstrong. A series produced by Paul Conley and hosted by Nancy Wilson. Conley was the interviewer on these recordings, which were done at Avakian's home. Two episodes of the series resulted: one on Erroll Garner, the other about Avakian. Two tracks. A radio program on WVNJ-AM, Oakland, New Jersey. Hosted by Lowe, with guests George Avakian, Tony Corbiscello trio, pianist Derek Smith, vocalist Joe Francis, clarinetist Joe Licari, guitarist Bucky Pizzarelli, and vocalist Greg Calderone. Avakian is the first interview, discussing the Re-discovered Louis Armstrong and Bix Beiderbecke project. Talk is interspersed with recorded or live music. Track 1: Conclusion of Jim Lowe and Friends program. Track 2: Unidentified traditional jazz band. See also the interviews with William S. Bachman, William Savory, and Vincent Liebler, under Bachman, William. Avakian is a featured speaker. An interview regarding Louis Armstrong. A discussion with George Avakian and Teo Macero, moderated by Nat Hentoff and presented by Jazz at Lincoln Center. Recorded at the Stanley H. Kaplan Penthouse, Lincoln Center. Two tracks. A general interview on Avakian's career. Only Avakian's side of the conversation is audible. The interviewer is unidentified, though a technician named Matt is present recording Avakian. A call-in radio program on WVOX-AM (based in New Rochelle, New York). Avakian is the guest. The discussion focuses on Louis Armstrong. The interview focuses on Duke Ellington. An interview for WNYC radio. The complete program. An excerpt from the interview, for broadcast on National Public Radio's Morning Edition. The interview begins at 22:50, and is mostly about Louis Armstrong. Interview begins at 41:47. A panel discussion about producing Miles Davis, with George Avakian, Marcus Miller, and Bob Belden, moderated by Al Pryor. An interview regarding W.C. Handy. Avakian is speaking with Farnel over an audio link, and only Avakian's side of the conversation can be heard. Held in Newport, Rhode Island. A panel with George Wein and George Avakian, moderated by Nate Chinen. George Wein interviewed by Nate Chinen. Hancock authored the book Mark Laiosa, host. The discussion focuses on Louis Armstrong. The interview focuses on John Cage. Interviewer: David Patterson. Two tracks. Ajemian does not join the interview until track 2 at 14:30. The musician/guitarist son of Aram Avakian. Interviewer: Robin McBride. Bachman was a sound engineer who directed the LP development project at Columbia Records. See also Liebler, Vincent. The topics are Bachman's career and the development of the LP. Savory was one of the engineers on the LP project, working under Bachman's leadership. The focus is mainly on Columbia's development of the long-playing record. Discussion and demonstration of songs sung by Barker's mother or grandmother: Down By The Riverside, Didn't He Ramble, Hey La Ba, Chacabo Findo Hey (transliteration). Recording of a New Orleans percussion ensemble and child singers. Barker speaks and plays musical demonstrations. Also audible on these recordings is a woman (possibly Barker's wife), and another unidentified musician. Discussion of Barker's mother, grandparents, and uncle, parades and second lines. Demonstration of second line music. An unidentified drummer speaks with Barker and Avakian about playing with Fate Marable, more about Marable's career and playing on the boats. Discussion of Barker's religious upbringing, Creole songs, Aurora Borealis reading, Fate Marable. The stature of musicians in New Orleans, how Barker chose the banjo, Congo Square, Mardi Gras, Lu Blues, Danny Blues. Track 1: Interview. Track 2: Recording sessions for an unidentified male singer performing Lonesome Road, and an unidentified female voiceover artist. The soundtrack of an NBC television broadcast. Track 1: An episode of the radio program The Literary Guild's First Edition, hosted by Heywood Hale Broun. The subject is Bix Beiderbecke. Guests are Ralph Berton, author of Boulez in discussion with composers Andrew Imbrie, Arnold Elston, and Jack Holloway, moderated by Robert Ericson. The discussion lasts about 13 minutes, followed by selections of Boulez's music. Recorded off of a television broadcast, unidentified interviewer. Discussion of Tahitian culture, the Academy Award nominations, and gossip columnists. The interview ends at 31:25. Dave and Iola Brubeck interviewed by George and Aram Avakian. This interview took place during the recording of The radio program features an interview with Davison in Scotland by Ken Mathieson. See also the interview with William Savory about Goodman. An extended interview about Goodman's life and career, interviewers unknown. The recording was made shortly before the Goodman band's tour of the Soviet Union. The box was labeled IV. The box was labeled V. The box was labeled VI. The interview was done after the tour was finished. The interview took place following the recording of Not the same as three part interview below. At the Columbia 30th Street studio. Produced and hosted by Sara Fishko for WNYC radio. Lieberson was the long-time president of Columbia Records. Track 1: Recording session for Fantasy, part 3 (take 1), for violin (possibly Anahid Ajemian) and piano (unidentified composer). Track 2: An interview of Goddard Lieberson, interviewer unidentified. The tape box has "Nelson Algren" written on it. Liebler was a member of the engineering team at Columbia Records under William S. Bachman and William Savory that developed the long-playing record. See also Bachman, William S. Track 1: Vincent Liebler interview, part 2, (until 7:26). Ella Fitzgerald-Duke Ellington-Billy Strayhorn rehearsal, June 27, 1957. Includes work on Chelsea Bridge. Track 2: Benny Goodman - Benny's Bugle rehearsal, November 7, 1940, with Charlie Christian; and Waitin' For Benny, March 13, 1941: Goodman, clarinet; Christian, guitar; Cootie Williams, trumpet; Georgie Auld, tenor saxophone; Johnny Guarnieri, piano; and Dave Tough, drums. At Lloyd's apartment, just before his departure for a European tour. The interview took place at the end of a European tour. A conversation between George Avakian, Charles Lloyd, Horst Lippmann, and Lilian Terry. Voice of America Jazz Hour, hosted by Willis Conover. The announcer speaks in Russian, questions are asked in Russian, and a Russian translator speaks over Masselos's answers, which are interspersed with performance excerpts. Mathis discusses his vocal education and his first Columbia album. The end of the recording contains an unidentified small jazz group featuring Coleman Hawkins. Noga was Mathis's manager. McDonough discusses the history of jazz through various recordings of King Porter Stomp. Tracks 1 and 2: The soundtrack to a television broadcast of a conversation between Alan Jay Lerner, Jule Styne, Marc Blitzstein, Gerry Mulligan, and Goddard Lieberson. Topics include the nature of songwriting collaborations; songs; singers; music and musicians; and jazz. Track 2 also includes a recording of an unidentified classical guitarist. Napolean was a pianist who performed with Louis Armstrong's All Stars. This interview was part of WKCR's annual Armstrong birthday broadcasts. Sanders was a trombonist in the Duke Ellington orchestra who later became a Catholic priest. Saroyan speaks of his family and upbringing. See also the interview with Bachman, William S.; and with Benny Goodman. Savory was a noted sound engineer. The discussion is entirely about Benny Goodman, including the history and technical aspects of the recording of Goodman at Carnegie Hall in 1938; Goodman's personality; how he conducted business; his artistic life; and other topics. The interviewer is unidentified. The interviewer may be Alan Hovhaness. Shankar discusses his family background and upbringing, joining his brother Uday's dance troupe, meeting Allauddin Khan, how he became a musician and began his career, and more. A discussion of Towers's 1940 recording of the Duke Ellington orchestra in Fargo, North Dakota. Wallerstein was the president of Columbia Records who hired George Avakian. The interview concerns the development of the long-playing record and the evolution of Columbia/CBS. Interviewer: Ward Botsford. Avakian speaks about Ellington at Newport, 1956. Events hosted by Arnold Jay Smith, with Avakian as featured guest discussing Louis Armstrong and Duke Ellington. Track 1: The New School University, Part II (ends at 9:50). New Jersey City University, Part 1, October 2001 (begins at 9:51). Track 2: New Jersey City University, Part 1 (continued). The lecture concludes on track 1. Track 2 is a compilation of released Armstrong recordings. All commercially-issued. All commercially-issued. Track 1: Avakian discusses the planned but never-made Duke Ellington / Louis Armstrong recording. Track 2: Avakian discusses the development of the long-playing record. Also includes a panel discussion with Patricia Willard. Played during the Ellington/Armstrong lecture. Musical examples of Louis Armstrong to accompany a presentation by Avakian at Satchmo Summerfest, New Orleans. The lecture itself is not present. See the insert file for more details. All the material is commercially-released. A lecture by George Avakian on the never-made album with Duke Ellington and Louis Armstrong. Held at the UCLA Faculty Center. Pre-lecture music and commentary by Kenny Burrell, guitar: Unidentified, What a Wonderful World, Ellington Medley. A lecture on the history of jazz discography. Presented by the Sidney Bechet Society at the at the Center for Jazz Studies, Columbia University. Music examples for an unidentified lecture, possibly an overview of Avakian's career. All issued recordings (some edited) of Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong, Eddie Condon, Sidney Bechet, Johnny Mathis, Edith Piaf, Rosemary Clooney, and others. See the insert file for the track listing (28 titles). The lecture itself is not present. A presentation at a Jazz Research Roundtable, Institute of Jazz Studies, Rutgers University, Newark, New Jersey. Hammond discusses Count Basie, blues, gospel, and other topics. Recorded by Dick Schoenfield, an Allegheny student. Never released. The first half hour consists of an opening act of an a capella male vocal duet, followed by Newhart. Newhart's set is duplicated on Part 2, but is slightly longer on this recording. This recording consists of the same set as on Part 1, and is slightly shorter, but has an audio note from Newhart to Avakian on track 2. A BBC Radio 3 documentary written and presented by Alyn Shipton, produced by Sam Hickling. The program includes interviews with festival producer George Wein and various jazz musicians and writers, interspersed with performances. A compilation of Paar monologues. Jazz DJ "Symphony" Sid Torin's last broadcast on WEVD radio, New York City. The date may be incorrect. A BBC documentary series about the producer, hosted by John Peel. Whitehead was a British navy veteran and business executive who was the head of American operations for the Schweppes Corporation. Better known as "Commander Whitehead," he appeared for many years in radio and television advertisements for Schweppes tonic water and ginger ale. A radio series about the United Kingdom, produced by WQXR and hosted by Whitehead. Two tracks. A demonstration of a skit to open an album of Christmas music by an unidentified comedy duo. Whitehead is not on the demos but was intended to be part of the finished recording. Track 1: Russian Cocktail; Double sun. Track 2: Farewell to Childhood. Yahilevich, keyboards; Dave Liebman, reeds; Larry Schneider, reeds; Arnold Scharf, bass; Bob Leonard, drums; Guilherme Franco, percussion. All composed by Yahilevich. First track is an audio letter to Avakian from an unidentified friend in Colorado (second half of letter precedes the first half). Second track is an unidentified orchestra playing takes of "GA Special;" "Comic Strip" recording session; and recordings by the Saroyan Sisters. See the insert file for more information. The title was written on the tape box. Track 1: A woman counting with a metronome, on unique separate tracks (left and right channels). Track 2: Brahms A stream of consciousness monologue, sometimes inaudible. This subseries contains rare film or video of musicians; interviews with and award ceremonies for George Avakian, as well as a lecture; and a documentary regarding Aram Avakian. It is arranged alphabetically by artist, subject, or title. Musicians documented include Louis Armstrong, Count Basie, Benny Goodman, Charles Lloyd, Keith Jarrett, Turk Murphy, Valery Ponomarev, Kid Ory, and Yoshio Toyama. Notable content includes: Louis Armstrong: Film and television appearances. Count Basie: Benny Goodman: Footage of Goodman's 1962 Soviet tour, and other live performance excerpts from 1938 to 1975. Charles Lloyd: Keith Jarrett: The 2003 ceremony in Stockholm Sweden, at which Jarrett was awarded the Polar Music Prize, introduced by Avakian. Turk Murphy: A documentary about Murphy. Kid Ory: A 1959 performance in Paris. Timex All-Star Jazz Show: Two episodes of this television series, featuring Louis Armstrong, Gene Krupa, Lionel Hampton, Anita O'Day, Duke Ellington, Dizzy Gillespie, George Shearing, Jo Jones, Roy Eldridge, Bobby Hackett, Coleman Hawkins, Milt Hinton, and others (1958-1959). A 1996 Tribute to Voice of America jazz DJ Willis Conover, featuring musicians such as Billy Taylor, Paquito D'Rivera, Datevik Hovenasian, Armen Donelian, Charlie Byrd, and others (better-quality audio for this event is in subseries IV.A.) A 1959 Columbia Records promotional film, The George Avakian-related video includes several interviews, including an oral history conducted by the National Association of Music Merchants; a lecture at a meeting of the Duke Ellington Society of Sweden; and ceremonies honoring Avakian by the Armenian General Benevolent Union and the Recording Academy. The subseries also contains a 2011 documentary about the Aram Avakian film A report on local news on public access to the Hudson River shore, with commentary from Anahid Ajemian. A video created by Sylvia Ansourian Kruizenga featuring women in Armenian history, including Maro and Anahid Ajemian. Only photos and concert flyers are featured. Film and video excerpts of Armstrong performances from the late 1940s to the late 1960s. A documentary directed by Steven Soderbergh on the making of Presentation of an award to Avakian, with an introductory video, and a performance by the Louis Armstrong Eternity Band, led by David Ostwald. Held at Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center. Avakian receives the Trustees award. Avakian interviewed by Monke Rowe, director of the Hamilton College Jazz Archive, Clinton, New York. Discussion of Miles Davis's first recordings for Columbia, the Music For Moderns concerts, racism, Mahalia Jackson, and more. Interviewer and Director - Jeff Scheftel. Discussion of the start and development of the Recording Academy, Marshall Stearns, and more. The interview took place at Avakian's home. Museum director Loren Schoenberg interviews Avakian. Panelists: George Avakian, Jay Cooper, Billy Ivey, Lesley Ann Jones, and Phil Ramone. Moderated by Jimmy Jam. Presentations by Daniel Light and Avakian (Avakian's segment begins at 00:51:00 in part 1). Avakian speaks on the planned but never-made Louis Armstrong-Duke Ellington album for Columbia. Lecture. Presentations by Steven Lasker and Ken Steiner, and questions and answers with Avakian (starting at 2:00:00). Questions and answers with Avakian, concluded. Azarian with bassist John Lockwood and drummer Jack Diefendorf. All original compositions. February 6, 1996: Regattabar, Cambridge, Massachussetts. Azarian, piano, with Rob Scheps, tenor and soprano saxophones; John Lockwood, bass; and Jeff Williams, drums. Stella By Starlight, Longing for My Son Dennis (Azarian). January 29, 1996: The Blue Note, New York City. Azarian with Scheps; Dan Greenspan, bass; and Williams. The Woman I Love (Azarian), Christina (Azarian), Manhattan Blues (Azarian), Longing for My Son Dennis, Living in Jazzland (Azarian), Prayer (Azarian), Hope (Azarian). A documentary by Alanthony Green (son of guitarist Freddie Green). Performance and interview excerpts with Canonge (a pianist) and fans, including a brief comment from Avakian. All are speaking French. An Eddie Condon Television Special, featuring his band performing aboard the aircraft carrier See also the audio recording of this event, which has better sound quality and is in stereo. Hosted by Billy Taylor and Judy Massa (Voice of America music director). With the Dave Burns brass band. Take the A Train (Taylor solo), Four (Taylor with saxophonist Buck Hill, bassist Keter Betts, and drummer Jerry Jones). Starlight Starbright (Slim Mann trio). Samba for Carmen McRae (Paquito D'Rivera, clarinet and alto saxophone; Armen Donelian, piano; David Fink, bass; Portinho, drums). George Avakian remarks, and introduction of Datevik Hovenasian. Yarimo (Hovenasian with D'Rivera, Donelian, Fink, and Portinho). Blues Walk (Valery Ponamarev, trumpet, with D'Rivera, Donelian, Keter Betts, and Jerry Jones). The Whistling Song (recorded tune written by Conover and Alec Wilder). Mood Indigo (Charlie Byrd, guitar). Who She Do (Joe Williams, vocals, with Taylor, Betts, and Jones). Poor Butterfly (Keter Betts bass solo). With recorded or phone greetings from Peter Jennings, Charles Osgood, Dave Brubeck, Ruth Brown, Milcho Leviev, Adam Makowicz, Dick Hyman, and George Shearing. JaRon Eames, vocals; Amy Quint Milan, piano; Ethan Mann, guitar; Hida Tanaka, bass; Cleave Guyton, alto saxophone; Peter Morgan, drums. Blues Medley: Every Day I Have the Blues-Shake Rattle and Roll, I Want A Little Girl, All of Me, Here's to Life, Blues Medley: Stormy Monday-Route 66. Excerpts of Eames in performance, and of interviews with Clark Terry, Nancy Wilson, George Carlin, Margaret Whiting, Randy Weston, Joe Williams, Jimmy Scott, Joe Franklin, Maxine Brown, Oscar Peterson, Chuck Mangione, Anita O'Day, Hank Jones, George Wein, Stan Myers, Jack Kleinsinger, Dakota Staton, Soupy Sales, Albert Murray, Ruth Ellington, and Billy Taylor. A documentary film about Evans, featuring performances with Miles Davis, and Avakian describing his history with Evans. A short description of Armenian rhythms and percussion, and Gabojan's performance career, including his encounter with the Benny Goodman orchestra during its 1962 tour of Russia, followed by a performance by Gabojan and Manasjan. The entire program repeats, with narration in Armenian. Goodman 30th anniversary party, January 16, 1968; Goodman on Sid Caesar's Your Show of Shows, November 1, 1954; the Goodman band in a circa 1938 film short; an undated film of the Tommy Dorsey band featuring Ziggy Elman, Buddy Rich, and Tallulah Winters; the Goodman band in a circa 1938 film short; Goodman 30th anniversary party, January 16, 1968; the Goodman trio (with Krupa and Wilson) on an unidentifed television show, 1950s; Goodman with George Benson on a 1975 television tribute to John Hammond; Goodman, Krupa, and Wilson on an unidentified television show, 1950s. The musical content is followed by the last half hour of the Orson Welles film Goodman 30th anniversary party, January 16, 1968 (18 seconds only); Goodman quartet from the "Big Party" show, December 17, 1959; Goodman on Sid Casesar's Your Show of Shows, November 1, 1954; Goodman quartet (with Gene Krupa, Lionel Hampton, and Teddy Wilson) at Lincoln Center, October 23, 1973; Goodman, Andre Previn, and Lionel Hampton, April 10, 1959. A documentary film in Russian. Includes footage of performances and Goodman sightseeing and meeting Russian fans. A documentary film by Konstanze Burkard on the Goodman 1962 Soviet tour. Includes 1962 footage, and 2009-2010 interviews with Joya Sherrill, John Bunch, Bill Crow, Joe Wilder, Jerry Dodgion, Phil Woods, George Avakian, and Russian musicians and fans. Held at Riverside Church. With the Lionel Hampton Orchestra, the Gully Low Jazz Band, Wynton Marsalis, Carrie Smith, Illinois Jacquet, Clark Terry, President George H.W. Bush, Wycliffe Gordon, John Faddis, Roy Hargrove, and Cyrus Chestnut. A Zort Music documentary. See the insert file for a full program for the service. A short documentary film by Joanne Fish. Sound of the Return (1998) with the Armen Donelian trio in, Yerevan, Armenia (complete program). Jazz Central, BET Cable, with Larry Willis, piano (1997): Love is Here to Stay, Sophisticated Lady, I Ain't Got Nothing But the Blues. Hovenasian is introduced by Avakian. Avakian introduces Jarrett. A music video and documentary of a charity project featuring jazz musicians to raise funding to fight hunger and homelessness in the United States. Featured artists include Sarah Vaughn, Herbie Hancock, Tom Scott, Stanley Clarke, Carmen McRae, Billy Eckstine, Ray Brown, Eloise Laws, Mark Murphy, Kenny Rankin, Della Reese, Maynard Ferguson, Ernie Watts, and Larry Carlton. A promotional video, produced and narrated by George Avakian, with interviews of Lloyd interspersed with music. Music: Sweet Georgia Bright, Voice in the Night, Love Song to a Baby, Island Blues. Lloyd, saxophone and flute, with Gabor Szabo, guitar; Charlie Haden, bass; and Louis Hayes, drums. A documentary film about the Russian jazz trumpeter and bandleader Hermann Lukianov. Avakian appears in the film. Produced by Soyuztelefilm. All speech is in Russian. A performance produced for promotional purposes, with Dennis Koster, guitar. Sabre Dance, Autumn Leaves, Romance De Amor (Gomez), Oudspana (Mgrdichian), Arabian Dawn (Sabicas). See also audio recordings of Morrison. Walking With My Baby Down Beside the San Francisco Bay, Ebb Tide, Plaisir d'amour, What Kind of Fool Am I, Try to Remember (The Kind of September), Bewitched Bothered and Bewildered, If Only Take a Moment, Poinciana, Soon It's Gonna Rain. Morrison on guitar and vocals, with an unidentified bassist. See the insert file for a session work sheet, track listing, and a letter to Avkian from Congressional representative Jed Johnson, Jr. regarding the tape. A biographical film about Murphy produced in honor of his 70th birthday. Produced, directed, and narrated by Bud Spangler. Presented by See's Candies for the San Francisco Traditional Jazz Foundation. Part of the Biography series produced by the A and E cable network. Avakian appears in the episode. Ory, trombone, with Henry "Red" Allen, trumpet; Bob McCracken, clarinet; Cedric Haywood, piano; William Girsback, bass; and Alton Redd, drums. Do You Know What It Means To Miss New Orleans, interview with Ory, Tiger Rag, Aunt Hagar's Children Blues, High Society, Muskrat Ramble, I Wish I Could Shimmy Like My Sister Kate, Royal Garden Blues, Basin Street Blues, Shine, Do What Ory Says, unidentified. At Birdland, New York City. A birthday cake is presented to Avakian, and the Louis Armstrong Centennial Band performs Royal Garden Blues. Two shorts, one (untitled) featuring Penton and Nemo, the other ( See also 3 x 3, in Audio Recordings. Valary Ponomarev solo excerpts, performing with Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers and an unidentified quintet: Bitter Dose, unidentified, and Ceora. A sextet of Souren Baronian, soprano saxophone; Barry Daniellan, flugelhorn; Armen Donelian, piano; Ralph Hamperian, bass; Paul Motian, drums; and Arto Tunçboyacıyan, percussion: Nor Ayk (Donelian-Baronian). Armen Donelian with Paquito D'Rivera, alto saxophone, and unidentified trombonist, bassist, and drummer: Two unidentified selections. Unidentified guitarist and oud player with pianist, bassist, and percussionist: Blackbird, unidentified, unidentified. See also 3 x 3. Recorded live at Jazz Someday, Tokyo, Japan. A recreation of the A short video describing the history of the role of Chairperson of the Recording Academy. Two soundies. The first features Richard Himber and his Orchestra, the Adrian Rollini Trio, and the Selinsky Quartet. The second features the Adrian Rollini Trio, the Frazee Sisters, the Milt Herth Trio, and Tito and Sextette. November 10, 1958: Starring Louis Armstrong, Gene Krupa, Lionel Hampton, Les Brown, Chico Hamilton, Anita O'Day, Hoagy Carmichael, and Bob Crosby. January 7, 1959: Hosted by Jackie Gleason, starring Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Dizzy Gillespie, George Shearing, the Dukes of Dixieland, Gene Krupa and Jo Jones, Roy Eldridge, Bobby Hackett, Coleman Hawkins, Milt Hinton, and Marty Napoleon. See the insert file for a postcard that accompanied the tape sent to Avakian by Jim Gavin in 1996. Toyama and the Dixie Saints on WWL-TV (2001), and at New Orleans airport (2000). A lecture/presentation with music, images, film, and music performances (mostly in Japanese). A promotional documentary film about recording activity at Columbia Records. Artists featured are Leonard Bernstein, Johnny Mathis, the Duke Ellington Orchestra, and Bruno Walter, all except Bernstein shown recording at the Columbia 30th Street studio. Ellington is shown recording portions of the album


--- [Hot Five Centennial Celebration Part 5: George Avakian and the Release of “ ...] ---
In our (very long) previous installment to this series, we told the tale of how the records Louis Armstrong made with the Hot Five and Hot Seven in the 1920s were extremely influential to those who heard them…but there were a lot of people who didn’t hear them at the time of their release because they were marketed as “Race Records.” Early critics who picked up on them knocked those sides for being “primitive.” By the mid-1930s, the original recordings were out of print and fetching big bucks on the worldwide “Hot Club” scene, leading to a handful of reissues in the back half of the decade. Even those releases received some two-star reviews, with the thinking being that they were old-fashioned sides that would only appeal to collectors during the height of the Swing Era. Yet here we are in 2025 and the music of the Hot Five is generally regarded as the cornerstone of early jazz, the foundation of all that followed, cementing Armstrong’s reptuation as “the Prometheus figure of jazz music,” as Jon Batiste recently called him. The music has been transcribed and analyzed by musicologists like Gunther Schuller and Brian Harker, it has been performed by groups led by Wynton Marsalis, and has been at the center of numerous centennial celebrations, such as the one you are currently reading. What changed? Perhaps a better question is, who changed it? This man: Yes, folks, that is George Mesrop Avakian, one of the most influential record producers of the 20th century. If you don’t believe me, here’s a perfect paragraph written by John McDonough in the Wall Street Journal on June 3, 1997: “Ask any jazz expert to name the music’s greatest all-time figures and pretty quickly you’ll hear the name Louis Armstrong. Ask your expert to name his finest recordings and you’ll surely hear such titles as ‘West End Blues’ and ‘Potato Head Blues.’ You’ll hear this because Armstrong and those records are part of the jazz canon. But where do such canons come from? Who said that Armstrong and ‘Potato Head Blues’ were so great in the first place? The answer is, George Avakian said so.” If you don’t know much about Avakian, his National Endowment for the Arts interview is a good place to start (you might also want to explore the digital collections of the New York Public Library, which has provided multiple images for this post). Born on March 15, 1919 to Armenian parents in Armavir, Russia, the Avakian family moved to New York City in 1923 (George vividly remembered seeing Babe Ruth hit a home run at Yankee Stadium in the 1920s). But for our purposes, the story begins in the early 1930s when Avakian, then a student at the prestigious Horace Mann School for Boys in the Bronx, began paying attention to the music he was listening to on the radio. As he told JazzTimes magazine in 2000: “I became interested in jazz when I was 13, maybe 14. I would dial in some music late at night-surreptitiously and very softly, after my parents thought I was asleep-like the Casa Loma Orchestra, Duke Ellington, Fats Waller, Louis Armstrong, whose records I started to buy, and by 1935 there was Benny Goodman, who shared a three-hour Saturday night program, Let’s Dance with a couple of other bands that I yawned through. By the time of my senior year of high school in Sept. 1936 I supplemented my radio listening with a modest record collection built on an allowance of 50¢ a week. In November, I interviewed the King of Swing, Benny Goodman, for my school newspaper, The Horace Mann Record.“ (That interview has been digitized by the NYPL and can be viewed here!) By September 1937, Avakian’s music fandom was mentioned in a profile that ran in the Horace Man Record, complete with photograph (look at all that hair!): Avakian was awarded the Alumni Award for being “the most outstanding citizen in the Senior Class,” noting that Avakian was class president, editor-in-chief of the paper, a member of the honored Archon Society, and a “gifted baseball player.” “Besides being outstanding in these activities, Avakian was a noted swing enthusast,” the profile added. “He wrote several ‘Music Goes ‘Round’ columns in the RECORD and also a lengthy piece in the Quarterly.” That same month, Avakian had his first letter published in Metronome magazine, praising the Casa Loma Orchestra, while knocking Benny Goodman and complaining that Duke Ellington “is almost always a disappointment on wax”–ironic considering his later close associations with both Ellington and Goodman. But Avakian soon had his “big bang” moment after he landed on the radar of Lester Koenig, a burgeoning record collector who was the brother of one of Avakain’s classmates, Julian Koenig. “Does George know about Louis Armstrong?” Lester asked his brother. “Yes,” Julian responded, “he thinks he’s real flashy and sings kind of funny, but he likes him.” “Invite him to the house Saturday”, Lester responded. “Your friend needs to hear some real Armstrong.” This pivotal meeting occurred during Thanksgiving weekend in 1937 [Avakian recalled it was 1936, but 1937 seems to fit the timeline better; either way, it happend!] and was fondly remembered by Avakian in his 2000 JazzTimes piece, writing: “Wow! I got instant religion with a capital R. It was my introduction to ‘Cornet Chop Suey,’ ‘West End Blues,’ ‘Struttin’ With Some Barbecue’ and more. All the discs were thickly solid with magenta or red labels bearing the name Okeh in script. ‘Where can I buy them?’ I asked. ‘You can’t,’ said Les. ‘They’re all out of print now. Brunswick owns Okeh, but they’re just sitting on them.’ ‘That’s criminal,’ I said. ‘I’m going to write them a letter.’ I did and received no answer.” Avakian graduated from Horace Mann and enrolled in Yale University soon after. Moving to New Haven, Connecticut, he became a regular presence in the jazz trades, writing more letters to Metronome (he was at the famed “battle” at the Savoy between Chick Webb and Count Basie in January 1938 and thought Basie emerged victorious). Producer/impresario John Hammond name-checked him and other “Yale men” spotted at a performance by trumpeter Billy Douglas in the March 1938 issue of Tempo. That magazine gave him the opportunity to write a review of a Madison Square Garden concert with Basie and Goodman in July 1938 (with the unfortunate typo “Avarkian). Tempo also featured a “Collector’s Corner” column by Marshall Stearns, one of the most influential of the early jazz historians (and the man ultimately responsible for the Institute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers). While still a freshman at Yale, Avakian decided to seek out Stearns, who was a graduate student at the same university. Here’s Avakian in 2000: “I rang the doorbell at 20 Lake Place, the address listed under the by-line of Marshall Stearns’ Collector’s Corner column in Tempo magazine. I had learned from a fellow freshman, Jerry King, that this gracious man held an open house every Friday evening for anyone who wanted to listen to and talk about jazz records. Marshall’s collection, one of the best in the world at the time, exposed me to virtually the entire gamut of early jazz records, as well as the rest of the Hot Fives and Sevens. I’d only been able to find perhaps five or six of these rarities, and it still rankled me that the public couldn’t buy them over the counter (though three or four had become available via special order through the United Hot Clubs of America, of which Marshall had been a principal organizer). By the end of my freshman year (June 1938), Marshall had tired of writing Collector’s Corner and turned it over to me.” Here’s a wonderful photo of Avakian and Stearns from this period, taken from Avakian’s collection at the New York Public Library: Indeed, Avakian’s “New York News” column debuted in the September 1938 issue of Tempo. He covered the latest happenings in the Big Apple, but he also included a small “Collector’s Corner” segment and was keeping tabs on the reissues that were trickling out on labels like Hot Record Society, writing one long column about Brunswick waiting too long to reissue King Oliver’s “Dippermouth Blues,” having been beaten to the punch by Steve Smith’s Hot Record Society. By May 1939, Avakian’s column was now called “Collector’s Corner” and was exclusively chronocling the reissue scene, noting that, “Up at American Records John Hammond dug up five previously unknown Louis Armstrong accompaniments. They’ll be issued shortly along with several other fine repressings, including a Bix album.” Avakian also shared that “Bluebird announced its complete list of repressings,” including 1920s works by Fats Waller and Jelly Roll Morton. Avakian said this was the result of an idea by John Reid of Philadelphia and someone should “pin a medal on him.” Avakian, too, had ideas and recalled that “[Stearns] and Jerry encouraged me to write again to Brunswick about starting a reissue program. This time I went well beyond the Hot Fives and Sevens, writing pages and pages of specifics concerning more than a dozen artists and citing the need for annotated albums because there was so little published information about the music and the performers. I got a brief acknowledgement letter in return, but nothing more.” Perhaps part of the reason Avakian didn’t get a response is because of the labels were going through a time of transition. “By the end of 1939, the popular acceptance of swing music had aroused a glimmer of interest in its origins,” Avakian wrote. “The Columbia Broadcasting System had just bought the bankrupt American Recording Corporation and started phasing out its principal label name, Brunswick. Edward Wallerstein, president of the newly revived Columbia Records label, decided that the time was right for the company to embark on a serious program of jazz reissues.” John Hammond, a cornerstone of the American Recording Corporation, was retained by Columbia and was approached by Wallerstein “to inaugurate a reissue program, to be called ‘Hot Jazz Classics,'” Avakian recalled. “But John had helped launch the bandleading careers of Benny Goodman and Count Basie and was more interested in new record production. He told Mr. Wallerstein, ‘A young fellow I know writes a collector’s column for Tempo; he could do it better than I can, and he’s at Yale University, just 25 miles from our factory at Bridgeport.” By this point, though, Avakian was busy helping Decca records on a groundbreaking project, mostly because they answered his letter first. “I started writing letters to record companies urging that jazz — including reissues of unavailable classics — should be released in album form, because it was worthy of preservation and study beyond the three-minute 78-rpm side, and with extensive annotation similar to those in classical albums for symphonies, operas, etc., complete with histories of the music, its performers and their historic significance,” he told NPR in 2010. “My first answer came years later — a one-cent postcard from Decca, inviting me to stop by during my 1939 summer vacation to discuss my idea … beginning with new recordings by the pioneers of the three cities where jazz became established — New Orleans, Chicago and Kansas City.” Decca put Avakian in charge of producing new sessions featuring guitarist Eddie Condon’s group in October 1939, to be featured on Chicago Jazz, the first jazz concept album featuring new recordings with a common theme, liner notes, and session photos. Again, from the NYPL, here’s a period photo of Condon and Avakian: But Avakian didn’t go on to produce Decca’s New Orleans Jazz and Kansas City Jazz sets (those honors went to Steve Smith of the Hot Record Society and Dave Dexter Jr., respectively) because by early 1940, Avakian had heard back from Columbia Records. Here’s more from JazzTimes: “Mr. Wallerstein invited me to come to a meeting on Washington’s Birthday in 1940 at which the reissue idea would be discussed. He began by asking Mr. L. J. Morrison, the factory manager, to read some letters from the public about reissuing jazz. Mr. Morrison read one, and as he glanced with some misgiving at the pages of enclosures, I spoke up. “Excuse me, sir, I think I wrote that letter in 1938.” “So you did,” said Mr. Morrison. “Did you get a reply?” asked Mr. Wallerstein. “Yes, sir; that this was a matter for the advertising department in New York to consider, and I would hear from them shortly.’ “And did you?” “No, sir.” ‘Well, you’ve got an answer now. We like your proposal of four albums and some singles on each release. Can you come to Bridgeport once a week? ‘Yes, sir!” It was a dream come true. On Thursdays I had only one early class, and my roommate, Ray Fuller, had a reasonably reliable old sedan. At the Columbia factory there were three large rooms with thousands of metal masters, floor to ceiling, filed in numerical blocks. A great many had no other identifications but armed with a 1938 edition of Charles Delaunay’s Hot Discography and my own notebooks, I started researching.” ****************** For the next part of the story, we’re going to continue to let Avakian tell it, but this time we’re going to go way back to the December 1940 issue of Jazz Information, when Avakian penned the article, “How I Found the Unissued Armstrongs.” As backstory, Avakian was now officially working with Columbia and planning an Armstrong album to be titled King Louis. The original plan was for it to contain six sides: “Heebie Jeebies,” “Potato Head Blues,” “Squeeze Me,” “No One Else But You,” “Save It, Pretty Mama,” and “Knockin’ a Jug.” But on one soon-to-be-legendary day in Bridgeport, Avakian made some truly historic discoveries–here’s the complete story from 1940 (to set the table, here’s the cover of that issue, featuring an image of Sidney Bechet): How I Found The Unissued Armstrongs By George M. Avakian I had left my watch in New York the day before, and when I woke up that Friday morning in Bridgeport. I had no idea what time it was. But the sun was pouring in the window, so I got up anyway and went down to the Columbia office. That’s how the unissued Armstrongs were discovered. For it was only eight o’clock when I got to the office, and like most lazy loafers I didn’t want to start before anyone else did. To kill time, I looked through the huge pile of Louis Armstrong contracts which Mr. Seton, Columbia’s lawyer, had left in my care given to the accounting department. It was mostly legal stuff which I couldn’t understand, but an occasional letter from Louis made it interesting. In the last thick folder was a list of all the titles and master numbers which Louis had recorded and been paid for during 1927 and 1928. One of the selections looked unfamiliar — then another — and another — I realized that they had never been released! But I had run into this sort of thing before – twenty or more Bessies, for instance, which had been made but destroyed without being used (thank God that somehow ‘Cakewalkin’ Babies’ and ‘At The Christmas Ball’ survived). So I restrained the impulse to get excited. However, having lots of time, I decided to check up on the numerical Okeh master file, just to be sure. I had gone through it before, but the file cards represented released material only. Any unknown masters were indicated by blank white cards. I looked up the first number … 80851 … and there it was: a white card with nothing on it but the number pencilled in one corner. The room got kind of hot and cold, but I swallowed hard and fumbled for the next number. It was 80864, and when another white card turned up I had to stop for a minute and let the floor settle down. Enough to say that three others followed and Avak was running a gentle 104°. Wondering if there could be some mistake, I checked against the master inventory sheets. Five again — but not the same five! There was one in the file card system which hadn’t been inventoried, and one in the inventory which wasn’t among the file cards. That made six in all — maybe. Just to be sure, I went down to the master room with one of the boys to pick them off the shelves, and we came upstairs with six beautiful Okeh masters. Get these six into the Louis album, I thought. But that very Friday was the last day for putting through the initial release of Hot Jazz Classics! It always works out that way, doesn’t it? A break came on the next Wednesday. A final check-up was made on the titles chosen for the Armstrong album and there was a slight hitch on the couplings selected for Squeeze Me and Knockin’ A Jug. “Shove in two other Armstrongs,” I was told. It was too late to make tests of the unissued masters, but by Monday morning they were processed to a stage where I could listen copper positives.There was a tense moment as the first one began. What if the masters were all Italian tenors singing Pagliacci, or Reverend Gates and his Congregation? But the first two spins of ‘S.O.L. Blues’ brought relief. Among the rest was ’12th Street Rag.’ I knew there would be no difficulty in clearing authorship and copyright on these two, so they went into the works as the new couplings. Lucky? Sure. I had been scouring the files for six months; yet I would have located only two of the six if I had simply checked the master numbers adjoining known Armstrong sessions. The other four are, as George Beall would say, “orphans”. They’re all alone in the numerical series, surrounded by Sophie Tucker and Sam Lanin’s Famous Players. The discovery of the unissued Armstrongs was, I think, the most exciting thing that’s ever happened to me as a record collector. And, best of all, it’s a break which can be shared with all record collectors. ****************** So what were “the unissued Armstrongs”? “S. O. L. Blues” and “Twelfth Street Rag” were two Hot Seven sides that Avakian immediately got onto the reissue album he was working on. But there were also mysteries like “Chicago Breakdown” by a unknown large ensemble, something called “Slidin'” that sounded suspiciously like “Ory’s Creole Trombone,” plus “The Last Time” with the original Hot Five and “Don’t Jive Me” with the Earl Hines edition. Avakian needed answers and there was only one man who could provide them: Louis Armstrong. Avakian had met Armstrong once before when he came to New Haven and attended a dinner hosted by Marshall Stearns. Avakian told this story to Italian filmmaker Michele Cinque in 2012, an interview we proudly host in our Archives; here’s this segment: Avakian caught up with Armstrong backstage at the Apollo Theater, most likely around the time Armstrong opened there on May 2, 1940. “When I gave Louis a set of the newly discovered test pressings in the spring of 1940 (there were six Hot Fives and Sevens in all, plus half a dozen others) his delight was boundless, especially after we both realized that a few months later these unidentified metal masters would have been automatically recycled because wartime scrap drives had increased as Hitler’s armies advanced, even though America was still considered neutral,” Avakian recalled. “Although I was half his age and still going to school, Louis treated me as a friend, not an eager fan.” Perhaps now is a good time to share some audio! In 1993, Avakian discovered several reel-to-reel tapes in his basement and drove them out to the Louis Armstrong Archives, where Michael Cogswell transferred them and added them to the collection. On one of the tapes was an interview with a broadcaster I have not been able to identify, but it’s a great segment as Avakian tells the tale of discovering the unissued sides, bringing them to Louis, and then being invited by Louis to meet his new girlfriend: Lucille Wilson. This was one of Avakian’s favorite stories, one he told it on camera to Michele Cinque in 2012 and is definitely worth sharing again: As the Hot Jazz Classics series geared up for release in October 1940, the Columbia publicity juggurnaut kicked into high gear, creating a lot of buzz for these albums. From the NYPL collection, here’s an advertisement for the first batch of releases, four albums and a slew of singles: And also from the NYPL, a charming photo of Avakian “unboxing” a set of “Hot Jazz Classics” releases: And without further ado, the cover art of that historic release, King Louis, designed by the legendary Alex Steinweiss, then 23-years-old and a recent hire as Columbia’s art director: Avakian personally gave a copy to Louis, who turned around and gave to Lucille. Both Avakian and Armstrong signed this copy of King Louis–Avakian wrote, “Lucille, I hope you go for this Louis fella and these records for a long time,” and Louis added, “Yes ma’am”–and it remains in our Archives to this day. (The green ink is severely faded so it doesn’t reproduce well in the scan, but it’s still a charming artifact!) Perhaps we should take a moment to share the music contained on King Louis? Here it is, courtesy of a Spotify playlist: Columbia seemed to make sure that every newspaper and magazine received a copy so media coverage of King Louis was quite copious; a large sampling will appear below. First up, “Barrelhouse Dan” (has he ever been properly identified?), the record reviewer in Down Beat: Some of Louis’ greatest vocal and horn work is included here, most of it made with his Hot Five and Hot Seven, and featuring Earl Hines, Zutty Singleton and others. ‘Knockin’ a Jug’ is the best, featuring Jack Teagarden, Eddie Lang, Joe Sullivan and Happy Caldwell, as well as Satchmo himself. But all of the sides are good examples of early Louis. ‘S.O.L.’ and ‘12th Street’ have never before been issued. Credit for all this output must go first to Columbia’s officials, and secondly, to John Hammon and George M. Avakian, who supervised the issuing of platters, checked personnels, and prepared the finished sides. The Armstrong album is the best of the four and should be heard by everyone interested in jazz. ****************** Here’s Howard Taubman in the New York Times, November 3, 1940: If you are a connoisseur of hot jazz from way back, or even if you arrived at a taste for it recently, outstanding names of the Twenties are as familiar to you as the current leaders in the field. If you are still on the outside looking in, or have peeked in only to turn away in disappointment, perhaps an encounter with the top-notch old-timers will give you a new perspective. At any rate, Columbia has gone back to its files and has rediscovered what it calls the Hot Jass Classics. These are to be reissued periodically. Columbia is aiming at the fancier who wants duplicates or wishes to fill in gaps in his collection. It is also seeking to attract “the listener who is interested in modern native musical developments and wishes to attain a deeper appreciation of it.” […] Some of the numbers in the albums and on the singles have not been released before. Others are “second masters.” As to the “second masters,” Columbia’s announcement says that they “are a source of special excitement to jazz fanciers. The released master of a recording date may not be the best, according to a jazz connoisseur’s viewpoint. Therefore, many of the so-called ‘second masters’ are superior from the hot angle to the ones originally released.” […] It is impossible to list all the instrumentalists who back up the big names in the various records. But in listening one understands why these musicians and their playing of another day is recalled with ecstasy by these who like hot jazz. For, whatever you may think of their music, they were artists at it. Armstrong and Henderson are still around, and their talents are undiminished. But these records show how their styles had already formed. And you understand why the names of Bessie Smith and Bix Beiderbecke are now virtually legends. There is a vitality and earthiness in the music and especially in the performers. There is breathtaking virtuosity on the part of the instrumentalists in solo and ensemble work. Bessie Smith’s singing is memorable, not for vocal quality but for its style and suggestiveness. The connoisseurs find a world of variety in these selections. Perhaps they are right. But you need not go overboard with them to concede that hot jazz at its best is worth your attention as music and as a social phenomenon. ****************** Here’s Frank Marshall Davis (a mentor of President Barack Obama) reviewing it for the Associated Negro Press: The first album of the highly publicized re-issue of hot jazz classics fittingly devoted to the unequalled trumpet work of Louis Armstrong, Consisting of four records, the collection bears the title of “King Louis.” Numbers and dates of recording are “Heebie Jeebies” (1926) and “Potatoe Head Blues” (1927); “S.O.L. Blues” (1927) and “Squeeze Me” (1928); “Save It, Pretty Mama” (1928) and “No One Else But You” (1928); “Twelfth Street Rag’ (1927) and “Knockin’ a Jug” (1929). Of these tunes, “S.O.L.” and “Twelfth Street” have never been released, all of which makes them doubly interesting to the thousands of Satchmo followers. Playing with him were such other greats as Johnny Dodds, clarinet; Lil Armstrong, piano; Baby Dodds, drums; Kid Ory, trombone; Johnny St. Cyr, banjo; and Pete Diggs [sic], bass. Of unusual interest are the clarinet chorus on the first side, and the lazy trombone and tuba on the – rag, which is, incidentally, about as slow I have heard it played. Armstrong muffs a few notes but his trumpet is so grand otherwise that this doesn’t necessarily detract. “Squeeze Me,” “Save It” and “No One Else” all have Earl Hines performing marvelously at the keyboard along with Zutty Singleton’s drumming. “Heebies” was Louie’s first big selling record and on which singing was introduced. “Potato Head” has a trumpet chorus that is unbelievably out of this world. But, of course, the cream of the album is the famous “Knockin’ a Jug,” one of the grandest blues in all jazz history, with Trombonist Jack Teagarden, Guitarist Eddie Lang, Tenorman Happy Cauldwell, Pianist Joe Sullivan and Drummer Kaiser Marshall. Armstrong today remains the world’s greatest trumpeter. But when the discs in this album were cut, he was as far over his present form as Ellington’s band is over the Chitlin’ Stompers of Hogwash, Texas. Well, maybe not that much. But anyway, for really righteous jazz, this is what the doctor prescribed. ****************** Davis was a major Armstrong supporter in the Black press, still believing him to be “the world’s greatest trumpeter” in 1940–yet, he also adds that the Armstrong in the 1920s was “far over his present form,” the first of many knocks the presentday Armstrong would have to endure. As we discussed last time, the original Hot Five with Kid Ory, Johnny Dodds, Johnny St. Cyr, and Lil Hardin Armstrong was usually put down at the expense of the later edition with Earl Hines whenever these records were discussed in print in the early 1930s. Though King Louis only had one selection by that group–“Heebie Jeebies”–and three with Hines, it was enough for some writers to reverse the conventional opinion and champion the work of the earlier lineup. For example, in the December 20, 1940 issue of Jazz Information, Robert Quinlisk did a deep dive on King Louis, praising “Heebie Jeebies” because “In this period Louis was very New Orleans” and “the opening ensemble swings incredibly.” But when Quinlisk gets to the Hines sides, he calls them “wonderful” but adds “few of them have the freshness and drive of the early Hot Fives.” Something was changing. Over in the San Francisco Chronicle, their jazz writer, “Jive,” explained that “These records are from the primitive period in Louis’ development–the late ’20s, when this greatest of Jazz musicians was just ripening toward his golden period of popularity.” Now, “primitive” seemed like a compliment. “All these tunes show the strong earmarks of Negro New Orleans style–very different from the modern Ellington or Kansas City styles, or the white Dixieland copy,” Jive wrote. “Harsh and austere, full of raucous instrumental stunting, this music is going to be hard for some to like, and we can only assure you that the effort to understand it will prove rewarding. There never was purer jazz than the original New Orleans: The word ‘commercial’ just has no meaning in this connection.” Jive concluded his review with, “If you wanted a compact selection of early Armstrong which would give you the cream of his works, you couldn’t have chosen better than this album does for you.” Not everyone felt that way. In our last installment, we shared part of a 1937 Down Beat article by Paul Eduard Miller of Chicago who argued that Armstrong’s role as an important figure in the devlopment of jazz was “overemphasized” because he wasn’t really a bandleader until 1929. The release of King Louis didn’t change his mind. “Not much as music,” is how Miller began his review in the December 1940 issue of Music and Rhythm. “This album might serve high school kids as an introduction to the Louis Armstrong of the latter 1920’s-but hardly anything more than that. With the single exception of Potato Head, these eight sides are not, as Columbia’s press department would have you believe, ‘the cream’ of Armstrong’s Okeh platters. The content of ‘the cream’ suffers considerably by the omission of West End Blues, Wild Man Blues, Savoy Blues, Drop That Sack, Cornet Chop Suey, Muggles, Weather Bird, I’m Not Rough, Skip the Gutter, and Knee Drops. This release fails to measure up to the high standards which, presumably, Columbia is assuming in its presentation of ‘hot jazz classics.'” One month later, Miller dug in even further with a short “Musical Blasephemies” column about Armstrong in the January 1941 issue of Music and Rhythm. Here it is, in all its unglory: Phew. There it is, the beginning of an argument that would not die down for the rest of the century. Miller might not have been impressed with the selections on King Louis but perhaps they made him realize that the Armstrong of 1941 was “no longer a vital force in hot jazz.” “Gradually he substituted these meaningless pyrotechnics for the more sober, more sincere performances of the days of the Armstrong Hot Five,” Miller continued. “Armstrong had chosen to play exclusively for the box-office.” Armstrong and Avakian would remain lifelong friends, but ironically, Avakian’s efforts to shine a light on Armstrong’s rarest, earliest recordings as a leader set the trumpeter up to unfairly compete with his younger self, a competition that would endure for the rest of his career and beyond. [Side note: Miller will return in the next part of this series, but it should be mentioned that Armstrong was aware of Miller’s column; a copy of it was found in his collection after his wife Lucille passed away in 1983. Also found in the collection? A copy of Miller’s 1943 Yearbook of Popular Music–inscribed by the author! Here’s the cover: And here’s the inscription–to “The greatest and most influential trumpeter in jazz history.” Hmmmmmm….] But as the calendar turned to 1941, it was clear that Columbia’s “Hot Jazz Classics” series was a hit. Though still attending Yale, Avakian would be tapped to produce two more Armstrong reissues in 1941, ones that focused squarely on both the original Hot Five and the combination with Earl Hines. Armstrong also hired a publicity service that compiled all of his press clippings into a scrapbook for the year 1941–we’ll share many of those clippings and continue the saga of Armstrong, the Hot Five, Columbia Records, George Avakian, and the canonization of jazz history in Part 6–thanks for reading!


--- [George Avakian | National Endowment for the Arts] ---
George Avakian Bio "To receive a 2010 National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master Fellowship Award is a culminating honor that confirms my long-held belief: Live long enough, stay out of jail, and you'll never know what might happen!" George Avakian—recipient of the 2010 A.B. Spellman NEA Jazz Masters Fellowship for Jazz Advocacy—is a record producer and industry executive known particularly for his production of jazz and popular albums at Columbia Records, including the first regular series of reissues of jazz albums. In 1948, he helped establish the 33 1/3-rpm LP as the primary format for popular music. Avakian was born in Russia to Armenian parents, who moved the family to New York City in the early 1920s. In his teens he became enamored of jazz through radio programs such as Let's Dance with Benny Goodman. While a student at Yale University, Avakian convinced Decca Records to let him produce a 78-rpm record of Eddie Condon, Pee Wee Russell, and others from the 1920s jazz scene in Chicago. Entitled Chicago Jazz, the recordings marked the first time jazz songs were produced in an album format rather than as singles. In 1940, he was asked by Columbia to produce the industry's first annotated reissue album series, called Hot Jazz Classics, which included seminal out-of-print selections from Louis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, Bix Beiderbecke, Fletcher Henderson, and Duke Ellington. He included the first-ever unreleased and alternate takes in the series. In effect, he had created the first history of jazz on records. After service in the U.S. Army during World War II, Avakian began his 12-year tenure as a Columbia Records executive, eventually presiding over its Popular Music and International Divisions. At the same time, he was acquiring a reputation as a jazz researcher and critic of some renown, having pieces printed in Tempo, DownBeat, Metronome, Mademoiselle, Pic, and the New York Times. Concerned about the lack of jazz education, in 1946 Avakian started a course in jazz history at the university level at New York University. In 1948, Avakian introduced the LP record format created by Columbia engineers and produced the industry's first 100 long-playing discs of popular music and jazz. Two years later, he released the original 1938 recording of Benny Goodman's Carnegie Hall concert -- one of the first jazz albums to sell more than a million copies. This inspired him to use the long-play format for something new -- the live recording. From 1959 onward, Avakian served as producer at Warner Brothers, World Pacific, RCA Victor, and Atlantic, among others. During the early 1960s, Avakian branched out, becoming the manager of Charles Lloyd and later of Keith Jarrett. He has received a knighthood from the Knights of Malta (1984); the former Soviet Union's highest decoration (the Order of Lenin (1990)); a Lifetime Achievement Award from DownBeat magazine (2000); and Europe's prestigious jazz award, the Django d'Or (2006). In 2008, France bestowed on him the rank of Commandeur des Arts et Lettres, and in 2009 he received the Trustees Award from the National Association of Recording Arts and Sciences for contributions to the music industry worldwide. Selected Discography Louis Armstrong, Plays W. C. Handy, Columbia, 1954 Duke Ellington, Ellington at Newport, Columbia, 1956 Miles Davis and Gil Evans, Miles Ahead, Columbia, 1957 Benny Goodman, In Moscow, RCA Victor, 1962 Sonny Rollins, Our Man in Jazz, RCA Victor, 1962-63 Interview by Molly Murphy for the NEA July 23, 2009 Edited by Don Ball FAMILY HISTORY NEA: Could you tell us a bit about your family's history? George Avakian: My father's family had lived for well over a hundred years in the western part of Iran, which used to be Armenia until the Persians took over it. And the family business was wiped out when the Turkish armies came through the western part of Iran to attack the Caucuses. And so they fled, obviously because the village was virtually wiped out by the Turks, being an Armenian village. And the result was that they were living hand-to-mouth, the whole family, in southern Russia. But there was a Persian gentleman who was the family company's best customer, who owed quite a lot of money but couldn't pay it because of currency restrictions during and after the war. So he sent 92 bales of Persian carpets to New York City to be held at the Guarantee Trust Company until a member of the Avakian family could come and prove that he was a representative of the ownership of the carpets. My father was sent by his older brothers in 1921. NEA: Did you grow up speaking Armenian? George Avakian: Well, I spoke Armenian and Russian, and my parents decided that the children should continue to speak Armenian but forget Russian, for various reasons. Mostly they believed strongly that we must learn English in order to get along in the United States. And as a result, the language began to fascinate me when I was a kid. And I remember very well beginning to read books in the library after I'd gone into the first grade or kindergarten, I can't remember which. And, in fact, I remember the first book that I got excited about was a slim volume which the librarian told me I that I could follow up with another book by the same person. And on my third visit I said, "Did this man write any more stories like this? " and she said, "Yes, comes with me." She took me to the back and on the shelf there was a huge volume so big that I almost couldn't carry it and it was the Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. You know, the Sherlock Holmes stories introduced me to the English language in a remarkably strong way and this interest kept right on into high school when I discovered Shakespeare and so forth. INTRODUCTION TO JAZZ NEA: When did you first discover jazz? George Avakian: [During high school,] one of the luckiest things of all, in terms of what followed in my career, was that I'd gotten interested in this strange music that I heard on the radio late at night, which reminded me a little bit of a folk music records that my parents had brought over -- the Armenian folk music: lively, peppy dances, and beautiful, nostalgic, sentimental melodies. I didn't realize that I was listening to a better class of American music, jazz. I didn't like what I heard on the radio, most of which was like "Yes, We Have No Bananas" and so forth. I gradually discovered that it was people with strange names like Duke Ellington and Fats Waller and, of course, Louis Armstrong. I got very interested in the music that I heard on a program called Let's Dance, which featured three studio bands, one of them directed by Benny Goodman. And when Goodman went on tour after the program stopped, he went onto the West Coast where the young people had heard him at seven o'clock in the evening instead of ten o'clock at night the way I did and he found that he was wildly popular. In fact, by the time he came back to New York in September of 1936, he was the bestselling artist on record. And I decided I am going to interview this man for the Horace Mann School newspaper, which I could do because I was the editor at that time. The problem was, how to do it? It turned out that one of my classmates had a mother who was on the Democratic Committee of New York City and she said the chairman owns the Hotel Pennsylvania where Benny Goodman is about to appear. Maybe she could set it up. She did. Goodman consented to an interview. He liked the article that I wrote and told his right-hand man (he just had one employee in those days), "Anytime George and his friend Charlie want to come to hear the band, get them a good table." And it eventually reached the point where he also said that if your parents allow you to stay up late, come listen to the rehearsals on Saturday night after midnight because they would rehearse the new pop tunes of the day for the commercial program that they had, The Camel Caravan, on NBC. That relationship blossomed into getting to know these musicians and broadening my growing record collection, which really took a huge boost when another classmate sent the Goodman interview to his brother, who was a senior at Dartmouth and was a serious jazz record collector. And the brother said to his younger brother, "Ask George what he thinks of Louis Armstrong." Well, Julian Koenig was the young classmate. He asked me and I said, "Well, he plays a lot of trumpet and he sings kind of funny, but I like him." The older brother, Lester Koenig, said to Julian, "Obviously, he hasn't heard the real Armstrong. Bring him to the house on the Saturday after Thanksgiving when I'm home. I'm going to knock his ears off." And he did by playing the Okeh records, the original Armstrong in 1920s and '30s, which were so totally out of print that I didn't know they existed. I got wildly excited and said, "How can I get these? " They said, "Well, you can't find them. They're out of print." I said, "Who owns them? "He said, "The Brunswick Record Company." "Where are they? " "Oh, they're in the phone book. Write them a letter." Well, that started a campaign that went on for two or three years. No answers. The big breakthrough for me was the good fortune of going to Yale because off campus there was a man named Marshall Stearns [who] gave his collection eventually to Rutgers University and established the Institute of Jazz Studies there. Marshall was going for a PhD in English literature. He graduated from Harvard. He was the foremost writer on jazz in the United States at the time and had the best record collection probably of anybody. And this small but remarkable collection was the keystone of an invitation he extended to me and another classmate, who, like myself, began to buy what we called "swing records" at the time, and said, "Every Friday night I have an open house. Anybody who wants to come and listen to records and talk about them is welcome." Well, I spent virtually every Friday night at Marshall Stearns' listening to a complete history, known at the time, of jazz. This enabled me to not only get a picture of a whole history of jazz as recorded in the '20s and all, but Marshall asked me to cover a Battle of the Bands on New Year's Eve at Madison Square Garden between the Count Basie Orchestra and the Benny Goodman Orchestra. Basie had become my great favorite by then. And I did. I was paid $6 and a six-cent airmail envelope sent to me by the editor of Tempo magazine in California and said, "If you write about more things like this, use this envelope and you'll get $6 again." That started me as a jazz writer. And the development that finally nailed everything down was Marshall turning over his Collector's column to me so that I began to develop a reputation of being an expert you could ask questions of about"who played on this record" and all that, which I knew about through two sources. One, of course, was Marshall himself, but before that Lester Koenig had told me on Thanksgiving weekend of 1936 that if I wanted to know more about this music there were no books that would help me in the United States. But since I took French at Horace Mann, he assumed that my French had to be pretty good, and he said, "Send an $8 money order to a shop in Paris, and ask them to send you Charles Delaunay's Hot Discography and Le Jazz Hot by Hugues Panassié." He said, The Panassié book will give you the story of great musicians and why they are great and also recommend records for listening. And the Delaunay book is the first book which cataloged personnel, dates, master numbers of important jazz records." PRODUCING JAZZ NEA: How did writing the column lead to producing jazz collections? George Avakian: This enabled me to develop an idea that grew and grew during my freshman and sophomore years -- that jazz is something that should not just be on single discs, two-sided 78-rpm records that run three minutes apiece, no information except whatever is on the label. Jazz should be treated at length, the way opera and classical music is, and it should be annotated the same way, with stories of the background of the music, why it's interesting, why it's important. Well, I didn't get very far with letters to the record companies until almost out of the blue Decca Records, which had been putting out album collections, called. (By the way, I should say that albums were very unimportant in pop music, singles were everything. ) Decca pioneered emphasizing pop albums in the way of, let's say, assembling Bing Crosby's recordings of Hawaiian music when he made a film about Hawaii. This idea is what inspired me to suggest jazz should be treated in package form with a unified idea for each album and there should also be reissues of the great classic jazz, which is forgotten. Decca picked me up on the idea of packaging jazz. They said, "We've gotten this letter that you written. Come in, we want to talk about it." The letter suggested that they start a series of jazz albums beginning with three albums, which would be attributed to the pioneers of jazz in New Orleans, Kansas City, and Chicago. I left out New York because I didn't like the New York jazz musicians particularly, except for let's say Bix Beiderbecke and people like that, who are really Midwesterners anyway. The upshot was that they told me, "Go ahead and produce these three albums as a start." I chose the Chicago album because that was easy. The Chicago musicians were young teenagers hanging around King Oliver and Louis Armstrong and had moved to New York. That was the gang of guys known as the Austin High School Gang because that Austin High was where several students got together and began imitating what they heard of Armstrong and Oliver. That was Eddie Condon, Bud Freeman, Dave Tough, people like that. The album was completed and they said, "Now why don't you go on and do the next one? " I said, "Wait a minute. I didn't ask you about getting paid and you haven't said anything yet." And Bob Stevens, who was the one I've been working with at Decca, said, "How about six bits? "Well, I'd finally realize it's cowboy slang for $75. But I spent more than $75 to go to Chicago to record a group with Jimmy McFarland. The plan that I'd use was three different groups representing the different aspects of early Chicago jazz. I thought to myself, "Well, here I am over my head. This isn't for me. If I ask for a hundred and fifty dollars, they'll give me a hundred dollars. It isn't worthwhile pursuing this." So, I said, "Okay," and I got a 12-page booklet -- the first one ever of the sort on jazz [included with the album]. And they said, "How about the rest of the of the plan? Who can record the Kansas City album, the New Orleans album? "I said, "That's easy. Give my notes to Dave Dexter," who was the hotshot crime reporter for the Kansas City Star and became the editor of Downbeat that year. He knows the jazz, he knows Kansas City. And Steve Smith to do the New Orleans part because he and his partner Bill Russell had explored New Orleans jazz before almost anyone else. And so, I thought to myself, "Okay, I've done the sensible thing, now concentrate on my studies." But right away Columbia Records asked me to come and talk about the idea of program of jazz reissues. Obviously, they had seen the letters that I had written. So I went there and Mr. Wallerstein opened the meeting by saying, "We're here to discuss the idea of using this great catalog of out-of-print masters, which we have absorbed." A company called the American Record Corporation bought up these bankrupt companies, labels like OKeh, Columbia, and so forth. And they represented about two-thirds of all the popular records ever recorded in the United States. But they were just sitting there on the factory shelves. Mr. Wallerstein turned to the factory management and said, "Mr. Morrison, would you read some of the letters that we received about this idea of reissuing jazz? "Mr. Morrison read one letter, paused, because there were six pages closely typed attached to the letter. I thought I'd better speak up. I said, "Mr. Morrison, I believe I wrote that letter." He looked and said, "Oh, so you did, two years ago." Mr. Wallerstein said, "Did you get an answer? "I said, "Yes, sir. The answer was that the publicity department in New York handles such matters and you will hear from them shortly." He said, "Did you hear from them? "I said, "No, sir." He said, "Well, you're hearing from me now." He hired me for $25 a week to come on Thursdays, because I had said I only had one class in the morning, go into the vaults, choose anything I wanted to reissue in the form of albums and single records, which would represent the history of jazz. NEA: And you mentioned listening on those Friday nights with Marshall Stearns and other people. I think that's such an interesting experience to listen as a group to something and understand what other people are hearing. George Avakian: Exactly, exactly. At this point I had quite a deep knowledge of what was available, and I was inspired to keep probing to the extent that when the war came along and the Hot Jazz Classic Series at Columbia was dropped because of the problem of the shellac supply (which was necessary to the manufacturer of 78 rpm discs) being cut off by the Japanese who invaded Malaysia. Ninety percent of the world's shellac came out of Malaysia. And of course I got drafted, went into the Army for four and a half years. But I kept up with the music and the musicians. And in fact even produced another recording session for a friend of mine, Charles Edward Smith, who was one of the three authors of the best book that came out on jazz, the first really good one, called Jazzmen. Was asked by Moe Asch, who had a kind of a folk label, to produce a session with the daughter of W. C. Handy singing six of his songs. Charles had never produced a record, but we had become good friends during my college weekends in Manhattan. And he said, "Can you help out? "I said "Sure." So I produced these sessions and Miss Handy, Katherine Handy, had a voice that was absolutely wrong for the blues. She was a trained soprano and she sounded so awkward singing those songs. But one of them was called "Chantez Les Bas," a beautiful melody that I didn't know about. And I resolved that if I ever produce any more recordings I'm going to produce "Chantez Les Bas" with Louis Armstrong. In fact, that was the first idea of a whole album of W. C. Handy's music by Armstrong. There was no such thing as a W. C. Handy album in those days. In fact the only one that preceded the one I did at Columbia was the soundtrack counterpart album by Nat King Cole when he played the part of W. C. Handy in the film St. Louis Blues. NEA: You know it's so interesting to hear you talk about that time back in the 1940s when you were feeling the significance of trying to document the music and preserve the history of the music. Of course now we think of pre-1940s or even in the '40s as being still the kind of beginning of jazz. George Avakian: No, it really wasn't. And you're right about my carrying a torch for spreading the word about jazz because I got so excited about what a wonderful history this is and how good the music is. And that led directly to my having the opportunity to teach a jazz course at New York University when I got back out of the Army. And in order to do it, what was the text? The text was the recordings that I had reissued, literally. I followed that through for a number of years until it got to be a bit of a burden. Eventually Marshall Stearns himself came to New York City to teach at Hunter College and he took over the last stages of the course. And that's when he was inspired to donate his collection during his lifetime to start the Institute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers. The International Association for Jazz Education honored me and made a point of saying that I was the father of jazz education. I wasn't exactly, but the one that I started was the only one that continued for I guess about 10 or 12 years. And of course it petered out because NYU got into jazz studies as virtually every college did. LONG PLAYING NEA: Now you're also referred to as the father of the LP. George Avakian: Well that's true. This was a case of being in the right place at the right time and knowing what to do. In fact I finally realized that if I ever finish writing this book that I've been sort of writing for 50 odd years, the title should be Right Place, Right Time. When I came out of the Army I called Mr. Wallerstein because he had said, "When you come back from the Army, and if you want to work full-time in the record business, I'd love to speak to you." And I said, "Well it depends on my father. He wants me to go into the family business." NEA: This is the carpet business? George Avakian: Yes. When I came back I asked my father if it was all right to call him. He said "Sure, go ahead." Mr. Wallerstein immediately said, "What exactly did your father say? " He was an Old World person like my dad, a wonderful man. I said, "My father said, 'George you worked hard, got through Yale, went into the Army, came back in one piece, go ahead and enjoy yourself in the record business for a while, and when you want to be serious about life come into the family business,'" which I did 25 years later while still continuing as an artist manager and recording producer. Mr. Wallerstein laughed and said, "Come see me Monday morning." And he hired me at $50 a week and I was the young apprentice in the A&R staff, which was not called A&R even then. And I was given all the schlock work that the older people, of which there were only three, didn't feel like doing. But I did get a chance to do things like a couple of Frank Sinatra sessions filling in for my immediate boss, Manny Sax, in which Sinatra kind of sneered when he saw me. Someone who was only, I guess, two or three years younger than he. He called me "kid." We got along all right, except that I realized this is an arrogant man and he's going to do just what he wants to do and I'm here to be a traffic director and that's it. But two big things happened in 1947: Mr. Wallenstein told me, "George, start producing as many albums of pop music as you like, because our album catalog is very minimal and we think we can build it up." That was a nice thing to hear. He said, "You know the standard repertoire; Irving Berlin, Rodgers and Hart, and all that stuff. So start recording that music in album form." Also the elderly gentleman who was in charge of the international department retired and Mr. Wallenstein said, "Why don't you do that. It's a very easy thing. All you have to do is keep in touch with EMI. They furnish masters of foreign recordings and there are a few foreign language artists like Frankie Yankovic and his Yanks, the Polka king, Italian singers, and so forth that you will record here, but it's very easy. You just record what they have in their repertoire and the repertoire can be something that you can find out about by speaking to the man who was in charge of the sales of the international department here in Bridgeport in New York." I also got the reputation of having gotten the job as the only person in the New York office that spoke a foreign language, which happened to be true. Of course Armenian didn't help, but French and German I got to be pretty good at. So here I was running these two very unimportant departments and, all of a sudden, Mr. Wallenstein came into my office and said, "I'm going to tell you something that you have to keep to yourself. We think that we can develop a process whereby we can record an entire album on two sides of a disk, 33 rpm." There were 33-rpm turntables at radio stations, so the basis of it already existed. I thought this was such a great idea because, among other things, I can record jazz at length instead of three minutes stop, three minutes stop. Which is really the right way to do it. One of the things that I resolved to do was to plan jazz albums, if this ever happened, on a basis far beyond just a collection of single records. It came to pass that LP did come through. The program grew slowly because it took time for the public to buy the players that would make it possible. But by the time that we were able to expand the 10-inch LP, which was equal to the four pocket 78-rpm album, into 12 inches (which we felt should be the standard for pop music as well as for classical), the sales grew to such a degree that around 1953, 1954, certainly from 1955 and 1956, the long-playing pop record became much more important than the pop single. [However,] the emphasis on radio and in the trade journals continued to be the hit of the week kind of attitude, and the sales charts for single records were more important to the people in the business than album sales, partly because not that many companies were producing pop albums. They began to do it more and more as the market grew, but the smaller companies continued to just put out single records. NEA: And what was the public reception to the LPs? George Avakian: It was gigantic. It was so big that, by 1955, popular albums greatly outsold popular singles. Now we had Mitch Miller making hot singles all the time, but those records cost 98 cents and the profit was relatively small. Whereas the long-playing record at $3. 98 represented more profit and you got a four-to-one ratio of income coming in from the sale of the albums. This was a wonderful feeling to realize that what I had started at a very small scale had blossomed into the most important part of the record business. ELLINGTON AT NEWPORT NEA: The LP offered the opportunity to be able to do live recordings, which is so wonderful in jazz and we didn't really talk about that. I wonder if you could maybe choose a session and tell me about the process of doing live recordings. George Avakian: Sure. The idea of making long-playing live recordings was obviously something that I looked forward to, and the thing that was really the inspiration for it was the surfacing many years later of the acetates of Benny Goodman's Carnegie Hall concert which was the first million-selling recording album of course in the industry. I realized that there's an extra spark in many performances like that -- not every time but when it happens it happens big. And the other aspect was to do something that was in front of an audience, which would possibly inspire the musicians to a higher level. The first time I recorded a jazz festival was in New Orleans in 1955 and the second was the Newport Jazz Festival of '56, which was a huge breakthrough to such a degree that people made a big fuss about it: "Oh, these are the first recordings ever made at a jazz festival." And I went right along with it and said, "Yeah, that's right because nobody paid attention to the first one, at the New Orleans Jazz Festival." And the major thing is Duke Ellington and the performance of "Diminuendo and Crescendo in Blue," which was an accidental thing in terms of not having been planned. The Ellington appearance was to be highlighted by a new long composition dedicated to the Newport Festival. Ellington was more interested in his so-called serious long works than anything else, but they didn't sell on records. However, as a long-time friend of Ellington's and encourager of people who wanted to do offbeat things the way I did, I had recorded several of his compositions over the groans of the sales department. I called Duke and asked him if he could prepare a long composition for Newport in 1956. He said, "We don't really have something, but Billy Strayhorn and I are always working on things and we'll get something put together." I said, "I will ask George Wein if he will use some of my other artists and I will make a series of recordings at that festival." That's exactly what happened, and the lucky thing was that Duke improvised an idea after he got to the festival. I believe he had it beforehand but hadn't told anybody about it. Duke called me on the first day of the Newport Jazz Festival and said, "George, we have a problem with the new work. It's still pretty ragged. We haven't been able to rehearse it properly but we're committed." He didn't want to disappoint the public and the press by not being able to record the work after it had been promoted as a highlight of the festival. He said, "What can we do if there are mistakes? Can we prepare something? " I said, "Yeah, we can manage it." He said, "We're free on Monday after the festival, and the band will be relaxing at a hotel and if you book the studio, we can put some patches together and you can cover it up by various effects so it sounds as though it happened at the festival." I said, "It can be done." I found out that we couldn't get the big studio. I said, "Look, we can use a small studio at 7th Avenue and with echo chambers and equalization. It'll blend just fine." So that was the plan. Ellington called the musicians together who had been goofing off as they so often do just before they went on and he made a little speech. I wish I had recorded it because we had the equipment there but I remember it very well. He told the musicians, "Let's not worry about mistakes on the new work. It hasn't been prepared adequately. We all know that. However, I've arranged with George that we can repair any passages that don't work out on Monday. He's got a studio reserved in case we need it. Billy Strayhorn is going to follow the score. He's going to mark everything that he hears that has to be repaired. And so let's do that and not worry about exactness and precision. And after that, let's just relax and have a good time. Let's do the 'Diminuendoand Crescendo in Blue. '"Then everybody kind of smiled and laughed and so forth, except Paul Gonsalves who was standing next to Duke. He said, "Gee I don't know that one." Everyone laughed because, as Duke said, "Paul that's the blues, you know. We change keys and then I bring you on. You blow a solo and I take you out. We change keys and we're out. You've done it before." And he said, "Oh, yes, yes, yes." But Gonsalves was a junkie. He was pretty much high during that time, but he was a professional. He came through it beautifully except for one thing. He blew into the wrong microphone. Now we were recording at the same time as the Voice of America. The Voice of America had its own microphones and we had to depend on musicians who were being recorded blowing directly into our microphones, because we needed to have the sharpest sound, whereas the Voice of America was not so worried about exact sound. We started out by putting a white handkerchief or a rag of our microphones and telling each musician as they came up the steps and they would pass me, "Don't forget when you have to blow a solo blow into the microphone that has the white handkerchief." We eventually used white tape and everybody did that except Gonsalves, who simply went up there, screwed his eyes tight shut, and began blowing that fantastic solo. The first few bars were appalling because he was buried by the band and within a few seconds my assistant came running up the steps where I was at the side of the stage, and said, "What's going on? The engineer can't find him." I said, "Look, he's blowing off mic. Go tell him that we'll try to get his attention. Do the best he can." It was impossible to attract Gonsalves' attention. Ellington yelled at him, and you could hear him yelling, but Paul never paid any attention. After the first chorus or so, the engineer was able to get the balance a little bit better. When Duke came off the stage the first thing he said, "How did it go? "And I said, "Well I think the suite is fine, a couple of mistakes, but not a problem." And Duke said, "Well you don't know the work. I do." There was quite a bit to be done. I said, "Duke, we'll do it." He said, "Well you just have to." And he said, "What about Paul? "I said, "Well I think we can manage that too." And Duke said, "Well I hope so because I don't know if we'll get a performance like that again." I said, "Well, Duke, it's a fantastic performance. We'll put all the possibilities of equipment onto the task of fixing it." I think it was 28 choruses or something like that [that Paul Gonsalves played]. Anyway, so Duke told the musicians, "I'll call you around noon on Monday. Billy and I are going with George at nine o'clock to listen to the whole thing on tape and we'll know what to do." When it was finished, Strayhorn, who had stayed behind to help with the editing, took an acetate out to Duke. Duke called me up from somewhere in the Midwest, and his first words were, "Hi, George, I just have two things to tell you." And I thought, "Oh my God what are they going to be? "He said, "One is thank you and the other one is don't change a thing." THE BRIDGE NEA: What was it like recording Sonny Rollins for his legendary release, The Bridge? George Avakian: Recording Sonny Rollins was a very interesting thing because Sonny and I had become friends just by chatting backstage as he appeared with the Max Roach-Clifford Brown group. I took a great liking to him because he was a person with interests well beyond music, and he was quite a philosopher. Sonny retired from playing for a couple of years and was found by a jazz writer to be practicing at the upper reaches of the Williamsburg Bridge. I heard him at a club when he returned and realized that he was playing very, very well indeed. He was free at that point and I proposed that we record, and that the first recording would be called The Bridge and he should write a composition which would be appropriate. The publicity would be that Sonny Rollins has come down off the bridge and he is now bridging his past work to his present approach to music, which he developed while he was in semi-retirement. So this friendship that developed resulted in his signing to record with me at RCA where I had gone after Warner. The project with Sonny was planned to relate Sonny to different aspects of the music that he had grown out of and had developed. And so each of the albums had a different theme. One of them, of course, was to have him perform with his hero Coleman Hawkins, which was something that he wanted to do because Hawkins was the first great tenor saxophonist of all. Sonny had told me that when he came back from Europe in 1939 I guess it was, one of the first things he did was to rush to hear him. NEA: I was surprised to read somewhere that you felt that the recording Sonny meets Hawk wasn't quite what you hoped it might be. George Avakian: Well, it was very good but what I was disappointed in was that each of them deferred to the other to a degree. I guess I thought they would challenge each other and so forth. Instead, both of them were kind of laid back during the recordings and it worked out all right, but I was hoping for a little more fire but that wasn't the way they were thinking. And after all who am I to push them in a direction that they didn't want to go? So it turned out very, very well but it was not the image that I had in mind. I wish I'd followed up but at that point you have to realize that I was getting to be a tired guy. I had gone through building up the Columbia album catalog to a degree where it was the biggest income-producing unit in the industry worldwide. And then to help launch the Warner Brothers companies successfully was pretty tiring and then battling the conservatism at RCA was a little tiring also. So I took it easy and just freelanced from then on. But I look back on all of that and I realize that in some ways the most important single thing that I ever did in the record industry was to change the emphasis of the industry in the direction of quality albums that would endure rather thanhits that came and disappeared. It was a kind of a dream that I had as a kid because I came to think of the recordings as program material not just three minute solos. And as a result there is something on a long-playing popular record for anybody who walks into a store and wants to have a particular kind of music or entertainment, spoken word, and so forth. That was the goal that I set myself at Columbia and it became something that was universal.
