=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Forget 2020. Helmut Lang Was The First To Stream A Runway In 1998 - ICON]
Helmut Lang Fall/Winter 1998 / Credit: Pinterest Last month, it was announced that the forthcoming London Fashion Week would merge its menswear and womenswear shows for an online event. In terms of events, this is a first for the wider fashion industry while livestreams of individual shows have been occurring for the past several years. But for eponymous designer, Helmut Lang, it was nothing ...
URL: https://icon.ink/articles/helmut-lang-first-to-stream-runway-fall-winter-1998/

[When Fashion Met Technology: Our Ten Highlights | AnOther]
Apr 2, 2015 · Alexander McQueen, Plato’s Atlantis, S/S10 A pioneer of fashion innovation in every regard, Alexander McQueen was the first designer to live-stream a show online. For his Plato's Atlantis S/S10 collection, he collaborated with Nick Knight, SHOWstudio and production maestros Gainsbury & Whiting to open up what was once an industry-exclusive experience to the general public (until copious ...
URL: https://www.anothermag.com/fashion-beauty/7225/when-fashion-met-technology-our-ten-highlights

[Has Fashion Really Embraced Technology? We Chart the Ever ... - Vogue]
Feb 4, 2020 · Further disrupting the system, motion-controlled robots on tracks filmed both the models coming down the runway and the front row, offering a real 360-degree view of a fashion show.
URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/has-fashion-really-embraced-technology-a-timeline-of-tech-and-fashion

[Fashion History Lesson: The Evolution of Runway Shows]
Sep 19, 2016 · At the time, most fashion shows featured models being introduced by a number that correlated to the fashion design they wore, helping customers keep track of what to buy.
URL: https://fashionista.com/2016/09/fashion-week-history

[A short history of the fashion show - CNN]
In 1998, Yves Saint Laurent set a runway show in a sold-out stadium, one hour before the soccer World Cup final between France and Brazil. It involved 300 models, 900 backstage hands and 4,000 stadium staff, and was televised to about 1.7 billion ...
URL: https://www.cnn.com/style/article/fashion-show-origins


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Forget 2020. Helmut Lang Was The First To Stream A Runway In 1998 - ICON] ---
News Last month, it was announced that the forthcoming London Fashion Week would merge its menswear and womenswear shows for an online event. In terms of events, this is a first for the wider fashion industry while livestreams of individual shows have been occurring for the past several years. But for eponymous designer, Helmut Lang, it was nothing too new, in fact, the brand was the first to do any such advancement in 1998. Since 2005, the Austrian design left the industry and his namesake brand which has continued without his involvement for 15 years. But in a new interview with WWD, Lang returned to the fashion scene if only momentarily to look back at the moment he streamed his runway in the late ’90s. The designer was known for revolutionising menswear and womenswear silhouettes, infusing a sense of industrialism and unconventional materials into his designs. This is visible in his Fall/Winter collection of 81 looks where using old-school CD ROMS, he revealed the runway. “I only remember that it was very successful, and that everyone, including our customers, had a direct impact in terms of what they wanted to see in the stores as the online viewing allowed them to become immediately familiar with the runway looks that would show up in the stores a few months later. They were demanding to be able to purchase the showpieces instead of edited selections by buyers, as was the case prior. Also, at the time, there was not that overload of in-between and pre-collections. What customers saw in the stores actually maintained the core identity of the brand and brought the actual runway clothes to the streets, as it was important for me to always treat basics, prêt-à-porter, high-end and couture pieces in equal measure as a mix within the collections,” Lang told WWD. “I cannot remember how many CD-ROMs were distributed, and I don’t think we measured the traffic to the web site. CD-ROMs were only distributed to the fashion professionals we worked with on a continuous basis. At the time, it was more about introducing a medium without exploring or manipulating all its possibilities. People still very much liked going to stores and having that experience.” He also revealed why he decided to do it this way, saying it was not to be “first” but for other logistical means. “The intention was not to be the first. I decided at the time to cancel the announced runway show, which was the first women’s and men’s runway show to be held in New York after I moved my headquarters from Europe to New York. The much-appreciated hype, which became nearly overwhelming, was consequently threatening the “séance de travail” presentation format I introduced in Paris in 1988. So I thought about moving it to the Internet and open it up even more, which meant including the end consumer in a more direct manner.”


--- [When Fashion Met Technology: Our Ten Highlights | AnOther] ---
We examine the ten standout moments where fashion and tech collided The world of tech has undoubtedly and irrevocably changed the world of fashion. An industry that once depended on print features to share new collections now relies on social media and live-streamed shows to sustain consumer engagement. Some designers are delighted to embrace the phenomenon: Versace declared #GREEK the future of the brand and, for A/W15, Topshop's partnered with Twitter to enable consumers to shop trends as they appeared on the runway. Dior set their backstage up like a photoshoot, with optimum lighting for photographers. Some brands are showing a little resilience: Céline forbids even iPhone photography from their showroom and still doesn't retail online, with CEO Marco Gobbetti explaining to the Wall Street Journal, "I feel fashion has overcrowded and has made a lot of noise on the Internet, I think that being quiet gives more value to what we do." But whatever your opinion on the impact of it all: good, bad, exhausting or engaging, it's definitely happening. We take a look back over some of the moments that have got us here, from Plato's Atlantis to our very own Digital Limited Edition. Alexander McQueen, Plato’s Atlantis, S/S10 A pioneer of fashion innovation in every regard, Alexander McQueen was the first designer to live-stream a show online. For his Plato's Atlantis S/S10 collection, he collaborated with Nick Knight, SHOWstudio and production maestros Gainsbury & Whiting to open up what was once an industry-exclusive experience to the general public (until copious demand actually crashed the website). The whole spectacle was summed up by Suzy Menkes in the Internatonal Herald Tribune as "the most dramatic revolution in twenty-first-century fashion." Burberry's Regent Street Store, 2012 When Burberry opened their largest ever store on London's Regent Street in 2012, it was amidst a flurry of press provoked by its tech-heavy offerings. Apparently designed as a physical manifestation of their website, Christopher Bailey declared the space "future-proof" and installed 100 screens (including the largest ever inside a retail space) alongside 500 speakers to offer an immersive Burberry experience. In addition, RFID chips were woven into garments to trigger personalised multimedia content throughout the store when you picked up or tried on items of clothing. Cathy Horyn and Hedi Slimane's Twitter Feud, 2012 In 2012, Hedi Slimane snubbed Cathy Horyn by refusing to extend her an invite to the S/S13 Saint Laurent show, his debut as Creative Director for the brand. She reviewed the show anyway for the New York Times, explaining that "I was not invited. Despite positive reviews of his early YSL and Dior collections, as well as a profile, Mr. Slimane objected bitterly to a review I wrote in 2004." The next day, Slimane posted the above response on his (personal) Twitter account; it was fashion-meets-tech-meets-Jerry Springer. Brilliant. Iris van Herpen, S/S14 The first designer to show 3D-printed garments on the runway, in 2013 Iris van Herpen managed to engineer a fabric created by pulsed laser that was flexible, durable and (bizarrely) machine washable. Her regular collaborations with Belgian company Materialise NV and her dedication to technological innovation have marked her as one of the industry's most avant-garde creators, and her work with 3D printing has opened up new possibilities across the industry. Colette Launch of Apple Watch, 2014 When Apple's watch debuted at Colette in September 2014, it was to an audience of fashion's most legendary figures including Anna Wintour, Karl Lagerfeld and Suzy Menkes. Then, in Menkes' Vogue article on its arrival at one of the most fashionable stores in the world, Colette's founder Sarah Andelman announced that "Colette is about l'air du temps - what's in the air. This is going to be part of our fashion lives". Apple certainly know how to curate a guestlist, and the interest that the event generated outside of the tech industry was a serious achievement for a gadget. Céline and Joan Didion break the internet, Spring 2015 When Céline announced Joan Didion as their Spring campaign star, it was to rapturous re-gramming, tweeting and hashtagging. A woman whose history of elegance epitomises the brand's aesthetic, Céline managed to "go viral" while remaining thoroughly on-brand. As Anothermag.com editor Laura Bradley explained in her analysis of Céline-isms, one of the house's defining points is employing "the element of surprise" and, by appointing an octogenarian as the face of the brand, they surprised us all while challenging plenty of preconceptions about fashion. AnOther Magazine's Digital Limited Edition S/S15 For S/S15, we launched the very first high-definition, moving magazine cover: The Digital Limited Edition. Uniting the worlds of technology, fashion and music, you could listen to an exclusive soundtrack from John Gosling, watch Inez & Vinoodh's exclusive video of Rihanna and read the S/S15 issue, all in one super-chic publication. An immediate sell-out, it made headlines across the industries – from the Business of Fashion to the Financial Times. VFiles' User-Generated Fashion Shows VFiles is not just a retailer; it defines itself as "fashion online social networking – connecting, watching, and shopping." The brand is incredibly proud of championing internet-generation talents and pushing them forward in the industry – in fact, for their New York fashion shows, they exhibit designers who have been selected by the website's team and online community. Fashion democracy at its finest. The Instagram photo shoot #karllagerfeld @kevin @nicole #chanel A photo posted by michelgaubert™ (@michelgaubert) on Karl Lagerfeld meets Instagram's Kevin (by @MicheleGaubert), 2015 Instagram's impact on the fashion industry seems infinite; insta-friendly shows and campaigns are the norm, and there is now a solid industry etiquette that has formed around the @ symbol. Karl Lagerfeld meeting founder Kevin feels like a metaphor for the whole phenomenon – and, documented by Michele Gaubert (previously an industry insider DJ, now with 104k followers and counting), they felt like a tech triumvirate to be reckoned with. Loewe's Insta-Gang Jonathan Anderson, Jamie Hawkesworth, Laura Holmes, Benjamin Bruno... some of fashion's most intimidatingly cool people seem to have publicly formed a gang through @s and #s, and with it completely re-branded the historic house Loewe. Since being appointed Creative Director of the historic brand, Anderson brought plenty of his (very chic) friends on board and, through carefully curated feeds (leaking your own campaign images is a big hit for likes), they have established themselves as an online force to be reckoned with.


--- [Has Fashion Really Embraced Technology? We Chart the Ever ... - Vogue] ---
“Even if you don’t like the idea: Technology rules the world because it changed the world,” Karl Lagerfeld observed in 2016, the year he sent models in robot masks down the runway. The question that needs asking as we enter a new decade is: Does fashion actually like technology? Machines are used in all parts of the fashion process, from the farming of materials to inventory management to deliveries. E-commerce has completely transformed shopping; brick-and-mortar outlets have reacted by becoming destinations for experiences. Fashion designers, too, have been experimenting with new formats, including going straight to digital. The aim? The Instagram moment. Social media’s intersection with fashion, I would argue, is less about the clothing than the person documenting the moment. But be that as it may, fashion has undoubtedly embraced technology as a marketing tool. And a democratizing one at that, as it has the capability of offering all-access passes to whomever is connected to a screen, whether that’s through 360-degree camera, livestreaming, or virtual reality. The logical next step is adding a meaningful, perhaps, immersive shopping component. Our timeline of technology and fashion kicks off with Helmut Lang, who presented his fall 1998 collection via CD-ROM and the internet. “I sensed at the time that the internet would grow into something much bigger than imaginable, so I thought it was the right moment to challenge the norm and present the collection online,” Lang told me years after the fact. “It was a shock to the system, but a beginning of the new normal.” Part of the appeal of a digital format, he explained, was giving consumers access “to an unfiltered view of my work.” When Style.com launched in the summer of 2000, not all designers were so open to the idea. If I remember correctly, copying was a concern, but soon we were off and running, offering access and informed discourse about shows. The democratization of fashion (at least in terms of access to information—the market is still stratified and organized into categories like mass and luxury) continued in the late ’00s with the explosion of street-style photography and the emergence of a pack of bloggers who were filtering fashion through their personal lenses and recording it on laptops in the front row at Dolce & Gabbana, and through the internet and the industry’s favorite plaything, Instagram. Today, fashion adapts to Instagram rather than the other way around. I can’t help but note that many of these advances are happening around clothing, but not to garments themselves. Aesthetically, retro-futurism, often rendered in space-age silver and white, remains shorthand for modern or tech. Ironically, it’s often the items that don’t look like fashion that are the most advanced of all. (Think active sportswear that responds to temperature changes, etc.) There are very few designers, Hussein Chalayan being a notable exception, who have really thought about mechanizing garments and transforming them into machines for living and making them fashion. That integration of functionality and style is the new frontier, and the future. 1998 Helmut Lang sets the fashion machine in motion when he presents his fall 1998 collection via CD-ROM and the internet. (He’d do the same with his spring 2001 collection, following 9/11.) Alexander McQueen’s spring 1999 collection (number 13) concluded dramatically with Shalom Harlow standing on a rotating platform while industrial robots spray-painted her white “canvas” of a dress. 1999 Hussein Chalayan was one of the first designers to incorporate technology into his designs; it’s a quest he has not abandoned. One of the standouts of his spring 2000 show was the “airplane dress,” with flaps that were put into motion by remote control. For spring 2000 Donatella Versace showed the jungle-print dress that Jennifer Lopez wore to the 2000 Grammy Awards. The image of J.Lo in “that dress” was so searched for, it inspired the creation of Google Images. 2000 Style.com launches. 2006 Up until the finale of McQueen’s fall 2006 Widows of Culloden collection, it seemed to be a celebration of Victoriana and Charles Dickens via Miss Havisham. The unforgettable hologram of Kate Moss that closed the show was very of the moment. For spring 2007, Chalayan provided his audience with a survey of fashion history via a series of mechanically morphing dresses. Here was wearable tech hardwired with romance. 2009 McQueen partnered with Nick Knight’s ShowStudio to create history: Plato’s Atlantis, the designer’s spring 2010 outing, was the first to be livestreamed. Further disrupting the system, motion-controlled robots on tracks filmed both the models coming down the runway and the front row, offering a real 360-degree view of a fashion show. The front row of Dolce & Gabbana’s spring 2010 front row was filled with laptop-carrying online personalities (influencers in today’s parlance). It was a fashion moment, as was Tavi Gevinson’s appearance, in a giant bow-shaped hat at Christian Dior’s fall 2010 show, causing a journalist sitting behind her to complain about having to watch the show through said hat. The meeting of the old guard and new was not without its snags. 2012 In the lead-up to her spring 2013 show, in which models wore Google glasses, Diane von Furstenberg recorded her preparations using the ultimately ill-fated device. 2013 Dutch designer Iris van Herpen upended the idea of customization that is central to couture by making dresses to exact specifications using 3D printing. For her spring 2013 collection, she applied the technology to flexible materials for the first time; she also collaborated with artist Carlos Van Camp, who conducted electricity while wearing a specially designed Van Herpen suit. 2014 Fendi livestreams its fall 2014 collection using drones. Ralph Lauren’s Polo for Women line is presented in the form of a 4D holographic light show projected onto the spray of water spouting from the lake in Central Park. Marc Jacobs created an immersive sound experience at his spring 2015 show with a specially designed vocal narrative that guests listened to using the Beats by Dre headsets left on seats. “The idea was to put everybody in their own world,” Jacobs said. The ethereal finale to Richard Nicoll’s spring 2015 collection was a simple shift made of LED-operated fiber-optic fabric. 2015 Misha Nonoo trades in the traditional fashion show format in favor of an Insta-show. Instagram content At Dolce & Gabbana’s spring show, models take selfies of themselves while walking down the runway. These images are projected onto giant screens in the venue and posted on the brand’s social media platforms. Marc Jacobs Periscopes his resort 2016 collection. 2018 Users who downloaded the Runway by SAP app could watch, select, and rate their favorite looks from Badgley Mischka’s fall 2018 show. By spring 2020 the app had been further enhanced to allow for shopping, simultaneous photography, and more. Selfie-loving Olivier Rousteing’s launches a Balmain Snapchat beauty filter that promised insta-glam. It was a fitting accessory for his very kira-kira collection of fall 2018. 2019 Coperni designers Sébastien Meyer and Arnaud Vaillant go straight to Instagram with their fall 2019 collection, inviting users to interact with the lineup with a virtual experience via @copernize_your_life, modeled on the Choose Your Own Adventure books. Instagram content “Smash the control images. Smash the control machine. Proclaim a new era. Set up a new calendar, Nothing is true. Everything is permitted. I strive to live up to my words. Out of control.” Yang Li posted that message on his brand account in advance of his straight-to-Instagram fall 2019 collection and on those of the 27 women he asked to take selfies wearing the clothes he had sent. Instagram content Rihanna’s Savage x Fenty show, presented to a by-invitation audience who had to relinquish their cell phones at the door, is filmed to stream on Amazon Prime soon after. The TommyNow x Zendaya fall 2019 show was not only recorded using 360-degree cameras for that true-to-life feeling, but insider access was also offered through a web-based VR (shopping) experience through tommy.com. Rag & Bone’s Marcus Wainwright offers a multisensory experience for spring 2020 with modern dancers, musicians, the Brooklyn Youth Chorus, and a robot shooting video that played on LED screens during the show, which was also livestreamed on Instagram. Issey Miyake design director Satoshi Kondo put fashion in motion for spring 2020 via prancing models and skateboarders. Drones also dressed models in springy, colorful dresses. Wanting to capture the movement in clothes, An Vandevorst and Filip Arickx asked photographer Steven Sebring to capture their fall 2019 collection with his a 360-degree camera, which creates 3D holographic fashion images. This was their way of rethinking the fashion show. “With this way of filming,” Arickx said, “we could achieve that same experience, and it’s even easy to share with people all over the world.” Zac Posen, aiming for a balletic effect, worked with Sebring on his final collection, for spring 2020. 2020 In Copenhagen, the fall 2020 season opens with Carcel’s statement-making non-show. There were rows of chairs and a video, but no clothes and no models. We “asked everyone to step up to the runway to change the industry together, abandon broken systems, and create a new vision for fashion in society,” brand founder Veronica D’Souza announced on Instagram.


--- [Fashion History Lesson: The Evolution of Runway Shows] ---
Fashion History Lesson: The Evolution of Runway Shows Welcome to Fashion History Lesson, in which we dive deep into the origin and evolution of the fashion industry's most influential and omnipresent businesses, icons, trends and more. Once upon a time, in a world without iPhones or Kardashians, fashion shows were nothing more than small-scale marketing vehicles used to entice wealthy clients into buying a couturier’s latest designs. Today, the purpose of hosting high-budget fashion shows is a little bit less clear: Is it for profit? Is it for art? Is it for social media? Should the clothing shown be sold the moment it hits the runway, as Burberry's will on Monday, or six months later? But, one thing is for certain: fashion designers have always been keen on veiling the commercial intentions of fashion shows with dazzling theatrics and glamorous settings, which seem to get more extravagant (and Instagrammable) each season. In an attempt to better understand fashion’s longtime love affair with the runway, we’ve decided to take a quick look back at how catwalks evolved into the social media spectacles that we know them as today. In the late 1800s and early 1900s, business-savvy designers employed women to wear their designs around promenades surrounding racetracks, which allowed them to be noticed, emulated, photographed, and reported on by the media. Around the turn of the 20th century, many high-end fashion designers employed in-house models or "mannequins" to display their latest designs to their elite clientele. These private, informal shows typically included models casually walking around while small groups of customers sipped tea and nibbled on canapés. However, by 1908-1910, scheduled fashion shows or "fashion parades" became increasingly popular events. These first salon-hosted shows lasted as long as three hours, and were often repeated every day over the course of several weeks. [2] While there probably isn't one single designer who deserves credit for initiating the seasonal and media-driven fashion presentations that led to what we have today, couturiers Paul Poiret and Lucile (Lady Duff-Gordon) were both known for using a variety of clever tactics to attract a steady stream of fashion show attendees. By sending out invitations to her esteemed clientele, Lucile turned the business of buying clothing into a noteworthy social event. [2] At the time, most fashion shows featured models being introduced by a number that correlated to the fashion design they wore, helping customers keep track of what to buy. Lucile described her designs as “gowns of emotion,” introducing them with names like “Love in a Mist” in order to make her clothing seem less like merchandise and more like tangible fantasies. [3] Poiret is best known for conjuring more extreme ways to promote his latest collections. By hosting spectacular costume parties like his legendary “Thousand and Second Night” soirée, the designer transformed entire venues into interactive catwalks. [1] By 1918, due to an increasing amount of foreign buyers coming to Europe to view the latest styles, couture houses started to hold their fashion shows on fixed dates, two times a year, forming the basis of what we call "fashion week" today. [2] The first organized couture shows attempted to highly regulate guests for the purpose of maintaining an air of exclusivity for their clients, while also attempting to limit the unavoidable plague of design piracy by foreign dress manufacturers. Throughout the 1910s, it also became increasingly popular for American department stores to host their own fashion parades and charity fashion shows, which would become even more common once European couture salons were forced to temporarily shut their doors during WWII. By the time Christian Dior debuted his groundbreaking corolle collection (aka "The New Look") in 1947, fashion shows had become serious and publicized events hosted in either designers’ salons or small venues like hotels. Stone-faced models practicing signature struts replaced the informal model “walkabouts” of the past. Seated audiences were crammed into rooms with big-name journalists occupying the front rows and retail buyers and potential clients spread throughout. [2] Typically lasting over an hour, the ambiance of these lengthy shows tended to be quiet, except for the sound of fabric swooshing and ensemble numbers or names being read aloud. Some salons had permanent t-shaped or semicircular runways built to enhance their presentations, although models often had to make their way down staircases and through tightly-packed rooms, occasionally knocking down ashtrays and champagne glasses with their voluminous skirts. By the mid-1950s, many high-end department stores on both sides of the pond had adopted regular runway shows as a way to elevate their reputations. [2] The traditional fashion show format was completely revolutionized in the 1960s, coinciding with the rise of ready-to-wear and the gradual decline in couture clients. The discreet and relatively solemn couture showings were replaced by energetic presentations in unusual locations, with designers like Mary Quant and André Courrèges encouraging their models to abandon the traditional catwalk formation in order to embrace free-flowing movements. [4] Instead of catering to the press and buyers with an aura of luxury and exclusivity, designers were now using their fashion shows as a way to embrace youth culture and mass-consumerism. Of course, having models smile and dance seems extremely tame compared to the way designers continue to out-stunt each other on the runways today, but the 1960s and 1970s helped set the stage for modern presentations. They were also directly influenced by the savvy marketing techniques of early couturiers like Lucile, who often used dance and music as a way to display how her designs could be worn for real activities. [2] By the 1980s, fashion shows had become so hugely popular that Thierry Mugler was able to stage a colossal catwalk spectacular in 1984 at the Zénith stadium in Paris. Allowing half of the tickets to be sold to the open public, the show was presented to an audience of 6,000 people. [2] Other designers have taken their catwalk shows to similar extremes, including Yves Saint Laurent. In 1998, the French designer presented a retrospective couture collection after the World Cup Final in Paris in front of a packed stadium and an estimated 1 billion television spectators. Recommended Articles By the time Carrie Bradshaw got labeled "fashion roadkill" in 2001, the term “catwalk” had become widely used in America and synonymous with fashion and glamour, thanks in part to the organization of New York Fashion Week in Bryant Park in spring 1994 and the birth of runway’s biggest spectacle, the Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show, in August 1995. Of course, some of the biggest changes to catwalks over the past four decades have been caused by the models that walk them. The subdued "mannequins" employed by traditional couture salons appear antiquated in comparison to the charismatic runway models of the 1970s, like Jerry Hall and Pat Cleveland. Perhaps the biggest model runway moment came in March of 1991, when Gianni Versace sent Naomi Campbell, Christy Turlington, Linda Evangelista and Cindy Crawford down the runway together lip-synching George Michael’s “Freedom”. Few designers have excelled in catwalk theatrics like the late and great Alexander McQueen, known for turning his runways into human chessboards and high-powered wind tunnels. For his fall 1998 collection, McQueen concluded his show with a masked model in a blood red dress, surrounded by a ring of fire signifying Joan of Arc, whom the collection was named after. McQueen’s presentations straddled the line between fashion shows and performance pieces, sparking the age-old debate on whether theatrical runway shows should be considered art or commerce. There’s certainly no shortage of theatrical runway shows these days, with step team performances, immersive carnivals, and enough Kanye drama to take over an island. Although numerous designers have placed catwalks in exotic locations and radical settings, Karl Lagerfeld is the perhaps the designer who has continued to take his runway shows to levels that would have made Mademoiselle Chanel’s head spin. In the past three years alone, Lagerfeld has displayed his Chanel collections in grandiose sets designed to look like surreal brasseries, airport terminals and supermarkets, blurring the line between catwalk and everyday life. However, his true tour de force may have been the time that he turned the Great Wall of China into a runway for Fendi in 2007, flying in 500 VIP guests to witness the monumental (no pun intended) event. Although more and more fashion brands appear to be ditching the standard runway show formula in favor of informal presentations, it doesn’t seem like the mighty catwalk will disappear anytime soon. Even if these high-budget shows fail to sell actual clothing, they’re capable of raising enough brand awareness to stimulate sales in profitable merchandise, such as sunglasses, bags, and perfume. That being said, it’s hard to deny that catwalks still possess a magical power that transforms clothing into desirable fashion. No matter how outdated and unnecessary they may seem, the allure of runway shows simply can’t be replicated. Sources not linked: [1] Breward, Christopher. Oxford History of Art: Fashion. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2003. [2] Evans, Caroline. “The Enchanted Spectacle.” Fashion Theory, 5:3 (2001): 271-310. [3] Mendes, Valerie and Amy De La Haye. Fashion Since 1900. London: Thames & Hudson, 2010. [4] Steele, Valerie (ed.). Encyclopedia of Clothing and Fashion. New York: Charles Scribners & Sons, 2004. Want the latest fashion industry news first? Sign up for our daily newsletter. Homepage photo: Dior fall 2014. Dominique Charriau/WireImage Featured photo: Yves Saint Laurent fall 2001 haute couture. JEAN-PIERRE MULLER/AFP/Getty Images


--- [A short history of the fashion show - CNN] ---
Whether onstage or online, today’s fashion shows are bigger than ever – and broadcast to audiences of millions. But their roots are more humble and intimate than you might expect. The modern fashion show dates back to the 1860s, when pioneering English fashion designer Charles Frederick Worth used live models instead of mannequins to present his creations in Paris. By the turn of the century, events known as “fashion parades” had started to spread to London and New York. But those shows were small, mostly private events for buyers. Photography was often banned, for fear that the designs would be copied. That all changed after World War II, when fashion houses opened their doors to larger audiences and began to seek publicity. One of the icons of this new era was Christian Dior, whose first fashion show in Paris 1947 paraded billowing skirts flared out from tailored waists – an aesthetic so revolutionary that it was dubbed “The New Look.” Heralding in a new period of femininity and opulence, it was a stark departure from wartime austerity. By the 1960s, the serious, stony faces of models walking in rigid formation gave way to a lighter aesthetic, with models encouraged to show their personalities as music blared. And the more avant-garde fashion shows of today began life in the ’80s and ‘90s, when runways morphed into mini-productions, embellished with lighting, sound effects and elaborate staging. In 1998, Yves Saint Laurent set a runway show in a sold-out stadium, one hour before the soccer World Cup final between France and Brazil. It involved 300 models, 900 backstage hands and 4,000 stadium staff, and was televised to about 1.7 billion people. In recent years, fashion shows have evolved into ambitious theatrical presentations that blur the line between art and commerce. The late British designer Alexander McQueen put a runway in a wind tunnel, created a supermodel chess set and once ended a show with a masked Joan of Arc surrounded by blood and fire. And who better to exemplify how far fashion has come from the private salons of Paris than the late German designer Karl Lagerfeld, who staged shows in fictitious airport terminals and supermarkets, and even turned the Great Wall of China into a catwalk? Watch the animated video above to find out more about the history of the fashion show. Video credits. Art Direction: Ignacio Osorio; Design and Animation: Ana Perez Lopez, Alexander Sears, Ignacio Osorio; Written by: Jacopo Prisco; Sound Design: Carla Howe; Voice Over: Jackson Loo; Video Producer: Angelica Pursley
