=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sergio Fajardo - Wikipedia]
Sergio Fajardo Valderrama (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈseɾxjo faˈxaɾðo βaldeˈrama]; born 19 June 1956) is a Colombian politician and mathematician. He first entered politics in 2003 when he was elected Mayor of Medellín, the second largest city in Colombia and the capital of Antioquia. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sergio_Fajardo

[SERGIO FAJARDO - HiCue Speakers]
Highly respected as one of the great leaders in Colombia, Sergio Fajardo is recognized for his extraordinary charisma and his astounding levels of execution. He has been praised for his innovation skills, with high impact on social en political issues. Born in Medellin, Colombia, Fajardo is a mathematician of the University of the Andes, with a Master and PhD in mathematics from the University ...
URL: https://hicuespeakers.com/en/speakers/sergio-fajardo.html

[Sergio Fajardo Valderrama - Fundación Alejandro Ángel Escobar]
Matemático y Magíster de la Universidad de los Andes; Master of Science y Doctor en matemáticas con área menor en economía de la Universidad de Wisconsin, Estados. Ha sido Director del Centro de Ciencia y Tecnología de Antioquia, Subdirector de El Colombiano y columnista de los diarios ElMundo y El Espectador y de la Revista Dinero. Fue Alcalde de Medellín, Gobernador de Antioquia y ...
URL: https://www.faae.org.co/jurado/sergio-fajardo-valderrama/

[Sergio Fajardo Facts for Kids]
Nov 5, 2025 — Many people in Colombia see him as a centrist politician. This means he is not strongly tied to traditional political parties. Fajardo ran for ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Sergio_Fajardo

[Sergio Fajardo (born June 19, 1956), Colombian journalist ...]
Sergio Fajardo Valderrama, a mathematician from The University of the Andes turned politician, was the mayor of Medellín from 2003 to 2007 as an independent and is the current governor of Antioquia.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/sergio.fajardo/1882376


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sergio Fajardo - Wikipedia] ---
Sergio Fajardo Valderrama (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈseɾxjo faˈxaɾðo βaldeˈrama]; born 19 June 1956) is a Colombian politician and mathematician. He first entered politics in 2003 when he was elected Mayor of Medellín, the second largest city in Colombia and the capital of Antioquia. He was the mayor of Medellín from 2003 to 2007 and was recognized for transforming the city from a violent and impoverished place to a model of social and urban development. Fajardo was the vice presidential nominee of Antanas Mockus in 2010, finishing in second place after losing the runoff against Juan Manuel Santos and Angelino Garzon. Fajardo served as the governor of Antioquia from 2012 to 2016. Fajardo brands himself as a pragmatic politician with no particular ideology, with political analysts and media outlets in Colombia labelling him as a centrist politician not tied to the traditional parties in Colombia.
In July 2017, Fajardo announced his campaign to run for president in the upcoming elections in 2018. During the 2018 Colombian presidential election, Fajardo finished third in the first round. In March 2022, Fajardo announced that he would begin his presidential campaign for the 2022 Colombian presidential election. He finished fourth in the first round.


--- [SERGIO FAJARDO - HiCue Speakers] ---
Highly respected as one of the great leaders in Colombia, Sergio Fajardo is recognized for his extraordinary charisma and his astounding levels of execution. He has been praised for his innovation skills, with high impact on social en political issues. Born in Medellin, Colombia, Fajardo is a mathematician of the University of the Andes, with a Master and PhD in mathematics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, United States, and Doctor Honoris Causa of the International Menéndez Pelayo University and University of Cordoba, Argentina. He has held various positions in scientific institutions in Colombia, was a university professor and visiting professor in several prestigious universities around the world. Fajardo was also a recognized commentator for several leading media networks in Colombia. In 1999 he decided to enter politics leading the first independent civic-based movement to become mayor of Medellin (Colombia’s second largest city). In 2003, he was elected mayor with the highest vote in history. During his four-year tenure, he directed a great social transformation of Medellin, from a city immersed in violence to a center for aesthetic urban development projects that have won numerous awards and attention. He demonstrated that governance based on principles such as citizen participation and transparency in the use of public resources, and working outside traditional clientelism is possible in Colombia. In recognition to his work, he was named Best Mayor of Colombia in 2004-2007 and considered Latin America’s Most Relevant Person in 2007 by the Financial Times. In 2010 he was Vice-presidential candidate for the Green Movement. In 2012 Fajardo was elected Governor of Antioquia, with another historic vote. "Antioquia, the most Educated" was recognized as the best regional development plan and due to its successful implementation he was awarded Best Governor in Colombia. Fajardo´s policies reframed Medellin and Antioquia’s economic and social landscape through resolving three main problems: inequality, violence, and a culture of corruption. He is currently a visiting professor at the Monterrey Institute of Technology, a prestigious international speaker and political leader.


--- [Sergio Fajardo Valderrama - Fundación Alejandro Ángel Escobar] ---
Matemático y Magíster de la Universidad de los Andes; Master of Science y Doctor en matemáticas con área menor en economía de la Universidad de Wisconsin, Estados. Ha sido Director del Centro de Ciencia y Tecnología de Antioquia, Subdirector de El Colombiano y columnista de los diarios El Mundo y El Espectador y de la Revista Dinero. Fue Alcalde de Medellín, Gobernador de Antioquia y miembro fundador de la Comisión Facilitadora de Paz de Antioquia. Al enviar un mensaje a través de WhatsApp, acepta nuestra política de Tratamiento de datos personales Para información sobre la convocatoria de los Premios de Ciencias y Solidaridad consulte Reglamento, Bases y Requisitos en: Consultas adicionales las responderemos a partir del 9 de enero de 2025


--- [Sergio Fajardo Facts for Kids] ---
Sergio Fajardo facts for kids Quick facts for kids Sergio Fajardo | | |---|---| | Governor of Antioquia | | | In office 1 January 2012 – 1 January 2016 | | | Preceded by | Luis Alfredo Ramos | | Succeeded by | Luis Pérez Gutiérrez | | Mayor of Medellín | | | In office 1 January 2004 – 1 January 2008 | | | Preceded by | Luis Pérez Gutiérrez | | Succeeded by | Alonso Salazar Jaramillo | | Personal details | | | Born | Sergio Fajardo Valderrama 19 June 1956 Medellín, Colombia | | Political party | Dignity and Commitment | | Other political affiliations | Green Alliance (2010–2015) Hope Center Coalition | | Parent | | | Alma mater | University of the Andes University of Wisconsin, Madison | Sergio Fajardo Valderrama (Spanish pronunciation: [ˈseɾxjo faˈxaɾðo βaldeˈrama]; born 19 June 1956) is a Colombian politician and mathematician. He first became involved in politics in 2003. That year, he was elected Mayor of Medellín. Medellín is the second-largest city in Colombia. It is also the capital of Antioquia. Fajardo served as the mayor of Medellín from 2003 to 2007. He is known for helping to improve the city. Medellín became a model for social and urban development during his time as mayor. In 2010, Fajardo was the vice presidential candidate with Antanas Mockus. They finished in second place. Fajardo then served as the governor of Antioquia from 2012 to 2016. He describes himself as a practical politician. He does not follow one specific political idea. Many people in Colombia see him as a centrist politician. This means he is not strongly tied to traditional political parties. Fajardo ran for president in 2018. He finished third in the first round of elections. In March 2022, he ran for president again in the 2022 Colombian presidential election. He finished fourth in the first round. Contents Early Life and Education Sergio Fajardo was born and grew up in Medellín, Colombia. His birthday is June 19, 1956. His father, Raúl Fajardo Moreno, was an architect. He designed the famous Coltejer Building. Fajardo finished high school at Colegio Benedictino. Then, he moved to Bogotá. He studied mathematics at the Universidad de los Andes. He earned both his first degree and a master's degree there. Later, Fajardo went to the United States. He earned a Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Political Career Before entering politics, Sergio Fajardo was a teacher. He taught mathematical logic at the University of the Andes. He was 40 years old when he started his political journey. Mayor of Medellín (2003–2007) In 2003, Fajardo became the first independent mayor of Medellín. This means he did not belong to a major political party. During his four years as mayor, he led big changes in the city. Medellín became a place of great urban development. For his work, he was named the Best Mayor of Colombia in 2007. He also received other awards from Colombia and other countries. Governor of Antioquia (2012–2015) In 2010, Fajardo was a candidate for vice president. He ran with another independent politician and mathematician, Antanas Mockus. From 2012 to 2015, he was elected governor of the state of Antioquia. During his time as governor, Antioquia performed very well. It was a leader in open government and transparency. This means the government was clear about its actions. It also managed money from oil very well. An organization called Colombia Líder named him the best governor in the country in 2015. Presidential Campaigns Fajardo ran for president as an independent candidate in 2018. His campaign was supported by a group called Coalición Colombia. This group included the Green Party and other movements. In the first round of elections, Fajardo received more than 4.6 million votes. He was very close to moving on to the second round. In 2022, Fajardo ran for president again. He finished fourth in the first round of the election. Current Work Currently, Sergio Fajardo is a professor. He teaches at the School of Government and Public Transformation. This school is part of the Instituto Tecnológico of Monterrey in Mexico. He is also a member of the Inter-American Dialogue. This group works to improve relations in the Americas. Fajardo wants to find a "Third Way" in politics. This idea was inspired by former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. It aims to go beyond the usual left–right political spectrum. He wants to find new solutions for Colombia. Personal Life Sergio Fajardo is married. He has two children. See also In Spanish: Sergio Fajardo para niños


--- [Sergio Fajardo (born June 19, 1956), Colombian journalist ...] ---
Sergio Fajardo Valderrama, a mathematician from The University of the Andes turned politician, was the mayor of Medellín from 2003 to 2007 as an independent and is the current governor of Antioquia. Education Fajardo was granted a Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Fajardo graduated (high school) from the Colegio Benedictino, and has an undergraduate and a graduate degree (Master of Science ) in mathematics from the Universidad de los Andes - Bogotá. Career After he left the mayoralty, he briefly joined a national radio station as a commentator, which raised his profile. Fajardo ran for vice president in the 2010 election, together with the presidential candidate Antanas Mockus. Later he went to the United States and got a Doctor of Philosophy in mathematics with a minor in economics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. As a journalist he was subdirector of El Colombiano and wrote a regular column for El Mundo, El Espectador and Dinero. He had roles in the television programs Operación Ciudad in Telemedellín and Zanahoria in Teleantioquia and also formed part of the Viva FM Caracol Radio team Membership He has been involved in peace processes as founding member of the Comisión Facilitadora de Paz de Antioquia while Álvaro Uribe was the governor of Antioquia and has given conferences on Colombia"s armed conflict.
