=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Faraday Lectureship Prize - Wikipedia]
Michael Faraday (1791-1867), after whom the lectureship is named. The Faraday Lectureship Prize, previously known simply as the Faraday Lectureship, is awarded once every two years (approximately) by the Royal Society of Chemistry for "exceptional contributions to physical or theoretical chemistry". [1] Named after Michael Faraday, the first Faraday Lecture was given in 1869, two years after ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faraday_Lectureship_Prize

[Professor Michel Che winner of the RSC 2014 Faraday Lectureship Prize ...]
On Monday 26th January Professor Michel Che of the Universite Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6 & Institut Universitaire de France gave his 2014 Faraday Lecture at the School of Chemistry. Michel is a world-renowned scientist and the winner of the Royal Society of Chemistry 2014 Faraday Lectureship Prize.
URL: https://www.cardiff.ac.uk/news/view/73976-professor-michel-che

[1914 Faraday Lectureship Prize Winner | PDF | Physics ...]
The document discusses the Institute of Physics Michael Faraday Medal and Prize, which is awarded annually for outstanding contributions to experimental physics. It provides details on the history and development of the award, lists recent recipients, and includes short biographies of notable physicists who have received the medal.
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/728935368/Institute-of-Physics-Michael-Faraday-Medal-and-Prize-Wikipedia

[Svante Arrhenius]
Svante August Arrhenius was a Swedish scientist. Originally a physicist, but often referred to as a chemist, Arrhenius was one of the founders of the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svante_Arrhenius

[Human Accomplishment: Svante Arrhenius]
Fields Physics Chemistry Alma mater Uppsala University Stockholm University Awards Davy Medal (1902) Nobel Prize for Chemistry (1903) ForMemRS (1910) Willard Gibbs Award (1911) Faraday Lectureship Prize (1914) Franklin Medal (1920) OSF adultbasic Sweden Doctoral advisor Per Teodor Cleve Erik Edlund Doctoral students Oskar Benjamin Klein OSF era ...
URL: https://www.humanaccomplishment.com/human/313


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Faraday Lectureship Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The Faraday Lectureship Prize, previously known simply as the Faraday Lectureship, is awarded once every two years (approximately) by the Royal Society of Chemistry for "exceptional contributions to physical or theoretical chemistry". Named after Michael Faraday, the first Faraday Lecture was given in 1869, two years after Faraday's death, by Jean-Baptiste Dumas. As of 2009, the prize was worth £5000, with the recipient also receiving a medal and a certificate. As the name suggests, the recipient also gives a public lecture describing their work.


--- [Professor Michel Che winner of the RSC 2014 Faraday Lectureship Prize ...] ---
Professor Michel Che winner of the RSC 2014 Faraday Lectureship Prize lectures in the School 27 January 2015 On Monday 26th January Professor Michel Che of the Universite Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6 & Institut Universitaire de France gave his 2014 Faraday Lecture at the School of Chemistry. Michel is a world-renowned scientist and the winner of the Royal Society of Chemistry 2014 Faraday Lectureship Prize. The title of his lecture was; Relevance of Geochemistry to the Life of a Catalyst: When Fire Meets Water. His lecture drew parallels between advanced catalyst synthesis and the geochemical processes that lead to mineral formation. The fire and water of volcanic action and aqueous mineral chemistry can help inform our approaches to man-made materials of technological significance. The talk was interspersed with reference to historical figures in chemistry, their private lives and their roles in the political development of Europe. This was used to demonstrate that much of the technology that the chemical industry relies on has its roots in the very early days of chemical research. After the lecture Professor Che was presented with his Faraday Medal by Professor Graham Hutchings, who is the current head of the Faraday Division of the Royal Society of Chemistry.


--- [1914 Faraday Lectureship Prize Winner | PDF | Physics ...] ---
Michael Faraday Medal and Prize Overview The document discusses the Institute of Physics Michael Faraday Medal and Prize, which is awarded annually for outstanding contributions to experimental physics. It provides details on the history and development of the award, lists recent recipients, and includes short biographies of notable physicists who have received the medal. Michael Faraday Medal and Prize Overview


--- [Svante Arrhenius] ---
Svante August Arrhenius ( ə-REE-nee-əs, -⁠RAY-, Swedish: [ˈsvânːtɛ aˈrěːnɪɵs]; 19 February 1859 – 2 October 1927) was a Swedish scientist. Originally a physicist, but often referred to as a chemist, Arrhenius was one of the founders of the science of physical chemistry. In 1903, he received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, becoming the first Swedish Nobel laureate. In 1905, he became the director of the Nobel Institute, where he remained until his death.
Arrhenius was the first to use the principles of physical chemistry to estimate the extent to which increases in the atmospheric carbon dioxide are responsible for the Earth's increasing surface temperature. His work played an important role in the emergence of modern climate science. In the 1960s, Charles David Keeling reliably measured the level of carbon dioxide present in the air showing it was increasing and that, according to the greenhouse hypothesis, it was sufficient to cause significant global warming.
The Arrhenius equation, Arrhenius acid, Arrhenius base, lunar crater Arrhenius, Martian crater Arrhenius, the mountain of Arrheniusfjellet, and the Arrhenius Labs at Stockholm University were so named to commemorate his contributions to science.


--- [Human Accomplishment: Svante Arrhenius] ---
a Swedish scientist. Originally a physicist, but often referred to as a chemist, Arrhenius was one of the founders of the science of physical chemistry. For much more information, also see Born Svante August Arrhenius 19 February 1859 Wik Castle, Sweden, Sweden-Norway Died 2 October 1927 (aged 68) Stockholm, Sweden Nationality Swedish Known for Arrhenius equation Theory of ionic dissociation Acid-base theory Calculation of warming for double carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Fields Physics Chemistry Alma mater Uppsala University Stockholm University Awards Davy Medal (1902) Nobel Prize for Chemistry (1903) ForMemRS (1910) Willard Gibbs Award (1911) Faraday Lectureship Prize (1914) Franklin Medal (1920) adultbasic Sweden Doctoral advisor Per Teodor Cleve Erik Edlund Doctoral students Oskar Benjamin Klein era 1800+
