=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[10th Shorty Awards - Wikipedia]
The 10th Annual Shorty Awards powered by DirecTV Now, honoring the best in social media, took place on April 15, 2018, at the PlayStation Theater, New York City. The ceremony was hosted by actress, singer, songwriter, Keke Palmer. Nominations were announced on January 16, 2018, with public ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/10th_Shorty_Awards

[Marques Brownlee - Wikipedia]
In April 2018, Brownlee won Shorty Awards Creator of the Decade. [27] In August 2019, Brownlee began co-hosting a technology podcast, Waveform: The MKBHD Podcast.[28] that is commonly referred to as Waveform or WVFRM.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marques_Brownlee

[2018 Shorty Awards - Winners, Ages, Trivia | Famous Birthdays]
2018 Shorty Awards About Celebratory ceremony of the best in social media in addition to categories such as Best TV Show and Best Celebrity. The winners are chosen by the public.
URL: https://www.famousbirthdays.com/awards/2018-shortys.html

[Wil Dasovich, Nyma Tang, Miles McKenna Named Winners At 10th Annual Shorty Awards - Tubefilter]
Apr 16, 2018 · The Shorty Awards also recognized creators on a whole host of other platforms. HQ Trivia host Scott Rogowsky, for instance, was named top Live Streamer, Annie LeBlanc won in the Muser (or Musical.ly creator) category; Topher Brophy won top Instagrammer of the year; League Of Legends player Pokimane was named best Twitch Streamer; and in the Podcast category, vloggers David Dobrik and Jason ...
URL: https://www.tubefilter.com/2018/04/16/wil-dasovich-nyma-tang-miles-mckenna-shorty-awards/

[Shorty Awards - Wikipedia]
They were hosted by YouTuber, Writer and Comedian Mamrie Hart with musical performances from Nico & Vinz. Winners of the night included Bill Wurtz, DJ Khaled, Misty Copeland, Casey Neistat, Dwayne Johnson, Hannah Hart, Troye Sivan, Baddie Winkle, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shorty_Awards


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [10th Shorty Awards - Wikipedia] ---
The 10th Annual Shorty Awards powered by DirecTV Now, honoring the best in social media, took place on April 15, 2018, at the PlayStation Theater, New York City. The ceremony was hosted by actress, singer, songwriter, Keke Palmer.


--- [Marques Brownlee - Wikipedia] ---
Marques Keith Brownlee ( mar-KEZ BROWN-lee; born December 3, 1993), known professionally as MKBHD, is an American influencer and professional ultimate frisbee player, best known for his YouTube videos reviewing technology devices. In 2013, Vic Gundotra, a former senior vice president of Google, called Brownlee "the best technology reviewer on the planet right now". At the 10th Shorty Awards in 2018, he was named "Creator of the Decade". The username of his YouTube channel is a concatenation of MKB (Brownlee's initials) and HD (for high definition). As of 2025, he has more than 20 million subscribers across all channels and billions of total video views.
With New York PoNY, Brownlee is the 2022 WFDF World Champion in the Open Category for ultimate Frisbee. In 2024, Time magazine named him to its "TIME100 Most Influential People in AI" list.


--- [2018 Shorty Awards - Winners, Ages, Trivia | Famous Birthdays] ---
Aired Apr 15, 2018 Celebratory ceremony of the best in social media in addition to categories such as Best TV Show and Best Celebrity. The winners are chosen by the public. The 10th annual celebration marked the first time that the acting award would be gender-neutral. #41 award show


--- [Wil Dasovich, Nyma Tang, Miles McKenna Named Winners At 10th Annual Shorty Awards - Tubefilter] ---
The ten-year-old Shorty Awards recognized the accomplishments of a vast and varied set of digital creators yesterday evening, when the fan-voted honors — which celebrate accolades across the social media sphere — were distributed during a ceremony in New York City. Tech reviewer Marques Brownlee took home the Creator Of The Decade award, whereas, on the more nascent end of the YouTube spectrum, vlogger Elle Mills was named Breakout Creator. Wil Dasovich, who is currently chronicling his battle against colon cancer, was named Vlogger Of The Year, while YouTube veteran Jack Douglass took home the YouTuber Of The Year honors. Other creators in distinct verticals took home the following Short Awards: DangMattSmith (Comedy), Kurt Hugo Schneider (Music), Nyma Tang (Beauty), Rosanna Pansino (Food), LaurDIY and The Sorry Girls (House & Home), Miles McKenna (LGBTQ+), John and Hank Green’s CrashCourse (Education), DashieGames (gaming), Sophia Gall (Health & Wellness), Poppy (Weird), Fathering Autism (Parenting/Family), and Kara And Nate (Travel). Subscribe to get the latest creator news The Shorty Awards also recognized creators on a whole host of other platforms. HQ Trivia host Scott Rogowsky, for instance, was named top Live Streamer, Annie LeBlanc won in the Muser (or Musical.ly creator) category; Topher Brophy won top Instagrammer of the year; League Of Legends player Pokimane was named best Twitch Streamer; and in the Podcast category, vloggers David Dobrik and Jason Nash won for their talk show, Views. (Dobrik’s Vlog Squad collective also won in the YouTube Ensemble category). You can check out the full list of winners right here, or re-watch the Shorty’s broadcast in its entirety on Twitter.


--- [Shorty Awards - Wikipedia] ---
The Shorty Awards (also known as "The Shortys") are awards for outstanding and innovative work in digital and social media content by brands, advertising agencies, and creators. The awards, which generally focus on short-term content, honor achievements in content creation on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, Twitch, and other social networking sites. The Shorty Awards began in 2008 and initially recognized achievements by independent creators on Twitter, with the first formal awards ceremony occurring in February 2009. Since then, the awards, which are now awarded each spring, have shifted their focus to recognize content across numerous platforms.
Entrant work is judged on the merits of excellence in creativity, strategy, and engagement by the Real Time Academy, a group of industry professionals selected by the Shorty Awards on the basis of their professional reputations, industry knowledge, and personal achievements (which may include previous Shorty wins). An additional public voting component, known as Audience Honor Voting, is also used to select Shorty Awards contenders. 
Notable Shorty Award winners include Malala Yousafzai, Trevor Noah, Michelle Obama, Conan O’Brien, Lady Gaga, Bill Nye, Jacob Reed, and Lizzo. Brands and organizations such as Chipotle, Duolingo, Marvel Studios, HBO, Red Bull, Airbnb, Nestle, BMW, UNICEF and the Human Rights Campaign have also been awarded.
The Shorty Awards also produces an annual award program called The Shorty Impact Awards, a competition dedicated to showcasing digital and social media-based projects by brands, agencies, and organizations that seek to make the world a better place.
