=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Rugged Lark - Wikipedia]
Rugged Lark (May 1, 1981 - October 26, 2004) was Quarter Horse stallion who was a two-time American Quarter Horse Association (or AQHA) World Show Superhorse as well as being a three-time AQHA World Champion.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rugged_Lark

[Rugged Lark - AQHA]
During his show career, "Lark" won the 3-year-old hunter under saddle at the 1984 All American Quarter Horse Congress; two Sooner trailer Superhorse titles at the AQHA World Championship Show, one in 1985 and the second in 1987; world championships in pleasure driving and senior hunter under saddle; and reserve world championships in ...
URL: https://www.aqha.com/-/rugged-la-1

[Rugged Lark - Wikiwand]
Rugged Lark won the AQHA World Show Superhorse title in 1985 and in 1987. He also was an AQHA Superior Western Pleasure Horse, Superior Hunter Under Saddle Horse, and Superior Trail Horse.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Rugged_Lark

[TWO Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of TWO is being one more than one in number. How to use two in a sentence.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/two

[Pedigree — Larks Home Run]
Rugged Lark won the AQHA World Show Superhorse title in 1985 and in 1987. He also was an AQHA Superior Western Pleasure Horse, Superior Hunter Under Saddle Horse, and Superior Trail Horse.
URL: https://larkshomerun.com/pedigree


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Rugged Lark - Wikipedia] ---
Rugged Lark (May 1, 1981 – October 26, 2004) was Quarter Horse stallion who was a two-time American Quarter Horse Association (or AQHA) World Show Superhorse as well as being a three-time AQHA World Champion. He is also the winner of the Silver Spur Award


--- [Rugged Lark - AQHA] ---
Reining, dressage, driving, hunter, pleasure horse, Breyer model, sire, bronze statue, Silver Spur winner, AQHA Superhorse, philanthropist. That was Rugged Lark. The 1981 bay stallion died in 2004, leaving a legacy of goodwill and a string of accomplishments that would make any professional athlete blush. The bay stallion was sired by Really Rugged (TB) and was out of Alisa Lark. Carol Harris of Bo-Bett Farms in Ocala, Florida, bought Rugged Lark as a yearling. During his show career, “Lark” won the 3-year-old hunter under saddle at the 1984 All American Quarter Horse Congress; two Sooner trailer Superhorse titles at the AQHA World Championship Show, one in 1985 and the second in 1987; world championships in pleasure driving and senior hunter under saddle; and reserve world championships in pleasure driving and senior western riding. Rugged Lark also sired two Superhorses, The Lark Ascending in 1991, and Look Whos Larkin in 1999. Regal Lark was reserve Superhorse in 1993. It was after Lark’s retirement at age 6 that he also became a superstar. Trainer Lynn Palm rode Lark bridleless in 1987, during the Superhorse awards ceremony. The duo received a standing ovation. In 1989, the bay stallion became a model for an extremely popular Breyer collectible horse. Lark was asked to perform at the Volvo World Cup Competition in Tampa, Florida, and at the 1989 Festival of Champions for the United States Equestrian Team. In 1995, Lark performed at the Festival of Champions again and was AQHA’s ambassador to the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. The stallion received AQHA’s Silver Spur award in recognition of his efforts as an ambassador and entertainer. The stallion’s last performance was in 1997 at the Florida Reining Horse Classic. Rugged Lark died in 2004, and was inducted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2006. Biography updated as of March 2006.


--- [Rugged Lark - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [TWO Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 : being one more than one in number 2 : being the second —used postpositively section two of the instructions plural in construction 1 : two countable individuals not specified only two were found 2 : a small approximate number of indicated things only a shot or two were fired plural twos 1 : a number that is one more than one see Table of Numbers 2 : the second in a set or series the two of spades 3 : a 2-dollar bill 4 : something having two units or members Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Pedigree — Larks Home Run] ---
Larks Home Run Lineage Homer is a 2005 son of the legendary AQHA stallion, Rugged Lark, out of Sail Home Again Click to Expand Homer’s Pedigree Chart Unforgettable Rugged Lark Rugged Lark was a 1981 bay stallion sired by Really Rugged (TB), out of Alisa Lark (QH). Rugged Lark won the AQHA World Show Superhorse title in 1985 and in 1987. He also was an AQHA Superior Western Pleasure Horse, Superior Hunter Under Saddle Horse, and Superior Trail Horse. In 1987 he was the World Champion Senior Hunter Under Saddle Horse. In 1985 he was the World Champion Pleasure Driving Horse. He earned AQHA points in Hunter Under Saddle, Western Pleasure, Trail, Hunter Hack, Reining, Working Hunter, Western Riding, Pleasure Driving, and Barrel Racing. (source) After his retirement in 1987, Lark became a breed ambassador and was asked to perform at the Volvo World Cup Competition in Tampa, Florida, the 1989 and 1995 Festival of Champions for the United States Equestrian Team, and was AQHA’s ambassador to the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. Rugged Lark received AQHA’s Silver Spur award in recognition of his efforts as an ambassador and entertainer and in 1989 was immortalized as a Breyer horse. After his death in 2004, his owner, Hall of Fame horsewoman Carol Harris donated all of his memorabilia, trophies, and larger-than-life bronze statue to the Florida Agriculture Center and Horse Park in Ocala, Florida, saying that the horse’s legacy should be in public hands. “I don’t think there is another horse in the country that was as loved. We offered him to everyone. We let everybody touch him. We let kids sit on him. He would stand there for three, four hours at a time. Never once did he not offer to let anyone love on him.” — Carol Harris, Owner and Hall of Fame Horsewoman (source)
