=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hollywood Dun It - AQHA]
Dun It eventually became NRHA's first $4 million sire, and he reached the $5 and $6 million marks after his death. Through 2011, Hollywood Dun It had sired 1,209 American Quarter Horses. Hollywood Dun It's legacy continues through his talented offspring, with their distinct "Dun It" demeanor and astounding athletic ability.
URL: https://www.aqha.com/-/hollywood-dun-it

[Foothills Ranch - Hollywood Dun It]
Hollywood Dun It get - known for their attractive looks and extreme trainability - have won such prestigious reining events as the NRHA Futurity, Derby, and Superstakes, National Reining Breeders Classic, All American Quarter Horse Congress Futurity, Southwest Reining Horse Association Futurity, Tradition Futurity, and numerous others.
URL: https://www.foothillsranch.com/hollywood-dun-it.htm

[Hollywood Dun It - Wikipedia]
Hollywood Dun It Hollywood Dun It, (1983 - 2005) was an American Quarter Horse who excelled in reining and was a record-setting stallion. He was known for his charismatic demeanor and passing on his trait of a big stop and athletic turning style, both desirable characteristics of reining horses.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hollywood_Dun_It

[HOLLYWOOD DUN IT - By QStallions - Updated Weekly]
Standing at: McQuay Stables, Inc. 11041 Friendship Rd Pilot Point, TX 76258 (View on map) · Click to View the Breeding Farm Site
URL: https://www.qstallions.com/StallionDetMobileMenu?id=532

[From The Archives: Hollywood Dun It]
Apr 28, 2021 — Bred by Gwen Steif of Kildeer, Illinois, Hollywood Dun It was born in 1983. He was out of a Blossom Berry mare named Dun Berry, and his sire ...
URL: https://www.quarterhorsenews.com/2021/04/from-the-archives-hollywood-dun-it/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hollywood Dun It - AQHA] ---
Hollywood Dun It – popularly known as “Dun It” – was a stallion who became a reining icon and a sire of champions. Bred by Gwen L. Steif of Kildeer, Illinois, the dun son of Hollywood Jac 86 was foaled in 1983 out of the Dun Berry reining mare Blossom Berry. Hollywood Dun It first attracted widespread notice at the 1986 National Reining Horse Association Futurity, when trainer and future owner Tim McQuay rode the 3-year-old colt to a reserve championship. In his career, Hollywood Dun It earned $65,808 in NRHA competition and in 2000 was inducted into the NRHA Hall of Fame. Hollywood Dun It retired to the breeding barn in 1988. His first two foal crops earned more than $350,000, and future crops helped him reach the NRHA $1 million mark at age 16. Dun It eventually became NRHA’s first $4 million sire, and he reached the $5 and $6 million marks after his death. Through 2011, Hollywood Dun It had sired 1,209 American Quarter Horses. Hollywood Dun It’s legacy continues through his talented offspring, with their distinct “Dun It” demeanor and astounding athletic ability. Hollywood Dun It was euthanized in March of 2005, and inducted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2012. Biography updated as of March 2012.


--- [Foothills Ranch - Hollywood Dun It] ---
| | Hollywood Dun It was by the great Hollywood Jac 86 and out of Blossom Berry, an own daughter of Dun Berry. During his show career, Hollywood Dun It was the National Reining Horse Association Futurity Reserve Champion, the NRHA Derby Champion and the Superstakes Champion. A 2000 NRHA Hall of Fame inductee, the beautiful dun stallion is the NRHA's Leading All-Time Sire of Reining Horses, with sons and daughters whose earnings have now surpassed the $5 Million mark! Hollywood Dun It get - known for their attractive looks and extreme trainability - have won such prestigious reining events as the NRHA Futurity, Derby, and Superstakes, National Reining Breeders Classic, All American Quarter Horse Congress Futurity, Southwest Reining Horse Association Futurity, Tradition Futurity, and numerous others. Dun It produced AQHA World Champions and multiple NRHA World and Reserve World Champions and was selected as the first Breyer Animal Creations reining horse in 1998. He has earned over $100,000 in performance and sire awards. His offspring are big stoppers, deadly leaded, and nimble turners. Much of the appeal of Hollywood Dun It and his offspring is that they are affectionate, intelligent and beautifully talented - it's a great combination. Hollywood Dun It touched people. Daily, they would come to Tioga, Texas from all over the world to visit. Part of his appeal was that he won and placed at the most prestigious reining competitions in the world. Part of it was his genetic prominence. In 2003, he became the only horse with offspring earnings surpassing the $3 million mark. Then in 2004, he again made history when his offspring earned in excess of $4 million. He's the leading All-Time sire of reining performers - siring both AQHA and NRHA world champions. Part of it is that unforgettable face - the kind eye and sculpted head that he carbon-copies on to his get. Part of it is his personality. He was a "people" horse that loved to play to a crowd. Years ago, his charisma resulted in winning performances. Later on, a bow for a carrot still captured hearts. But to fully understand why so many people loved him, you have to know that he is a horse that made them believe! His magic has made careers and fortunes. When he was inducted into the NRHA Hall of Fame, association President Frank Costantini asked the audience, "Is there anyone here who hasn't won with a Hollywood Dun It?" Folks in the industry know that you can bet the farm on this horse. And when you believe in Hollywood Dun It, dreams come true. |


--- [Hollywood Dun It - Wikipedia] ---
Hollywood Dun It, (1983 – 2005) was an American Quarter Horse who excelled in reining and was a record-setting stallion.  He was known for his charismatic demeanor and passing on his trait of a big stop and athletic turning style, both desirable characteristics of reining horses.


--- [HOLLYWOOD DUN IT - By QStallions - Updated Weekly] ---
Sire SummaryTotal AQHA Foals: 1,386 Total Earnings: $7,887,696 (Earnings include NCHA weekend money) Number of Money-Earners: 809 Average Earnings Per Money-Earner: $9,750 Total AQHA Points Earned: 15,392 Number of AQHA Point-Earners: 582 Average AQHA Points Earned per Point-Earner: 26 Total AQHA Superior Awards Earned: 58 Total AQHA ROM Awards Earned: 349 AQHA Champion Awards Earned: 0 AQHA World Champions: 10 AQHA Reserve World Champions: 8 AQHA World Championships: 12 AQHA Reserve World Championships: 12 Total NCHA Earnings: $ 595 Total NRHA Earnings: $ 6,773,012 Total NRCHA Earnings: $ 189,727 Total NSBA Earnings: $ 18,105 Total BFA Earnings: $ 0 Total RHAA Earnings: $ 781 Total SHOT Earnings: $ 0


--- [From The Archives: Hollywood Dun It] ---
Hollywood Dun It was a wave-maker in the reining industry. The shapely buckskin stallion found success in competition before leaving his mark as a sire. Bred by Gwen Steif of Kildeer, Illinois, Hollywood Dun It was born in 1983. He was out of a Blossom Berry mare named Dun Berry, and his sire was reining revolutionary Hollywood Jac 86, who was the first stallion to produce $1 million in reining progeny. Trained by Equi-Stat Elite $3 Million Rider Tim McQuay, “Dun It” proved a capable competitor. In his futurity year, Dun It was the Open Reserve Champion at the 1986 National Reining Horse Association (NRHA) Futurity, and later was the Open Champion in the NRHA Derby. Fatherly Duties Entering the breeding barn at 5 years old, Dun It began siring carbon copies. He stamped his progeny with color and multitudes of mane and tail. The trainability he passed onto his foals meant that both non-pros and open rider alike could ride them and win. According to Equi-Stat, Dun It has 741 money-earning progeny who cumulatively broke earnings records in the NRHA. According to the NRHA, Dun It was the first horse to become an NRHA Two Million Sire, and he continued that pattern until he reached $6 million in NRHA progeny earnings. In Equi-Stat, Dun It is an Equi-Stat Elite $7 Million Sire. Leading progeny for Dun It include: - NRHA Derby Level 4 Open Reserve Champion and Equi-Stat Elite $3 Million Sire Hollywoodtinseltown ($178,156, out of Miss Tinseltown x Great Red Pine) - National Reining Breeders Classic Open Champion Reminic N Dunit ($169,663, out of Reminic Chex Bar x Reminic) - American Quarter Horse Association (AQHA) Senior Working Cow Horse World Champion Matt Dillon Dun It ($169,216, out of Rosalie Dillon x Kemas Bar Chex) - NRHA Futurity Open Champion Hollywood Vintage ($155,842, out of Taris Little Vintage x Peppy San Badger) Even though Dun It sired some outstanding sons, over the years it seems his daughters of Dun It have contributed even more to the performance horse industry. So far, daughters of the great stallion have foaled 1,586 money-earning performers who have banked more than $18 million. The richest reiner who lists Hollywood Dun It as his maternal grandsire is Custom Made Gun, a son of Colonels Smoking Gun [Gunner] who earned $419,985 and was a co-champion in the Million Dollar Invitational at The Run For A Million. Next is another offspring of Gunner, NRHA Futurity Level 4 Open Champion and now successful broodmare Americasnextgunmodel ($305,779). In 2019, daughter Dun It For Chex became a one of the first mares to earn the distinction of being an NRHA One Million Dollar Dam. She did it with such top-tier competitors such as Dun It For Whizkey (by Topsail Whiz); Starbucks Sidekick (by Smart Starbuck) and Masked Gun (by Colonels Smoking Gun). Memorable Man Dun It’s playful demeanor earned him fans across the globe and made him a true ambassador for the sport of reining. According to his 2005 Quarter Horse News obituary, tour busses would stop at the McQuay ranch, and patrons would take photo after photo with the stallion, who always pricked his ears for the cameras. His popularity saw him immortalized as a Breyer horse in 1998 and was inducted into the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame in 2012. He was euthanized due to declining health in March of 2005 at the age of 22. The impact he left on longtime owners Tim and Colleen McQuay and the groundbreaking progress he made in the reining industry will not be forgotten.
