=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Burt Goodman | Severance Wiki | Fandom]
Burt Goodman, known as Burt G. when working at Lumon, was the head of Optics and Design on the severed floor at Lumon Industries up until his retirement. Burt has worked at Lumon for at least twenty years, longer than the Severance procedure has been publicly known to exist.[1] Prior to becoming Severed, he was speculated in Irving's private notes to have worked as a "low-level enforcer or ...
URL: https://severance-tv.fandom.com/wiki/Burt_Goodman

[Severance: Who Burt Is & What Happened Between Him & Irving]
Jan 17, 2025 · Burt Goodman Worked At Lumon For 7 Years Before Retiring Burt Goodman's role at Lumon was the Department Head of the Optics & Design section of the company. O&D is one of the departments working on the Severed Floor, along with Macrodata Refinement, where many of the main characters work, including Mark Scout (Adam Scott) and Irving.
URL: https://screenrant.com/severance-burt-character-lumon-role-irving-relationship-explained/

[Who Is Burt In Severance? How is He Connected To Irving?]
Jan 18, 2025 · Unlike the Macrodata Refinement (MDR) department, which focuses on cryptic data tasks, Optics & Design (O&D) is responsible for curating artwork, distributing handbook tote bags, and operating 3D printing machines. While his role may seem unimportant at first, Burt’s presence in the show turns out to be pivotal. By the time season 1 begins, Burt has been working at Lumon for seven years.
URL: https://www.epicdope.com/severance-who-is-burt-what-really-happened-between-him-irving/

[Severance: Who Burt Is & What Happened Between Him & Irving]
Aug 21, 2025 · Burt Goodman's role at Lumon was the Department Head of the Optics & Design section of the company. O&D is one of the departments working on the Severed Floor, along with Macrodata Refinement, where many of the main characters work, including Mark Scout (Adam Scott) and Irving. The division's responsibilities are somewhat vague and confusing, as are most aspects of the show so far, but they ...
URL: https://www.zolentz.com/news/severance-who-burt-is-what-happened-between-him-irving.html

[Optics and Design - Severance Wiki]
Apr 11, 2025 · Optics and Design, also known as O&D, is a department of Lumon Industries on the Severed floor. O&D appears at first to be a two-person department responsible for the storage, maintenance, and rotation of the large number of Art in Severance in the Lumon collection. Until his retirement, Optics and Design was headed by Burt G alongside Felicia.
URL: https://www.severance.wiki/optics_and_design


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Burt Goodman | Severance Wiki | Fandom] ---
Burt Goodman, known as Burt G. when working at Lumon, was the head of Optics and Design on the severed floor at Lumon Industries up until his retirement. History[] Burt has worked at Lumon for at least twenty years, longer than the Severance procedure has been publicly known to exist.[1] Prior to becoming Severed, he was speculated in Irving's private notes to have worked as a "low-level enforcer or goon" for Lumon, potentially having been associated with several disappearances or deaths. Burt himself would later confirm to Irving that he had "[driven] people places" for Lumon, but claimed that he didn't know what happened to them afterward and had never personally harmed anyone. Burt later became Severed out of a desire for some part of himself to experience innocence once again, as well as to appease his husband Fields, who wished for some version of Burt to be able to join him in heaven once they both died.[2] Burt was leaving a wellness session when he met Irving, who was admiring a painting on the wall. Burt told Irving he was the department chief for Optics and Design, meaning he was responsible for the painting being there. Irving admired his work and when Ms. Casey came to get Irving, they looked at each other before separating.[3] Burt and Felicia were on their way back from an egg-drop challenge in the team-building space when they ran into the team from MDR. While Burt and Irving were happy to see each other, the rest of the group had a contentious interaction before going on their way.[4] Burt came to MDR to bring the new handbook tote bags that Irving was anticipating. He also invited them for a tour of O&D if they wanted. Irving took him up on the offer and showed up in O&D. When Irving mentioned a painting he had loved that was no longer where it was, Burt told him all paintings ended up in O&D once they were done circulating departments and pulled it out to show Irving. While they were admiring it, Burt put his hand on Irving's. Irving soon pulled away and excused himself before leaving to return to MDR. Later, while Burt was hanging new paintings, Irving found him again and Burt said he was worried he'd embarrassed himself. Irving said he hadn't and Burt invited Irving to join him as he made four more stops. Once they were done hanging the new paintings, Burt returned to O&D.[5] Burt decided to go see Irving. Since Irving hadn't come back to O&D, he practiced a joke to avoid scaring Irving, because he believed their hands touching had scared Irving off. Irving came to Burt and was talking to him when Dylan came behind Irving and locked Burt in the room, over Irving's objection. He believed that Burt and O&D were a threat to MDR. They confronted him about his lie that there were only two employees in O&D. Burt said he lied because they didn't trust MDR. There were stories that went around about MDR employees having pouches where they incubated larvae that eventually took them over. Dylan then tied Burt's hands with his belt and they took him back to O&D. Burt invited them both to come in. While Irving and Burt looked at The Courtship of Kier and Imogene and talked about their relationship, Dylan found a painting similar to the one Irving had seen and confronted Burt about it. Irving pointed out that it wasn't the same painting and in the one Burt had, MDR were the aggressors. Burt said it had never gone into the hallway rotation and was called The Macrodata Refinement Calamity. Dylan questioned why there would be two versions of the same painting. Burt then took Dylan and Irving into the storeroom and introduced them as friends to the rest of the O&D employees.[6] Burt took Irving to a plant-filled room. He said he'd found it a while back and used it as a secret place for himself and wanted to share it with Irving. They talked about their relationship and Irving decided that he wasn't ready for a romantic relationship with Burt. Burt said that was fine, but asked him to stay in the room with him. When the entire MDR team came to O&D, Burt led them into the storeroom and introduced the two teams. They shared their mutual lack of knowledge of what they were actually working on and decided that Burt and Mark, as the department heads, would reach out to the goat room, the other department they were aware of, and figure out what they knew. Their conversation was interrupted when Milchick came in and returned the MDR team to their department.[7] When Burt's outie decided to retire, Milchick helped Burt plan a retirement party for his innie. Irving, who had sneaked out of MDR to check on Burt, attended along with the other members of O&D. Milchick tried to order him to leave, but Burt persuaded Milchick to let him stay on the condition that he stayed quiet. They watched a video his outie recorded and then took turns saying goodbye to him.[8] Burt was at home with his husband when Irving came to the door, calling for Burt.[9] After Irving's visit, Burt began watching Irving.[10] When Irving noticed this and confronted him, he said he wanted to know who came to his porch and started yelling his name. When talking to Irving, he realized it wasn't him at all, but his innie. He told Irving he'd been let go from Lumon a few weeks prior and was told it was because he had an inappropriate relationship with another worker. He and his husband Fields both believed it was Irving. Burt invited Irving to join him and Fields for dinner the next night and Irving said he'd be there.[11] Irving came over for the dinner and Fields prepared a ham and corn for them to eat. At the dinner, there was some awkward moments when Burt and Irving's innies' relationship was mentioned. They also told Irving that Burt had decided to get severed after their pastor said that their church's position was that innies were separate individuals with souls and would be judged on their own after they died. Since Outie Burt had had a sordid youth, they saw it as a way for a part of Burt to go to heaven with Fields. As they continued talk, Burt said that they used to call each other Hon, but about ten years ago, it became Attila. Fields corrected that it was twenty years ago, which he remembered because they were out to dinner with Burt's Lumon partner. When Irving pointed out that the first severed office opened twelve years ago, Burt played it off as him being confused and suggested he quit drinking for the night. Fields ignored this and took another sip of his wine. Then he pointed out that there was a non-zero chance that Burt and Irving's innies had had unprotected sex. Despite this, he said he wasn't mad, that he truly believed that innies deserved to experience love. As Burt walked Irving out, he told Irving that Fields would be embarrassed once he sobered up, but he'd be okay. Irving suggested they do it again and said he was okay with it being with Fields or just the two of them.[1] Irving came home one day to find Burt waiting for him, reading Irving's notes, which suggested that Burt was a low-level enforcer or goon for Lumon. Irving backed off, saying he'd realized he was wrong, but Burt asked Irving to go for a ride with him. Burt drove Irving and Radar to a train station. On the way, he told Irving he never hurt anyone. He just drove people placed and didn't ask what happened once they go there. When they got to the train station, Burt gave him a ticket that went as far as Irving could go. He said he couldn't know where Irving got off and he could never return to Kier. Then he told Irving he severed because he liked the idea of part of him being innocent again. Then that part of him fell in love with Irving. Irving said he wanted what his innie had and leaned toward Burt, but Burt said they couldn't and pulled back. They shook hands, said goodbye, and Irving got on the train.[2] Personality[] Burt's Innie persona Burt G. is a very kind and soft-spoken man, behaving in a friendly manner toward his fellow Lumon employees and will stop to chat with them. He is a firm believer in the original teachings of Kier and dislikes the amendments made to the Compliance Handbook, preferring the first edition. His Outie persona is slightly harder-edged, likely in part due to his checkered past in which he worked as a "low-level enforcer or goon" for Lumon. However, when tasked with dealing with Irving Bailiff to prevent interruptions to Lumon's plans, he decided to help Irving escape from Lumon rather than "dispose" of him. Physical Description[] Burt is an older man with pale skin and blue eyes. He has grey hair that he keeps short and neatly styled, and a happy, friendly face. He is always seen in his blue Optics and Design coat and wearing his green identification badge on a lanyard. Relationships[] Burt's Innie seemed to be well-liked by his co-workers in O&D, and especially could often be found working alongside his friend Felicia. Burt and Irving's Innies developed romantic feelings for one another prior to Burt's retirement from O&D. Burt's Outie has a husband named Fields, whom he lives with in a modest single-level ranch home in a southeast neighborhood of Kier. Their relationship became mildly strained when Burt's Innie was fired for having an "unsanctioned erotic engagement" with a Severed coworker, after which Irving's Innie came to their home during the OTC incident. Quotes[] - Burt G: "Well, it's rare to meet a sophisticate." "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" - Burt G: "People are weird." - Burt G: "Irving, you know, the Lumon manual doesn’t say anything about lip-to-lip contact." - Burt G: "Mark and I should make contact with this goat department, see what they know. And we can each bring one aide-de-camp." Notes and Trivia[] - Burt prefers the teachings of the first edition Lumon Compliance Handbook. - Burt G. and Felicia were originally believed to be the only two members of the Optics and Design department by the Macrodata Refinement department. - He likes expensive red wine.[11] - He and Fields live at 3329 Gull Harbor Rd. Kier, PE.[1] Gallery[] Promotional[] Appearances[] | Season 1 | ||||| | #01 | "Good News About Hell" | #04 | "The You You Are" | #07 | "Defiant Jazz" | | #02 | "Half Loop" | #05 | "The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design" | #08 | "What's for Dinner?" | | #03 | "In Perpetuity" | #06 | "Hide and Seek" | #09 | "The We We Are" | | Season 2 | ||||| | #01 | "Hello, Ms. Cobel" | #05 | "Trojan's Horse" | #09 | "The After Hours" | | #02 | "Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig" | #06 | "Attila" | #10 | "Cold Harbor" | | #03 | "Who Is Alive?" | #07 | "Chikhai Bardo" | || | #04 | "Woe's Hollow" | #08 | "Sweet Vitriol" | References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Attila, 2x06 - ↑ 2.0 2.1 The After Hours, 2x09 - ↑ Half Loop, 1x02 - ↑ In Perpetuity, 1x03 - ↑ The You You Are, 1x04 - ↑ The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design, 1x05 - ↑ Hide and Seek, 1x06 - ↑ Defiant Jazz, 1x07 - ↑ The We We Are, 1x09 - ↑ Goodbye, Mrs. Selvig, 2x02 - ↑ 11.0 11.1 Trojan's Horse, 2x05


--- [Severance: Who Burt Is & What Happened Between Him & Irving] ---
No content


--- [Who Is Burt In Severance? How is He Connected To Irving?] ---
Apple TV+’s Severance is back after a long three-year wait, and if you’re feeling a little lost, you’re not alone. With its mind-bending plot and enigmatic characters, it’s easy to forget some of the more intricate storylines – like the complex relationship between Burt and Irving. Played by Hollywood legends Christopher Walken and John Turturro, these two characters share one of the show’s most fascinating and emotional arcs. But who exactly is Burt Goodman, and what really happened between him and Irving? Let’s break it down. Who Is Burt Goodman In Severance? Burt Goodman is the head of the Optics & Design department at Lumon Industries, the eerie and enigmatic company at the heart of Severance. Unlike the Macrodata Refinement (MDR) department, which focuses on cryptic data tasks, Optics & Design (O&D) is responsible for curating artwork, distributing handbook tote bags, and operating 3D printing machines. While his role may seem unimportant at first, Burt’s presence in the show turns out to be pivotal. By the time season 1 begins, Burt has been working at Lumon for seven years. However, his tenure is cut short when Seth Milchick, the ever-smiling yet sinister Lumon enforcer, orders Burt to retire after he brings the MDR team into the O&D space – an act that violates company policy. Burt’s sudden and forced departure is a devastating moment, especially for Irving, who had formed a deep emotional connection with him. What Was The Connection Between Burt & Irving? From the moment Burt and Irving meet, there’s an undeniable spark between them. Their relationship begins subtly, with small conversations and meaningful glances, but it quickly grows into something much deeper. The first major interaction between them happens in the waiting room of the Wellness Center, where they bond over a painting. From that moment on, they begin to find excuses to see each other – taking detours through different departments, lingering a little longer than necessary, and seeking out small moments of connection in Lumon’s cold, sterile environment. As the season progresses, it becomes clear that their relationship is more than just a workplace friendship. Burt and Irving share an unspoken understanding, an almost instinctive bond, leading many to speculate that they may have known each other in the outside world before undergoing severance. This theory is fueled by the way Lumon’s severance chips function – placing employees with pre-existing connections near one another to test the strength of their severed minds. However, their growing relationship is abruptly cut short when Burt is forced to retire. During his retirement party, Irving – already deeply attached to Burt – lashes out at Milchick, revealing just how much Burt means to him. The heartbreak of this separation is evident, setting up one of the most emotionally charged moments in the series. What Did Season 1 Reveal About Burt’s Outside Life? Just when audiences were rooting for Burt and Irving’s romance to transcend the walls of Lumon, Severance season 1 delivered a heartbreaking twist. In the final moments of the season, we get a glimpse of Burt’s life outside of Lumon. When Irving, in his “outie” state, goes searching for Burt, he finds him happily living with another man – implying that Burt already has a romantic partner in the real world. This revelation completely upends Irving’s perception of their connection. Was their romance in Lumon real? Did Burt’s outie have any idea of the bond his severed self had formed? The moment is gut-wrenching, leaving Irving (and the audience) with more questions than answers. It also raises a much larger question: does Lumon deliberately separate loved ones and place them into different severed identities? If so, why? What’s Next For Burt & Irving In Severance Season 2? With Severance season 2 promising to delve deeper into Lumon’s secrets, the Burt-Irving relationship is set to become even more complicated. Irving was already reeling from Burt’s retirement, and now, learning about his outie’s relationship status adds another layer of emotional turmoil. Will Irving confront Burt in the real world? Will his outie seek answers from Lumon about why he feels such an inexplicable pull toward Burt? Moreover, the theory that Burt and Irving knew each other before severance is still on the table. Lumon has a history of manipulating employees’ memories, and it’s possible that their connection goes much further back than either of them realizes. If that’s the case, their relationship could be key to unraveling Lumon’s larger agenda. Final Thoughts: A Love Story or A Tragic Experiment? Burt and Irving’s relationship is one of the most emotionally gripping aspects of Severance, offering a rare glimpse of warmth in an otherwise cold and oppressive world. But is their connection real, or just another experiment in Lumon’s twisted game? Season 2 will undoubtedly dive deeper into their past, their present, and the heartbreaking reality that they might not have a future together. One thing’s for sure – this story is far from over. Read more about this unfinished story (we wrote this one just for you): About Severance Severance is an American science fiction psychological thriller television series created by Dan Erickson and directed by Ben Stiller and Aoife McArdle. It stars Adam Scott, Zach Cherry, Britt Lower, Tramell Tillman, Jen Tullock, Dichen Lachman, Michael Chernus, John Turturro, Christopher Walken, and Patricia Arquette. The series premiered on Apple TV+ on February 18, 2022. The plot follows Mark Scout (Scott), an employee of the fictional corporation Lumon Industries who agrees to a “severance” program in which his non-work memories are separated from his work memories.


--- [Severance: Who Burt Is & What Happened Between Him & Irving] ---
Severance: Who Burt Is & What Happened Between Him & Irving Apple TV+'s Severanceis a convoluted show with several important characters and narratives to keep track of, and Burt and Irving's is one of the most crucial. After three years, the mind-bending sci-fi show with episodes directed by Ben Stiller is finally back, and the long gap contributes to the confusion one might experience tuning back in. Severance's cast features several acting all-stars, including veteran talents like John Turturro (The Batman, Transformers) and Christopher Walken (Dune: Part Two, Pulp Fiction), who play Irving and Burt, respectively. The sci-fi mystery series is centered around a company called Lumon Industries, which uses a procedure called "severance" to disconnect its employees from their home lives. What results is a work atmosphere that feels akin to a malicious cult, with characters struggling to manage their emotions in reaction to lost memories and the constant confusion of only knowing half of their lives. By the time Severance season 1 began, Burt Goodman had worked at Lumon for several years, making him one of the most fascinating supporting characters to unpack as the show went on. Christopher Walken's Burt Goodman Was The Head Of Optics & Design At Lumon In Severance Burt Goodman Worked At Lumon For 7 Years Before Retiring Burt Goodman's role at Lumon was the Department Head of the Optics & Design section of the company. O&D is one of the departments working on the Severed Floor, along with Macrodata Refinement, where many of the main characters work, including Mark Scout (Adam Scott) and Irving. The division's responsibilities are somewhat vague and confusing, as are most aspects of the show so far, but they include curating and cycling the artwork on the Severed Floor, designing and handing out handbook tote bags, and managing the 3D printing machines. Burt had worked at Optics & Design for seven years when the TV series began, managing his eight team members. However, a crucial detail in season 1 was that Burt retired after being told to do so by Seth Milchick (Tramell Tillman) for violating Lumon protocol after he took the MDR crew to view his office space. Burt has a retirement party thrown for him on the last day, which Irving steps in on, causing him to lash out at Milchick for his involvement in the matter. Burt's Relationship With Irving In Severance Explained Burt & Irving Almost Instantly Developed A Profound Bond Burt's role in Severance is hard to understand without connecting him to Irving Bailiff, as their relationship is a crucial aspect of both of their season 1 arcs. Irving struggles at the beginning of season 1, resulting in him taking a trip to the Wellness Center. In the waiting room, he meets Burt and the two bond over a painting. Following this encounter, the pair begin finding excuses to go visit or look for each other, which is a huge catalyst for the MDR department's growing curiosity about their role in the company and what it's all really for. Throughout Severance season 1, Burt and Irving's relationship goes from friendly to romantic. This becomes a huge part of Irving's story, as he tries to spend his time as an outie searching for Burt, hoping to solidify their relationship away from Lumon. Due to their almost immediate attraction and the profound way in which they seem to connect, many have theorized that Burt and Irving have had some sort of relationship outside of work and that they already know each other. Burt's Life In The Outside World & What It Means For Severance Season 2 Burt Seems To Have A Romantic Partner As An Outie Severance season 1's ending throws the Burt and Irving theory for a loop, as audiences finally get a glimpse at Burt's life outside of Lumon following his retirement. When Irving goes to try to find him, Burt is shown to already have a romantic partner with whom he appears to be happily living. Given that this happened at the tail-end of the season, the reaction to this has yet to be shown, and it should define much of what Irving does in Severance season 2. He was already heartbroken over Burt retiring, and now he has even more he'll have to reckon with. Lumon places employees with connections near one another to test the strength of their chips Despite what audiences get to see of Burt's personal life, it's still far from being out of the realm of possibility for him and Irving to have some connection in the outside world. Lumon places employees with connections near one another to test the strength of their chips, and there are some other interesting points to suggest they know each other. Severance season 2 will continue to explore these characters, and it'll be fascinating to see where their stories lead. Severance - Release Date - February 18, 2022 Severance is a psychological thriller series featuring Adam Scott as Mark Scout, an employee at Lumon Industries who undergoes a "severance" procedure to separate his work and personal memories. However, as work and life personas mysteriously begin to collide, it quickly becomes clear that not all is as it seems. Created by Dan Erickson and directed by Ben Stiller and Aoife McArdle. - Cast - Adam Scott, Britt Lower, Zach Cherry, Tramell Tillman, Jen Tullock, Dichen Lachman, Michael Chernus, John Turturro, Christopher Walken, Patricia Arquette, Sarah Bock, Marc Geller, Michael Cumpsty - Seasons - 2


--- [Optics and Design - Severance Wiki] ---
Proceed with caution. Wiki Menu Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Categories Stay Updated Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Connect Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Contribute · About · Stats · Tags Get the latest Severance news on the Media Wall. Looking for our Discord link? You won't find it. But the community is still going! Optics and Design, also known as O&D, is a department of Lumon Industries on the Severed floor. O&D appears at first to be a two-person department responsible for the storage, maintenance, and rotation of the large number of Art in Severance in the Lumon collection. Until his retirement, Optics and Design was headed by Burt G alongside Felicia. Their workspace is dominated by cabinets and flat file drawers of artworks. Each has a work table where they examine and restore the paintings. However, O&D is much larger than previously thought with an enormous hidden room full of 3-D printers churning out domestic objects and an additional staff of seven more people. People who work in O&D wear blue lab coats and green badges. Behind a door located inside of O&D, there is a vast workspace with rows and rows of 3-D printers. Objects produced by the machine include hatchets, watering cans, and snow globes. It is likely the many uniform green objects in the Wellington room on the Testing Floor came from these printers. There is a long-standing but little understood enmity between O&D and Macrodata Refinement. According to Lumon mythos, one department attacked and slaughtered the other, but the identity of attacker and victim changes depending on which department is told the story, assuming the incident occurred at all. This tale is depicted variously in the paintings titled The Grim Barbarity of Optics and Design (painting) and The Macrodata Refinement Calamity. Optics and Design are also responsible for the cohesive branding of all objects on the severed floor and the narrow and precise color palettes that Lumon employees enjoy as their only visual stimulus. According to O&D legend, MDR all have pouches, such as those used to carry young. They each have a larval offspring that will jump out and attack if O&D workers get too close to them. The larva eventually eats and replaces the MDR worker, rejuvenating them.
