=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[WHITTIER COMIC FEST 2023 - My Whittier Podcast | Listen Notes]
Sep 20, 2023 · Today I had the opportunity to sit down with Eric Hauser. He is the owner of Anytime Promotions. He specializes in Comic Book Artist and Event Promotions. Eric has some big news he wanted to share with the city of Whittier. He is putting together Whittier's first Comic Fest here in town. He gave us all of the details on this great event happening right here in Whittier. You can follow # ...
URL: https://www.listennotes.com/podcasts/my-whittier-podcast/whittier-comic-fest-2023--N6mbon7Owc/

[Newsletter June/July 2025 - Kathy Garver]
WHITTIER COMIC FEST ON JUNE 22ND! Whittier Comic Fest. Take Back Summer and plan to ...
URL: http://www.kathygarver.com/newsletter-junejuly-2025

[Whittier, California Newspaper Archives | NewspaperArchive]
Jan 16, 2021 · Look though Whittier newspapers for Whittier, California obituaries, Whittier marriage announcements, and other Whittier records by type! Narrow your search results down to Whittier obituaries, Whittier birth records, Whittier marriage records, Whittier military lists, and more! Refine your search to find exactly the records you are looking for.
URL: https://newspaperarchive.com/search/location/us/ca/whittier/

[Whittier Comic Fest 2023 - YouTube]
We visit the first annual Whittier Comic Fest. It was a nice little convention and after talking to the promoter, we can't wait to see it grow.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FErBTafCWN4


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [WHITTIER COMIC FEST 2023 - My Whittier Podcast | Listen Notes] ---
ABOUT THIS EPISODE Today I had the opportunity to sit down with Eric Hauser. He is the owner of Anytime Promotions. He specializes in Comic Book Artist and Event Promotions. Eric has some big news he wanted to share with the city of Whittier. He is putting together Whittier's first Comic Fest here in town. He gave us all of the details on this great event happening right here in Whittier. You can follow #anytimepromotions on IG as well as #whittiercomicfest I hope you enjoy the interview. Follow Us Facebook, Instagram Subscribe to my Youtube Channel “MY WHITTIER TV” Listen to the My Whittier Podcast: iTunes, Spotify, iheartradio & www.anchor.fm/mywhittier Please visit our website: www.mywhittier.com this is headquarters for us with direct links to everything we do. You can also message us directly from there. Visit our Pop Up 10046 Scott Ave. Whittier, CA 90603 Located inside Scott Storage front office Hours: Monday – Saturday 10-1 & 2-5:30 Please Note: Saturday the only forms of payment we take is Zelle, Venmo & Cash This Podcast is sponsored by: Scott Storage Pizzamania MSF Fitness California Grill Fisk Comics JFG Print Company Team Remo Real Estate Group The Pressure Boys Fejjab Spa Unidos Community Events / Cultura Market Sponsorship inquiries please contact me: contactmywhittier@gmail.com


--- [Newsletter June/July 2025 - Kathy Garver] ---
| Take Back Summer with Kathy Garver! ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ ͏ | All my life I have loved summer. I think that starts when we are children, because there’s nothing better than having 3 months out of school to do as you please! But everything changes when you’re grown up. Remember when summer was a time of new beginnings? Hours out in the sun, playing with friends, riding bikes, getting into mischief. You would head out first thing in the morning and come back as the sun sets in the horizon. | Summers, as you grew older, became the time you got your first job, a driver’s license, have your first summer romance (followed by your first tearful breakup!). As you move from teenager to young adult, summers were still magical, but the magic was becoming increasingly fleeting. | | | |---| | | I don’t remember when summer stopped being special for me, but I know when it became special AGAIN – when I was raising my son Reid. There’s nothing like growing up with your child all over again, making the kinds of memories for him that you treasure from your own life! Kids today don’t have it quite the way we did – there isn’t a lot of unsupervised bike riding and mischief-making, but it’s still summer! This year, I invite you join me in drive to Take Back Summer! Summer doesn’t have to lose its magic just because we get older or don’t have little ones running around. Whether you’re working really hard, retired, or somewhere in-between, try to recapture the special magic that summer used to in earlier years! You can Take Back Summer just by making time to read every day, and I want to make it easier for you to Take Back Summer with a special sale of all of my books, on sale now at kathygarver.com, From now to July 4th, any book purchased online will enjoy free delivery, and I will sign the book to boot! Take advantage of this offer now, because when the fireworks start going of on Independence Day, the special will be over! | Enjoy the newsletter, and please email me and let me know how you plan to Take Back Summer this year! I will publish the most interesting responses next issue! | | | |---| | | IT IS A BUSY SUMMER OF MOVIE PROJECTS FOR KATHY, AND IT ALL STARTS AT THE WHITTIER COMIC FEST ON JUNE 22ND! | | | Take Back Summer and plan to meet Kathy in person on Sunday, June 22, at the Whittier Comic Fest. This annual event, held at Whittier’s The Rose Gardens, is a weekend fun fest with all your favorite celebrities. Kathy will be appearing from noon to 6 pm, and with so many projects on her plate this spring, you may not get a better chance to see her for a while! Click here for her special promotional video! | | | |---| | | | CHRISTMAS IN JULY PREMIERE FOR KATHY’S LONG-AWAITED NEW FILM CHRISTMAS AT THE ROANOKE RANCH Christmas has always been Kathy’s favorite time of year, and she has TWO Christmas movies coming! The first one is Christmas at the Roanoke Ranch, a heart-warming story of saving therapy ranch with horses for kids while a news anchor and cowboy lawyer fall in love in the process. | | |---| | | | READ MY LIPS! GUS BEGAN FILMING IN MAY! Ventriloquism just got real in Angus Benfield’s hilarious new fantasy/comedy movie Gus, and Kathy joins the cast as the wife of Mr. Magic! Kathy won’t have to travel far to film this one as it will be produced by Lama Entertainment Productions in Los Angeles. | | |---| | | | | CAN’T GET ENOUGH OF THAT CHRISTMAS SPIRIT Kathy is most excited about her starring role in Adam Rivera’s A Mother’s Christmas. Kathy will travel to Deltona, Florida, to assume her role as Abigail, who wonders if she will spend Christmas alone, or will her wish of having her whole family together for Christmas come true? | | |---| | | REMIND MAGAZINE CELEBRATES KATHY GARVER’S WORK ON THE TEN COMMANDMENTS | | | Kathy is featured in the April 2025 Remind Magazine in an article celebrating her work on the iconic The Ten Commandments. Kathy was only 8 years old when she was hired as an extra for the great Cecil DeMille’s epic religious drama of Moses’ parting of the Red Sea as he led his people out of bondage in Egypt. Kathy shares how DeMille was captured by her presence as “Rebecca,” a little girl for whom he built a bigger scene around to showcase her special chemistry with the camera. Kathy’s interview with Barb Oates is a must-read for fans who remember this amazing film. Read about it here! | | |---| | | SAYING FAREWELL TO JAY NORTH, AN EARLY TRAILBLAZER FOR CHILD STARS! | | Who doesn’t remember the antics of Mr. Wilson’s hyper-energetic next door neighbor Dennis Mitchell, a real menace in his drive to be helpful to his retired best friend! The blond-haired moppet with the pronounced cowlick starred in 146 madcap episodes over 4 seasons, and his show has rarely been off the air since, thanks to reruns. His passing on April 6 this year reminds us of how brief and precious life is, and Kathy appeared on The Jim Masters Show to share warm memories of Jay and her friend, author and actress Elaine Ballace, who also passed away this spring. You’ll love all the memories we share, and it is especially nice that we were able to share good times with Jeanne Russell (Jay’s co-star as Margaret), Jon Provost (Lassie). Emmy-award winner Geoffrey Mark, and popular 1970s child star Rodney Allen Rippy. You can find the program on YouTube by clicking here. | GABBIN CABIN’S MARK EDWARD WILOWS INTERVIEWS KATHY AT THE CROWN ANTIQUE MALL | Kathy made a personal appearance at the Crown Antique Mall in Uniontown, Pennsylvania on May 4 while she was there filming her new movie The Thing About Pickles. She was thrilled when she ran into old friend Mark, host of the popular podcast Gabbin Cabin with Mark Edward Wilows. Kathy first appeared on his show in 2022 discussing the many facets of her life that keep her busy, and since then, things always get exciting when the two of them get together. After they saw each other at the mall (where Kathy firmly states that she is a collectible, NOT an antique!), Mark accepted Kathy’s invitation to film a scene with her in The Thing About Pickles. He turned up last week in Hollywood to see Lucie Arnaz’s fundraiser Lucie on the Lot for Dr. Sam at Paramount Studios that featured a screening of Lucy & Desi: A Home Movie. Mark took a great picture of Lucie and Kathy, and as usual, Kathy and Mark painted the town red. | | | |---| | WHAT IS THE THING ABOUT THE THING ABOUT PICKLES? | | Kathy’s new film The Thing About Pickles wrapped filming in May in Pennsylvania, and the Hollywood trade magazines are abuzz with chatter about this new family drama/mystery movie, now in post-production. The film is set in rural Indiana, and Kathy was joined by her remarkable cast, including Dee Wallace, Robert Craighead, Suzette Brown and Bruce Speilbauer. Kathy describes the movie as “a drama that explores family dynamics, mystery and heartfelt stories.” She also says that she is really enjoying the opportunity to get out of California and film her projects in many states in the East, including Pennsylvania, Illinois, Georgia, Florida and others. “The current wave of projects being produced outside of the Hollywood bubble gives us a chance to share the lives of Americans across the country.” Kathy is excited about this film because she says it is an “engaging drama” that can be likened to Steel Magnolias meets The Whales of August. Watch this space for more details about the rest of the cast, photos and more! | NEVER A DULL MOMENT – KATHY’S BUSY SCHEDULE AND UPCOMING PROJECTS!· Kathy just joined director and writer Jerry Cornell filming segments of his documentary project, The Character Series. They discussed the character of Cissy on Family Affair, and on a film showcasing Saturday morning cartoon series, they discussed her voice acting role as Firestar on Spider-Man and His Amazing Friends. Watch future newsletters for links! · Carol Connors entertained everyone at the Smokehouse in Burbank on May 17 during the Motion Picture Mothers Club Luncheon. Not only did she sign her wonderful new book, Elvis, Rocky and Me, but she sang too! Elvis would be proud! · Kathy has completed work on the Audiobook version of friend Carol Connors’ new book Elvis, Rocky and Me, and it will be released soon by Blackstone through Bear Media! · Kathy has been asked to write the Forward for an upcoming book, All About Anne, about Kathy’s Ten Commandments co-star Anne Baxter. This much-anticipated book is being written by best-selling author Dr. Lona Baxter. Can the Audiobook be far behind?· Kathy will soon be working on some new audio dramas, together with Andrew Nelson. · Kathy was thrilled to support her friend Nelson Aspen at the post Four Seasons hotel in Beverly Hills as he hosted a book signing for his newest book: Kindred Spirits: A Titanic Tale. | KATHY SPENDS MOTHER’S DAY IN INDIANA THIS YEARMother’s Day is usually a pretty big deal around Kathy’s house in Los Angeles, but her work on the new film The Thing About Pickles found her spending the day on the East Coast with friends and her movie’s cast members. Kathy was joined by members of the cast and crew – and her friend Mark Edward Wilows! – for Mother’s Day Brunch at the rustic Industrial Revolution Restaurant in Valparaiso, Indiana. | KATHY CELEBRATES HER DEAR MOTHER ROSEMARY’S HEAVENLY BIRTHDAY Mother’s Day may be one of the most special days Kathy spends with her family every May, but she always finds time to celebrate a second time each year on May 19, her mother Rosemary’s Heavenly Birthday. Kathy visited the site where both her mother and father we laid to rest at Forest Lawn in Hollywood. Rosemary was born in 1912, and she shared a life with husband Hayes dedicated to their remarkable children. Smart, nurturing, and loved by all – even though she has been gone since 1990, her influence continues to live on to this day, burning like a bright candle in Kathy’s heart and mind. | ANOTHER BIRTHDAY FOR THE UNSINKABLE RUTA LEE! The versatile, talented Ruta Lee has celebrated another birthday entertaining friends and family with a dynamite one-woman show. This year, Ruta celebrated her milestone 90th birthday, and she shared her favorite songs, stories and bits of wisdom to a standing-room-only crowd of the top names of Hollywood, yesterday and today! John Schneider of The Dukes of Hazard presented Ruta with a special proclamation honoring her by the city of Hollywood. She also received a proclamation from the Lithuanian Consulate honoring her important international work that has changed the lives of so many people. This event is definitely one of the top parties of the year, and it is an honor to be a guest among such wonderful, warm people. | | I can’t think of anything more fun that curling up with a good book on a lazy summer afternoon! We still have a hammock in our backyard at my house, and I treasure those carefree mid-summer afternoons when there is a hint of a cool ocean breeze blowing through the canyon and gently rocking me as I lay in the hammock with a good book and a refreshing Hard Lemonade over ice in a frosty glass! Pictured here are my best-selling books, and I you can find them on sale now at www.kathygarver.com through sundown on July 4th. | MY NEW BOOK IS COMING THIS FALL! | | | Probably my most-anticipated book ever is finally set to roll off the press in just a few months’ time. Romancing the Stars, written with my good friend Doug Hartline, shares inspiring love stories that provide a different, positive look at Hollywood relationships that stood the test of time! People who have read advance copies can’t put the book down, and I know you will love it too! Preorder it now on my website! | | | |---| | | | |


--- [Whittier, California Newspaper Archives | NewspaperArchive] ---
1 Newspaper publication • 1,024 Pages 2018 | Title | Years Available | Pages | Last Updated | |---|---|---|---| | Whittier Daily News | 2018-2018 | 1,024 | 16 Jan 2021 | You can search through Whittier, California newspapers for free! Browse through publications and see if we have the stories you’re looking for. Also check out the popular pages and the clippings to see what those around you. Browse through 1 old Whittier newspapers for free and find family, historical events, and more. Learn the history of Whittier through full access to all newspaper images with a free trial. Newspaper Archive is constantly seeking out more historical newspapers to expand our archive. There are 1 publishers in Whittier California dating back to 2018, so there’s a good chance you’ll find some treasures. The Newspaper Archive team is constantly seeking out more historical newspapers to add to our archives, so you can find exactly what you need. We reach out to libraries, historical societies, and newspaper publishers so we can find more records from Whittier and all over the world. Search through Whittier newspaper archives to find publications dating back to 2018. Look though Whittier newspapers for Whittier, California obituaries, Whittier marriage announcements, and other Whittier records by type! Narrow your search results down to Whittier obituaries, Whittier birth records, Whittier marriage records, Whittier military lists, and more! Refine your search to find exactly the records you are looking for. If you are interested in searching for historical newspaper records from Whittier, California, you’ve come to the right place. With our extensive collection of digitized newspapers, you can easily search for articles and other content from the comfort of your own home and refine your search to Whittier, California. To begin your search, you can either browse through the popular publications in Whittier, California below, or use our robust search above that will refine your search by people, events or other keywords in Whittier, California. Once you have entered your search terms, you will be presented with a list of relevant articles and other content from our database. From there, you can easily browse through the results and find the information you are looking for. Whether you are a historian, researcher, or just someone interested in local history, our site provides a wealth of information about Whittier, California and its surrounding areas.


--- [Whittier Comic Fest 2023 - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
