=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Punkature | Malcolm McLaren | Vivienne Westwood - Explore the Collections - V&A]
Dec 19, 2003·Part of 'Punkature' collection, spring/summer 1983. Collection. Textiles and Fashion Collection. Accession number. T.23:1, 2-2003. About this ...
URL: https://collections.vam.ac.uk/item/O87875/punkature-sandal-vivienne-westwood/

[The Story so Far | Vivienne Westwood®]
Punkature, Spring-Summer 1983 – Inspiration: 'Blade Runner', desert landscape. – Distressed fabric and recycled junk. – Punk and couture. – Hand-dyed, hand- ...
URL: https://www.viviennewestwood.com/en-us/westwood-world/the-story-so-far/

[Lot 343 - A Westwood/McLaren 'Punkature' ensemble, - Kerry Taylor Auctions]
A Westwood/McLaren 'Punkature' ensemble, Spring-Summer 1983. World's End labels, comprising: a pair of white cotton shorts with integral brown leather braces ...
URL: https://www.kerrytaylorauctions.com/auction/lot/lot-343---a-westwoodmclaren-punkature-ensemble-spring-summer-1983/?lot=36590

[VIVIENNE WESTWOOD (1941–2022) - Artforum]
Still from video documentation of Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren's Spring/Summer 1983 “Punkature” collection.
URL: https://www.artforum.com/features/patric-dicaprio-hillary-taymour-and-barbara-sanchez-kane-on-vivienne-westwood-252479/

['Punkature' 1983 summer collection, Vivienne Westwood & Malcolm McLaren - YouTube]
Oct 21, 2009·At Paris Louvre Couture week Oct 1982 Shown initially on Italian RAI TV Mr Fantasy 1983-4 sitting high in the weekly chart.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=miMkdjDMmKg


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Punkature | Malcolm McLaren | Vivienne Westwood - Explore the Collections - V&A] ---
View by appointment This object is part of the Order an Object service. Use 'Order this Object' to add it to your list, where you can confirm your objects and book your appointment. Punkature Sandal 1983 (made) 1983 (made) | Artist/Maker | | | Place of origin | Man-made fibre shoes, no uppers. Toes and tops of feet exposed. Soles slightly curled up over toes. Long blue cording threads around edge of shoes and end in purple tassles. Object details | Categories | | | Object type | | | Parts | This object consists of 2 parts. | | Title | Punkature (named collection) | | Materials and techniques | Man-made fibre | | Brief description | Pair of sandals of grey synthetic material, tied with blue laces; Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren, Great Britain, 1983 | | Physical description | Man-made fibre shoes, no uppers. Toes and tops of feet exposed. Soles slightly curled up over toes. Long blue cording threads around edge of shoes and end in purple tassles. | | Dimensions | | | Credit line | Given by Simon Barker | | Production | Part of 'Punkature' collection, spring/summer 1983 | | Collection | | | Accession number | T.23:1, 2-2003 | About this object record Explore the Collections contains over a million catalogue records, and over half a million images. It is a working database that includes information compiled over the life of the museum. Some of our records may contain offensive and discriminatory language, or reflect outdated ideas, practice and analysis. We are committed to addressing these issues, and to review and update our records accordingly. You can write to us to suggest improvements to the record. Suggest feedback You can write to us to suggest improvements to the record. Suggest feedback | Record created | December 19, 2003 | | Record URL | Download as: JSON


--- [The Story so Far | Vivienne Westwood®] ---
Westwood World The Story so Far — 430 Kings Road 1971 – 1980 The hippie movement was the most popular fashion in late 1960s London, but it didn’t inspire young Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren. They were much more intrigued by acts of rebellion and typical 1950s clothing, music, and memorabilia. Vivienne began by designing and making Teddy Boy clothes for Malcolm and in 1971 they opened a small boutique called Let it Rock at number 430 Kings Road, Chelsea in London. A year later, Vivienne’s interests had turned to biker clothing, zips, and leather. The shop re-branded with a skull and crossbones and was renamed Too Fast to Live, Too Young to Die. Vivienne and Malcolm began to design their own t-shirts with provocative printed slogans, which led to their prosecution under the 1959 Obscene Publications Act; they responded by re-branding the shop once again and producing even more t-shirts featuring hard-core images. By 1974 the shop was renamed Sex, a shop “unlike anything else going on in England at the time” they used the slogan ‘rubberwear for the office’. Two years later, popular band the Sex Pistols’ (managed by Malcolm) song ‘God Save the Queen’ went to number one in the charts but was refused airtime by the BBC. The shop reopened as Seditionaries, transforming the straps and zips of obscure sexual fetishism and bondage into fashion, and inspiring a D.I.Y. aesthetic. The mass media labelled this as ‘Punk Rock’. The collapse of the Sex Pistols and the adoption of punk by the mainstream left Vivienne disenchanted. In 1980 the shop was refitted and renamed Worlds End, which is still the name that’s in use today. The shop’s basement was formerly a restaurant, but Worlds End eventually absorbed it to expand the stockroom and staff facilities. Officially the shop hasn’t changed aesthetically since opening its doors. The original interior was restored in 2017, but all details remain as they were designed by Vivienne and Malcolm 40 years ago. Vivienne used her creations to communicate ideas – often using graphics to confront issues of political and social injustice. The swastika symbol seen on the 1977 Anarchy Shirt, designed by Westwood & McLaren, was laid over an inverted image of Christ on the crucifix and Queen Elizabeth II on a British stamp, with the word 'DESTROY' emblazoned above the image. The graphics were meant as a provocative act of denouncing corruption and dictatorship. More broadly, it was a meant as a means to challenge the older generation, of saying “We don’t accept your values or your taboos - you’re all fascists.” The Early Years 1981 – 1987 In 1984 the Nostalgia of Mud shop (now known as Worlds End) closes in West London and Vivienne relocates to Italy. Vivienne receives an invitation to show her Spring-Summer 1984 ‘Hypnos’ collection in Tokyo at Hanae Mori’s ‘Best of Five’ global fashion awards, with Calvin Klein, Claude Montana, and Gianfranco Ferre. Vivienne Westwood opens another London boutique on Davies Street in 1988. In 1986 the orb logo was first used to symbolize taking tradition into the future. Carlo D’Amario was appointed Managing Director of Vivienne Westwood Ltd in 1986. The 1981 ‘Pirate’ Collection was Vivienne Westwood and Malcolm McLaren’s first official collaborative catwalk show. It informed the aesthetic of The Worlds End Boutique with its pirate’s galleon and ship features. This collection was filled with romantic looks in gold, orange, and yellow which burst onto the London fashion scene, ensuring its place in the house’s history of influence. ‘We’ve only stopped to note significant innovations, otherwise, the ideas carry through and develop throughout the collections.’ ‘Pirate’, Autumn-Winter 1981/82 was their first catwalk show. Looking at plundering history and the Third World. The research was into historical dress, keeping the original cuts as fashion. Inspired by Native American patterns, the ‘Pirate’ trousers had a baggy bum, in complete contrast to hippy hipsters and ‘tight arses’ of the time. The position of the neck when worn, was asymmetrical. At this pivotal point in her career, Vivienne reimagined techniques based on traditional rectangular cuts. She had an idea she knew would work, knocked it up in rough and on a small scale, and tried it out on a little dummy. Through various adjustments and fittings, she arrived at a full-scale finished garment in the right fabric. Clothes always have a dynamic with the body. She continues to mix this in with historical cuts. Collections: Savage, Spring-Summer 1982 – Flat cutting from Japan. – Inspired by: Matisse and Picasso. – “In taking from other cultures I’m just doing what Picasso did in his painting Demoiselles d’Avignon’” (Vivienne) – Examines rapport between clothes and the body. – Slashed sleeves and contrast linings. – David Lynch’s ‘The Elephant Man’ inspired foreign legion hats. Buffalo Girls (Nostalgia of Mud), Autumn-Winter 1982/83 – Colours: Mud. – Raw cut sheepskin. – Bras – underwear as outerwear. – Inspiration: Peruvian women wearing bowler hats and full skirts, dancing with their babies tied on their back. Punkature, Spring-Summer 1983 – Inspiration: ‘Blade Runner’, desert landscape. – Distressed fabric and recycled junk. – Punk and couture. – Hand-dyed, hand-stitched. – Shoes of disused tyres and cord from favelas. – Giant tin can buttons. – The jersey Tube skirt. Witches, Autumn-Winter 1983/84 – Visit to New York, met Keith Haring. His art looked like magic signs and hieroglyphics. Therefore – collection “Witches”. – Hip Hop, styling of garments. – Stop-frame look. – White trainers customised with three tongues. – Pointed Chico Marx hats. Hypnos, Spring-Summer 1984 – Image: Greek God of Sleep – Collection nothing to do with sleep. – Very active, sportswear as high fashion. – Collaboration with Malcolm McLaren ceased. – Made in Italy. – Inspiration: gay subcultures. – Herpes sores makeup. Clint Eastwood, Autumn-Winter 1984/85 – Vivienne said, “Sometimes you need to transport your idea to an empty landscape and then populate it with fantastic looking people.” – Fluorescent big macs and body stockings, clothes covered in company logos. – Day-Glo patches inspired by Tokyo’s neon signs. Mini-Crini, Spring-Summer 1985 – Cardinal change. Fitted clothes. – English tailoring. Princess line coats, inspired by the Queen as a child. – Wish to kill masculine big shoulders of the 1980s. – Models are sexy, and curvaceous. – Attention drawn to hips. – Inspiration: Petrushka. – Rocking horse shoes.


--- [Lot 343 - A Westwood/McLaren 'Punkature' ensemble, - Kerry Taylor Auctions] ---
No content


--- [VIVIENNE WESTWOOD (1941–2022) - Artforum] ---
By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. BÁRBARA SÁNCHEZ-KANE VIVIENNE DIDN’T OCCUPY a single specific place; she exposed new means of distorted possibilities. Her vision climbed as wild seeds dispersed with the power of wind, forging dissident underground gardens. I know those gardens will erupt and influence others to arise. Bárbara Sánchez-Kane is a fashion designer and artist based in Mexico City. PATRIC DICAPRIO VIVIENNE WESTWOOD is part of my holy trinity: Martin Margiela, Rei Kawakubo, Vivienne Westwood. She represents the unification of polar opposites: honest + mysterious, futuristic + historical, soft-spoken + sartorially loaded, subversive + respectful, dreadfully serious + playful. My obsession with Vivienne solidified several years back when I discovered a 1982 video of her “Punkature” show. I was blown away. The clothes looked old and tattered, as if they had been dug up from the earth. The models came down the runway at their own pace: some sauntering and teasing the crowd, others running alone or in twos and threes. There’s a sense of urgency, as if Viv and the models couldn’t wait another minute to unleash the collection on the world. The audience is laughing with pleasure. There is a playful, utopian feel, as if to say, “Imagine if fashion (or the world) could be this easy, simple, and beautiful.” There is a video of her being interviewed directly after, and she can barely speak. Had she just emerged from a trance? Had Vivienne, through the staging moments before, been channeling a divine purpose, speaking in tongues? When I discovered this video, I had already started Vaquera but had not yet done a runway show. I had always pictured runway shows to be pretentious, utilitarian, inaccessible. “Punkature” was evidence to the contrary. The cast and the message are so relatable. Before I knew it, Vaquera was booking a church, then a Chinese restaurant, then a boxing gym for shows of our own. We became a brand known for our shows, and I owe a lot of that to Vivienne and to that video in particular. Patric Dicaprio is a New York–based fashion designer and the founder and creative director of Vaquera. HILLARY TAYMOUR I HAVE ALWAYS been so inspired by Dame Vivienne Westwood’s activism. I remember a picture of her CLIMATE REVOLUTION T-shirt from spring/summer 2013 really opening my eyes. She is a pioneer in every way: The simple idea of having a large fashion brand and telling your consumers to shop less and be more conscientious and active feels inconceivable—until you see her work. Fashion and politics are practically impossible to balance, and she paved the path for designers like me to continue the narrative. It is rare to have designers who are not mimicking culture but rather creating it. Westwood will be forever a hero in fashion. Hillary Taymour is the founding designer of the fashion house Collina Strada.


--- ['Punkature' 1983 summer collection, Vivienne Westwood & Malcolm McLaren - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
