=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[From a Doll's Wardrobe: Maison Martin Margiela A/W 1994 ...]
Nov 17, 2016 · In the autumn/winter 1994-95 women’s prêt-à-porter collection designed by Maison Martin Margiela, some clothes showed unusual features. These items all reported a second label, which stated: ‘Garments reproduced from a doll’s wardrobe (details and disproportions are reproduced in the enlargements)’. Dolls and fashion have tight connections. If in recent times dolls are associated ...
URL: http://fashionblog.image.ece.ntua.gr/2016/11/17/from-a-dolls-wardrobe-maison-martin-margiela-aw-1994-95/

[History of a House: Martin Margiela - L'Officiel Ibiza]
Maison Martin Margiela Fall-Winter 1994 Collection Inspired by Barbie Clothes From 1997 to 2003, in addition to his Maison, he dedicated himself to the Hermès women's collections in which he experimented with his minimalist cuts and deconstruction even in the world of leather goods.
URL: https://www.lofficielibiza.com/fashion/a-white-tale-the-story-of-la-maison-martin-margiela

[Maison Martin Margiela A/W 1994 Reproduction From A Dolls ...]
Autumn/Winter 1994 collection by Martin Margiela Buttermilk knitted top with oversized poppers. A collectors item later reissued. In his A/W 1994 collection, Martin Margiela introduced a collection called “Clothing reproduced from a doll’s wardrobe.” This collection featured doll-sized garments blown up to human size, maintaining the disproportion of the doll’s body, the garments, and ...
URL: https://www.maevintage.com/shop/p/maison-margiela-aw94-buttermilk-knitted-top

[Maison Martin Margiela | A Project]
The "Barbie" Fall-Winter 1994 collection introduces the concept of "Replica" by reproducing and enlarging the clothes of the dolls to adapt them to the human figure. Since 1994, clothes and accessories collected around the world continue to be reproduced and integrated into seasonal collections as part of the "Replica" concept.
URL: https://angelicatanzini.wixsite.com/aproject/maison-martin-margiela

[Margiela Runway History - Fall 1994]
YouTube · Bliss Foster · Jul 21, 2020 · 17:31
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLiOi9jgo6E


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [From a Doll's Wardrobe: Maison Martin Margiela A/W 1994 ...] ---
From a Doll’s Wardrobe: Maison Martin Margiela A/W 1994-95 In the autumn/winter 1994-95 women’s prêt-à-porter collection designed by Maison Martin Margiela, some clothes showed unusual features. These items all reported a second label, which stated: ‘Garments reproduced from a doll’s wardrobe (details and disproportions are reproduced in the enlargements)’. Dolls and fashion have tight connections. If in recent times dolls are associated with the particular image of the sassy fashionista, in the past they have been an important method of communication and reproduction of fashion. Their minute dimensions were an advantage for couturiers and textile producers, since they could use them to present their creations to a broader public with a moderate use of fabric and limited shipping expenses. However, their minute dimensions also represented a limit, for accessories and cuts couldn’t be reproduced in exact proportion. Looking at the clothes designed for popular dolls like Barbie, Ken and G.I. JOE, Maison Martin Margiela focused on these peculiarities, as the zippers and buttons, pockets, un-anatomic cuts and unfinished details and up-scaled them to life size, making this disproportions more evident. Though playful in his approach, with this overturn Maison Martin Margiela explored the concept of the standardised body, highlighting its contractions and conventions, as magnified in the idealized and un-realistic features of the toy dolls; the collection also reflected on how both the female and male bodies are keen to undergo this process of standardisation by fashion and social ideals. In the collection, odd details as oversized accessories, un-attached collars and seams left with uncut threads contributed to the atmosphere of ‘unease’ that was associated to the mystique of the Maison. Sticking to the overarching project, the knitwear pieces of the collection were even realized with a thicker thread, accordingly to the false proportions of the toys’ clothes. The Maison also reprised this theme for the spring/summer 1999 menswear prêt-à-porter line, which featured coats with faux oversized front buttons, chunk zippers and and huge ID tag chains. Find more pictures from this and other Maison Martin Margiela collections in the Europeana Fashion portal and learn more about Barbies and dolls in fashion exploring related entries our blog.


--- [History of a House: Martin Margiela - L'Officiel Ibiza] ---
History of a House: Martin Margiela Father of sartorial deconstruction and creator of the white label. The story of Martin Margiela and the most mysterious Maison in history. Father of sartorial deconstruction and creator of the white label. The story of Martin Margiela and the most mysterious Maison in history.


--- [Maison Martin Margiela A/W 1994 Reproduction From A Dolls ...] ---
- Mint - Virtually no wear, usually refers to vintage that has never been worn. Excellent - Expected signs of wear with consideration of the age, but hardly any signs of it. Very Good - Shows normal signs of wear expected for age with some minor visible problems but will not detract from wear. Good - Garment has obvious condition from wear, but overall intact. Could use mending and/or cleaning. Fair - A piece of vintage that is most likely not wearable, but could serve as a fantastic inspiration piece. Please keep in mind that in most cases, vintage is pre-worn, and as a result pieces will show some minor wear. Mae Vintage carefully assesses each piece, and does its best to disclose all minor flaws that might be associated with each garment within the description of the item. We've included a vintage ranking chart that best describes the condition of each piece. Please contact us info@maevintage.com for any additional photographs or information, we are happy to provide this. As we are a small business we appreciate any questions being asked prior to ordering where possible. - Bust/Chest: Armpit to armpit Waist: Smallest part of the waist Shoulders: Shoulder seam to shoulder seam Sleeve: Shoulder seam to the cuff of the sleeve Length: Top of neck to hem of item (top of strap on dresses) Inseam: Crotch seam to hem Please note that vintage clothing sizing can vary from contemporary sizing, so we have provided accurate measurements for each garment. All measurements are taken with the garment laid flat, in inches. Please double these measurements if you require the circumference of chest and waist. Any Label sizes are provided as a courtesy as vintage clothing sizes vary from contemporary sizing. - UK Shipping Complimentary shipping is offered on all domestic purchases over £150. Orders are processed within 24-48 hours, excluding weekends and major holidays. £15 UK Express next day delivery service (Monday to Friday if ordered by 1pm) Each order is issued tracking information which is provided via email once the package is processed and prepared for shipping. Kindly note that Mae Vintage is not responsible for packages lost or stolen. We suggest you purchase insurance and/or opt for signature confirmation on items over £250.. International Shipping £50 Mae Vintage is required to accurately declare the value of all international purchases on the relevant customs forms. Duties and taxes are the responsibility of the customer. Information regarding the amounts and types of duties, along with other customs information, can be accessed through your local post office.


--- [Maison Martin Margiela | A Project] ---
MAISON MARTIN MARGIELA Maison Martin Margiela is a French haute couture house, founded in Paris in 1988 by the Belgian designer Martin Margiela. (1988) The Maison was founded by the Belgian designer Martin Margiela with a single dress code for all staff: the "blouse blanche" uniform, which is adopted as a unifying element of the "creative collective", but also as a hymn to the ancient ateliers of Haute Couture. The Maison's headquarters is entirely painted white and the furniture inside is covered with white cotton sheets. The first women's ready-to-wear collection makes its debut on 23 October. A truly unique visual identity is established in stark contrast to the dominant trends of the time: long and slender silhouettes parade on masked models. Masculine and feminine at the same time, and often tending to the fusion of the two genders, the Maison promotes a cerebral approach to the deconstruction, reinterpretation and redefinition of the silhouettes of men's and women's ready-to-wear. Each garment is marked with a completely white label, secured with four stitches, which can be easily cut or removed to make it anonymous. Unique dresses created on the basis of recycled and deconstructed garments in the Maison's Parisian ateliers burst into the women's collections and are labeled "Artisanal". (1994) The "Barbie" Fall-Winter 1994 collection introduces the concept of "Replica" by reproducing and enlarging the clothes of the dolls to adapt them to the human figure. Since 1994, clothes and accessories collected around the world continue to be reproduced and integrated into seasonal collections as part of the "Replica" concept. The AIDS charity t-shirt was created with the words: "THERE IS MORE ACTION TO BE DONE TO FIGHT AIDS THAN TO WEAR THIS T-SHIRT BUT IT'S A GOOD START" (There is still much more to do to fight the 'Aids besides wearing this t-shirt, but it's still a good start). A percentage of the sales went to the French association "AIDES". (1997) A new one has been added to the emblematic white label of the Maison: a label with numbers written in black ranging from 0 to 23, in which the circled digit indicates the line to which the garment belongs. Launch of Line 6, hereinafter referred to as MM6 - Contemporary Line. MM6 approaches feminine and casual codes in a completely original way through contemporary cuts and prints that are found in the women's clothing, footwear, accessories and leather goods collections. A single horizontal stitch, visible from the outside of the garment, secures the MM6 label to the garment. (1998) Line 10 - Men's Collection makes its debut with the 1999 Spring-Summer season. Venerable silhouettes manifest themselves through the Maison's iconoclastic vision: deconstruction and sartorial technique reign supreme. Line 14 - Men's Wardrobe completes Line 10 with classic and functional garments. The iconic "Tabi" shoe, inspired by traditional Japanese footwear, emerges from a boot with separate big toe and cylindrical heel. Over the years, the "Tabi" model has been reinterpreted in a wide range of colors, finishes, shapes and sizes. Called "Collection Plate", the Spring-Summer 1998 women's collection explores geometry and shapes through careful tailoring and ingenious closures, which allow each garment to open and flatten completely when not worn. (2000) The first Maison Margiela boutique opens in Tokyo, in the Ebisu district. The boutique is located in a former industrial plant, where the control units and control systems are preserved as design elements. The whitewashed walls blend with the furniture covered in white cotton and the trompe l'oeil wallpaper, evoking the avant-garde visual identity of the Maison's headquarters and showrooms. The "Oversize Collection", made up of dresses with enlarged and exaggerated dimensions, is presented for the Fall-Winter 2000 season. Each garment is modeled on an Italian size 78 and maintains the same large proportions even when worn by smaller bodies. (2002) Le prime boutique europee della Maison aprono a Bruxelles e a Parigi. Ognuna di queste boutique celebra la peculiare architettura e la storia degli spazi originali, armonizzando i decori interni secondo i codici di Maison Margiela. Maison Margiela accoglie Renzo Rosso, presidente di OTB, come azionista maggioritario. (2004) Maison Margiela moves to its current headquarters at 163 rue Saint Maur, in the 11th arrondissement of Paris. Dating back to the 16th century, the building served as a convent for nearly a century before being transformed into an industrial design school. The white and disconnected walls, marked by time, and the school blackboards, still hanging in various rooms, have been preserved. The meticulous restoration work honored the history of the building, while at the same time managing to adapt the interiors to the visual universe of the Maison. (2005) Maison Margiela is given carte blanche by ANDAM (the French National Association for the Development of the Art of Fashion) to exhibit its "Artisanal" creations and accessories in the windows of the French Ministry of Culture and Communication at the Palais Royal in Paris. Across the Atlantic, Maison Margiela opens its first boutique in New York, in Manhattan's West Village. Originally conceived as a temporary shop, a space "under construction" adorned with scaffolding and boxes still sealed, the shop was redesigned in 2016 to externalize the luxurious and avant-garde image of the Maison. (2006) Maison Margiela becomes a corresponding member of the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture and presents its first "Artisanal" collection (called Line 0) for Spring-Summer 2006. All "Artisanal" garments are handcrafted in the Maison's Parisian ateliers using a range of reworked, antique, found or rough vintage materials. In 2012, Maison Margiela's "Artisanal" collection received the official title of "Haute Couture" from the Fédération Française de la Couture. Maison Margiela is invited as one of the first fashion creators to Pitti Immagine Uomo, the well-known men's fashion exhibition held every two years in Florence. (2007) Line 8 - Eyewear Collection is launched with the "Incognito" model: a single flat lens that covers the front and sides of the face with a black band, hiding the identity of the wearer. (2008) On the occasion of Maison Margiela's 20th anniversary, an exhibition is organized at the Antwerp Museum of Fashion (MoMu): a dive into the themes and codes of the Maison to explore 20 years of collections, fashion shows, interior design and even its politics in terms of communication. The exhibition will subsequently be transferred to Somerset House in London and to the Haus der Kunst in Munich. To celebrate its 20th anniversary, the Maison is organizing a fashion show for the Spring-Summer 2009 season. To pay homage to the history of the Maison, the collection is pervaded with "re-edition" garments, reinterpreted from previous collections. Line 12 - High Jewelery Collection makes its debut with a series of oversized interpretations of classic creations, including hypertrophic necklaces and XXXL size chevalier rings. (2009) Publication of the retrospective book of the Maison, published by Rizzoli. (2010) The Maison's first perfume, baptized (untitled), inaugurates Line 3 - Fragrance Collection. (untitled) reveals the anonymous character of Maison Margiela through a mix of fresh green notes, enclosed in a raw glass apothecary vial dipped in white paint. (2011) Maison Margiela is commissioned to redesign the La Maison Champs-Elysées hotel in Paris. In a combination of day and night, public spaces and private spaces, the classic Haussmannian architecture is reinterpreted with the filter of the Maison's surrealist vision. This restyling project marked the launch of Line 13 - Objects & Publications, the collection of interior design objects by Maison Margiela. (2012) The concept of "Replica" extends from the reproduction of garments to that of aromas with the launch of the "Replica" fragrance collection. Each perfume, marked by origin and period, evokes images and memories that draw on the collective unconscious and our personal memories. Maison Margiela collaborates with H&M to create a collection consisting of "re-edition" garments taken from the Maison's archives. This collaboration embodies the main codes of the Maison, from oversized dimensions to anonymity, distorting traditional shapes, volumes and tailoring techniques. (2014) Maison Margiela appoints John Galliano as Creative Director, marking the beginning of a new era in the history of the Maison. (2015) Maison Margiela's first "Artisanal" collection designed by John Galliano is presented in London. The clothes are disassembled and then reborn in an unexpected way, emanating a new unusual beauty through ingenious tailoring and a myriad of new details. The white muslin canvases of each look parade on the catwalk to close the exhibition. (2016) The 5AC bag is launched as part of Line 11. Its name derives from the French word "sac", which means "bag", encoded using the leet language. The cover of the 5AC can be pulled out to exhibit a distinctive and totally anonymous element. (2020) In Maison Margiela's recent haute couture show in January 2020, which decoded society's heritage, with a deconstruction of the bourgeoisie, Galliano returned to the show again, breaking the leitmotifs of upcycling and renewal to show that cultural responsibility is something that must continue to be provoked.


--- [Margiela Runway History - Fall 1994] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC
