=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[D. B. Hardeman Prize - Wikipedia]
The D. B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, journalism, or political science. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D._B._Hardeman_Prize

[Sinclair, Barbara 1940- (Barbara Sinclair Deckard, Barbara Louise Sinclair) | Encyclopedia.com]
Sinclair's 1989 publication The Transformation of the U.S. Senate won both the Richard F. Fenno Prize from the American Political Science Association and the D.B. Hardeman Prize from the Lyndon B. Johnson Foundation. Sinclair published Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking: The U.S. House of Representatives in the Postreform Era in 1995.
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/arts/educational-magazines/sinclair-barbara-1940-barbara-sinclair-deckard-barbara-louise-sinclair

[D. B. Hardeman Prize - LBJ Foundation | LBJ Presidential Library]
The D.B. Hardeman Prize is awarded for the best book on the U.S. Congress, from the fields of biography, history, journalism, and political science. Mr. Hardeman, a dedicated student of and avid collector of books about the Congress, was a long-time assistant to legendary Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn of Texas. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to ...
URL: https://www.lbjlibrary.org/foundation/initiatives/hardeman-prize

[Barbara Sinclair, educator, political scientist | World Biographical ...]
Barbara Sinclair, Political scientist, educator. Recipient D.B. Hardeman prize Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation, 1990.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/barbara.sinclair/3335776

[D. B. Hardeman Prize | 1992 | Awards and Honors | LibraryThing]
D. B. Hardeman Prize 1992 Given by Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation 1 Work 12 Books he D.B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, show more Years: All, 2021 (1), 2020 (1), 2019 (1), 2018 (1) (show ...
URL: https://www.librarything.com/award/4082.0.0.1992/D-B-Hardeman-Prize-1992


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [D. B. Hardeman Prize - Wikipedia] ---
The D. B. Hardeman Prize is a cash prize awarded annually by the Lyndon Baines Johnson Foundation for the best book that furthers the study of the U.S. Congress in the fields of biography, history, journalism, or political science. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to scholarship, (2) contribution to the public's understanding of Congress, (3) literary craftsmanship, (4) originality, and (5) depth of research. Members of the national selection committee are: Senator Tom Daschle; Lee Hamilton, Director of The Center on Congress; Thomas Mann of The Brookings Institution; Leslie Sanchez of Impacto Group; and Nancy Beck Young of The University of Houston.
D. Barnard Hardeman, Jr. (1914–1981) was a politician, political scholar, journalist and teacher. He graduated from the University of Texas and the University of Texas Law School and served in the U.S. Army during World War II. Hardeman served in the 52nd and 54th Legislatures representing Grayson and Collin counties in the Texas House of Representatives.  Between 1958 and 1961, he worked as an assistant to Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House, and was Rayburn's official biographer.  An avid bibliophile whose book collection numbered more than ten thousand volumes, Hardeman bequeathed his collection of American biographies and political history to the LBJ Presidential Library in Austin, Texas.




--- [Sinclair, Barbara 1940- (Barbara Sinclair Deckard, Barbara Louise Sinclair) | Encyclopedia.com] ---
Sinclair, Barbara 1940- (Barbara Sinclair Deckard, Barbara Louise Sinclair) Sinclair, Barbara 1940- (Barbara Sinclair Deckard, Barbara Louise Sinclair) PERSONAL: Born November 21, 1940. Education: Rice University, B.A., 1962; University of Rochester, Ph.D., 1970. ADDRESSES: Office—Political Science Department, University of California, Los Angeles, 4289 Bunche Hall, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1472. E-mail—[email protected]. CAREER: Academic and political scientist. University of California, Riverside, assistant professor, then associate professor, then professor, 1970-96; University of California, Los Angeles, Marvin Hoffenberg Professor of American Politics, 1996—, then professor emeritus. Fellow, American Political Science Association, 1978-79; president's chair, University of California, 1990-92, 1993-96. MEMBER: American Political Science Association (vice president, 1987-88), Western Political Science Association (president, 1992-93), Southern Political Science Association, International Political Science Association. AWARDS, HONORS: Richard F. Fenno Prize, American Political Science Association, for The Transformation of the U.S. Senate; D.B. Hardeman Prize, Lyndon B. Johnson Foundation, 1990, for The Transformation of the U.S. Senate. WRITINGS: (As Barbara Sinclair Deckard) The Women's Movement, Political, Socioeconomic, and Psychological Issues, Harper & Row (New York, NY), 1975, 3rd edition, 1983. Congressional Realignment, 1925-1978, University of Texas Press (Austin, TX), 1982. Majority Leadership in the U.S. House, Johns Hopkins University Press (Baltimore, MD), 1983. The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, Johns Hopkins University Press (Baltimore, MD), 1989. Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking: The U.S. House of Representatives in the Postreform Era, Johns Hopkins University Press (Baltimore, MD), 1995. Unorthodox Lawmaking: New Legislative Processes in the U.S. Congress, CQ Press (Washington, DC), 1997, 3rd edition, 2007. Party Wars: Polarization and the Politics of National Policy Making, University of Oklahoma Press (Norman, OK), 2006. SIDELIGHTS: Barbara Sinclair is an American academic and political scientist. Born on November 21, 1940, she started her higher education studies at Rice University, earning a bachelor of arts degree in 1962. Sinclair completed her graduate studies at the University of Rochester, completing a Ph.D. in 1970. Sinclair began lecturing at the University of California, Riverside, that same year, rising through the professorial ranks, until becoming a full professor of political science. From 1978 to 1979 she served as a fellow of the American Political Science Association. Sinclair also served two terms holding the president's chair of the University of California system, the first from 1990 to 1992, and the second from 1993 to 1996. In 1996 she moved to the University of California, Los Angeles, and began serving as the Marvin Hoffenberg Professor of American Politics. Nearly a decade later, she became a professor emeritus within the political science department. Sinclair is a member of a number of professional and academic organizations, including the Southern Political Science Association and the International Political Science Association. From 1987 to 1988 she served as vice president of the American Political Science Association. Additionally, she served as president of the Western Political Science Association from 1992 to 1993. Sinclair's 1989 publication The Transformation of the U.S. Senate won both the Richard F. Fenno Prize from the American Political Science Association and the D.B. Hardeman Prize from the Lyndon B. Johnson Foundation. Sinclair published Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking: The U.S. House of Representatives in the Postreform Era in 1995. The book looks at the ways activist party leadership in Congress forms and operates. Incorporating theories and showing the evolution through the experimental phases of leadership activities, the book also evaluates the impact party leadership makes on successfully winning legislative successes. Bruce I. Oppenheimer, writing in the American Political Science Review, observed: "I would be remiss in commenting on this otherwise outstanding work if I did not mention two reservations"; since the author gives individual mention for leadership initiatives, "it strikes me as odd that Richard Bolling's name is only mentioned once and then not in regard to the changes in leadership powers." "Second, Sinclair deals all too briefly with the shortcomings of House majority-party leadership in the post-reform era." Nevertheless, Oppenheimer concluded that "this book is a most remarkable undertaking. It represents a scholarly research effort that has stretched over nearly two decades. It has involved the getting and maintaining an unusual level of access to the workings of Democratic Party leadership and yet an ability to remain sufficiently distant to develop the broader perspective. The end result is clearly a most important—if not the most important—book on party leadership and Congress." Joseph Cooper, writing in the Political Science Quarterly, summarized that "the appropriate question to ask is not whether the author made the correct strategic choices, but whether the results justify the choices. Even if implicit, choice is unavoidable and necessarily limiting. In this case the answer is a clear and emphatic yes. Whatever the costs, the benefits are immense. Barbara Sinclair's detailed picture and insightful analysis of change and practice in leadership behavior will serve as a classic study of the post reform House for all present and future students of Congress." In 1997 Sinclair published Unorthodox Lawmaking: New Legislative Processes in the U.S. Congress, whose third edition was released in 2007. This book analyzes the changes and the reasons why the way Congressional lawmakers work in the manner that they do, which Sinclair has shown to be more complex than in the past. In this she covers topics and legislative issues, including health care, energy policies, tax-cutting agendas, and the style that the majority party rules of the legislative body. A contributor to Reference & Research Book News noted that the book has the purpose of "closely examining changes in the way the elected make law." Colton C. Campbell, writing in the Political Science Quarterly, stated: "That Sinclair writes such an ambitious work is a tribute to her understanding of Congress and its elaborate maze of subtleties." Campbell continued, noting that "this sophisticated and insightful book should be on the shelves of specialists and nonspecialists interested in understanding how the congressional process really works." Sinclair published Party Wars: Polarization and the Politics of National Policy Making in 2006. This book takes into account Sinclair's previous publications and combining their insight to analyze the polarization of U.S. society and the increased level of partisanship. Nolan McCarty, reviewing the book in the Political Science Quarterly, called Sinclair's prescriptions "overly cautious," adding that "after persuasively arguing that polarization and partisanship are phenomena whose origins and extent stretch well beyond the halls of Congress, most of her proposals focus on rather narrow technical reforms of the legislative process." McCarty concluded that "these shortcomings, however, do little to detract from what is certain to be an important contribution to our understanding of contemporary American politics." BIOGRAPHICAL AND CRITICAL SOURCES: PERIODICALS American Political Science Review, September 1, 1990, Eric M. Uslaner, review of The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, p. 1016; December 1, 1995, Bruce I. Oppenheimer, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking: The U.S. House of Representatives in the Postreform Era, p. 1037. Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, July, 1990, James R. Kerr, review of The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, p. 199. Choice: Current Reviews for Academic Libraries, November 1, 1995, W.K. Hall, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking, p. 544; November 1, 1997, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking: New Legislative Processes in the U.S. Congress, p. 567; December 1, 2006, N.W. Polsby, review of Party Wars: Polarization and the Politics of National Policy Making, p. 720. Congress & the Presidency, fall, 1995, Burdett Loomis, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking, p. 193; fall, 1997, Dena Levy, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking, p. 235. Journal of American History, September 1, 1983, review of Congressional Realignment, 1925-1978, p. 452. Journal of Politics, November 1, 1990, Fred R. Harris, review of The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, p. 1261; May 1, 1996, Daniel J. Palazollo, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking, p. 573. Political Science Quarterly, fall, 1990, Joseph Cooper, review of The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, p. 488; winter, 1995, Joseph Cooper, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking, p. 633; spring, 1998, Colton C. Campbell, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking, p. 136; spring, 2007, Nolan McCarty, review of Party Wars, p. 149. Political Studies, December 1, 1996, John Dumbrell, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking, p. 1002. Prairie Schooner, winter, 1995, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking, p. 633; spring, 1998, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking, p. 136. Presidential Studies Quarterly, spring, 1991, Christine Day, review of The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, p. 410. Reference & Research Book News, September 1, 1995, review of Legislators, Leaders, and Lawmaking, p. 40; November 1, 1997, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking, p. 117; August 1, 2007, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking. Social Science Journal, January 1, 2000, Colton C. Campbell, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking, p. 151. Social Science Quarterly, September 1, 1998, Barry Tadlock, review of Unorthodox Lawmaking, p. 686. ONLINE University of California, Los Angeles, Political Science Department Web site,http://www.polisci.ucla.edu/ (August 6, 2008), author profile. University of Oklahoma Web site,http://www.ou.edu/ (August 6, 2008), author profile.


--- [D. B. Hardeman Prize - LBJ Foundation | LBJ Presidential Library] ---
About the Prize The D.B. Hardeman Prize is awarded for the best book on the U.S. Congress, from the fields of biography, history, journalism, and political science. Mr. Hardeman, a dedicated student of and avid collector of books about the Congress, was a long-time assistant to legendary Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn of Texas. Submissions are judged on the basis of five criteria: (1) contribution to scholarship, (2) contribution to the public's understanding of Congress, (3) literary craftsmanship, (4) originality, and (5) depth of research. The members of the national selection committee include: Senator Tom Daschle; Lee Hamilton, director of The Center on Congress; Thomas Mann of The Brookings Institution; Leslie Sanchez of Impacto Group; Clay Smith of Kirkus Media; Jeremi Suri of The University of Texas at Austin; and Jason Casellas and Nancy Beck Young of The University of Houston. Previous winners include Robert Caro, David Oshinsky, and Frances Lee. If you are interested in submitting a title for consideration for the next Hardeman Prize, please contact Samantha Stone, Chief Operating Officer, at samantha@lbjfoundation.org or call (512) 721-0263. Meet the 2021 Prize Recipient The LBJ Foundation's 32nd D.B. Hardeman Prize winner for the best book on the U.S. Congress is "Southern Nation: Congress and White Supremacy after Reconstruction” by David A. Bateman, Ira Katznelson, and John S. Lapinski. Southern Nation examines how southern members of Congress shaped national public policy and American institutions from Reconstruction to the New Deal—and along the way remade the region and the nation in their own image. The presentation was hosted virtually by the LBJ School of Public Affairs' Washington Center on Thursday, May 27, 2021. The event featured a conversation moderated by Peniel Joseph of the LBJ School of Public Affairs with Drs. Bateman, Katznelson, and Lapinski. Recipients of the D. B. Hardeman Prize 1980 Richard F. Fenno, Jr. Home Style: House Members in Their Districts, Little, Brown and Company 1982 Allen Schick Congress and Money: Budgeting, Spending and Taxing, The Urban Institute 1984 James L. Sundquist The Decline and Resurgence of Congress, Brookings Institution Press 1986 David M. Oshinsky A Conspiracy So Immense: The World of Joe McCarthy, The Free Press 1988 Paul Light Artful Work: The Politics of Social Security Reform, Random House 1990 Christopher H. Foreman, Jr. Signals From the Hill: Congressional Oversight and the Challenge of Social Regulation, Yale University Press 1992 Barbara Sinclair The Transformation of the U.S. Senate, The Johns Hopkins University Press 1994 Gilbert C. Fite Richard B. Russell, Jr., Senator From Georgia, The University of North Carolina Press 1995 Carol M. Swain Black Faces, Black Interests: The Representation of African Americans in Congress, Harvard University Press 1995 John Jacobs A Rage for Justice: The Passion and Politics of Phillip Burton, University of California Press 1996 William Lee Miller Arguing About Slavery: The Great Battle in the United States Congress, Alfred A. Knopf 1997 Robert V. Remini Daniel Webster: The Man and His Time, W.W. Norton and Company 1998 Julian E. Zelizer Taxing America: Wilbur D. Mills, Congress, and the State, 1945-1975, Cambridge University Press 1999 Frances E. Lee and Bruce I. Oppenheimer Sizing Up the Senate: The Unequal Consequences of Equal Representation, The University of Chicago Press 2000 Nancy Beck Young Wright Patman: Populism, Liberalism, & the American Dream, Southern Methodist University Press 2001 John Aloysius Farrell Tip O'Neill and the Democratic Century, Little, Brown and Company 2002 Robert Caro The Years of Lyndon Johnson: Master of the Senate, Random House 2003 Don Oberdorfer Senator Mansfield: The Extraordinary Life of a Great American Statesman and Diplomat,Smithsonian Books 2004 Michael Ybarra Washington Gone Crazy: Senator Pat McCarran and the Great American Communist Hunt, Steerforth Press 2005 David M. Barrett The CIA and Congress: The Untold Story from Truman to Kennedy, University Press of Kansas 2006 Robert David Johnson Congress and the Cold War, Cambridge University Press 2007 William G. Howell and Jon C. Pevehouse While Dangers Gather: Congressional Checks on Presidential War Powers, Princeton University Press 2008 Keith Finley Delaying the Dream: Southern Senators and the Fight against Civil Rights, 1938-1965, Louisiana State University Press 2009 Frances E. Lee Beyond Ideology: Politics, Principles, and Partisanship in the U.S. Senate, The University of Chicago Press 25th Douglas L. Kriner After the Rubicon: Congress, Presidents, and the Politics of Waging War, The University of Chicago Press 26th Eric S. Heberlig and Bruce A. Larson Congressional Parties, Institutional Ambition, and the Financing of Majority Control, The University of Michigan Press 27th Neil MacNeil and Richard A. Baker The American Senate: An Insider’s Guide, Oxford University Press 28th Dr. Rebecca U. Thorpe The American Warfare State: The Domestic Politics of Military Spending, The University of Chicago Press 29th Julian E. Zelizer The Fierce Urgency of Now: Lyndon Johnson, Congress, and the Battle for the Great Society 30th Gergus M. Bordewich The First Congress: How James Madison, George Washington, and a Group of Extraordinary Men Invented the Government 31st Dr. Ruth Bloch Rubin Bulding the Bloc: Intraparty Organization in the U.S. Congress


--- [Barbara Sinclair, educator, political scientist | World Biographical ...] ---
No content


--- [D. B. Hardeman Prize | 1992 | Awards and Honors | LibraryThing] ---
No content
