=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ashardalon - Forgotten Realms Wiki]
Ashardalon was a powerful red dragon who was mentioned in songs throughout the multiverse. He was known for his depredations and unorthodox methods to extend his own life.[1] Although he later achieved the status of greatwyrm[2], he remained relentless in his pursuit of godhood.[4] An extremely old red dragon, Ashardalon had an appearance that diverged somewhat from usual ancient dragons of ...
URL: https://forgottenrealms.fandom.com/wiki/Ashardalon

[Tome of Dragon Lore - Ashardalon - The Xentis Archives]
Tome of Dragon Lore - Ashardalon Found in the "Dragon Library" within the Sunless Citadel. Abstract After suffering a mortal wound, Ashardalon attempted to extend his life by binding a balor called Ammet to his chest in order to function as a second heart. However, his injuries were too extensive for the balor's power to keep Ashardalon alive. He then moved to a domain in the Astral Plane ...
URL: https://scotttomaszewski.github.io/xentis-archives/Campaigns/Sunless%20Citadel/Tome%20of%20Dragon%20Lore%20-%20Ashardalon/

[Lore of the Great Wyrms — Rime of the Frostmaiden :: A book ...]
Ashardalon’s new lair is a mysterious domain in the Astral Sea called the Bastion of Unborn Souls. He has ensconced himself in the centre of the Bastion, bathed in a stream of raw soulstuff to keep his faltering life steady.
URL: https://dnd.galumphing.net/lore-of-the-great-wyrms.html

[The Tale of Ashardalon and the Vampire Gulthias – Scholars ...]
Feb 21, 2018 · Bruce Cordell introduced the legendary dragon in his adventure The Sunless Citadel, published for 3e in 2000. The quest launched an adventure path spanning eight parts, culminating in the Bastion of Broken Souls where Ashardalon makes his final stand in the Positive Plane.
URL: https://scholarsandserpents.wordpress.com/2018/02/21/ashardalon-and-the-vampire-gulthias/

[The Wrath of Ashardalon | Wiki | BoardGameGeek]
Meanwhile, Ashardalon attempted to extend his life by binding a demon called Ammet to his chest as a second heart. However, his injuries were too extensive for the balor's power to keep Ashardalon alive. He then moved to a domain in the Astral Plane known as the Bastion of Unborn Souls and established his lair there.
URL: https://boardgamegeek.com/wiki/page/thing:408052


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ashardalon - Forgotten Realms Wiki] ---
Ashardalon was a powerful red dragon who was mentioned in songs throughout the multiverse. He was known for his depredations and unorthodox methods to extend his own life.[1] He later became a greatwyrm.[2] Description[] An extremely old red dragon, Ashardalon had an appearance that diverged somewhat from usual ancient dragons of his kind. He possessed unusual demonic features and a scar on his chest in the shape of an enormous winged humanoid.[1] Personality[] Ashardalon was regarded as a self-important dragon with an almost desperate attachment to his own life. He was willing to go through whatever means necessary to prevent his own death.[1] History[] After suffering a mortal wound, Ashardalon attempted to extend his life by binding a balor called Ammet to his chest in order to function as a second heart. However, his injuries were too extensive for the balor's power to keep Ashardalon alive. He then moved to a domain in the Astral Plane known as the Bastion of Unborn Souls and established his lair there. He was kept alive thanks to the timeless nature of the Astral Plane and the unusual flow of energy that permeated the Bastion.[1] Rumors & Legends[] Although Ashardalon had no known presence on Toril, tales of his fortress on another world reached as far as the Yawning Portal tavern in Waterdeep.[4] Appendix[] Appearances[] - Adventures - Referenced only - Tales from the Yawning Portal Gallery[] References[] - ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Bruce R. Cordell, et al. (November 2008). Draconomicon: Chromatic Dragons. Edited by Michele Carter, et al. (Wizards of the Coast), pp. 232–233. ISBN 978-0-7869-4980-9. - ↑ 2.0 2.1 James Wyatt (October 2021). Fizban's Treasury of Dragons. Edited by Judy Bauer, et al. (Wizards of the Coast), p. 7. ISBN 978-0-7869-6729-2. - ↑ Bruce R. Cordell (March 2002). Bastion of Broken Souls. Edited by Dale Donovan. (Wizards of the Coast), p. 40. ISBN 978-0786926565. - ↑ Bart Carroll (2017-04-28). Fiction: Sunless Citadel (Web). In John Houlihan, Bart Carroll eds. Dragon+ #13. Wizards of the Coast. Retrieved on 2022-10-08.


--- [Tome of Dragon Lore - Ashardalon - The Xentis Archives] ---
Tome of Dragon Lore - Ashardalon¶ Found in the "Dragon Library" within the Sunless Citadel. Abstract¶ After suffering a mortal wound, Ashardalon attempted to extend his life by binding a balor called Ammet to his chest in order to function as a second heart. However, his injuries were too extensive for the balor's power to keep Ashardalon alive. He then moved to a domain in the Astral Plane known as the Bastion of Unborn Souls and established his lair there. He was kept alive thanks to the timeless nature of the Astral Plane and the unusual flow of energy that permeated the Bastion Although Ashardalon has no known presence on Toril, the tome tells tales of his fortress on another world...


--- [Lore of the Great Wyrms — Rime of the Frostmaiden :: A book ...] ---
Rime of the Frostmaiden Lore of the Great Wyrms Octavian is readingThe Wyrms Ashardalon, the Undying A traditional song called The Coming of Ashardalon describes the depredations of this red dragon of immense power and self-importance. Ashardalon is well known for his tenacious clasp on life, no matter his injuries and setbacks. When he was struck a mortal blow, the dragon bound a demon into his breast as a second heart. But when that too threatened to fail him, Ashardalon left the world to find the sustenance he required to live forever. Dread Ashardalon Ashardalon resembles an ancient red dragon in its prime, but certain odd features stand out. He has a demonic visage, and on his chest is a gruesome scar in the shape of a large winged humanoid — a Balor. The dragon’s eyes are twin beams of burning fire, and tiny bolts of lightning constantly play between his claws and fangs. Ashardalon was a creature of great fury and power even before he achieved his legendary status or gathered a cult following. Ashardalon’s rampages brought sorrow and misery to the land. The red dragon was worshiped by a cult that built a citadel for the great wyrm to serve as his lair. The cult’s zealous leader, Gulthias, served as the intermediary between Ashardalon and his delusional followers. At least a century prior to the wound that ultimately paved the way for his demonic heart, Ashardalon and his red dragon mate hunted a lush green land called the Golden Plain. The Golden Plain was ruled by a human king who dwelt in a many-towered fortress. As Ashardalon grew more reckless with his power, he came into direct conflict with the kingdom and its king. Thinking to show the dragon a monarch’s true might, the king sent a secret force of his knights to slay Ashardalon’s mate. Upon learning of his mate’s death, Ashardalon went on a rampage so fierce and so extended that the land itself finally buckled, pulling the cultist’s fortress beneath the ground. The once-lush region was renamed the Ashen Plain, and the sunken fortress was rechristened the Sunless Citadel. During his reign of destruction Ashardalon slew a cult of druids affiliated with the Church of the Elements, save for Dydd the Wise who manged to escape. To protect future generations from such devastation, Dydd magically infused the druids’ stonehenge with spells, including one she used to transform wild animals into humans. “Dydd’s people” eventually married each other and gave birth to a new generation of inhabitants in the region. Once powerful enough, Dydd and her children hunted and challenged Ashardalon, and Dydd found her revenge by carving Ashardalon’s heart out of his chest, believing it destroyed mortally and mystically. The Cult of Ashardalon Remnants of the cult survived this disaster, and it reconstituted itself around a relic of its dragon liege: Ashardalon’s heart. Gulthias sensed a “residual potency” in Ashardalon’s Heart and with a magic born of equal parts skill, faith, and dark desperation, rekindled the heart — but not to life. At the exact moment when Ashardalon’s Heart beat, Gulthias and the cultists took their own lives. The suicide “enlivened” the heart, though other tales suggest mysterious extra-planar Dark Powers were responsible for suffusing the heart with negative energy. Gulthias’ proximity to the Heart during the ritual raised him as a vampire. Gulthias new undead power was privileged with a certain link to the zombified Heart; he could raise cultists to unlife and hold sway over them. Many scholars believe Gulthias deluded himself into believing that the Heart retained some life, when in fact he was the one who gave it “life” by imbuing it with necrotic energy, while guided by those Dark Powers. The ritual infused Ashardalon’s Heart with the energy of the Shadowfell and transformed it, reborn in undead darkness, into the centre of faith and necromantic power for the cult. The cultists hoped to resummon Ashardalon, but the dragon never answered their call. The Fate of Gulthias After Ashardalon’s continued absence led the cult to dwindle into insignificance, Gulthias returned a final time to the Sunless Citadel. Scholars disagree as to why Gulthias returned. Most believe he was searching for an artifact he believed would summon Ashardalon. Others have simpler reasoning: Gulthias sought only to recover magical lore buried in its depths. Or maybe he thought the Citadel’s magic – which preserved an undead Elf condemned to spend unlife as a troll – held necrotic energy strong enough to empower the Heart. Gulthias never succeeded in resummoning his Lord, and he was eventually slain in the Twilight Grove that lay beneath the ruined citadel. A unnamed adventurer staked the vampire Gulthias to the ground, which transformed him into a skeletal tree. Gulthias’s necromancy extended beyond his death, and so-called ‘Gulthias Trees’ have since spread to many realms, from Faerûn to Shadowfell realms such as Barovia. The Sunless Citadel itself is long since lost. Ashardalon the Undying Such was Ashardalon’s power that he was not killed by Dydd’s revenge, but the blow received was so grievous that his heart was damaged beyond repair. The dragon, calling on all his craft and knowledge of ancient rituals, managed to survive long enough to replace his heart with a magically bound demon, a Balor: Ammet the Eater of Souls. But so terrible was Ashardalon’s wound that even Ammet’s enchanted labour began to fail the dragon’s body. Ashardalon sought instead a source of life energy so pure that nothing could ever again threaten to kill him. Ashardalon’s new lair is a mysterious domain in the Astral Sea called the Bastion of Unborn Souls. He has ensconced himself in the centre of the Bastion, bathed in a stream of raw soulstuff to keep his faltering life steady. Like a boulder in a stream, the dragon’s body interrupts the flow, which beads across him like water. Creatures who stay within the confines of the Bastion of Unborn Souls do not noticeably age — the raw soulstuff keeps them young and vibrant. If indeed its points of light are preincarnate souls upon which Ashardalon feeds, creatures of the world might be born as soulless husks, shambling vestiges of what they might otherwise be, and open to malign influence. He could conceivably live forever there, though new dragon cults will no doubt rise who seek to summon again the great wyrm Ashardalon. Voaraghamanthar, the Black Death In the heart of the Mere of Dead Men, the vast saltwater swamp that lies along the Sword Coast between Leilon and Waterdeep, dwells the savage black dragon Voaraghamanthar, the “Black Death.” This wyrm is said to have strange powers and avoids other dragons who intrude into the swamp or claim it as part of their domain. Most tales say the Black Death can burst from beneath long-placid swamp waters, read and reason intelligently, and be in two places at once. This latter power is due to the true nature of this dragon: “Voaraghamanthar” is, in fact, two identical twin, adult male, black dragons who pose as one dragon in their dealings with both intruders and allies, the latter of which includes the Cult of the Dragon. Their twin’s name is Waervaerendor, who impishly styles himself “the Rapacious Raider”. The two dragons share an empathic link and work together with unshakable loyalty. Faerûn, however, knows of only one deadly, legendary Wyrm of the Mere: a flitting black ghost of claws and jaws that strikes out of nowhere. The black swamp waters hide the dragons and the rotting bodies of victims they wait to dine upon – or keep prisoner, helpless in the cold muck, for fell purposes. Draconic twins are rare indeed (one typically kills the other in the egg before hatching), but Voaraghamanthar and Waervaerendor share an empathic link that bonds them into an unshakable duo. Together the hatchling twins slew their siblings and fled before their parents could in turn destroy them. After many years of lurking in swamps and moors throughout Faerûn, the Brothers found a “home” they deemed fitting and took the Mere of Dead Men as their domain. The twins have long striven to increase their power by acquiring magic, specifically spells leading to a means of creating loyal, formidable servitor creatures to serve them as warriors, guardians, and drudges. Waervaerendor is more outgoing, preferring to acquire information face-to-face, while Voaraghamanthar prefers to study and deduce from dusty tomes and ancient ruins. Like most dragons beyond youth, thoughts of their own deaths weigh ever more heavily on the brothers, and they’ve begun – earlier in life than many wyrms – to seek immortality energetically. They share the fear that the death of one of them might render the other insane through their empathic link. Both brothers see undeath (dracolichdom) as a fool’s road, doomed to fall shy of immortality and unworthy of consideration. Nevertheless, when approached by the Dragon Cult, they forged an alliance in hopes of gaining lore amid the details of dracolichdom that might provide a means of prolonging their lives and preserving their (living, vigorous) bodies. Cultists are also “useful tools” to spy and work for the twins outside the Mere. They still pretend to be tempted by dracolichdom but are completely insincere about the alliance. The brothers resent intrusions into their affairs or domain. When they let self-control slip, they fight with unbridled fury. While cunning and amoral, they’re never needlessly cruel or destructive. They’ve little interest in displays of power or acquiring territory, considering discretion the better part of valour and their lives more important than victory.


--- [The Tale of Ashardalon and the Vampire Gulthias – Scholars ...] ---
See the Old Dragon from his throne Sink with enormous ruin down! MASSIVE SPOILERS BELOW WITH AMAZING DETAIL AND INCREDIBLE ANALYSIS HERE WE GO!…. The great red dragon Ashardalon returns in the new D&D board game Wrath of Ashardalon designed by Peter Lee and Bill Slavicsek. Bruce Cordell introduced the legendary dragon in his adventure The Sunless Citadel, published for 3e in 2000. The quest launched an adventure path spanning eight parts, culminating in the Bastion of Broken Souls where Ashardalon makes his final stand in the Positive Plane. A 5e version of The Sunless Citadel was reprinted in Tales from the Yawning Portal (2017) along with other classic D&D quests, including The Forge of Fury, the second part of the Ashardalon adventure path. Because the history of the crimson wyrm’s reign of terror is so epic, I decided to chronicle his tale for you. After all, who wouldn’t want to know more about the world’s most destructive dragon? – (okay, sorry Tiamat) *Note: Abbreviations are found in the bibliography below. The Cult of the Dragon The tale of Ashardalon spans over 1000 years (BBS, 33). Long ago Ashardalon wreaked havoc across the land while nefarious cultists worshiped him as a god. The Cult of Ashardalon erected their central temple in Nightfang Spire, a massive stone edifice stretching 1,600 feet into the air like the tooth of a long forgotten aberration (HNS, 3). The cult’s zealous leader, Gulthias, served as the intermediary between Ashardalon and his delusional followers. Half-dragon monstrosities called the Children of Ashardalon enjoyed substantial power in the Spire due to their (supposed) descent from the great dragon. Some formally joined the cult to get perks for being daddy’s kid, but most left the temple for regions unknown (HNS, 14). Later, Gulthias would experiment on one of Ashardalon’s children, creating a twisted half-dragon flesh golem (HNS, 15). Dydd the Wise and Dyson the Supersonic Ages ago, Ashardalon slew a cult of druids affiliated with the Church of the Elements, save for Dydd the Wise who manged to escape (SS, 2; BBS, 10). Dydd got sweet revenge by carving Ashardalon’s heart out of his chest, destroying it mortally and “mystically,” as Ashardalon himself later tells us (BBS, 30). To protect future generations from such devastation, Dydd magically infused the druids’ stonehenge with spells, including one she used to transform wild animals into humans. “Dydd’s people” eventually married each other and gave birth to a new generation of inhabitants in the region (SS, 2). It’s unclear whether Dydd killed Ashardalon before or after transmogrifying new furry followers, though I suspect after, since it seems she died soon after the time she killed the dragon. Centuries later a Tiefling sorcerer named Dyson used the spells inscribed on the stonehenge to transform animals into faux-human servants to help him prepare a demonic invasion (SS, 2). Dyson’s private papers indicate that behind his plans stood a creature named “The Cathezar” (SS, 27). In Bastion of Broken Souls we learn that The Cathezar is a demon searching for the lost descendants of Dydd. This suggests that Dyson – whether he knew or not – was on a mission to uncover the whereabouts of Dydd’s bloodline. Nightfang Spire After Dydd slew Ashardalon, Gulthias took the dragon’s heart to Nightfang Spire where he was “commanded to make ready for Ashardalon’s return” (HNS, 2). The years went by without a word from Ashardalon. Gulthias had no idea his dragon-god was feasting on unborn souls in the Positive Plane. Naturally, Gulthias worried he would die of old age before Ashardalon rose again. He got the bright idea of turning himself and his followers into undead creatures by committing mass suicide. Good times. Hundreds of years later, a vrock named Rhunad informed a party of adventurers in Nightfang Spire about what happened on that bloodcurdling night (HNS, 13). The cultists went a bit insane after Ashardalon vanished. Gulthias sensed a “residual potency” in Ashardalon’s heart and followed the dragon into death by dabbling in dark rituals (HNS, 14). At the exact moment when Ashardalon’s heart beat, Gulthias and the cultists took their own lives. The suicide “enlivened” the heart, though Rhunad suggests an “enigmatic other-planar agency” was responsible for “supercharging [the heart] with negative energy.” Rhunad goes on to say that Gulthias’ proximity to the heart raised him [as a vampire]. Gulthias was privileged with a certain link to the zombified heart; he could raise cultists to unlife and hold sway over them. Always one for drama, Gulthias made Ashardalon’s heart his coffin, transforming Nightfang Spire into a “mortuary” (HNS, 2). The Heart of Nigthfang Spire adventure hints at what really happened: “With a magic born of equal parts skill, faith, and desperation, Gulthias rekindled the heart, but not to life. Forsaking life himself, he invested a portion of his newfound undead power into the organ. With this catalyst, the heart was preserved, and it now serves as the center of faith and necromantic power for the cult, reborn in undead darkness” (NS, 28). In other words, Gulthias deluded himself into believing that the heart retained some life, when in fact he was the one who gave it “life” by imbuing it with necrotic energy, while guided by some dark power (Ravenloft?). The Sunless Citadel Gulthias then made a journey to the Sunless Citadel, a fortress built in honor of Ashardalon by an Elvish faction of the Cult of the Dragon (SC, 11). A long forgotten cataclysm had rent ground beneath the citadel, hurling it into the chasm and killing the cultists in the process. The citadel now lies at the bottom of the ravine in perennial shade (hence the name). Dark magic cushioned the citadel’s fall, leaving it largely intact for monsters to build their lairs. Sure enough, goblins and kobolds came to roost in the citadel and vie for dominance (SS, 11). The whereabouts of the Sunless Citadel has a few possibilities. References to the god Pelor suggest that the 2000 edition placed the citadel in Greyhawk. In the 5e reprint, several places are offered to the DM. In Greyhawk the citadel is found in “northwestern Bissel, in the foothills west of Thornward” (SC, 9). As for Toril, one can find “the Sunless Citadel…nestled in the foothills just south of Mount Hotenow, northwest of Thundertree near the city of Neverwinter on the Sword Coast in Faerun”. The Yawning Portal adds that when Mount Hotenow destroyed half of Neverwinter it opened the rift underneath the citadel. Why did Gulthias travel to the Sunless Citadel? He may have been searching for an artifact he believed would summon Ashardalon. Perhaps he wanted the book “Treasures of the Fire Giants” found in its depths (SC, 29). Or maybe he thought the magic – which preserved an undead Elf forever condemned to spend his unlife as a troll – held some sort of necrotic power. At any rate, Gulthias likely visited the citadel after it tumbled into the ravine because he was “killed” in it. The Gulthias Tree Gulthias was killed in the Twilight Grove beneath the citadel. A heroic adventurer staked Gulthias to the ground which transformed him into a skeletal tree. The tree bore two kinds of fruit: a red apple with healing properties and an blanche one filled with deadly poison. Every summer solstice the red apple matured and the white one came to fruition in winter (SC, 9). Stories about a the fruit guided a druid named Belak the Outcast to the depths of the Grove. Belak was booted from of his druid circle because he “dared to expand nature’s reach in ways they couldn’t grasp” (SC, 30). Belak was likely dabbling in necromancy. The vampire tree was perfect. Belak persuaded the goblins of the citadel to sell the red apple every summer to the nearby town of Oakhurst. The villagers planted the fruit’s seeds in the hopes of growing it for themselves. Bad move. The seeds sprouted Twig Blights bent on murdering anyone unlucky enough to find themselves lost in the surrounding forest. Belak wanted to colonize the surface with the “children of Gulthias.” What’s more, he stopped selling the fruit to lure adventurers into the Grove where he could strap them to the Gulthias Tree and transform them into mindless slaves. But why would the Gulthias Tree bother with spreading Twig Blights? I think that even as a tree he wanted to build a following of blights and PC slaves. After all, “[h]is goal is the creation of a nation-state under his rule, a theocracy where all must give obeisance to a vanished, long-forgotten dragon named Ashardalon” (HNS, 28). In the final chapter of the The Sunless Citadel, the players kill Belak and destroy the Gulthias Tree, accidentally releasing his dark soul. Perhaps, this was Gulthias’ plan all along; tricking adventurers into destroying his wooden prison. Return to Nightfang Spire Gulthias returned to a Nightfang Spire which had fallen “into a dark sleep centuries long” (HNS, 2). He resumed conducting heinous experiments, and expressed his rejuvenated zeal by inscribing a leafless tree all over Nightfang. But, Gulthias never learned the truth about Ashardalon: “The vampire believes that if he can extend his reach far enough, grow the cult large enough, and make a large enough impact in the world, the spirit of Ashardalon will return from whatever strange plane it has fled to. It’s all about faith. All of Gulthias’s attempts at divining the truth have been unsuccessful. Still, he persists. He thinks it is but a test of faith. And these days, necromancy and faith are indistinguishable to Gulthias” (NS, 25). His ignorance only reaffirmed his faith and led him deeper into the unholy science of life that is not. As for the heart: “The disembodied heart, the size of a small hut, hangs near the ceiling, 45 feet above a narrow catwalk girding the core. The heart burns with cold, black flame, which somehow provides illumination” (NS, 27). Size of a small…hut? kinda breaks the mood. For example: “The children of Tiamat look about the size of a two story bungalow.” In the final battle Gulthias brazenly sports cool dude shades. No wonder the guy lives in a small, undead heart-hut – even Ryan Gosling would have no game with those on. My quick take. As Ashardalon says himself, Dydd destroyed his heart mortally and mystically. No wonder he could never come back; the heart was completely wrecked. But the insane Gulthias wrongly believed the heart retained some potency. Caught in the delusion that his dragon-god would return, Gulthias made a pact with a dark power in exchange for vampiric unlife. This dark extra-planar agent, I believe, came from Ravenloft. Gulthias traveled to Ravenloft where he learned the necrotic arts. The dark masters of Ravenloft also taught him how to transform into a tree were he ever killed in the future. When he returned to Nightfang Spire, he filled the heart with undead energy. YES. There! I connected the Gulthias Tree in the Sunless Citadel to the Gulthias tree in Ravenloft. You are wrong Chris Perkins! 🙂 🙂 :p Getting Bailed Out Where was Ashardalon when Gulthias became undead, took a vacation to the Citadel, came home and bought sick shades? Things get really interesting. Ashardalon left the prime material plane for the Abyss and replaced his heart with an actual balor. YES AN ENTIRE BALOR. The balor was none other than Ammet, the Eater of Souls. But after centuries (it’s always centuries), Ashardalon’s demon-heart began to fail and to stay alive Ashardalon traveled to the Positive Plane and broke into the Bastion of Unborn Souls. Putting Their Heads Together (or not) Now, The Demogorgon, made famous by Stranger Things, has a personality issue. This Demon Prince of the 88th layer of the Abyss has two heads. The head named Aameul would like to saw off the other head, but the problem is such an act of brotherly love would kill them both. Learning about Ashardalon’s hidden lair in the Positive Plane, Aameul came to believe that the dragon’s soul (along with the balor’s) would give him enough energy to stay alive after “removing” his brother-head (BBS, 2; 9). - Power Score’s excellent history of The Demogorgon - Shannon Appelcline’s official history of the demon on WoC’s website Aameul also discovered that a descendant of Dydd can weaken Ashardalon just enough for him to steal the dragon’s power. So he sent his most trusted agent, The Cathezar, to find Dydd’s heir: “The Cathezar is one of Aameul’s best agents. She is a fiend, but is an outcast among both demons and devils— she is half demon and half devil, spawn of a doubly unholy union. The Cathezar utilizes a special magic item called the blood mark, created by Aameul to track down the nearest living blood descendant of Dydd (BBS, 4). It’s my guess that The Cathezar used Dyson for this purpose. The Soul Eating Dragon Meanwhile, Ashardalon was chill’n in the Bastion of Unborn Souls. The Bastion was created out of a concentration of positive energy (BBS, 21). It looks like a massive pulsing, ever-changing crystal snowflake. Inside grow 30 foot trees covered with crystal leaves which ring like bells when rustled. Dazzling pinpoints of clustered lights hanging on the trees are the unborn souls which enter the planes as newly born creatures (BBS, 22). “Ashardalon is an entity of power, possessed of a maturity that few dragons ever achieve. Bending all its powers, its hoard, and several centuries of research toward the goal of preserving its life without recourse to lichdom, Ashardalon determined that it required a new type of diet: preincarnate souls from the Bastion of Unborn Souls. By feeding on such souls, it hoped to extend its life indefinitely. But each preincarnate soul it digests is one more empty mortal shell vomited forth on the Material Plane. It seems that Ashardalon’s hunger is great, and may be accelerating” (BBS, 15). Ashardalon found his way into one of the many “nodes” inside the Bastion. Wraith-like soulstuff pours into the node from the Positive Plane, and flows into the Bastion to feed the unborn souls on the trees. Ashardalon sits under the soul-waterfall to consume it like a brother-in-law using up all the hot water in the shower: “Part of the flow is absorbed directly into Ashardalon, creating a miniature whirlpool of soulstuff around the dragon’s heart scar” (BBS, 30). But Ashardalon became addicted to soulstuff and needed to consume more and more to satisfy his hunger. At the climax of Bastion of Broken Souls, he confesses that he has a problem: “My heart is bad. Bad in every sense you can imagine, but most significantly bad in that, as a transplant, it has slowly failed. My original heart was mortally, mystically, wounded by she I will not . . . cannot name, so I found a replacement: The heart is the demon Ammet, called Eater of Souls. Sadly, Ammet has slowly failed these last several centuries. Had I not finally found and penetrated the Bastion, I might have perished utterly. Now, I must spend all my time at the Center, lest my heart fail completely. I am addicted to raw life force” (BBS, 30). Soul addiction is not only a personal problem; it’s a cosmic one. His feasting created the “soul sickness,” a multi-universal wide cataclysm where bodies are thrust into existence without souls. And the more he eats, the more creatures are born without souls. The Ban and the Totem Why don’t the gods intervene?? An “edict as old as the multiverse” forbids the gods from involving themselves in the affairs of unborn souls in order to preserve their free will (BBS, 6). If a god violates the ban, it will loose its divine status. Of course, one god had to press the button: “The Bastion of Unborn Souls is a font of preincarnate souls, created before there were gods, and existing without any divine influence. The deities attempt, with varying degrees of success, to gain control of a soul once it is incarnated (born) and again in its afterlife, but they have no knowledge or ability to control whence souls truly come. To them, it is a great mystery. And it’s a mystery they are not eager to explore, lest they accidentally invoke the Ban of the Unborn” (BBS, 21). A deity named Desayeus fashioned a totem to break into the Bastion and claim unborn souls for his divine portfolio. He claimed that he merely aspired to be the “protector of the unsullied,” yet at the same time, he was pretty keen on having absolute power over the unborn (BBS, 18). The gods were terrified that Desayeus had implicated them in his schemes (BBS, 13). Within seven hours they banished Desayeus to the vault of Agathion in Pandemonium and broke his totem into three parts. Ashardalon found a piece and used it to enter the Bastion. But he could hide no longer. Finally, after 1000 years of terror over the course of eight modules, the great wyrm would finally meet his end and become a mere board game (but a game you should buy!). The Final Act In Bastion of Broken Souls, the party confronts the loathsome dragon. Ashardalon relishes his apex predator status without remorse for robbing people of existence and threatening the multiverse. Fortunately, one of the PCs is Dydd’s heir and weakens the dragon with a great war cry. The dragon is defeated and geysers of blood spew from his hellish corpse. If that wasn’t enough, Ammet bursts out of the dying dragon, flames rolling around his demonic form, raging for battle. Talk about heart…burn…see what I dydd there? I’m a bastion of inSPIREing puns. Is this the end of Ashardalon? Well, according to Dragon Magic, Ashardalon becomes a Vestige. You can even prestige as a Disciple of Ashardalon (Draconomicon). In Magic Incarnum, the Pentifex Order has it out for Ashardalon’s followers. But for now, Ashardalon is banished to the plane of dragon monopoly (seriously, get the board game!). I almost forgot – in Bastion of Broken Souls there is a kobold named PO!!!….Could it be? Is it really…the one and only MEEPO!!! Thanks for reading. Your comments are much appreciated, especially those involving any corrections I should make. Please support D&D writers and artists by purchasing content on DriveThruRPG, and picking up Tales from The Yawning Portal and the Wrath of Ashardalon board game. Kids, remember, Ashardalon could have EATEN YOUR SOULS!!!!!!!!! PS: I know it’s Steve Tyler, so don’t stop believing me when I say so… Interesting Connections Trees The epic of Ashardalon features all sorts of trees. We have the Gulthias tree, the tree of unborn souls, and a mystical sapling named Semphelon. Notice some cool contrasts here. Gulthias was an undead tree, the Bastion held the trees of life. Belak shepherded the Gulthias Tree because he dabbled in the necrotic arts, while Semphelon preserved duridic lore to protect nature. The trees symbolically weave together images of life and death, hope and despair. This duality is captured in the polarity between the red and white apples. The Demogorgon threatens to overthrow this balance by cutting off one of his heads. Ashardalon tries to cheat death by causing a cosmic catastrophe. He replaces his life force with a demonic entity and feeds his dead chest with the fount of life. All of these extreme measures threaten the multiverse. The adventure series as a whole shows the value of the cosmic balance and the evils which arise when we try to disrupt it for selfish ends. Swords Cool connections between swords run through the adventures. In The Standing Stone we find a sword forged by Durgeddin, who was the muguffin of sorts in the second episode, The Forge of Fury (SS, 16). In addition, the Sunless Citadel has a scroll which reads, “…the remaining few. By order of Durgeddin the Black, we have created a secret dwarven redoubt. None shall find us; however,…” (SC, 23). Perhaps, Durgeddin forged Dydd’s sword as well – ? I should add that later on a party of adventurers come across a Duergar who claims to be a descendant of Ashardalon (Lord of the Iron Fortress). Wouldn’t it be interesting if he was from the bloodline of the Children of Ashardalon in Heart of Nightfang Spire? Pelor The god Pelor appears all over the adventure path. A temple to Pelor is found in The Sunless Citadel and The Speaker in Dreams; a body of a paladin holds Pelor’s Golden Sunburst (SS, 24-25); and the corpse of a half-orc paladin bears the name Orrun-Pelor (BBS, 29). Alternative Accounts According to a Wiki entry, Ashardalon and his mate ravaged the Golden Plain which was ruled by a mighty king. He dispatched his knights to kill Ashardalon and they slew Ashardalon’s mate, provoking the dragon’s great fury. Ashardalon split the earth and threw the king’s fortress into its depths. Lost in the shadows of the deep ravine, the fortress became known as the Sunless Citadel. The once Golden Plain was now reduced to ruin forever to be called the Ashen Plain (SS, 11). “Ashardalon was a creature of great fury and power even before he achieved his legendary status or gathered a cult following. Indeed, at least a century prior to the wound that ultimately paved the way for his demonic heart, he and his red dragon mate hunted a lush green land called the Golden Plain. The Golden Plain was ruled by a human king who dwelt in a many-towered fortress. As Ashardalon grew more reckless with his power, he came into direct conflict with the kingdom and its king. Thinking to show the dragon a monarch’s true might, the king sent a secret force of his knights to slay Ashardalon’s mate. Upon learning of his mate’s death, Ashardalon went on a rampage so fierce and so extended that the land itself finally buckled, pulling the king’s fortress beneath the ground. The once-lush region was renamed the Ashen Plain, and the fortress was rechristened the Sunless Citadel. In this sunken castle, Ashardalon’s first followers came to revere him.” http://dragons.wikia.com/wiki/Red_Dragon_(Dungeons_%26_Dragons) Hmmm Dragon #365: “Few can ignore the legacy of the mighty red dragon Ashardalon. Ancient even by the standards of dragonkind, he was a force for evil in the world—his ferocity and greed was unmatched by any of his kin. Even when the great druid Dydd put down the beast, ending his reign of terror, Ashardalon rose from the ashes of his grave once more, bolstered by his wickedness and by fell pacts made with dread abominations. Although we can rest easy in the knowledge that the menace posed by this beast is no more (or so we hope), Ashardalon remains a cause of wonder and speculation.” It’s interesting to note here that Ashardalon is said to have made fell pacts with dread abominations. Eberron? Anyway, in my account Ashardalon kidnapped a balor and shoved it into a hole in his chest, found a fallen deity’s staff, and broken into a soul factory to eat unborn souls which caused a cosmic emergency even the gods couldn’t fix! The magazine goes on… “The only mortal to stand against the full might of Ashardalon was a druid named Dydd, and, if legends can be believed, he owed much of his success to a mysterious staff whose name and function have since been lost. Many builders of magic items have worked to recreate his chosen implement, basing their efforts on tales and myths, while others use such stories for new staffs of their own design.” Timeline Below I offer a possible history of events: Ashardalon ravages the world His cult worships him as a god Gulthias makes Nightfang Spire his temple An Elvish dragon cult builds the Sunless Citadel Ashardalon destroys the druids Dydd the Wise creates a new people Dydd cuts Ashardalon’s heart from his chest Ashardalon escapes to the Abyss Gulthias brings the heart to Nightfang Spire The Sunless Citadel is destroyed (Although it would be cool if Ashardalon fell on the Citadel when Dydd killed him) Gulthias becomes a vampire (Ravenloft connection here) Gulthias travels to the Sunless Citadel Gulthias is staked to the ground in the Twilight Grove Belak the Outcast finds the Citadel Belak helps the Gulthias Tree create the Twig Blights and lures adventurers into the Grove A party of adventures release Gulthias by destroying the tree Gulthias returns to Nightfang Spire. Centuries go by Adventurers kill Gulthias At some point prior Ashardalon infuses Ammet into his chest Ashardalon uses Desayeus’ totem to enter the Bastion The Demogorgon wants to extract the balor from Ashardalon The Demogorgon sends The Cathazar to search for Dydd’s ancestor The Cathazar uses Dyson to open a demonic portal Dyson is defeated The soul sickness appears The soul sickness troubles the gods Dydd’s ancestor enters the positive plane and kills Ashardalon and the balor. Ashardalon becomes a vestige A prestige class is dedicated to Ashardalon The board game, Wrath of Ashardalon, is released. Bibliography Bastion of Broken Souls (BBS) D&D Adventures League: http://dndadventurersleague.org/hooks-the-sunless-citadel/ Draconomicon Dragon Magazine #365 Dragon Magic Heart of Nightfang Spire (HFS) Lord of the Iron Fortress Magic Incarnum Power Score :http://thecampaign20xx.blogspot.com/2015/05/dungeons-dragons-guide-to-demogorgon.html Shannon Appelcline: http://dnd.wizards.com/articles/features/demogorgon-prince-demons Tales from the Yawning Portal The Forge of Fury The Speaker in Dreams The Standing Stone (SS) The Sunless Citadel (SC) Wiki: http://dragons.wikia.com/wiki/Red_Dragon_(Dungeons_%26_Dragons


--- [The Wrath of Ashardalon | Wiki | BoardGameGeek] ---
| Article Edit | History | Editors | The Wrath of Ashardalon [RPG Item Link]The tale of the demonic dragon Ashardalon spans over 1000 years. Ages ago, Ashardalon brought destruction across the land while a twisted cult worshiped him as a god. The Cult of Half-dragon monstrosities called the Children of Ashardalon enjoyed substantial power in the Spire due to their descent from the great dragon. Some formally joined the cult, but most left the temple for regions unknown. Ashardalon slew a cult of druids affiliated with the Church of the Elements, save for Dydd the Wise, who manged to escape. Dydd avenged hus cult by carving Ashardalon’s heart out of his chest. After the druid, Dydd, slew Ashardalon, Gulthias took the dragon’s heart to Nightfang Spire where he was commanded to ready for Ashardalon’s return. Gulthias worried he would die of old age before Ashardalon rose again and so the dragon's cult went through a series of dark rituals in order to become undead and ensure they walked the earth at the time their patron ruled again. Meanwhile, Ashardalon attempted to extend his life by binding a demon called Ammet to his chest as a second heart. However, his injuries were too extensive for the balor's power to keep Ashardalon alive. He then moved to a domain in the Astral Plane known as the Bastion of Unborn Souls and established his lair there. Feasting on the unborn soul of the Bastion healed the deep wounds inflicted on the chest of Ashardalon. This book contains a new race, subclass, background, and spell based off of the dragon-god Ashardalon plus some lore on the dragon himself. - from the publisher's blurb | | [What Links Here] |
