=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Iconic female composer's lost work to be heard for the first time in ...]
Following the re-discovery of 16th century music written by the female composer Maddalena Casulana, her work is to be played for the first time in 400 years to celebrate International Women's Day.
URL: https://www.famouscampaigns.com/2022/03/iconic-female-composers-lost-work-to-be-heard-for-the-first-time-in-400-years/

[Total War Forums]
No snippet
URL: https://forums.totalwar.com/discussion/327628/napoleon-crash-on-startup-not-12th-gen

[Newly discovered music by Renaissance composer ...]
Mar 6, 2022 — BBC Radio 3 celebrates International Women's Day 2022 with the broadcast premiere of Maddalena Casulana's 1583 First Book of five-voice ...
URL: https://www.bbc.com/mediacentre/2022/bbc-radio-3-international-womens-day

[Maddalena Casulana's Rediscovered Madrigals To Premiere On BBC Radio 3]
Mar 8, 2022 — To celebrate International Women's Day BBC Radio 3 will broadcast the live premiere of Maddalena Casulana's 1583 First Book of five-voice ...
URL: https://www.udiscovermusic.com/classical-news/maddalena-casulana-bbc-radio-3/

[Groundbreaking female composer's lost madrigals to be… - inkl]
Music ensemble Fieri Consort will perform Maddalena Casulana's newly rediscovered songs. Photograph: Ben McKee Sixteenth-century madrigals written by an Italian Renaissance female composer are to be performed for the first time in 400 years after the discovery of missing parts of the original music. Maddalena Casulana became the first female composer to publish her own music at a time when ...
URL: https://www.inkl.com/news/groundbreaking-female-composer-s-lost-madrigals-to-be-heard-for-first-time-in-400-years


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Iconic female composer's lost work to be heard for the first time in ...] ---
Iconic female composer’s lost work to be heard for the first time in 400 years Following the re-discovery of 16th century music written by the female composer Maddalena Casulana, her work is to be played for the first time in 400 years to celebrate International Women’s Day. Born in Italy during the Renaissance, Maddalena was the first female composer in history to publish her own music – during a time in which creativity in women was actively discouraged. As of last week, 17 undiscovered madrigals by Maddalena have been found, 12 of which will be premiered on 8 March as part of BBC Radio 3’s special programming for International Women’s Day. Music ensemble Fieri Consort will perform Maddalena Casulana’s newly rediscovered songs.Photograph: Ben McKee Laurie Stras, Professor of Music at the University of Southampton and Huddersfield, discovered the lost pieces by visiting various libraries across Russia and Poland, piecing together any missing sections that were looted during World War II Stras said: “The reason that these madrigals are really important is that Casulana was acknowledged by her male contemporaries as a wonderful composer. She would have had to have been. We talk about women today having to be twice as good as men. That’s exactly what it was like then. These five-voice madrigals show us why she was such an extraordinary composer and why her contemporaries thought so highly of her. To get tickets for the upcoming performance, head here.


--- [Total War Forums] ---
No content


--- [Newly discovered music by Renaissance composer ...] ---
Newly discovered music by Renaissance composer Maddalena Casulana to premiere on BBC Radio 3 this International Women’s Day Casulana’s piece will be performed in full for the first time in 400 years by vocal ensemble Fieri Consort at London’s King’s Place, and broadcast live for the first time ever on BBC Radio 3 on Tuesday 8 March. This year we are delighted to present the extraordinary rediscovery of Casulana’s music alongside several world premieres and the International Women’s Day commission as part of our two live concerts plus for the first time we take you backstage to explore the work our female sound engineers do to bring the music to your homes. It’s. It’s always a joy to find new ways to mark the day on BBC Radio 3. BBC Radio 3 celebrates International Women’s Day 2022 with the broadcast premiere of Maddalena Casulana’s 1583 First Book of five-voice madrigals. Casulana’s piece will be performed in full for the first time in 400 years by vocal ensemble Fieri Consort at London’s King’s Place, and broadcast live for the first time ever on BBC Radio 3 on Tuesday 8 March. The Alto part of Casulana’s book disappeared after World War II from a music collection in Poland, and was lost for decades, making any performance impossible. It was only recently traced back to a library in Moscow by musicologist Professor Laurie Stras. A special episode of Music Matters focuses on the discovery, in a programme also featuring an exploration of women pioneers of classical music record production (first broadcast on Saturday 5 March and repeated on Monday 7 March). The premiere of Casulana’s five-voice madrigals is part of the station’s International Women’s Day celebrations, focusing on female composers and performers past and present, and featuring speech programmes exploring and debating issues from a female perspective. As in previous years on International Women’s Day, all the music broadcast on BBC Radio 3 for 24 hours will be by female composers, with all the live music programmes produced by female producers. Complementing the station’s on-air programme, four behind-the-scenes films will be available on BBC Homepage and BBC Radio 3 social media channels, featuring female engineers, sound mixers and studio managers who work on the stations’ programmes, where they give an overview of their jobs and tips for anyone looking for a career in these fields. Highlights on BBC Radio 3’s celebrations of International Women’s Day 2022 include: - Composer of the Week delving into the life, music and legacy of pianist and composer Henriëtte Bosmans across five programmes, including UK premieres of three specially-recorded works: Cello Concerto No.2; Danse Orientale (from Two Recital Pieces); and Violin Sonata (Monday 7 to Friday 11 March) - BBC Singers with conductor Grace Rossiter presenting a live lunchtime concert from London’s Temple Church, introduced by Katie Derham, with a programme of music by leading women composers of the 21st century, featuring four world premieres (including a special BBC commission for International Women’s Day by Melissa Dunphy) and music for organ and choir performed by the ensemble with organist and broadcaster Anna Lapwood (Radio 3 Lunchtime Concert, Tuesday 8 March) - Saxophonist and broadcaster Jess Gillam joined by trailblazing composer and performer Anna Meredith to share their choices of music by written or performed by women (This Classical Life, first broadcast on Saturday 5 March and on BBC Sounds) - Pop sensation Sigrid is on Classical Fix – where each week host Linton Stephens mixes a bespoke playlist for his guest, who then joins him to share their impressions of their new classical discoveries. In this special episode, Linton presents an all-female playlist (Monday 7 March) - Special editions of Words and Music (Sunday 6 March) and Free Thinking (Tuesday 8 March) focusing on the relationship between sisters, with Pippa Nixon and Sarah Amankwah reading contributions from Wordsworth and Austen’s Pride and Prejudice, Arifa Akbar’s Consumed and CS Lewis’s Narnia among others, and contributions from The Unthank sisters, writers Lucy Holland and Oyinkan Braithwaite and historian and feminist activist Sally Alexander – respectively - Alt-popstar BabyQueen exploring the women composers of the gaming world in a special episode of Gameplay (first broadcast on Saturday 5 March and on BBC Sounds). Through the Night, Breakfast, Essential Classics, Afternoon Concert and In Tune also join the celebration on Tuesday 8 March. Alan Davey, BBC Radio 3 Controller, says: “BBC Radio 3 broadcasts music by female composers all year-round. We pride ourselves with supporting research on unjustly overlooked figures and presenting forgotten pieces on our airwaves, as well as premiering new music, as part of our regular schedules. International Women’s Day is a cherished opportunity every year for us to put a spotlight on the invaluable artistic contribution women across all centuries and genres have given to music. It offers the chance to delight our audiences with unknown gems, new pieces, and familiar repertoire, paired with discussions focusing on arts, history, lifestyle – all with a female perspective. We hope that listeners can enjoy this week of special programming – there is something for everyone!” Olwen Fisher, Lead Producer of International Women’s Day on BBC Radio 3, says: “I’m thrilled to be leading BBC Radio 3’s annual celebration of female creativity once again. As Alan says, we play music by women every day of the year, but it’s always special to devote this day to showcasing inspirational women and to turn so much of the surrounding schedule over to related themes. This year we are delighted to present the extraordinary rediscovery of Casulana’s music alongside several world premieres and the International Women’s Day commission as part of our two live concerts plus for the first time we take you backstage to explore the work our female sound engineers do to bring the music to your homes. It’s. It’s always a joy to find new ways to mark the day on BBC Radio 3.” All the programmes as part of BBC Radio 3’s International Women’s Day celebration will be available to listen to on BBC Sounds. EC


--- [Maddalena Casulana's Rediscovered Madrigals To Premiere On BBC Radio 3] ---
Maddalena Casulana’s Rediscovered Madrigals To Premiere On BBC Radio 3 To celebrate International Women’s Day BBC Radio 3 will broadcast the live premiere of Maddalena Casulana’s newly rediscovered madrigals. To celebrate International Women’s Day BBC Radio 3 will broadcast the live premiere of Maddalena Casulana’s 1583 First Book of five-voice madrigals. In one of the most important discoveries of recent years the lost Alto part of Maddalena Casulana’s First Book of five-voice madrigals, which disappeared after World War II from a music collection in Poland, was recently found by Laurie Stras, Professor of Music at the Universities of Southampton and Huddersfield, at the Russian State Library in Moscow. Maddalena Casulana was an Italian composer, lutenist and singer of the late Renaissance. She was the first female composer to have a whole book of her music printed and published in the history of western music. BBC Radio 3 will broadcast the live premiere of the madrigals Maddalena Casulana’s newly rediscovered madrigals will be performed in full for the first time in 400 years by vocal ensemble Fieri Consort at King’s Place in London, and broadcast live for the first time in BBC Radio 3’s programme Casulana and Strozzi: The Excellence of Women on Tuesday 8 March at 8pm. All the programmes as part of BBC Radio 3’s International Women’s Day celebration will also be available to listen to on BBC Sounds. Living at a time in which women’s creativity was often stifled, Maddalena Casulana (1544-1590) and her compatriot Barbara Strozzi (1619-1677) were only too aware their music would be judged inferior to men’s. To mark International Women’s Day this concert celebrates both composers by presenting Casulana’s madrigals as a fresh perspective on Strozzi’s works. In the dedication of her 1566 first collection of madrigals Maddalena Casulana noted: “these first fruits of mine, flawed as they are …show the world the futile error of men who believe themselves patrons of the high gifts of intellect, which according to them cannot also be held in the same way by women …” Part of BBC Radio 3’s International Women’s Day celebrations The premiere of Maddalena Casulana’s five-voice madrigals is part of BBC Radio 3’s International Women’s Day celebrations, focusing on female composers and performers past and present, and featuring speech programmes exploring and debating issues from a female perspective. As in previous years all the music broadcast on BBC Radio 3 on International Women’s Day will be by female composers, with all the live music programmes produced by female producers. Alan Davey, BBC Radio 3 Controller, said, “BBC Radio 3 broadcasts music by female composers all year-round. We pride ourselves with supporting research on unjustly overlooked figures and presenting forgotten pieces on our airwaves, as well as premiering new music, as part of our regular schedules. International Women’s Day is a cherished opportunity every year for us to put a spotlight on the invaluable artistic contribution women across all centuries and genres have given to music. It offers the chance to delight our audiences with unknown gems, new pieces, and familiar repertoire, paired with discussions focusing on arts, history, lifestyle – all with a female perspective. We hope that listeners can enjoy this week of special programming – there is something for everyone!” For further information on BBC Radio 3’s premiere of Maddalena Casulana’s newly rediscovered madrigals click here. Do you want to be the first to hear the latest news from the classical world? Follow uDiscover Classical on Facebook and Twitter.


--- [Groundbreaking female composer's lost madrigals to be… - inkl] ---
Sixteenth-century madrigals written by an Italian Renaissance female composer are to be performed for the first time in 400 years after the discovery of missing parts of the original music. Maddalena Casulana became the first female composer to publish her own music at a time when such creativity was far from encouraged in women. She believed that men were making a “futile error” in assuming that women could not compose as well as they could and she brought out three books of madrigals under her name between 1568 and 1583, although only one of those collections has survived complete. Now a further 17 madrigals have been added to her small surviving repertoire and 12 of those will be premiered on 8 March as part of BBC Radio 3’s special programming for International Women’s Day. In what is seen as one of the most important musicological discoveries of recent years, Laurie Stras, professor of music at the universities of Southampton and Huddersfield, has tracked down the lost alto partbook of Casulana’s 1583 book of five-voice madrigals, with such evocative titles as Breeze that Murmurs in the Woods. Vocal or instrumental polyphonic music was handwritten or printed in the 15th and 16th centuries in partbooks, with each part appearing separately. Stras said that Casulana’s madrigals could not have been performed without the missing parts: “It would be like performing a string quintet without the second violin. It wouldn’t have made sense. I’ve been able to complete it. The jigsaw puzzle has slotted into place.” She tracked down missing parts from the printed edition to the Russian State Library in Moscow, piecing together the music through other fragments in the Gdańsk Library of the Polish Academy of Sciences. It was from that Polish archive that the missing parts had disappeared in the second world war. They were presumably looted. They still bear Gdańsk’s catalogue numbers. Stras said: “The reason that these madrigals are really important is that Casulana was acknowledged by her male contemporaries as a wonderful composer. She would have had to have been. We talk about women today having to be twice as good as men. That’s exactly what it was like then. These five-voice madrigals show us why she was such an extraordinary composer and why her contemporaries thought so highly of her. She is on the cutting-edge of composition in the 16th century. She uses really interesting harmonic effects. “What we will get from hearing these madrigals is a sense of what’s considered really top-quality composition in her lifetime. She’s as good as any of the masters of her day. The closest comparison is Monteverdi’s teacher, Marc’Antonio Ingegneri, a composer of church music and madrigals.” Casulana, who was also a lutenist and singer, was only too aware that, as a female composer, her music would be judged inferior to works created by her male counterparts. Her 1568 book of madrigals bears an extraordinary dedication to her illustrious patron, Isabella de’ Medici Orsini, daughter of Cosimo I de’ Medici and an amateur musician. She wrote: “These first fruits of mine, flawed as they are … show the world the futile error of men, who believe themselves patrons of the high gifts of intellect, which according to them cannot also be held in the same way by women.” But her male contemporaries recognised her talent. One called her the “muse and siren of our age”. Another described her music, performed at the wedding of Wilhelm V of Bavaria, as “most beautiful”. Noting that little is known about Casulana, who is thought to have died in 1590, Stras said: “How did she get to be so good? Where did she get that knowledge and that skill, because you’re not just born with being able to write five-voice polyphony. It’s really hard.”
