=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Aegean Sea - Wikipedia]
The Aegean Sea is an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean Sea and covers about 214,000 square kilometres (83,000 sq mi) in area, measuring about 670 kilometres (420 mi) longitudinally and 390 kilometres (240 mi) latitudinal. The sea's maximum depth is 2,639 metres (8,658 ft), located at a point west of Karpathos. The Aegean Islands are found within its waters, with the following islands ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aegean_Sea

[Which Countries Have A Coastline On The Aegean Sea? - WorldAtlas]
Oct 31, 2018 · Essentially, the Aegean Sea is a long bay which juts northward off of the Mediterranean Sea. Spanning an area of 83,000 square miles, the sea reaches a maximum width of 250 miles and a length of 430 miles. At its deepest point east of the island of Crete, the Aegean reaches a depth of 11,627 feet.
URL: https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/which-countries-have-a-coastline-on-the-aegean-sea.html

[Location of the Sea - BYJU'S]
Important Facts on Aegean Sea It is also called White Sea in some south Slavik languages. The White Sea has a depth of 11,642 feet, and the maximum length is 430 miles, maximum width being 250 miles. Gockeada and Bozkaada, two most important islands of this sea, belong to Turkey.
URL: https://byjus.com/current-affairs/aegean-sea/

[Aegean Sea | Map, Location, & Description | Britannica]
Feb 5, 2026 · Aegean Sea, an arm of the Mediterranean Sea located between the Greek peninsula on the west and Asia Minor on the east. About 380 miles (612 km) long and 186 miles (299 km) wide, it has a total area of some 83,000 square miles (215,000 square km). The Aegean is connected through the straits of the
URL: https://www.britannica.com/place/Aegean-Sea

[Aegean Sea Facts]
The Aegean Sea has a maximum length of 430 miles and maximum width of 250 miles. It is considered to be an elongated embayment between the Anatolian and Greek ...
URL: https://softschools.com/facts/seas/aegean_sea_facts/3454/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Aegean Sea - Wikipedia] ---
The Aegean Sea is an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean Sea between Europe and Asia. It is located between the Balkans and Anatolia, and covers an area of some 215,000 km2 (83,000 sq mi). In the north, the Aegean is connected to the Marmara Sea, which in turn connects to the Black Sea, by the straits of the Dardanelles and the Bosphorus, respectively. The Aegean Islands are located within the sea and some bound it on its southern periphery, including Crete and Rhodes. The sea reaches a maximum depth of 2,639 m (8,658 ft) to the west of Karpathos.  The Thracian Sea and the Sea of Crete are main subdivisions of the Aegean Sea.
The Aegean Islands can be divided into several island groups, including the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, the Sporades, the Saronic islands and the North Aegean Islands, as well as Crete and its surrounding islands. The Dodecanese, located to the southeast, includes the islands of Rhodes, Kos, and Patmos; the islands of Delos and Naxos are within the Cyclades to the south of the sea. Lesbos is part of the North Aegean Islands. Euboea, the second-largest island in Greece, is located in the Aegean, despite being administered as part of Central Greece. Nine out of twelve of the Administrative regions of Greece border the sea, along with the Turkish provinces of Edirne, Çanakkale, Balıkesir, İzmir, Aydın and Muğla to the east of the sea. Various Turkish islands in the sea are Imbros, Tenedos, Cunda Island, and the Foça Islands.
The Aegean Sea has been historically important, especially regarding the civilization of Ancient Greece, which inhabited the area around the coast of the Aegean and the Aegean islands. The Aegean islands facilitated contact between the people of the area and between Europe and Asia. Along with the Greeks, Thracians lived along the northern coasts. The Romans conquered the area under the Roman Empire, and later the Byzantine Empire held it against advances by the First Bulgarian Empire. The Fourth Crusade weakened Byzantine control of the area, and it was eventually conquered by the Ottoman Empire, with the exception of Crete, which was a Venetian colony until 1669. The Greek War of Independence allowed a Greek state on the coast of the Aegean from 1829 onwards. The Ottoman Empire held a presence over the sea for over 500 years until it was replaced by modern Turkey.
The rocks making up the floor of the Aegean are mainly limestone, though often greatly altered by volcanic activity that has convulsed the region in relatively recent geologic times. Of particular interest are the richly colored sediments in the region of the islands of Santorini and Milos, in the south Aegean. Notable cities on the Aegean coastline include Athens, Thessaloniki, Volos, Kavala, and Heraklion in Greece, and İzmir and Bodrum in Turkey.
Several issues concerning sovereignty within the Aegean Sea are disputed between Greece and Turkey. The Aegean dispute has had a large effect on Greece-Turkey relations since the 1970s. Issues include the delimitation of territorial waters, national airspace, exclusive economic zones, and flight information regions.




--- [Which Countries Have A Coastline On The Aegean Sea? - WorldAtlas] ---
Which Countries Have A Coastline On The Aegean Sea? The Aegean Sea is an important historic and economic body of water located between the nations of Turkey and Greece. Essentially, the Aegean Sea is a long bay which juts northward off of the Mediterranean Sea. Spanning an area of 83,000 square miles, the sea reaches a maximum width of 250 miles and a length of 430 miles. At its deepest point east of the island of Crete, the Aegean reaches a depth of 11,627 feet. Traditionally called the Archipelago, the Aegean is connected to numerous waterways including the straits of Bosphorus and Dardanelles as well as the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara. Turkey and Greece are the only two countries to have a coastline on the Aegean Sea. Turkey Officially known as the Republic of Turkey, this nation which occupies some 302,455 square miles, is home to an estimated population of 80,810,525 residents from various ethnic backgrounds including Turks, Arabs, Kurds, and Lazi. Minority groups make up a significant percentage (approximately 30%) of Turkey’s total population. Chief among those who call this nation home include members of the Greek, Armenian, Jewish, Albanian, Chechen, and Circassian communities. Turkey has a long history dating back to ancient times. According to the fifth book of the Christian New Testament (Acts of the Apostles) the Turkish city of what is now known as Antakya served as the home of the very first community of Christians. In the year 324, Turkey’s largest city Istanbul, then called Byzantium, was given the title of New Rome by Roman Emperor Constantine the Great. Later in its history, the country became part of the Ottoman Empire. Although the nation was neutral through most of World War II it joined the Allies in 1945 and became a member of the United Nations later that same year. Greece Formally known as the Hellenic Republic, Greece occupies a land area of 50,949 square miles. Its population, according to statistics from 2017, stands at 10,768,477 people with a population density of 212.4 inhabitants per square mile. Given all of its historic advancements in the fields of politics, art, philosophy, science, and mathematics, Greece and Greek culture is considered to have played a monumentally important role in terms of the shaping and development of Western civilization. Today Greece is an independent country revered for its unique culture, delicious cuisine, natural beauty, high quality of life and above average standard of living. The nation is also influential economically as well as politically due to its position at the geographical intersection of three continents; Europe, Asia, and Africa. Greece is currently a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the United Nations, the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as the European Union. Greek Islands Because of their location in the Aegean Sea, it is important to consider that although they aren’t separate countries (most are under Greek jurisdiction) about 150 islands lie in this economically, historically, and strategically significant body of water. Among these land masses are the Northeastern Aegean Islands including the island of Lesbos, the Cyclades, the Saronic Islands, the East Aegean Islands, the Dodecanese, as well as Crete, which also ranks as the fifth largest island in the Mediterranean.


--- [Location of the Sea - BYJU'S] ---
No content


--- [Aegean Sea | Map, Location, & Description | Britannica] ---
Aegean Sea News • - Where is the Aegean Sea located within the Mediterranean Sea? - Which countries border the Aegean Sea? - Why is the Aegean Sea important in history? - What are some major islands and cities along the Aegean Sea? - How does the Aegean Sea connect to trade, travel, and culture in the Mediterranean region? Aegean Sea, an arm of the Mediterranean Sea located between the Greek peninsula on the west and Asia Minor on the east. About 380 miles (612 km) long and 186 miles (299 km) wide, it has a total area of some 83,000 square miles (215,000 square km). The Aegean is connected through the straits of the Dardanelles, the Sea of Marmara, and the Bosporus to the Black Sea, while the island of Crete can be taken as marking its boundary on the south. The cradle of two of the great early civilizations, those of Crete and Greece, from which much of modern Western culture is derived, the Aegean Sea is also an important natural feature of the Mediterranean region, possessing several unique characteristics that make it of considerable scientific interest. The Aegean has an intricate configuration and could well be considered as a bay within the eastern Mediterranean basin, to which it is connected by the straits to the west and east of Crete. It also has a good connection to the Ionian Sea to the west, through the strait lying between the Peloponnese peninsula of Greece and Crete. Virtually throughout the Aegean area, numerous islands large and small emerge from the clear blue waters. These are the mountain peaks of Aegeis, the name given to a now-submerged landmass. At the dawn of European history, these islands facilitated contacts between the people of the area and of three continents. Throughout the entire Aegean shoreline—that is, both the continental shores surrounding the Aegean Sea and those of the islands—bays, ports, and shelter creeks are also abundant. These also facilitated the task of seamen traveling in the Aegean Sea, making longer voyages possible at a time when shipbuilding was in its infancy. For its size, no other maritime area of the Mediterranean has comparable shoreline development. The maximum depth of the Aegean is to be found east of Crete, where it reaches 11,627 feet (3,544 metres). The rocks making up the floor of the Aegean are mainly limestone, though often greatly altered by volcanic activity that has convulsed the region in relatively recent geologic times. The richly coloured sediments in the region of the islands of Thera (Santoríni, or Thíra) and Melos (Mílos), in the south Aegean, are particularly interesting. During the 1970s, Thera in particular became a topic of major international scientific importance, analysis of its surrounding sediments having been linked with a possible explanation of the ancient legend of the lost island of Atlantis. North winds prevail in the Aegean Sea, although from the end of September to the end of May, during the mild winter season, these winds alternate with southwesterlies. The tides of the Aegean basin seem to follow the movements of those in the eastern Mediterranean generally. The tide of Euripus (Evrípos)—a strait lying between continental Greece and the island of Euboea (Évvoia) in the Aegean—is, however, extremely important, because it displays a tidal phenomenon of international significance, to which it has, in fact, lent its name. The euripus phenomenon—characterized by violent and uncertain currents—has been studied since the time of Aristotle, who first provided an interpretation of the term. Aegean currents generally are not smooth, whether considered from the viewpoint of either speed or direction. They are chiefly influenced by blowing winds. Water temperatures in the Aegean are influenced by the cold-water masses of low temperature that flow in from the Black Sea to the northeast. The sea surface temperature in the Aegean ranges from about 60 to 77 °F (16 to 25 °C), varying with location and time of year. The Aegean Sea, like the Mediterranean in general, is the most impoverished large body of water known to science. The nutrient content, as indicated by the amount of phosphates and nitrates in the water, is on the whole poor. The less saline waters coming from the Black Sea have a distinct ameliorative influence, but the role of their fertility in the Mediterranean in general has been little studied. Generally, marine life in the Aegean Sea is very similar to that of the northern area of the western basin of the Mediterranean. In view of its limpidity and as a result of its hot waters, it is not surprising that the Aegean Sea accommodates large quantities of fish at the time of their procreating maturity. Such fish enter the Aegean from other areas, notably from the Black Sea. Geographically, the multitude of Greek islands in the Aegean can be arranged into seven principal groups, from north to south: (1) the Thracian Sea group, including Thásos, Samothrace (Samothráki), and Lemnos; (2) the east Aegean group, including Lesbos (Lésvos), Chios, Ikaría, and Sámos; (3) the Northern Sporades, including Skyros, a group lying off Thessaly; (4) the Cyclades, including Melos, Páros, Náxos, Thera, and Ándros (Euboea, although technically an island, is considered a part of the Greek mainland and is connected to Boeotia by a bridge at Chalcís); (5) the Saronic Islands west of the Cyclades, lying 5 to 50 miles (8 to 80 km) from Piraeus and including Salamís, Aegina (Aíyina), Póros, Hydra (Ídhra), and Spétsai; (6) the Dodecanese, a group of 13 islands transferred to Greece by Italy after World War II, the principal island and capital of which is Rhodes; and (7) Crete and associated small islands. Geographically, Crete, Kárpathos, and Rhodes form an arc of giant stepping-stones from Greece to the Turkish coast of Asia Minor. Together with Ikaría, Foúrnoi, and Sámos, the Dodecanese are also known as the Southern Sporades. The Greek dhiamerisma (region) of the Aegean Islands encompasses the nomoí (departments) of Cyclados, Dodecanese, Khíos, Lésvos, and Sámos. So numerous are the islands of the Aegean that the name Archipelago was formerly applied to the sea. Structurally the Aegean islands are subject to frequent earthquakes. Although a number of the larger islands, such as Lesbos, Chios, Rhodes, and Crete, have fertile, well-cultivated plains, most of them are rocky and quite barren, with terraces to conserve the sparse soil. Characteristic of this landscape is the Cyclades group, the southernmost island of which, Thera, has a volcano that was last active in 1925. The northern islands are generally more wooded than are the southern, except Rhodes. - Greek: - Aigaíon Pélagos - Turkish: - Ege Deniz The chief products of the islands are wheat, wine, oil, mastic, figs, raisins, honey, vegetables, marble, and minerals; fishing is also important. Tourism generates increasing income, with visitors attracted to the villages of whitewashed houses and their handicrafts, as well as to the impressive monuments of the great prehistoric civilization that flourished here.


--- [Aegean Sea Facts] ---
Aegean Sea Facts Aegean Sea Facts | | Interesting Aegean Sea Facts: | |---| | The Aegean Sea has a maximum length of 430 miles and maximum width of 250 miles. It is considered to be an elongated embayment between the Anatolian and Greek peninsulas. | | The maximum depth of the Aegean Sea is 11,624 feet, located east of Crete. | | The Aegean Sea is referred to as the White Sea in some south Slavic languages. | | The Aegean Islands include | | Rhodes, Karpathos, Kasos, Crete, Antikythera, and Kythera islands delimit the Aegean Sea on the south. | | The Aegean Islands include Crete, Dodecanese, Saronic Island, Cyclades, Northern Sporades, East Aegean Islands, and Northeastern Aegean Islands. | | The coastline of the Aegean Sea as it sits now dates back to 4000 BC. Prior to this the sea was 130 meters lower. | | Two of the main islands in the Aegean Sea belong to Turkey, including Bozcaada and Gokceada. | | Sea life in the Aegean Sea includes seals, dolphins, whales, and sea turtles, and one fisherman reported seeing a great white shark a few decades ago. | | Jellyfish, scorpion fish, and crocodiles are more dangerous than sharks in the waters of the Aegean Sea. | | Related Links: Facts Seas Facts Animals Facts |
