=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Audio-Animatronics - Wikipedia]
Audio-Animatronic of Father John, the main character of the Walt Disney's Carousel of Progress attraction at Magic Kingdom Audio-Animatronics (also known simply as AAs) are a form of mechatronic animatronics puppetry created by Walt Disney Imagineering and trademarked by the Walt Disney Company for use in designed shows and attractions at Disney theme parks. Audio-Animatronics move and often ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Audio-Animatronics

[A Brief History of Disney's Audio Animatronics - World Of Walt]
Jul 9, 2018 · Registered Trademark Disney actually owns the rights to the term “audio-animatronic”. The term was first used commercially in 1961 during the creation of Project Little Man. Disney filed the trademark in 1964 with the creation of Mr. Lincoln, and it was registered in 1967.
URL: https://worldofwalt.com/history-of-disney-audio-animatronics.html

[The Early Days of Audio-Animatronics© - Walt Disney Family Museum]
With the success of the first applications of Audio-Animatronics, Disney was able to expand and improve upon the technology over the years. Pirates of the Caribbean, considered by many to be the paradigm of Audio-Animatronic showmanship, debuted in Disneyland in 1967. Two years later, 999 happy haunts welcomed foolish mortals to the Haunted ...
URL: https://www.waltdisney.org/blog/early-days-audio-animatronicsc

[Audio-Animatronics | Disney Wiki | Fandom]
The term "Audio-Animatronics" was first used commercially by Disney in 1961, and was filed as a trademark in 1964, before being registered in 1967. Perhaps the most impressive of the company's early Audio-Animatronics efforts was The Enchanted Tiki Room, which opened in 1963 at Disneyland.
URL: https://disney.fandom.com/wiki/Audio-Animatronics

[Taking a Look Back at the History of Animatronics in the Disney Parks]
Mar 30, 2020 · With the Tiki Room’s colorful and energetic birds, Walt was one step closer to his dream of lifelike animatronics. ©Disney The Enchanted Tiki Room ’s diverse menagerie of tropical birds, flowers, and tikis was the first true audio-animatronic system, and it was a smash hit when it opened at Disneyland in 1963.
URL: https://allears.net/2020/03/30/taking-a-look-back-at-the-history-of-animatronics-in-the-disney-parks/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Audio-Animatronics - Wikipedia] ---
Audio-Animatronics (also known simply as AAs) are a form of mechatronic animatronics puppetry created by Walt Disney Imagineering and trademarked by the Walt Disney Company for use in designed shows and attractions at Disney theme parks. 
Audio-Animatronics move and often synchronize with an audio soundtrack from an external sound system (generally a recorded speech or song), and are usually fixed to whatever supports them. They can sit and stand but cannot produce any form of locomotion. 
An Audio-Animatronic differs from an android or robot in that it uses prerecorded movements and sounds, rather than responding to external stimuli.


--- [A Brief History of Disney's Audio Animatronics - World Of Walt] ---
Disney is known for their use of technology and inventing really cool things. This goes all the way back to Walt himself, and his contract with Technicolor for exclusive use of their three-color process for three years. Walt also lead a team he called WED Enterprises; these people were responsible for making Walt’s visions come to life. One thing that they accomplished was the audio-animatronic. While Disney and his team didn’t actually invent the AA (as it is often abbreviated), they did expand upon an existing technology – making it more elaborate and entertaining than ever. The Inspiration The story starts when Walt visited New Orleans. He found a bird in store that sang and moved. He purchased the bird for Lillian, his wife, but showed it to his engineering team first. He tasked them with figuring out how the bird worked then building their own, better, version. Project Little Man The first audio-animatronic was created by machinist Roger Broggie and sculptor Wathel Rogers. They built a nine inch tall figure modeled after the dance routines of Buddy Ebsen, a vaudeville performer. They used cameras, cables, and tubes to make the Little Man tap dance. The project was put on hold so they could work on Disneyland, but it was completed in the early 1960s. Walt wasn’t happy that the character had exterior mechanics, and his team told him that creating a larger character would allow them to put all of the mechanics inside the character – and out of sight. President Lincoln At this suggestion, Walt asked his Imagineers, as they were known by now, to create a Confucius-like character that would sit in the lobby of a restaurant and provide wisdom after visitors asked a question. The Imagineers created the head and were able to make it blink and move its mouth, but this project as abandoned to create President Lincoln. Walt wanted to create an entire attraction based on all of the presidents of the United States, but that was pretty ambitious. He needed to create some attractions for the 1964 World’s Fair, so he decided to start with Lincoln and get his home state of Illinois to sponsor the pavilion. The Lincoln project would allow all of the mechanisms to be held inside the character, which would stand up, sit down, and speak a pre-recorded message. He was the world’s first audio-animatronic human figure and he was the star of the Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln show. An identical show opened in Disneyland in 1965 while performing at the World’s Fair, which means the Imagineers created two Lincolns in a very short time period. Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln operated at the World’s Fair until October 17th, 1965 and in Disneyland until 1972. Lincoln reappeared in 1975 and has remained part of the park ever since, with the exception of a four-year break from 2005 to 2009 for Disneyland: The First 50 Magical Years. Registered Trademark Disney actually owns the rights to the term “audio-animatronic”. The term was first used commercially in 1961 during the creation of Project Little Man. Disney filed the trademark in 1964 with the creation of Mr. Lincoln, and it was registered in 1967. Since then, Disney has created AAs for shows and attractions reducing the amount of live actors necessary to keep the parks running. Enchanted Tiki Room The Enchanted Tiki Room opened in 1963 in Disneyland as the first show to use audio-animatronic technology. This show brought to life Walt’s bird from New Orleans and created 150 talking, singing, dancing birds to fill the attraction. Their eyes and faces moved with the musical score. This show was also the first use of electromechanical technology for the animatronics. You see, there was a problem with Mr. Lincoln. He functioned with machinery that needed oils to move his parts. During one of the shows at the World’s Fair, Lincoln sprouted a leak, which was visible to the audience. Most unfortunate, the leak was red and brought to mind Lincoln’s assassination. Disney didn’t want this to happen again or have oil drip on guests below, so they created the electromechanical technology for the birds so they would use pneumatic movements triggered by sound. The Future of Audio-Animatronics Disney continued to use animatronics in shows and attractions and perfect their technology over the years. Check out the rest of the articles in this series later this week for classic audio-animatronics, retired audio-animatronics, and advanced technology in audio animatronics. Are you a fan of Disney audio-animatronics?


--- [The Early Days of Audio-Animatronics© - Walt Disney Family Museum] ---
In the summer of 1949, Walt Disney took his wife Lillian and daughters Diane and Sharon on a holiday to Europe. The family visited England (and stopped by the set of Treasure Island—Disney’s first all-live-action feature), Ireland, Switzerland, and France. One afternoon in Paris, Walt ventured out on his own and did some shopping. He returned to the hotel room with two large bags filled with a variety of wind-up toys. With his family looking on, he unpackaged every one of them, wound them up, and studied them. Diane remembers that moment. “Sharon and I were very entertained by them,” she recalls, “and his manner.” But her father saw something in those toys. “It’s amazing that you can get such interesting movement from a very simple mechanism,” Walt observed. A few of those very toys can be viewed in Gallery 7 of The Walt Disney Family Museum, accompanied by a description from Diane: “Not terribly unique, but possibly the forerunners of Audio-Animatronics.” In 1951, machinist Roger Broggie and sculptor Wathel Rogers (a year before they would be labeled Imagineers) led a team tasked with creating a nine-inch-tall figure that could move and talk. Actor Buddy Ebsen was brought in to perform vaudevillian dance routines (under the direction of Walt Disney), providing movement for the little mechanical man to emulate. The assignment, dubbed “Project Little Man,” would eventually be put on hold for a slightly bigger project: Disneyland. In the early 1960s, after Disneyland was up and running, Walt was ready to revisit three dimensional animation. By the end of “Project Little Man,” however, Roger Broggie had apprised Walt of the limitations of working with miniatures. “I told Walt that if we were allowed to build full-size figures, we could put the equipment inside the figure,” Broggie said. “We wouldn't have to go through cables and cams, we could build integrated figures.” It wasn’t long before Walt thought up a human-size application. “I want to have a Chinese restaurant at the Park,” Walt told his Imagineers. “Out in the lobby will be an old Chinese fellow like Confucius—not an actor, but a figure made out of plastic. Now the customers will ask him questions, and he'll reply with words of wisdom.” The Imagineers assembled the head, and got it to blink its eyes and open and close its mouth. “Now let’s make him talk,” Walt enthused. He then instructed the team to begin watching television with the sound off, and observe how people formed words. Rogers was the director of the project, and he remembered, “You could always tell who was working on the job; they never looked at your eyes when you were talking to them, always at your mouth.” The Chinese head showed promise, but it would never be finished. Walt had his Imagineers drop the project in favor of creating a figure that would move, talk, and look like Abraham Lincoln. Work began on the Lincoln figure to showcase the capabilities of the burgeoning Audio-Animatronic technology, as Walt hoped to obtain a sponsor for his proposed Hall of Presidents exhibit in Disneyland. Unfortunately the project was viewed as too expensive, and no one expressed real interest. That is, until, the New York World’s Fair came calling. Robert Moses, New York bureaucrat and head of the 1964/65 World’s Fair, set aside land specifically for what Variety would refer to as a permanent eastern Disneyland. Walt brought Moses in to “meet” Lincoln, and when the robotic president extended his hand, Moses was dumbfounded. “I won’t open the fair without that exhibit!” he exclaimed. “Well, we couldn’t get the entire Hall of Presidents together in time,” Walt replied. “But we might be able to finish Lincoln.” The sixteenth president’s home state of Illinois agreed to sponsor the show. Work was also underway on a General Electric sponsored attraction featuring an entire cast of Audio-Animatronic figures, designed to illustrate the American family’s progress throughout the 20th century via the magic of electricity (and GE appliances). The show, which featured a theater rotating around a stationary stage, opened as Progressland. Walt referred to it as “The Carousel Theater of Progress.” The first completed application of Audio-Animatronics arrived in Disneyland in 1963, in the form of a show where the birds sang words and the flowers crooned. “It kind of started with Walt, and this little mechanical bird in a cage that he had,” Rogers remembered. “Walt gave it to me and asked me to look inside it.” Initially planned to be a cute little show to entertain patrons while dining, Walt Disney's Enchanted Tiki Room continued to grow to the point where it became its own show, sans restaurant, and opened with over 200 flowers, birds, and Tiki Gods serenading a captivated public. With the success of the first applications of Audio-Animatronics, Disney was able to expand and improve upon the technology over the years. Pirates of the Caribbean, considered by many to be the paradigm of Audio-Animatronic showmanship, debuted in Disneyland in 1967. Two years later, 999 happy haunts welcomed foolish mortals to the Haunted Mansion. The mechanical stalwarts that comprise many of Disney’s key attractions have become a cornerstone in Disney parks all over the world. In those early days, however, the new technology at times proved to be an arduous process. It took a visionary like Walt Disney to keep the Imagineers steadfast when complications arose. “Don’t worry,” he would tell them. “It’s going to work.” Considering Walt Disney’s Enchanted Tiki Room celebrates its 50th birthday this month, it’s safe to say that Walt was right. Keith Gluck is a WDFM volunteer, writer/editor for thedisneyproject.com, a Disney fan site. His Disney life started early, visiting Disneyland before turning one, and writing his very first book report on a Walt Disney biography for kids.


--- [Audio-Animatronics | Disney Wiki | Fandom] ---
Audio-Animatronics are creations of Walt Disney and his Imagineers. Audio-Animatronics are essentially robots controlled by radio and/or cables in the floor. The robots are designed to look like real animals and humans, allowing them to have startlingly lifelike movements. They can sit and stand but cannot walk. An Audio-Animatron is different from an android-type robot in that it uses prerecorded movements and sounds, rather than responding to external stimuli. In 2009, Disney created an interactive version of the technology called Autonomatronics. History[] Audio-Animatronics were originally a creation of Disney employee Lee Adams, who worked as an electrician at the Burbank studio and was one of Disney's original Imagineers. One of the first Disney Audio-Animatronics was a toy bird Walt Disney got in New Orleans. It was a simple mechanical bird, and Walt decided to improve the device that moved it. Another was a "dancing man", created by Roger Broggie and Wathel Rogers. The term "Audio-Animatronics" was first used commercially by Disney in 1961, and was filed as a trademark in 1964, before being registered in 1967. Perhaps the most impressive of the company's early Audio-Animatronics efforts was The Enchanted Tiki Room, which opened in 1963 at Disneyland. It was (and still is) a room full of tropical creatures with eye and facial actions synchronized to a musical score entirely by electromechanical means. The "cast" of the musical revue uses tones recorded on tape to vibrate a metal reed that closes a circuit to trigger a relay, which sends a pulse of electricity to a mechanism that causes a pneumatic valve to move part of the figure. Reportedly, when the Tiki Room opened, Walt placed a talking bird outside the attraction. But he soon had to have it taken down, as people were so amazed and distracted by the bird that the line moved too slowly. The movements of the attraction's birds, flowers, and tiki idols are triggered by sound. Figures' movements have a neutral "natural resting position" that the limb or part returns to when there is no electric pulse present. Other than this, the animation is a digital system, with only on/off moves, such as an open or closed eye. Other early Audio-Animatrons were at the 1964 New York World's Fair. They were used in the Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln exhibit at the State of Illinois Pavilion, Pepsi/UNICEF's "It's a Small World" exhibit, General Electric's Carousel of Progress, and Ford Motor Company's "Magic Skyway." Technology[] Pneumatic actuators were not powerful enough to move heavier objects like simulated limbs, so hydraulics were used for large figures. On/off type movement would cause an arm to be lifted (for example) either up over an animatron's head or down next to its body, but with no halting or change of speed in between. To create more realistic movement in large figures, an analog system was used. This gave the figures' body parts a full range of fluid motion, rather than only two positions. The digital system was used with small pneumatic moving limbs (eyelids, beaks, fingers), and the analog system was used for large hydraulic human or animal moving limbs (arms, heads). To permit a high degree of freedom, the control cylinders resemble typical miniature pneumatic or hydraulic cylinders, but mount the back of the cylinder on a ball joint and threaded rod. This ball joint permits the cylinders to float freely inside the frame, such as when the wrist joint rotates and flexes. Disney's technology is not infallible however; the oil-filled cylinders do occasionally drip or leak. It is sometimes necessary to do makeup touch-up work, or to strip the clothing off a figure due to leaking fluids inside. The Tiki Room remains a pneumatic theatrical set, primarily due to the leakage concerns; Disney does not want hydraulic fluids dripping down onto the audience during a show. Because each individual cylinder requires its own control channel, the original Audio-Animatronic figures were relatively simple in design, to reduce the number of channels required. For example, the first human designs (referred to internally by Disney as series A-1) included all four fingers of the hand as one actuator. It could wave its hand but it couldn't grasp or point at something. With modern digital computers controlling the device, the number of channels is virtually unlimited, allowing more complex, realistic motion. The current versions (series A-1000) now have individual actuators for each finger. Compliance[] Compliance is a new technology that allows faster, more realistic movements without sacrificing control. In the older figures, a fast limb movement would cause the entire figure to shake in an unnatural way. The Imagineers thus had to program slower movements, sacrificing speed in order to gain control. This was frustrating for the animators, who, in many cases, wanted faster movements. Compliance improves this situation by allowing limbs to continue past the points where they are programmed to stop; they then return quickly to the "intended" position, much as real organic body parts do. The various elements also slow to a stop at their various positions, instead of using the immediate stops that caused the unwanted shaking. This absorbs shock, much like the shock absorbers on a car or the natural shock absorption in a living body. Cosmetics[] The skin of an Audio-Animatronic is made from silicone rubber. Because the neck is so much narrower than the rest of the skull, the skull skin cover has a zipper up the back to permit easy removal. The facial appearance is painted onto the rubber, and standard cosmetic makeup is also used. Over time, the flexing causes the paint to loosen and fall off, so occasional makeup work and repainting is required. Generally as the rubber skin flexes, the stress causes it to dry and begin to crack. Figures that do not have a high degree of motion flexibility (such as the older A-1 series Lincoln) may only need the skin to be replaced every ten years. The most recent A-100 series human AAs (such as for Barack Obama) also include flexion actuators that move the cheeks and eyebrows to permit more realistic expressions, but the skin wears out more quickly and needs replacement at least every five years. The wig on each human AA is made from natural human hair for the highest degree of realism, but using real hair creates its own problems, since the changing humidity and constant rapid motions of the moving AA carriage hardware throughout the day cause the hair to slowly lose its styling, requiring touch-ups before each day's showing. Autonomatronics[] Autonomatronics is a registered trademark for a more advanced Audio-Animatronic technology, also created by Walt Disney Imagineers. The original Audio-Animatronics used hydraulics to operate robotic figures to present a pre-programmed show. This more sophisticated technology can include cameras and other sensors feeding signals to a high-speed computer which processes the information and makes choices about what to say and do. Disney created "Otto", the first interactive figure that can hear, see, and sense actions in the room. Otto can hold conversations and react to the audience. In December 2009, Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln returned to Disneyland using the new Autonomatronics technology. Variations[] The technology of the AAs at Disney's theme parks around the world vary in their sophistication. They range from the blinking and mouth movements at Walt Disney's Enchanted Tiki Room to full body movement, from the mouth to the tip of the fingers at Stitch's Great Escape! at the Magic Kingdom. Current technologies have paved the way for more elaborate AA figures, such as the "Ursula head" inside the Mermaid Lagoon Theater at Tokyo DisneySea, the Indiana Jones figures inside the Indiana Jones attractions at both Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea, the "sword-fighting" pirates inside Pirates of the Caribbean at Disneyland Park (Paris), the "lava/rock monster" inside Journey to the Center of the Earth at Tokyo DisneySea, the dinosaurs inside DINOSAUR, and the "Yeti " inside Expedition Everest at Disney's Animal Kingdom, or the Roz figure inside Monsters, Inc. Mike & Sulley to the Rescue! at Disney California Adventure Park. The Roz figure is able to "interact" with guests with help from an unseen ride operator who chooses pre-recorded messages for Roz to "speak", thereby seeming to "react" to individual guests' unique appearances and clothing. Mr. Potato Head outside of the Toy Story Mania! attractions at the Disney California Adventure and Disney's Hollywood Studios parks does the same as Roz does. One of the newest figures comes with changes to the classic Pirates of the Caribbean attraction at Disneyland and the Magic Kingdom, both now featuring characters from the Pirates of the Caribbean film series. The Jack Sparrow figure is based on the actor that portrays him, Johnny Depp, even featuring his voice and facial mold. So far, the newest and most advanced Audio-Animatronic figure is Abraham Lincoln at The Disneyland Story: Featuring Great Moments With Mr. Lincoln at Disneyland. Lincoln can move his lips to form words, can make very dramatic movements, and can portray emotions to match the words he's saying. The Audio-Animatronic Indiana Jones figures inside Indiana Jones Adventure: Temple of the Crystal Skull at Tokyo DisneySea resemble actor Harrison Ford, unlike the original figures found at the Disneyland version, Temple of the Forbidden Eye. In 2010, some of the Audio-Animatronic figures at the Disneyland version were replaced with more technically advanced figures that also look more like Ford. However, neither version features Harrison Ford's actual voice. Gallery[] Video[] External links[] - Audio-Animatronics on Wikipedia - DizTech: The Disney Technology Blog - Autonomatronics at Disney Parks Blog


--- [Taking a Look Back at the History of Animatronics in the Disney Parks] ---
No content
