=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Willis H. Flygare - Wikipedia]
[2] He received Irving Langmuir Award in 1981. [1] Flygare was a professor of chemistry at Illinois, [2] a member of the National Academy of Sciences. [1][2] The University of Illinois established lectures in his name and a memorial fund. [6] The University of Illinois called him "one of the most creative and dynamic physical chemists in the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willis_H._Flygare

[Flygare, Willis H. (1936-1981) | Department of Chemistry | Illinois]
Professor Flygare received many awards for his work, including Guggenheim Fellowships in 1972 and 1978, the Phi Lambda Upsilon Fresenius Award in 1971, the Baekeland Medal in 1973 and the Irving Langmuir Prize in 1981. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1974 and was awarded an honorary doctorate from St. Olaf College in 1976.
URL: https://chemistry.illinois.edu/spotlight/faculty/flygare-willis-h-1936-1981

[2026 Willis H. Flygare: Chemistry Researcher – H-Index ...]
Willis H. Flygare is affiliated with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in the United States. Over the course of their career, they have been recognized with multiple awards and fellowships from prestigious organizations. The awards received include the Irving Langmuir Award from the American Chemical Society (ACS) in 1981, the Centenary Prize from the Royal Society of Chemistry ...
URL: https://research.com/u/willis-h-flygare

[Irving Langmuir Award]
1981 Willis H. Flygare; 1982 Benjamin Widom; 1983 Dudley R. Herschbach; 1984 Robert W. Zwanzig; 1985 Richard N. Zare; 1986 Sidney W. Benson [Wikidata]; 1987 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irving_Langmuir_Award

[About Willis H. Flygare | Department of Chemistry | Illinois]
Professor Flygare received many awards for his work, including Guggenheim Fellowships in 1972 and 1978, the Phi Lambda Upsilon Fresenius Award in 1971, the Baekeland Medal in 1973 and the Irving Langmuir Prize in 1981. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1974 and was awarded an honorary doctorate from St. Olaf College in 1976.
URL: https://chemistry.illinois.edu/news-events/events/lectures/flygare-memorial-lectures-physical-chemistry/about-willis-h-flygare


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Willis H. Flygare - Wikipedia] ---
Willis H. Flygare (July 24, 1936 – May 18, 1981) was an American physical chemist and professor at University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign.


--- [Flygare, Willis H. (1936-1981) | Department of Chemistry | Illinois] ---
University of Illinois colleagues remember Bill Flygare as "one of the most creative and dynamic physical chemists in the world." Shortly before his death in 1981, Professor Flygare was awarded the Irving Langmuir Prize in Chemical Physics and was cited for: "outstanding contributions to the understanding of molecular electronic structure and molecular dynamics through the introduction of high resolution microwave techniques and other innovations; for his many contributions in other fields including light scattering in and structure of liquids; for setting an example of combined theoretical and experimental excellence in chemical physics." Willis Flygare earned his bachelor's degree from St. Olaf College in 1958 and his doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley in 1961. He was a professor of chemistry at Illinois from 1961 until his death. During that period he developed a new experimental method involving the molecular Zeeman effect, and with it, he measured most of the known molecular quadrupole moments and magnetic susceptibility anisotropies. He developed a highly sensitive microwave spectrometer by combining molecular beams with Fourier transform techniques. Professor Flygare received many awards for his work, including Guggenheim Fellowships in 1972 and 1978, the Phi Lambda Upsilon Fresenius Award in 1971, the Baekeland Medal in 1973 and the Irving Langmuir Prize in 1981. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1974 and was awarded an honorary doctorate from St. Olaf College in 1976. View the biographical memoir by David Chandler.


--- [2026 Willis H. Flygare: Chemistry Researcher – H-Index ...] ---
Willis H. Flygare is affiliated with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in the United States. Over the course of their career, they have been recognized with multiple awards and fellowships from prestigious organizations. The awards received include the Irving Langmuir Award from the American Chemical Society (ACS) in 1981, the Centenary Prize from the Royal Society of Chemistry (UK) in 1975, and election to the National Academy of Sciences in 1974. Additionally, they were named a Fellow of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation twice, in 1971 and again in 1978. Other fellowships include those from the American Physical Society (APS) in 1968 and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation in 1964. D. W. Hafemeister;W. H. Flygare G. R. Alms;A.K. Burnham;W. H. Flygare W. H. Flygare T. J. Balle;E. J. Campbell;M. R. Keenan;W. H. Flygare B.R. Ware;W.H. Flygare W. G. Read;W. H. Flygare A. C. Legon;P. D. Aldrich;W. H. Flygare L.W. Buxton;E.J. Campbell;W.H. Flygare T. D. Gierke;H. L. Tigelaar;W. H. Flygare P. D. Soper;A. C. Legon;W. G. Read;W. H. Flygare A. C. Legon;P. D. Soper;W. H. Flygare M. R. Keenan;D. B. Wozniak;W. H. Flygare P. D. Aldrich;A. C. Legon;W. H. Flygare T. G. Schmalz;C. L. Norris;W. H. Flygare A. K. Burnham;Jae Keun Lee;T. G. Schmalz;P. Beak A. K. Burnham;G. R. Alms;W. H. Flygare P. D. Soper;A. C. Legon;W. H. Flygare M. R. Keenan;E. J. Campbell;T. J. Balle;L. W. Buxton M. R. Keenan;L. W. Buxton;E. J. Campbell;A. C. Legon E. J. Campbell;L. W. Buxton;T. J. Balle;M. R. Keenan If you think any of the details on this page are incorrect, let us know.


--- [Irving Langmuir Award] ---
The Irving Langmuir Prize in Chemical Physics is awarded annually, in even years by the American Chemical Society and in odd years by the American Physical Society. The award is meant to recognize and encourage outstanding interdisciplinary research in chemistry and physics, in the spirit of Irving Langmuir. A nominee must have made an outstanding contribution to chemical physics or physical chemistry within the 10 years preceding the year in which the award is made. The award will be granted without restriction, except that the recipient must be a resident of the United States.
The award was established in 1931 by Dr. A.C. Langmuir, brother of Nobel Prize-winning chemist Irving Langmuir, to recognize the best young chemist in the United States. A $10,000 prize was to be awarded annually by the American Chemical Society. The first recipient was Linus Pauling. In 1964, the General Electric Foundation took over the financial backing of the prize, which was renamed the Irving Langmuir Award and the modern selection process was created. In 2006 the GE Global Research took over sponsorship of the award, and since 2009 the award has been co-sponsored between GE Global Research and the ACS Division of Physical Chemistry.




--- [About Willis H. Flygare | Department of Chemistry | Illinois] ---
University of Illinois colleagues remember Bill Flygare as "one of the most creative and dynamic physical chemists in the world." Shortly before his death in 1981, Professor Flygare was awarded the Irving Langmuir Prize in Chemical Physics and was cited for: "outstanding contributions to the understanding of molecular electronic structure and molecular dynamics through the introduction of high resolution microwave techniques and other innovations; for his many contributions in other fields including light scattering in and structure of liquids; for setting an example of combined theoretical and experimental excellence in chemical physics." Willis Flygare earned his bachelor's degree from St. Olaf College in 1958 and his doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley in 1961. He was a professor of chemistry at Illinois from 1961 until his death. During that period he developed a new experimental method involving the molecular Zeeman effect, and with it, he measured most of the known molecular quadrupole moments and magnetic susceptibility anisotropies. He developed a highly sensitive microwave spectrometer by combining molecular beams with Fourier transform techniques. Professor Flygare received many awards for his work, including Guggenheim Fellowships in 1972 and 1978, the Phi Lambda Upsilon Fresenius Award in 1971, the Baekeland Medal in 1973 and the Irving Langmuir Prize in 1981. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1974 and was awarded an honorary doctorate from St. Olaf College in 1976.
