=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[All My Kingdoms / CD HEAVATAR - NAPALM RECORDS]
Apr 1, 2013 · The artwork was created by the renowned fantasy artist KEREM BEYIT. "All my Kingdoms" is a celebration for Power Metal fans, who love catchy refrains, epic choirs, classic tunes, heavy riffs and thundering double-bass. The debut will also take supports of different genres by storm - to the Metal!
URL: https://napalmrecords.com/english/all-my-kingdoms-cd.html

[Dan and Arno's 2013 in Review: Best Album Cover Artwork]
Feb 6, 2014 — Heavatar - Opus I - All My Kingdoms. Arno: For Heavatar's debut, Kerem Beyit went with a fantastic landscape, the kind writers like me can only ...
URL: https://blackwindmetal.wordpress.com/2014/02/06/dan-and-arnos-2013-in-review-best-album-cover-artwork/

[Heavatar - Wikipedia]
Heavatar was founded in 2012 by Van Canto founder Stefan Schmidt as a project. The debut album, All My Kingdoms, was released in February 2013 via Napalm Records.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heavatar

[VAN CANTO Mastermind's HEAVATAR Signs With NAPALM RECORDS]
Jan 24, 2013 · HEAVATAR — the new project from VAN CANTO mastermind Stefan Schmidt — has inked a deal with Napalm Records. HEAVATAR 's debut album, "Opus I - All My Kingdoms", will be released on February 22.
URL: https://blabbermouth.net/news/van-canto-mastermind-s-heavatar-signs-with-napalm-records

[Heavatar Set To Release Debut LP - in Metal News ( Metal Underground.com )]
The artwork was created by the renowned fantasy artist Kerem Beyit. 'All My Kingdoms' is a celebration for Power Metal fans, who love catchy refrains, epic choirs, classic tunes, heavy riffs and thundering double-bass.
URL: https://www.metalunderground.com/news/details.cfm?newsid=87922


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [All My Kingdoms / CD HEAVATAR - NAPALM RECORDS] ---
All My Kingdoms CD Art. Nr.: 17700 Release: 04.01.2013 Special Price €6.99 Regular Price €11.99 Incl. VAT , excl. Shipping Cost Available Article information | Band | HEAVATAR | |---|---| | Release Date | Jan 4, 2013 | | Genre | Heavy Metal | | Packaging | Jewelcase | Description Classic inspired Power Metal project from VAN CANTO mastermind feat. Jörg Michael (Ex-STRATOVARIUS) HEAVATAR is the new project from VAN CANTO Mastermind Stefan Schmidt, who exchanges the "A Cappella" sounds with loud guitars on "All my Kingdoms": The debut offers modern Power Metal. Each song borrows - some more, some less - a motif from classical composers - ranging from Bach to Paganini and Beethoven. On "All my Kingdoms", Stefan takes care of rhythm guitar and vocals, and is supported by drummer Jörg Michael (Ex-STRATOVARIUS) amongst other musicians. The epic songs are filled with mighty choirs, which are performed by members of the BLIND GUARDING choir-team and of course, Stefan's friends in VAN CANTO. The artwork was created by the renowned fantasy artist KEREM BEYIT. "All my Kingdoms" is a celebration for Power Metal fans, who love catchy refrains, epic choirs, classic tunes, heavy riffs and thundering double-bass. The debut will also take supports of different genres by storm - to the Metal! TRACKLIST 2. Abracadabra 3. All my Kingdoms 4. Elysium at Dawn 5. Long Way Home 6. Born to fly 7. Luna! Luna! 8. The Look above. 9. To the Metal


--- [Dan and Arno's 2013 in Review: Best Album Cover Artwork] ---
Yeah, no pretense here. This list exists because we drool over cool album art and love to stare at big pictures of it. This list is again in no particular order. 1) Avantasia – The Mystery Of Time Arno: For as big a Magnum fan as Tobias Sammet, it must have been a dream come true to have Rodney Matthews create the cover art for his latest Avantasia venture. After all, On A Storyteller’s Night has classic album art and The Mystery Of Time was adorned with a similar playful, fairytale-like image. I’m not entirely sure what those gnomes (if they are even gnomes) are doing with that clock and how their actions tie into the incomprehensible album’s story, but the result is something magical, appropriate for an album that is constantly so (except for “Sleepwalking”). 2) Bane Of Winterstorm – The Last Sons Of Perylin Arno: Artist Damian Bajowski has no prior metal work as far as I know, and if this is indeed his introduction to the scene, it is a glorious one. In a genre infested with Felipe Machado Franco’s (often excellent ones, mind you), Bajowski’s art is a refreshing style, without skimming on the epic power metal stuff. It has a dynamic vibe, a chase, a gallop, and the kind of excitement found in the music itself as well. 3) Heavatar – Opus I – All My Kingdoms Arno: For Heavatar’s debut, Kerem Beyit went with a fantastic landscape, the kind writers like me can only dream about describing. The framework is a pity, as it crops the image too much to have a full effect, but when properly cut it’s a striking painting of a fantasy world. As there is no clear story to the album to go with it, it seems a bit at odds with the material (which is so influenced by historical composers), but the music itself is of the heroic Blind Guardian-kind, and therefore cover and content are quite suited to each other after all. 4) Wisdom – Marching For Liberty Arno: Gyula Havancsak outdid himself for Wisdom’s third, breaking free of the static covers that Words Of Wisdom and Judas presented, and going for a much broader scope. The robed and bearded wiseman is still front and center (he’s even acquired a friend!), but he’s part of a bigger world now. For an album that saw Wisdom soar higher than before, it seems appropriate, and the now all that’s left for the wiseman is to conquer the bigger world he’s now a part of. 5) Iron Mask – Fifth Son Of Winterdoom Arno: The cover for Iron Mask’s fifth full-length is a tad more personal. Frontman Dushan Petrossi has admitted that he’s supposed to be the child on the cover: the fifth son of winterdoom. The black and white wolves could represent the dual nature of the band at this point: neoclassical power metal scorchers with a touch of history to the left, heavy metal/hard rock anthems to the right. Or maybe it’s just a badass image courtesy of the band’s new house painter Genzoman, also responsible for Black As Death‘s similarly awesome cover. 6) Dark Moor – Ars Musica Dan: I love the imagery in this one. The boy playing calmly amidst the chaos around him is probably some sort of metaphor for Dark Moor’s gorgeous compositions being a bastion in the turbulent world we live in (or something). I haven’t seen Nathália Suellen’s name on anything that I recognize (she’s a self-proclaimed “dark artist”), but with a cover like this, I hope she scores another deal in the genre soon! 7) Tierramystica – Heirs Of The Sun Dan: I have no idea who is responsible for this artwork, and I don’t care. It’s as evocative and picturesque as Tierramystica’s brilliantly unique take on power metal. 8) Optic – Iris In Dan: Anything involving mind, vision, or cerebral imagery or wording is almost definitely going to be prog-related by default – it’s one of the well-accepted tropes of the genre. I think I actually listened through (and was floored by) Optic’s debut a couple of times before I even saw the cover art, which only impressed me further. The enigmatic whorl of the iris and the rough-hewn imagery of Iris In’s cover (courtesy of Martin Clark Bridge, according to the band’s bandcamp page) is doubly impressive for an unsigned, digitally-released album. 9) Mindcage – Our Own Devices Dan: Flashy artwork really can get the job done, and Our Own Devices surprised me right away when seeing it plastered on T-shirts at ProgPower USA. The steampunk atmosphere of the album is channeled pretty clearly through its packaging, and like the music within, the artwork is slightly dimmed, distressed, and mechanical. Of everything on this list, Mindcage’s is the one album that I picked up based solely upon packaging – and that, in and of itself, means that the art job was well worth the effort. 10) Human Fortress – Raided Land Dan: Now, this might not be fair, but the obvious Central American imagery here (created, apparently, by a Croatian artist named Kristijan Kulis) screams “MOB RULES” at me, and that is never a bad thing – nor is the Human Fortress emblem set against a banner. It might not be all I hoped it would, but I think this is a downright iconic album cover.


--- [Heavatar - Wikipedia] ---
24 captures 31 Oct 2013 - 19 Feb 2026 Jan FEB Mar 19 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260219141339/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heavatar


--- [VAN CANTO Mastermind's HEAVATAR Signs With NAPALM RECORDS] ---
VAN CANTO Mastermind's HEAVATAR Signs With NAPALM RECORDS January 24, 2013HEAVATAR — the new project from VAN CANTO mastermind Stefan Schmidt — has inked a deal with Napalm Records. HEAVATAR's debut album, "Opus I - All My Kingdoms", will be released on February 22. Each song on the CD borrows — some more, some less — a motif from classical composers, ranging from Bach to Paganini and Beethoven. On "All My Kingdoms", Stefan takes care of rhythm guitar and vocals, and is supported by drummer Jörg Michael (ex-STRATOVARIUS),among other musicians. The epic songs are filled with mighty choirs, which are performed by members of the BLIND GUARDIAN choir team and of course, Stefan's friends in VAN CANTO. The artwork was created by the renowned fantasy artist Kerem Beyit. "Opus I - All My Kingdoms" track listing: 01. Replica 02. Abracadabra 03. All My Kingdoms 04. Elysium At Dawn 05. Long Way Home 06. Born To Fly 07. Luna! Luna! 08. The Look Above 09. To The Metal Says Stefan Schmidt: "I am very happy, that HEAVATAR cooperates with Napalm Records. They are doing a great job for VAN CANTO and I am convinced that together we can get a lot of people hooked on HEAVATAR. To the metal!" Nadir, A&R representative at Napalm Records, states: "Never change a winning team. For three years we've been doing our best for our a capella heroes VAN CANTO. Thus, it was a no-brainer that we also sign Stef's new band HEAVATAR. 'All My Kingdoms' turned out to be a melodic power metal beast that will also take new fans by storm, who prefer 'traditional' metal with guitars and bass!"


--- [Heavatar Set To Release Debut LP - in Metal News ( Metal Underground.com )] ---
No content
