=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jones-Shafroth Act - Wikipedia]
The Jones-Shafroth Act (Pub. L. 64-368, 39 Stat. 951, enacted March 2, 1917), officially called the Organic Act of Puerto Rico or the Puerto Rico Federal Relations Act of 1917, [a] is an organic act of the 64th United States Congress that was signed into law by President Woodrow Wilson on March 2, 1917.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jones%E2%80%93Shafroth_Act

[Jones-Shafroth Act | Definition, Summary, Significance, History ...]
Feb 23, 2026 · Under the act the governor as well as the U.S. president also retained the right to veto any law passed by the Puerto Rican legislature. In the ensuing years, many provisions of the Jones-Shafroth Act were superseded. Notably, beginning in 1948, Puerto Ricans were allowed to elect their governor.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/event/Jones-Shafroth-Act

[1917: Jones-Shafroth Act - A Latinx Resource Guide: Civil Rights Cases ...]
It also stated that Puerto Rico's Governor and the U.S. Executive branch possessed authorization to veto or override any law enacted by that legislature. Citizenship under the Jones-Shafroth Act (1917) resulted in mass migration to the U.S. mainland; mostly to New York State. Approximately 42,000 Puerto Ricans migrated to the U.S. during the ...
URL: https://guides.loc.gov/latinx-civil-rights/jones-shafroth-act

[Administrative Expansionism, 1947-1960 | Puerto Rico Status Archive Project]
Administrative Autonomy Congress governs territories with organic or territorial acts. In 1900, Congress enacted the Foraker Act and has since governed the island with amendments to this act. Amendments to the Foraker Act progressively granted Puerto Ricans increased administrative control over Puerto Rico’s political institutions and affairs more generally. For example, the Jones Act of ...
URL: https://archive.puerto-rican-studies-initiative.clas.uconn.edu/chapter-four/

[Foraker Act]
The Foraker Act officially called the Organic Act of 1900 and most commonly known by the name of its sponsor, Senator Joseph B. Foraker, (R-Ohio), ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foraker_Act


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jones-Shafroth Act - Wikipedia] ---
The Jones–Shafroth Act (Pub. L. 64–368, 39 Stat. 951, enacted March 2, 1917), officially called the Organic Act of Puerto Rico or the Puerto Rico Federal Relations Act of 1917, is an organic act of the 64th United States Congress that was signed into law by President Woodrow Wilson on March 2, 1917. The Act expanded the civil administration of the insular government of Puerto Rico, which was established under the federal jurisdiction of the United States as the local governance of an unincorporated territory through the Foraker Act of 1900. It served as the primary organic law for the government of Puerto Rico and its relation with the United States until it was superseded by the Constitution of Puerto Rico in 1952 as per the Puerto Rico Federal Relations Act of 1950 and its Pub. L. 82–447  joint resolution. 
Bearing the names of its sponsors, Representative William Atkinson Jones, (D-Virginia), chairman of the House Committee on Insular Affairs, and Senator John Shafroth, (D-Colorado), chairman of the Committee on Pacific Islands and Puerto Rico, the Jones–Shafroth Act, which operated as a de facto constitution, established a bill of rights based on the United States Bill of Rights and granted statutory birthright United States citizenship to anyone born in the archipelago and island on or after April 11, 1899.  
The Act expanded the executive and legislative branches of the insular government of Puerto Rico. It created the executive departments of Justice, Education, Finance, Interior, Labor and Agriculture, and Health, with their heads, the first two appointed by the President of the United States, and the rest appointed by the Governor, who was also appointed by the President, forming an executive council to the Governor. It formed a legislative 19-member Senate elected by the residents of Puerto Rico, and increased the membership and term length of the House of Representatives to 39 popularly elected members serving four-year terms. It also increased to four years the term length of the Resident Commissioner, a non-voting member to the United States House of Representatives elected by the residents of Puerto Rico. Additionally, it exempted Puerto Rican bonds from federal, state, and local taxes regardless of where the bondholder resides. 
The Jones–Shafroth Act provided an advance in local self-government for Puerto Rico. By creating the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico, composed of a popularly elected Senate and House of Representatives, it gave the residents of Puerto Rico control over the legislative branch. However, the President and the United States Congress possessed authorization to veto and annul any law enacted by the Legislative Assembly. While the President retained control of the executive and judicial branches through his authority to appoint the Governor, Attorney General, Commissioner of Education, and Justices of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, an opportunity for participation in the formulation of executive policies was provided to the residents of Puerto Rico by authorizing the Governor to appoint four of six heads of executive departments with the advice and consent of the popularly elected Senate.


--- [Jones-Shafroth Act | Definition, Summary, Significance, History ...] ---
Jones-Shafroth Act - What was the Jones-Shafroth Act? - When was the Jones-Shafroth Act passed, and who did it affect? - What did the Jones-Shafroth Act grant to Puerto Ricans? - How did the Act change the government in Puerto Rico? - Why was U.S. citizenship important for Puerto Ricans in 1917? - What were some limitations or controversies related to the Jones-Shafroth Act? Jones-Shafroth Act, U.S. legislation (March 2, 1917) that granted U.S. citizenship to Puerto Ricans. It also provided Puerto Rico with a bill of rights and restructured its government. The act takes its name from the two legislators who sponsored it, U.S. Representative William Jones of Virginia and U.S. Senator John Shafroth of Colorado. The Spanish-American War, fought in 1898, ended Spanish colonial rule in the Americas, and Puerto Rico and other colonial possessions were ceded to the United States. The Foraker Act, passed by the U.S. Congress in 1900, designated Puerto Rico as an “unorganized territory” of the United States and gave it limited self-government. The act also stated that Puerto Ricans were “entitled to the protection of the United States,” but it did not contain a provision for U.S. citizenship. The United States’ continued control of Puerto Rico proved distasteful to many of the island’s residents, and, as a consequence, the law was subsequently amended to give Puerto Ricans a wider role in government. However, the majority of Puerto Ricans eventually demanded a larger measure of local control and many other changes. The U.S. Congress responded to these pressures by passing the Jones-Shafroth Act, and Pres. Woodrow Wilson signed it into law on March 2, 1917. The act recognized Puerto Rico as an “organized but unincorporated” U.S. territory. In addition to conferring U.S. citizenship collectively on Puerto Ricans, the act included an extensive bill of rights that guaranteed broad protections of civil liberties. The act also separated the territory’s government into executive, judicial, and legislative branches. The one-house 35-seat legislative assembly that had been created by the Foraker Act was replaced with a two-house legislature, which consisted of a 19-member Senate and a 39-member House of Representatives. Both houses were popularly elected. Despite the changes instituted under the Jones-Shafroth Act, Puerto Rico’s political autonomy remained limited in many ways. For instance, key officials, including the territory’s governor, remained presidential appointees and were thus beyond local control. Under the act the governor as well as the U.S. president also retained the right to veto any law passed by the Puerto Rican legislature. In the ensuing years, many provisions of the Jones-Shafroth Act were superseded. Notably, beginning in 1948, Puerto Ricans were allowed to elect their governor. After the island adopted a constitution that established it as a commonwealth in 1952, Puerto Rico gained greater autonomy, resulting in numerous other changes. These included the governor holding sole veto power and the U.S. president losing the ability to appoint any government officials. One of the lasting effects of the Jones-Shafroth Act was the migration of thousands of Puerto Rican residents to the U.S. mainland. Within about two decades of the act’s passage, there were nearly 70,000 Puerto Ricans on the mainland, mostly in or near New York City. By the late 2010s that number had risen to almost 6,000,000 (it included people of Puerto Rican origin).


--- [1917: Jones-Shafroth Act - A Latinx Resource Guide: Civil Rights Cases ...] ---
Have a question? Need assistance? Use our online form to ask a librarian for help. President Woodrow Wilson signed the Jones-Shafroth Act (1917) on March 2, 1917, giving Puerto Ricans U.S. statutory citizenship. This act also separated Puerto Rico’s government into Executive, Judicial, and Legislative branches, and endowed Puerto Ricans with a bill of rights. Additionally, the act established an insular bicameral legislature with 19 elected Senate members and 39 elected House of Representative members. It also stated that Puerto Rico’s Governor and the U.S. Executive branch possessed authorization to veto or override any law enacted by that legislature. Citizenship under the Jones-Shafroth Act (1917) resulted in mass migration to the U.S. mainland; mostly to New York State. Approximately 42,000 Puerto Ricans migrated to the U.S. during the 1920s. Today, Puerto Rico does not have voting representation in Congress, and Puerto Ricans with residency on the island are not eligible to vote in general elections, only in primaries. Those Puerto Ricans living on the U.S. mainland can register to vote in their respective states. The Selective Service Act of 1917 followed the Jones-Shafroth Act (1917). This second act permitted the U.S. to draft soldiers, including Puerto Ricans. Approximately 20,000 Puerto Rican service members served in World War I and 65,000 fought in World War II. | April 21, 1898 | The Spanish American War begins. | |---|---| | December 10, 1898 | The Spanish American War ends and Puerto Rico is ceded to the United States. | | March 2, 1917 | President Woodrow Wilson signs the Jones-Shafroth Act (1917) making Puerto Rico a U.S. territory | | May 18, 1917 | Congress passes the Selective Service Act of 1917, permitting the Puerto Ricans to be drafted into U.S. military service. | The following resources are available online at the Library of Congress. Staff in the Hispanic Reading Room can provide access to these books at the Library of Congress. If you cannot visit the Library in person, please contact us using Ask a Librarian for assistance. In many cases, you can also find these materials at your local library. The following titles link to fuller bibliographic information in the Library of Congress Online Catalog. Links to additional online content are included when available. The following external websites can be useful for expanding your research on the Jones-Shafroth Act of 1917.


--- [Administrative Expansionism, 1947-1960 | Puerto Rico Status Archive Project] ---
Administrative Expansionism 1947-1960 The language and scope of bills introduced during this period suggest that legislation debated during this period was largely, although not exclusively, driven by three major political forces. First, this period marks a moment in time when Congress enacted major legislation granting the residents of Puerto Rico a greater degree of local administrative autonomy without changing Puerto Rico’s political territorial status. This dual approach to ruling Puerto Rico raised significant questions about the nature of the relationship between the federal and local governments. Second, in a post-World War II period, the United States engaged in a Cold War with the Soviet Union and was simultaneously confronted with the prospect of an expanding global society of nations. A third, and key political factor shaping the contours of the federal debates over Puerto Rico’s status was the consolidation of the Popular Democratic Party, which both carried the mantle of the traditional autonomist political party and asserted a hegemonic power over political debates relating to Puerto Rico. Administrative Autonomy Congress governs territories with organic or territorial acts. In 1900, Congress enacted the Foraker Act and has since governed the island with amendments to this act. Amendments to the Foraker Act progressively granted Puerto Ricans increased administrative control over Puerto Rico’s political institutions and affairs more generally. For example, the Jones Act of 1917 granted local electors a right to elect a Senate and provided for collective naturalization of the United States citizenship. Likewise, the Elective Governor Act of 1947 enabled Puerto Rican voters to elect a local governor. More importantly, in 1950, Congress enacted legislation further enabling Puerto Ricans to draft a local constitution to govern the island and subsequently provide for local referendum vote of approval. In 1952, Congress and Puerto Rican electors approved a local Constitution describing Puerto Rico as an “Estado Libre Asociado (ELA)” or a loosely translated as a “Commonwealth.” Although the enactment of the Constitution would subsequently be used to successfully exempt Puerto Rico from the duty to report about the conditions of the territory under the international scope of the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonization, it did not resolve the tensions caused by the Puerto Rican islands’ status within the U.S. Empire. Central to many of these controversies were a tension between the legal language used to describe the ensuing political relationship between Puerto Rico and the U.S., namely the use of the terms “compact,” “ELA,” and “Commonwealth,” which suggested that Puerto Rico became a non-sovereign entity and the legislative history of the legislation, which argued that Puerto Rico remained an unincorporated territory. The remaining provisions of the Foraker Act of 1900 became the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act, the current organic act regulating the relationship between the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The Cold War and Global Propaganda Following World War II, the United States entered a Cold War relationship with the Soviet Union that would last until 1989, when the Soviet Union imploded. Depending on how one studies this question, some scholars argue that the United States formally entered the Cold War in 1950, a pivotal year shaping the relationship between the federal and Puerto Rican governments. Central to the U.S. during this period, was an effort to counter Soviet propaganda denouncing U.S. global imperialism and its efforts to exert global hegemony. In many ways, the political status legislation introduced and enacted during this period was shaped by U.S. efforts to counter prevailing anti-U.S. propaganda. Granting Puerto Rico more administrative autonomy over its local affairs, enabled the U.S. government to eschew claims that it ruled Puerto Rico as a colony. Political Parties and Ideologies in Puerto Rico It is important to emphasize that throughout this period, the Partido Popular Democratico (PPD) exerted a hegemonic power over the island’s political landscape. In many ways, the PPD defined the contours of political and status debates during this period. Congress and the Question of Puerto Rico’s Political Status 80th Congress (1947-1948) Four bills were introduced in the 80th Congress. All of the bills included a provision for independence, S. 1158, H.R. 4404, H.R. 7111, and H.R. 7136. The 80th Congress did not enact any status changing legislation for Puerto Rico. See 80th Bills81st Congress (1949-1950) Six bills were introduced in the 81st Congress. Three of the bills were status legislation, of which two, S. 787, and H.R. 7746 included a provision for independence. The remaining status legislation, H.R. 9247, included a provision for statehood. Two bills, Pub. L. 81-600 and S. 3336 included referendum legislation with a provision for a Commonwealth status. The sixth bill, H.R. 7674 was a congressional enactment with a Commonwealth provision. See 81st Bills82nd Congress (1951-1952) Four bills were introduced in the 82nd Congress. Three of the bills, S.J. Res 151, H.J. Res 430, and Pub. L. 447, were referendum legislation giving electors a choice on whether to affirm a Puerto Rican Constitution. The remaining bill, H.R. 1937 provided for a local plebiscite with different status options. See 82nd Bills83rd Congress (1953-1954) Only one bill was introduced in the 83rd Congress. The bill, H. Res 455 provided for a referendum on independence. The 83rd Congress did not enact any status changing legislation for Puerto Rico. See 83rd Bills86th Congress (1959-1960) Eight bills were introduced during the 86th Congress. Two bills were status legislation, H.R. 1968, contained a provision for independence and the other, H.R. 7003, a provision for statehood. Four bills, H.R. 5926, S.2023, H.R. 9234, and S. 2708 sought to amend the 1952 Constitution by enhancing the “compact” theory. These four bills also affirmed the Commonwealth status. The two remaining bills, S.2396 and H.R. 10266 provided for local referendums on statehood. The 86th Congress did not enact any status changing legislation for Puerto Rico. See 86th Bills


--- [Foraker Act] ---
The Foraker Act (Pub. L. 56–191, 31 Stat. 77, enacted April 12, 1900), officially called the Organic Act of 1900 and most commonly known by the name of its sponsor, Senator Joseph B. Foraker, (R-Ohio), is an organic act of the 56th United States Congress that was signed into law by President William McKinley on April 12, 1900, to take effect May 1, 1900. The Act replaced the military government of Puerto Rico, which was established by the United States after the annexation of the archipelago and island during the Spanish–American War in 1898, with a civil insular government under the continued federal jurisdiction of the United States as the local administration of an unincorporated territory. It served as the primary organic law for the government of Puerto Rico and its relation with the United States until it was superseded by the Jones–Shafroth Act of 1917. 
The Foraker Act established a civil government in Puerto Rico modeled after the federal government of the United States. It divided the local government of the unincorporated territory into three branches: an executive, consisting of a Governor and an 11-member Executive Council appointed by the President of the United States, a legislative, composed of bicameral Legislative Assembly, with the Executive Council as its upper chamber and a 35-member House of Delegates elected by the residents of Puerto Rico as its lower chamber, and a judicial, headed by a chief justice and a district judge appointed by the President. The Act created the office of Resident Commissioner, a non-voting member to the United States House of Representatives elected by the residents of Puerto Rico. It also established Puerto Rican citizenship and extended American nationality to Puerto Ricans.
The Foraker Act extended some measure of local self-government to Puerto Rico with the creation of a popularly elected lower chamber of the legislative branch, but the preponderant control of the local government of Puerto Rico was retained by the United States through the authority of the President to appoint the entire executive branch and half of the legislative branch, and the power of the United States Congress to annul any law  enacted by the legislative branch. However, the residents of Puerto Rico had some opportunity to influence executive policies through the five appointed members of the Executive Council who were required to be native Puerto Ricans by the Act.
