=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[IFT Industrial Scientist Award - Wikipedia]
The IFT Industrial Scientist Award was awarded by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) for scientists who made significant technical contributions to advancing the food industry. It was first awarded in 1994, but was not necessarily awarded every year. In 2019, the IFT reorganized its awards program, and no longer offered this award. [1] Award winners received a USD 3000 honorarium and a ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IFT_Industrial_Scientist_Award

[Food Technology Industrial Achievement Award - IFT.org]
IFT FIRSTFind a JobIFT MarketplaceIFT Member ConnectDONATE · Purpose: To honor an IFT-member industrial scientist or team of industrial scientist(s) who have made a major technical contribution or significant advancement in the application of food science and technology. Award: $3,000 honorarium ...
URL: https://www.ift.org/community/awards-and-recognition/achievement-awards/food-technology-industrial-award

[Institute of Food Technologists - Wikipedia]
Stephen S. Chang Award for Lipid or Flavor Science (1993) – For contribution in lipid and flavor science. IFT Industrial Scientist Award (1994) – For technical contributions that advances the food industry.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institute_of_Food_Technologists

[Achievement Awards - IFT.org]
Achievements in Microbial Research ... of food safety assurance. Collaborative Research Grant in honor of Marcel Loncin The prize, given every other year, was first awarded in 1994. To honor and provide research funding for an IFT member or nonmember scientist or engineer ...
URL: https://www.ift.org/community/awards-and-recognition/achievement-awards

[IFT Industrial Scientist Award - Academic Dictionaries and ...]
The IFT Industrial Scientist Award has been awarded every year since 1994. It is awarded by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) for scientists who made technical contributions to advancing the food industry.Award winners receive a USD 3000…
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/3863886


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [IFT Industrial Scientist Award - Wikipedia] ---
The IFT Industrial Scientist Award was awarded by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) for scientists who made significant technical contributions to advancing the food industry. It was first awarded in 1994, but was not necessarily awarded every year. In 2019, the IFT reorganized its awards program, and no longer offered this award.
Award winners received a USD 3000 honorarium and a plaque from IFT.


--- [Food Technology Industrial Achievement Award - IFT.org] ---
Food Technology Industrial Achievement Award Food Technology Industrial Achievement Award Purpose: To honor an IFT-member industrial scientist or team of industrial scientist(s) who have made a major technical contribution or significant advancement in the application of food science and technology. Award: $3,000 honorarium and a plaque from IFT (if a team wins each member of the team will receive a plaque and an equal share of the $3,000) Eligibility: The nominee(s) must have made one or more major technical contributions to the advancement of the food industry while a member of an industrial food organization. The development must have been successfully applied in actual commercial operation at least six months but no more than seven years before December 15 of the year in which the nomination is submitted. Nominees' contribution must have had a significant, measurable impact in areas such as production; development of new products, processes, or packaging systems; improvement of food safety and nutrition, etc. Part of this success is the direct benefit of the scientists' contribution to consumers and to the profession of food science and technology. Food research in industry is generally a team approach, making it difficult to assign credit for an outstanding technical accomplishment to one person or a small group. Nevertheless, if a team nomination is submitted, the nomination should identify the IFT member most responsible for making the project(s) a success along with the role of each team member. All team members must be IFT Members and limited to a maximum of 5. Special Instructions Please submit the following documents with your nomination: | 2020: John I. Haas Company 2019: No Recipient 2018: No Recipient 2017: Christopher Doona 2016: PepsiCo Inc. (SoluOats) 2016: Chris Koh* 2015: Aseptia Inc. & North Carolina State University Department of Food, Bioprocessing and Nutrition Sciences 2015: Pablo Coronel* 2014: Buhler Barth GMBH 2013: Mars Inc. 2012: Tate & Lyle 2011: MicroThermics, Laboratory-scaled UHT/HTST Direct-Indirect Process System (DIP) with Full Automation 2010: ConAgra Foods 2009: North Carolina State University, USDA–ARS South Atlantic Area Food Science Research Unit, Industrial Microwave Systems, LLC 2009: Kyungsoo Woo* 2008: Praxair, Inc. (Controlled Atmosphere System) 2007: Diversified Technologies Incorporated and The Genesis Juice Corporation 2006: Praxair, Inc. (NatureWash™ Ozonated Water Wash and Dry System) 2006: Jairus R. David* 2005: Snow Brand Milk Products Co. Ltd. (Milk Basic Protein) 2005: Mohan Rao* 2004: Tetra Pak, Tetra Recart AB retortable carton packaging system 2004: Gilbert A. Leveille* 2003: National Starch and Chemical Company: NOVELOSE RS2 Resistant Starches 2003: Raymond A. Bourque* 2002: Avure Technologies Incorp.: High Hydrostatic Pressure Processing Technology 2002: Laurence Bell* 2001: Calpis Co. Ltd.: AMEEL-S Functional Fermented Milk Beverage 2001: Richard R. Perdue* 2000: Taiyo Kagaku Co., Ltd.: SUNPHENON CDF-1 Decaf Green Tea Polyphenols 2000: George E. Inglett* 1999: McNeil Specialty Products Co.: SUCRALOSE – Low-Calorie Sweetener 1999: Harry Levine and Louise Slade* 1998: National Starch and Chemical Co.: NOVATION – Functional Native Starches 1998: Norman S. Singer* 1997: Qualicon™ DuPont Subsidiary: For the development of RiboPrinter™ Microbial Characterization System | 1997: R.B. Sleeth* 1996: APV UK plc and EA Technology Ltd: For the APV Ohmic Heating Process 1996: David P. Bone* 1995: No Recipient 1994: North Carolina State University (Dept. of Food Science) and Michael Foods, Inc.: For the development of extended-shelf-life, ultra-pasteurized liquid whole-egg products 1994: Aaron Brody* 1993: Kelco Division of Merck & Co., Inc.–Gellan Gum: Kelco is the researcher and developer of KELCOGEL gellan gum, amulti-functional gelling agent for use in foods, personal care products, and industrial applications 1992: Auburn University: Has developed a low-fat ground beef with less than 10% fat, but with desired sensory qualities, by replacing excess fat with food gums, water, and flavor enhancers 1991: No Recipient 1990: No Recipient 1989: No Recipient 1988: No Recipient 1987: Eastern Regional Research Center, USDA/ARS and Lactaid, Inc.: Enzyme that reduces lactose into simpler sugars so that milk products can be ingested by lactose-intolerant individuals 1986: No Recipient 1985: G.D. Searle Co.: Aspartame low-calorie sweetener 1984: Research Branch of Agriculture Canada and ABCO Industries Ltd.: Blancher/cooker that introduces the “individual quick blanching” concept to vegetable processing 1983: Fundacion de Estudios Alimentarios y Nutricionales and Productos Alimentos Delicias: Soy-oats infant formula designed to combat malnutrition in Mexico 1982: Oregon State University and Galloway West Co.: Bulk starter medium that improves growth of starter cultures for cheesemaking 1981: No Recipient 1980: General Mills, Inc.: Packaging system that protects and extends the shelf life of hydroponically grown produce 1979: Grumman Corp. and Armour Research Center of Armour & Co.: Hypobaric transportation and storage system that extends by up to six times the storage life of fresh meats and other commodities 1978: U.S. Army Natick R&D Command, Continental Flexible Packaging, and Reynolds Metals Co.: Retort pouch, a flexible laminated package that can withstand thermal processing and combines the advantages of the metal can and the boil-in bag 1977: Mississippi State University and Dacus Packaging Corp.: Development and commercialization of canned catfish | 1976: Bishopric Products Co. and Purdue University: Aseptic bulk storage and transportation of partially processed foods 1975: Clinton Corn Processing Co., Div. of Standard Brands, Inc.: Production of high-fructose corn syrup using immobilized enzyme technology 1974: Kelco Co. and Northern Regional Research Laboratory, USDA/ARS: Xanthan gum, a microbial polysaccharide with thickening, suspending, emulsifying, and stabilizing properties 1973: Armour Food Co., Food Research Div.: Portable electronic instrument that nondestructively tests a raw carcass and predicts its tenderness after cooking 1972: Western Regional Research Laboratory, USDA/ARS: Dry caustic process for peeling of fruits and vegetables that reduces pollution and water usage 1971: Central Food Technological Research Institute: Peanut-protein-fortified (“toned”) milk drink that expands the supply of milk in India 1970: General Foods Corp.: Freeze-thaw-stable, nondairy whipped emulsion resembling whipped cream in appearance, utility, texture, and flavor 1969: Thomas J. Lipton, Inc.: Air-dried meat bits, granules, and strips composed of meat or poultry solids and soy protein isolate 1968: Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc.: Oil-soluble suspensions and water-dispersible beadlets of synthetic carotenoid food colors 1967: Foremost Dairies: Dough developers containing cysteine and whey solids that eliminate fermentation or sponge steps in bread-making 1966: Swift & Co. and Trenton Foods, Inc.: Canning process conducted under pressure to shorten processing time and improve the quality of foods packed in institutional-size cans 1965: C.J. Patterson Co.: Calcium stearoyl-2-lactylate bread dough strengthener 1964: Whirlpool Corp.: Controlled atmosphere storage of produce 1963: Swift & Co.: Electrocoagulation method for continuous processing of frankfurters 1962: Sunkist Growers, Inc.: Encapsulated citrus oil 1961: Swift & Co.: Process utilizing injection of papain into cattle before slaughter to increase tenderness of beef carcasses 1960: Merck & Co. and American Meat Institute Foundation: Pediococcus cerevisiae starter culture for controlled fermentation of sausage 1959: Eastern Utilization R&D Division, USDA/ARS: Process for manufacturing instant potato flakes | * Recipient of the Industrial Scientist Award


--- [Institute of Food Technologists - Wikipedia] ---
The Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) is an international, non-profit scientific society of professionals engaged in food science, food technology, and related areas in academia, government and industry. It has more than 17,000 members from more than 95 countries.


--- [Achievement Awards - IFT.org] ---
Achievement Awards Achievement Awards Humanitarian Award for Service to the Science of Food in honor of Elizabeth Fleming Stier Purnendu C. Vasavada, PhD Purnendu Vasavada is Professor Emeritus of Food Science at the University of Wisconsin–River Falls and managing member of PCV & Associates, LLC. He is an internationally recognized leader in food safety and microbiology, including rapid methods and automation. After retiring from UW–River Falls, he served as an FDA-ORISE Fellow and played a pivotal role in establishing the Food Safety Preventive Controls Alliance (FSPCA). He has authored over 100 publications and received numerous awards including the NSF Food Safety Leadership Award (2016), GMA Food Safety Award (2012), and fellowships from IFT (2009), IAFP (2010), and IAFoST (2016). He also received the Carl R. Fellers Phi Tau Sigma/IFT Distinguished Career Award in 2022 and continues to provide leadership through education and training programs globally. Outstanding Partnership Award in honor of Myron Solberg Robert Gravani, PhD, CFS Robert Gravani is Professor Emeritus of Food Science at Cornell University, where he was actively engaged in extension, outreach, teaching, and research. A graduate of Rutgers University (B.S.) and Cornell University (M.S., Ph.D.), Bob credits his early mentors—including Drs. Elizabeth Stier, Myron Solberg, and Robert Baker—with inspiring his lifelong dedication to food safety education. Known for building strong partnerships across academia, government, NGOs, and the food industry, he helped lead collaborative efforts such as a 30+ year partnership with a state regulatory agency and the development of the National Good Agricultural Practices program with colleagues from 26 Land Grant Institutions. A Past President, Past Treasurer, and Fellow of IFT, Bob has received numerous awards recognizing his contributions to teaching, outreach, and the profession. Distinguished Career Award in honor of Carl R. Fellers Martha Cassens, M.S. Martha Cassens, M.S., is Vice President of Product Innovation, Development, and Quality at ACH Food Companies. With deep expertise in food research, quality assurance, and packaging development, Martha has led the creation of more than 400 innovative food products. Her work includes pioneering the use of carrageenan as a fat replacer in deli meat, extending the shelf life of healthy tray-packed ground beef, and developing top-selling products like Jimmy Dean Delights Sandwiches. She also holds 11 patents and has driven up to $35 million in annual cost savings for her employers. A Fellow of IFT, she has received several prestigious honors, including the American Meat Science Association Distinguished Achievement Award and the IFT Meat Processing Award. Excellence in Education Award in honor of William V. Cruess Kanika Bhargava, PhD, CFS Kanika Bhargava is a professor at the University of Central Oklahoma (UCO), where she founded the graduate Food Science program and built a food science specialization that now serves approximately 150 students. She holds a Ph.D. in Nutrition and Food Science from Wayne State University and has expertise in food safety, processing, and preservation. Dr. Bhargava has led multiple USDA and NIH-funded research initiatives and created a fully online graduate certificate in food safety and quality management. An active member of IFT, she serves as Chair of the Quality Assurance Division and the Oklahoma Section, and as a CFS Commissioner. She is also a dedicated mentor, advisor to IFTSA-UCO, and a lifetime member of Phi Tau Sigma. Inspired by her family, she leads with heart, balancing her roles as a mother, educator, and researcher. Sensory & Consumer Sciences Achievement Award David Lundahl, PhD David Lundahl is CEO and Founder of InsightsNow, Inc. and an industry leader in sensory and consumer science. He holds an M.S. in Statistics and a Ph.D. in Food Science and Technology from Oregon State University. His career spans academia and industry, including roles at Frito-Lay, Brown-Forman, and as Associate Professor at OSU. Dave is a published author of the book Breakthrough Food Product Innovation Through Emotions Research and numerous journal articles, and he is a frequent speaker at conferences such as IFT FIRST and Pangborn. A former Chair of IFT’s Sensory & Consumer Science Division, he has pioneered behavioral research methods and clean label design approaches that continue to shape product development and innovation strategies. International Food Security Award in honor of Bor S. Luh Kasiviswanathan Muthukumarappan, PhD Kasiviswanathan Muthukumarappan, Distinguished Professor and Klingbeil Endowed Department Head of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering at South Dakota State University, is an international leader in food and bioprocess engineering. He has led more than $20 million in research projects and mentored over 85 undergraduate and graduate students. With over 250 peer-reviewed publications and more than 350 presentations globally, his work has advanced national and international food processing standards. Dr. Muthukumarappan has held leadership roles across IFT Sections and Divisions, contributed to multiple ASABE standards, and currently serves as Energy Systems Community Editor for the Journal of the ASABE. His many accolades include the 2025 IFT International Food Security Award, 2012 ASABE Fellow Award, and multiple distinguished faculty awards from SDSU. Lifetime Achievement Award in honor of Nicolas Appert Levente Diosady, PhD, P.Eng. Levente L. Diosady is Professor Emeritus of Food Engineering in the Department of Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry at University of Toronto. His current research interests include food fortification, oilseed, and protein processing. He is the author of over 250 refereed publications and holds 22 patents. He has supervised more than 100 graduate students, 17 of whom are now professors across four continents. Dr. Diosady led the development of technology for fortifying salt with iron and iodine to prevent micronutrient deficiency diseases affecting more than two billion people. In a large-scale pilot study in India, approximately 60 million consumers received double-fortified salt for 18 months, resulting in a 20% increase in the iron status of women. Salt fortified with iron, zinc, iodine, and B vitamins—shown to reduce birth defects—has also been successfully tested in Tanzania and India. He is a Fellow of seven scientific societies and the recipient of numerous honors, including the Babcock-Hart Award, the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee Medal, and the Officer’s Cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit. He is a member of the Order of Ontario and was appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2019, the nation’s highest civilian honor. Outstanding Young Scientist Award in honor of Samuel Cate Prescott Prateek Sharma, PhD Prateek Sharma is an Associate Professor of Dairy Technology and Director of the Western Dairy Center in the Department of Nutrition, Dietetics, and Food Sciences at Utah State University. He earned his Ph.D. in Food Technology from the Riddet Institute, Massey University (New Zealand), and a master’s degree from Technical University Dublin (Ireland). Dr. Sharma is an experienced dairy foods scientist with more than 17 years of research experience across commercial and institutional R&D environments. His work spans multinational settings including Ireland, New Zealand, and India, covering product portfolios such as cheese, whey ingredients, UHT products, and liquid emulsions. At Utah State, he established a robust research program focused on the material and rheological properties of dairy foods, structure-function relationships in cheese and powders, and advanced analytical techniques. He is a recipient of multiple prestigious awards, including the ADSA Foundation Scholar Award, Marie-Curie Career-FIT Fellowship, Erasmus Mundus Scholarship, and the William C. Winder and Rebecca Steward Winder Professorship Award. Dr. Sharma also serves on several scientific committees for IFT and ADSA. Achievements in Microbial Research for Food Safety in honor of Gerhard J. Haas Meijun Zhu, PhD Meijun Zhu is a Professor of Food Safety in the School of Food Science at Washington State University. She holds a Doctor of Science in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology from China Agricultural University and a Ph.D. in Meat Science and Food Microbiology from Iowa State University. Dr. Zhu integrates traditional and next-generation technologies to address urgent food safety challenges, with her research primarily focused on controlling foodborne pathogens such as Listeria monocytogenes and Salmonella throughout the food production and processing chain. She collaborates closely with the fresh produce industry to advance the application of innovative pathogen control technologies. Her team’s research has contributed significantly to both industry practices and public health. She currently serves as a Subject Matter Expert for the U.S. Apple Association. Her program is funded by USDA, NIH, national produce safety initiatives, and industry partners. Dr. Zhu has published over 300 peer-reviewed papers and serves on editorial boards of several international scientific journals. Research & Development Award Fidel Toldrá, PhD Fidel Toldrá is a Research Professor at the Instituto de Agroquímica y Tecnología de Alimentos (CSIC) in Valencia, Spain. His research centers on food chemistry and sustainable food processing. He served for 13 years on the Scientific Panels of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), where he chaired working groups on irradiation, processing aids, and enzymes. He has also contributed to FAO/WHO expert panels assessing chlorine-based disinfectants in food. Dr. Toldrá currently serves as Editor-in-Chief of Trends in Food Science & Technology and Editor of the Advances in Food & Nutrition Research book series. He is a Fellow of IFT, the International Academy of Food Science and Technology, the Agricultural & Food Chemistry Division of the American Chemical Society (ACS), and the International Association of Advanced Materials. His accolades include the International Prize for Meat Science and Technology, DuPont Science Award, Distinguished Research Award, Meat Processing Award, and the Award on Advancement of Application of Agricultural and Food Chemistry from ACS. Distinguished Service Award in honor of Calvert L. Willey Mark Barenie, CPA, CAE Mark Barenie, CPA, CAE, graduated from Indiana University’s Kelley School of Business. Mark has been with the IFT Finance team for 32 years and his current position is Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer. During Mark’s career at IFT he has held many financial positions. Some highlights include reserve funds growing from $10M to $44M; assets grew from $15M to $55M and the operating budget grew from $10M to $28M. Over Mark’s career IFT has had 32 years of clean, unqualified opinions from annual outside audits. During the pandemic Mark played an integral role in maintaining IFT’s financial strength. Through Mark’s leadership IFT was able to secure insurance proceeds of $17M and an additional $4.3M in government grants and related credits. This resulted in an increase in IFT reserves of over $21M over a 3-year period. Mark will be retiring from IFT this summer and has thoroughly enjoyed working with IFT volunteers and staff over his entire career. Mark plans to spend more time with his family along with playing competitive golf and pickleball for many years to come. The IFT Achievement Awards recognize individuals and organizations in a variety of areas of the science of food, including lifetime achievement, advocacy, research and development, innovation, international support for developing countries. Select the category that interests you to find specific information about each award, including the individual award's criteria and eligibility requirements. Lifetime Achievement Award in honor of Nicolas Appert Honors an individual who has demonstrated lifetime contributions to the science of food. Distinguished Career Award in honor of Carl R. Fellers, PhD Honors an individual who has brought distinguished recognition to the science of food profession through a career of exemplary contributions in innovation (research/industrial/other), leadership, service, and/or communication to the profession. Excellence in Education Award in honor of William V. Cruess Honors an individual who has demonstrated excellence in teaching science of food disciplines. Outstanding Partnership Award in honor of Myron Solberg Honors an individual who has demonstrated excellence and leadership abilities leading to the successful development or sustenance of a cooperative organization. Presented in odd years only. Include Award in honor of George Washington Carver Honors the work of an individual or team to advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging within the science of food community. This award underscores IFT's commitment to amplifying the voices and efforts of those who are actively working to remove obstacles and create welcoming spaces for all, both within the organization and the broader science of food community, aligning with IFT’s goal of making a positive impact on the global food system. Honors an individual who has provided consistent and meritorious service to IFT or IFT-affiliated group(s) including, but not limited to, IFT Sections & Divisions. Humanitarian Award for Service to the Science of Food in honor of Elizabeth Fleming Stier A humanitarian works selflessly to better the world and human condition. This award honors an individual who has demonstrated the pursuit of humanitarian ideals and unselfish dedication to the food industry, academia, students, and/or the general public. Presented in odd years only. Achievements in Microbial Research for Food Safety in honor of Gerhard J. Haas Honors an individual who has demonstrated innovative research in microbial aspects of food safety assurance. Collaborative Research Grant in honor of Marcel Loncin The prize, given every other year, was first awarded in 1994. To honor and provide research funding for an IFT member or nonmember scientist or engineer conducting basic chemistry/physics/engineering research applied to food processing and improvement of food quality. Prize money is to be used by the recipient in directing and carrying out a proposed research project, and to allow a successful scientist to help a young scientist(s) to also become successful. Presented in even years only. Distinguished Lipid and Flavor Science Award in honor of Stephen S. Chang Honors an individual who has provided innovative contributions to the advancement of lipid or flavor science and technology. Presented in even years only. Food Ingredient Safety Award in honor of Bernard L. Oser Honors an individual who has provided contributions to the scientific knowledge of food ingredient safety and/or the implementation of programs to improve the safety or regulation of food ingredients. Presented in even years only. Food Packaging Award in honor of Don Riester, Rees Davis, and Aaron Brody Honors an individual who has provided lifetime contributions to innovation in food packaging technology. International Food Security Award in honor of Bor S. Luh Honors an individual or team whose research has made substantial advancements in how foods can be manufactured and made available to meet the nutritional needs and food preferences of people living in emerging economies in a manner that is cost-effective for both consumers and manufacturers. Outstanding Young Scientist Award in honor of Samuel Cate Prescott Honors an individual who has provided significant, early-career research contributions that advance the science of food. Public Health Award in honor of Babcock-Hart & Gilbert A. Leveille Honors an individual who has provided scientific and technological contributions to improve public health through better nutrition and/or a more nutritious food supply. Research & Development Award Honors individual or team accomplishments in research and development. Sensory and Consumer Sciences Achievement Award Honors an individual who has demonstrated distinguished leadership and research within the field of sensory and consumer sciences.


--- [IFT Industrial Scientist Award - Academic Dictionaries and ...] ---
IFT Industrial Scientist Award - IFT Industrial Scientist Award The IFT Industrial Scientist Award has been awarded every year since 1994. It is awarded by the Institute of Food Technologists (IFT) for scientists who made technical contributions to advancing the food industry. Award winners receive a USD 3000 honorarium and a plaque from IFT. Winners References * [http://members.ift.org/IFT/Awards/AchievmentAwards/AwardWinners/pastawardwinners.htm List of past winners] - Official site Wikimedia Foundation. 2010. Look at other dictionaries: Institute of Food Technologists — Infobox Company company name = Institute of Food Technologists company company type = non profit foundation = 1939 location = flagicon|USA Chicago, Illinois, USA homepage = [http://www.ift.org/cms Official website] The Institute of Food… … Wikipedia Philip E. Nelson — (born 1934 [ [http://www.worldfoodprize.org/assets/laureates/2007/2007%20WFP%20Laureate.pdf The Word Food Prize] ] ) is an American food scientist who is best known for his work in bulk aseptic processing and packaging of food and the use of… … Wikipedia Samuel Cate Prescott — Infobox Scientist name = Samuel Cate Prescott birth date = birth date|1872|4|5|mf=y birth place = South Hampton, New Hampshire, United States of America death date = death date and age|1962|3|19|1872|4|5|mf=y death place = Cambridge,… … Wikipedia Samuel Abraham Goldblith — (May 5, 1919 ndash;December 28, 2001) was an American food scientist. While involved in World War II, he studied malnutrition, and later was involved in food research important for space exploration.Early lifeA native of Lawrence, Massachusetts,… … Wikipedia George F. Stewart — (February 22, 1908 March 18, 1982) was an American food scientist who was involved in processing, preservation, chemistry, and microbiology of poultry and egg based food products. He also became the first president of the International Union of… … Wikipedia Marcel Loncin — (May 20, 1920 1995) was a Belgian born, French chemical engineer who was involved in food engineering throughout his career. Contents 1 Education 2 Work experience and research 3 Involvement with the Institute of … Wikipedia Fred C. Blanck — Infobox Scientist name = Fred C. Blanck image width = caption = birth date = birth date|1881|10|14|mf=y birth place = death date = 1965 death place = residence = citizenship = nationality = ethnicity = field = Food Science work institution = H.J … Wikipedia Department of Food Science, University of Massachusetts — What is now the Department of Food Science at the University of Massachusetts was officially started on April 27, 1918. This preceded all other Food Science departments in the United States by over a year; the next closest being the Oregon State… … Wikipedia X-ray computed tomography — For non medical computed tomography, see Industrial CT Scanning. catSCAN redirects here. For the Transformers character, see Transformers: Universe. X ray computed tomography Intervention A patient is receiving a CT scan for cancer. Outsid … Wikipedia
