=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters) | Data]
Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters) from The World Bank: Data. ... Browse World Development Indicators byCountryorIndicator.
URL: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/ER.H2O.INTR.PC

[ACCORDING Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of ACCORD is to grant or give especially as appropriate, due, or earned. How to use accord in a sentence. Did you know? Synonym Discussion of Accord.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/according

[Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters)]
Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters) - India from The World Bank: Data.
URL: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/ER.H2O.INTR.PC?locations=IN

[ACCORDING | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
Phrasal verb accord with something (Definition of according from the Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press)
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/according

[According - definition of according by The Free Dictionary]
To give or grant, especially as being due or appropriate: accorded the president the proper deference.
URL: https://www.thefreedictionary.com/according


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters) | Data] ---
Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters) AQUASTAT - FAO's Global Information System on Water and Agriculture, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ( FAO ), uri: data.apps.fao.org/aquastat, publisher: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ( FAO ), date accessed: 20240529


--- [ACCORDING Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
accorded; according; accords 1 : to grant or give especially as appropriate, due, or earned The competitors should all be accorded equal respect. 2 : to bring into agreement : reconcile 1 : to be consistent or in harmony : agree —usually used with with a theory that accords with the known facts 2 archaic : to arrive at an agreement 3 obsolete : to give consent 1 a : agreement, conformity acted in accord with the company's policy 2 : voluntary or spontaneous impulse to act gave generously of their own accord 3 : balanced interrelationship : harmony 4 obsolete : assent Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters)] ---
Renewable internal freshwater resources per capita (cubic meters) - India AQUASTAT - FAO's Global Information System on Water and Agriculture, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ( FAO ), uri: data.apps.fao.org/aquastat, publisher: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ( FAO ), date accessed: 20240529


--- [ACCORDING | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
according In English, many past and present participles of verbs can be used as adjectives. Some of these examples may show the adjective use. For orders not pre-paid, postage and packing will be charged according to the weight of the book. Cost utility analysis permits the cost of treatment to be considered according to the amount of benefit afforded to the patients. The phonetic analysis further bolstered the hypothesis that he added -ed endings according to a pseudo-suffixation strategy. According to this definition - ideology-as-shorthand - it should have been no more difficult to assess a party's positions than to formulate one's own ideology. The probabilistic model ranks documents according to their probability of being relevant to a query - the ordering principle. According to this hypothesis, neither random errors nor morphologically and syntactically more complex structures would be expected. The hunter selects a velocity uniformly at random between 0 and 1 and proceeds in a clockwise direction according to this velocity. According to this report, although most married couples sired approximately six to seven children, only one or two survived. We can chop timber according to our needs. In a second step, codification tables were created and material was organized according to these themes. While the volume is not organized according to themes, a number of themes emerge. Data were categorized according to the themes included in the questionnaire and the interviews. The response variability of the simulated spike trains generated according to this model was then calculated in the same way as for the real data. Figure 2 shows the excitation trajectories optimized under constraints according to the criterion based on the determinant of the covariance matrix. The number of visits is given according to the abundance of trees, infested trees and mistletoes. These examples are from corpora and from sources on the web. Any opinions in the examples do not represent the opinion of the Cambridge Dictionary editors or of Cambridge University Press or its licensors.


--- [According - definition of according by The Free Dictionary] ---
according Also found in: Thesaurus, Medical, Legal, Acronyms, Idioms. ac·cord (ə-kôrd′)v. ac·cord·ed, ac·cord·ing, ac·cords v.tr. 1. To give or grant, especially as being due or appropriate: accorded the president the proper deference. 2. Archaic To cause to conform or agree; bring into harmony. v.intr. To be in agreement, unity, or harmony. See Synonyms at correspond. n. 1. Agreement; harmony: act in accord with university policies. 2. A settlement or compromise between conflicting parties: The strikers and the owners reached an accord. 3. Spontaneous or voluntary desire to take a certain action: The children returned on their own accord. He confessed of his own accord. [Middle English accorden, from Old French acorder, from Medieval Latin accordāre, to bring into agreement : Latin ad-, ad- + Latin cor, cord-, heart; see kerd- in Indo-European roots.] ac·cord′er n. American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Copyright © 2016 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved. according (əˈkɔːdɪŋ)adj 1. (foll by to) in proportion; in relation: salary will be according to age and experience. 2. (foll by to) on the report (of); as stated (by) 3. (foll by to) in conformity (with); in accordance (with): everything went according to plan. 4. (foll by as) depending (on whether) 5. not standard dependent on: it's all according where you want to go. Collins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 2014 © HarperCollins Publishers 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2014 ThesaurusAntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend: Switch to new thesaurus | Adj. | 1. | according - (followed by `to') in agreement with or accordant with; "according to instructions" accordant - being in agreement or harmony; often followed by `with'; "a place perfectly accordant with man's nature"-Thomas Hardy | | 2. | according - (followed by `to') as reported or stated by; "according to historians" reported - made known or told about; especially presented in a formal account; "his reported opinion"; "the reported findings" | Based on WordNet 3.0, Farlex clipart collection. © 2003-2012 Princeton University, Farlex Inc. according adjective according to 1. as claimed by, in the opinion of, on the authority of, as stated by, as believed by, on the report of, as maintained by According to local gossip they haven't been in touch for years. 2. in keeping with, in line with, consistent with, in accordance with, in the manner of, in harmony with, in agreement with, in concert with, in sympathy with, in compliance with, in conformity with, in obedience to, after the manner of, in assent with, in congruence with They played according to the rules. 3. in relation to, depending on, in proportion to, proportional to, commensurate with Prices vary according to the quantity ordered. Collins Thesaurus of the English Language – Complete and Unabridged 2nd Edition. 2002 © HarperCollins Publishers 1995, 2002 Translations according [əˈkɔːdɪŋ] ADV1. according to → según; (= in accordance with) → conforme a, de acuerdo con according to him → según él ... according to what he told me → según me dijo it went according to plan → salió conforme a or de acuerdo con nuestros planes classified according to size → clasificado por or según tamaños to play the game according to the rules → jugar siguiendo las reglas according to him → según él ... according to what he told me → según me dijo it went according to plan → salió conforme a or de acuerdo con nuestros planes classified according to size → clasificado por or según tamaños to play the game according to the rules → jugar siguiendo las reglas 2. according as → según que, a medida que Collins Spanish Dictionary - Complete and Unabridged 8th Edition 2005 © William Collins Sons & Co. Ltd. 1971, 1988 © HarperCollins Publishers 1992, 1993, 1996, 1997, 2000, 2003, 2005 according [əˈkɔːdɪŋ] prep according to → secondo, stando aaccording to him → secondo lui according to what he says → stando a quanto dice they will be punished according to the seriousness of their crimes → saranno puniti a seconda della gravità dei loro delitti it went according to plan → è andata secondo quanto previsto Collins Italian Dictionary 1st Edition © HarperCollins Publishers 1995
