=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Royal Beekeeper Had to Inform Queen Elizabeth's Bees of Her Death]
Sep 14, 2022 · Royal beekeeper John Chapple told the bees at Buckingham Palace and Clarence House about Queen Elizabeth's death is a tradition dating back centuries
URL: https://people.com/royals/royal-beekeeper-informed-queen-elizabeth-bees-death/

[Queen Elizabeth II's bees informed of her death, as part of a long-standing ...]
Sep 14, 2022 · The superstitious and somewhat cute tradition of 'telling the bees' of a death in the family has been part of rural British folklore for centuries. It was no different for the death of Britain's ...
URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-09-14/why-royal-beekeeper-tells-bees-queen-died/101439526

[Royal beekeeper informs Buckingham Palace bees that the Queen has died]
Sep 10, 2022 · The royal beekeeper has informed the hives at Buckingham Palace of the Queen’s death. Queen Elizabeth II passed away at her Balmoral residence in Scotland on Thursday 8 September aged 96, after ...
URL: https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/royal-family/royal-beekeeper-bees-queen-death-b2164345.html

[Royal beekeeper tasked to inform queen's bees of her death]
Sep 15, 2022 · Royal beekeeper John Chapple officially informed the beehives that are situated on the grounds of Clarence House and Buckingham Palace of the queen's death last week.
URL: https://nypost.com/2022/09/15/royal-beekeeper-tasked-to-inform-queens-bees-of-her-death/

[Why the Queen's bees needed to be told about her death | CBC Radio]
Sep 15, 2022 — Indeed, palace beekeeper John Chapple confirmed to The Daily Mail that on Friday, he quietly told the tens of thousands of bees that are kept on ...
URL: https://www.cbc.ca/radio/asithappens/queen-bees-informed-of-her-death-1.6582883


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Royal Beekeeper Had to Inform Queen Elizabeth's Bees of Her Death] ---
Royal Beekeeper Had to Inform Queen Elizabeth's Bees of Her Death: 'It Is Traditional' John Chapple told the bees that King Charles is their "new master" following the death of the late monarch By Stephanie Wenger Stephanie Wenger Stephanie Wenger is a TV Writer/Reporter at PEOPLE. She joined the brand in 2021 as a digital news writer, covering stories spanning across the site's verticals. She previously contributed E! Online, Hollywood Life and Oscar.com. People Editorial Guidelines Published on September 14, 2022 04:03PM EDT Credit : Andrew Milligan/PA Images/Getty Goodbye to the Queen Bee. The royal beekeeper, John Chapple, told The Daily Mail that he informed the tens of thousands of bees residing in hives at Buckingham Palace and Clarence House that King Charles is their "new master" after Queen Elizabeth died on September 8. The ritual is part of a tradition in which bees must be told of change in ownership; otherwise, they will no longer produce honey and will leave the hive, according to the outlet. The tradition is best known in England, but also happens in Ireland, Wales, Germany, Netherlands, France, Switzerland, Bohemia and the United States. "It is traditional when someone dies that you go to the hives and say a little prayer and put a black ribbon on the hive," Chapple shared. A History of Queen Elizabeth II and Her Devotion to Corgis Andrew Milligan/PA Images/Getty Can't get enough of PEOPLE's Royals coverage? Sign up for our free Royals newsletter to get the latest updates on Kate Middleton, Meghan Markle and more! He continued, "The person who has died is the master or mistress of the hives, someone important in the family who dies and you don't get any more important than the Queen, do you? You knock on each hive and say, 'The mistress is dead, but don't you go. Your master will be a good master to you.' I've done the hives at Clarence House, and I'm now in Buckingham Palace doing their hives." Chapple — who has been the royal beekeeper for 15 years — hopes that bees continue to have a home on royals grounds. For more on the Royals, listen below to our daily podcast PEOPLE Every Day. "It has been a wonderful privilege to do things like this for the Queen and hopefully now for the King," he said. "I hope they still want to keep the bees on their premises. You never know. They might say, take them away, but I don't think that will happening though really you do never know," he added. "It's up to the new tenant of Buckingham Palace." Queen Elizabeth, the Longest-Reigning British Monarch, Dies at 96 Samir Hussein/Wireimage Kate Middleton has revealed she has an interest in bees as well. Last year, she brought a special treat for the local schoolchildren she met: homemade honey from Anmer Hall, the Norfolk home where she enjoys time in the country with Prince William and their three children: Prince George, 9, Princess Charlotte, 7, and Prince Louis, 4. "Would you like to try some? This came specially from my beehive," she told the kids, according to a report from the event. "Does it taste like honey from the shops? Does it taste like flowers?" The children smiled as they licked spoons of the tasty treat. Close Read more: Royals British Royal Family British Royal Family Deaths


--- [Queen Elizabeth II's bees informed of her death, as part of a long-standing ...] ---
Queen Elizabeth II's bees informed of her death, as part of a long-standing beekeeping tradition One British colony received special correspondence about Queen Elizabeth II's death last week – not from Buckingham Palace, but the Palace beekeeper. The superstitious and somewhat cute tradition of 'telling the bees' of a death in the family has been part of rural British folklore for centuries. It was no different for the death of Britain's longest reigning monarch. How were the Queen's bees told? Palace beekeeper, John Chapple, told Mail Online he travelled to Clarence House and Buckingham Palace on Friday to tell the seven bee hives. "I'm at the hives now and it is traditional when someone dies that you go to the hives and say a little prayer and put a black ribbon on the hive," the 79-year-old said. "I drape the hives with black ribbon with a bow." Mr Chapple said he delivered the same message at both locations, in hushed tones. "You knock on each hive and say, 'The mistress is dead, but don't you go. Your master will be a good master to you,"he said. How old is this tradition? Across the UK and Europe, many 18th and 19th century magazines, diary entries and paintings refer to the custom of telling the bees. But the practice may have its origins in Celtic mythology, which held that bees were intermediaries between our world and the spirit world. Why do they tell the bees? Whether it is a birth, death or marriage, the bees were to be told about all important events in their keeper's lives. It was believed beekeepers had strong connections with the bees, so they deserved to be treated like family, and mourn them when they died. The following stanzas from the poem Telling the Bees, written in 1858 by American John Greenleaf Whittier, depict the important practice: Before them, under the garden wall, Forward and back Went, drearily singing, the chore-girl small, Draping each hive with a shred of black. Trembling, I listened; the summer sun Had the chill of snow; For I knew she was telling the bees of one Gone on the journey we all must go! "Stay at home, pretty bees, fly not hence! Mistress Mary is dead and gone! What happens if the bees are not told? In the event of a death, the bees were to be put into mourning. This involved draping the hives in black cloth, leaving funeral food beside them and relaying news of the death quietly. But if the bees were not informed, or put into mourning, it was believed they might stop producing honey, sting their next keeper, or die. The Queen's Bees Queen Elizabeth II was reportedly a bee enthusiast, and had a number of hives on the Palace grounds for many years. According to the reports, The Royal Family chefs used the honey in their cooking and sold any leftovers to fundraise for charities.


--- [Royal beekeeper informs Buckingham Palace bees that the Queen has died] ---
Royal beekeeper informs Buckingham Palace bees that the Queen has died The palace has five beehives, each containing around 20,000 bees - Bookmark - CommentsGo to comments The royal beekeeper has informed the hives at Buckingham Palace of the Queen’s death. Queen Elizabeth II passed away at her Balmoral residence in Scotland on Thursday 8 September aged 96, after 70 years on the throne. Buckingham Palace said in a statement: “The Queen died peacefully at Balmoral this afternoon. The King and The Queen Consort will remain at Balmoral this evening and will return to London tomorrow.” John Chapple, the official Palace beekeeper, has now told Mail Online that he travelled to the palace and Clarence House on Friday (9 September) to carry out the formality. The ritual is based on an old superstition which claims that not telling the bees about a change of owner can lead to them not producing any honey. Chapple said he placed black ribbon bowties on the hives, before informing them, in hushed tones, of the Queen’s passing. He also told the bees that a new master would be in charge – King Charles III. “You knock on each hive and say, ‘The mistress is dead, but don’t you go. Your master will be a good master to you’,” Chapple said on Friday. “The person who has died is the master or mistress of the hives, someone important in the family who dies, and you don’t get any more important than the Queen, do you?” Clarence House is home to two beehives, while Buckingham Palace has five. Each hive contains an estimated 20,000 bees each, though this number changes throughout the year. Chapple has been the official palace beekeeper for 15 years. Recalling his appointment, he told Mail Online he got the job without applying. “I got an email from the head gardener here at Buckingham Palace to come here and talk about bees,” Chapple explained. “I thought they had a problem with bees, but it turned out they wanted to keep bees so henceforth I look after the bees here.” Chapple said it had been a “wonderful privilege” to care for the bees under the Queen’s reign, and he hopes to continue in his role as King Charles ascends to the throne. “I hope they still want to keep the bees on their premises,” Chapple said. “They might say, take them away but I don’t think that will [be] happening though really you do never know. It’s up to the new tenant of Buckingham Palace.” Follow the latest updates as King Charles III is officially declared monarch Join our commenting forum Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Comments


--- [Royal beekeeper tasked to inform queen's bees of her death] ---
The royal bees were stung by the news. Royal beekeeper John Chapple officially informed the beehives, situated on the grounds of Clarence House and Buckingham Palace, of the queen’s death last week and that King Charles has ascended to the throne. The tradition, called “telling the bees,” demands that the bees be informed of the monarch’s passing in a hushed tone, the Daily Mail reported. A traditional custom in many European countries, “telling the bees” started centuries ago According to tradition, the bees must be told of important events in their keepers’ lives, such as births, marriages or departures from the household. It is said that if the bees are not told of important events, there will be a penalty to pay such as bees leaving their hive, stopping the production of honey, or even dying. “I’m at the hives now, and it is traditional when someone dies that you go to the hives and say a little prayer and put a black ribbon on the hive,” the 79-year-old beekeeper told the Daily Mail. “The person who has died is the master or mistress of the hives, someone important in the family who dies and you don’t get any more important than the queen, do you?” Chapple continued saying that it is proper for the person performing the custom to ask them to serve the next leader. “You knock on each hive and say, ‘The mistress is dead, but don’t you go. Your master will be a good master to you,'” said Chapple. “I’ve done the hives at Clarence House and I’m now in Buckingham Palace doing their hives.” Chapple revealed that at the height of the summer, he was caring for nearly a million bees. “At this time of year, each hive contains 20,000 each, maybe a bit more but I’m not very good at counting them. It’s over a million in the summer,” he said. Chapple also said it was pure accident that he got the job. “I got an email from the head gardener here at Buckingham Palace to come here and talk about bees,” recalled Chapple. “I thought they had a problem with bees but it turned out they wanted to keep bees so henceforth I look after the bees here.” Chapple said that he has been caring for the royal bees for nearly 15 years and hopes that the new occupants of Buckingham Palace will allow him to continue his work. “It has been a wonderful privilege to do things like this for the queen and hopefully now for the king,” said Chapple. “I hope they still want to keep the bees on their premises. You never know. They might say, take them away, but I don’t think that will [be] happening though really you do never know … It’s up to the new tenant of Buckingham Palace.”


--- [Why the Queen's bees needed to be told about her death | CBC Radio] ---
Why the Queen's bees needed to be told about her death Tradition to inform bees of a family member's death dates back to the 18th century Amid all the protocol surrounding the death of Queen Elizabeth last Thursday — including how and when the public was informed — who knew there was also a protocol of sorts around informing her bees? Indeed, palace beekeeper John Chapple confirmed to The Daily Mail that on Friday, he quietly told the tens of thousands of bees that are kept on the grounds of Buckingham Palace and Clarence House that the Queen had died the day before, and that King Charles was their new master. You may forgive a few raised eyebrows. "Lots of people have looked at this story and gone ... that's very strange. This is these quirky British people doing odd things," folklorist Mark Norman told As It Happens host Nil Köksal. "But in fact, it's not that at all. It's a very old tradition." Not sharing news invited ill fortune The precise origins of "telling the bees" are not known, but Norman says the practice possibly comes from Celtic times. The keeping of — and reverence of — bees dates back to the ancient Egyptians, he added. Back in the 18th and 19th centuries, he said, declining to share a family's news with their bees risked bringing about "ill fortune" and "bad luck." Norman speculates that doing so once may have preceded a moment of good luck, sparking an ongoing tradition because no one would have wanted to jinx things. "These sorts of things were absolutely believed and they absolutely had to take place because people couldn't risk the bad luck of having a swarm leave or having the bees die if they didn't follow this belief," he said. Norman, who wrote a book called Telling the Bees and Other Customs: The Folklore of Rural Crafts, says the tradition stood for all homes of hives, not just those of royals, as bees were considered members of the family. "That goes back to the early Christian church, and parallels that were drawn with the bees in a hive and the family environment and the way that the hive works," he said. As such, bees were to be informed of all the major life events of their family — not only deaths, but marriages or births, too. "They don't just want bad news." Hives in mourning In this most recent and widely reported case, though, the news was bad. And to deliver it, Norman says the palace beekeeper would have gone to each beehive and knocked on the side — "this would be to get the bees' attention" — then he would have told them of the Queen's death. This announcement would then place the hives into a state of mourning. Indeed, Chapple told the Mail he tied a black ribbon to each of the hives. Norman says many non-royal beekeepers have confirmed to him in the past few days that they still uphold the tradition of telling their own bees important news, too. "The fact that they still take place and these traditions are still observed just really highlights the value that are placed on bees and the importance that are placed on bees within a culture," he said. "And that really backs up everything that we see relating to much more modern issues, such as climate change and the loss of bees and pollinators and what sorry state we would be in without them." Interview produced by Shannon Higgins
