=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Remember legendary blues singer Bessie Smith? Her death by car crash at ...]
Aug 21, 2018 · Soon later, two ambulances arrived – one for Bessie and the other one for the couple who crashed into Hugh’s car. Once in the G. T. Thomas Afro-American Hospital in Clarksdale, the singer’s right arm was amputated. During that same morning, she passed away without regaining her conscious.
URL: https://news.amomama.com/101464-remember-bessie-smith-her-death-car-cras.html

[Bessie Smith - Wikipedia]
Smith was taken to the G. T. Thomas Afro-American Hospital in Clarksdale, where her right arm was amputated. She died that morning without regaining consciousness.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bessie_Smith

[The Truth about Bessie Smith's Tragic Death - Richard Pennington]
Feb 13, 2018 · Smith, interviewed by police and later by reporters, was clear that she had been taken to G.T. Thomas. Following the amputation of her arm, she died there around 11 a.m., nine hours after the accident.
URL: https://richardpennington.com/2018/02/13/truth-bessie-smiths-tragic-death/

[Bessie Smith - The Tombstone Tourist]
While Bessie laid on the side of the road, waiting for the ambulance and receiving first aid, a second car traveling at a high rate of speed plowed into Bessie's disabled vehicle. Bessie was ultimately transported to the G. T. Thomas Afro-American Hospital (now the Riverside Hotel) in Clarksdale, where her right arm was amputated.
URL: https://thetombstonetourist.com/graves/grave-bessie-smith-montlawn-cemetery/

[Bessie Smith | Jazz Anecdotes: Second Time Around | Oxford Academic]
Five minutes later, the ambulance arrived and rushed Bessie to the Negro ward of the G. T. Thomas Hospital in Clarksdale, where one of the town's best surgeons amputated her arm. She died fifteen minutes past noon that same day. The doctors reported that her death was probably due more to her internal injuries than to the loss of blood.
URL: https://academic.oup.com/book/49379/chapter/422059554


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Remember legendary blues singer Bessie Smith? Her death by car crash at ...] ---
Remember legendary blues singer Bessie Smith? Her death by car crash at 43 is shrouded in mystery Blues singer Bessie Smith, also known as the Empress of the Blues, was one of the most talented and famous female singers of the 1920s and 1930s when she died. As American Blues Scene reported, Smith was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in 1894. Only 43 years after that, she passed away on September 26, 1937, following a tragic automobile crash. When the accident took place, the sky was clear and it wasn’t raining. Bessie and her lover, Richard Morgan, who was driving the car, were traveling along the Route 61 in Coahoma County as they were going to Darling, Mississippi for a show. Unfortunately, neither Richard nor Bessie saw the truck that was pulled over on the side of the road on time and, even though the man tried to avoid it, they crashed. Bessie probably had her arm out of the window because it was almost completely severed. The first people who arrived at the scene were Dr. Hugh Smith and Henry Broughton, a fishing partner of Hugh. The doctor noticed that Bessie had lost a lot of blood and urged Henry to go to a house that was about 500 feet away from the crash scene to call an ambulance. In the meantime, Hugh dressed the singer’s arm and waited for the ambulance. After almost half-an-hour later, there was no sign of the ambulance, so Hugh decided to take Bessie to a hospital in his own vehicle. Unfortunately, another speeding car didn’t see Hugh’s vehicle, and it crashed into it, too. Soon later, two ambulances arrived – one for Bessie and the other one for the couple who crashed into Hugh’s car. Once in the G. T. Thomas Afro-American Hospital in Clarksdale, the singer’s right arm was amputated. During that same morning, she passed away without regaining her conscious. When that story was revealed, several rumors were created. Among the most notable ones was that Bessie was taken to a hospital for white people, where she was turned away, implying that those precious minutes could have saved her life. Another rumor suggests that the first ambulance that got to the crash scene took the second couple, who were white, before taken Bessie. Those stories have not been confirmed, so Bessie’s passing is very likely to be a mystery for more years to come.


--- [Bessie Smith - Wikipedia] ---
Bessie Smith (April 15, 1892 – September 26, 1937) was an African-American blues singer widely renowned during the Jazz Age. Nicknamed the "Empress of the Blues" and formerly Queen of the Blues, she was the most popular female blues singer of the 1930s. Inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1989, she is often regarded as one of the greatest singers of her era and was a major influence on fellow blues singers, as well as jazz vocalists.
Born in Chattanooga, Tennessee, Smith was young when her parents died, and she and her six siblings survived by performing on street corners. She began touring and performed in a group that included Ma Rainey, and then went out on her own. Her successful recording career with Columbia Records began in  1923, but her performing career was cut short by a car crash that killed her at the age of 45.


--- [The Truth about Bessie Smith's Tragic Death - Richard Pennington] ---
J. Frank Dobie was a member of the faculty at the University of Texas off and on from 1914 until his dismissal in 1947. As you may know, I attended said institution in the early and mid-1970s. Dobie, author of numerous books, was a widely recognized voice of Texas and southwestern culture. I have my doubts about this man, who died seven years before I got to UT. Perhaps he was being sly or witty when he uttered the phrase “never let the truth get in the way of a good story,” but I don’t buy it. I confess, in my writings I sometimes find it necessary to condense or summarize to facilitate the reader’s understanding or to preclude his/her frustration. The basic facts cannot be fudged, though. I am here to contradict old J. Frank by asserting that the truth comes first. He was generally liberal and progressive on social matters, but I doubt he knew or cared about blues music. That is our topic—namely, Bessie Smith, one of the greatest blues practitioners from the early days. She died on September 26, 1937, but even now the circumstances are shrouded in rumor and suspicion. This can be traced to one man, John Hammond, and his decision to lie for a good cause. Death on Highway 61 Smith and her paramour/manager Richard Morgan were driving north on Highway 61 around 2 in the morning. They were in Coahoma County, Mississippi, and she was headed for a singing engagement in Memphis. Morgan failed to see a truck parked on the side of the road with its lights off. There was a collision, Smith’s right arm was nearly severed, and she had serious internal injuries. Who first came upon the scene but a doctor! Yes, Dr. Hugh Smith and his friend Henry Broughton were going on a fishing trip. Both of these men, it must be noted, were European-American. The Mississippi Delta in the 1930s seethed with racism and white-on-black violence, so Dr. Smith and Broughton might have just chosen to ignore these unfortunate African-American victims. They did not, stopping and doing their best to give Smith emergency first aid; Morgan was just shaken up. Because she weighed more than 200 pounds, they had trouble loading her into the back seat of Dr. Smith’s car. As they were doing so, a car bearing two drunken European-Americans crashed into Morgan’s car which then hit Dr. Smith’s. One can imagine the mayhem. It took nearly 30 minutes for an ambulance to arrive. In fact, two arrived—one for the injured European-American woman in the second car, and one for Smith. Jim Crow laws and mores had to be followed, even in a critical situation. Different ambulances roared off to different hospitals in nearby Clarksdale. G.T. Thomas Hospital surely did not have the same equipment, and well-trained physicians and nurses as its counterpart, but Smith had to go there. She would not be given special treatment just because she was a famous blues singer. Dr. Smith, interviewed by police and later by reporters, was clear that she had been taken to G.T. Thomas. Following the amputation of her arm, she died there around 11 a.m., nine hours after the accident. A lie travels fast… Things get murky at this point. Morgan may have fed disinformation to Hammond, well-known as a music critic, talent scout and record producer. In fact, he had supervised some of Bessie Smith’s last recording sessions. Hammond wrote about her death in the October 1937 issue of Downbeat magazine. He claimed that Smith had been taken to the European-American hospital in Clarksdale, was turned away and then died—a callous show of racism. Hammond, wealthy, powerful and a champion of civil rights for non-European-Americans, did just what J. Frank Dobie advocated. That is, he went with the good story (look at what those bigoted Southern honks have done now) rather than the literal truth. Hammond lied, and he knew it. Dr. Hugh Smith and Henry Broughton had acquitted themselves quite well, a point soon lost amid Hammond’s falsehoods. Let me remind you of something Winston Churchill once said: “A lie can travel halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on.” Although the very next issue of Downbeat contained a retraction, the story of Smith being refused service at Clarksdale’s European-American hospital stuck. A one-act play by Edward Albee in 1959 entitled The Death of Bessie Smith was based on Hammond’s fib—with the exception that he placed the segregated hospital in Memphis. Not until the 1972 publication of Chris Albertson’s in-depth biography of Smith were the facts laid out. Hammond, bulldog tenacious, would not concede that he had misrepresented the truth. He died in 1987, still lying about what happened 50 years earlier. Tell the truth While I understand the temptation to cast Bessie Smith as a martyr to 20th century Southern racism, this is a false narrative. There is fiction, and there is nonfiction, and the two should not be conflated. The former is whatever springs from the mind of a novelist, whereas the latter is not so malleable. The car crash—or crashes—on Highway 61 that morning were quite real, as was Smith’s suffering and death. I take issue with Dobie, Hammond and Albee who found it convenient to play fast and loose with the facts.


--- [Bessie Smith - The Tombstone Tourist] ---
Bessie Smith Fun Facts It has often been reported that Bessie Smith was taken to a whites-only hospital in Clarksdale, Mississippi but was refused services and died shortly later due to the delay in getting treatment for her traumatic injuries. The jazz writer and producer John Hammond gave this account in an article in the November 1937 issue of DownBeat magazine which has been completely discredited. What most people don’t realize is that there was actually 2 car crashes involved that night. The first (and fatal) crash was caused by Bessie’s lover who was driving at the time Richard Morgan who misjudged the speed of a slow-moving truck ahead of him. Skid marks at the scene suggested that Morgan tried to avoid the truck by driving around its left side, but he hit the rear of the truck side-on at high speed. The tailgate of the truck sheared off the wooden roof of Smith’s old Packard vehicle. Smith, who was in the passenger seat, probably with her right arm or elbow out the window, took the full brunt of the impact nearly severing her right arm off at the shoulder. While Bessie laid on the side of the road, waiting for the ambulance and receiving first aid, a second car traveling at a high rate of speed plowed into Bessie’s disabled vehicle. Bessie was ultimately transported to the G. T. Thomas Afro-American Hospital (now the Riverside Hotel) in Clarksdale, where her right arm was amputated. She died that morning without regaining consciousness. First husband Jack Gee thwarted all efforts to purchase a stone for his estranged wife, twice pocketing money raised for that purpose. Smith’s grave remained unmarked until a tombstone was erected on August 7, 1970, paid for by the singer Janis Joplin and Juanita Green, who as a child had done housework for Smith. Cemetery Information: Final Resting Place: Montlawn Cemetery 2911 S Wilmington Sharon Hill, Pennsylvania, 19079 USA North America Map: Grave Location: Section C, Lot 26, Grave 3Grave Location Description As you enter the cemetery off of Hook Road drive past the office on your right and make the first left turn. Drive along the road and park just past the maintenance shed on your left. Park on the right and the section on your right is Section C and is well marked. Walk about 50 feet into the section and look for the only upright black monument for the final resting place of the legandary Bessie Smith. Grave Location GPS 39.901961,-75.260662Photos: FAQ's Read More About Bessie Smith: - Wikipedia Entry - Forebears: Bessie Smith, The Empress Of The Blues - Bessie Smith on the Last Road to Clarksdale - Bessie Smith House in Philadelphia - Eight Remarkable Tales of the Empress of the Blues - Stomp Off - The Death of Bessie Smith as told by the doctor that treated her - History vs. Hollywood: the Bessie Smith movie - When blues legend Bessie Smith beat up fellow singer Gertrude Saunders over affair with husband - The Death of Bessie Smith


--- [Bessie Smith | Jazz Anecdotes: Second Time Around | Oxford Academic] ---
No content
