=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[New Haven Mural Honors Prison Abolitionist Ruth Wilson Gilmore]
Nov 8, 2023 · In New Haven, Connecticut, a new public mural in the neighborhood of Edgewood celebrates local advocacy for racial and economic justice through the lens of prison abolitionist and scholar Ruth ...
URL: https://hyperallergic.com/new-haven-mural-honors-prison-abolitionist-ruth-wilson-gilmore/

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Wikipedia]
In 2023, Gilmore was honored with a mural painted by artist and filmmaker, Jess X. Snow and local community members on the outside of the Possible Futures bookstore in New Haven, Connecticut.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruth_Wilson_Gilmore

[About Mural | Possible Futures]
A mural of Ruth "Ruthie" Wilson Gilmore has popped up in New Haven's Edgewood neighborhood.
URL: https://www.possiblefuturesbooks.com/about/mural

[Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Reference.org]
In 2023, Gilmore was honored with a mural painted by artist and filmmaker, Jess X. Snow and local community members on the outside of the Possible Futures bookstore in New Haven, Connecticut. 28
URL: https://reference.org/facts/Ruth_Wilson_Gilmore/kRBwTfKw

[Brick Wall Sees Possible Abolitionist Future - New Haven Independent]
Aug 23, 2023 · That was about to change. Tuesday marked the beginning of a 10-day-long painting project to design a mural, a tribute to New Haven local and celebrated prison abolitionist Ruth Wilson Gilmore. The blank wall became a canvas, as muralists and community volunteers worked together to explore all the possible futures the space could hold.
URL: https://www.newhavenindependent.org/2023/08/23/possible_future_of_a_brick_wall/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [New Haven Mural Honors Prison Abolitionist Ruth Wilson Gilmore] ---
New Haven Mural Honors Prison Abolitionist Ruth Wilson Gilmore The community-led artwork also spotlights the city’s continued advocacy for racial and economic justice. In New Haven, Connecticut, a new public mural in the neighborhood of Edgewood celebrates local advocacy for racial and economic justice through the lens of prison abolitionist and scholar Ruth (Ruthie) Wilson Gilmore. Painted on the red-brick exterior of the Possible Futures bookstore, the crowd-funded mural boasts a community-wide effort from start to finish that was heavily acknowledged during the October 21 unveiling ceremony attended by Ruthie and her family. One side of the mural is a rendering of young Ruthie held up by her father, lifelong New Haven activist Courtland Seymour Wilson, as the pair look up at "portals" of formative memories that catalyzed Ruthie's path toward abolitionism; a quote by her reads, "We can make freedom out of what we have." The second side portrays a large portrait of present-day Ruthie holding native plants that frame a central portal of members from New Haven's Citywide Youth Coalition and other community advocates fighting to improve funding for and remove police presence from the city's public schools. Selected muralist Jess X. Snow told Hyperallergic that the project design was community-informed, noting that the project team engaged in conversations with Ruthie herself as well as five scholars of her work: Alán Pelaez Lopez, Adamu Chan, A. Naomi Paik, and Daniel Martinez HoSang. "It was important for us to incorporate youth abolitionist organizing within New Haven and represent Ruthie's vision for abolition and the impact that she had on the city and its history together," Snow explained. Ruthie's scholarship and career in anti-racism and carceral geography have manifested in her co-founding of grassroots organizations for prison abolition including Critical Resistance with Angela Davis, the coalition of Californians United for a Responsible Budget (CURB), and the California Prison Moratorium Project. As a renowned geographer and author of Abolition Geography: Essays Toward Liberation (2023) among other texts, she is regarded as a leading voice within the spheres of decarceration and prison abolition. A core teaching of hers that reverberates throughout the New Haven mural is that “what the world will become already exists in fragments and pieces, experiments and possibilities.” "She really changed the way that I think about abolition," Snow elaborated. "Sometimes, abolitionists talk about these grand visions that are theory-heavy, but I found that Ruthie was able to connect abolition to the small actions and the practices that we do on the daily and the ways that we relate to each other which was really powerful." The mural's lead organizer and New Haven high school teacher Nataliya Braginsky told Hyperallergic that the "fragments" Ruthie refers to exist in New Haven already, as demonstrated by the Intergenerational Abolition Project with support from Connecticut's Anti-Racist Teaching and Learning Collective — both entities were key facilitators of the mural. Braginsky said that Ruthie's teachings were essential to her as she worked "to create alternatives to punitive discipline policies at Metropolitan [Business Academy]," where she taught for nine years. "Ruthie teaches us that abolition is life in rehearsal, but I don’t think I fully understood what that meant until now," Braginsky said during her unveiling ceremony speech shared with Hyperallergic. "So, when you look at this mural, know that it is not just about abolition, it is a product of it. It’s not just an ode to Ruthie, it is a practice of what Ruthie has taught us." Snow and their team of assistants and volunteers, assembled by project manager Gavriel Cutipa-Zorn and led by Sonja John, worked tirelessly for two weeks at the end of August to complete the two-sided mural. Another compelling aspect of the work, which was partially funded by the Center for Biological Diversity, is the representation of endangered flora native to the New Haven area, including the Sandplain Gerardia, the Small Whorled Pogonia, and the Jesup’s Milk-vetch. "We wanted to relate Ruthie's vision of abolition to also a vision of climate justice where these rare and native plants reclaim the land and grow toward the sky," Snow highlighted, further enshrining the tangibility of Ruthie's message.


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Wikipedia] ---
Ruth Wilson Gilmore (born April 2, 1950) is a prison abolitionist and prison scholar. She is the Director of the Center for Place, Culture, and Politics and professor of geography in Earth and Environmental Sciences at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. She has made important contributions to carceral geography, the "study of the interrelationships across space, institutions and political economy that shape and define modern incarceration". She received the 2020 Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Association of Geographers.


--- [About Mural | Possible Futures] ---
No content


--- [Ruth Wilson Gilmore - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Brick Wall Sees Possible Abolitionist Future - New Haven Independent] ---
The outside wall of Possible Futures, the bookstore located at 318 Edgewood Ave., stood blank and dull against the street, devoid of inspiration and creativity. That was about to change. Tuesday marked the beginning of a 10-day-long painting project to design a mural, a tribute to New Haven local and celebrated prison abolitionist Ruth Wilson Gilmore. The blank wall became a canvas, as muralists and community volunteers worked together to explore all the possible futures the space could hold. Serendipitously, Tuesday also marked the first anniversary of the bookstore’s opening. The owner, Lauren Anderson, recalled asking at the time she leased the space about the possibility of a mural in the future. “I couldn’t have imagined something this big, though!” she said. Anderson explained that the mural served less as a tribute to the bookstore and more as a representation of a community-wide hope. “I don’t think its point is to say anything about Possible Futures, the bookstore, but about possible futures, the idea,” she said. Anderson referenced a quote from Gilmore, a renowned geographer, prison abolitionist, and prison scholar who grew up in New Haven: “We can make freedom out of what we have.” “That’s a big part of the idea,” she said. “Imagining things that might not exist yet but could be different from what they are, and things that might not change in our lifetimes but will in future generations.” Gavriel Cutipa-Zorn, the project manager for the mural, believes that it serves as a collective representation of New Haven abolitionists. The project started with a group of young people and educators who formed the Intergenerational Abolition Project, and studied the work of Ruth Wilson Gilmore. “The idea is that we often have murals about people who have passed away, but she’s a living legend and we should celebrate her now,” said Cutipa-Zorn. The mural will start on one side with images depicting radical New Haven history, and then transition to showing imagined ideas of what the future could look like. In designing the plan, muralist Jess X. Snow incorporated notes from multiple specialists and sources, as well as ideas — certain colors and birds, for example — acquired through a neighborhood feedback form. Cutipa-Zorn said that they wanted the local residents to “have a stake in what is being created here.” Designing a mural, he explained, “is never about one artist or one individual, it’s about a community.” “This came out of work that had happened even before I became a part of it,” said Cutipa-Zorn. “This is about the years of teacher struggle … people call New Haven a union town, but it’s also an abolitionist town.” Once Cutipa-Zorn and Snow had finished setting up the area, the volunteers began to paint the primary coat, a shade lighter and more vibrant than the actual brick. Adults and children, people with all different levels of experience, worked together to transform the outside of the bookstore. Dave Weinreb, a magnet resource teacher at Elm City Montessori and a self-proclaimed “deep lover of mural arts,” brought his 20-month-old daughter, Dalia, to help out with the painting. “Walls are meant to be spaces of shared beauty,” Weinreb said. “Murals beg questions. Murals are one of the most accessible forms of art. Murals are available. We notice them in transit and they invite us to stop and linger. I think anything that has the power to make us stop and think has the ability to teach.” This particular mural will convey a message of freedom and hope, well suited for a bookstore called Possible Futures. “If we’re trying to create freedom out of what we have here, we have a lot in New Haven to go on,” said Cutipa-Zorn. The mural will teach its audience — an ever-changing and transitory audience consisting of anyone who passes by Possible Futures — a lesson about possibilities and opportunities for change. If a blank brick wall can become a work of art, what else can we transform when we put our minds to the task?
