=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Classical conditioning - Wikipedia]
Pavlov called the dogs' anticipatory salivation "psychicsecretion". Putting these informal observations to an experimental test, Pavlov presented a stimulus (e.g. the sound of a metronome) and thengavethedog food; after a few repetitions, the dogs started to salivate in response to the stimulus.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical_conditioning

[Conditioned reflexes: An investigation of the physiological activity of ...]
Lecture I The development of the objective method in investigating the physiological activities of the cerebral hemispheres. —ConceptofReflex. — Variety of Reflexes. — Signal reflexes, the most fundamental physiological characteristic of the hemispheres. The cerebral hemispheres stand out as the crowning achievement in the nervous development of the animal kingdom. These structures in ...
URL: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4116985/

[Pavlov's Dogs Experiment & Pavlovian Conditioning Response]
Pavlov expected his dogs to salivate for food, but noticed they began salivating at the mere sound of his assistant's approaching footsteps. Pavlov realized these were learned responses to incidental stimuli associated with feeding, which he termed'psychicsecretions'.
URL: https://www.simplypsychology.org/pavlov.html

[Ivan Pavlov - an overview | ScienceDirect Topics]
Initially, Pavlov referred to the conditioned response as a "psychicsecretion" to distinguish this type of response from the unlearned physiologicalsecretionsthat would later come to be known as the unconditioned response. In 1903, a student of Pavlov's published a paper that changed the termpsychicsecretionto conditioned reflex.
URL: https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/agricultural-and-biological-sciences/ivan-pavlov

[Ivan Pavlov - Biographical - NobelPrize.org]
A series of these experiments caused Pavlov to reject the subjective interpretation of «psychic» salivarysecretionand, on the basis of Sechenov's hypothesis thatpsychicactivity was of a reflex nature, to conclude that even here a reflex - though not a permanent but a temporary or conditioned one - was involved.
URL: https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/medicine/1904/pavlov/biographical/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Classical conditioning - Wikipedia] ---
Classical conditioning (also respondent conditioning and Pavlovian conditioning) is a behavioral procedure in which a biologically potent stimulus (e.g. food, a puff of air on the eye) is paired with a neutral stimulus (e.g. the sound of a musical triangle). The term classical conditioning refers to the process of an automatic, conditioned response that is paired with a specific stimulus. It is essentially equivalent to a signal.
Ivan Pavlov, the Russian physiologist, studied classical conditioning with detailed experiments with dogs, and published the experimental results in 1897. In the study of digestion, Pavlov observed that the experimental dogs salivated when fed red meat. Pavlovian conditioning is distinct from operant conditioning (instrumental conditioning), through which the strength of a voluntary behavior is modified, either by reinforcement or by punishment. However, classical conditioning can affect operant conditioning; classically conditioned stimuli can reinforce operant responses.
Classical conditioning is a basic behavioral mechanism, and its neural substrates are now beginning to be understood. Though it is sometimes hard to distinguish classical conditioning from other forms of associative learning (e.g., instrumental learning and human associative memory); a number of observations differentiate them, especially the contingencies whereby learning occurs.
Together with operant conditioning, classical conditioning became the foundation of behaviorism, a school of psychology which was dominant in the mid-20th century and is still an important influence on the practice of psychological therapy and the study of animal behavior. Classical conditioning has been applied in other areas as well. For example, it may affect the body's response to psychoactive drugs, the regulation of hunger, research on the neural basis of learning and memory, and in certain social phenomena such as the false consensus effect.


--- [Conditioned reflexes: An investigation of the physiological activity of ...] ---
Lecture I The development of the objective method in investigating the physiological activities of the cerebral hemispheres. — Concept of Reflex. — Variety of Reflexes. — Signal reflexes, the most fundamental physiological characteristic of the hemispheres. The cerebral hemispheres stand out as the crowning achievement in the nervous development of the animal kingdom. These structures in the higher animals are of considerable dimensions and exceedingly complex, being made up in man of millions upon millions of cells - centres or foci of nervous activity - varying in size, shape and arrangement, and connected with each other by countless branchings from their individual processes. Such complexity of structure naturally suggests a like complexity of function, which in fact is obvious in the higher animal and in man. Consider the dog, which has been for so many countless ages the servant of man. Think how he may be trained to perform various duties, watching, hunting, etc. We know that this complex behaviour of the animal, undoubtedly involving the highest nervous activity, is mainly associated with the cerebral hemispheres. If we remove the hemispheres in the dog I and others, 2 the animal becomes not only incapable of performing these duties hut also incapable even of looking after itself. It becomes in fact a helpless invalid, and cannot long survive unless it be carefully tended. In man also the highest nervous activity is dependent upon the structural and functional integrity of the cerebral hemispheres. As soon as these structures become damaged and their functions impaired in any way, so man also becomes an invalid. He can no longer proceed with his normal duties, but has to be kept out of the working world of his fellow men. In astounding contrast with the unbounded activity of the cerebral hemispheres stands the meagre content of present-day physiological knowledge concerning them. Up to the year 1870, in fact, there was no physiology of the hemispheres; they seemed to be out of reach of the physiologist. In that year the common physiological methods of stimulation and extirpation were first applied to them.3 It was found by these workers that stimulation of certain parts of the cortex of the hemispheres (motor cortex) regularly evoked contractions in definite groups of skeletal muscles: extirpation of these parts of the cortex led to disturbances in the normal functioning of the same groups of muscles. Shortly afterwards it was demonstrated 4,5 that other areas of the cortex which do not evoke any motor activity in response to stimulation are also functionally differentiated. Extirpation of these areas leads to definite defects in the nervous activity associated with certain receptor organs, such as the retina of the eye, the organ of Corti, and the sensory nerve-endings in the skin. Searching investigations have been made, and still are being made, by numerous workers on this question of localization of function in the cortex. Our knowledge has been increased in precision and filled out in detail, especially as regards the motor area, and has even found useful application in medicine. These investigations, however, did not proceed fundamentally beyond the position established by Fritsch and Hitzig. The important question of the physiological mechanism of the whole higher and complex behaviour of the animal which is - as Goltz showed - dependent upon the cerebral hemispheres, was not touched in any of these investigations and formed no part of the current physiological knowledge. When therefore we ask the questions: What do those facts which have up to the present been at the disposal of the physiologist explain with regard to the behaviour of the higher animals? What general scheme of the highest nervous activity can they give? Or what general rules governing this activity can they help us to formulate? -- the modern physiologist finds himself at a loss and can give no satisfactory reply. The problem of the mechanism of this complex structure which is so rich in function has got hidden away in a corner, and this unlimited field, so fertile in possibilities for research, has never been adequately explored. The reason for this is quite simple and clear. These nervous activities have never been regarded from the same point of view as those of other organs, or even other parts of the central nervous system. The activities of the hemispheres have been talked about as some kind of special psychical activity, whose working we feel and apprehend in ourselves, and by analogy suppose to exist in animals. This is an anomaly which has placed the physiologist in an extremely difficult position. On the one hand it would seem that the study of the activities of the cerebral hemispheres, as of the activities of any other part of the organism, should be within the compass of physiology, but on the other hand it happens to have been annexed to the special field of another science-psychology. What attitude then should the physiologist adopt? Perhaps he should first of all study the methods of this science of psychology, and only afterwards hope to study the physiological mechanism of the hemispheres? This involves a serious difficulty. It is logical that in its analysis of the various activities of living matter physiology should base itself on the more advanced and more exact sciences - physics and chemistry. But if we attempt an approach from this science of psychology to the problem confronting us we shall be building our superstructure on a science which has no claim to exactness as compared even with physiology. In fact it is still open to discussion whether psychology is a natural science, or whether it can be regarded as a science at all. It is not possible here for me to enter deeply into this question, but I will stay to give one fact which strikes me very forcibly, viz. that even the advocates of psychology do not look upon their science as being in any sense exact. The eminent American psychologist, William James, has in recent years referred to psychology not as a science but as a hope of science. Another striking illustration is provided by Wundt, the celebrated philosopher and psychologist, founder of the so-called experimental method in psychology and himself formerly a physiologist. Just before the War (1913), on the occasion of a discussion in Germany as to the advisability of making separate Chairs of Philosophy and Psychology, Wundt opposed the separation, one of his arguments being the impossibility of fixing a common examination schedule in psychology, since every professor had his own special ideas as to what psychology really was. Such testimony seems to show clearly that psychology cannot yet claim the status of an exact science. If this be the case there is no need for the physiologist to have recourse to psychology. It would be more natural that experimental investigation of the physiological activities of the hemispheres should lay a solid foundation for a future true science of psychology; such a course is more likely to lead to the advancement of this branch of natural science. The physiologist must thus take his own path, where a trail has already been blazed for him. Three hundred years ago Descartes evolved the idea of the reflex. Starting from the assumption that animals behaved simply as machines, he regarded every activity of the organism as a necessary reaction to some external stimulus, the connection between the stimulus and the response being made through a definite nervous path: and this connection, he stated, was the fundamental purpose of the nervous structures in the animal body. This was the basis on which the study of the nervous system was firmly established. In the eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth centuries the conception of the reflex was used to the full by physiologists. Working at first only on the lower parts of the central nervous system, they came gradually to study more highly developed parts, until quite recently Magnus,6 continuing the classical investigations of Sherrington 7 upon the spinal reflexes, has succeeded in demonstrating the reflex nature of all the elementary motor activities of the animal organism. Descartes' conception of the reflex was constantly and fruitfully applied in these studies, but its application has stopped short of the cerebral cortex. It may be hoped that some of the more complex activities of the body, which are made up by a grouping together of the elementary locomotor activities and which enter into the states referred to in psychological phraseology as "playfulness," "fear," "anger," and so forth, will soon be demonstrated as reflex activities of the subcortical parts of the brain. A bold attempt to apply the idea of the reflex to the activities of the hemispheres was made by the Russian physiologist, I.M. Sechenov, on the basis of the knowledge available in his day of the physiology of the central nervous system. In a pamphlet entitled "Reflexes of the Brain," published in Russian in 1863, he attempted to represent the activities of the cerebral hemispheres as reflex - that is to say, as determined. Thoughts he regarded as reflexes in which the effector path was inhibited, while great outbursts of passion he regarded as exaggerated reflexes with a wide irradiation of excitation. A similar attempt was made more recently by Ch. Richet, 8 who introduced the conception of the psychic reflex, in which the response following on a given stimulus is supposed to be determined by the association of this stimulus with the traces left in the hemispheres by past stimuli. And generally speaking, recent physiology shows a, tendency to regard the highest activities of the hemispheres as an association of the new excitations at any given time with traces left by old ones (associative memory, training, education by experience). All this, however, was mere conjecture. The time was ripe for a transition to the experimental analysis of the subject — an analysis which must be as objective as the analysis in any other branch of natural science. An impetus was given to this transition by the rapidly developing science of comparative physiology, which itself sprang up as a direct result of the Theory of Evolution. In dealing with the lower members of the animal kingdom physiologists were, of necessity, compelled to reject anthropomorphic preconceptions, and to direct all their effort towards the elucidation of the connections between the external stimulus and the resulting response, whether locomotor or other reaction. This led to the development of Loeb's doctrine of Animal Tropisms; 9 to the introduction of a new objective terminology to describe animal reactions [Beer, Bethe and Uexkull;10 and finally, it led to the investigation by zoologists, using purely objective methods, of the behaviour of the lower members of the animal kingdom in response to external stimuli-as for example in the classical researches of Jennings.11 Under the influence of these new tendencies in biology, which appealed to the practical bent of the American mind, the American School of Psychologists — already interested in the comparative study of psychology - evinced a disposition to subject the highest nervous activities of animals to experimental analysis under various specially devised conditions. We may fairly regard the treatise by Thorndyke [sic], The Animal Intelligence(1898),12 as the starting point for systematic investigations of this kind. In these investigations the animal was kept in a box, and food was placed outside the box so that it was visible to the animal. In order to get the food the animal had to open a door, which was fastened by various suitable contrivances in the different experiments. Tables and charts were made showing how quickly and in what manner the animal solved the problems set it. The whole process was understood as being the formation of an association between the visual and tactile stimuli on the one hand and the locomotor apparatus on the other. This method, with its modifications, was subsequently applied by numerous authors to the study of questions relating to the associative ability of various animals. At about the same time as Thorndyke [sic] was engaged on this work, I myself (being then quite ignorant of his researches) was also led to the objective study of the hemispheres, by the following circumstance: In the course of a detailed investigation into the activities of the digestive glands I had to inquire into the so-called psychic secretion of some of the glands, a task which I attempted in conjunction with a collaborator. As a result of this investigation an unqualified conviction of the futility of subjective methods of inquiry was firmly stamped upon my mind. It became clear that the only satisfactory solution of the problem lay in an experimental investigation by strictly objective methods. For this purpose I started to record all the external stimuli falling on the animal at the time its reflex reaction was manifested (in this particular case the secretion of saliva), at the same time recording all changes in the reaction of the animal. This was the beginning of these investigations, which have gone on now for twenty-five years-years in which numerous fellow-workers on whom I now look back with tender affection have united with mine in this work their hearts and hands. We have of course passed through many stages, and only gradually has the subject been opened up and the difficulties overcome. At first only a few scattered facts were available, but to-day sufficient material has been gathered together to warrant an attempt to present it in a more or less systematized form. At the present time I am in a position to present you with a physiological interpretation of the activities of the cerebral hemispheres which is, at any rate, more in keeping with the structural and functional complexity of this organ than is the collection of fragmentary, though very important, facts which up to the present have represented all the knowledge of this subject. Work on the lines of purely objective investigation into the highest nervous activities has been conducted in the main in the laboratories under my control, and over a hundred collaborators have taken part. Work on somewhat similar lines to ours has been done by the American psychologists. Up to the present, however, there has been one essential point of difference between the American School and ourselves. Being psychologists, their mode of experimentation, in spite of the fact that they are studying these activities on their external aspect, is mostly psychological - - at any rate so far as the arrangement of problems and their analysis and the formulation of results are concerned. Therefore - with the exception of a small group of "behaviourists" - their work cannot be regarded as purely physiological in character. We, having started from physiology, continue to adhere strictly to the physiological point of view, investigating and systematizing the whole subject by physiological methods alone. As regards other physiological laboratories a few only have directed their attention to this subject, and that recently; nor have their investigations extended beyond the limits of a preliminary inquiry. I shall now turn to the description of our material, first giving as a preliminary an account of the general conception of the reflex, of specific physiological reflexes, and of the so-called "instincts." Our starting point has been Descartes' idea of the nervous reflex. This is a genuine scientific conception, since it implies necessity. It may be summed upas follows: An external or internal stimulus falls on some one or other nervous receptor and gives rise to a nervous impulse; this nervous impulse is transmitted along nerve fibres to the central nervous system, and here, on account of existing nervous connections, it gives rise to a fresh impulse which passes along outgoing nerve fibres to the active organ, where it excites a special activity of the cellular structures. Thus a stimulus appears to be connected of necessity with a definite response, as cause with effect. It seems obvious that the whole activity of the organism should conform to definite laws. If the animal were not in exact correspondence with its environment it would, sooner or later, cease to exist. To give a biological example: if, instead of being attracted to food, the animal were repelled by it, or if instead of running from fire the anial threw itself into the fire, then it would quickly perish. The animal must respond to changes in the environment in such a manner that its responsive activity is directed towards the preservation of its existence. This conclusion holds also if we consider the living organism in terms of physical and chemical science. Every material system can exist as an entity only so long as its internal forces, attraction, cohesion, etc., balance the external forces acting upon it. This is true for an ordinary stone just as much as for the most complex chemical substances; and its truth should be recognized also for the animal organism. Being a definite circumscribed material system, it can only continue to exist so long as it is in continuous equilibrium with the forces external to it: so soon as this equilibrium is seriously disturbed the organism will cease to exist as the entity it was. Reflexes are the elemental units in the mechanism of perpetual equilibration. Physiologists have studied and are studying at the present time these numerous machine-like, inevitable reactions of the organism-reflexes existing from the very birth of the animal, and due therefore to the inherent organization of the nervous system. Reflexes, like the driving-belts of machines of human design, may be of two kinds-positive and negative, excitatory and inhibitory. Although the investigation of these reflexes by physiologists has been going on now for a long time, it is as yet not nearly finished. Fresh reflexes are continually being discovered. We are ignorant of the properties of those receptor organs for which the effective stimulus arises inside the organism, and the internal reflexes themselves remain a field unexplored. The paths by which nervous impulses are conducted in the central nervous system are for the most part little known, or not ascertained at all. The mechanism of inhibitions confined within the central nervous system remains quite obscure: we know something only of those inhibitory reflexes which manifest themselves along the inhibitory efferent nerves. Furthermore, the combination and interaction of different reflexes are as yet insufficiently understood. Nevertheless physiologists are succeeding more and more in unravelling the mechanism of these machine-like activities of the organism, and may reasonably be expected to elucidate and control it in the end. To those reflexes which have long been the subject of physiological investigation, and which concern chiefly the activities of separate organs and tissues, there should be added another group of inborn reflexes. These also take place in the nervous system, and they are the inevitable reactions to perfectly definite stimuli. They have to do with reactions of the organism as a whole, and comprise that general behaviour of the animal which has been termed "instinctive." Since complete agreement as regards the essential affinity of these reactions to the reflex has not yet been attained, we must discuss this question more fully. We owe to the English philosopher, Herbert Spencer, the suggestion that instinctive reactions are reflexes.Ampleevidence was later advanced by zoologists, physiologists, and students of comparative psychology in support of this. I propose here to bring together the various arguments in favour of this view. Between the simplest reflex and the instinct we can find numerous stages of transition, and among these we are puzzled to find any line of demarcation. To exemplify this we may take the newly hatched chick. This little creature reacts by pecking to any stimulus that catches the eye, whether it be a real object or only a stain in the surface it is walking upon. In what way shall we say that this differs from the inclining of the head, the closing of the lids, when something flicks past its eyes? We should call this last a defensive reflex, but the first has been termed a feeding instinct: although in pecking: nothing but an inclination of the head and a movement of the beak occurs. It has also been maintained that instincts are more complex than reflexes. There are, however, exceedingly complex reflexes which nobody would term instincts. We may take vomiting as an example. This is very complex and involves the co-ordination of a large number of muscles (both striped and plain) spread over a large area and usually employed in quite different functions of the organism. It involves also a secretary activity on the part of certain glands which is usually evoked for a quite different purpose. Again, it has been assumed that the long train of actions involved in certain instinctive activities affords a distinctive point of contrast with the reflex, which is regarded as always being built on a simple scale. By way of example we may take the building of a nest, or of dwellings in general, by animals. A chain of incidents is linked; together: material is gathered and carried to the site chosen; there it is built up and strengthened. To look upon this as reflex we must assume that one reflex initiates the next following — or, in other words, we must regard it as a chain-reflex. But this linking up of activities is not peculiar to instincts alone. We are familiar with numerous reflexes which most certainly fuse into chains. Thus, for example, if we stimulate an afferent nerve, e.g. the sciatic nerve, a reflex rise of blood pressure occurs; the high pressure in the left ventricle of the heart, and first part of the aorta, serves as the effective stimulus to a second reflex, this time a depressor reflex which has a moderating influence on the first. Again, we may take one of the chain reflexes recently established by Magnus. A cat, even when deprived of its cerebral hemispheres, will in most cases land on its feet when thrown from a height. How is this managed? When the position of the otolithic organ in space is altered a definite reflex is evoked which brings about a contraction of the muscles in the neck, restoring the animal's head to the normal position. This is the first reflex. With the righting of the head a fresh reflex is evoked, and certain muscles of the trunk and limbs are brought into play, restoring the animal to the standing posture. This is the second reflex. Some, again, object to the identification of instincts with reflexes on this ground: instincts, they say, frequently depend upon the internal state of an organism. For instance, a bird only builds its nest in the mating season. Or, to take a simpler case, when an animal is satiated with eating, then food has no longer any attraction and the animal leaves off eating. Again, the same is true of the sexual impulse. This depends on the age of the organism, and on the state of the reproductive glands; and a considerable influence is exerted by hormones (the products of the glands of internal secretion). But this dependence cannot be claimed as a peculiar property of "instincts." The intensity of any reflex, indeed its very presence, is dependent on the irritability of the centres, which in turn depends constantly on the physical and chemical properties of the blood (automatic stimulation of centres) and on the interaction of reflexes. Last of all, it is sometimes held that whereas reflexes determine only the activities of single organs and tissues, instincts involve the activity of the organism as a whole. We now know, however, from the recent investigations of Magnus and de Kleijn, that standing, walking and the maintenance of postural balance in general, are all nothing but reflexes. It follow from all this that instincts and reflexes are alike the inevitable responses of the organism to internal and external stimuli, and therefore we have no need to call them by two different terms. Reflex has the better claim of the two, in that it has been used from the very beginning with a strictly scientific connotation. The aggregate of reflexes constitutes the foundation of the nervous activities both of men and of animals. It is therefore of great importance to study in detail all the fundamental reflexes of the organism. Up to the present, unfortunately, this is far from being accomplished, especially, as I have mentioned before, in the case of those reflexes which have been known vaguely as " instincts." Our knowledge of these latter is very limited and fragmentary. Their classification under such headings as "alimentary," "defensive," "sexual," "parental" and "social" instincts, is thoroughly inadequate. Under each of these heads is assembled often a large number of individual reflexes. Some of these are quite unidentified; some are confused with others; and many are still only partially appreciated. I can demonstrate from my own experience to what extent the subject remains inchoate and full of gaps. In the course of the researches which I shall presently explain; we were completely at a loss on one occasion to find any cause for the peculiar behaviour of an animal. It was evidently a very tractable dog, which soon became very friendly with us. We started off with a very simple experiment. The dog was placed in a stand with loose loops round its legs, but so as to be quite comfortable and free to move a pace or two. Nothing more was done except to present the animal repeatedly with food at intervals of some minutes. It stood quietly enough at first, and ate quite readily, but as time went on it became excited and struggled to get out of the stand, scratching at the floor, gnawing the supports, and so on. This ceaseless muscular exertion was accompanied by breathlessness and continuous salivation, which persisted at every experiment during several weeks, the animal getting worse and worse until it was no longer fitted for our researches. For a long time we remained puzzled over the unusual behaviour of this animal. We tried out experimentally numerous possible interpretations, but though we had had long experience with a great number of dogs in our laboratories we could not work out a satisfactory solution of this strange behaviour, until it occurred to us at lazst that it might be the expression of a special freedom reflex, and that the dog simply could not remain quiet when it was constrained in the stand. This reflex was overcome by setting off another against it -- the reflex for food. We began to give the dog the whole of its food in the stand. At first the animal ate but little, and lost considerably in weight, but gradually it got to eat more, until at last the whole ration was consumed. At the same time the animal grew quieter during the course of the experiments: the freedom reflex was being inhibited. It is clear that the freedom reflex is one of the most important reflexes, or, if we use a more general term, reactions, of living beings. This reflex has even yet to find its final recognition. In James's writings it is not even enumerated among the special human "instincts." But it is clear that if the animal were not provided with a reflex of protest against boundaries set to its freedom, the smallest obstacle in its path would interfere with the proper fulfilment of its natural functions. Some animals as we all know have this freedom reflex to such a degree that when placed in captivity they refuse all food, sicken and die. As another example of a reflex which is very much neglected we may refer to what may be called the investigatory reflex. I call it the "What-is-it?" reflex. It is this reflex which brings about the immediate response in man and animals to the slightest changes in the world around them, so that they immediately orientate their appropriate receptor organ in accordance with the perceptible quality in the agent bringing about the change, making full investigation of it. The biological significance of this reflex is obvious. If the animal were not provided with such a reflex its life would hang at every moment by a thread. In man this reflex has been greatly developed with far-reaching results, being represented in its highest form by inquisitiveness -- the parent of that scientific method through which we may hope one day to come to a true orientation in knowledge of the world around us. Still less has been done towards the elucidation of the class of negative or inhibitory reflexes (instincts) which are often evoked by any strong stimulus or even by weak stimuli, if unusual. Animal hypnotism, so-called, belongs to this category. As the fundamental nervous reactions both of men and of animals are inborn in the form of definite reflexes, I must again emphasize how important it is to compile a complete list comprising all these reflexes with their adequate classification. For, as will be shown later on, all the remaining nervous functions of the animal organism are based upon these reflexes. Now, although the possession of such reflexes as those just described constitutes the fundamental condition for the natural survival of the animal, they are not in themselves sufficient to ensure a prolonged, stable and normal existence. This can be shown in dogs in which the cerebral hemispheres have been removed. Leaving out of account the internal reflexes, such a dog still retains the fundamental external reflexes. It is attracted by food; it is repelled by nocuous stimuli; it exhibits the investigatory reflex, raising its head and pricking up its ears to sound. In addition it exhibits the freedom reflex, offering a powerful resistance to any restraint. Nevertheless it is wholly incapable of looking after itself, and if left to itself will very soon die. Evidently something important is missing in its present nervous make-up. What nervous activities can it have lost? It is easily seen that, in this dog, the number of stimuli evoking reflex reaction is considerably diminished; those remaining are of an elemental, generalized nature, and act at a very short range. Consequently the dynamic equilibrium between the inner forces of the animal system and the external forces in its environment has become elemental as compared with the exquisite adaptability of the normal animal, and the simpler balance is obviously inadequate to life. Let us return now to the simplest reflex from which our investigations started. If food or some rejectable substance finds its way into the mouth, a secretion of saliva is produced. The purpose of this secretion is in the case of food to alter it chemically, in the case of a rejectable substance to dilute and wash it out of the mouth. This is an example of a reflex due to the physical and chemical properties of a substance when it comes into contact with the mucous membrane of the mouth and tongue. But, in addition to this, a similar reflex secretion is evoked when these substances are placed at a distance from the dog and the receptor organs affected are only those of smell and sight. Even the vessel from which the food has been given is sufficient to evoke an alimentary reflex complete in all its details; and, further, the secretion may be provoked even by the sight of the person who brought the vessel, or by the sound of his footsteps. All these innumerable stimuli falling upon the several finely discriminating distance receptors lose their power for ever as soon as the hemispheres are taken from the animal, and those only which have a direct effect on mouth and tongue still retain their power. The great advantage to the organism of a capacity to react to the former stimuli is evident, for it is in virtue of their action that food finding its way into the mouth immediately encounters plenty of moistening saliva, and rejectable substances, often nocuous to the mucous membrane, find a layer of protective saliva already in the mouth which rapidly dilutes and washes them out. Even greater is their importance when they evoke the motor component of the complex reflex of nutrition, i.e. when they act as stimuli to the reflex of seeking food. Here is another example - the reflex of self-defence. The strong carnivorous animal preys on weaker animals, and these if they waited to defend themselves until the teeth of the foe were in their flesh would speedily be exterminated. The case takes on a different aspect when the defence reflex is called into play by the sights and sounds of the enemy's approach. Then the prey has a chance to save itself by hiding or by flight. How can we describe, in general, this difference in the dynamic balance of life between the normal and the decorticated animal? What is the general mechanism and law of this distinction? It is pretty evident that under natural conditions the normal animal must respond not only to stimuli which themselves bring immediate benefit or harm, but also to other physical or chemical agencies - waves of sound, light, and the like -- which in themselves only signal the approach of these stimuli; though it is not the sight and sound of the beast of prey which is in itself harmful to the smaller animal, but its teeth and claws. Now although the signalling stimuli do play a part in those comparatively simple reflexes we have given as examples, yet this is not the most important point. The essential feature of the highest activity of the central nervous system, with which we are concerned and which in the higher animals most probably belongs entirely to the hemispheres, consists not in the fact that innumerable signalling stimuli do initiate reflex reactions in the animal, but in the fact that under different conditions these same stimuli may initiate quite different reflex reactions; and conversely the same reaction may be initiated by different stimuli. In the above-mentioned example of the salivary reflex, the signal at one time is one particular vessel, at another time another; under certain conditions one man, under different conditions another-strictly depending upon which vessel had been used in feeding and which man had brought the vessel and given food to the dog. This evidently makes the machine-like responsive activities of the organism still more precise, and adds to it qualities of yet higher perfection. So infinitely complex, so continuously in flux, are the conditions in the world around, that complex animal system which is itself in living flux, and that system only, has a chance to establish dynamic equilibrium with the environment. Thus we see that the fundamental and the most general function of the hemispheres is that of reacting to signals presented by innumerable of interchangeable signification. References - 1.Goltz F. “Der Hund ohneGrosshirn,“. Pfluger's Archiv, V. li. 1892:570. [Google Scholar] - 2.Rothmann M. “Der Hund ohne Grosshirn.“. Neurologischcs Celtralblatt, V. xxviii. 1909:1045. [Google Scholar] - 3.Fritsch und Hitzig E. “Ueber die elektrische Erregbarkeit des Grosshirns.”. Arckivfur(Anatomie und) Physiologie. 1870:300. [Google Scholar] - 4.Ferrier D. Functions of the Brain, London. 1876 [Google Scholar] - 5.Munk H. Ueber die Functionen der Grosskirnrinde. Berlin. 18901909 [Google Scholar] - 6.Magnus R. Korperstellung. Berlin. 1924 [Google Scholar] - 7.Sherrington CS. The Integrative Action of the Nervous System. London. 1906 [Google Scholar] - 8.Richet C. Reflexes Psychiques. Reflexes Conditioned. Automatisme Mental. Pavlov's Jubilee Volume, Petrograd. 1925 [Google Scholar] - 9.Loeb J. Studies in General Physiology. Chicago. 1905 [Google Scholar] - 10.Beer , Uexküll Bethe und. “Vorschlage zu einer objectivirenden Nomenklatur in der Physiologie des Nervensystems,“. Biologisches Centralblatt.V., xix. 1899:517. [Google Scholar] - 11.Jennings HS. The Behavior of Lower Organisms. New York. 1906 [Google Scholar] - 12.Thorndyke EL. The Animal Intelligence, An Experimental Study of the Associative Processes in Animals. New York. 1898 [Google Scholar]


--- [Pavlov's Dogs Experiment & Pavlovian Conditioning Response] ---
Like many great scientific advances, Pavlovian conditioning (aka classical conditioning) was discovered accidentally. Ivan Petrovich Pavlov (1849–1936) was a physiologist, not a psychologist. During the 1890s, Pavlov researched salivation in dogs in response to being fed. He inserted a small test tube into the cheek of each dog to measure saliva when the dogs were fed (with a powder made from meat). Pavlov expected his dogs to salivate for food, but noticed they began salivating at the mere sound of his assistant’s approaching footsteps. Pavlov realized these were learned responses to incidental stimuli associated with feeding, which he termed ‘psychic secretions’. To investigate this phenomenon scientifically, Pavlov designed a controlled experiment to see if he could teach a dog to respond to a neutral stimulus that had no natural connection to food, such as a bell, a metronome, a light, or a touch on the leg. Pavlov’s Dog Experiment Pavlov (1902) started from the idea that there are some things that a dog does not need to learn. For example, dogs don’t learn to salivate whenever they see food. This reflex is ‘hard-wired’ into the dog. Pavlov showed that dogs could be conditioned to salivate at the sound of a bell if that sound was repeatedly presented at the same time that they were given food. The Experimental Setup To maintain scientific rigor, Pavlov situated his dogs in secluded environments, secured within harnesses to minimize distractions. - The Apparatus: A food bowl was placed before the dog. Pavlov surgically attached a tube (fistula) directly to the dog’s salivary glands. This allowed the liquid to be diverted away from the throat and into a measuring container. - Data Collection: Measurements were recorded onto a rotating drum (a kymograph), allowing Pavlov to meticulously monitor salivation rates in real-time. Classical Conditioning Classical conditioning (also known as Pavlovian conditioning) is a theory of learning that posits behaviors are acquired through the association between an environmental stimulus and a naturally occurring stimulus. As later developed by behaviorists like John B. Watson, this process involves pairing a neutral signal with a reflex to trigger a specific response. The process unfolds in three distinct stages: 1. Before Conditioning: Establishing the Baseline In this stage, we identify two unrelated elements: - Unconditioned Stimulus (UCS): A stimulus that naturally and automatically triggers a response without any prior learning. In Pavlov’s lab, this was the food. - Unconditioned Response (UCR): An automatic, innate reaction to the UCS. For the dogs, this was the physiological act of salivating. - Neutral Stimulus (NS): A stimulus that initially elicits no relevant response or reflex action. Pavlov used a metronome (or bell), which initially had no effect on the dog’s salivation. The Baseline State: Unconditioned Stimulus (Food) > Unconditioned Response (Salivate) Neutral Stimulus (Metronome) > No Response 2. During Conditioning: The Acquisition Phase This is the learning stage, where the association is built through a series of Trials. Pavlov repeatedly introduced the Neutral Stimulus (Metronome) immediately before presenting the Unconditioned Stimulus (Food). Through temporal contiguity (the closeness in time of the two events), the dog begins to link the sound of the metronome with the arrival of food. During these trials, the dog is still salivating because of the food, but the connection is being “acquired.” The Trial Phase: - NS (Metronome) + UCS (Food) > Unconditioned Response (Salivate) 3. After Conditioning: The Learned Response After a sufficient number of pairings, the neutral stimulus loses its neutrality and becomes the Conditioned Stimulus (CS). The dog now salivates upon hearing the metronome alone, even if the food is not presented. This learned reaction is called the Conditioned Response (CR). While the CR looks identical to the original UCR (salivation), it is distinguished by the fact that it is now triggered by a learned signal rather than a biological necessity. The Conditioned State: - Conditioned Stimulus (Metronome) > Conditioned Response (Salivation) | Term | Definition | Pavlov’s Example | | UCS | Natural trigger for a reflex | Food / Meat Powder | | UCR | The innate, unlearned reflex | Salivation (to food) | | NS | A stimulus with no initial effect | Metronome / Bell | | CS | The learned trigger (formerly the NS) | Metronome / Bell (after trials) | | CR | The learned response to the CS | Salivation (to the sound) | Related Principles Temporal contiguity Pavlov found that for associations to be made, the two stimuli had to be presented close together in time (such as a bell). He called this the law of temporal contiguity. If the time between the conditioned stimulus (bell) and the unconditioned stimulus (food) is too great, then learning will not occur. ‘Unconditioning’ through experimental extinction In extinction, the conditioned stimulus (the bell) is repeatedly presented without the unconditioned stimulus (the food). Over time, the dog stops associating the sound of the bell with the food, and the conditioned response (salivation) weakens and eventually disappears. In other words, the conditioned response is “unconditioned” or “extinguished.” Spontaneous recovery Pavlov noted the occurrence of “spontaneous recovery,” where the conditioned response can briefly reappear when the conditioned stimulus is presented after a rest period, even though the response has been extinguished. This discovery added to the understanding of conditioning and extinction, indicating that these learned associations, while they can fade, are not completely forgotten. Generalization Subjects often respond to stimuli that are similar to the original CS. For example, a dog conditioned to a bell might also salivate at the sound of a buzzer. However, the response tends to be more pronounced when the new stimulus closely resembles the original one used in conditioning. This relationship between the similarity of the stimulus and the strength of the response is known as the generalization gradient. This principle has been exemplified in research, including a study conducted by Meulders and colleagues in 2013. Impact of Pavlov’s Research Ivan Pavlov’s research did more than explain why dogs drool; it fundamentally transformed psychology from a subjective study of the mind into an objective, experimental science. By focusing on “psychic secretions” (observable, measurable physiological responses), he provided a rigorous methodology that still anchors modern research. 1. The Foundation of Behaviorism Before Pavlov, psychology relied on introspection (reporting inner thoughts). Pavlov initially hesitated to study psychology because it lacked “exactness.” However, his work proved that: - Observable Behavior is Key: Complex actions could be reduced to simple stimulus-response units. - Environmental Dominance: His findings heavily influenced John B. Watson, who argued that psychology should focus exclusively on observable behavior rather than hidden mental states. This shift launched Behaviorism as the dominant psychological school of the 20th century. 2. Clinical Applications and Therapy Pavlovian principles are the active ingredients in several evidence-based treatments used today: - Systematic Desensitization: Developed by Joseph Wolpe, this therapy treats phobias by counter-conditioning. Patients pair a feared stimulus (e.g., a spider) with relaxation techniques, breaking the old fear association. - Exposure Therapy: Used for PTSD and anxiety, this involves repeatedly presenting the conditioned stimulus (the trigger) without the unconditioned stimulus (the danger) until the response is extinguished. - Aversion Therapy: Maladaptive behaviors (like alcohol use) are paired with unpleasant stimuli (like nausea-inducing drugs) to create a learned avoidance. 3. Understanding Human Emotion: The “Little Albert” Experiment In 1920, Watson and Rayner applied Pavlov’s principles to a human infant, Little Albert. - Conditioning: They paired a neutral white rat with a loud, frightening noise (UCS). - Generalization: Albert soon feared not only the rat but also a rabbit, a dog, and even a Santa Claus mask. - Significance: This proved that emotions like fear are learned through environmental associations, rather than being the result of deep-seated unconscious conflicts. 4. Health, Neuroscience, and the “Garcia Effect” Pavlov’s influence extends into the very biology of our bodies: - Psychoneuroimmunology: Ader and Cohen (1975) showed that the immune system can be conditioned. They paired saccharin water with an immunosuppressive drug; eventually, the water alone suppressed the rats’ immune responses. - The Garcia Effect (Taste Aversion): John Garcia found that organisms are biologically “prepared” to learn certain associations. A single instance of sickness after eating a specific food creates a lifelong aversion: a survival mechanism that happens even if there is a long delay between the taste and the illness. - Neural Basis of Learning: Neuroscientists like Eric Kandel identified Long-Term Potentiation (LTP), the cellular process where “neurons that fire together, wire together”, providing the physical evidence for Pavlov’s associative theories. 5. Modern Marketing and Everyday Life Pavlov’s “bell” is ringing everywhere in the 21st century: - Marketing: Advertisers pair products with unconditioned stimuli like catchy music, attractive people, or beautiful scenery to elicit a positive emotional response (CR) toward the brand. - Educational Strategies: Rote memorization and repetitive learning use the association between a cue (question) and a response (answer) to reinforce memory. - Predictive Brain: Modern learning theory (like the Rescorla-Wagner model) explains that our brains are constantly calculating “prediction errors”, the difference between what we expect to happen and what actually happens, to update our understanding of the world. Critical Evaluation Artificial Settings: Pavlov’s experiments were conducted in highly controlled laboratory environments (e.g., soundproof rooms, harnesses). Critics argue that these artificial settings lack ecological validity, meaning the findings may not perfectly translate to the messy, uncontrolled variables of the real world. Lack of Complexity: While Pavlov’s principles explain involuntary reflexes (like salivation or fear responses), they are less effective at explaining voluntary, complex human behaviors, which are better addressed by operant conditioning or social learning theories. Instinctive Drift: Work by the Brelands showed that animals would eventually drift back toward their instinctive behaviors, overriding their conditioning. For example, raccoons conditioned to drop coins into a box would eventually start rubbing them together (washing behavior) instead, illustrating that biological instincts can inhibit or override conditioned behaviors. The Garcia Effect (Taste Aversion): John Garcia’s research on taste aversion fundamentally challenged Pavlov’s rules regarding timing. Pavlov asserted that the CS and UCS must occur within seconds of each other. Garcia found that rats (and humans) could learn to avoid a food (CS) even if the nausea (UCR) occurred up to eight hours later. Furthermore, this conditioning could happen after a single exposure, contradicting Pavlov’s requirement for repeated pairings. Biological Preparedness: Researchers like Martin Seligman argued that animals and humans are evolutionarily prepared to fear certain stimuli that pose survival threats, such as snakes or heights, much more easily than neutral objects like flowers. This challenges Pavlov’s notion that all stimuli are equally capable of becoming conditioned stimuli. Prediction vs. Contiguity: Pavlov believed conditioning occurred simply because the conditioned stimulus (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (UCS) were paired close together in time (contiguity). However, later research by Rescorla and Wagner (1972) demonstrated that prediction and expectation are more critical than simple pairing. If a stimulus does not provide new information or reliably predict the outcome (a concept known as “blocking”), conditioning does not occur, suggesting an underlying cognitive calculation rather than a simple mechanical association. Modern Perspectives on Pavlovian Conditioning While traditional descriptions focus on simple stimulus-response (S-R) chains, contemporary research suggests that Pavlovian conditioning is a sophisticated information-processing system. 1. The Functional Perspective: Evolution and Ecology Traditional lab studies often use arbitrary stimuli (like a bell). However, as Domjan (2005) argues, conditioning evolved to serve an adaptive function in the natural world. - Ecological Relevance: For conditioning to occur naturally, the Conditioned Stimulus (CS) is rarely arbitrary. It is usually a precursor or a feature of the Unconditioned Stimulus (US) itself—such as the scent of prey before an attack or the taste of a plant before illness. - Preparatory Function: Conditioning is not just about mimicking a reflex; it prepares the organism for biological events. It often produces compensatory responses that allow the organism to cope with the coming US more effectively. - Modifying the UR: The most critical change in conditioning may not be the new response (CR), but rather the modification of the original response (UR) to make the interaction with the environment more efficient. 2. The Informational Perspective: Beyond Simple Pairing Rescorla (1988) famously challenged the idea that mere “pairing” creates learning. Instead, he proposed that conditioning is about contingency and information. - Mental Representations: Organisms do not just link two things; they build complex mental maps of their environment. - Predictive Value: Conditioning only occurs if the CS provides reliable information about the US. If a sound happens all the time without food, the dog learns that the sound is “noise” and ignores it. - Encoding Relationships: Modern theory views conditioning as the rapid encoding of relationships among a broad range of stimuli, allowing for a multifaceted representation of the world. The HeiDI Model: A Modern Framework To address the limitations of older models (like Rescorla-Wagner), Honey, Dwyer, and Iliescu (2020, 2022) developed the HeiDI model. The name reflects both the authors and the model’s core mechanism: Bi-directional (reciprocal) associations. How HeiDI Differs from Traditional Models HeiDI differs by allowing reciprocal CS-US and US-CS associations. It uses consistent learning rules applied to all stimulus pairs. The simulations suggest HeiDI explains Rescorla’s results via two mechanisms: - Changes in US-CS associations during compound conditioning, allowing greater change in some US-CS links - Indirect influences of CS-CS associations enabling compounds to recruit associative strength from absent stimuli HeiDI integrates various conditioning phenomena and retains key Rescorla-Wagner insights about surprise driving learning. However, it moves beyond the limitations of Rescorla-Wagner by providing a framework to address how learning translates into performance. | Feature | Traditional Models (e.g., Rescorla-Wagner) | The HeiDI Model | | Direction | One-way ($CS \rightarrow US$) | Reciprocal/Bidirectional ($CS \leftrightarrow US$) | | CS-CS Links | Often ignored | Central; allows stimuli to “recruit” strength from absent cues | | Learning Rule | Driven primarily by “surprise” | Consistent rules applied to all stimulus pairs | | Focus | Predicting the response | Explaining how learning translates into performance | References - Ader, R., & Cohen, N. (1975). Behaviorally conditioned immunosuppression. Biopsychosocial Science and Medicine, 37(4), 333-340. - Breland, K., & Breland, M. (1961). The misbehavior of organisms. American psychologist, 16(11), 681. - Domjan, M. (2005). Pavlovian conditioning: A functional perspective. Annu. Rev. Psychol., 56, 179-206. - Garcia, J., Lasiter, P. S., BERMUDEZ‐RATTONI, F. E. D. E. R. I. C. O., & Deems, D. A. (1985). A general theory of aversion learning a. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 443(1), 8-21. - Honey, R.C., Dwyer, D.M., & Iliescu, A.F. (2020a). HeiDI: A model for Pavlovian learning and performance with reciprocal associations. Psychological Review, 127, 829-852. - Honey, R. C., Dwyer, D. M., & Iliescu, A. F. (2022). Associative change in Pavlovian conditioning: A reappraisal. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Learning and Cognition. - Martinez Jr, J. L., & Derrick, B. E. (1996). Long-term potentiation and learning. Annual review of psychology, 47(1), 173-203. - Meulders A, Vandebroek, N. Vervliet, B. and Vlaeyen, J.W.S. (2013). Generalization Gradients in Cued and Contextual Pain-Related Fear: An Experimental Study in Health Participants. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 7(345). 1-12. - Pavlov, I. P. (1897/1902). The work of the digestive glands. London: Griffin. - Pavlov, I. P. (1928). Lectures on conditioned reflexes. (Translated by W.H. Gantt) London: Allen and Unwin. - Pavlov, I. P. (1927). Conditioned Reflexes: An Investigation of the Physiological Activity of the Cerebral Cortex. Translated and edited by Anrep, GV (Oxford University Press, London, 1927). - Rescorla, R. A. (1988). Pavlovian conditioning: It’s not what you think it is. American Psychologist, 43(3), 151. - Pavlov, I. P. (1955). Selected works. Moscow: Foreign Languages Publishing House. - Rescorla, R. A. (1972). A theory of Pavlovian conditioning: Variations in the effectiveness of reinforcement and non-reinforcement. Classical conditioning, Current research and theory, 2, 64-69. - Seligman, M. E. (1971). Phobias and preparedness. Behavior therapy, 2(3), 307-320. - Watson, J.B. (1913). Psychology as the behaviorist Views It. Psychological Review, 20, 158-177. - Watson, J. B., & Rayner, R. (1920). Conditioned emotional reactions. Journal of experimental psychology, 3(1), 1. - Weiss, S. J. (1972). Stimulus compounding in free-operant and classical conditioning: A review and analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 78(3), 189. What was the main point of Ivan Pavlov’s experiment with dogs? The main point of Ivan Pavlov’s experiment with dogs was to study and demonstrate the concept of classical conditioning. Pavlov showed that dogs could be conditioned to associate a neutral stimulus (such as a bell) with a reflexive response (such as salivation) by repeatedly pairing the two stimuli together. This experiment highlighted the learning process through the association of stimuli and laid the foundation for understanding how behaviors can be modified through conditioning. What is Pavlovian response? The Pavlovian response, also known as a conditioned response, refers to a learned, automatic, and involuntary response elicited by a previously neutral stimulus through classical conditioning. It is a key concept in Pavlov’s experiments, where dogs learned to salivate in response to a bell. When did Pavlov discover classical conditioning? Ivan Pavlov discovered classical conditioning during his dog experiments in the late 1890s and early 1900s. His seminal work on classical conditioning, often called Pavlovian conditioning, laid the foundation for our understanding of associative learning and its role in behavior modification.


--- [Ivan Pavlov - an overview | ScienceDirect Topics] ---
No content


--- [Ivan Pavlov - Biographical - NobelPrize.org] ---
Ivan Pavlov Biographical Ivan Petrovich Pavlov was born on September 14, 1849 at Ryazan, where his father, Peter Dmitrievich Pavlov, was a village priest. He was educated first at the church school in Ryazan and then at the theological seminary there. Inspired by the progressive ideas which D. I. Pisarev, the most eminent of the Russian literary critics of the 1860’s and I. M. Sechenov, the father of Russian physiology, were spreading, Pavlov abandoned his religious career and decided to devote his life to science. In 1870 he enrolled in the physics and mathematics faculty to take the course in natural science. Pavlov became passionately absorbed with physiology, which in fact was to remain of such fundamental importance to him throughout his life. It was during this first course that he produced, in collaboration with another student, Afanasyev, his first learned treatise, a work on the physiology of the pancreatic nerves. This work was widely acclaimed and he was awarded a gold medal for it. In 1875 Pavlov completed his course with an outstanding record and received the degree of Candidate of Natural Sciences. However, impelled by his overwhelming interest in physiology, he decided to continue his studies and proceeded to the Academy of Medical Surgery to take the third course there. He completed this in 1879 and was again awarded a gold medal. After a competitive examination, Pavlov won a fellowship at the Academy, and this together with his position as Director of the Physiological Laboratory at the clinic of the famous Russian clinician, S. P. Botkin, enabled him to continue his research work. In 1883 he presented his doctor’s thesis on the subject of «The centrifugal nerves of the heart». In this work he developed his idea of nervism, using as example the intensifying nerve of the heart which he had discovered, and furthermore laid down the basic principles on the trophic function of the nervous system. In this as well as in other works, resulting mainly from his research in the laboratory at the Botkin clinic, Pavlov showed that there existed a basic pattern in the reflex regulation of the activity of the circulatory organs. In 1890 Pavlov was invited to organize and direct the Department of Physiology at the Institute of Experimental Medicine. Under his direction, which continued over a period of 45 years to the end of his life, this Institute became one of the most important centres of physiological research. In 1890 Pavlov was appointed Professor of Pharmacology at the Military Medical Academy and five years later he was appointed to the then vacant Chair of Physiology, which he held till 1925. It was at the Institute of Experimental Medicine in the years 1891-1900 that Pavlov did the bulk of his research on the physiology of digestion. It was here that he developed the surgical method of the «chronic» experiment with extensive use of fistulas, which enabled the functions of various organs to be observed continuously under relatively normal conditions. This discovery opened a new era in the development of physiology, for until then the principal method used had been that of «acute» vivisection, and the function of an organism had only been arrived at by a process of analysis. This meant that research into the functioning of any organ necessitated disruption of the normal interrelation between the organ and its environment. Such a method was inadequate as a means of determining how the functions of an organ were regulated or of discovering the laws governing the organism as a whole under normal conditions – problems which had hampered the development of all medical science. With his method of research, Pavlov opened the way for new advances in theoretical and practical medicine. With extreme clarity he showed that the nervous system played the dominant part in regulating the digestive process, and this discovery is in fact the basis of modern physiology of digestion. Pavlov made known the results of his research in this field, which is of great importance in practical medicine, in lectures which he delivered in 1895 and published under the title Lektsii o rabote glavnykh pishchevaritelnyteh zhelez (Lectures on the function of the principal digestive glands) (1897). Pavlov’s research into the physiology of digestion led him logically to create a science of conditioned reflexes. In his study of the reflex regulation of the activity of the digestive glands, Pavlov paid special attention to the phenomenon of «psychic secretion», which is caused by food stimuli at a distance from the animal. By employing the method – developed by his colleague D. D. Glinskii in 1895 – of establishing fistulas in the ducts of the salivary glands, Pavlov was able to carry out experiments on the nature of these glands. A series of these experiments caused Pavlov to reject the subjective interpretation of «psychic» salivary secretion and, on the basis of Sechenov’s hypothesis that psychic activity was of a reflex nature, to conclude that even here a reflex – though not a permanent but a temporary or conditioned one – was involved. This discovery of the function of conditioned reflexes made it possible to study all psychic activity objectively, instead of resorting to subjective methods as had hitherto been necessary; it was now possible to investigate by experimental means the most complex interrelations between an organism and its external environment. In 1903, at the 14th International Medical Congress in Madrid, Pavlov read a paper on «The Experimental Psychology and Psychopathology of Animals». In this paper the definition of conditioned and other reflexes was given and it was shown that a conditioned reflex should be regarded as an elementary psychological phenomenon, which at the same time is a physiological one. It followed from this that the conditioned reflex was a clue to the mechanism of the most highly developed forms of reaction in animals and humans to their environment and it made an objective study of their psychic activity possible. Subsequently, in a systematic programme of research, Pavlov transformed Sechenov’s theoretical attempt to discover the reflex mechanisms of psychic activity into an experimentally proven theory of conditioned reflexes. As guiding principles of materialistic teaching on the laws governing the activity of living organisms, Pavlov deduced three principles for the theory of reflexes: the principle of determinism, the principle of analysis and synthesis, and the principle of structure. The development of these principles by Pavlov and his school helped greatly towards the building-up of a scientific theory of medicine and towards the discovery of laws governing the functioning of the organism as a whole. Experiments carried out by Pavlov and his pupils showed that conditioned reflexes originate in the cerebral cortex, which acts as the «prime distributor and organizer of all activity of the organism» and which is responsible for the very delicate equilibrium of an animal with its environment. In 1905 it was established that any external agent could, by coinciding in time with an ordinary reflex, become the conditioned signal for the formation of a new conditioned reflex. In connection with the discovery of this general postulate Pavlov proceeded to investigate «artificial conditioned reflexes». Research in Pavlov’s laboratories over a number of years revealed for the first time the basic laws governing the functioning of the cortex of the great hemispheres. Many physiologists were drawn to the problem of developing Pavlov’s basic laws governing the activity of the cerebrum. As a result of all this research there emerged an integrated Pavlovian theory on higher nervous activity. Even in the early stages of his research Pavlov received world acclaim and recognition. In 1901 he was elected a corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, in 1904 he was awarded a Nobel Prize, and in 1907 he was elected Academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences; in 1912 he was given an honorary doctorate at Cambridge University and in the following years honorary membership of various scientific societies abroad. Finally, upon the recommendation of the Medical Academy of Paris, he was awarded the Order of the Legion of Honour (1915). After the October Revolution, a special government decree, signed by Lenin on January 24, 1921, noted «the outstanding scientific services of Academician I.P.Pavlov, which are of enormous significance to the working class of the whole world». The Communist Party and the Soviet Government saw to it that Pavlov and his collaborators were given unlimited scope for scientific research. The Soviet Union became a prominent centre for the study of physiology, and the fact that the 15th International Physiological Congress of August 9-17, 1935, was held in Leningrad and Moscow clearly shows that it was acknowledged as such. Pavlov directed all his indefatigable energy towards scientific reforms. He devoted much effort to transforming the physiological institutions headed by him into world centres of scientific knowledge, and it is generally acknowledged that he succeeded in this endeavour. Pavlov nurtured a great school of physiologists, which produced many distinguished pupils. He left the richest scientific legacy – a brilliant group of pupils, who would continue developing the ideas of their master, and a host of followers all over the world. In 1881, Pavlov married Seraphima (Sara) Vasilievna Karchevskaya, a teacher, the daughter of a doctor in the Black Sea fleet. She first had a miscarriage, said to be due to her having to run after her very fast-walking husband. Subsequently they had a son, Wirchik, who died very suddenly as a child; three sons, Vladimir, Victor and Vsevolod, one of whom was a well-known physicist and professor of physics at Leningrad in 1925, and a daughter, Vera. Dr. Pavlov died in Leningrad on February 27, 1936. This autobiography/biography was written at the time of the award and first published in the book series Les Prix Nobel. It was later edited and republished in Nobel Lectures. To cite this document, always state the source as shown above. The Nobel Foundation's copyright has expired.Nobel Prizes and laureates Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 14 laureates' work and discoveries range from quantum tunnelling to promoting democratic rights. See them all presented here.
