=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Society of Illustrators - Wikipedia]
In 1954, the U.S. Air Force began sending Society of Illustrators members around the world to document the Air Force's activities. This program continues today. Thousands of paintings have been contributed over the years. In 1959, the society hold its first Annual Exhibition, juried by Bob ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Society_of_Illustrators

[History of the Society - Society of Illustrators]
In 1959, members Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson and Stevan Dohanos, among others, juried the First Annual Exhibition that resulted in a show of 350 original artworks. The first Illustrators Annual book followed. For the 25th edition, the book went to full color and in 2005 the format changed from hard to soft cover. In 2009, the system for gathering entries and the jurying process went fully digital – although the art was open to all media. The Society’s commitment to community involvement has included the participation of Society members, from 1961 to 1965...
URL: https://societyillustrators.org/about/history-of-the-society/

[Society of Illustrators explained]
In 1959, the society hold its first Annual Exhibition, juried by Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson, Stevan Dohanos, and others. It opened with 350 original works of art and led to the publication of the first Illustrators Annual.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Society_of_Illustrators/

[Society of Illustrators - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
In 1959, the Society held its first Annual Exhibition, juried by Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson, Stevan Dohanos and others. It opened with 350 original works of art and led to the publication of the first Illustrators Annual. In 2008, the Society celebrated its 50th Annual Exhibition.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/2882069

[Society of Illustrators - Drawing Workshops and Events]
Through member, Watson Barrett, the Illustrator's Show of 1925 was held at the Shubert Theatre and the Schuberts purchased the rights to the skits for their Broadway production of "Artists and Models." In time, those funds allowed the Society to acquire its present headquarters.
URL: https://www.newyorkartworld.com/things/things-si.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Society of Illustrators - Wikipedia] ---
The Society of Illustrators (SoI) is a professional society based in New York City. It was founded in 1901 to promote the art of illustration and, since 1959, has held an annual exhibition.
Since absorbing the Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art (MoCCA) in 2012, the Society has also promoted the art of comics. In addition to its holding exhibitions in its own Museum of American Illustration, the Society holds the annual MoCCA Festival, an independent comics showcase.


--- [History of the Society - Society of Illustrators] ---
On February 1, 1901, nine artists and one businessman founded the Society of Illustrators with the following credo: “The object of the Society shall be to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time.” This simple dictum has held true for over a century. At a time when illustration was in what has been called its Golden Age, the first monthly dinners were attended by prominent artists including Howard Pyle, Maxfield Parish, N.C. Wyeth, Charles Dana Gibson, Frederic Remington, James Montgomery Flagg, Howard Chandler Christy and special guests such as Mark Twain and Andrew Carnegie. During World War I, as part of a public relations effort by the U.S. government, Charles Dana Gibson was called upon to assemble a group of artists who would create posters to generate support for the war. Gibson, who served as president and helped bring the Society to national prominence, was an ardent advocate of the cause. He enlisted Flagg, Wyeth, Joseph Pennell and others—artists who would produce some of the war’s most lasting imagery. In a time before widespread use of journalistic photography, eight Society members were commissioned by the army and sent to France to sketch impressions of war. Following the armistice, the Society operated the School for Disabled Soldiers. Throughout its history, the Society’s members have been involved, either in service to, or, on occasion, in protest of American military activity. During and following the war, members continued to have exhibitions at prominent galleries in New York. Incorporated in the 1920s, the Society welcomed women to full membership, an anomaly to most social and professional organizations of the time. The Roaring Twenties and the decade of the Great Depression were the heyday of the Society’s Illustrators Shows (aka the Girlie Shows). Society members produced these popular entertainments – they wrote the theatrical skits and songs, created the sets, and were the actors, along with their models. Outside talent, such as the Cotton Club Band and Jimmy Durante, were called upon for their professional skills. Invitees to these well attended events included Jazz Age Mayor Jimmy Walker and Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, who, in 1935, luckily failed to attend the night police raided it due to the risqué nature of the nude dancing. In the early twenties, through the auspices of member Watson Barrett, the Illustrators Show was performed at the Shubert Theater, the success of which prompted the Shubert family to purchase the rights to the skits for their own production of Artists and Models in 1923. By the end of the thirties, those funds allowed the Society to acquire its present headquarters on the Upper East Side. Taking advantage of depressed real estate prices, illustrator Wallace Morgan found the building, which would become home to the Society in August 1939. Member Norman Rockwell’s painting, Dover Coach, became the background for the fourth floor bar. Today it continues this auspicious function at the third floor bar. The contribution of Society members during World War II was intense. They participated in massive poster campaigns, created illustrations from and about scenes of the war in Europe and the Pacific, and participated in a program whereby illustrators visited veterans’ hospitals to sketch the wounded. These portraits were then sent on to the subjects’ families as morale boosters. Putting other skills to work, the Illustrators’ Jazz Band was formed to entertain wounded troops. Following the war, the Society’s Welfare Fund was established in 1946 to aid artists in need. And in 1948 the Joint Ethics Committee, of which the Society is a member, developed the first Code of Ethics and Fair Practice to establish equitable relationships in the practices of selling and buying art. Lectures, demonstrations and drawing classes were, and continue to be, regularly held at the Society. In 1954, as part of the U.S. Air Force Art Program, illustrators were given the opportunity to travel around the world to military facilities and exercises to record these events and donate their works to a “grateful nation.” (While most trips were benign for the participating artist, in early 1968 during the Tet Offensive in Vietnam, some artists were caught in the fighting.) Thousands of paintings have been contributed to the program, which continues today. Similar programs for the U.S. Coast Guard and the National Parks Service are now in place as examples of the Society’s continuing contribution to the national welfare. While the Society’s support of the military has been longstanding, in 1972 members put on an anti-Vietnam War show titled “Genocide,” and in 2008 “Artists Against the War” was mounted in protest to the war in Iraq. The 1950s saw the creation of three of the Society’s most enduring institutions. Early in the decade, the first Scholarship Fund was established, a program that has benefited countless illustration students nationwide. In 1958 the Society’s Hall of Fame named Norman Rockwell as its first member. Selected annually by former presidents, this honor has since been bestowed on over 150 artists, living and posthumously, for “distinguished achievement in the art of illustration”. At the decade’s close, partly in reaction to the prevalence of photography in graphic arts competitions and exhibitions, especially those of the Art Directors Club of New York, the Society wanted to refocus attention to the art of illustration and the innovative pictorial responses to shifts in technology and the marketplace. In 1959, members Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson and Stevan Dohanos, among others, juried the First Annual Exhibition that resulted in a show of 350 original artworks. The first Illustrators Annual book followed. For the 25th edition, the book went to full color and in 2005 the format changed from hard to soft cover. In 2009, the system for gathering entries and the jurying process went fully digital – although the art was open to all media. The Society’s commitment to community involvement has included the participation of Society members, from 1961 to 1965, at the Saturday School of the Warwick Training School for Boys, what had been a “reform school” since the 1930s; outreach programs in conjunction with the Police Athletic League (from 1966), the New York City Parks Department, and the Board of Education (from 1999). Since 1992 the Society has donated more than 6,000 children’s books to shelters and charities citywide. Other memorable Society events include the filming of Loving in 1969, a movie starring George Segal, who portrayed a frustrated illustrator; the comprehensive exhibition “200 Years of American Illustration,” curated by the Society of Illustrators and held at the New-York Historical Society in 1976; and the publication of the book of that show, one of many volumes published by the Society over the years – books that have become collectors’ items in some cases. Under the stewardship of then president John Witt, the Museum of American Illustration was established in 1981. Today the Society’s Permanent Collection includes over 2,500 works by such legendary artists as Norman Rockwell, Howard Pyle, N.C. Wyeth, Rockwell Kent, Bob Peak, Bernie Fuchs and Brad Holland. 2001, the Society’s Centennial, was a year long celebration that began with a United States Postal issue: Great American Illustrators. Following the September attacks, the year ended with the “9/11 Memorial Exhibition: Prevailing Human Spirit.” The Society of Illustrators is an organization of many layers, one which provides illustrators a center to discuss, demonstrate and exhibit their work, contributes to future artists and to the community at large, honors its preeminent practitioners, takes a stand on legal and ethical issues affecting the profession – and has a great dining room to boot! As it faces the challenges of a swiftly changing future, the Society will continue to “promote generally the art of illustration,” as its founders dictated.


--- [Society of Illustrators explained] ---
| Society of Illustrators | | | Founder: | Henry S. Fleming, Otto Henry Bacher, Frank Vincent DuMond, Henry Hutt, Albert Wenzell, Albert Sterner, Benjamin West Clinedinst, F. C. Yohn, Louis Loeb, and Reginald Birch | | Leader Title: | Director | | Leader Name: | Anelle Miller (2007-present) | | Location: | 128 E. 63rd Street, New York, New York | | Fields: | Illustration | | Purpose: | Encourage high ideals through exhibitions, lectures, education, and by fostering a sense of community and open discussion. Its mission is to promote the art and appreciation of illustration, as well as its history. | | Subsidiaries: | Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art | The Society of Illustrators is a professional society based in New York City. It was founded in 1901 to promote the art of illustration and, since 1959, has held an annual exhibition. The Society of Illustrators was founded on February 1, 1901, by a group of nine artists and one advising businessman. The advising businessman was Henry S. Fleming, a coal dealer who offered his legal staff to the Society in an advisory role and also served as the Society of Illustrators Secretary and Treasurer for many years.[1] The nine artists who, with Fleming, founded the Society were Otto Henry Bacher, Frank Vincent DuMond, Henry Hutt, Albert Wenzell, Albert Sterner, Benjamin West Clinedinst, F. C. Yohn, Louis Loeb, and Reginald Birch.[2] The mission statement was "to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time".[3] Women first became part of the organization in 1903, when Elizabeth Shippen Green and Florence Scovel Shinn were named Associate Members; but women were prohibited from full membership until 1922.[4] During the World War I years, with Charles Dana Gibson as the acting president,[5] Society members worked through the Committee on Public Information's Division of Pictorial Publicity, creating many original poster designs, including James M. Flagg's US Army iconic recruiting poster of Uncle Sam, as well as advertising of the massive War Bond effort.[2] Photo journalism was impractical during these years[6] and eight Society members, commissioned Captains in the Engineers, were sent to France to sketch the war. After the war, the Society operated the School for Disabled Soldiers.[7] In 1920, the Society was incorporated, and in 1922 women were allowed to become full members.[8] The early history of the Society was documented in 1927 and 1939 by Norman Price. His hand written notes are held in the Society of Illustrators archives. During the 1920s and 1930s the Society presented the Illustrator's Shows, featuring artists and their models as actors, songwriters, set designers and painters. Professional talent such as the Cotton Club band and Jimmy Durante also performed. Through member and set designer Watson Barrett, the Illustrator's Show of 1925 was held at the Shubert Theatre, and the Shuberts purchased the rights to the skits for their Broadway productions of Artists and Models. In 1939, those funds allowed the Society to acquire its present headquarters, at 128 East 63rd Street. Norman Rockwell's Dover Coach became the backdrop for the bar on the fourth floor, donated by Rockwell in honor of the Society's new building. This painting currently hangs in the Members Dining Room.[9] During World War II the Society again contributed to the war effort with a massive campaign of posters. Society members visited veterans’ hospitals to sketch the wounded, and these art works were sent to the families to boost morale. The Illustrator's Jazz Band was formed to entertain the wounded,[10] and an ensemble by the same name plays at Society events up until the present.[11] In 1948, the Joint Ethics Committee, of which The Society is a member[12] developed the first Code of Fair Practice, which still serves today in addressing concerns of artists and art directors working in the graphic communications field where abuses and misunderstandings regarding usage rights and ownership of works of illustration and other works of art created for a wide range of public media.[13] In 1954, the U.S. Air Force began sending Society of Illustrators members around the world to document its activities. This program continues today. Thousands of paintings have been contributed over the years.[14] The year 1959 saw the Society hold its first Annual Exhibition, juried by Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson, Stevan Dohanos and others. It opened with 350 original works of art and led to the publication of the first Illustrators Annual.[15] 2001 was the Society's centennial year, a 12-month celebration begun with the U.S. Postal issue, Great American Illustrators.[16] That year was punctuated with the 9/11 Memorial Exhibition, Prevailing Human Spirit.[17] The Society of illustrators continues to maintain an annual of illustration, student scholarship competitions and various awards honoring excellence in the field of illustration. The Society maintains outreach programs with The New York City Parks Department (2001–present),[18] the New York City Board of Education (1999–present).[19] Anelle Miller has been the director of the Society since 2007.[20] , the president of the Society of Illustrators is Tim O'Brien.[21] Notable past presidents of the Society: The Museum of American Illustration was established at the Society in 1981, under the stewardship of then President John Witt. The Society’s permanent collection, featuring pieces on rotational display throughout the building, includes nearly 2500 works by such artists as Norman Rockwell, Howard Pyle, N.C. Wyeth, James Montgomery Flagg, Bob Peak and Bernie Fuchs.[22] The Museum hosts the Annual Illustration show and smaller topical exhibits related to illustration.[23] In recent years, the main galleries have played host to numerous acclaimed, contemporary, and popular exhibitions including: • R. Crumb: Lines Drawn on Paper (March 23- April 11, 2011), curated by Monte Beauchamp.[24] • Maurice Sendak: A Celebration of the Artist and his Work (June 11-August 17, 2013), curated by Justin Schiller and Dennis David.[25] [26] • The ZAP Show (March 2-May 17, 2016), curated by Monte Beauchamp and Eric Sack.[27] [28] • Will Eisner: The Centennial Celebration 1917–2017 (March 1-June 3, 2017).[29] [30] • The Art of MARCH: A Civil Rights Masterpiece (February 28-June 30, 2018), curated by John Lind and Charles Brownstein.[31] [32] • Illustrating Batman: Eighty Years of Comics and Pop Culture (June 12-October 12, 2019), curated by Rob Pistella, John Lind, and Chip Kidd.[33] [34] The Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art (MoCCA) transferred its assets in August 2012 to the Society, which has continued the MoCCA Fest. The Society also has a gallery on the second floor dedicated to MoCCA that frequently hosts smaller exhibits of comic book art. The Society of Illustrators inaugurated the Hall of Fame program in 1958, to recognize "distinguished achievement in the art of illustration".[35] The first recipient was Norman Rockwell. Like other recognized artists, he was elected by former Society presidents for his contributions to the field of illustration. Every year since 1958, one or more illustrators have been added to the Hall of Fame. In 2001, two additional forms of recognition were added: Dean Cornwell Recognition Award[36] and the Arthur William Brown Achievement Award, which may be awarded annually. In 1965, The Society established The Hamilton King Award, which is given annually to one society member, and is widely considered to be the most prestigious award in illustration.[37] In 1981, The Society established the Student Scholarship Competition, which has continued annually to the present.[38] The Highest Award presented to a student by the society is the Zankel Scholarship Award, established in 2006 in honor of Arthur Zankel, an advocate for higher education whose bequest made the scholarship possible.[39]


--- [Society of Illustrators - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Society of Illustrators - The Society of Illustrators is a professional society based in New York City. Founded in 1901, the mission of the Society is to promote the art and appreciation of illustration, as well as its history. The Society encourages high ideals through exhibitions, lectures, education, and by fostering a sense of community and open discussion. Contents Founding and history On February 1, 1901, a group of nine artists and one advising businessman founded the Society with this credo: "The object of the Society shall be to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time." Attendees to the first monthly dinners included Howard Pyle, Maxfield Parrish, N.C. Wyeth, Charles Dana Gibson, Frederic Remington, James Montgomery Flagg and Howard Chandler Christy. During the World War I years, Society members worked through the Division of Pictorial Publicity, creating many original poster designs, including James M. Flagg's US Army recruiting poster of Uncle Sam. Eight Society members, commissioned Captains in the Engineers, were sent to France to sketch the war. After the war, the Society operated the School for Disabled Soldiers. 1920s In 1920, the Society was incorporated, and women became full members. The 1920s and 1930s were the heyday of the Illustrator's Shows. These theatrical skits featured the artists and their models as actors, songwriters, set designers and painters. Professional talent such as the Cotton Club band and Jimmy Durante also performed. Through member Watson Barrett, the Illustrator's Show of 1925 was held at the Shubert Theatre, and the Shuberts purchased the rights to the skits for their Broadway productions of Artists and Models. In time, those funds allowed the Society to acquire its present headquarters, at 128 East 63rd Street. Norman Rockwell's Dover Coach became the backdrop for the bar on the fourth floor. This painting currently hangs in the Members Dining Room. During World War II, the Society again contributed to the effort with a massive campaign of posters, illustrations and visits to veterans’ hospitals to sketch the wounded. These pictures were sent to families to help boost morale. The Illustrator's Jazz Band was formed to entertain the wounded. In 1946, a Welfare Fund for indigent artists was established. In 1948, the Joint Ethics Committee developed the first Code of Fair Practice. Lectures and demonstrations filled the house during those years. In 1954, the U.S. Air Force began sending members around the world to document its activities. This program continues today. Thousands of paintings have been contributed over the years. The first Scholarship Fund was established in the early 50s and, in 1959, Norman Rockwell became the first member elected to the Society's hall of fame. Annual Exhibitions In 1959, the Society held its first Annual Exhibition, juried by Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson, Stevan Dohanos and others. It opened with 350 original works of art and led to the publication of the first Illustrators Annual. In 2008, the Society celebrated its 50th Annual Exhibition. Other notable events include the filming of Loving (1969) with George Segal portraying a frustrated illustrator; the Warwick (NY) Training School for Boys Saturday school (1961–65); The antiwar show "Genocide" (1972); the Bicentennial Show at the New-York Historical Society (1976–77); and the publication of 200 Years of American Illustration and The Illustrator in America; outreach programs to the Police Athletic League (1966–present); the New York City Parks Department (2001–present), and the New York City Board of Education (1999–present); the donation to shelters and charities of over 6,000 children's books (1992–present). The Museum of American Illustration was established in 1981. Today the permanent collection includes nearly 1800 works by such artists as Norman Rockwell, Howard Pyle, N.C. Wyeth, James Montgomery Flagg, Bob Peak and Bernie Fuchs. 2001 was the Society's centennial year, a 12-month celebration begun with the U.S. Postal issue, Great American Illustrators. That year was punctuated with the 9/11 Memorial Exhibition, Prevailing Human Spirit. External links Categories:- American illustrators - Art and design-related professional associations Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Society of Illustrators - Drawing Workshops and Events] ---
| New York Arts - Cultural Workshop Society of IllustratorsBack for Another Season ! Lecture Series Scroll Down to Get Details: . . . a rare and exciting opportunity to interact with some of the most successful and respected illustrators of our time. Society of Illustrators Call S.I. at: Email: si1901@aol.com | The Society of Illustrators | | Call for Current Schedules for Figure Drawing Sessions and Lecture Series . . . a rare and exciting opportunity to interact with some of the most successful and respected illustrators of our time. Figure Drawing Sessions Email the Society of Illustrators at info@societyillustrators.org or We also invite those of you who enjoy these sessions but who are not members of the Society to strongly consider being a part of this great community of graphic artists by becoming a member. | About the Society of Illustrators | | In 1954, the U.S. Air Force began sending members around the world to dcument its activites. The program continues today and thousands of paintings by Society members have been contributed to the collection over the years. A similar program is now in place for the U.S. Coast Guard with yearly exhibitions and dinners held at Society headquarters. The first scholarship fund was established in the early 50s and, in 1959, Norman Rockwell became the first member of the Hall of Fame. That same year, The First Annual Exhibition juried by Bob Peak, Bradbury Thompson and Stevan Dohanos, among others opened with 350 original works of art and the first Illustrator's Annual. Other notable events at the Society were the 1969 filming of "Loving" with George Segal portraying a frustrated illustrator (proceeds from this filming were used to renovate and modernize the Gallery); the "Anti-War Show in 1972; the 75th anniversary in 1976 - Homage of Howard Pyle, father of American Iillustration and the Bicentennial Show at The New York Historical Society with over 1,000 works. 1981 saw the establishment of the Museum of American Illustration. Today the museum possesses 1500 works of art by such legendary artists as Rockwell, Pyle, Wyeth, Kent, Peak, Fuchs, and Brad Holland. Our involvement in Illustration, contribution to community service and student scholarship, annual exhibition and recognition of the greats in the field of illustration, welfare fund and stand on legal issues, sketch classes, lecture series, and social gatherings prove our concern and commitmentto support the field of illustration - past, present and future. | Critical Dialogue in the Visual Arts Email: info@societyillustrators.org at the Society of Illustrators All artwork is copyright of the respective owner or artist. All other material � Copyright 2015 New York Art World ®. All Rights Reserved. Cultural Workshop - Society of Illustrators - Back To Top
