=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bader Award - Wikipedia]
The Bader Award is a prize for organic chemistry awarded annually by the Royal Society of Chemistry since 1989. The winner, who receives £2,000 and a medal, gives a lecture tour in the UK.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bader_Award

[Bader Prize for Organic Chemistry]
The Bader Prize recognises eminence in organic chemistry, which has not previously been rewarded by the Royal Society of Chemistry. Details. Status, Closed.
URL: https://www.rsc.org/standards-and-recognition/prizes/research-and-innovation-prizes/bader-prize

[Bader Award Explained]
The Bader Award is a prize for organic chemistry awarded annually by the Royal Society of Chemistry since 1989. The winner, who receives £2,000 and a medal, gives a lecture tour in the UK.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Bader_Award/

[Alfred Bader - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Since 1989, the Baders have funded the Bader Award from the Royal Society of Chemistry given "to recognise eminence in organic chemistry". Since 2013, the Alfred Bader Award has been given by the Canadian Society for Chemistry to a scientist working in Canada for "excellence in research in organic chemistry".
URL: https://alchetron.com/Alfred-Bader

[Bader Award - Wikiwand]
Sign in Top Qs
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Bader_Award


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bader Award - Wikipedia] ---
The Bader Award is a prize for organic chemistry awarded annually by the Royal Society of Chemistry since 1989. The winner, who receives £2,000 and a medal, gives a lecture tour in the UK.


--- [Bader Prize for Organic Chemistry] ---
Bader Prize for Organic Chemistry The Bader Prize recognises eminence in organic chemistry, which has not previously been rewarded by the Royal Society of Chemistry. Details | Status | Closed | |---|---| | Nominations opening date | 21 October 2025 12:00am | | Nominations closing date | 14 January 2026 12:00am | | Nominator eligibility | RSC members | | Nominee eligibility | Individuals | | Nominee location | UK and Ireland | | Career stage | All career stages | About this prize Nominations for this prize will close on Wednesday 14 January 2026 at 17:00 GMT. The Bader Prize recognises eminence in organic chemistry, which has not previously been rewarded by the Royal Society of Chemistry. - Run annually - The winner receives £3000, a medal and a certificate - The winner will complete a UK lecture tour - The winner will be chosen by the Organic Chemistry Prize Selection Panel Eligibility Individuals named in any of the following roles during the nomination and judging period are not eligible to nominate or be nominated: - Organic Chemistry Prize Selection Panel members - RSC Subject Community Presidents - RSC Prize Committee members - Trustees of the Royal Society of Chemistry - Royal Society of Chemistry staff Nominators: - Only RSC members can nominate for this prize. - Nominees may NOT nominate themselves. Nominees: - This prize is open to nominees based in the UK or Ireland only. - There are no career stage restrictions associated with this prize. - Nominees must not have previously received an individual RSC Prize. - Nominees can only be considered for one of our Research & Innovation Prizes in any given year. In a case where a nominee is nominated for more than one prize independently, RSC staff will ask the nominee which prize they would like to be considered for. - We will not consider nominations of deceased individuals. - We particularly encourage nominations of disabled people, those who work part-time, or whose career has spanned a break for any reason – for example, a period of parental or adoption leave, caring responsibilities, long-term illness, family commitments, or other circumstances. We understand that these can impact a nominee’s career in different ways, and encourage nominators to use the space provided on the nomination form to explain the nature and impact of the nominees’ individual circumstances (see 'Guidelines for Nominators' for further details). General information - When nominating previous RSC prize winners, please remember that a person cannot be awarded twice for substantially the same body of work. - Nominees should only be nominated once for this prize in any given prize cycle. In cases where we receive more than one nomination for the same nominee, only one nomination will go forward to judging. - All unsuccessful nominations from the previous cycle will be retained on our nomination system ahead of the next cycle. To be considered again, nominators must log in, update details, and resubmit the nomination for the following cycle. Please note that reconsideration is no longer automatic. - RSC staff will write to nominators and nominees to confirm when the nomination window has re-opened. Nominators will receive instructions on how to log in and update the nomination. To make a nomination, please use our online nominations system to submit the following information: - Your name, contact details, and membership number (please contact the RSC Membership team if you do not know your membership details). Your RSC membership must be confirmed at the point of nomination – it is not sufficient to have a membership application in process. The identity of nominators is not made known to our judging panels. The RSC reserves the right to amend nominations if necessary to ensure the anonymity of the nominator. - Your nominee's name and contact details. - An up to date CV for the nominee (no longer than one A4 side, 11pt text) which should include a summary of their education and career, and a maximum of 5 relevant publications or patents. - Any information related to career breaks taken by your nominee - for example, a period of parental or adoption leave, caring responsibilities, long-term illness, family commitments, as well as any other circumstances including long-term conditions or disabilities. We understand that these can impact a nominee's career in different ways, and encourage nominators to use the space provided on the nomination form to explain the nature and impact of the nominee's individual circumstances. This information will be shared with the selection panel, but before doing so RSC staff will always seek consent from the nominee in cases where special category data is mentioned. - A short citation describing what the nominee should be awarded for. This must be no longer than 250 characters (including spaces) and no longer than one sentence. - A supporting statement (up to 750 words) addressing the selection criteria. Our guidance for nominators page has more information on writing this supporting statement. - A statement (up to 100 words) describing how your nominee has contributed more broadly to the scientific community. A list of possible examples is outlined in the ‘selection criteria’ tab. - References are not required for this award and will not be accepted. The RSC reserves the right to rescind any prize if there are reasonable grounds to do so. All nominators will be asked to confirm that to the best of their knowledge there is no impediment, relating to professional conduct, to their nominee receiving this prize. All prize winners will be asked to sign the RSC’s Code of Conduct Declaration for Recognition. Our selection panels base their evaluations on the overall quality of relevant contributions and achievements by nominees, in relation to the selection criteria listed below. The scientific content of any supporting publications, as described in the supporting statement, is much more important than publication metrics or the identity of the journal in which it is published. The selection panel will consider the following aspects of nominations for this prize: - Originality of research - Impact of research - Quality of publications and/or patents and/or software - Innovation - Professional standing - Collaborations and teamwork - Other indicators of esteem indicated by the nominator In an instance where multiple nominees are judged equally meritorious in relation to the above criteria, judging panels have the flexibility to use information provided by the nominator on the nominee’s broader contribution to the chemistry community as an additional criterion. Examples of relevant contributions could include, but are not limited to: - Involvement with Royal Society of Chemistry member groups/networks - Teaching/demonstrating - Effective mentorship - Service on boards, committees or panels - Leadership in the scientific community - Peer-reviewer - Promotion of diversity and inclusion - Advocacy for chemistry - Public engagement and outreach A generous gift from Dr Alfred Bader resulted in the establishment of the Bader Prize in 1989. Dr Bader founded the Aldrich Chemical Company, in Wisconsin, with Jack Eisendrath in 1951. As Aldrich rapidly expanded internationally in the 1950s and '60s, Bader merged with Sigma International, to form Sigma-Aldrich in 1975. During his time as Chairman of the company, from its inception in 1951 until 1991, Bader amassed an impressive library of rare chemicals, and the Sigma catalogue became the standard reference text for many chemists looking for physical and structural data. Born into a Jewish family in Vienna in 1924, Bader was evacuated to Britain in the Kindertransport in 1938. Following this period he spent time at an internment camp in Canada before completing his education at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario. Later, Bader studied for his PhD under Louis Fieser at Harvard. Throughout his life, he harboured a great interest in art, and had a large collection of 'Old Master' paintings. After retiring from Sigma-Aldrich he devoted his life to philanthropy, as well as his art collection, and published his memoirs - "Adventures of a Chemist Collector" and "Chemistry and Art". He was awarded eleven honorary degrees for his service to chemical research and philanthropy. Bader died in 2018, aged 94. | Year | Name | Institution | Citation | | 2025 | Professor Anita Maguire | University College Cork | Awarded for the development of a diverse range of synthetic organic methodologies and protocols, and their applications to medicinal chemistry. | | 2024 | Professor Bruce Turnbull | University of Leeds | Awarded for the development and application of bioorthogonal approaches in engineering functional protein and carbohydrate based systems. | | 2023 | Professor Marc Vendrell | The University of Edinburgh | Awarded for the design and synthesis of activatable fluorophores, and their application in high-resolution biological imaging and translational medicine. | | 2022 | Professor Ross Denton | The University of Nottingham | Awarded for the development of novel synthesis methods and catalysts based on organophosphorus and organosilicon chemistry, and their application in the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and natural products. | | 2021 | Professor Alison Hulme | University of Edinburgh | Awarded for creative applications of alkyne chemistry in synthesis and label-free Raman imaging in cells. | | 2020 | Professor Edward Anderson | University of Oxford | Awarded for creative contributions to organic synthesis and synthetic methodology | | 2019 | Professor Jason Micklefield | The University of Manchester | Awarded for innovative contributions to the elucidation of natural product biosynthetic pathways and the development of enzymes for synthesis. | | 2018 | Professor Joseph Harrity | The University of Sheffield | Awarded for the development of innovative strategies for the synthesis of functionalised heterocyclic scaffolds. | | 2017 | Professor Michael Greaney | The University of Manchester | Awarded for creative contributions to C-H activation, dynamic covalent chemistry, and reactive intermediates in organic synthesis. | | 2016 | Professor Thomas Wirth | Cardiff University | Awarded for his break-through discoveries in hypervalent iodine chemistry and flow-based synthesis that have led the field and have opened up completely new areas of research. | | 2015 | Professor Stephen Clark | University of Glasgow | Awarded for the development of new reactions and strategies for the efficient synthesis of highly functionalised natural products. | | 2014 | Professor David Procter | University of Manchester | Awarded for significant contributions to synthetic methods development for the efficient construction of complex molecules of biological interest. | | 2013 | Professor Jonathan Goodman | University of Cambridge | Distinguished for his innovative applications of computational studies to understanding molecular properties and synthesis design in organic chemistry and reactivity in enzyme chemistry. | | 2012 | Professor John Murphy | University of Strathclyde | Awarded for his many highly creative and original contributions to reactivity in organic synthesis, including free radical chemistry, the concept of the radical-polar crossover reaction and electron transfer in the invention of organic super electron reducing agents. | | 2011 | Karl J Hale | Queen's University, Belfast | Awarded for outstanding contributions to organic chemistry, including elegant total syntheses and pioneering new synthetic methods of broad use to the community. | | His significant contributions to the synthesis and medicinal chemistry of bioactive natural products and their analogs. | ||| | 2010 | Kevin Booker-Milburn | University of Bristol | Awarded for his original and innovative contributions to photochemical reactions and techniques, and to transition metal-mediated procedures. | | 2009 | Douglas Philp | University of St Andrews | Awarded for his creative research into supramolecular chemistry and the design of molecular self-replication systems. | | 2008 | Veronique Gouverneur | University of Oxford | Awarded for her important contributions to synthetic organofluorine chemistry. | | 2007 | Dr J B Spencer | University of Cambridge | Distinguished for his breakthroughs in the biosynthesis of clinically important natural products. | | 2006 | Professor David M Hodgson | University of Oxford | Distinguished for his development of novel synthetic technology for use in total synthesis, including novel carbenoid, lithiation and epoxide chemistry. | | 2005 | This Award was not awarded for 2005 | || | 2004 | Dr Robert S Ward | University of Wales, Swansea | Distinguished for his contributions to natural product chemistry, particularly concerning the synthesis of lignans including podophyllotoxins. | | 2003 | Dr Hamish McNab | University of Edinburgh | | | 2002 | Dr Stuart G Warren | University of Cambridge | Distinguished for his contributions to organophosphorus and organosulfur chemistry, and for his outstanding achievements in chemical education at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. | | 2001 | Dr David R M Walton | University of Sussex | Distinguished for his fundamental interdisciplinary contributions to the synthesis of carbon-based materials and inorganic nanostructures, and for his elucidation of nanotube self-assembly mechanisms. | | 2000 | Dr Tom L Gilchrist | University of Liverpool | Distinguished for his contributions to heterocyclic chemistry and the development of novel heteroatom-containing dienes and dienophiles. | | 1999 | Dr R J Whitby | University of Southampton | Distinguished for his contributions to the application of early transition metals to organic synthesis. | | 1998 | Dr Don A Whiting | University of Nottingham | Distinguished for his contributions to the synthesis, biosynthesis and structure elucidation of natural products. | | 1997 | Dr D A Widdowson | Imperial College London | Distinguished for his major contributions over many years in natural products, bioorganic and organometallic chemistry. Special mention should be made of his work on the biosynthesis of alkaloids and steroids; on the mechanisms of NADH and coenzyme B12 dependent reactions; new methods for aromatic fluorination; and perhaps most importantly for his work with arenetricarbonylchromiun complexes. | | 1996 | I Paterson | || | 1995 | G W J Fleet | || | 1994 | A B Holmes | || | 1993 | R W Alder | || | 1992 | M R Bryce | || | 1991 | W B Motherwell | || | 1990 | D H Williams | || | 1989 | S G Davies | Contact our prizes team We're here to help. Please do not hesitate to contact our prizes team if you have any questions. Research & Innovation Prizes Our Research & Innovation Prizes recognise brilliant chemical scientists carrying out amazing work in academia and industry. They include prizes for those at different career stages in chemistry and for those working in specific fields, as well as interdisciplinary prizes and prizes for those in specific roles Selection panel Professor AnnMarie O'Donoghue Durham University, UK Professor Vijay Chudasama University College London, UK Dr Tom Corrie Syngenta, UK Professor Ai-Lan Lee University of Edinburgh, UK Professor Anita Maguire University College Cork, Ireland Professor Angela Russell University of Oxford, UK Professor Robert Stockman University of Nottingham, UK


--- [Bader Award Explained] ---
No content


--- [Alfred Bader - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Fields Chemistry Name Alfred Bader | || Known for Sigma-Aldrich, Aldrichimica Acta Books Adventures of a chemist collector, Chemistry & Art: Further Adventures of a Chemist Collector Education Queen's University, Harvard University | 2005 dr alfred bader Alfred Robert Bader CBE (born April 28, 1924, in Vienna, Austria) is a Canadian chemist, businessman, philanthropist, and collector of fine art. He was considered by the Chemical & Engineering News poll of 1998 to be one of the "Top 75 Distinguished Contributors to the Chemical Enterprise" during C&EN's 75-year history. Contents - 2005 dr alfred bader - Early years - Education - Business - Art collector - Philanthropist - Awards and honours - Honorary degrees - Memberships - Medals and Awards - Personal - References Early years Alfred Bader was born on April 28, 1924, in Vienna, Austria. His father, Alfred Bader, was of Czech Jewish descent. His grandfather, Moritz Ritter von Bader, had been a civil engineer, who worked on the Suez Canal and was knighted by Emperor Franz Josef for his service as Austrian consul at Ismaïlia. His mother, Elizabeth Countess Serényi, came from an aristocratic Catholic Hungarian family. In spite of adamant opposition from Serényi's family, the couple had married in London and settled in Vienna. Alfred was born only two weeks before his father's death. He was adopted by his father's sister, Gisela Reich, and raised as a Jew. His older sister, Marion, remained with Countess Serényi and was raised as a Catholic. In June 1938, Bader was forced out of school because Jews were forbidden to attend beyond the age 14. On December 10, 1938, he was sent from Austria to England as part of the Kindertransport to escape Nazi persecution. His adoptive mother remained in Austria, and died in 1942 in Theresienstadt. While in England, Bader attended the East Hove Senior School for Boys, and Brighton Technical College. In 1940 he was sent to a Canadian internment camp for European refugees (which Bader described as spartan but a good influence on his academic and social education). While in the camp, Bader passed his junior and senior matriculation, taking exams from McGill University. A Montreal sponsor, Martin Wolff, welcomed him into a Canadian Jewish family in late 1941 and encouraged him to study further. Education After being rejected by McGill, which had a Jewish "quota" and by the University of Toronto, where the chemistry department was doing sensitive war work, Bader was accepted by Queen's University, in Kingston, Ontario. He received his B.Sc. in Engineering Chemistry in 1945, followed by a B.A. in History in 1946. During the summers, he worked for the Murphy Paint Company in Montreal, formulating paints, lacquers and varnishes to order. He completed his M.S. in Chemistry in 1947, doing considerable work on the oxidation of linoleic acids and isomeric tetrahydroxystearic acids. His work with Arthur F. McKay, a "superb experimentalist" who supervised Bader's laboratory work in experimental chemistry, convinced Bader to focus on the field of synthetic organic chemistry. Bader went on to study at Harvard University, with the support of the Abbott fellowship. He received an M.A. in Chemistry in 1949 and a Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry in 1950. At Harvard, he studied with famed organic chemist Louis Fieser, working on the rearrangement of quinones and the development of intermediates in the Hooker oxidation process. Business While working for the Murphy Paint Company in Montreal, Bader was offered financial support to do graduate work, on the condition that he return to work at the company. By the time he finished his Ph.D. at Harvard, Murphy Paint had been acquired by Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. In January 1950, Bader began work as a research chemist at Pittsburgh Plate Glass. His appointment to the Milwaukee, Wisconsin research facilities broke an unwritten rule against the hiring of Jews and African Americans. While at PPG Bader did significant work in noncatalytic transesterification and in the development of monomers, including systematic studies of alkenylphenols, unsaturated phenols, and phenolic resins. This work led to a number of patents. The patent for Bader's method of creating diphenolic acid was later sold by PPG to Johnson Wax for $1M. Bader remained with PPG until 1954, when the company planned a move to Pittsburgh. During this time, Bader became increasingly aware of the need for a small reliable company dedicated to providing quality research chemicals. At that time Kodak was their only supplier, and the large company seemed to show insufficient consideration for small and independent researchers. Bader himself had experienced this as a graduate student, when he ordered one of the compounds he needed from the Kodak catalog. He eventually had to make it himself due to its infrequent availability. In 1951, while still working at PPG, Bader co-founded the Aldrich Chemical Company with Jack Eisendrath, a lawyer. Jack Eisendrath was the first company president. Although Bader held the title of Chief Chemist, most chemicals were not produced in-house. Bader bought interesting compounds from a variety of sources in the United States and Europe and listed them in his catalog. The company initially operated out of a garage where the chemicals were stored and packaged for mailing. The first product sent out by Aldrich was Methylnitronitrosoguanidine, which Bader had learned to produce at Queen's. By 1954 Bader and his first wife, Helen "Danny" Daniels, bought Eisendrath out of Aldrich, becoming "sole and equal owners of the company." Alfred Bader became the company president, leaving PPG. Reliable chemicals were essential for research chemists of all kinds. They saved time and work in preparation, and the availability of standardized key reagents and starting materials contributed to the reproducibility of experimental results. The Aldrich Chemical Company catalog eventually grew to contain nearly 50,000 substances, described by the Chemical Heritage Foundation as "a huge library of rare chemicals" in addition to thousands of those most commonly used. The company's "Big Red" annual catalog was often used as a reference work because of the extensive physical data and structural information that it contained. As the catalog grew, so did the company. In 1962 in a 50:50 venture between Aldrich Chemicals and Metal Hydrides Inc., Alfred Bader founded Alfa Inorganics, intending to complement Aldrich's organic chemicals with inorganic research chemicals. This joint venture was terminated in 1967. Other joint ventures have been formed as well. A separate corporation, the Alfred Bader Chemical Corp., was sold to Aldrich on December 20, 1965. A British subsidiary, originally known as Ralph N. Emanuel, Ltd., was co-owned by the Emanuel and Bader families from 1959 to 1969, was gradually taken over by Aldrich, and officially renamed Aldrich Chemical Co. Ltd. in 1973. Aldrich also obtained a controlling interest in Heidenheimer Chemisches Laboratorium (HCL) in Heidenheim, Germany by 1971. In 1975 the Aldrich Chemical Company merged with Sigma Chemical Corporation to become the Sigma-Aldrich Corporation. Aldrich was a leading supplier of organic research chemicals; Sigma a leading supplier of research biochemicals. Together they became the 80th largest chemical company in the United States. As of 1987, 35% of the chemicals sold by Aldrich were produced in-house. Bader served as president of the combined company from 1975 to 1980 and from 1980 to 1991 as chairman. In 1991 he retired as chairman, and was named chairman emeritus. In an unexpected corporation upheaval Bader was voted off the board of the company in 1992, losing the title of chairman emeritus, but remaining one of the largest holders of the company's stock. Bader has since said that while it was a staggering blow at the time, the change has given him more time to deal in art works and continue his philanthropy, making him happier. The company later reinstated Bader in the role of chemist collector, in which he provides the company journal Aldrichimica Acta with paintings for its covers. Art collector Bader stated, "I am an inveterate collector. It may be a sickness, and it began with stamps at eight, drawings at 10, paintings at 20, and rare chemicals at 30." He collected stamps as a youth when his finances permitted. He purchased his first oil painting in the Canadian internment camp: his portrait, painted by a fellow inmate, for a fee of one Canadian dollar. A lifelong collector, Bader has devoted himself to the study of art history and collection of many fine paintings. In 1961, he and Marvin Klitsner established Alfred Bader Fine Arts gallery in Milwaukee. Beginning with its first issue in 1968, Bader contributed numerous articles on art subjects to the Aldrich Chemical Company's journal, Aldrichimica Acta. In addition, full-color copies of Dutch masters from Bader's collection were used for the covers of many of the journal's issues. Artworks from his collection were also featured on the Aldrich Handbook, beginning with the Quill Cutter by Paulus de Lesire in the 1967–68 edition of the catalog. In 1995 Bader published his autobiography, Adventures of a Chemist Collector, which details his experiences from Nazi-era refugee, to chemist magnate, to fine arts connoisseur. In 2008 he published his second autobiography, Chemistry & Art - Further Adventures of a Chemist Collector. Philanthropist Bader has given various charitable donations to Queen's University, Canada, both financial and in-kind. He purchased the 15th century Herstmonceux Castle in East Sussex, England, and donated it to Queen's University, which opened the Bader International Study Centre there in 1994. The residence at the International Study Centre at Herstmonceux Castle is named "Bader Hall" in recognition. The Baders have also established a number of fellowships, including the Alfred Bader Graduate Fellowship, the Alfred Bader Graduate Fellowship in Art, The Alfred Bader Graduate Fellowship in the Humanities, and the Alfred and Isabel Bader Postdoctoral Fellowship in Jewish History. Queen's also hosts three Bader Chairs: in Organic Chemistry, in Southern Baroque Art, and in Northern Baroque Art. In honour of his numerous contributions, in 2004 Queen's renamed a campus road from "Queen's Crescent" to "Bader Lane". The Baders are long-time supporters of the Agnes Etherington Art Centre at Queen's in Kingston, Ontario. Upon the invitation of curator Frances Smith in 1967, Bader first donated a painting to Queen's, a Salvator Mundi. In 2014, Bader and his second wife, Isabel, donated 68 paintings from their personal collection of Dutch and Flemish Baroque art to the Agnes Etherington Art Centre, bringing the number of paintings they have donated to the centre to over 200. Highlights of the collection include three paintings by Rembrandt van Rijn, Head of an Old Man in a Cap, Head of a Man in a Turban, and Portrait of a Man with Arms Akimbo; and paintings by Willem Drost, Jan Lievens, Aert de Gelder, and Jacobus Leveck. The collection has been the basis of a number of exhibitions and publications. The Baders also contributed a "transformational gift" towards the creation of the Isabel Bader Centre for the Performing Arts, which opened in 2014. The centre contains a music performance hall, a studio theatre, a small cinema, an art and media lab, a large rehearsal hall and many classrooms, and brings together the Department of Film and Media, the School of Music, the Department of Drama, and the Bachelor of Fine Art Program at Queen's. It provides a performance venue for both the university and the surrounding city. At Victoria University, Toronto, alma mater of Isabel Bader, the Baders funded construction of a performing arts theatre, the Isabel Bader Theatre. The Baders have also supported Project SEED, an American Chemical Society initiative that gives scholarships to economically disadvantaged high school students and enables them to conduct hands-on research. Since 1986, the Baders have funded the giving of the Alfred Bader Award in Bioinorganic or Bioorganic Chemistry by the American Chemical Society, "to recognize outstanding contributions to bioorganic or bioinorganic chemistry". Since 1989, the Baders have funded the Bader Award from the Royal Society of Chemistry given "to recognise eminence in organic chemistry". Since 2013, the Alfred Bader Award has been given by the Canadian Society for Chemistry to a scientist working in Canada for "excellence in research in organic chemistry". As of 2011, the Baders donated $1.6 million towards the construction of the proposed Kenwood Interdisciplinary Research Complex (KIRC) at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee (UWM). Awards and honours Awards and honours received by Alfred Bader include but are not limited to the following: Honorary degrees Memberships Medals and Awards Personal Bader's marriages are described in his autobiographical books. His romance in England with Isabel Overton (b. 1926), the daughter of a deeply religious Protestant family in Northern Ontario and a graduate of Victoria University in Toronto, began with a shipboard meeting in 1949 and continued in a rapid courtship and some 400 love letters. Isabel broke off the relationship because of religious concerns and settled in Bexhill-on-Sea in Sussex, England but did not become romantically involved with anyone else. Her love letters to Alfred Bader have been published as A Canadian in love, 2000. Alfred went on to meet and marry his first wife Helen Ann Daniels "Danny", in the United States. Similar in many ways to Isabel, including a Protestant religious upbringing, Danny converted to Judaism before Bader proposed to her. Married in July 1952, they had two sons, David (born 1958) and Daniel (born 1961). Danny worked at Aldrich Chemicals, and owned shares in the company. Nearly three decades later Alfred re-connected with Isabel, which led to the breakdown of his marriage with Danny; Danny requested a divorce in 1981 and died six years later. Alfred subsequently married Isabel and the two remain happily married. Alfred and Danny's two sons, David and Daniel, now serve as half-owners of Alfred Bader Fine Arts. (Descendants of Bader's onetime partner in that gallery, Marvin Klitsner, now own the other half.) They also serve as president and vice-president of Bader Philanthropies, a foundation originally formed in 1992, now honouring Helen Daniels Bader and Isabel and Alfred Bader.


--- [Bader Award - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
