=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service - Wikipedia]
ThePennyCraneAwardforDistinguishedServiceis anawardissued by the Association for Computing Machinery 's Special Interest Group on University and College ComputingServices. Itwasestablishedin2000 to recognise individuals who have made significant contributions to the Special Interest Group, and to computing in higher education. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Penny_Crane_Award_for_Distinguished_Service

[SIGUCCS Announces 2014 Award Recipients - ACM SIGUCCS]
Since then, thePennyCraneAwardforDistinguishedServicewasestablishedto recognize other individuals who have made significant contributions to SIGUCCS and computing in higher education.
URL: https://siguccs.org/wp/siguccs-announces-2014-award-recipients/

[Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service - Semantic Scholar]
ThePennyCraneAwardforDistinguishedServiceis anawardissued by the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on University and College ComputingServices. Itwasestablishedin2000 to recognise individuals who have made significant contributions to the Special Interest Group, and to computing in higher education.
URL: https://www.semanticscholar.org/topic/Penny-Crane-Award-for-Distinguished-Service/4971112

[Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service - Alchetron]
ThePennyCraneAwardforDistinguishedServiceis anawardissued by the Association for Computing Machinery 's Special Interest Group on University and College ComputingServices. Itwasestablishedin2000 to recognise individuals who have made significant contributions to the Special Interest Group, and to computing in higher education.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Penny-Crane-Award-for-Distinguished-Service

[Penny Crane Award]
Since then, thePennyCraneAwardforDistinguishedServicewasestablishedto recognize other individuals who have made significant contributions to SIGUCCS and computing in higher education.
URL: https://siguccs.hosting.acm.org/wp/?page_id=414


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service - Wikipedia] ---
The Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service is an award issued by the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on University and College Computing Services. It was established in 2000 to recognise individuals who have made significant contributions to the Special Interest Group, and to computing in higher education.




--- [SIGUCCS Announces 2014 Award Recipients - ACM SIGUCCS] ---
The deserving recipients will be formally acknowledged at SIGUCCS 2014 in Salt Lake City, see you there! http://www.siguccs.org/Conference/2014/registration.shtml Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service: Cynthia Dooling http://www.siguccs.org/cindy-dooling.shtml The Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service was established by the SIGUCCS board in 2000 to honor the memory of Penny Crane, an active SIGUCCS member from the mid-70’s until her untimely death in 1999. A special award was presented posthumously to Penny Crane at the 1999 SIGUCCS Fall Conference to honor her long-time service and contributions to SIGUCCS and ACM. Since then, the Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service was established to recognize other individuals who have made significant contributions to SIGUCCS and computing in higher education. SIGUCCS Hall of Fame 2014 Inductees: Bob Haring-Smith, Karen McRitchie, Parrish Nnambi, and Elizabeth Wagnon The ACM SIGUCCS Hall of Fame was established to recognize individuals whose specific contributions have had a positive impact on the organization and therefore on the professional careers of the members and their institutions. The “Hall of Fame” is a web site that contains the names and short biographies of those who are honored for specific contributions. Recipients also receive a physical token of the award. Communication Award Winners Each year ACM SIGUCCS sponsors a competition to honor the best publications, websites and promotional material produced by university and college centers. The competition recognizes excellence in developing useful and attractive publications in a variety of media categories and provides SIGUCCS conference participants with an opportunity to review publications that may help them develop or enhance their own work. The winning entries are displayed during the conference for perusal by the conference participants.


--- [Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service - Semantic Scholar] ---
Skip to search form Skip to main content Skip to account menu Semantic Scholar Semantic Scholar's Logo Search 233,113,891 papers from all fields of science Search Sign In Create Free Account Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service Known as: ACM SIGUCCS Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service The Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service is an award issued by the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on University… Expand Wikipedia (opens in a new tab) Create Alert Alert Papers overview Semantic Scholar uses AI to extract papers important to this topic. 2017 2017 Energy consumption and overloads of crane hoisting mechanism with system of reducing operational loads A. Kosucki , P. Malenta , Łukasz Stawiński , S. Halusiak 2017 Corpus ID: 53508354 The energy consumption of production processes is more often considered in the context of possible energy savings. The important… Expand Review 2016 Review 2016 Additions to the Ethiopian bird atlas: 126 new records from 14 atlas squares Ole Tobias Rannestad 2016 Corpus ID: 215991506 The bird atlas for Ethiopia provides an unsurpassed overview of the country’s avian diversity and species distribution. However… Expand 2013 2013 Shock Response Properties of Crane Slewing Bearing Under the Condition of Revolve Braking Yuan Jian-ming 2013 Corpus ID: 112176025 In order to figure out the origin of the gear failure of crane slewing bearing,taking the outer race gear as research object,an… Expand 2009 2009 The Economic Impact of the Rowe Sanctuary and Sandhill Crane Migrationon the Central Nebraska Region Richard W. Edwards , Eric Thompson 2009 Corpus ID: 127630967 1997 1997 Influence de la prédéformation et des traitements thermiques sur la microstructure et les propriétés mécaniques des alliages Al-Zn-Mg-Cu A. Deschamps 1997 Corpus ID: 92171831 Nous avons etudie l'influence du traitement thermomecanique des alliages Al-Zn-Mg-Cu sur leur microstructure et leurs proprietes… Expand 1992 1992 Las transiciones a la democracia en España, América Latina y Europa Oriental: elementos de aproximación a un estudio comparativo M. Sáez 1992 Corpus ID: 162463522 «A pesar de las enormes diferencias entre los sistemas políticos de hoy, muchos parecen compartir el ferviente deseo de barrer la… Expand Review 1990 Review 1990 Sandhill Crane Roost Site Characteristics in the North Platte River Valley Martin J. Folk , T. C. Tacha 1990 Corpus ID: 87686493 We documented sandhill crane (Grus canadensis) roost site characteristics in the North Platte River Valley (NPRV) of Nebraska in… Expand 1968 1968 The Crane Maiden M. Matsutani 1968 Corpus ID: 195054184 1940 1940 Highlights of crane girder investigation, 1940 I. E. Madsen 1940 Corpus ID: 106492371 1932 1932 Clarence Crane Briton, The Jacobins. An essay in the new history Paul Leuilliot 1932 Corpus ID: 163612689 By clicking accept or continuing to use the site, you agree to the terms outlined in our Privacy Policy (opens in a new tab) , Terms of Service (opens in a new tab) , and Dataset License (opens in a new tab) ACCEPT & CONTINUE


--- [Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service - Alchetron] ---
The Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service is an award issued by the Association for Computing Machinery's Special Interest Group on University and College Computing Services. It was established in 2000 to recognise individuals who have made significant contributions to the Special Interest Group, and to computing in higher education. Recipients References Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service Wikipedia(Text) CC BY-SA


--- [Penny Crane Award] ---
Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service About Penny Crane Penny Crane served in many capacities for both ACM and SIGUCCS including SIGUCCS board chair from 1986 to 1990. For many of our members, Penny comes to mind when service to SIGUCCS is mentioned. Her death left a huge void in the ranks of our volunteers. This award was established by the SIGUCCS board to honor her memory. “A woman unafraid to be warm, laid back, friendly, and always ready for fun. She understood the importance of this for her life and as the heart of user services and SIGUCCS. I would describe her as the perfect matriarch of SIGUCCS.” – Diane Jung, Indiana University About the Award Each year, SIGUCCS members are invited to nominate their colleagues, along with five corresponding endorsements by SIGUCCS current or past members, for the Penny Crane Award. The deadline for nominations is November 1 of each year. See the Qualifications & Nominations information below for complete details and to nominate a colleague. The selection committee reviews nominations and endorsements as received to determine if an award will be made at that year’s annual conference. The award itself consists of an honorarium of $1,000, a lifetime membership in SIGUCCS, and a physical form of recognition, such as a plaque or paperweight. Travel costs and conference registration for the recipient to attend the ceremony are also covered. Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service Recipients A special award was presented posthumously to Penny Crane at the 1999 SIGUCCS Fall Conference to honor her long-time service and contributions to SIGUCCS and ACM. Since then, the Penny Crane Award for Distinguished Service was established to recognize other individuals who have made significant contributions to SIGUCCS and computing in higher education. - 2025 Recipients – Lisa Brown & Laurie Fox - 2024 Recipient – Parrish Nnambi - 2023 Recipient – Beth Rugg - 2022 Recipient – Melissa Bauer - 2019 Recipient – Kelly Wainwright - 2018 Recipient – Nancy Bauer - 2017 Recipient – Tim Foley - 2016 Recipient – Phil Isensee - 2015 Recipient – Bob Haring-Smith - 2014 Recipient – Cindy Dooling - 2013 Recipient – Terris Wolff - 2011 Recipient – Leila Lyons - 2010 Recipient – Lida Larsen - 2009 Recipient – Robert Paterson - 2008 Recipient – Jerry Smith - 2007 Recipient – Dennis Mar - 2006 Recipient – Jennifer Fajman - 2005 Recipient – J. Michael Yohe - 2004 Recipient – Linda J. Hutchison - 2003 Recipient – Russell S. Vaught - 2002 Recipient – John Bucher - 2001 Recipient – Jack Esbin - 2000 Recipient – Jane Caviness Individual’s Qualifications - Been a member of SIGUCCS over a relatively long term (but would not necessarily have to be a current member). - Been nominated via a 500-word statement from a current member of SIGUCCS (no self-nominations). - A record of long-term service to higher education and the computing profession, as indicated by a statement covering that service (normally a complete resume). - A record of extensive service to SIGUCCS, over a significant period of time (normally ten or more years), which could be checked against the records of SIGUCCS and ACM. - Received additional endorsements from at least five current or former members of SIGUCCS who are familiar with the contributions of the candidate. - Services which might qualify an individual include: SIGUCCS officer or board member, Conference or Program Chair, Conference Presenter, Chairing a SIGUCCS Committee, Serving in the Peer Review process, conducting workshops, representing SIGUCCS on an ACM Committee, representing SIGUCCS/ACM to another information technology organization Nominations To nominate a colleague, complete the Penny Crane Nomination form along with a minimum of five Endorsements. Nominations, including all endorsements, for the Penny Crane award are required to be made to the selection committee by a deadline of November 1 of each year. This will allow sufficient review and selection in time for presenting the award at the next annual SIGUCCS conference. Penny Crane Award Nomination form Financial Support for the Award The award is supported by a special endowment fund. Anyone wishing to contribute to the fund should send checks made out to “ACM SIGUCCS Penny Crane Fund” to the attention of: Director, Office of Financial Services ACM 2 Penn Plaza, Suite 701 New York, NY 10121-0701 If a written acknowledgement of the gift is needed, be sure to include the complete name and address of the donor.
