=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bayern 0-4 Real Madrid (Apr 29, 2014) Final Score - ESPN]
Game summary of the Bayern Munich vs. Real Madrid Uefa Champions League game, final score 0-4, from April 29, 2014 on ESPN.
URL: https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/391814/real-madrid-bayern-munich

[Bayern München 0-4 Real Madrid | UEFA Champions League 2013/14]
Apr 29, 2014 · Bayern München vs Real Madrid 2013/14. All UEFA Champions League match information including stats, goals, results, history, and more.
URL: https://www.uefa.com/uefachampionsleague/match/2011881--bayern-munchen-vs-real-madrid/

[Bayern Munich v Real Madrid: Champions League semi-final]
Apr 29, 2014 · Full-time: Bayern Munich 0-4 Real madrid (Agg: 0-5) An emphatic victory for MAdrid, who proceed to the final to pursue their quest for a 10th European title but will have to overcome their city ...
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/apr/29/bayern-munich-v-real-madrid-champions-league-semi-final-live-mbm

[2013–14 UEFA Champions League - Wikipedia]
The 2013–14 UEFA Champions League was the 59th season of Europe's premier club football tournament organised by UEFA, and the 22nd season since it was renamed from the European Champion Clubs' Cup to the UEFA Champions League. The final was played between Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid at the Estádio da Luz in Lisbon, Portugal, [1] marking it the fifth final to feature two teams from the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2013%E2%80%9314_UEFA_Champions_League

[Bayern München vs. Real Madrid 2013-2014 | Footballia]
Watch the 2013-2014 Bayern München vs. Real Madrid Champions League Semi-final, 2nd leg full match held at Allianz Arena (München) on Footballia
URL: https://footballia.net/matches/bayern-munchen-real-madrid-champions-league-2013-2014


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bayern 0-4 Real Madrid (Apr 29, 2014) Final Score - ESPN] ---
Bayern v Real Madrid 2013-14 UEFA Champions League, Semifinals Sergio Ramos - 16', 20' Cristiano Ronaldo - 34', 89' 2nd Leg - Real Madrid win 5-0 on aggregate Match Formations Game Information Allianz Arena 2:45 PM, April 29, 2014 München, Germany Attendance: 68,000 Match Timeline Match Commentary 90'+3' Second Half ends, FC Bayern München 0, Real Madrid 4. | 90'+2' Attempt saved. David Alaba (FC Bayern München) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom right corner. | 90'+2' Javi Martínez (FC Bayern München) wins a free kick in the attacking half. |


--- [Bayern München 0-4 Real Madrid | UEFA Champions League 2013/14] ---
Champions League Official Live football scores & Fantasy Get UEFA.com works better on other browsers For the best possible experience, we recommend using Chrome , Firefox or Microsoft Edge . Skip to main content UEFA Champions League Bayern München vs Real Madrid Overview Line-ups Squad lists Match info Want goal alerts and line-up announcements? Get the app now! Get the app Not now Live Masterful Madrid end Bayern reign Match facts Match stats Performance Attacking Defending Disciplinary Related articles Live 30/04/2014 Ramos' Real Madrid final dream comes true Live 30/04/2014 Bayern philosophical after Madrid drubbing Live 29/04/2014 Ancelotti delighted to end Madrid wait Live 29/04/2014 Masterful Madrid end Bayern reign Live 28/04/2014 Bale eager to blunt Bayern on Madrid comeback Live 28/04/2014 Bayern desperate to turn around Madrid tie Live 28/04/2014 Robben, Alaba banking on Bayern's Munich factor Live 24/04/2014 History on Bayern's side for Madrid turnaround Top


--- [Bayern Munich v Real Madrid: Champions League semi-final] ---
Full-time: Bayern Munich 0-4 Real madrid (Agg: 0-5) An emphatic victory for MAdrid, who proceed to the final to pursue their quest for a 10th European title but will have to overcome their city neighbours Atletico or their former manager's Chelsea. It should be a belter. As for tonight, Madrid executed their plan perfectly, Bayern helped shoot themselves in the foot. Pep Guardiola needs a couple of new players, and some new touches to his plan. 90 min: Alaba wafts a weak freekick into the arms of Casillas. "Surely Ozil wouldn't have had a place in this Real Madrid," propounds Johannes Stark. "Modric, better at defending and keeping the ball, is just so much better suited for this compact Real Madrid team" From 22 yards Ronaldo swipes a low freekick under the Bayern wall and into the net past the nonplussed Neuer. That was quite deliberate from the Portuguese and crowns a momentous night for Madrid. 88 min: Here comes another Real freekick. "The solution is simple," announces Matt Phillips. "Sin bin. Works in rugby. Why not a similar thing in football? Yellow card = 10 minutes off the pitch. Two yellows in one game and get sent off for the rest of the match. Yellow cards get collected over games. 3 yellow cards over 5 games then get a one game ban. Every game without a card reduce your total by one." 86 min: Schweinsteiger catches Modric with a late tackle, not unlike the one on Schweinsteiger for which Alonso was booked. The ref doesn't bother cautioning the German. "Will Sergio Ramos say something to the Bayern goalkeeper who mocked him two years ago following his famous missed penalty?" wonders Halcombe. Surely words are not necessary. A smug, sustained grin right in Neuer's face would do the trick. 84 min: Real change: Casemiro on, Di Maria off. "Yellow and red cards should be followed by 15-minute and rest-of-game suspensions, respectively," storms Henning Walczak. "That way the punishment would be immediate and, importantly, also give an advantage to the deserving opponent." 82 min: The excellent Modric rolls a corner short to Di Maria, who centres. Bale rises and should head into the net for yet another routine goal from a cross ... but he mis-times his header. 80 min: "Tiago's absence is massive for Bayern in the Champions League and this has largely gone unnoticed by the pundits!" squawks Mussa Awaleh. "He is the Xavi for this team, without him the system will malfunction. As it has done tonight and against Man Utd. On Pep, watch the Pep-Tito version of Barca. They were one of the great European club teams." 78 min: Bayern are playing without belief, which is understandable. Real are on easy street. "As hope ebbs away for Bayern I asked myself 'what could be more irritating than watching Pepe & Co cruise in the Allianz Arena on the back of a Ramos brace?' when I noticed in the margins of the Guardian page the headline of this Life & Style article: 'I inhaled a pin into my lung'," warbles Pet Oh. "I may need to go there after you finish, to gain some perspective on things" 74 min: At some point during that ramble, Carlo Ancelotti rudely interrupted by making a substitution. All this talk of suspensions made him remember that Ramos was at risk: so he's replaced him with Varane. 72 min: Now, here's the thing: the biggest problem with suspensions, as I see it, is that they encourages big teams to keep massive squads. They buy very good players who would be regulars at smaller clubs, just to have them on a standby. So the real travesty is not that a few big players sometimes miss a big match, it's that lots of very good players miss lots of matches because they're sitting on the sidelines. So the solution is this: instead of imposing suspensions, impose penalties: if a team receives, say, two yellow cards in the semi-final, their opponents in the final get a penalty before kick-off and if they score, they start with a one-goal advantage. The more cards, whether yellow or red, the more penalties before the match. 70 min: "I can't think of a great solution but what if suspensions for a final only applied to the first half of the final?" tries David Morton. No, that won't do. I'll tell you the solution in minute. 68 min: Di Maria glides down the left and then crosses for Ronaldo, who leaps with trademark athleticism but fails to guide his header on target. "I wasn't aware Pep had a reputation as being 'cool as a cucumber' (49th minute)," quibbles PJ Connolly. "I thought he had a reputation as a deeply intense perfectionist? Not the usual traits you'd associate with an easy going chap. The footage of the Bayern training session doing the rounds earlier this season seemed like an interesting portrait of the man. He might have a bit more dignity than some (can't imagine when he gets into his 50s Pep'll start wearing a puffa jacket waistcoat and beating his chest in public), doesn't mean he's cool. Ancelotti though... the man doesn't even acknowledge the existence of the ruffle." 65 min: Real still keeping Bayern at bay with ease. "Your point about Bayern as a basketball team (52 mins) makes me wish Fifa had introduced a shot clock about 5 years ago," sobs Brad McMillan. "That way, I could have avoided having to sit through the Barca-style boredom years. Mind you, it's almost been worth the wait to see it so well beaten on nights like tonight. Maybe we'll get more of the same this summer?" 60 min: "It this the end of the tyranny of tiki-taka?" wonders Alan Watt. "Feels like more than just a football result." Not necessarily. I think this suggests that Bayern do not have all the players they need to apply tiki-takka Barça style. But tiki-takka definitely needs tweaking, as Bayern themselves suggested last year. So what Guardiola may now devote himself to developing, assuming he is not sacked, is tikka-takk 2.0. 58 min: Ribery musters some incisions, feinting past a defender and firing a low shot at goal from 16 yards. An easy save for Casillas but improvement nonetheless from the hosts. 55 min: After lots more Bayern passing in front of Real, Robben tries to curl one into the corner from 25 yards. It's a fine effort, but drops just wide. In other news, lots of you have sent in emails complaining about Alonso's booking: everyone agrees he deserved it, but very few of you seem to think he should miss the final. None of you, however, have provided an alternative disciplinary system beyond saying "suspensions shouldn't apply in the final", which risks turning the semi-final (one that was closer than this) into a free-for-all. 53 min: A glimpse of goal at last for Bayern, as Alaba collects the ball in the Real box and then sidesteps one defender. But Ramos hurls himself in front of the shot to deflect it over. 52 min: Bayern are like a basketball team throwing the ball around the key as as they try to find an opening the Real defence. Nothing doing so far. "I don’t feel you gave Bale enough credit for that third goal," snorts Nigel Gomm. "It was he who, back in his own penalty area, regained possession for Real before charging up field to receive the pass from Benzema." Fair point, well made. 48 min: Bayern have done nothing so far in the second half. "I still can't figure out why Pep has this 'cool as a cucumber' reputation," natters Matt Loten. "He never had to worry about the stress of actually having to compete for titles until Mourinho rocked up at Madrid, and as much as Jose is a master of turning mind games into results, I've never seen a man fall for them as hook, line and sinker as Guardiola. I mean, he had to abscond to New York for a year just to recover!" Bayern change: They need five goals to go through so what do they do? Take of their striker, of course! Martinez has come on for Mandzukic. Let's see what this means then ... "The man who will pay the most for this result is Jurgen Klopp," reckons Krishnan patel. "Expect Bayern to shamelessly bully Dortmund and take away Subotic and/or Hummels." Personally,I think Hummels is over-rated. "It seems to me that Bayern's form since winning the league is the most precipitous drop-off since...well, nothing comes to mind," stammers Simon McGrother, who's obviously not a Newcastle fan. Nicholas Matatu sums up why many people think Pep Guardiola is a busted flush. "Set pieces, a bit of physicality and turbo-charged counter attacks. Isn't that the very same strategy Bayern used last year to tear apart the Catalan masters of tiki-taka?" notes Nicholas Matatu. "All is not lost for Bayern!" trumpets Devesh Rai Jalim. "Pep needs to do the following changes at half time: Gerrard, Smicer and Alonso in. As Ancelotti knows, it worked in the past, though I fear I'm missing something ." It has been a perfect performance by Real and a remarkably impotent one by Bayern. Carlos Ancelotti has neutralised Guardiola's side as effectively as Jose Mourinho neutralised Liverpool on Sunday, and they have established an insurmountable lead with two elementary goals from set-pieces and a wonderful striker on the counter-attack. 45 min: It's all getting catty. Di Maria is the victim of a slightly mis-timed but not hurtful tackle, and then lots of players gather to push, shove and whinge. This is (one of the situations) where Uefa and Fifa are guilty of bringing football into disrepute: allowing this sort of nonsense to carry on is a dereliction of duty. 44 min: Ramos heads clear after a dangerous cross by Robben. Pepe, you will be relieved to hear, is now back on the pitch after treatment, the trooper. 42 min: Typically contemptible behaviour from one of the most obnoxious clowns in world football: Pepe blocks a cross with his head and then rolls around the ground like a three-year-old who's been denied an ice cream. 40 min: After lots of possession, Bayern launched two crosses into the box, both of which Real clear. Alaba then decides to try a more direct route and has bang from 20 yards. Pep deflects it wide for a corner. "I want an all Madrid final," pleads Sam Hagedorn. "Real getting the double pulled on it by their little brother across town would be the best way to stick it to the man" 38 min: Alonso is not as lucky as Ramos: he gets a deserved yellow for a wild tackle on Schweinsteiger. Not as senseless as Louis Saha ruling himself out of the 2006 final by getting booked after coming on in stoppage time in the semi-final, but certainly not smart. 37 min: Ronaldo nearly inflicts further damage after another mistake by Neuer. Like Bale earlier, he sent the ball flying back over the keeper's head after a shoddy clearance but it bounced over the bar! 35 min: Ramos, who will miss the final if he gets a booking, launches himself into a tackle on Lahm. He wins the ball but surely was not in control of his body and was lucky not to get the suspension. That would have been the most ludicrous reason for missing a final since Claudio Cannigia missed the 1990 World Cup final for an entirely pointless handball in the semi. That's a magnificent counter-attack, exactly what Bayern dreaded. Di Maria, fed Benzema, who played in the rampaging Bale, who flipped over to Ronaldo, who slammed it under Neuer from the edge of the area. That's his 15th goal in the Champions League this season, a new record. It's becoming a humiliation for Bayern. 30 min: Bayern are besieging the Real box but not finding any penetration, while leaving themselves vulnerable to Real's rapid counter-attack. Meanwhile, my inbox is creaking under the weight of Manchester United fans calling for Bayern to sack Guardiola ... 26 min: This is what Bayern face now: after one of their attacks break down, Real lash the ball forward to Ronaldo, who has Bale and just two defenders for company. The Portuguese scampers towards the box and then lets fly from 20 yards, dragging his shot just wide. 24 min: Lahm forages down the right and then nicks a nice ball through to Ribery, who spins before firing a low shot wide from a difficult angle. "Bayern double marked Ronaldo for the first goal and left Ramos free," Prateek Chadha. "He scored. And they proceeded yo do exactly the same on the very next set piece to identical results. Pep will have to to answer for that because Bayern clearly haven't thought through how they will defend dead balls"Maybe.Or maybe they did have a a very canny plan but the players neglected to apply it. 22 min: Bayern blurt their first coherent response, as a snappy move down the left concludes with Robben chipping in a dangerous cross. Casillas intervenes, however. 19 min: Guardiola is seriously going to cop it for this. His high-minded ideas don't look so clever when his team are undone by basic ineptitude at set-pieces. Di maria's delivery from the freekick was nice, but pep was allows to meet it to easily and Ramos was similarly unguarded when he followed up his team-mate's flick and nodded into the net. It's going to take something unprecedented for Bayern to recover from this. 19 min: Bayern are losing their heads a little here. They're quibbling with every call by the ref, who has just awarded Bale a freekick for being shoved to the ground about 30 yards out, wide on the right. "Recycled jokes, dearie me," tut-tuts Justin Kavangh with regard t o kevin Thomson's knavery. "Less than 10 minutes in and the MBM humour factor hits a new Löw." 16 min: It seems that all the Bayern defenders were concentrating on Ronaldo, who did jump to try to meet Modric's corner but it sailed over his head, leaving Ramos to leap and nut a powerful header into the net! Bayern now need three goals to win and they haven't looked like getting one yet. 14 min: Dante hits a long ball to Mandzukic, who takes it down and feeds Robben. Real eventually break up the move but it was interesting to see the sensible us of the long pass by Dante: Bayern didn't do that in the first leg. 12 min: Nervous whistling from the home crowd is the soundtrack to every Real attack. They're at it again now as Ronaldo skitters down the left and looks up to see Benzema and Bale surging into the box in anticipation of a cross. But the move peters out. 10 min: Carvajol shunts into Ribéry in a rather over-vigorous attempt to shield the ball. The Frenchman is justifiably riled but the Portuguese referee, after separating the bickering pair, decides there was no foul. 8 min: Neuer charges out of his box to intercept a long diagonal ball towards Benzema. The keeper fails to make firm contact and directs the ball towards Bale, who attempts to slash the ball back over the keeper's head and into the net from 40 yards ... but he fails to find the target. Meanwhile, in a scandalous development, I have been informed via a minor twitter storm instigated by Brian Sharon that Kevin Thomson's gag below has been used before. Regurgitating the same old jokes, Kevin? What sort of website do you take this for, eh? Oh right. 6 min: Muller charges down the right and sends in a low cross that Pepe struggles to deal with. Mandzukic momentarily senses a chance but the defender recovers to clear. "Surely I'm not the first to wonder why Pep is dressed like the milk tray man?" muses Keith Tucker. "I guess it's that old saying when in Germany dress like Joachim Löw." 5 min: Lahm is playing at right-back tonight so his duel with Ronaldo will be intriguing, as will Bales' with Alaba. Neither winger has got a chance to run at their opponents yet. 2 min: Ribéry, eager to make up for his inconsequential performance last week, hurtles 40 yards forward down the left and the flips it into the middle. Real win it and rip forward themselves, Coentrao getting way forward before hammering a low cross in the direction of Di Maria. Neuer intervenes but it's an encouragingly enterprising start by both sides. The teams are in the tunnel, bathed, for some reason, in red light. That's either a Bayern thing or a stealthy accusation that modern footballers are just glorified prostitutes. The atmosphere at the Munich stadium is such that ITV pundit Roy Keane feels the need to shout his answers to Adrian Chiles' questions. Come to think of it, maybe it's just Adrian Chiles' questions that makes him feel like roaring. "Apparently American actor Timothy Hutton, star of films like Ordinary People and The Ghost Writer, was at the Bernabéu last Wednesday for the first leg of the Real Madrid v Bayern Munich match," claims Kevin Thomson. " After the game, he went down to the Bayern Munich dressing room to have a quick chat with the players. As he left, Hutton picked up the wrong jacket. He was walking around for a good 10 minutes wearing the jacket of one of the Bayern Munich players before he realised his mistake. This was a case of Hutton dressed as Lahm." Evening all! Sorry there's no lengthy preamble tonight but, owing to the Tube strike in London, I had to travel 10 miles to work by space hopper. Took longer than I expected. Anyway, a gander at the line-ups suggests that Carlo Ancelotti is going to attack tonight, apparently in the belief that if Real score once, that'll see them through to the final, what with Bayern then needing three goals.


--- [2013–14 UEFA Champions League - Wikipedia] ---
The 2013–14 UEFA Champions League was the 59th season of Europe's premier club football tournament organised by UEFA, and the 22nd season since it was renamed from the European Champion Clubs' Cup to the UEFA Champions League.
The final was played between Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid at the Estádio da Luz in Lisbon, Portugal, marking it the fifth final to feature two teams from the same association (after the finals of 2000, 2003, 2008, and 2013) and the first time in tournament history that both finalists were from the same city. Real Madrid, who eliminated the title holders, Bayern Munich, in the semi-finals, won in extra time, giving them a record-extending 10th title in the competition. Real equalized late in the second half through Sergio Ramos and then pulled away during extra time to win 4–1.
For the first time, the clubs who qualified for the group stage also qualified for the newly formed 2013–14 UEFA Youth League, a competition available to players aged 19 or under.




--- [Bayern München vs. Real Madrid 2013-2014 | Footballia] ---
Thank you! First of all, we’d like to tell you how grateful we are to all of you who stuck by us during our offline period. Thank you so much! Keep Footballia alive! But the threat is not gone. As you know, in recent months, Footballia has been in danger of disappearing. We’ve improved our protection so you can keep enjoying football history, but as a consequence, our expenses have increased. How can you help? Many of you have asked how you can help the project. The best way is to subscribe to Footballia Master. Not only will you make the project stronger, but you’ll get a bunch of cool features in return!
