=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun]
The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun is the earliest known work by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Produced sometime between 1609 and 1615, [1][2][3] the sculpture is now in the Borghese Collection at the Galleria Borghese in Rome.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Goat_Amalthea_with_the_Infant_Jupiter_and_a_Faun

[Bernini Flashcards - Quizlet]
Study with Quizlet and memorize flashcards containing terms like Gian Lorenzo Bernini, Influences, Cardinal Scipione Borghese Sculptures and more.
URL: https://quizlet.com/161753887/bernini-flash-cards/

[Gian Lorenzo Bernini - Wikipedia]
Gian Lorenzo (or Gianlorenzo) Bernini (UK: / bɛərˈniːni /, US: / bərˈ -/; Italian: [ˈdʒan loˈrɛntso berˈniːni]; Italian Giovanni Lorenzo; 7 December 1598 – 28 November 1680) was an Italian sculptor, architect, painter and city planner. Bernini's creative abilities and mastery in a range of artistic arenas define him as a uomo universale or Renaissance man. While a major figure in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gian_Lorenzo_Bernini

[Gian Lorenzo Bernini (1598–1680)]
by S Agnes — One of these works, the Apollo and Daphne (1622–24; Galleria Borghese, Rome), illustrates the typically Baroque theme of metamorphosis. Subtle ...
URL: https://www.metmuseum.org/essays/gian-lorenzo-bernini-1598-1680

[14 Famous Bernini Sculptures - Art Facts]
This is a list of the most famous Gian Lorenzo Bernini sculptures, the epitome of Baroque sculptures that were created in the 17th century.
URL: https://art-facts.com/bernini-sculptures/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun] ---
The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun is the earliest known work by the Italian artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. Produced sometime between 1609 and 1615, the sculpture is now in the Borghese Collection at the Galleria Borghese in Rome.


--- [Bernini Flashcards - Quizlet] ---
No content


--- [Gian Lorenzo Bernini - Wikipedia] ---
Gian Lorenzo (or Gianlorenzo) Bernini (UK: , US: ; Italian: [ˈdʒan loˈrɛntso berˈniːni]; Italian Giovanni Lorenzo; 7 December 1598 – 28 November 1680) was an Italian sculptor, architect, painter and city planner. Bernini's creative abilities and mastery in a range of artistic arenas define him as a uomo universale or Renaissance man. While a major figure in the world of architecture, he was more prominently the leading sculptor of his age, credited with creating the Baroque style of sculpture.
As one scholar has commented, "What Shakespeare is to drama, Bernini may be to sculpture: the first pan-European sculptor whose name is instantaneously identifiable with a particular manner and vision, and whose influence was inordinately powerful ..." In addition, he was a painter (mostly small canvases in oil) and a man of the theatre: he wrote, directed and acted in plays (mostly Carnival satires), for which he designed stage sets and theatrical machinery. He produced designs as well for a wide variety of decorative art objects including lamps, tables, mirrors, and even coaches.
As an architect and city planner, he designed secular buildings, churches, chapels, and public squares, as well as massive works combining both architecture and sculpture, especially elaborate public fountains and funerary monuments and a whole series of temporary structures (in stucco and wood) for funerals and festivals. His broad technical versatility, boundless compositional inventiveness and sheer skill in manipulating marble ensured that he would be considered a worthy successor of Michelangelo, far outshining other sculptors of his generation. His talent extended beyond the confines of sculpture to a consideration of the setting in which it would be situated; his ability to synthesize sculpture, painting, and architecture into a coherent conceptual and visual whole has been termed by the late art historian Irving Lavin the "unity of the visual arts".




--- [Gian Lorenzo Bernini (1598–1680)] ---
Gian Lorenzo Bernini dominated the Roman art world of the seventeenth century, flourishing under the patronage of its cardinals and popes while also challenging contemporary artistic traditions. His sculptural and architectural projects reveal an innovative interpretation of subjects, use of forms, and combination of media. Forging a path for future artists, he played an instrumental role in establishing the dramatic and eloquent vocabulary of the Baroque style. Sculptures Gian Lorenzo first trained in the Roman workshop of his father Pietro, assisting with such sculptures as a pair of terms representing Spring and Fall in the guise of Flora and Priapus ; . The classically inspired Bacchanal: A Faun Teased by Children , one of his first independent works, takes as its point of departure the Mannerist motif of interwoven figures. A series of over-lifesize marble statues commissioned by Cardinal Scipione Borghese for his villa in Rome announced Bernini’s novel style and established his role as the foremost sculptor in Italy. One of these works, the Apollo and Daphne (1622–24; Galleria Borghese, Rome), illustrates the typically Baroque theme of metamorphosis. Subtle variations in the texture of the marble create the illusion of soft human flesh transforming into the leaves and bark of a tree. The statue of David (1623; Galleria Borghese) captures the biblical hero in the climax of his action. Expanding upon Michelangelo’s fascination with the human body, Bernini added torsion to create a dynamic figure that extends into the viewer’s space. One of his masterpieces, The Ecstasy of Saint Teresa (1647–52; Cornaro Chapel, Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome), presents a mystical figure who is physically overwhelmed by a miraculous vision. Functioning as a sort of tableau vivant with busts of members of the Cornaro family seeming to serve as witnesses, the composition reflects Bernini’s experience as a stage designer. The fusion of architecture, painting, and sculpture is further intensified by the combination of colored marbles. Called to France by King Louis XIV to work on the Palace of the Louvre, Bernini left Rome for a brief period in 1665. Although his architectural plans were rejected, he completed a portrait bust of Louis XIV (Château, Versailles), a majestic representation of the monarch in a dramatically billowing costume. Saint Peter’s Under Pope Urban VIII, Bernini received the first of several commissions for Saint Peter’s—the enormous marble, bronze, and gilt baldacchino (1623–24) to stand over the papal altar. Soon after, he began a monument to Urban VIII (1627–47), a work that defined the iconography of future papal funerary monuments. In the later work of the Cathedra Petri (1657–66), placed in the apse to encase the ancient throne believed to be that of Saint Peter, natural light is intensified by scattered gilt rays to create a divine setting. Framed visually by the columns of the earlier baldacchino, the sacred work immediately captures the attention of the viewer. Bernini’s last work for Saint Peter’s, begun under Pope Alexander VII, was the design for the giant piazza leading to the church (1656–67). He himself likened the oval space defined by two freestanding colonnades as the mother church extending her arms to embrace the faithful. Other Architectural Projects and Fountains Bernini further demonstrated his ability as an architect in the Church of Sant’Andrea al Quirinale (begun 1661, Rome), where the interplay of concave and convex surfaces in the interior guide the viewer’s eye around the centralized plan. In 1642–43, Bernini worked on a fountain design for the Piazza Barberini. The resulting Triton Fountain, with its organic and natural motifs, honored the nearby Barberini Palace and exemplified Rome’s advance use of aqueducts. A sketch for the fountain shows the sea deity seated above four intertwined dolphins, raising a conch shell to his lips, creating a cascade of water. The later Fountain of the Four Rivers (1648–51, Piazza Navona, Rome) demonstrates Bernini’s knowledge of engineering principles. In this complex concetto (poetic invention), personifications of the Four Rivers lie around a basin of water. A naturalistic rock formation supports a monumental obelisk, creating the illusion of a magically suspended tower. Working Method and Character A bronze Saint Agnes cast after a model by Bernini shows the impulsive quality of his terracotta bozzetti. The figure’s sideward stance is typical of the figures crowning the colonnades of Saint Peter’s Square. As a highly sought after sculptor, Bernini relied increasingly on his assistants to complete sculptures based on his designs. Also a painter, he created several self-portraits in the 1620s–30s that recall Velázquez’s tenebrous style. In contrast to his competitor Francesco Borromini, Bernini’s affable character allowed him to maintain good relations with his patrons. A man of great faith, he attended mass daily and practiced contemporary religious exercises. His abbreviated caricatures of prominent figures, including Pope Innocent X, expose a lighter side of his personality and a witty sense of humor.


--- [14 Famous Bernini Sculptures - Art Facts] ---
Gian Lorenzo Bernini (1598-1680) can easily be described as the founding father of Baroque sculpture. He left a permanent mark on the city of Rome as both a Baroque sculptor and architect and is, therefore, one of the most renowned Baroque artists in history. He was equally talented as both a sculptor and architect and designed multiple famous buildings in Rome, including but not limited to the interior design of St. Peter’s Basilica and St. Peter’s Square. Apart from the square in front of the biggest church in the world, most of his architectural achievements involved redesigning existing structures. Because of that, we have compiled a list of the most famous sculptures created by Gian Lorenzo Bernini, the epitome of Baroque sculptures that were created in the 17th century. 1. The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun - Date created: 1609–1615 - Dimensions: 44 centimeters (17 inches) - Location: Galleria Borghese, Rome, Italy The Goat Amalthea with the Infant Jupiter and a Faun is considered to be the earliest known work by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. It’s unsure when exactly he completed it, but it’s certain that he was still in his early teens when it was finished. Some sources state that it was completed in 1609 when he was just 11 years old, even though it’s pretty certain he created sculptures before this one as well. 2. Neptune and Triton - Date created: 1622-1623 - Dimensions: 182 centimeters (72 inches) - Location: Victoria and Albert Museum, London, United Kingdom Neptune and Triton is another early work by Bernini that he completed in the early 1620s. It was commissioned by Cardinal Alessandro Damascenti-Peretti Montalto and originally served as a fountain that decorated the Cardinal’s Villa Peretti Montalto on the Viminal Hill in Rome. It was purchased by an Englishman in the 18th century and eventually ended up in the Museum in London after switching hands a couple more times. 3. The Rape of Proserpina - Date created: 1621-1622 - Dimensions: 225 centimeters (89 inches) - Location: Galleria Borghese, Rome, Italy The Rape of Proserpina is another sculpture that was completed in the early 1620s. It depicts the scene when Ancient Roman goddess Proserpina is abducted and taken to the underworld by the god Pluto. It’s also another sculpture that was commissioned by Cardinal Scipione Borghese and only moved to its current location in the early 20th century. 4. Apollo and Daphne - Date created: 1622-1625 - Dimensions: 243 centimeters (96 inches) - Location: Galleria Borghese, Rome, Italy Apollo and Daphne is a sculpture that was completed halfway through the 1620s and was the final of the series of sculptures by the Cardinal Borghese. It was moved to his Villa as well and was one of the few statues that continued to be kept in high regard after Bernini’s death. This remained during a period that saw the decline of Baroque art in favor of the more sober Neoclassical style. 5. David - Date created: 1623-1624 - Dimensions: 170 centimeters (67 inches) - Location: Galleria Borghese, Rome, Italy David by Gian Lorenzo Bernini is one of the countless depictions of the Biblical hero David as he is about to fight Goliath. You will find some of the most famous examples in our list of sculptures by Donatello and sculptures by Michelangelo. Bernini’s version depicts David as he is about to throw the stone which eventually kills Goliath. This statue was revolutionary at the time because of its sense of movement. 6. St. Peter’s Baldachin - Date created: 1623-1634 - Dimensions: 28.74 meters (94.3 feet) - Location: St. Peter’s Basilica, Vatican City St. Peter’s Baldachin is one of the most iconic works of art created by Bernini. It’s a huge sculpted bronze canopy located over the high altar of St. Peter’s Basilica in Vatican City. It’s situated directly underneath the dome of the Basilica at the crossing and is one of the most fascinating works of art in the church. With a height of nearly 30 meters, it’s a visual compensation for the immense scale of the interior of the largest church in the world. 7. Corpus - Date created: 1655 - Dimensions: Life-sized - Location: Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto, Canada Corpus is a sculpture depicting the crucified Jesus Christ and Bernini completed it in the 1650s. What’s remarkable about this work of art is that Bernini kept onto it for about 25 years, meaning it’s a work he created for his own personal collection. It has been valued at $50 million in 2007 and was donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto, a pretty amazing gift! It’s considered to be a long-lost masterpiece of the artist because it was only in 2004 that it was revealed he created it and not an unknown French artist. 8. Ecstasy of Saint Teresa - Date created: 1647-1652 - Dimensions: Life-sized - Location: Santa Maria della Vittoria, Rome, Italy The Ecstasy of Saint Theresa depicts the 16th-century Spanish Saint Theresa, a noblewoman who became a Carmelite nun. It’s located in the Cornaro Chapel of Santa Maria della Vittoria in Rome, a building of which most of the interior was also designed by Gian Lorenzo Bernini. This sculpture is considered to be one of the absolute masterpieces of Roman Baroque art. It’s illuminated by natural light which enters the dome of the building. 9. Chair of Saint Peter - Date created: 1657–1666 - Dimensions: 15 meters (49 feet) - Location: St. Peter’s Basilica, Vatican City The Chair of Saint Peter is another monumental work of art by Gian Lorenzo Bernini which is located in Saint Peter’s Basilica in Vatican City. The decorations added by Bernini were created around the relic, which is a wooden chair believed to have been used by Saint Peter, one of the 12 Apostles of Jesus Christ and leader of the early Christians, as well as the first Bishop of Rome. Multiple studies have concluded, however, that this chair dates back to the 6th century. 10. Elephant and Obelisk - Date created: 1666-1667 - Dimensions: 12.69 meters (41 feet) - Location: Piazza della Minerva, Rome, Italy Elephant and Obelisk is a statue located on the Piazza della Minerva, a square situated near the Pantheon, one of the most magnificent temples built in Ancient Rome. It depicts an elephant carrying an obelisk, a monument that was discovered in 1655 when excavations took place to build the nearby church. With a height of just over 5 meters, it’s the smallest of the 13 ancient obelisks present in Rome today. 11. Blessed Ludovica Albertoni - Date created: 1671–1674 - Dimensions: Just over life-sized - Location: Church of San Francesco a Ripa, Rome, Italy Blessed Ludovica Albertoni is a funerary monument dedicated to Ludovica Albertoni, a Roman noblewoman who entered the Third Order of St. Francis after her husband died and she sacrificed her life to support the poor. The monument is located in a specially designed chapel in one of Rome’s many churches called the San Francesco a Ripa. 12. Bust of Louis XIV - Date created: 1665 - Dimensions: 80 centimeters (31 inches) - Location: Palace of Versailles, Versailles, France The Bust of Louis XIV depicts a way less humble man, French King Louis XIV, famously known for building the epitome of palaces at Versailles. It was commissioned by the King of France during one of Bernini’s visits to the country, emphasizing the fact that his reputation had spread across the borders of Italy. By this time, he was one of the most renowned artists in Europe which effectively makes him one of the most famous Baroque artists in history! 13. Bust of Pope Gregory XV - Date created: 1621 - Dimensions: 83.2 × 62.3 × 32.4 centimeters (32.75 × 24.5 × 12.75 inches) - Location: Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto, Canada The Bust of Pope Gregory XV was commissioned by the newly-elected pope in February of the year 1621 and Bernini completed it in September of that year. It depicts the aging man with an alert gaze in the typically naturalistic style of Bernini’s early years. The sculpture was loved by the Pope who awarded the young artist with a knighthood referred to as the “Supreme Order of Christ.” This was a great recognition for the aspiring artist who was only at the start of his long career when he carved this magnificent work of art. 14. Truth Unveiled by Time - Date created: 1645-1652 - Dimensions: 277 centimeters (109 inches) - Location: Galleria Borghese, Rome, Italy Truth Unveiled by Time is the title of one of the few Bernini sculptures that weren’t commissioned by a patron. The artist’s career suffered a major blow when his major patron, Pope Urban VIII, died, and he was blamed for the cracks in the bell towers that he designed for St. Peter’s Basilica. He started working on this sculpture to make a statement as it depicts an allegory of truth that is being unveiled by time. Unfortunately, he never managed to add the allegory of time and left the sculpture unfinished in 1652. So how did this story end? He was eventually exonerated for that fiasco at the end of his life.
