=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Philip Bliss - Wikipedia]
Bliss was a recognized friend of D. L. Moody, the famous Chicago preacher. Bliss died in the Ashtabula River Railroad Disaster on his way to one of Moody's meetings. An outspoken Abolitionist, he served as a Lieutenant during the American Civil War. Bliss's house in Rome, Pennsylvania, is now operated as the Philip P. Bliss Gospel Songwriters ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philip_Bliss

[Phillip Paul Bliss Sr. (1838-1876) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree]
Biography Phillip Paul "P. P." Bliss was born 9 Jul 1838, in Hollywood, Clearfield County, Pennsylvania*. His parents were Isaac Bliss and Lydia Doolittle. Moved with family to Kinsman, Ohio in 1844, but returned to Pennsylvania in 1847. 1856: schoolmaster in Hartsville, NY. In 1858, he took up an appointment in Rome Academy, Pennsylvania when and where he met Lucy J. Young, whom he married on ...
URL: https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Bliss-469

[Philip P. Bliss - zianet.com]
In the year 1858, at only twenty years of age, Philip Bliss was appointed a school teacher at the Rome Academy in his own hometown. While teaching at this institution, he boarded with the family of O. F. Young, which would turn out to be one of the most fortunate moves of his life.
URL: https://www.zianet.com/maxey/reflx283.htm

[Philip Bliss List of compositions - en.instr.scorser.com]
Philip Bliss Sheet music, scores In 1857, Bliss met J. G. Towner, who taught singing. Towner recognized Bliss's talent and gave him his first formal voice training. He also met William B. Bradbury, who persuaded him to become a music teacher. His first musical composition was sold for a flute. In 1858, he took up an appointment in Rome Academy, Pennsylvania.
URL: http://en.instr.scorser.com/C/All/Philip+Bliss/Song/Alphabeticly.html

[The Life and Ministry of Philip Bliss - Christian Hall of Fame series]
In 1858 he was appointed a teacher in the Rome, Pennsylvania, Academy. Here he met a fine young lady named Lucy Young, who was to become his bride. She was ...
URL: https://www.wholesomewords.org/biography/biobliss.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Philip Bliss - Wikipedia] ---
Philip Paul Bliss (9 July 1838 – 29 December 1876) was an American composer, conductor, writer of hymns and a bass-baritone Gospel singer. He wrote many well-known hymns, including "Hold the Fort" (1870), "Almost Persuaded" (1871); "Hallelujah, What a Saviour!" (1875); "Let the Lower Lights Be Burning"; "Wonderful Words of Life" (1875); and the tune for Horatio Spafford's "It Is Well with My Soul" (1876).
Bliss was a recognized friend of D. L. Moody, the famous Chicago preacher. Bliss died in the Ashtabula River Railroad Disaster on his way to one of Moody's meetings. An outspoken Abolitionist, he served as a Lieutenant during the American Civil War.
Bliss's house in Rome, Pennsylvania, is now operated as the Philip P. Bliss Gospel Songwriters Museum.


--- [Phillip Paul Bliss Sr. (1838-1876) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree] ---
Phillip Paul "P. P." Bliss was born 9 Jul 1838, in Hollywood, Clearfield County, Pennsylvania*. His parents were Isaac Bliss and Lydia Doolittle. Moved with family to Kinsman, Ohio in 1844, but returned to Pennsylvania in 1847. 1856: schoolmaster in Hartsville, NY. In 1858, he took up an appointment in Rome Academy, Pennsylvania when and where he met Lucy J. Young, whom he married on June 1, 1859. She came from a musical family and encouraged the development of his talent. She was a Presbyterian, and Bliss joined her Church. He married Lucy Jane Young 1 Jun 1859, in Wysocks, Bradford County, Pennsylvania. In 1864, the Blisses moved to Chicago. P. P. On 29 December 1876, the Pacific Express train on which Bliss and his wife were traveling approached Ashtabula, Ohio. When the train was nearly across the railroad trestle (bridge) it collapsed and the carriages fell into the ravine below. Bliss escaped the wreckage with his life but returned to the burning car to rescue his wife. He died attempting to rescue his wife in the Ashtabula River Railroad Disaster. No trace of either Mr. Bliss or his wife, Lucy, was discovered. [1] Note: Some Sources mistakenly attribute his birth in Penfield, but that is four miles from the smaller Hollywood. Where he was born in a Log Cabin. Philip Paul Bliss, in the Biographies of Notable Americans, 1904, Volume I "BLISS, Philip Paul, musician, was born in Clearfield county, Pa., July 9, 1838. In 1856 he taught school at Hartsville, N.Y. Being possessed of remarkable vocal powers, he decided to pursue a musical career. In 1860 he attended a musical academy in Genesee, N.Y., and composed songs which acquired a local popularity. He became popular as a music teacher in the west, and prominent in the musical conventions conducted by Bradbury, Root and others, afterwards becoming a successful conductor of such gatherings. He devoted his time to that branch of labor, until he made the acquaintance of Mr. Moody, and became engaged in evangelistic work. Meantime he bad become widely known as a writer of hymns and melodies, some of which attained remarkable popularity, notably, "I am so glad that Jesus loves me," "Almost Persuaded," and "Hold the Fort." He was killed in a railway accident at Ashtabula, Ohio, Dec. 29, 1876."[23][24] Philip Paul Bliss, in the Encyclopedia of American Biography, page 122 "BLISS, PHILIP PAUL, singing evangelist, was born July 9, 1838, in Clearfield county, Pa. He was associated with Moody in his noted evangelical tours, was composer and singer of many of the sweet inspirational hymns which vivified their meetings. He was killed Dec. 30, 1876, in a railroad disaster in Ashtabula, Ohio."[25][26] Memoir; PP Bliss Studying Music Pages 23 & 24 In July of 1860, the Normal Academy of Music was held in Geneseo, New York was being held for the music community. Musicians of renown were administrating the six-week event. Bliss was so excited about it, but when he realized that he could in no way afford the expense of the school, he was heartbroken. He knew it would be a great experience for him, but he had no money! When Grandma Allen noticed his sad demeanor she was full of sympathy. She asked him what it costs, he replied that it would "cost as much as thirty dollars". After telling him that thirty dollars "was a good deal of money", she told him of her old stocking that she has be "dropping pieces of silver for a good many years". She had Bliss count the amount of money in the stocking, they realized it had more than the amount needed. "And Bliss spent six weeks of the heartiest study of his life at the Normal".[27][28][29][30][31] It Is Well With My Soul One of the best known hymns by Bliss was a collaboration with Horatio Spafford, who wrote the poem lyrics, and Bliss composed the melody and music.[32] Spafford wrote it because of great tragedies in his life, and his faith in God, that saw him through. The story of "It Is Well With My Soul" can be found here: [33] Draft manuscript copy of hymn "It is Well With My Soul" by Horatio Gates Spafford can be found here: [34] ↑ "Lives and labors of eminent divines": Charles H. Parkhurst, Dwight Lyman Moody, Ira David Sankey, Philip P. Bliss and Eben Tourjée ; accounts of their labors of reform and evangelization and sketches of their lives; Page 263 Thru 289 ↑ Herringshaw, Thomas William. Herringshaw's Encyclopedia of American Biography of the Nineteenth Century. Chicago, IL, USA: American Publishers Association, 1902. Is Phillip your ancestor? Please don't go away! Login to collaborate or comment, or contact the profile manager, or ask our community of genealogists a question. Sponsored Search by Ancestry.com DNA Connections It may be possible to confirm family relationships with Phillip by comparing test results with other carriers of his Y-chromosome or his mother's mitochondrial DNA. Y-chromosome DNA test-takers in his direct paternal line on WikiTree:


--- [Philip P. Bliss - zianet.com] ---
Issue #283 ------- January 11, 2007 ************************** The music in my heart I bore, Long after it was heard no more. William Wordsworth {1770-1850} He has been characterized by some as the "second most famous Christian song writer in history," taking a backseat only to Fanny J. Crosby [see my tribute to her in Reflections #188]. M. Laird Simons, in the year 1877, stated this great man made up "the trio of the chief evangelists who were used of the Lord in promoting the Great Awakening of this generation." Simons called him "the Charles Wesley of the 19th century." Edward S. Ninde, in 1921, said that the hymn Almost Persuaded, which was written by this man, "is said to have brought far more souls to Jesus Christ than any other song he ever composed" [The Story of the American Hymn]. The man of whom I speak, of course, is none other than Philip P. Bliss, who was, without a doubt, one of the greatest hymn writers of all time. He was born in the little village of Rome, Pennsylvania on July 9, 1838. His family was very poor, living in a small log cabin and working by the sweat of their brows to make ends meet. His parents were quite religious, however, being members of the Methodist Church, and each day witnessed times of family devotionals, prayers, and the singing of songs of praise unto the Lord. These were some of Philip's earliest memories, and they had a lasting impression upon him. He would sit and listen joyfully and attentively to the sound of his parents singing, and soon developed a love of music. Although he received no formal secular education during his early years at home, he was nevertheless tutored by his mother, with the Bible being the primary text for the fundamentals of his early education, such as reading and writing. Thus, God's holy, inspired Word early on had a powerful influence upon his life. His parents were fond of saying of Philip, "He loved music like a bird." He took to it naturally, and as an adult, according to one biographer, "his voice developed into a bass of great range and beauty." Another biographer observed, "He had a deep bass voice of wonderful compass and pathos, yet with all his strength he possessed the delicate feeling and tenderness of a woman." Bliss was unable to afford musical instruments as a child, so "the only things he could play melodies on were reeds plucked from the marshes." He was ten years old when he saw and heard a piano for the first time. To help the family financially, young Philip would often go into town and sell vegetables from their garden door to door. One day, while thusly employed, he heard the sound of a piano being played from inside one of the houses. He was so overcome by the music that he wandered right into the house and stood there at the parlor door listening to a young woman playing. When she spotted him, she was startled, and stopped playing. He pleaded, "O lady, please play some more!" However, this lady, seeing this barefoot, ragged child, simply exclaimed angrily, "Get out of here with your big, bare feet!" Crushed, Philip immediately left. However, he never forgot the sweet sounds coming from that instrument of music. It convicted him all the more that he wanted music to be a part of his life, though he could not as yet perceive what that role would be. The next year (1849), at the tender age of only eleven, Philip Bliss left home to earn his own living. It is said he departed with all of his earthly possessions tied up in a handkerchief. For the next couple of years he worked on a farm, doing the work of a man, for which he was paid $9 per month. It was during this time, when only twelve, that he made his first public confession of Jesus Christ and was immersed. This was 1850. He then began attending a Baptist church that was nearby. Bliss had always been very spiritually-focused as a youth, and just naturally sought out such fellowship. As opportunity presented itself, he also began taking some classes at the local school. At the age of fourteen he left the farm and became an assistant cook in a lumber camp. The next year he was cutting logs, and then moved into the sawmill. One biographer stated that Bliss was well-suited to this hard labor, as "he possessed a strong physique" and was thus able to keep pace with the seasoned lumberjacks. "Young Philip remained strong in the Lord amongst the rowdy, laboring men of the camp, although it was not easy, but the spiritual implants of his godly parents were now bearing fruit" [Ed Reese, from the Christian Hall of Fame biography series]. In the year 1855, at the age of seventeen, Bliss decided to finish the classes required for him to become a school teacher. This he did in fairly short order, working on a farm to support himself at this time. The next year, he was made the schoolmaster at Hartsville, New York. It was the following year, 1857, that he met J. G. Towner, who was the master of a singing school in Towanda, Pennsylvania. Towner spotted Philip's natural talent immediately and began providing him with his first formal voice lessons. Later that same year he helped the young Bliss attend a musical convention in Rome, Pennsylvania (the place of his birth). While at this convention he met William B. Bradbury (1816-1868), one of the best known composers of Christian music at that time. A few of his musical compositions are: 'Tis Midnight, And On Olive's Brow -- Savior, Like A Shepherd Lead Us -- He Leadeth Me -- My Hope Is Built On Nothing Less -- Soldiers Of Christ, Arise -- Sweet Hour of Prayer -- Just As I Am -- Jesus Loves Me -- and countless other Christian classics that have been sung for many generations, and whose well-known melodies fill our memories. By the end of that convention in Rome, Pennsylvania, Bradbury and Bliss had become quite close, and Bradbury convinced the young Philip to seriously consider giving his life into full-time service to the Lord in the area of Christian music. Therefore, Bliss began to try his hand at composing hymns (both the words and music). His very first composition he sent to George F. Root (of the firm Root & Cady in Chicago) with the request, "If you think this song is worth anything, I would appreciate having a flute in exchange for it." Apparently it was, for Philip received his flute. In the year 1858, at only twenty years of age, Philip Bliss was appointed a school teacher at the Rome Academy in his own hometown. While teaching at this institution, he boarded with the family of O. F. Young, which would turn out to be one of the most fortunate moves of his life. He soon fell deeply in love with the daughter of this man, Lucy J. Young, who was also one of his own sister's best friends. They were married on June 1, 1859 [a picture of Lucy, which was taken around the time of the marriage, appears above]. Not only a strong Christian girl, Lucy was also a musician and poet, and she would prove to be a devoted helpmeet to him throughout his life of ministry in song. Not long thereafter, Bliss heard about the Normal Academy of Music located at Geneseo, New York. He desperately wanted to attend, but his wages were only $13 a month. Thus, Lucy's grandmother, seeing how deeply Philip longed to attend this school, produced a stocking filled with silver coins totaling more than $30, which she gave to him so that he might go to this music school. Upon completion of this difficult six week course of instruction, Bliss was certified as a music teacher. He began traveling about the area, with a $20 melodeon and an old horse, teaching music classes to whomever was interested. In time, he came to be known as quite an authority on music. In the year 1864, Philip and Lucy Bliss moved to Chicago. He taught numerous classes on music while there, and his fame as a teacher and singer began to spread. He was also producing a number of hymns at this time. In the summer of 1865 he went on a concert tour that lasted two weeks, and for which he was paid $100. He and Lucy were amazed that so much money could be made in such a short time, and he began to see this as an avenue where he could not only serve the Lord but also support his family. His dreams were almost shattered, however, when he was drafted into the Union Army. However, after a couple of weeks it was decided that they did not need his services after all (the war being almost over). Therefore, Bliss was release to return to his home. He was then offered a position with the Chicago music publishing firm Root & Cady at a salary of $150 per month, which he readily accepted. For the next eight years (1865 to 1873) he and his wife, sponsored by the above firm, held countless musical conventions, singing schools, and spiritual concerts. During this same time he affiliated himself with the First Congregational Church in Chicago, where he served as chorus director and superintendent of the Sunday School. During his time with the publishing firm of Root & Cady, during the summer of 1869, Philip Bliss happened to pass by a church one evening where Dwight L. Moody was preaching a revival. He decided to go in and listen to the message. That evening, D. L. Moody was without a musical director, and the singing from the audience was rather poor. However, Philip's voice rang out above the others to such an extent that it attracted the attention of Moody, who sought out Bliss and urged him to come to his Sunday evening meetings and help with the singing. This he did. In 1873, D. L. Moody wrote Bliss from England, and then later from Scotland, urging him to become his music director. Bliss declined. Not long afterward, though, Bliss did decide to commit himself to full-time evangelistic ministry. He joined together with Major D. W. Whittle, a popular evangelist of the day, and a preaching/singing team was born that would long be remembered, even after both had passed from this life. Their first gospel meeting was held in Waukegan, Illinois, on March 24-26, 1874. It was during this meeting that Philip Bliss sang one of his most famous hymns -- Almost Persuaded -- which had a tremendous effect upon the crowd. Some present would later write, "The Holy Spirit seemed to fill the hall" when Bliss sang that particular hymn. The day after the meeting, when Bliss reflected upon how powerful the impact was upon the audience, he knelt in prayer and vowed to God to surrender everything so that he might serve Him fully. The fame of the preaching/singing team of Whittle and Bliss (and it should be noted that his wife Lucy was always there with him, constantly assisting him in his work) grew and grew, until finally it was requested they bring their evangelistic ministry to England. Moody urged them to accept this invitation, and so they agreed. Their plans were to hold a meeting in Chicago, at Moody's congregation, shortly after Christmas, and then leave for a preaching tour of England. On November 24, 1876, Philip Bliss sang at a large gathering of ministers hosted by D. L. Moody in Chicago's Farwell Hall. Over a thousand preachers of the gospel were present. It was at this gathering he first sang a new song for which he had written the music -- It Is Well With My Soul. Bliss then conducted an evangelistic service at the Michigan state prison, with over 800 inmates present. It was later reported that many of these inmates wept openly as he sang another of his hymns: Hallelujah, What A Savior! Philip and Lucy Bliss spent the Christmas holidays of 1876 with his mother and sister at Towanda and Rome, Pennsylvania. Their two small sons were also with them -- Philip Paul (age: 1) and George (age: 4). After Christmas he wired a telegram to D. L. Moody, "Tickets for Chicago, via Buffalo and Lake Shore Railroad. Baggage checked through. Shall be in Chicago Friday night. God bless you all forever." Deciding at the last minute to leave the two small boys with his mother, as Philip and Lucy would be quite busy with the large event upcoming, they boarded the train for Chicago on December 29, 1876. There was a huge snow storm taking place that day, with drifts piled high. It was later reported by passengers that the train never was able to gain any significant speed during the journey. There were eleven coaches pulled by two engines, with about 160 people aboard. In that number were Philip and Lucy Bliss. At eight o'clock that evening, while crossing a ravine that was 75' deep, the bridge gave way and the entire train, except for the first engine, plunged into the depths below. This was just outside the town of Ashtabula, Ohio. Five minutes after the train fell, fire broke out and, fanned by gale force winds, quickly consumed the wreckage. Two out of every three passengers aboard that train perished in the fall and the fire. According to a dispatch to the Chicago Tribune the next day, "When morning came, all that remained of the Pacific Express was a row of car wheels, axles, brake-irons, truck-frames and twisted rails lying in a black pool at the bottom of the gorge. There are no remains that can ever be identified. The three charred, shapeless lumps recovered up to noon today are beyond all hope of recognition. Old or young, male or female, black or white, no man can tell. For the rest, there are piles of white ashes in which glisten the crumbling particles of calcined bones." According to an eye-witness (who happened to be one of the surviving passengers), who was in the car next to the one containing Philip and Lucy Bliss, "When the train fell, Mr. Bliss succeeded in crawling through a window, supposing he could pull his wife after him. But she was jammed fast and every effort of his was unavailing. The car was all jammed up, and the lady was caught in the ironwork of the seats. Finding that he could not save her, he stayed there with her and died." Simons wrote, in 1877, "He would not escape by deserting his noble wife, and they went Home together, in a baptism of fire." A newspaper reported, "Mr. Bliss succeeded in extricating himself and crawling to safety through a window. Finding that his wife was pinned under the ironwork of the seats, he returned into the car, bravely remaining at her side, trying to extricate her as the flames took their toll. All that remained was a charred mass. No trace of their bodies was ever discovered." Major D. W. Whittle, who went immediately to the scene of this great tragedy, and who remained there for three days searching for any sign of personal effects, later wrote, "We found nothing. They have gone, as absolutely and completely gone as if translated like Enoch." Memorial services were held throughout the nation in honor of Philip Bliss and his wife Lucy. A monument to him was also erected in Rome, Pennsylvania. On December 31, D. L. Moody officiated at a memorial service in Chicago at which 8,000 gathered inside the hall, and another 4,000 outside in the cold, to pay tribute to this man and his wife. It was said, "No private citizen's death brought more grief to the nation!" Moody declared, "His face was always bright and his heart full of Christian love." A collection was taken for the two surviving children of Philip and Lucy Bliss, and over $10,000 was raised for them. They were also assigned what their father had always refused to accept for himself -- a share in the copyright royalties of his many beloved hymns, which included such favorites as: Hallelujah! What A Savior -- I Gave My Life For Thee -- It Is Well With My Soul -- I Will Sing Of My Redeemer -- Wonderful Words Of Life -- Let The Lower Lights Be Burning -- More Holiness Give Me -- and countless others. When the baggage that had been sent ahead arrived, the words of a newly penned hymn by P. P. Bliss was found among his belongings. It was the last hymn he ever wrote. The words are a fitting tribute to this great man, who walked by faith, not by sight! One step I see before me. 'Tis all I need to see, The light of heaven more brightly shines, When earth's illusions flee; And sweetly thro' the silence comes His loving "Follow Me." O blissful lack of wisdom, 'Tis blessed not to know; He holds me with His own right hand, And will not let me go, And lulls my troubled soul to rest In Him who loves me so. So on I go, not knowing, I would not if I might; I'd rather walk in the dark with God Than go alone in the light; I'd rather walk by faith with Him Than go alone by sight. Very Special Request --- Reflections readers, there is a young couple doing a tremendous work for our Lord as missionaries in Cochabamba, Bolivia. Their names are Jeff & Katie Forbess (his blog site is featured in the section above). I have personally known Jeff Forbess since his early elementary school days, and am good friends with his parents (his father is a minister/elder in Missouri). The whole family used to be members of the congregation for which I preached in Santa Fe, NM many years ago (his father serving as a deacon there). This young couple, Jeff & Katie, have just learned that they are going to be losing a huge portion of their monthly financial support for this mission effort, and, if their work in Bolivia is to continue, they are really going to need some help. If any of you know of individuals or congregations who may be looking to become involved in a powerful work abroad, I would urge you to put them in touch immediately with the Forbess family. They can examine their work at the blog site above (which includes pictures), or they can email them personally at jcforbess@hotmail.com for further information. At the very least, please keep this devoted young family in your prayers that God may provide the means for them to continue in this work. Thank you! --- Al Maxey From a Reader in Texas: Dear Al, I just finished your article on Herod Agrippa II and his statement to Paul. It was well done, and I have shared that same viewpoint for a very long time. However, as others may have already pointed out to you, I believe you made an error in the second paragraph when you said that Herod Philip ordered the death of John the Baptist. I believe the NT makes clear that it was Herod Antipas. I continue to agree with you about 98% of the time, though! From a Reader in Pennsylvania: Dear Al, I very much enjoy reading and being challenged each week by your Reflections. I also have your book Down, But Not Out. That, along with your published debates, were quite enlightening and very much appreciated. Would you please send me all four volumes of your Reflections on CD. The check is enclosed. From a Reader in Michigan: Dear Bro. Al, Thanks for another illuminating treatise. The way in which you presented all the background information on Paul's defense before Herod Agrippa II really made the story come alive. From a Pastor in California: Brother Al, Thanks for a well-researched piece on Agrippa II. It saved me some research time in preparing for my Sunday School class in a few weeks as we study through the book of Acts. It appears that the collective wisdom of your readers is unanimous and emphatic -- avoid Daniel Coe like the plague!! Even Jesus and the apostles shook the dust from their sandals and went where they had an open-minded audience. Bro. Al, keep on preaching and living grace. You're making a difference in many lives and churches. Best wishes for a great 2007, brother. From a Minister in Oregon: Brother Al, I concur with what many of your readers have said. My jaw also is still bruised from hitting the floor after reading Daniel Coe's article Jesus and Legalism. Talk about not reading a passage in context. That was just about the absolute worst interpretation of a biblical passage that I have ever heard. No wonder his brethren on the Contending for the Faith web site were silent. Al, your article this week was a personal shocker. Who knew that Agrippa II wasn't almost persuaded?! I surely didn't. I think maybe we can see by this that these "quickie conversions" that are sought after at Gospel Meetings, and through door-knocking campaigns, might not be the best way to truly win souls for Jesus after all. It takes a relationship with a person to gain the trust necessary to really bring them to Christ and change their lives forever. Great stuff, Al. Thanks! From a Reader in Illinois: Dear Bro. Al, I've greatly enjoyed your Reflections now for over a year. I stumbled upon your web site while processing out of the Seventh Day Adventist church. Some of the legalistic dilemmas you confront in your articles struck home. It appears that legalists everywhere have the very same fear-based personalities, laced with black and white thinking. From a New Reader in Texas: Bro. Al, Will you send me your weekly Reflections? Thanks! I preached for about 27-28 years, and am now semi-retired near Lubbock, Texas. I know that a legalistic attitude is bad for the church, but can't we hold to Truth and accept the grace of God at the same time?! From a Minister in California: Brother Al, I pulled out an old issue of IMAGE magazine the other day (July/August, 1994) to recheck some facts about a blog article I intend to write for next week, and I noticed that you had an article published in that particular issue titled "A Time of Worship Reformation." The only article I've ever had published was in that very same issue. How interesting that long before I knew you and began reading your Reflections, I had read you in IMAGE and liked what you had to say there as well. ******************** If you would like to be removed from or added to this mailing list, contact me and I will immediately comply. If you are challenged by these Reflections, then feel free to send them on to others and encourage them to write for a free subscription. These articles may all be purchased on CD. Check the ARCHIVES for details and past issues of these weekly Reflections: http://www.zianet.com/maxey/Reflect2.htm


--- [Philip Bliss List of compositions - en.instr.scorser.com] ---
Philip Bliss Song Simple Sandie's Sang and Story WikipediaPhilip Paul Bliss (9 July 1838 – 29 December 1876) was an American composer, conductor, writer of hymns and a bass-baritone Gospel singer. He wrote many well-known hymns, including "Almost Persuaded" (1871); "Hallelujah, What a Saviour!" (1875); "Let the Lower Lights Be Burning"; "Wonderful Words of Life" (1875); and the tune for Horatio Spafford's "It Is Well with My Soul" (1876). Bliss's house in Rome, Pennsylvania, is now operated as the Philip P. Bliss Gospel Songwriters Museum. P. P. Bliss was born in Clearfield County, Pennsylvania in a log cabin. His father was Mr. Isaac Bliss, who taught the family to pray daily. And his mother was Lydia Doolittle. He loved music and was allowed to develop his passion for singing. His sister was Mary Elizabeth Willson, a gospel singer, singer, composer and evangelist. When he was a boy, Bliss's family moved to Kinsman, Ohio in 1844, and then returned to Pennsylvania in 1847, settling first in Espeyville, Crawford County, and a year later in Tioga County. Bliss had little formal education and was taught by his mother, from the Bible. At age 10, while selling vegetables to help support the family, Bliss first heard a piano. At age 11, he left home to make his own living. He worked in timber camps and sawmills. While working, he irregularly went to school to further his education. At 17, Bliss finished his requirements to teach. The next year, in 1856, he became a schoolmaster at Hartsville, New York, and during the summer he worked on a farm. In 1857, Bliss met J. G. Towner, who taught singing. Towner recognized Bliss's talent and gave him his first formal voice training. He also met William B. Bradbury, who persuaded him to become a music teacher. His first musical composition was sold for a flute. In 1858, he took up an appointment in Rome Academy, Pennsylvania. In 1858, in Rome, Bliss met Lucy J. Young, whom he married on June 1, 1859. She came from a musical family and encouraged the development of his talent. She was a Presbyterian, and Bliss joined her Church. At age 22, Bliss became an itinerant music teacher. On horseback, he went from community to community accompanied by a melodeon. In July of 1860, the Normal Academy of Music was held in Geneseo, New York was being held for the music community. Musicians of renown were administrating the six-week event. Bliss was so excited about it, but when he realized that he could in no way afford the expense of the school, he was heartbroken. He knew it would be a great experience for him, but he had no money! When (Bliss' wife's) Grandma Allen noticed his sad demeanor she was full of sympathy. She asked him what it costs, he replied that it would "cost as much as thirty dollars". After telling him that thirty dollars "was a good deal of money", she told him of her old stocking that she has been "dropping pieces of silver for a good many years". She had Bliss count the amount of money in the stocking, they realized it had more than the amount needed. "And Bliss spent six weeks of the heartiest study of his life at the Normal". Bliss was now recognized as an expert within his local area. He continued the itinerant teaching. At this time he turned to composition. None of his songs were ever copyrighted. In 1864, the Blisses moved to Chicago. Bliss was then 26. He became known as a singer and teacher. He wrote a number of Gospel songs. Bliss was paid $100 for a concert tour which lasted only a fortnight. He was amazed so much money could be earned so quickly. The following week, he was drafted for service in the Union Army. Because the war was almost over, his notice was canceled after a few weeks. The unit he served with was the 149th Pennsylvania Infantry. Following this, Bliss went on another concert tour, but this failed. He was, however, offered a position at Root and Cady Musical Publishers, at a salary of $150 per month. Bliss worked with this company from 1865 until 1873. He conducted musical conventions, singing schools and concerts for his employers. He continued to compose hymns, which were often printed in his employer's books. In 1869, Bliss formed an association with Dwight L. Moody. Moody and others urged him to give up his job and become a missionary singer. In 1874, Bliss decided he was called to full-time Christian evangelism. Bliss made significant amounts of money from royalties and gave them to charity and to support his evangelical endeavours. Bliss wrote the gospel song "Hold the Fort" after hearing Major Daniel Webster Whittle narrate an experience in the American Civil War. On 29 December 1876, the Pacific Express train on which Bliss and his wife were traveling in approached Ashtabula, Ohio. While the train was in the process of crossing a trestle bridge it collapsed, and the carriages fell into the ravine below. Bliss escaped from the wreck, but the carriages caught fire and Bliss returned to try to extricate his wife. No trace of either body was discovered. Ninety-two of the 159 passengers are believed to have died in what became known as the Ashtabula River Railroad Disaster. The Blisses were survived by their two sons, George and Philip Paul, then aged four and one, respectively. A monument to Bliss was erected in Rome, Pennsylvania. Found in his trunk, which somehow survived the crash and fire, was a manuscript bearing the lyrics of the only well-known Bliss Gospel song for which he did not write a tune: "I Will Sing of My Redeemer." Soon thereafter, set to a tune specially written for it by James McGranahan, it became one of the first songs recorded by Thomas Alva Edison. According to the Philip P. Bliss Gospel Songwriters Museum, the books of songs by Bliss are as follows: The Charm (1871); The Song Tree, a collection of parlor and concert music (1872); The Sunshine for Sunday Schools (1873); The Joy for conventions and for church choir music (1873); and Gospel Songs for Gospel meetings and Sunday schools (1874). All of these books were copyrighted by John Church and Co. In addition to these publications, in 1875, Bliss compiled, and in connection with Ira D. Sankey, edited Gospel Hymns and Sacred Songs. In 1876, his last work was the preparation of the book known as Gospel Hymns No. 2, Sankey being associated with him as editor. These last two books are published by John Church and Co. and Biglow and Main jointly - the work of Mr. Bliss in them, under the copyright of John Church and Co. Many of his pieces appear in the books of George F. Root and Horatio R. Palmer, and many were published in sheet music form. A large number of his popular pieces were published in The Prize, a book of Sunday school songs edited by Root in 1870. Three of his hyms appear in the 1985 hymnbook of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Brightly Beams Our Father's Mercy (#335) (popularly known as Let the Lower Lights Be Burning); More Holiness Give Me (#131); and Should You Feel Inclined to Censure (#235) (words by an anonymous writer put to the tune of "Brightly Beams Our Father's Mercy"}. Survivors of the RMS Titanic disaster, including Dr. Washington Dodge, reported that passengers in lifeboats sang the Bliss hymn "Pull For The Shore", some while rowing. During a 11 May 1912 luncheon talk at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco, just a few weeks after his family and he survived the sinking of the ocean liner, Dodge recounted: "Watching the vessel closely, it was seen from time to time that this submergence forward was increasing. No one in our boat, however, had any idea that the ship was in any danger of sinking. In spite of the intense cold, a cheerful atmosphere pervaded those present, and they indulged from time to time in jesting and even singing `Pull for (the) Shore' ..."


--- [The Life and Ministry of Philip Bliss - Christian Hall of Fame series] ---
Born: July 9, 1838, Rome, Pennsylvania 1 Died: December 29, 1876, Ashtabula, Ohio Life Span: 38 years, 5 months, 20 days Philip Paul Bliss is the second most famous Christian song writer in history. Had he lived as long as his peers, Fanny Crosby, Charles Wesley and Ira Sankey, he may have surpassed them all, as the greatest song writer of all time and the most widely used singer of all time, but a tragic accidental train wreck snuffed out his life in his 38th year. Should anyone challenge this conclusion, let us check out his contributions. For twelve years, he wrote both words and music to such hymns as the following: Almost Persuaded, Dare to Be a Daniel, Hallelujah 'Tis Done!, Hallelujah, What a Saviour!, Hold the Fort, Jesus Loves Even Me, Let the Lower Lights Be Burning, Once for All, The Light of the World Is Jesus, Whosoever Will, and Wonderful Words of Life. He wrote only the words for My Redeemer and wrote only the music for I Gave My Life for Thee, It Is Well with My Soul, and Precious Promise. How is that for a starter! There were and are hundreds more. Some of his songs widely used back when he wrote them, are not so well known today. They are: Are Your Windows Open Toward Jerusalem, Only an Armour-Bearer, More Holiness Give Me, Pull for the Shore, and Will You Meet Me at the Fountain?. None of his songs were ever copyrighted. Mr. Bliss was born with a melody in his heart, in a log cabin home in a mountain region [see Birthplace of P. P. Bliss]. His father, Mr. Isaac Bliss, was a dedicated Christian man. The first spiritual recollections that Bliss had of his father were the daily family prayers. These prayers were ingrained upon childhood memory, ever to follow him throughout life. His father was a lover of music and it was through his father that he developed a passion for singing. They attended the Methodist Church. When Philip was about six the family moved to Trumbull City, Ohio, but three years later returned to Pennsylvania, settling in Tioga City. During the first ten years of his life, the lad had little schooling, save his father's singing and his mother's teachings. The Holy Bible became an ever-growing influence in his life. At the age of ten, he heard the piano for the first time and it deepened his burden to become a musician. The occasion is worth telling. At times, he was allowed to go in to town to sell vegetables from door to door. This was a means of helping the family budget but it also put him in contact with others. One Saturday, with his basket of vegetables, the barefooted, gawky, ten-year old boy was to hear the sweetest music that he had ever listened to. The only things that he could play melodies on were reeds plucked from the marshes. Almost unconscious of what he was doing, he climbed the garden fence of a country estate and entered [the] home unobserved. Standing in the door of the parlor, he listened to a young lady playing the piano, the first he had ever seen. When she stopped, impulsively, he exclaimed, "O lady, please play some more!" Somewhat startled, the woman wheeled and saw the awkward, barefooted boy standing before her and immediately exclaimed, "Get out of here with your big, bare feet!" The boy was unaware that he had trespassed, and he went back to the streets crestfallen. When Philip was eleven years old, in 1849, he left home to make a living for himself. He was to spend the next five years working in logging and lumber camps and sawmills. Having a strong physique, he was able to do a man's work. The next several years took him to many places and tutored him in many trades. At the age of twelve, in 1850, he made his first public confession of Christ and joined the Baptist Church of Cherry Flats, Pennsylvania. He does not recall a time when he did not love Christ, but this was the official time of his conversion. In 1851 he became assistant cook in a lumber camp at $9 per month. Two years later, he was promoted to a log cutter. The following year he became a sawmill worker. Between jobs, he attended school. Uncertain as to what vocation he wanted, he just planned to be prepared for any opportunity that might arise. He spent some of his money in musical education as well. Young Philip remained strong in the Lord amongst the rowdy, laboring men of the camp, although it was not easy, but the spiritual implants of the godly parents were now bearing fruit. He also began to participate in Methodist camp meetings and revival services. At age seventeen, in 1855, he decided that he would take the final step in preparation for his life's work. He went to Bradford City, Pennsylvania and finished the last requirements for his teaching credentials. The next year Philip was the new schoolmaster at Hartsville, New York. When school was not in session, he hired out for summer work on a farm. In 1857 he met J. G. Towner who conducted a vocal school in Towanda, Pennsylvania. Recognizing that young Bliss had an unusually fine singing voice, he proceeded to give him his first formal voice training. Towner also made it possible for him to go to a musical convention in Rome, Pennsylvania, later that year. Here he met William B. Bradbury, a noted composer of sacred music. By the time the convention was over, Bradbury had talked Philip Bliss into surrendering himself to the service of the Lord. The strong influence of these men in his life helped him to decide to be a music teacher. While still in his teens, Philip discovered that he had ability to compose music. His first composition was sent to George F. Root with this strange request, "If you think this song is worth anything, I would appreciate having a flute in exchange for it." He received the flute. In 1858 he was appointed a teacher in the Rome, Pennsylvania, Academy. Here he met a fine young lady named Lucy Young, who was to become his bride. She was a poet from a musical family and greatly encouraged him in developing his musical talents. She was an earnest member of a Presbyterian Church, which he then joined. In later years they were to sing beautiful duets in the service of Christ. Not quite 21, on June 1, 1859, he married Lucy who was also his sister's special friend. He had grown to love her deeply and to admire her for her wonderful Christian life. The young groom worked on his father-in-law's farm for $13 a month while he continued to study music. He took music pupils in the evening to supplement his income and at 22 had sufficient knowledge of music to become an itinerant music teacher. He went from community to community with a $20 melodeon and an ancient horse. It was the day of the old-fashioned singing school which was frequently conducted by a teacher traveling from place to place. Mr. Bliss delighted in these exercises and his musical ability began to attract the attention of his friends. As a teacher of one of these schools, he recognized his limitations and longed to study under some accomplished musician. His wife's grandmother provided that opportunity in the summer of 1860, by giving him $30 so that he could attend the Normal Academy of Music of New York. This meant six weeks of hard study and inspiration. Upon completion, he took the occupation of professional music teacher in earnest. Within three years, having attended each summer session and studying the rest of the year at home, Mr. Bliss was now recognized as a music authority in his home area, while continuing to travel his circuit. His talent was turning to composition, and his first published number ... Loral Vale ... though not a sacred number, caused him to believe that he could write songs. This number was published in 1865, one year after it was written. The Blisses moved to Chicago in 1864 when Philip was 26. It was here he began to conduct musical institutes and became widely known as a teacher and a singer. His poems and compositions flowed out with regularity. He collaborated with George F. Root in the writing and publishing of gospel songs. In the summer of 1865, he went on a two-week concert tour with Mr. Towner. He was paid $100. Amazed that so much money could be made in so short a time, he began to dream dreams. These dreams were short lived. The following week a summons appeared at his door stating that he was drafted for service in the Union Army. Since the war was almost over, the decision was cancelled after two weeks, and he was released. He then went on another concert tour but this one was a failure. However, during the tour he was offered a position with a Chicago Music House, Root and Cady Musical Publishers, at a salary of $150 per month. For the next eight years, between 1865 and 1873, often with his wife by his side, he held musical conventions, singing schools, and sacred concerts under the sponsorship of his employers. He was becoming more popular in concert work, not yet directing his full efforts into evangelical singing. He was, however, writing a number of hymns and Sunday school melodies, and many of these were incorporated into the books, The Triumph and The Prize. One summer night in 1869, while passing a revival meeting in a church where D. L. Moody was preaching, Mr. Bliss went inside to listen. That night Mr. Moody was without musical help for the singing and Mr. Bliss was aware of it. The singing was rather weak. From the audience, Philip attracted Mr. Moody's attention. At the door, Mr. Moody got the particulars about Mr. Bliss quite quickly and asked him to come to his Sunday evening meetings to help in the singing any time he could. He further urged him to give up his business and become a singing evangelist. Another chance acquaintance came with Major Daniel W. Whittle, when Mr. Bliss was a substitute song leader in a gospel meeting. Impressed with his voice, Mr. Whittle recommended the young man for the position of choir director at the First Congregational Church in Chicago. This was in 1870. The Blisses moved into an apartment in the Whittle home, and while living there, he wrote two of his most popular hymns... Hold the Fort and Jesus Loves Even Me. Yearly, new songs were published with many of Bliss's songs included. His fame began spreading. In the fall of 1870, Mr. Bliss assumed the additional task of Sunday school Superintendent at the Congregational Church, which work lasted for three years until his busy schedule made it impossible for him to continue. His first Sunday school book, The Charm, was issued in 1871. Early in 1873 Moody asked Bliss to be his music director for some meetings in England. Bliss declined and Sankey was then asked to go. Little did Bliss realize the opportunity he had turned down, for it might have been "Moody and Bliss" instead of "Moody and Sankey," for that tour bought Moody into international prominence. During the winter of 1873 Moody again urged him in a letter from Scotland to devote his entire time to evangelistic singing. Mr. Bliss was facing a time of decision. At a prayer meeting, Mr. Bliss placed himself at the disposal of the Lord, and he decided to lay out a fleece. He would join his friend Major Whittle, a good evangelist, in Waukegan, Illinois, and see what would happen. That was March 24-26, 1874. At one of the services as Mr. Bliss sang Almost Persuaded, the Holy Spirit seemed to fill the hall. As he sang, sinners presented themselves for prayer and many souls were won to Jesus Christ that night. The following afternoon, as they met for prayer, Mr. Bliss made a formal surrender of his life to Jesus Christ. He gave up everything — his musical conventions, his writing of secular songs, his business position, his work at the church, so that he would be free to devote full time to the singing of sacred music in evangelism, in particular to be Mr. Whittle's song evangelist and children's worker. At the same time, Mr. Whittle dedicated his life to full-time evangelism. A gospel team was born. Little did Mr. Bliss know that he only had two and one-half years to live. Depending upon the Lord to take care of his wife and two children, he joined Whittle in a successful evangelistic career. Mr. Bliss compiled a revival song-book for use in their campaigns entitled Gospel Songs. It was a tremendous success, bringing royalties of $30,000, all of which he gave to Whittle for the development of their evangelistic efforts. Another source mentions $60,000 was made and given to charities. Later when Moody and Sankey returned from England, Sankey and Bliss combined their respective books, Sankey's Sacred Songs and Solos with Bliss's book. The new compilation was called Gospel Hymns and Sacred Songs by Bliss and Sankey. Mr. Bliss, of course, was elated at this further exposure of his ministries. Several editions were later published with George C. Stebbins collaborating also. Meanwhile, the Whittle-Bliss team held some twenty-five campaigns in Illinois, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Minnesota, Mississippi, Alabama, and Georgia. The 1875 Louisville, Kentucky, meeting was an especially good one. Mr. Bliss especially enjoyed working with young people and often conducted his own "praise meetings." where he would preach and sing. On Friday, November 24, 1876, Mr. Bliss sang at a ministers' meeting conducted by D. L. Moody in Chicago's Farwell Hall. Over 1,000 preachers were present. A favorite song that was sung, was Are Your Windows Open Toward Jerusalem. Also, he introduced to the gathering a new song that he had just written the music for ... It is Well with My Soul. He now had one month to live. Next, he conducted a service for the 800 inmates of the Michigan State prison. In genuine repentance, many of them wept as he spoke of the love of God and sang, Hallelujah, What a Saviour! The last hymn that he ever sang in a public meeting was one of his own, called Eternity. Mr. Bliss spent the Christmas holidays with his mother and sister at Towanda and Rome, Pennsylvania, and made plans to return to Chicago for work with Moody in January. A telegram, however, arrived asking him to return sooner, in order to take part in meetings advertised for the Sunday following Christmas. He wired a message. "Tickets for Chicago, via Buffalo and Lake Shore Railroad. Baggage checked through. Shall be in Chicago Friday night. God bless you all forever." He decided to leave his two little children, Philip Paul age 1 and George age 4, with his mother. Then, the day that was to stun the Christian world arrived, December 29, 1876. The train, the Pacific Express, was struggling along in a blinding snowstorm and was about three hours late on a Friday afternoon. Eleven coaches pulled by two engines were creeping through the huge drifts, approaching Ashtabula, Ohio. Passing over a trestle bridge that was spanning a river, the first engine reached solid ground on the other side but everything else plummeted 75 feet into the ravine below into the icy water. Later, it was determined that flood waters had weakened the bridge. Five minutes after the train fell, fire broke out. Fanned by gale like winds, the wooden coaches were ablaze. Mr. Bliss succeeded in extricating himself and crawling to safety through a window. Finding his wife was pinned under the ironwork of the seats, he returned into the car, and bravely remained at her side, trying to extricate her as the flames took their toll. All that remained was a charred mass. No trace of their bodies was ever discovered. For days it was not known who were among the dead, as there had been no passenger list. It was tabulated that out of 160 passengers there were only 14 survivors. Later official sources said 92 died. In most cases, there was nothing to recover. [See Ashtabula Bridge Disaster] Mr. Bliss's trunk reached Chicago safely. When it was opened, it was found that the last song that he had written before his death [refers to the hymn, "He Knows" which was written by Mary G. Brainard; P. P. Bliss added the chorus and composed the music], began as follows: "I know not what awaits me. God kindly veils my eyes..." The trunk contained many hymn-poems which he had not yet written the music for. One such was My Redeemer, which became world famous, when music was added by James McGranahan. McGranahan, by the way, age 36 at the time of Bliss's death, was so moved by the tragedy that he decided to give up his miscellaneous works and succeed Bliss as Whittle's evangelistic singer. The funeral was held in Rome, Pennsylvania, where a monument was erected bearing the inscription, "P. P. Bliss, author... Hold the Fort!" Memorial services were held throughout the nation for the beloved couple. No private citizen's death brought more grief to the nation. On December 31st, D. L. Moody spoke at a memorial gathering in Chicago. On January 5th, a song service was held to honor Mr. Bliss there and 8,000 filled the hall, and another 4,000 were on the outside. Here are the stories of a few of his hymns: Almost Persuaded... Outside of Just as I Am, this has been the most successful gospel invitation song ever written. In the early 1870's, Mr. Bliss was listening to a sermon by Rev. Brundage, a friend of his, in a little church in the east. The preacher closed his appeal with, "He who is almost persuaded is almost saved. But, to be almost saved is to be eternally lost!" These words impressed Bliss so deeply that it led him to write this great hymn. Hold the Fort... In 1864, General Hood, during the Civil War, was successful in harassing Colonel Sherman's Army from the rear, thereby delaying its advance to the objective. As the situation looked hopeless they saw a white flag waving on a distant mountain twenty miles away signaling this message, "Hold the Fort! I am coming. Sherman." Three hours later the enemy had to retreat as the reinforcements came. In May, 1870, at a special Sunday School meeting in Rockford, Illinois, Whittle's telling of this story greatly moved Bliss. The next day in a Chicago YMCA meeting. Mr. Bliss wrote a chorus on a blackboard and sang for them extemporaneously. The audience joined in and the effect was electric. Jesus Loves Even Me... One night, MR. Bliss, weary after many days of labor in downtown Chicago, was resting at the Whittle home at 43 South Street. His heart was overflowing with joy and he sat meditating upon Romans 5:5. As he meditated and prayed, with tears in his eyes, he took pencil and paper and wrote, "I am so glad that our Father in heaven, Tells of His love in the Book He has given..." Let the Lower Lights be Burning... On occasion, Mr. Bliss would travel with Moody and be a participant at his meetings. One time Mr. Moody was telling the story of a shipwreck in one of his messages. On a dark stormy night, a large passenger boat cautiously edged toward the Cleveland harbor. The pilot knew that he could only find the harbor channel by keeping two lower shore lights in line with the main beacon. "Are you sure this is Cleveland?" asked the captain. "Quite sure, Sir," replied the pilot. "Where are the lower lights?" he asked. "Gone out, Sir!" was the reply. The pilot turned the wheel, but in the darkness, he missed the channel. The boat crashed on the rocks and many lives were lost that night. Mr. Moody's closing words were, "Brethren, the Master will take care of the great lighthouse; let us keep the lower lights burning." At the next meeting with Mr. Moody, Mr. Bliss sang this song... Let the Lower Lights Be Burning. It was published in 1874. It is said that this was the favorite hymn of Billy Sunday. We end this sketch noting It is Well with My Soul whose words were written by Horatio G. Spafford. On November 22, 1873, this preacher and good friend of Mr. Bliss lost his four children in the depths of the Atlantic Ocean, as a result of a collision. Mr. Spafford had sent his wife and children ahead, promising to meet them in France, shortly. He wrote the verses in mid-Atlantic on his way over to join his bereaved wife. He asked Mr. Bliss to write the music for his verses. It was introduced publicly for the first time at the previously mentioned ministers' meeting in Chicago in November, 1876. One month later, it was well with Mr. Bliss's soul, as he was reunited with the Spafford children. Used with permission, 7/13/99. No. 25 in Christian Hall of Fame series by Ed Reese. >> More P. P. Bliss
