=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Which city was host to the India-Bangladesh SAMPRITI-IX joint military ...]
Q. Which city was host to the India-Bangladesh SAMPRITI-IX joint military exercise? Answer: Umroi Notes: The 9th edition of the Joint exercise between the armies of India and Bangladesh, SAMPRITI recently concluded at Umroi, Meghalaya. The two-week exercise was held from February 3 to 16, 2020. The personnel of the two countries shared their experiences on counter-insurgency, counter-terrorism ...
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/which-city-was-host-to-the-india-bangladesh-sampri

[Curtain Raiser: India-Bangladesh JT Exercise SAMPRITI-IX]
Jan 30, 2020 · Exercise SAMPRITI is an important bilateral defence cooperation endeavour between India and Bangladesh and will be the ninth edition of the exercise which is hosted alternately by both countries. During the joint military exercise SAMPRITI-IX a Command Post Exercise (CPX) and a Field Training Exercise (FTX) will be conducted.
URL: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1601128

[India-Bangladesh joint military exercise begins in Meghalaya]
Feb 3, 2020 — As part of the ongoing Indo-Bangladesh defence cooperation, a joint military training exercise Sampriti-IX has been started in Meghalaya on ...
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/india-bangladesh-joint-military-exercise-1642994-2020-02-03

[Sampriti - Ix - दृष्टि आईएएस]
Jan 31, 2020 · A joint military training exercise between India and Bangladesh ‘SAMPRITI-IX’ will be conducted at Umroi, Meghalaya from 3 rd- 16 th february, 2020. The exercise aims to build, strengthen and promote positive relations between the Armies of India and Bangladesh.
URL: https://www.drishtiias.com/daily-updates/daily-news-analysis/sampriti-ix

[SAMPRITI-IX: Indo-Bangladesh joint military exercise concludes in Meghalaya]
Feb 17, 2020 · Over the past two weeks, with effect from 03 February to 16 February 2020, Armies of India and Bangladesh participated in joint military exercise SAMPRITI-IX at Umroi, Meghalaya. As the 9th edition of the Joint Exercise SAMPRITI reached its culmination day on 16 February 2020, the Head of Observer Delegations from both sides conveyed their appreciation for both the participating contingents ...
URL: https://indusscrolls.com/sampriti-ix-indo-bangladesh-joint-military-exercise-concludes-in-meghalaya


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Which city was host to the India-Bangladesh SAMPRITI-IX joint military ...] ---
Q. Which city was host to the India-Bangladesh SAMPRITI-IX joint military exercise? Answer: Umroi Notes: The 9th edition of the Joint exercise between the armies of India and Bangladesh, SAMPRITI recently concluded at Umroi, Meghalaya. The two-week exercise was held from February 3 to 16, 2020. The personnel of the two countries shared their experiences on counter-insurgency, counter-terrorism operations and disaster management techniques. The exercise helped to strengthen ties between India and Bangladesh, and mutual operability between the armies.


--- [Curtain Raiser: India-Bangladesh JT Exercise SAMPRITI-IX] ---
Ministry of Defence Curtain Raiser: India-Bangladesh JT Exercise SAMPRITI-IX Posted On: 30 JAN 2020 4:52PM by PIB Delhi As part of the ongoing Indo-Bangladesh defence cooperation, a joint military training exercise SAMPRITI-IX is being conducted at UMROI, Meghalaya, India from 03 Feb to 16 Feb 2020. Exercise SAMPRITI is an important bilateral defence cooperation endeavour between India and Bangladesh and will be the ninth edition of the exercise which is hosted alternately by both countries. During the joint military exercise SAMPRITI-IX a Command Post Exercise (CPX) and a Field Training Exercise (FTX) will be conducted. For both the CPX and FTX, a scenario where both nations are working together in a Counter Terrorism environment will be simulated under the UN Charter. The FTX curriculum is progressively planned where the participants will initially get familiar with each other’s organizational structure and tactical drills. Subsequently, joint tactical exercise will be conducted wherein the battle drills of both the armies will be practiced. The training will culminate with a final validation exercise in which troops of both armies will jointly practice a Counter Terrorist Operation in a controlled and simulated environment. In addition, to understand each other at tactical level, greater cultural understanding will be emphasized to strengthen military trust and cooperation between two nations. ********** Col Aman Anand PRO (Army) (Release ID: 1601128) Visitor Counter : 1881


--- [India-Bangladesh joint military exercise begins in Meghalaya] ---
India-Bangladesh joint military exercise begins in Meghalaya A joint military training exercise knows as Sampriti -IX has taken off today as part of the Indo-Bangladesh defence cooperation. As part of the ongoing Indo-Bangladesh defence cooperation, a joint military training exercise Sampriti-IX has been started in Meghalaya on Monday. The ninth edition exercise is scheduled to be conducted at the state-of-the-art Joint Training Node at Umroi Cantonment, about 25 km from Shillong, and will conclude on February 16. The exercise Sampriti is an important bilateral defence cooperation endeavour between India and Bangladesh and will be the ninth edition of the exercise which is hosted alternately by both countries. During the joint military exercise, a Command Post Exercise (CPX) and a Field Training Exercise (FTX) will be conducted. For both the CPX and FTX, a scenario where both nations are working together in a Counter Terrorism environment will be simulated under the UN Charter. The FTX curriculum is progressively planned where the participants will be initially made familiar with each other's organizational structure and tactical drills. Subsequently, joint tactical exercise will be conducted wherein the battle drills of both the armies will be practiced. A total of 142 officers and jawans from each country are taking part in the joint exercise. 20 Bihar Regiment has taken part in the 14-day long joint exercise from the Indian side and 42nd Bangaldesh Infantry Regiment has taken part from the Bangladesh side. Also to understand each other at tactical level, greater cultural understanding will be emphasized to strengthen military trust and cooperation between two nations. Defence PRO Lt Col Harsh Wadhan Pandey said that, today the ninth edition of Ex Sampriti military joint exercise of India and Bangladesh has started at Umroi in Meghalaya. "The main aim of the 14-day long exercise is to train counter terrorism to armies of the both countries. The training will culminate with a final validation exercise in which troops of both armies will jointly practice a Counter Terrorist Operation in a controlled and simulated environment," the Defence PRO said.


--- [Sampriti - Ix - दृष्टि आईएएस] ---
No content


--- [SAMPRITI-IX: Indo-Bangladesh joint military exercise concludes in Meghalaya] ---
No content
