=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John Graham Lough - Wikipedia]
Lough is buried in Kensal Green cemetery, London. One of his younger brothers, Thomas, [1] was a talented musician, artist, and poet, best known for "The Ramshaw Flood" (1848), but declined into vagrancy and poverty, dying at Lanchester Workhouse only a year after John Graham's death.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Graham_Lough

[A tale of two brothers: Thomas and John Graham Lough]
John Graham Lough in his studio by Ralph Hedley: According to Joshua Lax in his 1884 book Historical and Descriptive Poems, this was the sculptor's 'make or break' moment. John Graham Lough's room was too small for him to use his chisel on his statue of Milo, so..."With the recklessness of a bold genius reduced to desperation, he actually broke through the ceiling of the room above him, and ...
URL: http://www.blanchlandhistory.org.uk/poetry/lough.php

[John Graham Lough - Wikidata]
John Graham Lough manner of death natural causes 1 reference based on heuristic inferred from cause of death cause of death pneumonia 1 reference place of burial Kensal Green Cemetery 0 references occupation sculptor 1 reference described by source Dictionary of National Biography, 1885-1900 statement is subject of Lough, John Graham (DNB00 ...
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q6235982

[John Graham Lough - Bio, Personal Life, Family & Cause Of Death ...]
John Graham Lough was born in 1790s. John Graham Lough is part of G.I. Generation also known as The Greatest Generation. This generation experienced much of their youth during the Great Depression and rapid technological innovation such as the radio and the telephone. The initials "G.I." is military terminology referring to "Government Issue" or "G...
URL: https://www.celebsages.com/john-graham-lough/

[Category:John Graham Lough - Wikimedia Commons]
Category Slideshow Media in category "John Graham Lough" The following 7 files are in this category, out of 7 total.
URL: https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:John_Graham_Lough


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John Graham Lough - Wikipedia] ---
John Graham Lough (8 January 1798 – 8 April 1876) was an English sculptor known for his funerary monuments and a variety of portrait sculpture. He also produced ideal classical male and female figures.


--- [A tale of two brothers: Thomas and John Graham Lough] ---
A tale of two brothers: Thomas and John Graham Lough John Graham Lough in his studio by Ralph Hedley: According to Joshua Lax in his 1884 book Historical and Descriptive Poems, this was the sculptor's 'make or break' moment. John Graham Lough's room was too small for him to use his chisel on his statue of Milo, so..."With the recklessness of a bold genius reduced to desperation, he actually broke through the ceiling of the room above him, and made for himself sufficient space to work at his statue. The owner began to take steps for instituting legal proceedings, and even consulted Mr. Brougham (afterwards Lord Brougham) for this purpose. Brougham went to look at the Milo, and see for himself what Lough had done... The news of the strange affair soon spread, and, before long, the whole street where Lough's room was situated was lined with the carriages of ladies and gentlemen, who had come to view the place, and to see Milo." One would achieve international renown as one of the finest sculptors of his time, the other would die a pauper in a County Durham workhouse; the Lough brothers were born more than 200 years ago into an ordinary rural working class family, but their lives would take extraordinary - and very diverging - directions. John Graham and Thomas were two of 11 children born to William and Barbara (nee Clemetson) Lough, John Graham being born on January 8 1798 and Thomas on May 7 1801. John Graham Lough shot to sculptural stardom while still in his twenties; he'd travelled to London to study the Elgin Marbles at the British Museum in 1824. By 1826 he was exhibiting at the Royal Academy, and was feted by London society and bankrolled by wealthy patrons. The Ramshaw Flood... subject of Thomas Lough's 1848 poem His works include the Collingwood Monument at Tynemouth, others that grace the interiors of St Paul's and Canterbury Cathedrals, statues of Victoria and Albert at the Royal Exchange, and even the lions at the foot of Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square. By contrast, his brother Tom's career took the course that was more or less expected of a young man from a humble home; he went into his father's trade, and probably his grandfather's before that. Local historian in the 1960s Fred Wade writes a pitying account of Thomas Lough's wasted talents: "He served his apprenticeship as a blacksmith in his father's shop at Greenhead and later was employed as a blacksmith at the Ramshaw Lead Mines, but he soon left his honourable means of earning a livelihood and took to a life of roaming. He was an able artist, poet and musician, and might have made a name for himself in any one of these professions, but he wasted his talents, and became what we in North West Durham call a "Rodney". All he earned at fairs, shows and hirings by his fiddle went in tobacco and strong drink, which was more to him than nectar to the gods." Other records suggest Tom's decline wasn't quite as definitive as Fred Wade believed; Fred says Lough roamed the counties of Durham and Northumberland for more than 50 years, but he's listed in the 1839 account of Blanchland's Riding the Bounds as one of dozens of 'runners' who joined in with the 'perambulations' of the estate boundaries on foot (and admittedly much beer was consumed at the rest points and in the pubs along the way). One other interesting record which has come to light is an 1831 article from "The New Sportsman" magazine, in which the author who is visiting the area for the grouse shooting, tells of a chance meeting on the road to Blanchland... "By degrees, we learned that his name was Lough, and to the inquiry if he was any relation to the Sculptor of that name, he replied, scratching his head - "Why yes, I believe I'm his father, at least so they tell me." At this point, John Graham Lough had been working in Rome for three years; he'd probably not seen his parents for some time! The Ramshaw Flood by Thomas Lough If it had happened today it would have been remembered as "08/08/08": on August 8th, 1808, the North East of England was lashed by a violent storm. John Sykes in his Historical Register of Remarkable Events wrote a lengthy report on the devastation: chimneys destroyed and bell wires inside Newcastle houses melted by lightning; pavements forced up by rushing floodwater; people, sheep and cattle killed by the electric fluid - and this: "A new smelting mill at Derwent-heads, near Blanchland, was nearly swept away by the flood, together with a large quantity of lead ore." Thomas Lough would have been just seven years old at the time, old enough perhaps to have a terrifying memory of being woken in the night by the shrieking power of the storm raging outside. But it would be in his work as a blacksmith at Ramshaw Lead Mines more than 30 years later that he would have heard the old men in Ramshaw relate the dramatic detail of the night, which would provide him with the material for The Ramshaw Flood. Today, "The Bard of Derwent's" overblown rhyming couplets and hyperbolic classical references lead the reader to expect terrible human calamity, death and destruction on a leviathan scale. The reality is more mundane; 'Dent' loses two of his most precious possessions - his pipe tobacco and his pet canaries! The strength of the storm certainly seems to have warranted Thomas' melodramatic descriptions; the floodwaters forced away rocks and boulders to reveal a valuable bounty of lead ore, silver and sparkling fluorspar. According to the sportsman's account, John Graham Lough was rocketed to national and international attention as a sculptor because the owner of Minsteracres Estate, George Silvertop, had seen the lad's potential and helped him make his way. "I remember his debut in the Metropolis," says the author, "and the apparent determination exhibited by part of the press to publish as many mis-statements respecting him as possible. He was lauded to the skies, in a manner enough to ruin any young artist..." So John Graham Lough had a meteoric rise to celebrity status, and back home in Blanchland, brother Thomas, at nearly 30 years old, still seems unable to find a clear direction... The grouse shooter continues his account with their arrival in Blanchland: "A very excellent Inn is kept here by Mr Blenk, where the sportsman finds every accommodation and attention. Lough occupies a small neat cottage about 50 yards out of the square, to which having accompanied him, he showed us several of the earlier productions of the son, and related several instances of his talent; but we were unable to learn from him, that any former member of the family had exhibited a similar genius. "There is another son who, I understand, has since turned his attention to the arts, but who had not then discovered in what department of science his genius reposed." Here, Thomas is mentioned only in passing, and despite his skills as a musician, poet and artist, at the age of 30 he is already in the shadow of his renowned sculptor brother. In his 1884 book Historical and Descriptive Poems, Joshua Lax confirms that Thomas did indeed feel that his brother was stealing his thunder: "Poor Tom often told me how jealous he was when the Squire (George Silvertop) entered the cottage lest John should claim some of his drawings..." It must have galled him to have to namedrop his brother, the famous sculptor, in the subtitle of his poem The Ramshaw Flood, published in 1848, presumably to sell more copies of his own work. But by then, perhaps he was grasping at any celebrity he could. In contrast to Fred Wade's conclusion of alcoholism, though, Mr Lax's account suggests that Thomas' chaotic vagrancy may have been due to mental illness, which in the mid-1800s would have gone undiagnosed and untreated... "Among his peculiarities was an utter hatred to the colour red, an aversion to looking-glasses, and a dislike to any room where there was a flood of light and strong reflection. He also disliked to see a hole in the wall, and would, if allowed, stuff it with paper, turn the looking-glass around, and cover up any shining ornament which offended his eye. Byron's Mazeppa: Thomas Lough would draw scenes from the poem and sell the illustrations in local pubs. "A friend,who knew the Lough family well, told me that Tom commenced his wandering life as early as the year 1826 or 1827. When the engines for the Messrs. Annandale's paper mills were being laid down, the engineers engaged in the work used to frequent the Bridge End Inn, Shotley Bridge, in the evenings, where Lough often turned up to entertain them with the Jew's harp, and fiddle, and by reciting his own and the poems of other authors, and by airing his drawing talents... His favourite subjects in drawing were The Ninevite Bull - a mythical animal with a human head and five legs - The Flying Ass, Group of 'Bacchanalians', Byron's Mazeppa and a group containing two human figures and several savage-looking horses; the latter of which I have in my possession; it is not only vigorously drawn, but is a wonderful conception, and, with other productions of his, shows how his mind, stored with the literature of Greece and Rome, teemed with imagery. "His favourite authors were Homer, Virgil, Shakespeare, Gibbon, Byron, and Burns; the first of whom he had read earliest and most earnestly, and in consequence his mind received the strongest of its colours from the great Greek. "His performances on the violin were of the most comical character... Placing the fiddle between his knees when in a sitting posture, he used the bow vigorously, and thence flowed strains which, as fame informs us, caused, in a certain inn, in Weardale, I think, panes to fly out of the windows, the pot lid to fly up the chimney, and a child to leap from the cradle of its slumbers, and dance in a most unaccountable manner. It was here, too, I believe, that he drew a fox with a piece of charcoal on the hearthstone, which the terrier dogs with the company attempted to seize, mistaking it for a living reality. Poor Lough used to tell me those absurd stories with a solemnity that could not be exceeded by the gravest Musselman." The death of the Lough brothers' mother Barbara in 1852 may have sealed Thomas' itinerant fate. The year before, he is still holding down his job as a blacksmith and still living in Blanchland with Barbara. When she dies, there is nothing to keep him in Blanchland, no-one to keep him on the straight and narrow. In the 1861 Census, Thomas is found living in a hayloft in Iveston, Lanchester. Seemingly at a loss as to how to categorise him, the census enumerator creates a special section - "List of persons not in houses" - and Thomas Lough is the only one on the list. He's clearly gone down in the world, his occupation recorded as "Blacksmith's Labourer" and afterwards - perhaps at Lough's insistence - "artist" has been added. Although in very different circumstances, the two brothers died within a year of one-another, John Graham a wealthy family man in London having carved a place for himself in history, Thomas a pauper in Lanchester Workhouse in 1877.


--- [John Graham Lough - Wikidata] ---
John Graham Lough (Q6235982) Appearance English sculptor (1798–1876) - J. G. Lough | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | No label defined | || | English | John Graham Lough | English sculptor (1798–1876) | | Statements 1 reference 5 November 2010 23 July 2022 1 reference 26 December 2020 John Graham Lough 0 references John Graham Lough 0 references Identifiers 1 reference 1 reference Sitelinks Wikipedia(1 entry) - enwiki John Graham Lough Wikibooks(0 entries) Wikinews(0 entries) Wikiquote(0 entries) Wikisource(0 entries) Wikiversity(0 entries) Wikivoyage(0 entries) Wiktionary(0 entries) Multilingual sites(1 entry) - commonswiki Category:John Graham Lough


--- [John Graham Lough - Bio, Personal Life, Family & Cause Of Death ...] ---
Birth Name: John Graham Lough Occupation: Sculptor Place Of Birth: England Date Of Birth: January 8, 1798 Date Of Death: April 8, 1876 Cause Of Death: N/A Ethnicity: Unknown Nationality: English John Graham Lough was born on the 8th of January, 1798. He was popular for being a Sculptor. English sculptor known for his funerary monuments and a variety of portraits, such as his statue of Stonewall Jackson in Richmond, Virginia. John Graham Lough was born in England. He spent some time in Rome and was influenced by Neo-classicism. He was a close friend of the surgeon Campbell De Morgan who sat with him while he was dying. John Graham Lough was a Capricorn and was born in the G.I. Generation. JUMP TO: John Graham Lough’s biography, facts, family, personal life, zodiac, videos and related celebs. Childhood John Graham Lough was born in 1790s. John Graham Lough is part of G.I. Generation also known as The Greatest Generation. This generation experienced much of their youth during the Great Depression and rapid technological innovation such as the radio and the telephone. The initials "G.I." is military terminology referring to "Government Issue" or "General Issue". Education John’s education details are not available at this time. Please check back soon for updates. Family John Graham Lough’s mother’s name is unknown at this time and his father’s name is under review. We will continue to update information on John Graham Lough’s parents. Associated with Personal Life Like many famous people and celebrities, John Graham Lough kept his personal life private. Once more details are available, we will update this section. John Graham Lough was born in the Year of the Horse. Fast Facts | REAL NAME: | John Graham Lough | | NICKNAME: | John | | RELIGION: | Unknown | | AGE GENERATION: | G.I. Generation | | BIRTH SIGN: | Capricorn | | BIRTH DAY: | Monday | | DEATH DAY: | Saturday | Videos Horoscope Zodiac Sign: John Graham Lough was a Capricorn. People of this zodiac sign like family, tradition, and dislike almost everything at some point. The strengths of this sign are being responsible, disciplined, good managers, while weaknesses can be to be the know-it-all, unforgiving, condescending and expecting the worst. The greatest overall compatibility with Capricorn is Taurus and Cancer. Chinese Zodiac: John Graham Lough was born in the Year of the Serpent. People born under this sign are seen as warm-hearted and easygoing. Independence is one of their greatest strengths, but sometimes they're overly frank with others. Ruling Planet: John Graham Lough had a ruling planet of Saturn and has a ruling planet of Saturn and by astrological associations Saturday is ruled by Saturn. Saturn is a planet of commitment and responsibility, but also restriction and delay. People who are born with Saturn as the ruling planet are disciplined and are hard workers. John Graham Lough’s birth sign is Capricorn and he had a ruling planet of Saturn. Don’t miss Who’s the richest Sculptor in the world? Who are the richest people in the world? When is John Graham Lough’s birthday? Fans also viewed Fact Check: We strive for accuracy and fairness. If you see something that doesn’t look right, contact us. This page is updated often with fresh details about John Graham Lough. Bookmark this page and come back often for updates.


--- [Category:John Graham Lough - Wikimedia Commons] ---
Category:John Graham Lough Appearance English sculptor (1798–1876) | ||||| | Upload media | ||||| | Date of birth | 8 January 1798 Consett | |||| |---|---|---|---|---|---| | Date of death | 8 April 1876 | |||| | Manner of death | | |||| | Cause of death | ||||| | Place of burial | ||||| | Occupation | ||||| | ||||| Subcategories This category has the following 4 subcategories, out of 4 total. C P Pages in category "John Graham Lough" This category contains only the following page. Media in category "John Graham Lough" The following 7 files are in this category, out of 7 total. - Lit & Phil, Newcastle upon Tyne, June 2015 (04).JPG 4,896 × 3,672; 6.79 MB - Mansion House (15353205875).jpg 3,264 × 2,448; 1.87 MB - Memorial to Thomas Noon Talfourd in Shire Hall Stafford.jpg 793 × 1,511; 134 KB - Newcastle Lit & Phil James Losh Statue DSCN1770.jpg 4,608 × 3,456; 3.75 MB - North-country sketches, notes, essays and reviews (1893) (14764220742).jpg 2,808 × 4,792; 1.49 MB - North-country sketches, notes, essays and reviews (1893) (14764552375).jpg 2,924 × 5,108; 2.26 MB
