=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[TÜBİTAK Science Awards - İTÜ Ödüller]
1991 Prof.Dr.Mutlu SÜMER 1990 Prof.Dr.Fuat PASİN 1989 Prof.Dr.Yavuz NUTKU 1986 Dr.A.M.Celal ŞENGÖR 1985 Prof.Dr.M.Cengiz DÖKMECİ 1984 Prof.Dr.Hilmi DEMİRAY 1983 Prof.Dr.Mehmetçik BAYAZIT
URL: https://oduller.itu.edu.tr/en/honors-and-awards/tubitak-science-awards

[The Life and Career of Professor Doctor Celal Sengor - Barut B'log]
Mar 24, 2023 · During the years in which he has started to serve as an associate professor at ITU, Celal Sengor received the President's Award from the Geological Society of London in 1984 and the Science Award from TUBITAK (the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Türkiye) in 1986.
URL: https://blog.baruthotels.com/en/the-life-and-career-of-professor-doctor-celal-sengor

[Celal Şengör on the path to geology (exclusive interview)]
Feb 17, 2017 — Celal Şengör, a highly respected nature lover and historian who became the youngest recipient of a science award in Türkiye, and whose love ...
URL: https://indigodergisi.com/en/2017/02/celal-sengor-jeolojiye-dogru/

[TÜBİTAK Bilim Ödülü - Vikipedi]
1986 yılında jeoloji alanındaki ödül Celal Şengör 'e verildi. 1988 yılında biyoloji alanındaki ödül Turhan Baytop 'a verildi 1991 yılında fizik alanındaki ödül Hakkı Boran Ögelman 'a verildi 1992 yılında matematik alanındaki ödül Selman Akbulut 'a verildi 1995 yılında biyoloji alanındaki ödül Aziz Sancar 'a verildi.
URL: https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/T%C3%9CB%C4%B0TAK_Bilim_%C3%96d%C3%BCl%C3%BC

[Prof. Dr. Celal Şengör'e yeni madalya - egitimtercihi.com]
Jul 14, 2020 · Prof. Dr. Celal Şengör, 1984 yılında Londra Jeoloji Cemiyeti'nin Başkanlık Ödülü'nü, 1986'da TÜBİTAK Bilim Ödülü'nü kazandı. 1988'de Neuchâtel Üniversitesi Fen Fakültesi'nden şeref bilim doktoru unvanına sahip olan Şengör, 1990 yılında Academia Europaea'ya kabul edildi.
URL: https://www.egitimtercihi.com/gundem/21063-prof-dr-celal-sengoer-e-yeni-madalya.html?tmpl=component


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [TÜBİTAK Science Awards - İTÜ Ödüller] ---
Türkçe Honors and Awards / TÜBİTAK Science Awards 2019 Prof. Dr. Ahmet GÜL 2018 Prof.Dr.Cengiz KAHRAMAN 2005 Prof.Dr.Oğuz OKAY 2002 Prof.Dr.Ayşe ERDEM ŞENATALAR 2002 Prof.Dr.Aral OKAY 2000 Prof.Dr.Özer BEKAROĞLU 1999 Prof.Dr.Yücel YILMAZ 1998 Prof.Dr.Önder PEKCAN 1998 Prof.Dr.Derin ORHON 1997 Prof.Dr.Ayşe ERZAN 1994 Prof.Dr.Yusuf YAĞCI 1993 Prof.Dr.Zekai ŞEN 1991 Prof.Dr.Mutlu SÜMER 1990 Prof.Dr.Fuat PASİN 1989 Prof.Dr.Yavuz NUTKU 1986 Dr.A.M.Celal ŞENGÖR 1985 Prof.Dr.M.Cengiz DÖKMECİ 1984 Prof.Dr.Hilmi DEMİRAY 1983 Prof.Dr.Mehmetçik BAYAZIT 1983 Prof.Dr.Mithat İDEMEN 1982 Prof.Dr.A.Nejat İNCE 1982 Prof.Dr.Yılmaz TOKAD 1981 Prof.Dr.İhsan KETİN 1976 Prof. Dr. Erdoğan ŞUHUBİ 1976 Prof.Dr.Kazım ÇEÇEN 1969 Prof.Dr.Adnan ÇAKIROĞLU 1968 Prof.Dr.Bahattin BAYSAL 1966 Prof.Dr.Talat ERBEN


--- [The Life and Career of Professor Doctor Celal Sengor - Barut B'log] ---
Having drawn attention with his foresights and statements with respect to earthquake-related topics and come to the fore once again with his ideas following the earthquake disaster suffered recently in Kahramanmaras, Professor Doctor Celal Sengor is now in the spotlight of Türkiye with the alerts he has been announcing with respect to earthquake. Celal Sengor, the well-recognized geologist appeared in a great number of tv programs following the earthquake and thus his life and professional career started to attract notice. Meanwhile, you can find detailed information about the life of Professor Ilber Ortayli, one of the key figures in the spotlight, in our article, Who is Ilber Ortayli, the Turkish Historian?. Now, let's see in more detail who is Professor Doctor Celal Sengor who has stated warnings days before also for the earthquake occurred in Samandag, Hatay. The Life of Celal Sengor With its full name as Ali Mehmet Celal Sengor, the well-recognized geologist was born on March 24, 1955 in Istanbul. Sengor, who is originally a Rumelian immigrant, is the son of Gunseli Guler and Asim Sengor. Having started his elementary education in Sisli Terakki and continued at the Bayezid Elementary School, Professor Celal Sengor completed his secondary school education at İsik High School and his upper secondary education at Robert College. Having been to the United States of America for higher education and enrolled in the Houston University, Sengor has afterwards transferred to the department of Geology at the New York State University graduated from the said university. Having done a master degree and a doctoral degree at the same university, Celal Sengor started to serve as an assistant at the department of Geology at the Faculty of Mines at Istanbul Technical University in 1981. During the years in which he has started to serve as an associate professor at ITU, Celal Sengor received the President's Award from the Geological Society of London in 1984 and the Science Award from TUBITAK (the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Türkiye) in 1986. He was admitted to Academia Europaea in 1990, and thus made his mark as being the first Turkish member of the society. In the sequel, having become a correspondent member of the Austrian Geological Service, Professor Doctor Celal Sengor became a honorary member of the Austrian Geological Society one year later, and became entitled to receive the Information Age award granted by the Ministry of Culture. Having continued to advance in his professional career, Celal Sengor made his mark as a Professor at the department of General Geology at the Faculty of Mines at Istanbul Technical University in 1992. The well-recognized scientist also stood out as the youngest founder member at the Turkish Academy of Sciences. After a couple of years, Celal Sengor became a member of the Russian Natural Sciences Academy and a honorary member of the French and American geological societies and received the Rammal Medal and also the Lutaud Prize granted by the French Academy of Sciences. Having lectured as a visiting professor within the organization of the institute, called College France, for some time, Sengor has been welcomed as a visiting professor at numerous schools and institutes throughout his academic life. With the great reputation he has gained in his own field as based on the studies he has conducted with respect to geology, Celal Sengor also wrote many books. Having published 6 books, 137 papers, 175 scientific articles and approximately 300 essays, Celal Sengor has thus materialized the fund of knowledge he has derived during his professional career. Acting as an assistant editor and also an editor for the publishing of numerous periodicals and publications, the well-recognized scientist has an excellent command of English, French and German, in addition to all such attributes. Who is the Writer that has Inspired Celal Sengor? Celal Sengor replies the questions related to the fact that how and when his interest in Geology has started, by saying Jules Verne, the famous author. Expressing that he has started to like geology at his young ages when he read the Journey to the Center of the Earth, a book by Jules Verne, and also that he has leveraged such fancy with the Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea, another book by the same author, Celal Sengor says that he thinks that growing into a man is to become someone as depicted by Jules Verne, and also that it was once again Jules Verne who made him to like geology. Having said during an interview that he has more than 30 thousand books at his personal library, Celal Sengor thus points out the positive impact of the books on the life and personality of a human. Married with Oya Maltepe, a writer, in 1986, Celal Sengor has a son whose name is Asim Sengor.


--- [Celal Şengör on the path to geology (exclusive interview)] ---
Celal Şengör, a highly respected nature lover and historian who became the youngest recipient of a science award in Türkiye, and whose love for geology began in his middle school years with admiration for the profound knowledge of his teacher Nuriye Güneyiye, and who proudly dedicated his book to her, saying, "To my dear teacher Nuriye Güneyiye, who taught me that the only way to love nature is to come to terms with it," was a guest in this month's issue of Indigo Magazine. Report: Celal Sengor You say that as a scientist you contemplate the sky; what do you mean by that? Celal Şengör: Of course, what I mean is; I look and I say, how did this vast universe come into being? Every single point has its own story. I said this partly inspired by this: have you ever heard of Immanuel Kant? The famous German idealist philosopher was born, grew up, and lived at the end of the 18th and beginning of the 19th centuries. At the end of his book, "Critique of Practical Reason," Immanuel Kant says: "Two things in this world fill me with wonder and respect. One is the magnificent starry realm I see above, and the other is the moral rules I see within it. These fill me with admiration and great respect for this world…" I said this partly based on this; I was swimming in a pool, and Sefa was sitting by the edge. "What are you doing?" she asked. I replied, "I'm contemplating the sky"; it was night, and there were magnificent stars in Assos, and silence… When I say "I contemplate the sky," I'm thinking about how this vast universe was formed, how it developed, how it evolved. Why am I human? I am human because I am curious… "We became rich overnight thanks to Atatürk." You said you became rich overnight thanks to Atatürk; we'd like to hear the story from you. How did it happen? Celal Şengör: A meeting was held during the establishment of sugar factories, with Atatürk, Hayri İpar, and Kâzım Taşkent. Kâzım Taşkent was my grandmother's cousin, and Hayri İpar was a famous sugar magnate. Atatürk said that while the sugar factories were being established, "Machinery will be transported from Germany, and to be able to transport it, a German company will do this, and Turkey will need to pay for it." But there's no one in Türkiye who can do the equivalent. So we'll give someone credit, set up a company for them, and make them rich. This person needs to be someone who won't betray the Republic by taking the credit from us. Then Kazım Ağabey suggested my late grandfather, whom Atatürk had only met once in his life, because my grandfather was in the air force during World War I, but as a private. After the First World War ended, in 1921, while Istanbul was under occupation, my grandfather founded a company. With two gold coins borrowed from his sister and a gold chain from his brother-in-law, he bought a donkey and transported goods in Istanbul. However, he heard that weapons were being smuggled into Anatolia, and he immediately volunteered to join them. He spoke good Greek, of course, being from Ioannina, and he became quite well-known there. After the War of Independence was won, a group of them were taken to Ankara. As they lined up, Atatürk came and shook hands with all of them. Atatürk: "You are from Rumelia, just like me." As he shook hands with everyone, they all stated their names and hometowns. When it was my grandfather's turn, he said, "Mehmet Nuri, Yanya, Pasha." At that moment, Atatürk looked at my grandfather, stroked his cheek, and simply said, "You are from Rumelia, just like me," and that was it. When my older brother Kazım recounted what my grandfather had done, Atatürk asked Kazım, "Yes, there was a blond-haired boy, was that him?" My grandfather used to say, "When Kazım told me this, I couldn't believe it. Because Atatürk only saw me for a few seconds, until he said 'Mehmet Nuri, Yanya, Pasha,' and then he stroked my cheek and said, 'You are from Rumelia, just like me,' that's all." But he remembered, and said, "There was a blond-haired boy, alright, give him away." So, my grandfather became rich overnight. The company he founded was enormous… He was a hardworking man, God rest his soul, he developed the company. He bought a mansion in Yeşilköy and immediately gifted it to the Republican People's Party. He bought another mansion and gifted it to the People's Houses. Then he bought all of Yeşilyurt and had it parceled out for the Republican People's Party. He had a cooperative built. Finally, my grandmother got angry, saying, "You're distributing your family's livelihood to this and that. Why are we giving our money to the state?" My grandfather replied, "Look, it's not like that. Atatürk didn't give me this money to sit on; this is the nation's money." Atatürk must have seen this in my grandfather at a glance. "Atatürk's influence over these men was incredible." I saw this in my teacher, İhsan Ketin, too. He would often say, "I owe so much to Atatürk." Because Atatürk sent them abroad to study. For example, I don't know if you've ever heard of Ekrem Kurgal, he was a tremendous man; I heard the same thing from him. He also always said, "We owe so much to Atatürk." You could discuss anything with these people. My grandfather was a Muslim, my grandmother and father were too, but saying "I'm irreligious" wasn't a crime at home. You could sit down and discuss it. However, two people were untouchable; it was forbidden to discuss them. They were Atatürk and İnönü; if you touched them, there would be trouble at home. Member of the American Academy of Sciences You are also a member of the American Academy of Sciences. What does that mean to you? Celal Şengör: Being elected to these academies means achieving a certain level of prestige in the scientific community. Because these are very small groups. Imagine, there's a vast scientific community in the world, and out of thousands and thousands of names, science selects fifteen or twenty people every year. I am one of them, and I was the first from Türkiye. Imagine, I am the first person in Türkiye's history to be elected to the American Academy of Sciences. Besides being a member of the Academy of Sciences, I am also a member of the Academia Europaea, the European Academy of Sciences, the German Academy of Sciences, the Austrian Academy of Sciences, the Leibniz Scientific Society (formerly the Prussian Academy of Sciences), and the Russian Academy of Sciences. I am also the youngest recipient of a science award from TÜBİTAK in Türkiye. This was published in Hürriyet Newspaper in 2001. Now, at eight in the morning, my driver Cevdet is a witness, we were going to the Technical University. On the bridge, the phone in our Mercedes rang, of course, there were no cell phones back then. When the phone rang, you could see that it was the Air Force calling. Look, it's eight o'clock, I answered the phone. The Air Force's civilian employee said, "Sir, our esteemed commander will speak with you." The phone was connected to Air Force Commander General Ergin Celasin. The commander's first words weren't "hello" or anything like that; as soon as he answered, he said, "This is what patriotism looks like. Congratulations, I read in the newspaper today that you've been elected to the American Academy of Sciences." Look, my rector and everyone else knew, but the first one to call was the Air Force commander. Most of the congratulations came from the military, especially from the Air Force, who know me well. So why do you think that is? Celal Şengör: Because these soldiers are dedicated and value things. Bring us a sergeant major, and he would be a much better rector than most of our current university rectors. These are very high-quality individuals. Hitler Professor, your love for physics started at a young age. You were always doing experiments, but you were also in love with Hitler. What kind of emotional connection did you establish between the two? Was there a common point between them? It's quite simple: both are solutions to a problem. I considered Hitler's National Socialist ideas as solutions to social problems. I also considered physics as solutions to natural problems. Therefore, both seemed quite logical to me. My knowledge at the time was very limited. Hitler says we should do what Darwin said, but I couldn't grasp this at the time: Hitler doesn't fully understand this. If he did, he would see that what he's saying is nonsense, so Darwin isn't to blame here. So, did you love Hitler very much? What did you admire about him? Celal Şengör: What I admired most about him was his sincerity; this man dedicated his entire being to his nation, in every way… Secondly, he took Germany from the brink of ruin and transformed it into an incredible power. It's not an easy task… He's a true leader and a man who knows where and what to invest in. For example, he says to Goebbels, "When we came to power, we promised our workers that we would make things easier for them, we would do this and that, but I see that our workers can't go to the opera, they can't go to concerts because they're too expensive… so if the workers can't afford it, then the opera and concerts will come to them." There are films about the great conductor Wilhelm Furtwängler. In his hangars and warehouses, workers' families come to give concerts. The Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra performs there. Amazing… The Volkswagen car, for example, is Hitler's invention. The design of the Beetles is directly Hitler's. There are hand-drawn sketches of Hitler on the internet. So I admired these aspects of him, but on the other hand, he has terrible, inhumane ideas. At the time, for example, I hadn't learned about those at all… Robert College years Let's go back to your middle school years then… What were your Robert College years like? Celal Şengör: Middle school wasn't Robert College, it was Işık High School. I transferred to Robert College for high school because Robert College didn't have a middle school. They used to have one, then they removed it, and then they added it back to the curriculum. In my time, Robert didn't have a middle school, so I went to Işık High School. I think Işık High School was more important to me than Robert College. For one thing, it was a better school. Robert College isn't very good now; the quality of teachers has declined. Education in America is a disaster, yet people are so eager to send their children there, I don't understand why. I sent my son to Switzerland. Işık High School years and Nuriye Güney Tell us about your years at Işık High School then… Celal Şengör: Boarding school was very beneficial; it separated me from my family… First, I learned to stand on my own in the Air Force, which happened around the same time. And I was a boarder in the winter, so I was on my own… Işık High School had a very good library. I got a high grade in my first year, and those who got high grades weren't required to attend extra study sessions. So I would go to the library and read; I read all of Jules Verne's books there. Nuriye Güney was the first person to tell me that geology could be a profession. She holds a very special place in my life. She was a natural science teacher. She taught biology and geology in high school. At Işık High School, Turkish classes were in the mornings, and the afternoons were entirely English. Nuriye Hanım would come in the mornings, teach her classes, and then go to Istanbul University, where she also taught and conducted research. For example, she was one of Türkiye's leading experts on butterflies. I have many of Nuriye Hanım's publications, which I keep. She was from Odessa, do you know where Odessa is? In Ukraine. They came here in 1932 when the USSR invaded Ukraine. Nuriye Hanım studied at Istanbul Girls' High School. After that, she entered Istanbul University's geology department. More than half of the professors at Istanbul University were German. She was a student of very high-quality people. Nuriye Hanım would teach a class, and we could see that she enjoyed teaching; it had a tremendous impact on people. Nuriye Hanım was the first one to tell me to become a geologist, and I did. There was also Yusuf Ziya Efe at Işık High School, a mathematics teacher. Ziya Bey later went to America and became an electronics professor. He taught me mathematics in middle school. He became an electrical engineering professor in New Jersey. These two teachers were very special… I later wrote a book about evolution and dedicated it to Nuriye Hanım, and she was very pleased. In the dedication, I said, "To my teacher Nuriye Güneyi, who taught me that the only way to love nature is to come to terms with it." Goethe Institute Professor, you also stayed at the Goethe Institute. What benefits did that bring you? Celal Şengör: I lived in two places, Munich and Berlin. First of all, I learned about German culture; things I couldn't have learned from my German nanny Elizabeth when I was five. For example, do you like Carmina Burana? Carmina Burana is a series of medieval songs composed by Carl Orff in 1935. The lyrics date from the Middle Ages and were found in the Benedictine Monastery. I was in a room where the lyrics of these songs were kept, a room called "Vier Jahreszeiten" (Four Years) in the Benedictine Monastery. For example, I visited the Ludwig palaces in Southern Germany, and while doing so, you learn about the history of Bavaria. I traveled through the Alps, and that's where I first encountered the geology of the Alps. I became a member of the Munich caving club. Then, my professors at the Goethe Institute were very cultured people. There was a woman there, for example, from whom I first learned about flamenco. I had never heard of it in Türkiye. Imagine, I learned about flamenco from this woman. As a scientist who received a science award at a very young age, do you think its value is sufficiently understood in our country? Celal Şengör: No, the reason I received it at such a young age was because of Cengiz Dökmeci, Kemal Kafalı, and İhsan Ketin, that's all. These three men said, "Let's give Celal a science award," and we accepted. I don't care about the rest… Geology Professor, what percentage of a geologist's life is spent in the field? Celal Şengör: It depends on the geologist, of course, if there are those who only do theoretical work and modeling, then it's zero... Then there are those who spend their whole lives running around in the field. For example, let me tell you, there was a very famous Swiss geologist named Jovan Stöcklin, he was sent to Nepal under the United Nations Development Programs. We also went to Kathmandu. When we arrived, Stöcklin's work was finished, he had left. We looked at Stöcklin's records: He stayed in Nepal for two years, spending over four hundred days in the field. So, is what we call a geological map different from the maps we are familiar with? Celal Şengör: It shows the distribution of rocks in a terrain. Making a geological map is very difficult. What was the first geological map made by the Turks? Celal Şengör: The first geological map made by the Turks was authored by many, with contributions from foreigners as well. A map of Ankara was made to study the movement of waters in and around Ankara, probably in 1927. It was partly created by a German, a Frenchman, and several Turks working together. "To think in a civilized way is to think scientifically." Professor, what does civilized thinking mean to you? Celal Şengör: Thinking in a civilized way means thinking scientifically. And scientific thinking is this: Can you verify the relationship between what you say or think and reality? Can you establish that relationship with reality? That's it... Finally, what would you like to say to the readers of Indigo Magazine? Celal Şengör: Read, and if necessary, don't even believe what you read; think about it… Weigh what you read, consider why you are reading it… Think about whether you can contribute something to what you read… We sincerely thank our dear Professor Celal Şengör for this valuable interview…


--- [TÜBİTAK Bilim Ödülü - Vikipedi] ---
TÜBİTAK Bilim Ödülü, 1966'dan beri her yıl, Türkiye Bilimsel ve Teknolojik Araştırma Kurumu (TÜBİTAK) tarafından temel bilimler, mühendislik bilimleri, sağlık bilimleri ve sosyal bilimler dallarında uluslararası düzeyde üstün nitelikli çalışmalar gösteren Türk ya da çalışmalarını Türkiye'de yapan yabancı bilim insanlarına verilen ödüldür. Türkiye'de bilim dalında verilen en üst düzey ödül olarak kabul edilir. "Türk Nobelleri" olarak da adlandırılır.
Ödül kazananları, geçmişte TÜBİTAK Ödüllerinden herhangi birini almış olanlar, Türkiye Bilimler Akademisi Konseyi, üniversitelerin senatoları, bilimsel ve teknolojik alanlarda faaliyet gösteren kurum ve kuruluşların en üst düzey karar alma organları, TÜBİTAK Ar-Ge ve Ar-Ge Kolaylık Birimleri Yönetim Kurulları ile TÜBİTAK Araştırma Grupları Yürütme Kurulları'nın kendi alanlarında göstereceği adaylar arasından seçilir. Aday başvurularının değerlendirilmesi, TÜBİTAK Yönetim Kurulu tarafından seçilmiş tercihen TÜBİTAK Bilim Ödülü almış an az yedi kişilik bir komisyon tarafından yapılır. Bu komisyon, yapılan başvuruları değerlendirdikten sonra sonuçları TÜBİTAK Yönetim Kurulu'na bildirir. TÜBİTAK Yönetim Kurulu'nun yaptığı değerlendirmenin ardından ödüllerin kazananları belirlenir. Kazananlara ilişkin duyurular TÜBİTAK'ın kuruluş yıldönümü olan 24 Temmuz tarihinde yapılır. Ödüller her yıl düzenlenen törenle sahiplerine verilir.
Her bir ödül kazananı; ödül beratı, altın plaket, yıllara göre değişkenlik gösteren para ödülü ve araştırma desteğinin de sahibi olmaktadır. 1967 yılında Cavid Erginsoy, Turan Onat, Bekir Dizioğlu'nun aldığı 10.000 TL'lik para ödülü; 2002 yılında 3.000.000.000 TL'ye, 2007 yılında 25.000 YTL'ye, 2012 yılında 50.000 TL'ye, 2018 yılında ise 75.000 TL'ye çıkarılmıştır. 2020 yılı itibarıyla para ödülü 75.000 TL, araştırma desteği ise 50.000 TL olarak belirlenmiştir. Para ödülü ve araştırma desteğinin yanında verilen altın plaketin tasarımı 2012 yılında değiştirilerek üzerinde altın TÜBİTAK logosunun, altında ise ödül alan kişinin isminin ve ödül türünün geçtiği kanatlı tasarıma geçilmiştir. 2014 yılında ise plaketin altına kaide eklenmiştir.
50 yılı aşkın tarihinde ilk ödül 1966 yılında kimya alanındaki çalışmaları nedeniyle Talat Erben ve Oktay Sinanoğlu'na verilirken 1975 yılında biyoloji alanındaki ödülü paylaşan Gönül Bara ve Semahat Geldiay ise ödülü alan ilk kadın bilim insanları olmuştur. Bir yıl içerisinde en fazla sekiz bilim insanına verilebilir. 2019 yılında bir defaya mahsus olarak verilen ve TÜBİTAK Bilim Ödülü'nün eşdeğeri olan Prof. Dr. Fuat Sezgin Bilim Tarihi Ödülü de dahil olmak üzere 2020 itibarıyla toplam 180 kişiye verilmiştir. En fazla verildiği alan 49 ödül ile mühendislik bilimleri olmuştur. Mühendislik bilimlerini 43 ödül ile sağlık bilimleri, 27 ödül ile fizik ve 23 ödül ile kimya takip etmektedir. 2007 yılında ödül kapsamına alınıp 2008 yılında verilmeye başlanan sosyal bilimler alanındaki ödüllerden ise toplamda 7 adet verilmiştir.


--- [Prof. Dr. Celal Şengör'e yeni madalya - egitimtercihi.com] ---
İstanbul Teknik Üniversitesi Avrasya Yer Bilimleri Enstitüsü Öğretim Üyesi Prof. Dr. Celal Şengör, Avusturya Jeoloji Derneği tarafından verilen ve Avusturya’nın jeoleoji alanında en yüksek ödülü olarak kabul edilen “Eduard-Suess Madalyası”na layık görüldü. Avusturya Jeoloji Derneği Başkan Yardımcısı Prof. Bernhard Grasemann tarafından gönderilen bir elektronik postayla durumdan haberdar olduğunu belirten Prof. Dr. Şengör, madalyayla ilgili şu ifadeleri kullandı: “Bu başarıyı elde etmemde Rektörümüz Prof. Dr. Mehmet Karaca başta olmak üzere, tüm İTÜ camiasının bana verdiği desteğin değeri çok büyüktür. Dünyanın başka hiçbir kurumunda İTÜ’de olduğum kadar mutlu ve verimli olamazdım.” Prof. Dr. Celal Şengör’e Eduard Suess Madalyası’nın 2021 yılı bahar aylarında takdim edilmesi planlanıyor. Hayatı Başarılarla Dolu Prof. Dr. Celal Şengör, 1984 yılında Londra Jeoloji Cemiyeti'nin Başkanlık Ödülü'nü, 1986'da TÜBİTAK Bilim Ödülü'nü kazandı. 1988'de Neuchâtel Üniversitesi Fen Fakültesi'nden şeref bilim doktoru unvanına sahip olan Şengör, 1990 yılında Academia Europaea'ya kabul edildi. Şengör, aynı yıl Avusturya Jeoloji Servisi muhabir üyesi, 1991 yılında ise Avusturya Jeoloji Derneği şeref üyesi oldu. 1991 yılında Kültür Bakanlığı'nın Bilgi Çağı Ödülünü kazandı. Şengör, 1993 yılında Türkiye Bilimler Akademisi kurucu üyeliğine, Akademi konseyine ve TÜBİTAK Bilim Kurulu üyeliğine seçildi. Bir sonraki yıl, Rusya Doğa Bilimleri Akademisi üyeliği ile Fransız ve Amerikan Jeoloji Dernekleri onur üyeliklerine seçilen Şengör’e, ayrıca Fransız Fizik Cemiyeti ve École Normale Supérieure Vakfı tarafından Rammal Madalyası verildi. Şengör, 1997 yılında Fransız Bilimler Akademisi tarafından yerbilimleri dalında büyük ödül (Lutaud Ödülü) ile taltif edildi. 1999’da Londra Jeoloji Cemiyeti kendisine Bigsby Madalyası verdi. European Geosciences Union (EGU) Artur Holmes Madalyası’nı 2018 yılında alan Şengör, aynı zamanda EGU Onur Üyeliğini alan ilk Türk akademisyen olarak tarihe geçti. Bu yıl, Amerika Birleşik Devletleri ve Hollanda'dan araştırmacıların yer aldığı bir ekip, bilimsel makale sayısı, atıf sayısı, yazar sırası gibi değişkenlerden oluşan “kompozit indikatör” bilimsel etki endeksini kullanarak 22 anabilim dalı ve 176 alt bilim dalında en etkili bilim insanları listesi hazırladı. Yer ve çevre bilimleri dalında Prof. Dr. Celal Şengör dünyanın en etkili bilim insanları listesine Türkiye’den giren isimlerin arasında yer aldı. YASAL UYARI: Yayınlanan köşe yazısı ve haberlerin tüm hakları ESM Yayıncılığa aittir. Kaynak gösterilse dahi köşe yazısı/haberin tamamı özel izin alınmadan kullanılamaz.
