=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Oliviero Diliberto - Wikipedia]
A former member of the Italian Communist Party, Diliberto joined the Communist Refoundation Party after the breakup of his former party. First elected as MP in 1994 for the Communist Refoundation Party, Diliberto left his party in 1998 in contrast with the leadership's line about a motion of no confidence in which Romano Prodi was defeated. So Diliberto, together with Armando Cossutta and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oliviero_Diliberto

[Oliviero Diliberto - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Sep 22, 2024 · First elected as MP in 1994 for the Communist Refoundation Party, Diliberto left his party in 1998 in contrast with the leadership's line about a motion of no confidence in which Romano Prodi was defeated. So Diliberto, together with Armando Cossutta and others, founded the Party of Italian Communists, of which he became the secretary.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Oliviero-Diliberto

[Oliviero Diliberto - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias]
First elected as MP in 1994 for the Communist Refoundation Party, Diliberto left his party in 1998 in contrast with the leadership's line about a motion of no confidence in which Romano Prodi was defeated. So Diliberto, together with Armando Cossutta and others, founded the Party of Italian Communists, of which he became the secretary.
URL: https://en-academic.com/dic.nsf/enwiki/2106826

[Communist Refoundation Party - Wikipedia]
Leader in the Chamber of Deputies: Lucio Magri (1992–1994), Famiano Crucianelli (1994–1995), Oliviero Diliberto (1995–1998), Franco Giordano (1998–2006), Gennaro Migliore (2006–2008)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist_Refoundation_Party

[Oliviero Diliberto (born October 13, 1956), Italian educator, federal ...]
Deputy, group leader Rifondazione Comunista Parliament, 1994-1996. Deputy Progressisti Parliament, 1996-1998. Member Transport, Postal and Telecommunications Services Commission, Party of Italian Communists, 1998. Minister of justice D'Alema's government, 1998-2000. General secretary Party of Italian Communists, since 2000.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/oliviero.diliberto/154051


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Oliviero Diliberto - Wikipedia] ---
Oliviero Diliberto (born 13 October 1956 in Cagliari) is an Italian politician. He has been leader of the Party of Italian Communists.




--- [Oliviero Diliberto - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Oliviero Diliberto | Nationality Italian | | Spouse Gabriella Serrenti (m. 1997) Similar People Antonio Gramsci, Sergio Garavini, Lucio Libertini | Opposition reax to Prodi's vote of confidence by lower house Oliviero Diliberto (born 13 October 1956 in Cagliari) is an Italian politician. He is the current leader of the Party of Italian Communists. Contents - Opposition reax to Prodis vote of confidence by lower house - Vii congresso del pdci relazione del segretario oliviero diliberto - Early life - Political career - Family - References Vii congresso del pdci relazione del segretario oliviero diliberto Early life Oliviero Diliberto was born in a family of public servants (his father Marco was employed as attorney in the Administration of the Region of Sardinia, his mother Lella was a teacher). His youth is scarred by the untimely death of his father in 1971, after which he had to be a fatherly role for his younger siblings: his sister Ludovica, then eight years old, and his brother Alessio, who was born just two months before. Diliberto becomes involved with politics in 1969 at age 13, when he was in high school. It is a time of turmoil in Italian schools, and young Oliviero quickly rises through the ranks of the student movement during his University studies. He eventually becomes Secretary of the FGCI (Federation of Young Italian Communists, the youth organisation of the PCI) for the province of Cagliari in 1978, the same year of his graduation. Fascinated by the philosophic thought of Michel Foucault, after graduating from high school he traveled for Paris where, to support himself, he briefly worked at the city morgue, preparing corpses that had to undergo autopsy. From 1978 to 1986 he earns scholarships to further his law studies in Frankfurt and in Rome, then he works as researcher in the University of Cagliari, where later he will reach the post of Professor of Roman Law. Political career A former member of the Italian Communist Party, Diliberto joined the Communist Refoundation Party after the breakup of his former party. First elected as MP in 1994 for the Communist Refoundation Party, Diliberto left his party in 1998 in contrast with the leadership's line about a motion of no confidence in which Romano Prodi was defeated. So Diliberto, together with Armando Cossutta and others, founded the Party of Italian Communists, of which he became the secretary. Diliberto then served as Minister of Justice in the first government of Massimo D'Alema, becoming one of the only two party members which were part of that government. He maintained the position until 2000, leaving voluntarily in the reshuffle, in order to concentrate on the party. On taking office as Minister of Justice, he declared to the press his pride in being "The second Communist appointed as Minister of Justice after Palmiro Togliatti", and made a point of having the same desk previously used by the postwar Communist leader restored and placed in his office at the Ministry. On November 2004 he was widely criticized for meeting with the leader of Hizbollah, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, during a visit to Lebanon. This prompted a protest note to the Italian Government from the Israeli Ambassador in Rome. Before the April 2006 general election held in Italy (and won by the centre-left coalition), he declared he would not serve as minister in case of a centre-left win, and instead he would maintain his place as party leader, and so he has. In May 2006 he was elected to the City Council of Rome. He is currently professor of Roman Law at the Faculty of Law of the "La Sapienza" University of Rome. Before the April 2008 snap general election (caused by the fall of the Prodi II Cabinet), Diliberto refused candidacy to the Camera dei Deputati in the Torino constituency for the left-wing alliance The Left – The Rainbow, which his party was participating to, on grounds of giving a chance to be elected to a junior party fellow - a steel worker in the local Thyssen-Krupp steelworks, where a fire on 6 December 2007 had killed seven colleagues. After the disastrous results of both the 2008 general elections and of the 2009 European election, where the Italian left-wing parties failed to reach the minimum threshold, Diliberto has been confirmed as party secretary, with a mandate to pursue unity of the left wing parties. Family Oliviero Diliberto has been married twice: in 1985 he married Ms. Delia Cardia, from which he separated after some years. He is currently married (since 1997) to Ms. Gabriella Serrenti with whom he met in 1978 at the University where he was assistant lecturer.


--- [Oliviero Diliberto - Academic Dictionaries and Encyclopedias] ---
- Oliviero Diliberto - Onorevole Oliviero DilibertoMinister of Justice In office 21 October 1998 – 25 April 2000Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema Preceded by Giovanni Maria Flick Succeeded by Piero Fassino Personal details Born 13 October 1956 Cagliari, ItalyNationality Italian Political party Party of Italian Communists Religion Atheist [1] Oliviero Diliberto (born 13 October 1956 in Cagliari) is an Italian politician.[2] He is the current leader of the Party of Italian Communists. Contents Early life Oliviero Diliberto was born in a family of public servants (his father Marco was employed as attorney in the Administration of the Region of Sardinia, his mother Lella was a teacher). His youth is scarred by the untimely death of his father in 1971, after which he had to be a fatherly role for his younger siblings: his sister Ludovica, then eight years old, and his brother Alessio, who was born just two months before. Diliberto becomes involved with politics in 1969 at age 13, when he was in high school. It is a time of turmoil in Italian schools, and young Oliviero quickly rises through the ranks of the student movement during his University studies. He eventually becomes Secretary of the FGCI (Federation of Young Italian Communists, the youth organisation of the PCI) for the province of Cagliari in 1978, the same year of his graduation. Fascinated by the philosophic thought of Michel Foucault, after graduating from high school he traveled for Paris where, to support himself, he briefly worked at the city morgue, preparing corpses that had to undergo autopsy. From 1978 to 1986 he earns scholarships to further his law studies in Frankfurt and in Rome, then he works as researcher in the University of Cagliari, where later he will reach the post of Professor of Roman Law. Political career A former member of the Italian Communist Party, Diliberto joined the Communist Refoundation Party after the breakup of his former party. First elected as MP in 1994 for the Communist Refoundation Party, Diliberto left his party in 1998 in contrast with the leadership's line about a motion of no confidence in which Romano Prodi was defeated. So Diliberto, together with Armando Cossutta and others, founded the Party of Italian Communists, of which he became the secretary. Diliberto then served as Minister of Justice in the first government of Massimo D'Alema, becoming one of the only two party members which were part of that government. He maintained the position until 2000, leaving voluntarily in the reshuffle, in order to concentrate on the party. On taking office as Minister of Justice, he declared to the press his pride in being "The second Communist appointed as Minister of Justice after Palmiro Togliatti", and made a point of having the same desk previously used by the postwar Communist leader restored and placed in his office at the Ministry. On November 2004 he was widely criticized for meeting with the leader of Hizbollah, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, during a visit to Lebanon. This prompted a protest note to the Italian Government from the Israeli Ambassador in Rome. Before the April 2006 general election held in Italy (and won by the centre-left coalition), he declared he would not serve as minister in case of a centre-left win, and instead he would maintain his place as party leader, and so he has. In May 2006 he was elected to the City Council of Rome. He is currently professor of Roman Law at the Faculty of Law of the "La Sapienza" University of Rome. Before the April 2008 snap general election (caused by the fall of the Prodi II Cabinet), Diliberto refused candidacy to the Camera dei Deputati in the Torino costituency for the The Left – The Rainbow left-wing alliance, which his party was participating to, on grounds of giving a chance to be elected to a junior party fellow - a steel worker in the local Thyssen-Krupp steelworks, where a fire on 6 December 2007 had killed seven colleagues. After the disastrous results of both the 2008 general elections and of the 2009 European election, where the Italian left-wing parties failed to reach the minimum threshold, Diliberto has been confirmed as party secretary, with a mandate to pursue unity of the left wing parties. Family Oliviero Diliberto has been married twice: in 1985 he married Ms. Delia Cardia, from which he separated after some years. He is currently married (since 1997) to Ms. Gabriella Serrenti with whom he met in 1978 at the University where he was assistant lecturer. References - ^ http://www.uaar.it/ateismo/famosi-non-credenti - ^ Dunphy, Richard (2004). Contesting capitalism?: left parties and European integration. Manchester University Press. pp. 90–. ISBN 9780719068041. http://books.google.com/books?id=8ILv-HBTlf8C&pg=PA90. Retrieved 17 May 2011. Political offices Preceded by Giovanni Maria FlickItalian Minister of Justice 1998-2000Succeeded by Piero FassinoAssembly seats Preceded by Title jointly heldMember of the Italian Chamber of Deputies Legislatures XII, XIII, XIV, XV 1994 - presentIncumbent Party political offices Preceded by Armando CossuttaSecretary of the Party of Italian Communists 2000 - presentIncumbent References Categories:- 1956 births - Living people - People from Cagliari - Italian Communist Party politicians - Communist Refoundation Party politicians - Government ministers of Italy - Party of Italian Communists politicians Wikimedia Foundation. 2010.


--- [Communist Refoundation Party - Wikipedia] ---
The Communist Refoundation Party (Italian: Partito della Rifondazione Comunista, abbr. PRC) is a communist political party in Italy that emerged from a split of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) in 1991. The party's secretary is Maurizio Acerbo, who replaced Paolo Ferrero in 2017. Armando Cossutta was the party's founder, while Fausto Bertinotti its longest-serving leader (1994–2008). The latter transformed the PRC from a traditional communist party into a collection of radical social movements.
The PRC is a member of the Party of the European Left (PEL), of which Bertinotti was the inaugural president in 2004. The PRC has not been represented in the Italian Parliament since 2008, but had a member of the European Parliament, Eleonora Forenza, who sat with the European United Left–Nordic Green Left (GUE/NGL) group in 2014–2019.


--- [Oliviero Diliberto (born October 13, 1956), Italian educator, federal ...] ---
Background Diliberto, Oliviero was born on October 13, 1956 in Cagliari, Italy. Diliberto, Oliviero was born on October 13, 1956 in Cagliari, Italy. Law Degree. Deputy, group leader Rifondazione Comunista Parliament, 1994-1996. Deputy Progressisti Parliament, 1996-1998. Member Transport, Postal and Telecommunications Services Commission, Party of Italian Communists, 1998. Minister of justice D'Alema's government, 1998-2000. General secretary Party of Italian Communists, since 2000. Minister justice Italy, 1999. Leader Italian Communist Party, Reformed. Professor Roman law University Cagliari.
