=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Charles P. Snyder (admiral) - Wikipedia]
He married the former Cornelia Lee Wolcott on July 10, 1902, and had three children: Elizabeth; Philip, who retired from the Navy as a rear admiral; and Jane. [1] He died at the Naval Hospital in Bethesda, Maryland in 1964. [5] He is buried in Arlington National Cemetery. He married Edith Hanlon Christian in 1949. His decorations include the Navy Cross for eminent and conspicuous service in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_P._Snyder_(admiral)

[Collection: Charles P. Snyder papers | U.S. Naval War College Archives]
Snyder married Cornelia Lee Wolcott in June 10, 1902; she died in 1944. The couple had three children: RADM Philip W. Snyder USN; Elizabeth Lee, wife of Captain Ethelbert Watts USN; and Jane Logan, wife of CDR William M. Collins, USN.
URL: https://www.usnwcarchives.org/repositories/2/resources/212

[Admiral Charles Philip Snyder (1879-1964) - Memorials]
Family Members · Cornelia Walcott Snyder. 1879–1944 ( m. 1902) · Edith Hanlon Snyder. 1899–1986 ( m. 1949).
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/49319414/charles_philip-snyder

[Charles P. Snyder (admiral) - reference.org]
Snyder was decorated with Navy Distinguished Service Medal for his service during World War II. Personal life He married the former Cornelia Lee Wolcott on July 10, 1902, and had three children: Elizabeth; Philip, who retired from the Navy as a rear admiral; and Jane. He died at the Naval Hospital in Bethesda, Maryland in 1964.
URL: https://reference.org/facts/charles_p_snyder_admiral/eQpezcH7

[Charles Philip Snyder (July 10, 1879 — December 3, 1964), American ...]
Background SNYDER, Charles Philip was born on July 10, 1879 in Charleston. Kanawha, West Virginia, United States. Son of Charles Philip and Jane (Goshorn) Snyder. Education Graduated from the United States Naval Academy, 1900. Doctor of Laws, Washington and Lee University, 1943. Career ; children—Elizabeth Lee ( wife of Captain Ethelbert Watts, United States Navy), Captain Philip Wolcott ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/charles_philip.snyder/938349


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Charles P. Snyder (admiral) - Wikipedia] ---
Charles Philip Snyder (July 10, 1879 – December 3, 1964) was a four-star admiral in the United States Navy who served as the U.S. Navy's first Naval Inspector General during World War II.


--- [Collection: Charles P. Snyder papers | U.S. Naval War College Archives] ---
Charles P. Snyder papers Scope and Contents The collection consists of sixteen boxes of manuscripts that document the admiral's naval career from 1896 to 1953. The papers are important not only from the standpoint of tracing an officer's career path to flag rank, but they also provide insights into issues facing the Navy during the first four decades of the twentieth century and they chronicle events of the period. Series I consists of biographical information and includes an official navy biography as well as Snyder's service record, while Series II contains all of his naval orders from 1900 to 1945. The largest portion of the collection, however, contains Admiral Snyder's correspondence, which is divided into official Navy correspondence, personal correspondence, and Naval War College correspondence and contains both letters received and letters sent. Official correspondence, 1896-1947, contains requests for leave, transfers, appointments, meetings, assignments, applications, promotions, commissions, reports, fitness reports, medals, awards, requisitions, transportation and temporary duty. Personal correspondence, 1902-1953, contains letters to and from prominent naval officers and family members, including Edward E. Spafford, William A. Moffet, Ralph Earle, son Philip w. Snyder, James O. Richardson, William V. Pratt, Joseph K. Taussig, Chester W. Nimitz, Harris Laning, William H. Standley, Robert E. Coontz, William s. Sims, Joseph M. Reeves, Jonas Ingram and Walter Krueger regarding professional and family concerns. There are letters of congratulations regarding his promotions and letters of condolence upon the death of his wife, Cornelia, as well. The third segment of correspondence contains letters sent and received during his tenure as Naval War College president. These include letters sent to local civic organizations, heads of the various Navy Bureaus and prominent naval officers. Letters to the American Naval Mission in Brazil provide interesting commentary on that activity. There is an insightful letter on the 1938 Munich Crisis as well. Speeches contain remarks by Snyder upon assuming and being relieved of command of the Battle Force as well as talks on naval topics by unidentified persons. The series contains speeches by Admirals Thomas c. Hart, David F. Sellers, James O. Richardson, William L. Rodgers, Chester W. Nimitz, Ernest J. King and Admiral of the Fleet Lord Keyes, RN, H. Struve Hensel, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and James Forrestal, Secretary of the Navy, on the United States Navy, seapower in the Philippines, the coordination of the Armed Services, World War II in the Pacific Theatre and Naval Power, as well as dedication and graduation addresses. Snyder's 1925 Naval War College theses on policy and on command are included here as well as a paper on the principles of war as applied to naval warfare by an unidentified author. There are lectures on the development of international law by Payson S. Wild, Jr., 1938; on the mission a~d work of the Naval War College by William Veazie Pratt, 1926; on aviation in the Sino-Japanese War by LCDR Ralph Oftsie, 1938; and the function of the Naval War College in developing a sound naval character among officers of the Navy by William L. Rodgers, 1923. Ships' rosters, lists of flag officers, Task Force and Fleet Organization, schedules and locators for ships and squadrons, Bureau of Navigation bulletins, ALNAV bulletins, press releases, fleet operations orders, notices of change of command ceremonies and crossing the line ceremonies, information on The Green Bowlers (a secret organization of naval officers), and ships' newspapers comprise the materials within the Naval papers series. Miscellany contains a variety of career related ephemera, including reprints of U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings articles, editions of Our Navy, naval manuals, programs for concerts, dinners and ceremonies, invitations and menus, diplomas and certificates, place cards, business cards and Christmas cards, maps, career related newspaper clippings, newspapers treating the Spanish-American War and Dewey's victory at Manila Bay, 1898, scrapbooks of the voyage of the Great White Fleet, 1908, and the return of the remains of John Paul Jones to the United states in 1905, postcards, tourists brochures and guides. Photographs include both family and career pictures. All of the photographs have been identified as far as possible, dated, and the approximate size recorded. There are a large group of photographs of Admiral Snyder throughout his naval career, including his assignment as superintendent of Midshipmen when he escorted Prince and Princess Takamatsu of Japan during their U.S. visit in 1931, of the Fleet's visit to Peru in 1936, of crossing the line ceremonies, of ships of the Great White Fleet, 1907-1908, and of the launching of USS PIKE in 1935 and the Submarine V-1 in 1924. Dates - 1896 - 1947 Creator - Snyder, Charles P. (Person) Conditions Governing Access Access is open to all researchers, unless otherwise specified. Conditions Governing Use Material in this collection is in the public domain, unless otherwise noted. Biographical Note Charles P. Snyder was born in Charleston, West Virginia, on July 10, 1879 to Charles P. and Jane Goshorn Snyder. He graduated from the local high school in 1895 and then attended Washington and Lee University for one year. He enrolled in the United States Naval Academy in 1896 and graduated fourth in the class of 1900. His first assignment was at the Naval Torpedo Station in Newport, RI, where he took the course in torpedoes and was executive officer of the torpedo boat USS GWINN. He served in USS ALABAMA for four years and then in USS CHATTANOOGA, which brought the remains of John Paul Jones from Paris to the U.S. Naval Academy in 1905. After two years of teaching in the Department of Navigation at the U.S. Naval Academy, he reported to USS VERMONT in June 1907 as watch and division officer. A ship of the Great White Fleet, the VERMONT made the cruise around the world and he remained with her until the fall of 1908. He then reported to the USS CLEVELAND on the Asiatic Station for two years. This was followed by an assignment as senior engineering officer in USS MARYLAND. A three year teaching assignment at the U.S. Naval Academy and another three year assignment in the USS DELAWARE completed his pre WWI service. During World War I, he was commanding officer of USS OREGON where he trained officers for the war. He then commanded USS MONGOLIA which transported troops and supplies to Europe. He was awarded the Navy Cross for the latter assignment. In the immediate postwar period, he was commanding officer of the USS MINNEAPOLIS. After a tour at the Portsmouth (NH) Navy Yard, he commanded the USS ARGONNE. Snyder was a member of the Class of 1925 at the Naval War College in Newport, RI, and he continued on the staff for another year in the Operations Department. A second academic assignment as commandant of Midshipmen at the U.S. Naval Academy followed in 1928. In 1931, Snyder commanded the USS TENNESSEE and then served as Chief of Staff to the Commander, Battleships, Battle Force. In 1934, he was assigned as Commandant of the Portsmouth (NH) Navy Yard and then served as ColDlltander, Cruiser Division 6, Cruisers, Scouting Force in the USS LOUISVILLE. He was president of the Naval War College from 1937 to 1939. Following his tour in Newport, he returned to the Battle Force with the rank of admiral. During the first year of World War II, Snyder served on the General Board and as president of the Board for Inspection of Military Readiness of Naval Districts. In June 1942, he was appointed Naval Inspector General and continued on active duty in that post throughout the war, despite the fact that he had reached the mandatory retirement age two years before. He retired from the service in 1947. Admiral Snyder's medals include the Navy Cross, the Distinguished Service Medal, the Spanish Campaign Medal, the Mexican Service Medal, the Victory Medal, the American Defense Service Medal, the American Area Campaign Medal and the World War II Victory Medal. He received an honorary degree from Washington and Lee University in 1943 and served as president of the U.S. Naval Academy Alumni Association. He was a member of the Army and Navy Clubs in Washington and Manila, PI, and Sigma Chi fraternity. Snyder married Cornelia Lee Wolcott in June 10, 1902; she died in 1944. The couple had three children: RADM Philip W. Snyder USN; Elizabeth Lee, wife of Captain Ethelbert Watts USN; and Jane Logan, wife of CDR William M. Collins, USN. In 1949, Snyder married Mrs. Edith Hanlon Christian. He died at the Bethesda Naval Hospital on December 3, 1964, and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. Extent 16 boxes Language of Materials English Abstract Biographical information; Official Naval Orders, 1900–1945; Official Navy correspondence, letters sent and received, requests, assignments, claims, and instructions, 1896–1947; Personal correspondence, letters sent and received, with various naval officers, 1902–1953; Naval War College personal correspondence, letters sent and received, 1937–1939; Naval War College official correspondence, letters sent and received, including information on the Munich Crisis, 1938, and the American Naval Mission, Brazil, 1937–1939; Naval War College correspondence, with Heads of Bureau of Navigation, letters received and sent, 1937–1939; Naval War College correspondence, letters sent and received with organizations, including the American Legion, the Red Cross, and the British Empire Club, 1937–1939; Correspondence, letters of condolence received on the death of Mrs. Snyder, 1944; Speeches of Admiral Snyder and James Forrestal, Admirals Chester W. Nimitz, Ernest J. King, Thomas Hart and David Sellers, undated–1946; Writings and lectures, including Naval War College theses on Policy and Command, 1923–1938; Naval papers, including ships rosters, Fleet Exercises, Change of Command ceremonies, and ship’s newspapers, 1910–1946; Miscellany, including programs, invitations, maps, clippings, diplomas, certificates, scrapbook of clippings of Admiral George Dewey and the Battle of Manila Bay, 1898, scrapbook of postcards of foreign visits; Photographs of family and career situations, including ships, naval officers and ceremonies. Folio newspaper clippings. Immediate Source of Acquisition The papers of Charles P. Snyder, career naval officer and president of the Naval War College, 1937-1939, were presented to the Naval Historical Collection by CDR John J. Waickwicz, USN, of Falls Church, Virginia, in 1993. - Language of description - English - Script of description - Latin - Box: 1 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 2 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 3 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 4 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 5 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 6 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 7 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 8 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 9 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 10 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 11 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 12 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 13x (Mixed Materials) - Box: 14x (Mixed Materials) - Box: 15 (Mixed Materials) - Box: 16 (Mixed Materials) Repository Details Part of the Naval War College Archives Repository


--- [Admiral Charles Philip Snyder (1879-1964) - Memorials] ---
US Navy Admiral. A veteran of World War I and World War II, he served as the President of the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island and became US Navy's first Inspector General during World War II. He was born in Charleston, West Virginia, the son of future Congressman Charles P. Snyder. He attended Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia for one year before entering the US Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland in 1896. After graduating from the Academy on 1900, he served the standard two years at sea as a passed cadet before being commissioned ensign in 1902 and assigned to the battleship USS Alabama. After he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant, he reported to the Naval Academy in August 1905 as an instructor in navigation and mechanics. In February 1906, he was called before a Congressional subcommittee to testify about his role as the disciplinary officer in charge during a notorious hazing incident that had resulted in an upper class man being acquitted at court-martial for the injury of a fourth class cadet on the grounds that he and other upper class men had understood that Snyder had tacitly encouraged the hazing. During World War I, he commanded the battleship USS Oregon, which was the flagship of the Pacific Fleet, the cruiser USS Minneapolis, and the transport USS Mongolia. After graduating from the Naval War College in 1925, he was promoted to the rank of captain and served tours as commandant of midshipmen at the Naval Academy, on staff at the Naval War College, and as manager of the Portsmouth Navy Yard in Kittery, Maine. In March 1933 he was promoted to the rank of rear admiral while serving as chief of staff to Admiral David F. Sellers. In 1934 he became commander of the Portsmouth Navy Yard until 1935, when he returned to sea duty and commanded a heavy cruiser division of the Scouting Force, followed by a battleship division of the Battle Force, before serving as President of the Naval War College from January 1937 to May 1939. He then returned to sea duty as Commander Battleships, Battle Force, with the temporary rank of vice admiral. In January 1940, he was promoted to the temporary rank of admiral and became Commander Battle Force, with his flagship being the battleship USS California. In this position, he was second in command of the US Fleet, under Admiral James O. Richardson. In January 1941 Richardson was relieved over a dispute about fleet basing and replaced by Husband E. Kimmel, a junior rear admiral. Simultaneously, the fleet was reorganized and the position of Commander Battle Force was downgraded to three stars, a change scheduled to take effect upon the completion of Snyder's tour that summer. For reasons of his own, he did not want to serve under Kimmel, and asked to be relieved immediately. He reverted to his permanent rank of rear admiral and became a member of the US Navy General Board with additional duty as the president of the Board for Inspection of Military Readiness in Naval Districts. As a member of the General Board, he participated in the debate over the role of African American sailors in the Navy. The Navy's policy was to confine black sailors to menial duties as stewards and mess attendants, excluding them from general service on the grounds that they were unable to maintain discipline among white subordinates and therefore had to be segregated, which was impractical at sea. When the General Board convened on January 23, 1942, he suggested expanding black enlistment in rigidly segregated support roles outside the service branches. From May 1942 until April 1946, he served as the first Naval Inspector General. His position was used as a troubleshooter during World War II, inspecting shore facilities and investigating misconduct. He was instructed to keep the organization small and to rely on augmentation from the Fleet. He retired in August 1943 upon reaching the statutory age, and was advanced to the rank of admiral on the retired list as the highest rank in which he had served, but remained on active duty as inspector general until after the end of World War II. In early 1946, he investigated the sinking of the heavy cruiser USS Indianapolis in his official capacity as inspector general, but agreed to curtail his investigation so that Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King and Navy Secretary James V. Forrestal could immediately bring court-martial proceedings against the Indianapolis' commanding officer, Captain Charles B. McVay III. He then officially left the US Navy, with 46 years of continuous active service. Among his military decorations and awards include the Navy Cross for eminent and conspicuous service in World War I, the World War I Victory Medal, and the World War II Victory Medal. He received an honorary Doctor of Laws Degree from Washington and Lee College in January 1943. He died in Bethesda, Maryland at the age of 85. Navy Cross Citation The President of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting the Navy Cross to Captain Charles Philip Snyder, United States Navy, for distinguished service in the line of his profession as Commanding Officer of the U.S.S. Mongolia, engaged in the important, exacting and hazardous duty of transporting and escorting troops and supplies to European ports through waters infested with enemy submarines and mines during World War I. US Navy Admiral. A veteran of World War I and World War II, he served as the President of the Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island and became US Navy's first Inspector General during World War II. He was born in Charleston, West Virginia, the son of future Congressman Charles P. Snyder. He attended Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Virginia for one year before entering the US Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland in 1896. After graduating from the Academy on 1900, he served the standard two years at sea as a passed cadet before being commissioned ensign in 1902 and assigned to the battleship USS Alabama. After he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant, he reported to the Naval Academy in August 1905 as an instructor in navigation and mechanics. In February 1906, he was called before a Congressional subcommittee to testify about his role as the disciplinary officer in charge during a notorious hazing incident that had resulted in an upper class man being acquitted at court-martial for the injury of a fourth class cadet on the grounds that he and other upper class men had understood that Snyder had tacitly encouraged the hazing. During World War I, he commanded the battleship USS Oregon, which was the flagship of the Pacific Fleet, the cruiser USS Minneapolis, and the transport USS Mongolia. After graduating from the Naval War College in 1925, he was promoted to the rank of captain and served tours as commandant of midshipmen at the Naval Academy, on staff at the Naval War College, and as manager of the Portsmouth Navy Yard in Kittery, Maine. In March 1933 he was promoted to the rank of rear admiral while serving as chief of staff to Admiral David F. Sellers. In 1934 he became commander of the Portsmouth Navy Yard until 1935, when he returned to sea duty and commanded a heavy cruiser division of the Scouting Force, followed by a battleship division of the Battle Force, before serving as President of the Naval War College from January 1937 to May 1939. He then returned to sea duty as Commander Battleships, Battle Force, with the temporary rank of vice admiral. In January 1940, he was promoted to the temporary rank of admiral and became Commander Battle Force, with his flagship being the battleship USS California. In this position, he was second in command of the US Fleet, under Admiral James O. Richardson. In January 1941 Richardson was relieved over a dispute about fleet basing and replaced by Husband E. Kimmel, a junior rear admiral. Simultaneously, the fleet was reorganized and the position of Commander Battle Force was downgraded to three stars, a change scheduled to take effect upon the completion of Snyder's tour that summer. For reasons of his own, he did not want to serve under Kimmel, and asked to be relieved immediately. He reverted to his permanent rank of rear admiral and became a member of the US Navy General Board with additional duty as the president of the Board for Inspection of Military Readiness in Naval Districts. As a member of the General Board, he participated in the debate over the role of African American sailors in the Navy. The Navy's policy was to confine black sailors to menial duties as stewards and mess attendants, excluding them from general service on the grounds that they were unable to maintain discipline among white subordinates and therefore had to be segregated, which was impractical at sea. When the General Board convened on January 23, 1942, he suggested expanding black enlistment in rigidly segregated support roles outside the service branches. From May 1942 until April 1946, he served as the first Naval Inspector General. His position was used as a troubleshooter during World War II, inspecting shore facilities and investigating misconduct. He was instructed to keep the organization small and to rely on augmentation from the Fleet. He retired in August 1943 upon reaching the statutory age, and was advanced to the rank of admiral on the retired list as the highest rank in which he had served, but remained on active duty as inspector general until after the end of World War II. In early 1946, he investigated the sinking of the heavy cruiser USS Indianapolis in his official capacity as inspector general, but agreed to curtail his investigation so that Fleet Admiral Ernest J. King and Navy Secretary James V. Forrestal could immediately bring court-martial proceedings against the Indianapolis' commanding officer, Captain Charles B. McVay III. He then officially left the US Navy, with 46 years of continuous active service. Among his military decorations and awards include the Navy Cross for eminent and conspicuous service in World War I, the World War I Victory Medal, and the World War II Victory Medal. He received an honorary Doctor of Laws Degree from Washington and Lee College in January 1943. He died in Bethesda, Maryland at the age of 85. Navy Cross Citation The President of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting the Navy Cross to Captain Charles Philip Snyder, United States Navy, for distinguished service in the line of his profession as Commanding Officer of the U.S.S. Mongolia, engaged in the important, exacting and hazardous duty of transporting and escorting troops and supplies to European ports through waters infested with enemy submarines and mines during World War I. Gravesite Details ADM US NAVY; WORLD WAR I; WORLD WAR II Family Members Sponsored by Ancestry


--- [Charles P. Snyder (admiral) - reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Charles Philip Snyder (July 10, 1879 — December 3, 1964), American ...] ---
No content
