=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Niels Erik Norlund - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Norlund/

[Geodetic Institute In 1907 – at age 19 – Inge Lehmann enrols in the Univ]
In 1925, at the age of 37, Inge Lehmann is appointed assistant to Niels E. Nørlund, who is the director of the 'Gradmålingen', which is a geodetic institute responsible for establishing seismological stations in Denmark and Greenland. Niels Erik Nørlund (1885-1981) was Inge Lehmann's boss at Gradmålingen - later the Geodetic Institute.
URL: https://nbi.ku.dk/english/www/inge/lehmann/andet-kap/

[Niels Erik Nørlund and Niels Bohr - arkiv.dk]
He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic ...
URL: https://arkiv.dk/vis/6015580

[Niels Erik Norlund]
He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a ...
URL: https://ns1.almerja.com/more.php?idm=80697

[Niels Erik Nørlund (1885 - 1981) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Niels-Erik-N%C3%B8rlund/6000000012334042423


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Niels Erik Norlund - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Niels Erik Norlund Quick Info Slagelse, near Soro, Sjaelland, Denmark Copenhagen, Denmark Biography Niels Norlund's father was Alfred Norlund who ran the pharmacy in the small town of Slagelse. Niels was the oldest of his parents' three children, having a younger sister Margrethe and a younger brother Poul. Margrethe is mentioned elsewhere in this archive as the wife of Niels Bohr whom she married on 1 August 1912. Poul became a famous archaeologist and director of the National Museum in Copenhagen. Niels attended elementary school in Slagelse but then had to go to the larger nearby town of Soro for his secondary schooling. He attended the excellent Soro Academy, completing his school education in 1903.At school Norlund had loved mathematics and astronomy. When he entered the University of Copenhagen in 1903, he was still undecided as to which subject he should specialise in. So, he did the sensible thing and studied both subjects. Norlund had a number of lecturers with international reputations: for example he was taught mathematics by Hieronymus Georg Zeuthen, Julius Petersen, and Niels Nielsen; and astronomy by Thorvald Thiele. Norlund was most attracted by the vigorous Niels Nielsen, who lectured on the theory of functions, and by Thorvald Thiele whose interests in astronomy were mainly on orbits and the three-body problem. Norlund's first publication was in 1905 when he published a paper on a known double star in Ursa Major which, with careful measurements of their orbits, he was able to deduce was actually a triple system with a third star which was too faint to observe. This fine piece of theoretical and observational work led to his appointment as an assistant at the Astronomical Observatory at the University of Copenhagen, working under Thiele who was the director. In addition to spending considerable time observing star positions and proper motions of stars, Norlund also undertook research in mathematics. In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques Ⓣ; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues Ⓣ both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. These publications in the most prestigious French journal earned Norlund an international reputation despite still being an undergraduate. In the summer of 1910 he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics Bidrag til de lineaere differentialligningers Theori Ⓣ. In the same year he published the 100-page paper Fractions continues et différences réciproques Ⓣ as well as Sur les fractions continues d'interpolation Ⓣ, a paper on Halley's comet, and an obituary of his teacher Thorvald Thiele. Bang writes of Norlund's doctoral thesis [1]:- The thesis is the beginning of the penetrating study of difference equations that he accomplished in the following 15 years. The problem in difference equations is to find general methods for determining a function when the size of its increase on intervals of a given length is known.We explained at the beginning of this biography how Norlund's sister Margrethe married Niels Bohr. Of course Niels Bohr was the brother of the outstanding mathematician Harald Bohr who was a close friend of Norlund; for example each read the proofs of the others doctoral thesis. Following the award of his doctorate, Norlund remained at Copenhagen for two years continuing to work as an assistant at the Observatory. In 1912 he was appointed to a new chair of mathematics at the university in Lund in Sweden. In the same year he married Agnete Waever; they had two daughters. He held the chair at Lund for ten years and during this time he left his interest in astronomy and concentrated entirely on research in mathematics. Bang explains the main aspects of this research in [1]:- ... a long series of papers developing the theory of difference equations. He studied the factorial series and interpolation series entering in their solutions, determining their region of convergence and by analytic prolongation and different summation methods he extended them in the complex plane, determining their singularities and their behaviour at infinity, also by use of their relations to continued fractions and asymptotic series. In particular the little paper 'Sur une application des fonctions permutables' Ⓣ from 1919 should be mentioned: there he states some universal results on the summability of series based on a specific - but rather general - choice of the weights given to the elements; the method includes the better of the known summability methods, such as Cesaro's method, and is now known under the standard designation of Norlund-summation.With a high international profile, Norlund was elected to the Danish Academy of Sciences in 1916. In the same year he became a member of the editorial staff of Acta mathematica, the journal founded and run by Mittag-Leffler. He was one of only five plenary speakers invited to address the 1920 International Congress of Mathematicians at Strasbourg. There he gave the lecture Sur les équations aux différences finies Ⓣ. Now it was important to attract such a high profile Danish mathematician back to Denmark, but with Copenhagen the only Danish university, and only two mathematics chairs at that university, the possibilities were very limited. To solve this situation a third mathematics chair was created at the University of Copenhagen and Norlund invited to fill it. He accepted and took up his new position in September 1922. He published the important book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung Ⓣ in 1924. R D Carmichael writes in a review [4]:- This is the first book to develop the theory of the difference calculus from the function-theoretic point of view and to include a significant part of the recent researches having to do with the analytic and asymptotic character of the solutions of linear difference equations. As such it is an important contribution to the mathematical literature and will render a service not procurable from any of its predecessors. The author presents a connected account of what appears to him to be the most important and the best developed domains of the difference calculus. The book is intended to give a preliminary view of the field and to facilitate the reading of the original memoirs. With this purpose in view the author sometimes omits proofs (too frequently, we think) leaving the reader to find them in the indicated memoirs.Events conspired to stop Norlund carrying out mathematical research during the thirty years he held the mathematics chair in Copenhagen. There were administrative duties at the university, administrative tasks related to the Danish Academy of Sciences but, most significantly, he was persuaded to take up the post of Director of Den danske Gradmaaling, the Danish institution responsible for geodesic surveys. He took on this role with enthusiasm, using the skills he had acquired during his earlier role in the Observatory. He introduced new courses at the university and established a Master's Degree in geodesy. He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey. He was appointed as director [1]:- Here he could wholly use his capacity for organizing work, exacting a combination on a high level of mathematics, astronomy, physics and mechanics. Besides the necessary updating of the ordnance maps of Denmark, he put into operation new more precise triangulations and measurement of the matching new baselines and new astronomical determinations.During World War II, the German armies invaded Denmark and although for a while the country was allowed to remain a sovereign state, eventually Germans took over complete control. The Geodesic Institute could not continue with its work, but Norland used the opportunity to produce a series of atlases, detailing the history of the mapping of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. They were produced using the resources of the Institute and are truly beautiful works, highly sought after today. Also during World War II he published a number of mathematics papers such as Ausgleichung nach der Methode der kleinsten Quadrate bei gruppenweiser Anordnung der Beobachtungen Ⓣ (1940) and Determination of the weights for the unknowns in graduation of elements (Danish) (1943). In 1955 Norland reached retirement age. That mathematics was his first love now became clear, for once he gave up the responsibilities of the Geodesic Institute he returned to mathematics research. He published Hypergeometric functions in 1955 which was reviewed by Arthur Erdélyi:- This is one of those rare papers in which sound mathematics goes hand in hand with excellent exposition and style; and the reader is both instructed and delighted. It is likely to become the standard memoir on the generalized hypergeometric series ...The paper Sur les fonctions hypergéométriques d'ordre supérieur Ⓣ (1956) gives a very full, rigorous and classical treatment of some integrals from generalized hypergeometric function theory. Let us give one further example of the papers Norland published after he retired. This is The logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric equation (1963) which was reviewed by L J Slater:- In this important paper the author discusses in a clear and detailed way the complete logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric differential equation satisfied by the Gauss function ... Complete tables are given of the linear and quadratic relations which hold between the various solutions in every possible special case. Tables are also given for the continuation formulae which hold between the logarithmic and other cases of Riemann's P-function, and the paper concludes with a very clear statement of the logarithmic solutions of the confluent hypergeometric equation satisfied by Kummer's function ...Norlund received a large number of honours for his contributions to mathematics and to geodesy. He was elected to the Det kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskab (1916), the Société des Sciences, Strasbourg (1920), the Accademia Pontaniana, Napoli (1925), the Kungliga Vetenskapsakademien, Stockholm (1925), the Societas scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki (1926), the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1926), the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Roma (1927), the Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, Halle (1927), the Royal Astronomical Society, London (1935), the Bureau des Longitudes, Paris (1937), the Royal Society, London (1938), the Akademiet for de tekniske Videnskaber, Kobenhavn (1939), the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Oslo (1946), the Vetenskapsakademien, Helsinki (1946), the Det kungliga vetenskapliga Sallskapet, Uppsala (1951), the Societas scientiarum Islandica, Reykjavik (1959), and the New York Academy of Sciences (1960). He received the Grand Prix of the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1916), the Kungliga Fysiografiska Sallskapets Gold Medal (1916), the Ole Rømer Medal (1954), and the Vitus Bering Medal (1958). Finally let us look at Norlund's character [1]:- Nobody who met Norlund could doubt that he was a great personality, a conclusion in keeping also with his tall aristocratic stature. He was a man of few words, not immediately obliging to strangers, and even his closer collaborators often felt his taciturnity embarrassing. This coolness could be felt as an aloofness; maybe it was due to some sort of shyness, but on the other hand his words thus gained more importance and one could feel how he exerted himself to find the right solution to problems. Students or employees who came closer to him could rejoice at his warm-hearted interest, but as an administrator he could be severe. Maybe that was necessary in his position ... References (show) - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund. 26 October 1885-4 July 1981, Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the Royal Society 29 (1983), 481-493. - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund in memoriam, Acta Math. 161 (1-2) (1988), 11-22. - L Carleson and L Garding, Obituary of Niels Erik Norlund, Acta Math. 148 (1982), 1. - R D Carmichael, Review: Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung by Niels Erik Norlund, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 31 (8) (1925), 445-449. - H Cartan, Niels Erik Norlund (French), C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Vie Académique 297 (1983), suppl. 9, 17. Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Niels Norlund: Honours (show) Honours awarded to Niels Norlund Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update February 2010 Last Update February 2010


--- [Geodetic Institute In 1907 – at age 19 – Inge Lehmann enrols in the Univ] ---
Geodetic Institute In 1907 – at age 19 – Inge Lehmann enrols in the Univ In 1907 – at age 19 – Inge Lehmann enrols in the University of Copenhagen, where she begins her studies in mathematics, which will take 13 years to complete. But then her career takes off and it soon becomes apparent that she has an extraordinary sense for earthquakes. Several years into her studies, in 1910, young Inge Lehmann moves to England, where she begins to study at the prestigious University of Cambridge. Here she experiences an entirely new culture compared to the one she is used to from her schooldays with Hanna Adler. International education At Cambridge, the male and female students are not equal. There are many more restrictions for the young women than there are for the young men and the women do not have the same rights as the men. They even keep an eye on how the young women behave themselves - both when they are at the university and when they have spare time. Inge Lehmann still enjoys her one-year stay at Cambridge. The following year, Lehmann returns to Copenhagen, but the trip has taken a toll on her health and she has to take a break from her studies. She calls it ‘overexertion’ and it is probably what we would call stress today. For more than four years, she works for an actuary, where she learns to make calculations – an ability that serves her well later in life. In 1918, she resumes her studies at the University of Copenhagen and she completes her education with a Masters in mathematics and physics in 1920 – after more than a decade with both illness and long periods in the classroom. In the fall of 1922, she once again turned her sights abroad towards a new study trip, this time in Hamburg in Germany. Here she works with Wilhelm Blaschke, a professor of mathematics. The following year, in 1923, she heads back to Copenhagen again where she gets a job as an assistant at the Laboratory of Actuarial Mathematics at the University of Copenhagen. Assistant at Den Danske Gradmålingen (Institute for the Measurement of Degrees) In 1925, at the age of 37, Inge Lehmann is appointed assistant to Niels E. Nørlund, who is the director of the 'Gradmålingen', which is a geodetic institute responsible for establishing seismological stations in Denmark and Greenland. The following year, she helps install one of the world’s most accurate seismographs in the Vestervold ramparts in Copenhagen. It will be part of a worldwide network of seismographic stations that will register vibrations in the Earth that, for example, could come from earthquakes. In Denmark, they choose to bet on high quality seismographs, partly to catch up with the rest of Europe and partly because Den Danske Gradmåling wants to compete with the Niels Bohr Institute to be taken seriously as a research institute. Conversations with Europe’s best seismologists Inge Lehmann’s work at Gradmålingen opens her eyes to the idea that you can use seismological measurements of earthquakes, explosions and other vibrations in the Earth to gather information about the Earth’s interior. This piques her interest and she begins to seek out some of the world’s leading seismologists, including Beno Gutenberg who becomes her mentor. Inge Lehmann travels around Europe and visits some of the continents most important seismologists and geophysicists and “everywhere I was received very kindly and got a lot of information,” she wrote later. She spends an entire month with Gutenberg in Darmstadt in Germany and from that point on he also became her good friend: " With great kindness, he guided my studies excellently," she says of him. In 1927, Inge participates in a meeting in Prague for The International Geodetic and Geophysical Union – even though "it was not customary for a person in my position,” she recalls many years later as a 99-year-old in 1987 in Seismology in the Days of Old. Among the participants at the meeting are Beno Gutenberg and the influential seismologist Harold Jeffreys and one of the things that are being discussed a great deal is the measurement of the time it takes for seismic waves to pass through the Earth’s interior. Inge Lehmann has a rewarding and long-lasting friendship with both of the famous researchers and they take up this same discussion many times. State geodesist with special talents Inge Lehmann has no experience with seismology when she finds employment with Gradmålingen in 1925, but she quickly gets the hang of it and it also soon becomes apparent that she has an extraordinary sense for earthquakes... In 1928, Inge Lehmann receives her Masters in geodesy and the same year – highly unusual for a woman at the time – she is appointed state geodesist at Gradmålingen, which is newly christened the ‘Geodetic Institute’ the same year. She holds the position of state geodesist until she retires in 1953. As a state geodesist, it is Inge Lehmann’s responsibility to make sure that stations in Copenhagen, Ivigtut and Scoresundby in Greenland are functioning and that the instruments in Copenhagen are properly adjusted – but the station in Scoresundby really causes problems because no one really wants to live in the city where the only transportation option is the boat that arrives once a year. Doing it herself Inge Lehmann is also responsible for interpreting and publishing the seismograms coming from the stations and even though no one really expects research from her, she does it anyway – in her spare time. At times, she has assistants, but most often there is no one – not even for the office work – so she has to manage most of it herself. Her special talents soon make her a highly respected figure among other scientists – she is elected to boards and corresponds with the best researchers in the world. At this point, Inge Lehmann was already known as a somewhat unusual seismologist and her method was described as particularly visual, creative and intuitive, as opposed to many of her male colleagues who increasingly took advantage of ‘ordinary computing’. There is no doubt that if Inge Lehmann had not mastered the difficult mathematics and physics, she would have never achieved the results she did. Seismograph A 'seismograph' or a 'seismometer' is an instrument for measuring vibrations in the earth that could, for example, be caused by earthquakes or explosions. The result is a so-called 'seismogram', that shows a graph of the vibrations. Inge Lehmann was an expert in reading seismograms. Seen above is a so-called ‘kinematic’ seismograph, which was previously used in the United States and seen below is a modern digital seismogram showing an earthquake in 2004. So-called 'seismic waves’ are pressure waves and shear waves that shear waves that spread through the Earth or other bodies. P-waves are longitudinal waves and S-waves are transverse. S-waves travel at a speed that is about 60 percent that of P-waves. P-waves are those that come first – the ‘primary’. Then the S-waves arrive – the ‘secondary’. The last to arrive are the I-waves, which have a long wavelength. Inge Lehmann was the first to describe the Earth’s solid inner core using measurements and analyses of what we know today as PKP-waves. Seen above is an illustration of the path of the ways through the Earth, where you can also see the so-called 'shadow zone', which Denmark is often placed in and which gave Inge Lehmann the opportunity to make unique observations. Geodesy Geodesy is the science of the Earth’s shape and its gravitational field. The force of gravity across the surface of the Earth varies due to subsurface diversity – the greater the mass, the greater the gravity. But gravity is very complicated to calculate. You have to combine the position with gravitational force and its direction (gravity on a mountainside, for example, does not point straight down, but slants inwards towards the mountain’s mass) and these measurements have to be combined to obtain an accurate measurement of the gravity in an area. Before, you had to wander around in rough terrain and make scattered point measurements. You went around from place to place with measuring equipment and made measurements of astronomical positions and measurements of gravity at the location. Computer models were later developed that combine measurements from satellites and data on Earth to map the gravitational field and in March 2009, the European Space Agency ESA launched a new satellite, GOCE, to map the entire Earth’s gravitational field. From the Earth’s gravitational field you can answer questions in climate research and it is important in the exploration of oil and other resources in the subsurface. See video of the Earth’s gravitational field Why did she become a seismologist? Many have wondered why Inge Lehmann’s decision to go into seismology as a field of work? Some think that Hanna Adler, who was Niels Bohr’s aunt, may have influenced Bohr in connection with her appointment as state geodesist, but a family member denies that this was the case to the author Bjarne Kousholt (Inge Lehmann and the Earth’s Core, 2005). Actually, Inge Lehmann, at least in her old age, did not like Niels Bohr, because she believes that he prevented her from getting a professorship in geophysics in 1952 A strained relationship “I certainly don’t think that Niels Bohr had anything to do with her choice of education. Actually, she had a somewhat strained relationship with him, because she believed he stood in the way of her professorship,” he explains. “She did not think that he appreciated the talents of others very much – rather he was anxious to stand out as the brilliant genius without any competition. And as for Niels Nørlund, I just cannot image that he influenced her decision,” says the person to Bjarne Kousholt several years after Inge Lehmann’s death. Earth’s inner core The Earth’s inner core is the innermost part of the Earth and is comprised of a solid sphere with a radius of approximately 1,220 km. It is estimated that the core consists mainly of iron and nickel and it is about the same temperature as the Sun, i.e. 5400 degrees Celsius. Before Inge Lehmann’s article P', published in 1936 and which proved the existence of a solid inner core, the general opinion among experts was that the interior of the Earth was entirely liquid.


--- [Niels Erik Nørlund and Niels Bohr - arkiv.dk] ---
Niels Erik Nørlund and Niels Bohr at the Mathematical Institute, Copenhagen. Bemærkning Niels Erik Nørlund (1885 – 1981) was a Danish mathematician. Nørlund's first publication was in 1905 when he published a paper on a known double star in Ursa Major which, with careful measurements of their orbits, he was able to deduce was actually a triple system with a third star which was too faint to observe. In the summer of 1910, he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics. In 1912 he was appointed to a new chair of mathematics at the university in Lund in Sweden. He became professor of mathematics at Copenhagen University in 1922. He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute. Årstal 1947 Dateringsnote Taken at the celebration of Harald Bohr's 60th birthday. Fotograf Ukendt Se på kort Arkiv Niels Bohr Archive Cookies på arkiv.dk arkiv.dk anvender cookies til at forbedre din brugeroplevelse og til indsamling af statistik. Nødvendige cookies hjælper med at gøre en hjemmeside brugbar ved at aktivere grundlæggende funktioner, såsom side-navigation og adgang til sikre områder af hjemmesiden. Hjemmesiden kan ikke fungere optimalt uden disse cookies. Statistik Statistiske cookies hjælper os med at forstå, hvordan besøgende interagerer med hjemmesiden ved at indsamle og rapportere oplysninger. Se anvendte cookies Cookieudbyder Navn Formål Type Varighed Vimeo vuid Indsamler data om brugerens besøg på hjemmesiden såsom hvilke sider der er læst. 3. part 2 år Marketing Marketing cookies bruges til at spore brugere på tværs af websites. Hensigten er at vise annoncer, der er relevant og engagerende for den enkelte bruger, og dermed mere værdifulde for udgivere og tredjeparts-annoncører. Se anvendte cookies Cookieudbyder Formål Type Youtube Indsamler oplysninger om brugerne og deres aktivitet på websitet via indlejrede videoafspillere med det formål at levere målrettet annoncering. 3. part Vimeo Indsamler oplysninger om brugerne og deres aktivitet på websitet via indlejrede videoafspillere med det formål at levere målrettet annoncering. 3. part Shareaholic Indsamler oplysninger om brugerne og deres aktivitet på websitet og delingen af indhold på sociale medier med det formål at levere målrettet annoncering.


--- [Niels Erik Norlund] ---
تاريخ الرياضيات الاعداد و نظريتها تاريخ التحليل تار يخ الجبر الهندسة و التبلوجي الرياضيات في الحضارات المختلفة العربية اليونانية البابلية الصينية المايا المصرية الهندية الرياضيات المتقطعة المنطق اسس الرياضيات فلسفة الرياضيات مواضيع عامة في المنطق الجبر الجبر الخطي الجبر المجرد الجبر البولياني مواضيع عامة في الجبر الضبابية نظرية المجموعات نظرية الزمر نظرية الحلقات والحقول نظرية الاعداد نظرية الفئات حساب المتجهات المتتاليات-المتسلسلات المصفوفات و نظريتها المثلثات الهندسة الهندسة المستوية الهندسة غير المستوية مواضيع عامة في الهندسة التفاضل و التكامل المعادلات التفاضلية و التكاملية معادلات تفاضلية معادلات تكاملية مواضيع عامة في المعادلات التحليل التحليل العددي التحليل العقدي التحليل الدالي مواضيع عامة في التحليل التحليل الحقيقي التبلوجيا نظرية الالعاب الاحتمالات و الاحصاء نظرية التحكم بحوث العمليات نظرية الكم الشفرات الرياضيات التطبيقية نظريات ومبرهنات علماء الرياضيات 500AD 500-1499 1000to1499 1500to1599 1600to1649 1650to1699 1700to1749 1750to1779 1780to1799 1800to1819 1820to1829 1830to1839 1840to1849 1850to1859 1860to1864 1865to1869 1870to1874 1875to1879 1880to1884 1885to1889 1890to1894 1895to1899 1900to1904 1905to1909 1910to1914 1915to1919 1920to1924 1925to1929 1930to1939 1940to the present علماء الرياضيات الرياضيات في العلوم الاخرى بحوث و اطاريح جامعية هل تعلم طرائق التدريس الرياضيات العامة نظرية البيان Niels Erik Norlund المؤلف: T Bang المصدر: Niels Erik Norlund in memoriam, Acta Math. 161 (1-2) (1988) الجزء والصفحة: ... 13-6-2017 16270 Died: 4 July 1981 in Copenhagen, Denmark Niels Norlund's father was Alfred Norlund who ran the pharmacy in the small town of Slagelse. Niels was the oldest of his parents' three children, having a younger sister Margrethe and a younger brother Poul. Margrethe is mentioned elsewhere in this archive as the wife of Niels Bohr who she married on 1 August 1912. Poul became a famous archaeologist and director of the National Museum in Copenhagen. Niels attended elementary school in Slagelse but then had to go to the larger nearby town of Soro for his secondary schooling. He attended the excellent Soro Academy, completing his school education in 1903. At school Norlund had loved mathematics and astronomy. When he entered the University of Copenhagen in 1903, he was still undecided as to which subject he should specialise in. So, he did the sensible thing and studied both subjects. Norlund had a number of lecturers with international reputations: for example he was taught mathematics by Hieronymus Georg Zeuthen, Julius Petersen, and Niels Nielsen; and astronomy by Thorvald Thiele. Norlund was most attracted by the vigorous Niels Nielsen, who lectured on the theory of functions, and by Thorvald Thiele whose interests in astronomy were mainly on orbits and the three-body problem. Norlund's first publication was in 1905 when he published a paper on a known double star in Ursa Major which, with careful measurements of their orbits, he was able to deduce was actually a triple system with a third star which was too faint to observe. This fine piece of theoretical and observational work led to his appointment as an assistant at the Astronomical Observatory at the University of Copenhagen, working under Thiele who was the director. In addition to spending considerable time observing star positions and proper motions of stars, Norlund also undertook research in mathematics. In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. These publications in the most prestigious French journal earned Norlund an international reputation despite still being an undergraduate. In the summer of 1910 he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics Bidrag til de lineaere differentialligningers Theori. In the same year he published the 100-page paper Fractions continues et différences réciproques as well as Sur les fractions continues d'interpolation, a paper on Halley's comet, and an obituary of his teacher Thorvald Thiele. Bang writes of Norlund's doctoral thesis [1]:- The thesis is the beginning of the penetrating study of difference equations that he accomplished in the following 15 years. The problem in difference equations is to find general methods for determining a function when the size of its increase on intervals of a given length is known. We explained at the beginning of this biography how Norlund's sister Margrethe married Niels Bohr. Of course Niels Bohr was the brother of the outstanding mathematician Harald Bohr who was a close friend of Norlund; for example each read the proofs of the others doctoral thesis. Following the award of his doctorate, Norlund remained at Copenhagen for two years continuing to work as an assistant at the Observatory. In 1912 he was appointed to a new chair of mathematics at the university in Lund in Sweden. In the same year he married Agnete Waever; they had two daughters. He held the chair at Lund for ten years and during this time he left his interest in astronomy and concentrated entirely on research in mathematics. Bang explains the main aspects of this research in [1]:- ... a long series of papers developing the theory of difference equations. He studied the factorial series and interpolation series entering in their solutions, determining their region of convergence and by analytic prolongation and different summation methods he extended them in the complex plane, determining their singularities and their behaviour at infinity, also by use of their relations to continued fractions and asymptotic series. In particular the little paper 'Sur une application des fonctions permutables' from 1919 should be mentioned: there he states some universal results on the summability of series based on a specific - but rather general - choice of the weights given to the elements; the method includes the better of the known summability methods, such as Cesaro's method, and is now known under the standard designation of Norlund-summation. With a high international profile, Norlund was elected to the Danish Academy of Sciences in 1916. In the same year he became a member of the editorial staff of Acta mathematica, the journal founded and run by Mittag-Leffler. He was one of only five plenary speakers invited to address the 1920 International Congress of Mathematicians at Strasbourg. There he gave the lecture Sur les équations aux différences finies. Now it was important to attract such a high profile Danish mathematician back to Denmark, but with Copenhagen the only Danish university, and only two mathematics chairs at that university, the possibilities were very limited. To solve this situation a third mathematics chair was created at the University of Copenhagen and Norlund invited to fill it. He accepted and took up his new position in September 1922. He published the important book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung in 1924. R D Carmichael writes in a review [4]:- This is the first book to develop the theory of the difference calculus from the function-theoretic point of view and to include a significant part of the recent researches having to do with the analytic and asymptotic character of the solutions of linear difference equations. As such it is an important contribution to the mathematical literature and will render a service not procurable from any of its predecessors. The author presents a connected account of what appears to him to be the most important and the best developed domains of the difference calculus. The book is intended to give a preliminary view of the field and to facilitate the reading of the original memoirs. With this purpose in view the author sometimes omits proofs (too frequently, we think) leaving the reader to find them in the indicated memoirs. Events conspired to stop Norlund carrying out mathematical research during the thirty years he held the mathematics chair in Copenhagen. There were administrative duties at the university, administrative tasks related to the Danish Academy of Sciences but, most significantly, he was persuaded to take up the post of Director of Den danske Gradmaaling, the Danish institution responsible for geodesic surveys. He took on this role with enthusiasm, using the skills he had acquired during his earlier role in the Observatory. He introduced new courses at the university and established a Master's Degree in geodesy. He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey. He was appointed as director [1]:- Here he could wholly use his capacity for organizing work, exacting a combination on a high level of mathematics, astronomy, physics and mechanics. Besides the necessary updating of the ordnance maps of Denmark, he put into operation new more precise triangulations and measurement of the matching new baselines and new astronomical determinations. During World War II, the German armies invaded Denmark and although for a while the country was allowed to remain a sovereign state, eventually Germans took over complete control. The Geodesic Institute could not continue with its work, but Norland used the opportunity to produce a series of atlases, detailing the history of the mapping of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. They were produced using the resources of the Institute and are truly beautiful works, highly sought after today. Also during World War II he published a number of mathematics papers such as Ausgleichung nach der Methode der kleinsten Quadrate bei gruppenweiser Anordnung der Beobachtungen (1940) and Determination of the weights for the unknowns in graduation of elements (Danish) (1943). In 1955 Norland reached retirement age. That mathematics was his first love now became clear, for once he gave up the responsibilities of the Geodesic Institute he returned to mathematics research. He published Hypergeometric functions in 1955 which was reviewed by Arthur Erdélyi:- This is one of those rare papers in which sound mathematics goes hand in hand with excellent exposition and style; and the reader is both instructed and delighted. It is likely to become the standard memoir on the generalized hypergeometric series ... The paper Sur les fonctions hypergéométriques d'ordre supérieur (1956) gives a very full, rigorous and classical treatment of some integrals from generalized hypergeometric function theory. Let us give one further example of the papers Norland published after he retired. This is The logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric equation (1963) which was reviewed by L J Slater:- In this important paper the author discusses in a clear and detailed way the complete logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric differential equation satisfied by the Gauss function ... Complete tables are given of the linear and quadratic relations which hold between the various solutions in every possible special case. Tables are also given for the continuation formulae which hold between the logarithmic and other cases of Riemann's P-function, and the paper concludes with a very clear statement of the logarithmic solutions of the confluent hypergeometric equation satisfied by Kummer's function ... Norlund received a large number of honours for his contributions to mathematics and to geodesy. He was elected to the Det kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskab (1916), the Société des Sciences, Strasbourg (1920), the Accademia Pontaniana, Napoli (1925), the Kungliga Vetenskapsakademien, Stockholm (1925), the Societas scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki (1926), the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1926), the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Roma (1927), the Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, Halle (1927), the Royal Astronomical Society, London (1935), the Bureau des Longitudes, Paris (1937), the Royal Society, London (1938), the Akademiet for de tekniske Videnskaber, Kobenhavn (1939), the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Oslo (1946), the Vetenskapsakademien, Helsinki (1946), the Det kungliga vetenskapliga Sallskapet, Uppsala (1951), the Societas scientiarum Islandica, Reykjavik (1959), and the New York Academy of Sciences (1960). He received the Grand Prix of the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1916), the Kungliga Fysiografiska Sallskapets Gold Medal (1916), the Ole Romer Medal (1954), and the Vitus Bering Medal (1958). Finally let us look at Norlund's character [1]:- Nobody who met Norlund could doubt that he was a great personality, a conclusion in keeping also with his tall aristocratic stature. He was a man of few words, not immediately obliging to strangers, and even his closer collaborators often felt his taciturnity embarrassing. This coolness could be felt as an aloofness; maybe it was due to some sort of shyness, but on the other hand his words thus gained more importance and one could feel how he exerted himself to find the right solution to problems. Students or employees who came closer to him could rejoice at his warm-hearted interest, but as an administrator he could be severe. Maybe that was necessary in his position ... Articles: - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund. 26 October 1885-4 July 1981, Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the Royal Society 29 (1983), 481-493. - T Bang, Niels Erik Norlund in memoriam, Acta Math. 161 (1-2) (1988), 11-22. - L Carleson and L Garding, Obituary of Niels Erik Norlund, Acta Math. 148 (1982), 1. - R D Carmichael, Review: Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung by Niels Erik Norlund, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 31 (8) (1925), 445-449. - H Cartan, Niels Erik Norlund (French), C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Vie Académique 297 (1983), suppl. 9, 17.


--- [Niels Erik Nørlund (1885 - 1981) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Historical records matching Niels Erik Nørlund Immediate Family - wife - mother - father - brother - sister About Niels Erik Nørlund Niels Norlund's father was Alfred Norlund who ran the pharmacy in the small town of Slagelse. Niels was the oldest of his parents' three children, having a younger sister Margrethe and a younger brother Poul. Margrethe is mentioned elsewhere in this archive as the wife of Niels Bohr who she married on 1 August 1912. Poul became a famous archaeologist and director of the National Museum in Copenhagen. Niels attended elementary school in Slagelse but then had to go to the larger nearby town of Soro for his secondary schooling. He attended the excellent Soro Academy, completing his school education in 1903. At school Norlund had loved mathematics and astronomy. When he entered the University of Copenhagen in 1903, he was still undecided as to which subject he should specialise in. So, he did the sensible thing and studied both subjects. Norlund had a number of lecturers with international reputations: for example he was taught mathematics by Hieronymus Georg Zeuthen, Julius Petersen, and Niels Nielsen; and astronomy by Thorvald Thiele. Norlund was most attracted by the vigorous Niels Nielsen, who lectured on the theory of functions, and by Thorvald Thiele whose interests in astronomy were mainly on orbits and the three-body problem. Norlund's first publication was in 1905 when he published a paper on a known double star in Ursa Major which, with careful measurements of their orbits, he was able to deduce was actually a triple system with a third star which was too faint to observe. This fine piece of theoretical and observational work led to his appointment as an assistant at the Astronomical Observatory at the University of Copenhagen, working under Thiele who was the director. In addition to spending considerable time observing star positions and proper motions of stars, Norlund also undertook research in mathematics. In 1907 he was awarded a gold medal for an essay on continued fractions and his resulting two publications were in 1908: Sur les différences réciproques; and Sur la convergence des fractions continues both published in Comptes Rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. These publications in the most prestigious French journal earned Norlund an international reputation despite still being an undergraduate. In the summer of 1910 he earned a Master's degree in astronomy and in October of that year he successfully defended his doctoral thesis in mathematics Bidrag til de lineaere differentialligningers Theori. In the same year he published the 100-page paper Fractions continues et différences réciproques as well as Sur les fractions continues d'interpolation, a paper on Halley's comet, and an obituary of his teacher Thorvald Thiele. Bang writes of Norlund's doctoral thesis [1]:- The thesis is the beginning of the penetrating study of difference equations that he accomplished in the following 15 years. The problem in difference equations is to find general methods for determining a function when the size of its increase on intervals of a given length is known. We explained at the beginning of this biography how Norlund's sister Margrethe married Niels Bohr. Of course Niels Bohr was the brother of the outstanding mathematician Harald Bohr who was a close friend of Norlund; for example each read the proofs of the others doctoral thesis. Following the award of his doctorate, Norlund remained at Copenhagen for two years continuing to work as an assistant at the Observatory. In 1912 he was appointed to a new chair of mathematics at the university in Lund in Sweden. In the same year he married Agnete Waever; they had two daughters. He held the chair at Lund for ten years and during this time he left his interest in astronomy and concentrated entirely on research in mathematics. Bang explains the main aspects of this research in [1]:- ... a long series of papers developing the theory of difference equations. He studied the factorial series and interpolation series entering in their solutions, determining their region of convergence and by analytic prolongation and different summation methods he extended them in the complex plane, determining their singularities and their behaviour at infinity, also by use of their relations to continued fractions and asymptotic series. In particular the little paper 'Sur une application des fonctions permutables' from 1919 should be mentioned: there he states some universal results on the summability of series based on a specific - but rather general - choice of the weights given to the elements; the method includes the better of the known summability methods, such as Cesaro's method, and is now known under the standard designation of Norlund-summation. With a high international profile, Norlund was elected to the Danish Academy of Sciences in 1916. In the same year he became a member of the editorial staff of Acta mathematica, the journal founded and run by Mittag-Leffler. He was one of only five plenary speakers invited to address the 1920 International Congress of Mathematicians at Strasbourg. There he gave the lecture Sur les équations aux différences finies. Now it was important to attract such a high profile Danish mathematician back to Denmark, but with Copenhagen the only Danish university, and only two mathematics chairs at that university, the possibilities were very limited. To solve this situation a third mathematics chair was created at the University of Copenhagen and Norlund invited to fill it. He accepted and took up his new position in September 1922. He published the important book Vorlesungen über Differenzenrechnung in 1924. R D Carmichael writes in a review [4]:- This is the first book to develop the theory of the difference calculus from the function-theoretic point of view and to include a significant part of the recent researches having to do with the analytic and asymptotic character of the solutions of linear difference equations. As such it is an important contribution to the mathematical literature and will render a service not procurable from any of its predecessors. The author presents a connected account of what appears to him to be the most important and the best developed domains of the difference calculus. The book is intended to give a preliminary view of the field and to facilitate the reading of the original memoirs. With this purpose in view the author sometimes omits proofs (too frequently, we think) leaving the reader to find them in the indicated memoirs. Events conspired to stop Norlund carrying out mathematical research during the thirty years he held the mathematics chair in Copenhagen. There were administrative duties at the university, administrative tasks related to the Danish Academy of Sciences but, most significantly, he was persuaded to take up the post of Director of Den danske Gradmaaling, the Danish institution responsible for geodesic surveys. He took on this role with enthusiasm, using the skills he had acquired during his earlier role in the Observatory. He introduced new courses at the university and established a Master's Degree in geodesy. He also studied seismology and, in 1925, set up seismographic stations in Denmark and Greenland. In 1928 he persuaded the Danish government to set up a Geodesic Institute, combining the Gradmaalingen and the Danish ordinance survey. He was appointed as director [1]:- Here he could wholly use his capacity for organizing work, exacting a combination on a high level of mathematics, astronomy, physics and mechanics. Besides the necessary updating of the ordnance maps of Denmark, he put into operation new more precise triangulations and measurement of the matching new baselines and new astronomical determinations. During World War II, the German armies invaded Denmark and although for a while the country was allowed to remain a sovereign state, eventually Germans took over complete control. The Geodesic Institute could not continue with its work, but Norland used the opportunity to produce a series of atlases, detailing the history of the mapping of Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. They were produced using the resources of the Institute and are truly beautiful works, highly sought after today. Also during World War II he published a number of mathematics papers such as Ausgleichung nach der Methode der kleinsten Quadrate bei gruppenweiser Anordnung der Beobachtungen (1940) and Determination of the weights for the unknowns in graduation of elements (Danish) (1943). In 1955 Norland reached retirement age. That mathematics was his first love now became clear, for once he gave up the responsibilities of the Geodesic Institute he returned to mathematics research. He published Hypergeometric functions in 1955 which was reviewed by Arthur Erdélyi:- This is one of those rare papers in which sound mathematics goes hand in hand with excellent exposition and style; and the reader is both instructed and delighted. It is likely to become the standard memoir on the generalized hypergeometric series ... The paper Sur les fonctions hypergéométriques d'ordre supérieur (1956) gives a very full, rigorous and classical treatment of some integrals from generalized hypergeometric function theory. Let us give one further example of the papers Norland published after he retired. This is The logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric equation (1963) which was reviewed by L J Slater:- In this important paper the author discusses in a clear and detailed way the complete logarithmic solutions of the hypergeometric differential equation satisfied by the Gauss function ... Complete tables are given of the linear and quadratic relations which hold between the various solutions in every possible special case. Tables are also given for the continuation formulae which hold between the logarithmic and other cases of Riemann's P-function, and the paper concludes with a very clear statement of the logarithmic solutions of the confluent hypergeometric equation satisfied by Kummer's function ... Norlund received a large number of honours for his contributions to mathematics and to geodesy. He was elected to the Det kongelige danske Videnskabernes Selskab (1916), the Société des Sciences, Strasbourg (1920), the Accademia Pontaniana, Napoli (1925), the Kungliga Vetenskapsakademien, Stockholm (1925), the Societas scientiarum Fennica, Helsinki (1926), the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1926), the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei, Roma (1927), the Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher, Halle (1927), the Royal Astronomical Society, London (1935), the Bureau des Longitudes, Paris (1937), the Royal Society, London (1938), the Akademiet for de tekniske Videnskaber, Kobenhavn (1939), the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Oslo (1946), the Vetenskapsakademien, Helsinki (1946), the Det kungliga vetenskapliga Sallskapet, Uppsala (1951), the Societas scientiarum Islandica, Reykjavik (1959), and the New York Academy of Sciences (1960). He received the Grand Prix of the Académie des Sciences, Paris (1916), the Kungliga Fysiografiska Sallskapets Gold Medal (1916), the Ole Romer Medal (1954), and the Vitus Bering Medal (1958). Finally let us look at Norlund's character [1]:- Nobody who met Norlund could doubt that he was a great personality, a conclusion in keeping also with his tall aristocratic stature. He was a man of few words, not immediately obliging to strangers, and even his closer collaborators often felt his taciturnity embarrassing. This coolness could be felt as an aloofness; maybe it was due to some sort of shyness, but on the other hand his words thus gained more importance and one could feel how he exerted himself to find the right solution to problems. Students or employees who came closer to him could rejoice at his warm-hearted interest, but as an administrator he could be severe. Maybe that was necessary in his position ... Article by: J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Niels Erik Nørlund's Timeline | 1885 | October 26, 1885 | Slagelse, Sjælland, Danmark (Denmark) | | | 1981 | July 4, 1981 Age 95 | København, Hovedstaden, Danmark (Denmark) |
