=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ethiopia's parliament removes Tigray rebel party from terror list]
Mar 22, 2023 · Ethiopia's parliament on Wednesday removed the rebel Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) from an official list of terrorist groups, a key step in the peace process following the two-year ...
URL: https://www.france24.com/en/africa/20230322-ethiopia-s-parliament-removes-tigrayan-rebel-party-from-terror-list

[Ethiopia takes Tigray's TPLF party off terrorism list | Reuters]
Mar 22, 2023 · Ethiopia's parliament on Wednesday removed the Tigray region's main political movement from a list of terrorist organizations, a major step towards establishing an interim local government after a ...
URL: https://www.reuters.com/world/africa/ethiopia-removes-terrorist-designation-dominant-tigray-party-2023-03-22/

[Ethiopia Removes TPLF Tigray Party From Terror List After Cease-Fire]
Mar 22, 2023 · Ethiopian lawmakers agreed to remove the Tigray People’s Liberation Front’s designation as a terrorist group, following a cease-fire signed four months ago to end a civil war.
URL: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-03-22/ethiopia-removes-tigray-party-from-terror-list-after-cease-fire

[Ethiopian lawmakers remove Tigray group from terror list]
Ethiopian lawmakers have removed the Tigray Peoples Liberation Front from the country's list of designated terror groups more than four months after a peace agreement ended a conflict that killed hundreds of thousands of people.
URL: https://apnews.com/article/ethiopia-tigray-conflict-war-politics-0879d50666ccda2890dbced37867ddd5

[Tigray People's Liberation Front]
... Tigray region." After the signed peace agreement matured for four months, the TPLF was removed from the country's list of terrorist group on March 22, 2023.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tigray_People%27s_Liberation_Front


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ethiopia's parliament removes Tigray rebel party from terror list] ---
Ethiopia's parliament removes Tigray rebel party from terror list Ethiopia's parliament on Wednesday removed the rebel Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) from an official list of terrorist groups, a key step in the peace process following the two-year conflict in the country's north. "The house has approved the decision to lift the TPLF's terrorist designation with a majority vote," the parliament said on Facebook. The move will strengthen the November 2022 peace deal between the TPLF and the federal government, it said. "It was remarked during the discussion of the draft decision that lifting TPLF's terrorist designation is indispensable to uphold the peace agreement held between the federal government and TPLF," it said. The TPLF, which once dominated Ethiopian politics, was officially designated a terrorist organisation in May 2021, six months after the war erupted. During the brutal conflict, the TPLF briefly came close to marching on the capital but was beaten back by forces loyal to Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. Under the terms of the peace deal signed in South Africa's capital Pretoria, the TPLF agreed to disarm in return for the restoration of access to Tigray, which was largely cut off from the outside world during the war. Since the deal, there has been some resumption of basic services and aid deliveries to Tigray, which has faced dire shortages of food, fuel, cash and medicines. Access to the region of six million people remains restricted, and it is impossible to verify independently the situation on the ground. The conflict broke out when the TPLF attacked military installations, setting off a major offensive by Abiy's government with backing from Eritrea. (AFP)


--- [Ethiopia takes Tigray's TPLF party off terrorism list | Reuters] ---
ADDIS ABABA, March 22 (Reuters) - Ethiopia's parliament on Wednesday removed the Tigray region's main political movement from a list of terrorist organizations, a major step towards establishing an interim local government after a two-year civil war. The Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), which led the northern region into war with the federal government in late 2020, was designated a terrorist group in May 2021. Sign up here. The conflict ended with a truce signed in Pretoria last November after tens of thousands of people were killed and millions forced from their homes. Ethiopia's parliament said in a statement that a majority of lawmakers had approved the delisting. The delisting is a prerequisite to the TPLF's participation in an interim government, which the party nominated its spokesman, Getachew Reda, last week to lead. Getachew did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Wednesday. Dessalegn Chanie, a lawmaker from the opposition National Movement of Amhara (NAMA), voted against delisting, accusing the TPLF of not fulfilling its commitments in the peace deal. "When it comes to disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, none of them are fulfilled," he told Reuters. "The federal government should guarantee to the public that TPLF won't wage another round of war. Ashebir Woldegiorgis, a lawmaker from Ethiopia's ruling party, said he backed the motion in the best interests of the country. "Despite all that happened, as a political institution we need to make a ruling and move forward," he said. "Today when we voted yes we never forgot our heroes and never betrayed them, we rather laid a foundation to keep their legacy alive." Reporting by Dawit Endeshaw; Writing by Bhargav Acharya; Editing by Hereward Holland and Andrew Cawthorne Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


--- [Ethiopia Removes TPLF Tigray Party From Terror List After Cease-Fire] ---
Ethiopia Takes Tigray Party Off Terror List After Cease-Fire - TPLF was designated as a terrorist group in May 2021 - AU brokered detente in November after two years of civil war This article is for subscribers only. Ethiopian lawmakers agreed to remove the Tigray People’s Liberation Front’s designation as a terrorist group, following a cease-fire signed four months ago to end a civil war. The House of People’s Representatives declared the TPLF a terrorist organization in May 2021, six months after its forces and federal troops began fighting in the northern Tigray region. The conflict drew in neighboring Eritrea and spilled over into Sudan. Almost 300,000 civilians died as a result of the two-year war, according to researchers at Ghent University in Belgium who’ve been monitoring the fallout.


--- [Ethiopian lawmakers remove Tigray group from terror list] ---
Ethiopian lawmakers remove Tigray group from terror list Ethiopian lawmakers remove Tigray group from terror list NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) — Ethiopian lawmakers have removed the Tigray Peoples Liberation Front from the country’s list of designated terror groups more than four months after a peace agreement ended a conflict that killed hundreds of thousands of people. Wednesday’s decision highlights the improving relations between federal officials and Tigray regional ones and moves the region closer to the establishment of an interim government. The TPLF dominated Ethiopian politics for close to three decades before Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed took office in 2018. The Tigray conflict began in late 2020. Most of Ethiopia’s 547 lawmakers voted to remove the TPLF from the terror list, with 61 objections and five abstentions, according to the state-run Ethiopian Broadcasting Corporation. The TPLF was added to the list in May 2012. Kindeya Gebrehiwot, a senior TPLF official, told The Associated Press the removal will be a “very good step in moving the peace agreement forward.” Ethiopia accused the TPLF of starting the conflict by attacking an army base in Tigray, while the TPLF accused the federal government of preparing to strike first. The peace agreement signed in November has led to the return of communications, banking and other basic services cut to the Tigray region of more than 5 million people. Ethiopia now faces a post-conflict reconstruction bill of $20 billion. Earlier this week, the United States said it had determined that all sides in the conflict committed war crimes and crimes against humanity. Ethiopia’s foreign ministry in a statement criticized the U.S. statement as “selective” and “inflammatory.”


--- [Tigray People's Liberation Front] ---
The Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF; Tigrinya: ህዝባዊ ወያነ ሓርነት ትግራይ, romanized: Həzbawi Wäyyanä Ḥarənnät Təgray, lit. 'Popular Struggle for the Freedom of Tigray'), also known as the Tigrayan People's Liberation Front, is a left-wing ethnic nationalist, paramilitary group, and a former ruling party of Ethiopia. It was classified as a terrorist organization by the Ethiopian government during the Tigray War until its removal from the list in 2023. In older and less formal texts and speech it is known as Woyane (Tigrinya: ወያነ, lit. 'Revolutionary') or Weyané (Amharic: ወያኔ). The TPLF was founded on February 18, 1975, in Dedebit, Tigray. Within 16 years, it grew from about a dozen men to become the most powerful armed liberation movement in Ethiopia. Unlike the Eritrean or Somali liberation fronts at the time, the TPLF did not seek independence from the Ethiopian state; instead, it aimed to overthrow the central government and implement its own version of the Ethiopian revolution. From 1989 to 2018, it led a political coalition, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF). It fought a 15-year-long war against the Derg regime, which was overthrown on 28 May 1991. The TPLF, with the support of the Eritrean People's Liberation Front (EPLF), overthrew the government of the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (PDRE) on May 28, 1991, and installed a new government that remained in power for decades. 
The new ruling EPRDF government, was dominated by the TPLF, who gradually consolidated control over Ethiopia's federal administrations, the ENDF, and key economic resources such as foreign aid, loans, and land leases, amassing billions. The TPLF's restructuring of Ethiopia into an ethnic federal state further fueled civil conflicts in the ensuing decades.
The TPLF lost control of the federal government in 2018. During the Tigray War that began in 2020, the National Election Board of Ethiopia terminated the party's legal status. In 2021, the Ethiopian House of Peoples' Representatives formally approved a parliamentary resolution designating the TPLF as a terrorist organization. On 2 November 2022, the African Union brokered a deal in Pretoria, South Africa, between the federal government and the TPLF to end the Tigray War. As per the peace agreement, the TPLF began disarming in January 2023. 
Following the Pretoria peace agreement in 2022, the TPLF began experiencing severe internal divisions. This has seen the rise of a hardline faction within the front.


