=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gloria Hemingway - Wikipedia]
Gloria Hemingway (born Gregory Hancock Hemingway, November 12, 1931 – October 1, 2001) was an American physician and writer who was the third and youngest child of author Ernest Hemingway.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gloria_Hemingway

[Gloria Hemingway | Military Wiki - Fandom]
Gloria Hemingway (born Gregory Hancock Hemingway, November 12, 1931 - October 1, 2001) was the third and youngest child of author Ernest Hemingway. A good athlete and a crack shot, Gloria longed to be a typical Hemingway hero and trained as a professional hunter in Africa. But her alcoholism prevented her gaining a license, as it also cost her her medical license in America. Gloria ...
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/Gloria_Hemingway

[35 Facts About Gloria Hemingway - FactSnippet]
10. The next year, Ernest Hemingway killed himself, and again Gloria wrestled with guilt over the death of a parent. 11. Gloria Hemingway obtained a medical degree from the University of Miami Medical School in 1964. 12.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-gloria-hemingway.html

[Remembering Our Dead - Gloria Hemingway (1 Oct 2001)]
Oct 1, 2001 · — Valerie (Hemingway) Danby-Smith Indeed, Gloria became a Doctor in the early 1964, graduating from Miami University School of Medicine, in hopes of curing herself of her own dysphoria, but what happened beforehand highlights how the medical industry failed her.
URL: https://tdor.translivesmatter.info/reports/2001/10/01/gloria-hemingway_miami-florida-usa_c94cccdf

[Gloria Hemingway - Wikiwand]
Gloria Hemingway (born Gregory Hancock Hemingway, November 12, 1931 – October 1, 2001) was an American physician and writer who was the third and youngest child of author Ernest Hemingway. Although she was born male and lived most of her life publicly as a man, she struggled with her gender identity from a young age.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Gloria%20Hemingway


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gloria Hemingway - Wikipedia] ---
Gloria Hemingway (born Gregory Hancock Hemingway, November 12, 1931 – October 1, 2001) was an American physician and writer who was the third and youngest child of author Ernest Hemingway. Although she was identified male at birth and lived most of her life publicly as a man, she struggled with her gender identity from a young age. In her 60s, she underwent gender transition surgery, and preferred the name Gloria when possible.
A good athlete and a crack shot, she longed to be a typical Hemingway hero and trained as a professional hunter in Africa, but her alcoholism prevented her from gaining a license, and it ultimately cost her her medical license in the United States, too. Hemingway maintained a long-running feud with her father, stemming from a 1951 incident when her arrest for entering a women's bathroom in a Los Angeles movie theater dressed in women's clothing caused an argument between Ernest and Pauline Pfeiffer, Gloria's mother. Pfeiffer died from a stress-related condition the following day, which Ernest blamed on Gloria.
In 1976, she authored a bestselling memoir of her father, Papa: A Personal Memoir, which was seen by some to reflect troubles of her own. These included wearing women's clothes, which she ascribed to gender dysphoria.




--- [Gloria Hemingway | Military Wiki - Fandom] ---
No content


--- [35 Facts About Gloria Hemingway - FactSnippet] ---
Gloria Hemingway maintained a long-running feud with her father, stemming from a 1951 incident when her arrest for entering a bar in drag caused an argument between Ernest and Gloria Hemingway's mother Pauline Pfeiffer. 35 Facts About Gloria Hemingway Gloria Hemingway dropped out of St John's College, Annapolis, after one year and worked for a time as an aircraft mechanic before moving to California in 1951. Ernest objected to 19-year-old Gloria Hemingway marrying, because of her financial and mental instability. In September 1951, Gloria Hemingway was arrested for entering a women's bathroom in a Los Angeles movie theater dressed in women's clothing. Pfeiffer called Ernest in Havana, and the two parents argued, with Gloria Hemingway recounting later that Ernest blamed Pauline for Gloria Hemingway's nature. Gloria Hemingway spent the next three years in Africa as an apprentice professional hunter but failed to obtain a license because of her drinking. Gloria Hemingway joined the United States Army as a private in October 1956 and served briefly. Gloria Hemingway was institutionalized for bipolar disorder, and received several dozen treatments with electroconvulsive therapy. Gloria Hemingway wrote her father a bitter letter, detailing the medical facts of her mother's death and blaming Ernest for the tragedy. The next year, Ernest Hemingway killed himself, and again Gloria wrestled with guilt over the death of a parent. Gloria Hemingway obtained a medical degree from the University of Miami Medical School in 1964. Gloria Hemingway practiced medicine in the 1970s and 1980s, first in New York and then as a rural family doctor in Montana, first in Fort Benton and later as the medical officer for Garfield County, based in Jordan, Montana. Gloria Hemingway dealt with bipolar disorder, alcoholism, and drug abuse for many years. When Gloria Hemingway was 12 years old, Ernest walked in on her dressed in her stepmother Martha Gellhorn's stockings, a near-daily activity at the time, and went berserk. Gloria Hemingway remarried Galliher in 1997 in Washington state, presenting as male since same-sex marriage in Washington was illegal at the time. Gloria Hemingway spoke at the dedication of the Hemingway-Pfeiffer Museum in her mother's family home in Piggott, Arkansas, when it opened on July 4,1999. Gloria Hemingway was increasingly seen in women's attire in public; yet, she frequented a local tavern dressed as a man, presented as what a patron called "just one of the guys", though they knew about her feminine identity and persona and were not bothered. On September 24,2001, Gloria Hemingway wore a black cocktail dress to a party and used the name Vanessa; she did not become drunk and was regarded as noticeably happy by friends, many who had never been introduced to her as a woman before. Gloria Hemingway stated that her gender-affirming surgery was the best thing she had ever done. Ernest said Gloria Hemingway had "the biggest dark side in the family except me". Gloria Hemingway wrote a short account of her father's life and their strained relationship, Papa: A Personal Memoir, that became a bestseller. Valerie included this text as the epigraph to her own tribute to Gloria Hemingway written two years after her death:. Gloria Hemingway was a Copy of Thomas Hudson, physically, reduced in scale and widened and shortened. Gloria Hemingway's skin freckled when it tanned and he had a humorous face and was born being very old. Gloria Hemingway was a devil too, and deviled both his older brothers, and he had a dark side to him that nobody except Thomas Hudson could ever understand. Gloria Hemingway was a little unbelievable and anyone could well have doubted his feats except that many people had seen him ride and watched him jump and seen his cold, professional modesty. Gloria Hemingway was a boy born to be quite wicked who was being very good and he carried his wickedness around with him transmuted into a sort of teasing gaiety. Gloria Hemingway was just being good while his badness grew inside him. Gloria Hemingway died on October 1,2001, of hypertension and cardiovascular disease in Miami-Dade Women's Detention Center. That day, Gloria Hemingway was due in court to answer charges of indecent exposure and resisting arrest without violence. Gloria Hemingway had been living in Florida for more than ten years. Gloria Hemingway is interred next to her father and half-brother Jack in the cemetery in Ketchum, Idaho. The media response to Gloria Hemingway's death has been condemned for not referring to her as "Gloria Hemingway" and for portraying gender variance as inherently pathological. Shortly after Gloria Hemingway died, the LGBT magazine The Advocate published an article discussing the coverage of her death. The children challenged the will that named Galliher as heir, claiming that Galliher was not legally Gloria Hemingway's widow given that Gloria Hemingway's home state of Florida did not recognize same-sex marriages.


--- [Remembering Our Dead - Gloria Hemingway (1 Oct 2001)] ---
Gloria Hemingway Age 69 (born 12 Nov 1931)1 Oct 2001 Miami, Florida (USA) Died in custody Gloria died in Miami-Dade Women’s Detention Center. Hemingway’s Transgender Daughter Dishonored in Death Gloria Hemingway’s story, for many transgender people, is all too familiar. Born in 1931, the youngest Daughter of famed author Ernest Hemingway remained locked in a lifelong battle of rejection, abandonment and consequentially became mired by alcoholism to cope with the extreme mental anguish she suffered. Her story is a tragedy, to be certain, and although she died alone in a jail cell back in 2001, what little media coverage she was offered in both life and death is rife with dead-naming, misgendering and headlines produced solely to induce shock. But during her life, Gloria sought only peace where none was to be had. From an early age, her gender expression was problematic for her Mother, Pauline and famous Father, who was well known for his machismo- the very picture of masculinity. According to Her childhood friend, Donald Junkins, Hemingway’s Father walked in on her as a child of just 10 years old wearing her Step-mother’s dress. Ernest went “Berserk” at the sight of it. It was just the beginning of what writer Nara Schoenberg describes as an ongoing “bloody psychological warfare” between the Father and trans daughter. Unable to meet the expectations of the gender she had been assigned at birth, Gloria fought for decades to push back the tide of dysphoria that consumed her life, including joining the Army in 1950. Hemingway married and divorced three times and re-married her last wife, Ida, after initially divorcing. But, it was a statement by her second wife, Valerie, that shed light on Hemingway’s painful journey to self acceptance and the consequences of being transgender in an era where little was understood about diversion from traditional gender roles. “All [her] life (Deadname Retracted) fought a losing battle against this crippling illness. [She] lacked critical early help because [her] parents were unable or unwilling to accept [her] condition nor could [she] come to terms with it [herself] for a long time, taking up the study of medicine in the hope that [she] would find a cure, or at least a solace. Failing that, [she] developed an alternate persona, a character into which [she] could retreat from the unbearable responsibilities of being, among other things, [her] father’s son, and of never ever measuring up to what was expected of [her], or to what [she] expected of [herself].” — Valerie (Hemingway) Danby-Smith Indeed, Gloria became a Doctor in the early 1964, graduating from Miami University School of Medicine, in hopes of curing herself of her own dysphoria, but what happened beforehand highlights how the medical industry failed her. Afflicted with severe depression and a desperate desire to meet social demands, she subjected herself to hundreds of electroshock therapy treatments in pursuit of peace according to Hemingway family biographer, Jeffrey Meyers. Her relationship with her now-distant father seemed damaged beyond repair, in fact, the elder Hemingway blamed Gloria for the death of her Mother, Pauline, believing the stress of Gloria’s “cross-dressing” which had caused a fight between her parents after one tedious phone call had killed her. Pauline suffered from an undiagnosed tumor in her adrenal gland. Gloria’s own medical knowledge led her to write a letter to her estranged Father in an effort to absolve herself of blame by explaining the condition that had actually resulted in her her death. She hoped, if he understood the reality of the condition Pauline suffered from, that her Father would want to reconcile. The next year, Ernest Hemingway committed suicide, leaving Gloria to wrestle with her guilt, forever mourning the Father lost to her because she could not be what he wanted her to be. There is a prominent through-line in the description of Gloria provided by those who knew her. “Kind.” “Gentle.” “Charming.” “Compassionate.” “I loved him and he was a good man,’’ His daughter Lorian Hemingway, whose own book Walk On Water was nominated for a Pulitzer, told Yahoo News in 2001. “He was a man of great compassion and self-searching, and he bore the necessary cross of being human. I believe the thing he wanted most of all was to please others and to be loved.’’ And Ida Mae Galliher, Gloria’s wife - twice - loved her. Having married her pre-transition and again two years post transition, the two stayed united until Gloria’s passing. She said of Gloria after her death, “He was so complicated. His best day, he was soft spoken, very generous, interested in what everybody had to say. He read a lot. On his bad days, when he was depressed, he was totally incapacitated. It was beddy-bye time for days at a time.” She concluded by sharing, “He suffered all his life. He just had this burden he couldn’t get rid of — his dark side.” Although Gloria’s timeline was pocked with crisis leading up to her untimely death in a jail cell in Miami-Dade Women’s Detention Center where she was booked for Public Indecency and Resisting Arrest without Violence, the impression of goodness persisted. Her arresting officer, Nelia Real said: “He said his name was Gloria. He looked like a man, but his nails were painted and he was wearing jewelry and makeup. He was very nice to me. At times he was very coherent, but other times he didn’t make any sense. He had no shoes and he had a dress and high heels in his hands. I feel really bad that that happened. He was a very nice guy.” It was this arrest just days before her death that led to the publicizing of her most famous -if not outrageous and inappropriate photo- taken while in custody by the Officers. There is no explanation as to why the authorities would produce or release a photo of an exposed transgender woman in their custody. Gloria completed her sexual reassignment surgery by 1994, at one point, while struggling with poverty, getting only one breast implant early on. Her relationship with her gender freedom was in constant conflict with her desire to be who others expected her to be- or those she perceived as needing her to be; The Son she could not be, the Husband she could not be, the Father of children she wanted to make proud rather than embarrassed or ashamed. Years after her stop/start transition began, both physically and socially, she still slipped back into the male presentation when she felt it was necessary or most appropriate for those she would be in the company of. It is clear, historically, that to Gloria, she was only ever a woman. Yet, the world outside of herself would never allow her to exist as one; Not in life, not in death. All articles and public records, including statements from family, friends, authorities and the general media refused to allow her the right to her own identity… with one academic article from the University of Michigan by Lynn Conway going as far as referring to her as “Him/Her” and claiming she was “addicted to fetishistic transvestism.” The article also criticizes her for having occasionally dressed in a masculine fashion post transition and warns the reader, “More proof that there are a group of people like Anne Lawrence who get modifications to their bodies with no interest in a social role. Many seem to be wealthy (especially “professionals,” i.e. doctors and lawyers) and in midlife crisis.” This year marks the 20th anniversary of the death of Gloria Hemingway, a beautiful, vibrant spirit according to most everyone who knew her, but a tormented soul who suffered the betrayal of her spirit by her body and was endlessly punished for it. She was buried in a small Ketchum, Idaho cemetery beneath a headstone that reads a male name. Her obituary bids farewell to a man with only a sidebar mention of her actual name but identifies her as He/Him. Her will, which awarded the bulk of her 7 million dollar estate to her Wife at the time of her death, Ida, was contested by her Eight children who claimed that if their Father was a woman, the will was not valid as same-sex relationships were not recognized by the state of Florida. Her children eventually settled with his widow. Even today, her truth is not honored nor is she offered the humane dignity she deserves in remembrance. As Gloria. https://phaylen.medium.com/hemingways-transgender-daughter-dishonored-in-death-9b56786a7f56 https://www.independent.co.uk/news/obituaries/gregory-hemingway-9194049.html https://aninjusticemag.com/hemingways-transgender-daughter-dishonored-in-death-9b56786a7f56


--- [Gloria Hemingway - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
