=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[VUB honorary doctorates for science communicator Ann Druyan, artist ...]
Nov 18, 2021 · Awards on the theme of connection VUB honorary doctorates for science communicator Ann Druyan, artist William Kentridge, politician Pierre Kompany, and immunotherapy experts Antoni Ribas and Thierry Boon Awards on the theme of connection Thursday, November 18, 2021 — Wednesday, November 17, 2021 - After a delay of a year-and-a-half due to the corona crisis, this week the Vrije Universiteit ...
URL: https://press.vub.ac.be/vub-honorary-doctorates-for-science-communicator-ann-druyan-artist-william-kentridge-politician-pierre-kompany-and-immunotherapy-experts-antoni-ribas-and-thierry-boon

[William Kentridge - Biography - Bernier / Eliades Gallery]
William Kentridge Born Johannesburg, South Africa, 1955 Education University Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa, 1973-76 Johannesburg Art Foundation, Johannesburg, South Africa, 1976-78 École Jacques LeCoq, Paris, France, 1981-82 Awards Honorary Doctorate, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 2021 Honorary Doctorate, Faculty of Humanities, University of Pretoria, South Africa, 2018 Penagos ...
URL: https://bernier-eliades.com/william-kentdirge-biography/

[William Kentridge]
2021 Honorary Doctor of Vrije Universiteit Brussel; 2022 Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from Columbia University; 2024 William Kentridge was awarded ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Kentridge

[VUB-eredoctoraten om de wereld te verbinden - Vrije Universiteit Brussel]
Nov 9, 2021 · Wednesday 17 November - 20.00 - De Munt After a delay of a year and a half due to the pandemic, on Wednesday 17 November the Vrije Universiteit Brussel will finally present the five honorary doctorates it awarded in 2020. The first of these titles goes to science writer Ann Druyan, the second to artist William Kentridge, the third to politician Pierre Kompany, and to Antoni Ribas and Thierry ...
URL: https://www.vub.be/nl/nieuws/vub-eredoctoraten-om-de-wereld-te-verbinden-1

[UWC Jointly Confers Honorary Doctorate on Will... | UWC]
Nov 19, 2021 · The University of the Western Cape’s (UWC) strategic partnership with two Belgian universities took another positive turn this week when renowned South African artist William Kentridge was awarded an honorary doctorate. Kentridge, together with American science writer Ann Druyan, Belgian politician Pierre Kompany, and world authorities in the field of immunotherapy in Antoni Ribas of the ...
URL: https://www.uwc.ac.za/about/international-relations/news-events/uwc-jointly-confers-honorary-doctorate-on-william-kentridge


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [VUB honorary doctorates for science communicator Ann Druyan, artist ...] ---
No content


--- [William Kentridge - Biography - Bernier / Eliades Gallery] ---
11 captures 02 Oct 2022 - 11 Dec 2025 Nov DEC Jan 11 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20251211125817/https://bernier-eliades.com/william-kentdirge-biography/ Loader Please wait while your request is being verified...


--- [William Kentridge] ---
William Kentridge (born 28 April 1955) is a South African artist best known for his prints, drawings, and animated films. He is especially noted for a sequence of hand-drawn animated films he produced during the 1990s, constructed by filming a drawing, making erasures and changes, and filming it again. He continues this process meticulously, giving each change to the drawing a quarter of a second's to two seconds' screen time. A single drawing will be altered and filmed this way until the end of a scene. These palimpsest-like drawings are later displayed along with the films as finished pieces of art.
Kentridge has created artwork as part of design of theatrical productions, both plays and operas. He has served as art director and overall director of numerous productions, collaborating with other artists, puppeteers and others in creating productions that combine drawings and multi-media combinations.


--- [VUB-eredoctoraten om de wereld te verbinden - Vrije Universiteit Brussel] ---
Wednesday 17 November - 20.00 - De Munt After a delay of a year and a half due to the pandemic, on Wednesday 17 November the Vrije Universiteit Brussel will finally present the five honorary doctorates it awarded in 2020. The first of these titles goes to science writer Ann Druyan, the second to artist William Kentridge, the third to politician Pierre Kompany, and to Antoni Ribas and Thierry Boon – world authorities in the field of immunotherapy, a ground-breaking approach to cancer. The presentation of the honorary doctorates is over. Would you like to look back at this successful evening? Check out our aftermovie (YouTube) and/or our photo album (Flickr). Connected The theme of the ceremony is “connecting”. That’s why the university awards each honorary doctorate with a partner institution, to emphasise its links with institutions in Brussels, Flanders and the world. VUB rector Caroline Pauwels: “The new honorary doctors come from a wide variety of sectors, but they have one thing in common: they connect. That’s what the world needs today, people reaching out to the other. People who look not for differences but for similarities. People who want to listen to each other.” For their exceptional friendship, which demonstrates that forgiveness and solidarity are possible even after disastrous events, Koenraad Tinel and Simon Gronowski will be honoured as well at this ceremony. They also were awarded an honorary doctorate in March last year: a joint title from VUB and ULB, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of VUB and the festive year 2019-2020. They were presented with this honorary doctorate at the Academic Opening in September 2020. The ceremony will be extra special as it takes place in the Royal Muntschouwburg and the renowned composer Dirk Brossé will perform as the guest conductor of the VUB Orchestra, led by Jurgen Wayenberg. Honorary Doctorates Ann Druyan With Erasmushogeschool Brussel Ann Druyan is an American writer and producer of popular programmes on cosmology and science. She was married to cosmologist and science communicator Carl Sagan, who died in 1996. Druyan was creative director of the Nasa Voyager Interstellar Message Project when Sagan had the now famous photo of the Pale Blue Dot taken: a picture of the Earth from 6 billion kilometres away. At that distance, the Earth is not much more than a dot the size of a pixel. Sagan realised the iconic value of such a picture: it symbolises the enormous size of space, puts into perspective the impact humanity has on the universe, and emphasises that we don't have a planet B. With this in mind, Druyan remains committed to science popularisation. She came up with Cosmos, a docuseries about the universe, the first series of which was broadcast worldwide on National Geographic. The new series, Cosmos: Possible Worlds, will be launched in dozens of countries on 9 March. Her belief is that as more people become interested in science, we will achieve a better, more critical society. William Kentridge With Ghent University and the University of the Western Cape, South Africa William Kentridge is a filmmaker, artist and sculptor. Though he was born in Johannesburg in 1955 to a white family, he was exposed from the beginning to the consequences of apartheid in his country. His father was a lawyer for Nelson Mandela, and Kentridge regularly refers in his work to this turbulent period in the history of his country. He is well known in Belgium. In 2005, he created a remarkable production of Mozart’s The Magic Flute for De Munt, and his piece Ubu and the Truth Commission was performed at Bozar. He also has a deep connection with KunstenFESTIVALdesArts. Pierre Kompany With the Brussels Parliament Everyone immediately associates him with his son Vincent, but Pierre Kompany is himself a special figure. Marked out by Mobutu’s regime in Congo, he arrived in Belgium in 1975 as an undocumented migrant. More than 40 years later he became the first black mayor of Belgium, in the Brussels municipality of Ganshoren. He is an indication that Belgium is gradually putting its colonial past behind it. He has never denied his origins, but speaks with great respect of the country he has made his home. Antoni Ribas and Thierry Boon With UZ Brussel Antoni Ribas is a world authority in the field of clinical research into immunotherapy, specifically for the treatment of malignant melanoma. He is one of the most referenced scientists in his field. Thierry Boon, a specialist in immunology, is emeritus professor at the Université Catholique de Louvain and former director of the Brussels branch of the Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and the Institut international de Pathologie cellulaire et molecular (Institut de Duve). He is an internationally recognised authority in the field of cancer research and has won numerous prestigious prizes, including the Francqui Prize (1990) and the Louis-Jeantet Prize (1994). Koenraad Tinel and Simon Gronowski With the Université libre de Bruxelles (ULB) Koenraad Tinel is a Belgian sculptor and artist. Simon Gronowski holds a doctorate in law, is a lawyer at the Brussels bar and a jazz pianist. The two men are close friends, which is perhaps surprising given their backgrounds. During World War Two, Gronowski escaped from the train that was taking him and his family to the extermination camp at Auschwitz when he was just 11. Tinel, meanwhile, grew up in a Flemish family who supported the Nazis. Their exceptional friendship is a powerful symbol of hope, happiness and peace. The presentation of the honorary doctorates is over. Would you like to look back at this successful evening? Check out our aftermovie (YouTube) and/or our photo album (Flickr).


--- [UWC Jointly Confers Honorary Doctorate on Will... | UWC] ---
The University of the Western Cape’s (UWC) strategic partnership with two Belgian universities took another positive turn this week when renowned South African artist William Kentridge was awarded an honorary doctorate. Kentridge, together with American science writer Ann Druyan, Belgian politician Pierre Kompany, and world authorities in the field of immunotherapy in Antoni Ribas of the University of California and scientist Thierry Boon Falleur of Belgium, were honoured by the Vrije Universiteit Brussels (VUB), UWC, Ghent University and other partner institutions on Wednesday, 17 November 2021. The joint honorary doctorate awarding emphasised the connection between the partner institutions - an important statement since the advent of COVID-19, given that cooperation and connection are even more necessary than before, according to a report on the VUB website. The ceremony in the iconic Royal Theatre of La Monnaie in Brussels was attended by UWC Rector and Vice-Chancellor, Professor Tyrone Pretorius, Registrar Dr Nita Lawton-Misra, and Institutional Planner Larry Pokpas, among others. Kentridge is one of the most celebrated artists in the world - working in film, theatre, opera as well as studio practice. Over a period of more than four decades, he has worked to oppose apartheid through his artistic work and cultural interventions. Working with an interdisciplinary network of scholars, artists, filmmakers, musicians and puppeteers, he has steadfastly connected the South African experience to the global struggle against the scourge of racism and environmental destruction. Prof Pretorius said UWC was proud to be able to confer the doctorate on Kentridge for many reasons. “When looking to confer this doctorate as a university community, we found so many connecting points between his life and the history of UWC that speaks to social justice and a society that is equitable and fair,” he said. “Furthermore, Mr Kentridge’s work inspired the formation of the Laboratory of Kinetic Objects in the Centre for Humanities Research (CHR) at UWC that enabled partnerships involving faculty and student researchers in the humanities and the world-famous Handspring Puppet Company. This ongoing effort has opened the door for several meaningful international exchanges and funding opportunities that serve to benefit UWC as a whole. “We also found that Mr Kentridge’s founding of the Centre for the Less Good Idea in 2016 was both a source of inspiration and symbolic of his life as an artist – that of collaboration and drawing others into creative spaces where ideas are shared, allowing them to be transformed and mutate into powerful expressions of art.” Director of UWC’s International Relations Office, Umesh Bawa, added: “The importance of this Joint Honorary doctorate to William Kentridge not only signals the strength of our continued collaborative scholarly strategic partnership with VUB and Ghent, but also deepens our commitment to a just and fair world, so aptly epitomised by his work. UWC-VUB-Ghent are together in service of humanity.” Kentridge an Important Resource for UWC According to a citation prepared by UWC for the honorary doctorate, Kentridge has been an indispensable resource as the University seeks to launch an arts inquiry that would lend itself to the ideal of a post-apartheid university. Most importantly, among the many flourishing arts projects, Kentridge's work inspired the formation of the Laboratory of Kinetic Objects. Kentridge's work was one of the inspirations that guided the proposal for an Andrew W. Mellon Chair in Aesthetic Theory and Material Performance held by Professor Jane Taylor at CHR. Prof Taylor's recent Chicago University Press book, Led by the Nose, based on Kentridge's Shostakovich opera, is accredited to UWC. Similarly, a generation of younger graduates and researchers are increasingly inspired by Kentridge to explore the altered states of the human sensorium in a world of rapidly expanding technological resources. Kentridge's production of the celebrated Ubu and the Truth Commission, co-written with Prof Taylor, was recently performed in a second iteration around the world that included CHR artist in residence, Mongi Mthombeni. The continued success of the production, which is taught widely as a text on the Truth Commission globally, lends itself to an interdisciplinary dialogue that is central to UWC's vision of building a post-apartheid university committed to reversing the emotional scars and effects of colonialism and apartheid. In 2017, Kentridge was invited by the CHR to deliver a lecture on the artist's studio as a site of creation, at the international meeting of the Consortium for Humanities Centres and Institutes, to an audience of more than 300 leaders of humanities initiatives. Recently, Kentridge has invited and supported a next generation of artists such as the jazz musician Kyle Shepherd, Ilze Wolff, architect and former research fellow at the CHR, and UWC Artist in Residence, Tony Miyambo through his Centre for the Less Good Idea. Shepherd, Wolff and Miyambo are each considered major interpretive voices of the South African condition locally and internationally.
