=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Syed Ali Shah Geelani]
Honours and awards On 14 August 2020, Pakistani President Arif Alvi conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan, Pakistan's highest civil award on Geelani to recognise his ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syed_Ali_Shah_Geelani

[President Alvi confers Nishan-e-Pakistan on Syed Ali Geelani]
ISLAMABAD, AUG 14 (DNA) : President Dr. Arif Alvi Friday conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan, the highest Civil Award of the country, on the veteran Kashmiri Hurriyat leader, Syed Ali Geelani on Pakistan's Independence Day for his services and sacrifices in the Kashmiris' ongoing struggle for securing their right to self-determination.
URL: https://islamabadpost.com.pk/president-alvi-confers-nishan-e-pakistan-on-syed-ali-geelani/

[Nishan-e-Pakistan Award conferred upon Kashmiri leader Syed Ali Shah ...]
Aug 14, 2020 — Pakistan conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan Award upon Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani on Independence Day, August 14. The prestigious award was ...
URL: https://www.geo.tv/latest/302735-nishan-e-pakistan-award-conferred-upon-syed-ali-shah-gilani

[President Says It Was Honour To Confer Nishan-i-Pakistan ... - UrduPoint]
On Pakistan 's 74th Independence Day, the president had conferred Nishan-i-Pakistan, Pakistan 's highest civil award, on noted Kashmiri leader Syed Ali Geelani in a ceremony at the Aiwan e Sadr to recognize his decades-old struggle for Kashmiris' right to self-determination.
URL: https://www.urdupoint.com/en/pakistan/president-says-it-was-honour-to-confer-nishan-1002613.html

[Syed Ali Shah Geelani]
Dec 25, 2022 — Honours and awards On 14 August 2020, Pakistani President Arif Alvi conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan, Pakistan's highest civil award on Geelani to ...
URL: https://en.bharatpedia.org/wiki/Syed_Ali_Shah_Geelani


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Syed Ali Shah Geelani] ---
Syed Ali Shah Geelani (29 September 1929 – 1 September 2021) was a separatist leader active in separatist insurgency of the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. A pro-Pakistan separatist, he is regarded as the father of the Kashmir resistance movement.
He was a member of Jamaat-e-Islami Kashmir since 1953, and was regarded as one of its most significant leaders. Geelani was also a three-time Member of the Legislative Assembly from the Sopore constituency, elected on a Jamaat-e-Islami ticket in 1972, 1977 and in 1987.




--- [President Alvi confers Nishan-e-Pakistan on Syed Ali Geelani] ---
ISLAMABAD, AUG 14 (DNA) : President Dr. Arif Alvi Friday conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan, the highest Civil Award of the country, on the veteran Kashmiri Hurriyat leader, Syed Ali Geelani on Pakistan’s Independence Day for his services and sacrifices in the Kashmiris’ ongoing struggle for securing their right to self-determination. Nishan-e-Pakistan was conferred on Syed Ali Geelani during a prestigious flag hoisting ceremony at the President House in Islamabad. The award was received by the Hurriyat AJK leaders on behalf of Syed Ali Geelani. In the award giving ceremony, today, glowing tributes were paid to Syed Ali Geelani for his unwavering commitment, dedication and leadership and his role in exposing Indian atrocities, suppressive measures and human rights violations in occupied Kashmir. Also, concern was expressed over continued unjustified house arrest of the veteran Hurriyat leader in frail health at the age of 90 years. Addressing the ceremony, Dr. Arif Alvi said, “Pakistan will not leave Kashmiris alone. The Kashmir issue has been debated at the UN Security Council for four times during the last one year, which is a big success of Pakistan’s foreign policy. “Pakistan has also released its political map, reflecting true aspirations of its people as well as Kashmiris. The new map shows Pakistan’s principled stance on Kashmir issue.”


--- [Nishan-e-Pakistan Award conferred upon Kashmiri leader Syed Ali Shah ...] ---
August 14, 2020 Pakistan conferred Nishan-e-Pakistan Award upon Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani on Independence Day, August 14. The prestigious award was received by Hurriyat leaders at the Aiwan-e-Sadr Friday on behalf of Geelani. Geelani was born in the Bandipora area of northern Kashmir on September 29, 1929. A staunch advocate of Kashmiris' right to self-determination, he has been the leading voice against Indian oppression and injustice in the occupied valley. The Hurriyat Conference, an umbrella organisation formed in 1993 by various pro-freedom groups in Kashmir, provides a political platform for voices that wish to rid the area of Indian occupation. However, there was a split in the group in 2003 with Geelani leading a separate faction that was in favour of accession to Pakistan. The split formed when Geelani walked out after another group decided to hold talks with New Delhi. Geelani was elected chairman for life of his Hurriyat group, which comprises 24 constituent parties. The other faction is led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who has been under house arrest since August last year. Both Hurriyats used to regularly issue statements and protest programmes against the Indian leadership. Pakistan is celebrating Independence Day today. In his message, President Alvi stated that the country was observing it as the "Kashmir Solidarity Day" in light of India's illegal attempt at the annexation of the occupied territory. On his Independence Day message, President Alvi reassured Pakistanis that the people of occupied Kashmir will get their right to self-determination. "I assure the resilient people of Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu & Kashmir that Pakistan will continue to support them in their just struggle for their Right to Self-Determination as enshrined in the United Nations Security Council resolutions," he said. Public and private buildings as well as streets bazaars and markets have been profusely illuminated. National flags, buntings, portraits of founding fathers, posters and banners are also seen everywhere as part of the celebration of Independence Day. "We need to stand united to meet the social, economic and security challenges being confronted by the nation,” the president said. Prime Minister Imran Khan in his message also congratulated the entire nation on 74th Independence Day. “During past seven decades of our journey, we have confronted with various challenges. We have battled against odds both at external as well as internal fronts. From the hostility of a neighboring country, with its known hegemonic intentions, to the scourge of terrorism and from coping with natural calamities to fighting pandemics, our nation has always shown resilience and perseverance,” said PM Imran. “While we celebrate this Independence Day, our hearts are profoundly grieved by the sufferings of our brethren in Indian occupied Kashmir who are facing military siege since past one year. We stand firmly behind our Kashmiri brethren in their struggle for their right to self-determination,” said PM Imran.


--- [President Says It Was Honour To Confer Nishan-i-Pakistan ... - UrduPoint] ---
President Says It Was Honour To Confer Nishan-i-Pakistan Award On Geelani Mohammad Ali (@ChaudhryMAli88) 5 months ago Sat 15th August 2020 | 11:10 PM ISLAMABAD, (UrduPoint / Pakistan Point News - 15th Aug, 2020 ) :President Dr Arif Alvi Saturday said that it was an honour to present Nishan-i-Pakistan award to Kashmiri leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani for his life long struggle for the rights of the people of Indian Illegally Occupied Jammu and Kashmir (IIOJK). On his twitter account, the president further posted "A tribute through him also to the people of IIOJK. I wish I could have done it in person". On Pakistan's 74th Independence Day, the president had conferred Nishan-i-Pakistan, Pakistan's highest civil award, on noted Kashmiri leader Syed Ali Geelani in a ceremony at the Aiwan e Sadr to recognize his decades-old struggle for Kashmiris' right to self-determination. Related Topics Recent Stories Infinix Unveils Noise Cancelling XE18 true wireles .. OPPO Gears Up to Launch Reno5 in Pakistan Setting .. China reports 33 new COVID-19 infections UAE Press: An exceptional leader who instilled a c .. Global coronavirus cases cross 84.65 million Gold Rate In Pakistan, Price on 4 January 2021 More Stories From Pakistan - India blinding Kashmiris as world observes 'Braille day' 2 minutes ago - Senator Faisal Javed urges opposition to play constructive role 42 minutes ago - Exemplary punishment to be given those found guilty in Islamabad, Mach incident: Sheikh Rasheed 1 hour ago - Maulana using seminaries' students for political purpose: Sheikh Rashid 12 hours ago - PDM using seminary children to protect ill-gotten money of its leaders: Murad 12 hours ago - Participation in exams must to promote in next classes: Shafqat 12 hours ago - Participation in exams must to promote in next classes: Shafqat 13 hours ago - PDM using seminary children to protect ill-gotten money of its leaders: Murad 13 hours ago - SSP orders to submit car theft incident report in 5 days 13 hours ago - Balochistan reports 29 more Covid-19 positive cases 14 hours ago - 1 killed, 4 injured in road accident 14 hours ago - Khattak asks opposition to stop hollow threats of resignations 14 hours ago Education - Urdu News - Car Prices - Breaking News - English News - Live Tv Channels - Urdu Horoscope - Horoscope in Urdu - Muslim Names in Urdu - Urdu Poetry - Love Poetry - Sad Poetry - Prize Bond - Mobile Prices in Pakistan - PTV Sports - English to Urdu - Big Ticket - Translate English to Urdu - Ramadan Calendar - Prayer Times - DDF Raffle - Islamic Calendar - Events - Today Islamic Date - Travel - UAE Raffles - Travel Guide - Arabic - Urdu Cooking Recipes - Directory - Pakistan Results - Past Papers - BISE - Schools in Pakistan - Academies & Tuition Centers UrduPoint Network is the largest independent digital media house from Pakistan, catering the needs of its users since year 1997. We provide breaking news, Pakistani news, International news, Business news, Sports news, Urdu news and Live Urdu News © 1997-2021, UrduPoint Network All rights of the publication are reserved by UrduPoint.com. Reproduction without proper consent is not allowed.


--- [Syed Ali Shah Geelani] ---
No content
