=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Papa Nihil | Ghostpedia | Fandom]
Papa Nihil, formerly known as "Papa Emeritus Zero", is a member of The Clergy, and was the frontman of Ghost during the Seven Inches of Satanic Panic cycle in 1969 (fictionally). His lineage involving the Papas is not fully understood and can be explained here. He was first revealed in 2017 to introduce the Prequelle era. He has since become a notable part of Ghost's lore. As of current, Papa ...
URL: https://thebandghost.fandom.com/wiki/Papa_Nihil

[A Pale Tour Named Death - Wikipedia]
A Pale Tour Named Death was a concert tour by the Swedish rock band Ghost in support of their fourth studio album, Prequelle. [1] Before the tour had been announced, two arena shows in Los Angeles, California, and New York City had been announced. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Pale_Tour_Named_Death

[Imperatour | Ghostpedia | Fandom]
... Papa Nihil that died the previous tour, being revived to play the saxophone during "Miasma". It is Ghost's most-documented tour to date. Imperatour started ...
URL: https://thebandghost.fandom.com/wiki/Imperatour

[Ghost: A Pale Tour Named Death 11/06/2018 - Revenant Media]
Nov 18, 2025 · Cardinal Copia even paid tribute to Papa Emeritus I by stalking back and forth on stage wielding his trusty thurible, that big, swinging incense burner. Papa Nihil made a special appearance during Miasma with a blistering saxophone solo before nearly collapsing on stage and having the be carried off by the band’s tour manager.
URL: https://revenantmedia.com/2018/11/07/ghost-a-pale-tour-named-death-11062018/

[GHOST To Hold Special Exhibit Looking At Their Brief Career In 1969]
Jan 30, 2023 · The event looks at Ghost 's massively influential but short-lived 1969 iteration fronted by Papa Nihil, its sleeper TikTok hit "Mary On A Cross" nearly five decades later, and its now-legendary ...
URL: https://metalinjection.net/news/ghost-to-hold-special-exhibit-looking-at-their-brief-career-in-1969


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Papa Nihil | Ghostpedia | Fandom] ---
Papa Nihil, formerly known as "Papa Emeritus Zero", is a member of The Clergy, and was the frontman of Ghost during the Seven Inches of Satanic Panic cycle in 1969 (fictionally). His lineage involving the Papas is not fully understood and can be explained here. He was first revealed in 2017 to introduce the Prequelle era. He has since become a notable part of Ghost's lore. Appearance[] As of current, Papa Nihil is a very elderly man, often employing the use of a walking cane or breathing mask from time to time. His skull facepaint is somewhat smudged, while his shoulder length hair has grayed completely and is slightly messy. Unlike his sons, who all have one white iris, both of his eyes are completely clouded white, most likely as a result of old age. He is mostly seen wearing a white chasuble. After his death on "A Pale Tour Named Death" he has since appeared as a blue ghost figure, but revived life in his body. During his time as the frontman of the band in 1969, Papa Nihil had a fuller and more refined skull facepaint, and medium-length black hair. He sported an all-black outfit, complemented by a Grucifix necklace. History[] Likely born sometime in the 1940s (fictionally), Papa Nihil alongside his sister Marika, his three other brothers, and speculated unnamed sister lived in eastern Europe. After Marika met Sister Imperator, she joined in on their family circus and the two grew close in the 1960s. After his father died in a fire, Sister and him moved to America. They grew as a couple despite lying between the two of them, and after a disagreement between one another, Sister Imperator lured him back through an invite ("Dance Macabre" music video) and the two formed the band Ghost (and presumably the Clergy) based on Sister Imperator's religious trauma. He began to perform his EP Seven Inches of Satanic Panic in the western US in 1969, but after he was caught kissing an audience member ("Kiss the Go-Goat" music video), Sister Imperator ultimately ended both the band and their relationship. It is assumed the contents of the "Mary On A Cross" music video happened after the "Kiss the Go-Goat" incident, however could have been done before due to their complicated love life. After which, he would have likely recorded "The Future Is A Foreign Land". His time afterward their relationship abruptly ended is highly unknown and up for speculation. It was not until September 30, 2017 that Papa Nihil (then known as Papa Emeritus 0) would officially reveal his role within the band. After Papa Emeritus III's removal on-stage during "Monstrance Clock", he introduced the new era of Ghost by saying, "The party is over. The middle ages have begun" in Latin. This led to interregnum for the band (not the Clergy) until Sister's son, Cardinal Copia (now Frater Imperator), uptook the fronting duties of Prequelle despite his dislike. Within the Chapter episodes on YouTube, he continues a complicated love/hate relationship with Sister Imperator while managing the Clergy. On April 30, 2018 in episode "Chapter Three: Back On The Road", it is shown that he helped coordinated the deaths of Papa Emeritus I, II, and III. He came back to live duties to perform "Miasma" live on saxophone. During this time of the Prequelle cycle, his EP was "finally" released 50 years later. At the last show of the A Pale Tour Named Death on March 3, 2020 in Mexico City, he passed away after his "Miasma" performance while Cardinal Copia ascended to the role of Papa Emeritus IV. At this point, Papa Nihil is then forth a ghost. During the Impera cycle, he was revived on the Imperatour to continue playing "Miasma" live. Alongside Sister Imperator and Mr. Psaltarian, he continuously hinted at something "ending" inside the Clergy, causing newly-ascended Papa Emeritus IV lots of distress. On April 7, 2023 for webisode episode "Chapter 17: Nap Time", he receives his newest coffin and a gold record award for his track "Mary On A Cross". Before the live show on September 11/12, 2023 at the Kia Forum, Papa Emeritus IV is finally told that Papa Nihil is indeed his father, with the mother being confirmed officially to be Sister Imperator. After the show, Sister passes away and passes the title of Head of the Clergy to her son, with Papa IV becoming Frater Imperator (which was revealed in the movie Rite Here Rite Now on June 20, 2024). Frater takes up charge within the Clergy as they await the new Papa he and Sister had chosen to succeed Frater. In 2025, it is revealed to be Nihil's other son Papa V Perpetua, who is Frater's unknown twin. Music videos for "Mary On A Cross" and "The Future Is A Foreign Land" were released on July 25, 2024. By June 11, 2025, all four of the comics for the "Sister Imperator" miniseries had been released and detail on his initial introduction to Sister and relation to the Psaltarians. Gallery[] Trivia[] - During the live performances of "Miasma", the Nameless Ghoul fans coined as Swiss/Multighoul would dress up as Papa Nihil and perform the saxophone solo despite the audio being on tape and not actually played. The mask used live was designed by Jerry Constantine. - Papa Nihil is portrayed by more than one person--In the Ghost chapters, An actor named Alan Ursillo plays his current self, while Justin Andrews plays his younger self as he appears in visions. Justin also plays NIhil's younger self in the music videos for "Dance Macabre", "Mary on a Cross", and "Kiss the Go-Goat".


--- [A Pale Tour Named Death - Wikipedia] ---
A Pale Tour Named Death was a concert tour by the Swedish rock band Ghost in support of their fourth studio album, Prequelle. Before the tour had been announced, two arena shows in Los Angeles, California, and New York City had been announced. The official tour was announced on 11 June 2018. It began on 9 September 2018 at the Royal Albert Hall in London, England, and concluded on 3 March 2020 at the Palacio de los Deportes in Mexico City, Mexico; the latter concert was dubbed A Final Gig Named Death.


--- [Imperatour | Ghostpedia | Fandom] ---
1 capture 03 Dec 2024 Nov DEC Jan 03 2023 2024 2025 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20241203084213/https://thebandghost.fandom.com/wiki/Imperatour Ghostpedia Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The Ministry The Ministry HQ The Clergy Sister Imperator Papa Emeritus Nihil Grucifix Mummy Bucks The Band Members Papa Emeritus IV Nameless Ghouls Recordings Sacred Psalms Opus Eponymous Infestissumam Meliora Prequelle IMPERA Minor Psalms If You Have Ghost Popestar Seven Inches Of Satanic Panic Phantomime Ritual Recordings Ceremony and Devotion Tourography Lyrics The Others Papa Emeritus Papa Emeritus II Papa Emeritus III Mr. Saltarian Dusty Comstock Father Jim DeFroque Live Upcoming Tour Dates Veneration of Relics Past Tours Setlists FANDOM Fan Central BETA Games Anime Movies TV Video Wikis Explore Wikis Community Central Start a Wiki Don't have an account? Register Sign In Advertisement Sign In Register Ghostpedia 125 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts The Ministry The Ministry HQ The Clergy Sister Imperator Papa Emeritus Nihil Grucifix Mummy Bucks The Band Members Papa Emeritus IV Nameless Ghouls Recordings Sacred Psalms Opus Eponymous Infestissumam Meliora Prequelle IMPERA Minor Psalms If You Have Ghost Popestar Seven Inches Of Satanic Panic Phantomime Ritual Recordings Ceremony and Devotion Tourography Lyrics The Others Papa Emeritus Papa Emeritus II Papa Emeritus III Mr. Saltarian Dusty Comstock Father Jim DeFroque Live Upcoming Tour Dates Veneration of Relics Past Tours Setlists Imperatour Sign in to edit History Talk (0) The Imperatour is the current, ongoing Ghost ritual tour in support of their latest release, IMPERA. See Also [ ] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperatour Advertisement Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab


--- [Ghost: A Pale Tour Named Death 11/06/2018 - Revenant Media] ---
Ghost A Pale Tour Names Death November 6th, 2018 Orpheum Theater Omaha, Nebraska What an absolutely delicious set. Tonight would mark my 5th time seeing Ghost since the band’s Omaha debut during the 2013 Hail to the King tour with Avenged Sevenfold and Deftones. Talking to other fans, I was in the minority though. One group I spoke with had seen the band’s last 4 shows, and they’d lost track of how many times they’ve seen the band live. Others had traveled as far as Minot, North Dakota for tonight’s show. To regard this performance as anything less than spectacular would be a gross understatement, and still doesn’t entirely convey the attention to detail and superb level of showmanship that Cardinal Copia, the Ghouls and the Ghoulettes put into their live shows. Cardinal Copia even paid tribute to Papa Emeritus I by stalking back and forth on stage wielding his trusty thurible, that big, swinging incense burner. Papa Nihil made a special appearance during Miasma with a blistering saxophone solo before nearly collapsing on stage and having the be carried off by the band’s tour manager. Copia had a special message for the crowd, one that more than a few needed to hear. While tonight’s show may be a high point for so many, he addressed and acknowledged the fact that tonight, even at the concert, may be a low point for some. “You may might be all peachy tonight. Everything is great. Or you might be kinda low, not peachy. Just remember that things change. Everything changes. You might get a cut on your finger, and sonova bitch it might hurt like Hell for a few days or weeks, but eventually you look down and see a scar and notice it doesn’t hurt anymore. The scar is there and it always will be, but the pain has faded. Does that make sense? Do you understand what I’m trying to say?” Yes, Cardinal, we do. A Pale Tour Named Death also allowed the band to highlight even more tracks of Prequelle. Witch Image, and Life Eternal were all added to the tour’s setlist. Idolatrine off of Infestissumam would also have its live debut during this tour. Setlist: Act 1 Klara stjärnor (Intro song) Miserere Mei, Deus (Intro song) Ashes Rats Absolution Idolatrine Ritual Con Clavi Con Dio Per Aspera ad Inferi Devil Church Cirice Miasma (Papa Nihil on saxophone solo) Jigolo Har Megiddo (acoustic) Pro Memoria Witch Image Life Eternal Act 2: Masked Ball (intro song) Spirit From the Pinnacle to the Pit Majesty Satan Prayer Faith Year Zero Spöksonat He Is Mummy Dust If You Have Ghosts (Rocky Erikson cover) Dance Macabre Square Hammer Encore: Monstrance Clock The Host of Seraphim (exit song)


--- [GHOST To Hold Special Exhibit Looking At Their Brief Career In 1969] ---
Metal Myths has teamed up with Ghost for a special one-off pop-up event this Wednesday titled Ghost—Reverence & Resurrection. The event looks at Ghost's massively influential but short-lived 1969 iteration fronted by Papa Nihil, its sleeper TikTok hit "Mary On A Cross" nearly five decades later, and its now-legendary September 13, 1969 show at the Whisky A Go Go. Ghost—Reverence & Resurrection will include Ghost's 1969 costumes and ghoul masks, rare magazine covers, and "a veritable treasure trove of ephemera on display for the first and possibly only time." The event will take place at the very same Whisky A Go Go on the Sunset Strip on Wednesday, February 1 starting at 4pm. For more information, check out the Whisky A Go Go website. And for those of you wondering when the fuck Ghost was around in 1969, here – the lore behind the band's 2019 EP Seven Inches Of Satanic Panic was that it was two songs "unearthed" from the 1969 version of Ghost. Given the popularity of "Mary On A Cross," Ghost has really been leaning into the "history" of the band, now including the Ghost—Reverence & Resurrection event. Ghost recently rolled out a new version of "Spillways" with Def Leppard vocalist Joe Elliott, though it's unclear if that has anything to do with their "Jesus Is Coming" teaser advertisement.
