=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Karl Polanyi - Wikipedia]
His theories eventually became the foundation for the economic democracy movement. Polanyi was active in politics, and helped found the National Citizens' Radical Party [hu] in 1914, serving as its secretary. He fled Hungary for Vienna in 1919 when the right-wing authoritarian regime of Admiral Horthy seized power.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_Polanyi

[Biography:Karl Polanyi - HandWiki]
In 1914, he helped found the National Citizens' Radical Party of Hungary and served as its secretary. Polanyi was a cavalry officer in the Austro-Hungarian Army in World War I, in active service at the Russian Front and hospitalized in Budapest. Polanyi supported the republican government of Mihály Károlyi and its Social Democratic regime.
URL: https://handwiki.org/wiki/Biography:Karl_Polanyi

[19 Facts About Karl Polanyi - FactSnippet]
3. Karl Polanyi is remembered best as the originator of substantivism, a cultural version of economics, which emphasizes the way economies are embedded in society and culture. 4. Karl Polanyi was active in politics, and helped found the National Citizens' Radical Party in 1914, serving as its secretary.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-karl-polanyi.html

[Karl Polanyi | Austrian economist, sociologist, philosopher | Britannica]
Karl Polanyi (born Oct. 25, 1886, Vienna, Austria—died April 23, 1964, Pickering, Ont., Can.) was an economic anthropologist and former Hungarian political leader. In college in Budapest Polanyi founded the radical Club Galilei, which would have far-reaching effects on Hungarian intellectual life. He qualified as a lawyer in 1912 and served as a cavalry officer during World War I. Once back ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Karl-Polanyi

[Karl Polanyi - New World Encyclopedia]
Karl Paul Polanyi (October 21, 1886 - April 23, 1964) was a Hungarian intellectual known for his opposition to traditional economic thought and his influential book, The Great Transformation. He argued that prior to the nineteenth century, the economic system in human society was not based on market principles of exchange but rather on relationships of reciprocity and redistribution, based ...
URL: https://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Karl_Polanyi


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Karl Polanyi - Wikipedia] ---
Karl Paul Polanyi (; Hungarian: Polányi Károly [ˈpolaːɲi ˈkaːroj]; 25 October 1886 – 23 April 1964) was an Austro-Hungarian economic historian, economic sociologist, and politician, best known for his book The Great Transformation, which questions the conceptual validity of self-regulating markets.
In his writings, Polanyi advances the concept of the Double Movement, which refers to the dialectical process of marketization and push for social protection against that marketization. He argues that market-based societies in modern Europe were not inevitable but historically contingent. Polanyi is remembered best as the originator of substantivism, a cultural version of economics, which emphasizes the way economies are embedded in society and culture. This opinion is counter to mainstream economics but is popular in anthropology, economic history, economic sociology and political science.
Polanyi's approach to the ancient economies has been applied to a variety of cases, such as Pre-Columbian America and ancient Mesopotamia, although its utility to the study of ancient societies in general has been questioned. Polanyi's The Great Transformation became a model for historical sociology. His theories eventually became the foundation for the economic democracy movement.
Polanyi was active in politics, and helped found the National Citizens' Radical Party in 1914, serving as its secretary. He fled Hungary for Vienna in 1919 when the right-wing authoritarian regime of Admiral Horthy seized power. He fled Vienna for London in 1933 when Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany and fascism was ascendant in Austria. After years of unsuccessfully seeking employment at universities in the United Kingdom, he moved to the United States in 1940 where he joined the faculty at Bennington College and later taught at Columbia University.




--- [Biography:Karl Polanyi - HandWiki] ---
Biography:Karl Polanyi Karl Polanyi | | |---|---| Polanyi, c. 1918 | | | Born | 25 October 1886 | | Died | 23 April 1964 Pickering, Ontario, Canada | (aged 77) | Spouse(s) | Ilona Duczynska (m. 1923) | | Field | Economic sociology, economic history, economic anthropology, Philosophy | | School or tradition | Historical school of economics | | Influences | Robert Owen, Bronisław Malinowski, G. D. H. Cole, Richard Tawney, Richard Thurnwald, Karl Marx, Aristotle, Karl Bücher, Heinrich Schurtz, Ferdinand Tönnies, Adam Smith, Alfred Radcliffe-Brown, Werner Sombart, Max Weber, György Lukács, Carl Menger | | Contributions | Embeddedness, Double Movement, fictitious commodities, economistic fallacy, the formalist–substantivist debate (substantivism) | | Part of a series on | | Economic, applied, and development anthropology | |---| | Social and cultural anthropology | Karl Paul Polanyi (/poʊˈlænji/; Hungarian: Polányi Károly hu; 25 October 1886 – 23 April 1964)[1] was an Austro-Hungarian economic historian, economic sociologist, and politician,[2] best known for his book The Great Transformation, which questions the conceptual validity of self-regulating markets.[3] In his writings, Polanyi advances the concept of the Double Movement, which refers to the dialectical process of marketization and push for social protection against that marketization. He argues that market-based societies in modern Europe were not inevitable but historically contingent. Polanyi is remembered best as the originator of substantivism, a cultural version of economics, which emphasizes the way economies are embedded in society and culture. This opinion is counter to mainstream economics but is popular in anthropology, economic history, economic sociology and political science. Polanyi's approach to the ancient economies has been applied to a variety of cases, such as Pre-Columbian America and ancient Mesopotamia, although its utility to the study of ancient societies in general has been questioned.[4] Polanyi's The Great Transformation became a model for historical sociology. His theories eventually became the foundation for the economic democracy movement. Polanyi was active in politics, and helped found the National Citizens' Radical Party in 1914, serving as its secretary. He fled Hungary for Vienna in 1919 when the right-wing authoritarian regime of Admiral Horthy seized power. He fled Vienna for London in 1933 when Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany and fascism was on the ascendancy in Austria. After years of unsuccessfully seeking employment at universities in the United Kingdom, he moved to the United States in 1940 where he joined the faculty at Bennington College and later taught at Columbia University. Early life Karl Polanyi was born in Vienna and raised in Budapest by a German‑speaking Jewish family assimilating into the secular middle class.[5][6] His younger brother was Michael Polanyi, a philosopher, and his niece was Eva Zeisel, a world-renowned ceramist.[7] He was born in Vienna, at the time the capital of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.[8] His father, Mihály Pollacsek, was a railway entrepreneur. Mihály never changed the name Pollacsek, and is buried in the Jewish cemetery in Budapest. Mihály died in January 1905, which was an emotional shock to Karl, and he commemorated the anniversary of Mihály's death throughout his life.[9] Karl and Michael Polanyi's mother was Cecília Wohl. The name change to Polanyi was made by Karl and his siblings. Polanyi was well educated despite the ups and downs of his father's fortune, and he immersed himself in Budapest's active intellectual and artistic scene. Polanyi studied at the Minta Gymnasium.[10] Early career Polanyi founded the radical and influential Galileo Circle while at the University of Budapest, a club which would have far reaching effects on Hungarian intellectual thought. During this time, he was actively engaged with other notable thinkers, such as György Lukács, Oszkár Jászi, and Karl Mannheim. Polanyi graduated from Budapest University in 1912 with a doctorate in Law. In 1914, he helped found the National Citizens' Radical Party of Hungary and served as its secretary. Polanyi was a cavalry officer in the Austro-Hungarian Army in World War I, in active service at the Russian Front and hospitalized in Budapest. Polanyi supported the republican government of Mihály Károlyi and its Social Democratic regime. The republic was short-lived, with socialist Béla Kun toppling the Karolyi government to create the Hungarian Soviet Republic. Polanyi left Hungary for Vienna in order to undergo medical treatment. During this time, the Kun government was replaced by the right-wing authoritarian regime of Admiral Horthy.[11] As a consequence, Polanyi left Hungary permanently.[6][11] In Vienna From 1924 to 1933, he was employed as a senior editor of the prestigious Der Österreichische Volkswirt (The Austrian Economist) magazine. It was at this time that he first began criticizing the Austrian school of economics, which he felt created abstract models that lost sight of the organic, interrelated reality of economic processes. Polanyi himself was attracted to Fabianism and the works of G. D. H. Cole. It was also during this period that Polanyi first developed an interest in Christian socialism. Polanyi married the communist revolutionary Ilona Duczyńska, who was of Polish-Hungarian background. Their daughter Kari Polanyi Levitt carried on the family tradition of academic economic research. In London Polanyi was asked to resign from Der Oesterreichische Volkswirt because the liberal publisher of the journal could not keep on a prominent socialist after the accession of Hitler to office in January 1933 and the suspension of the Austrian parliament by the rising tide of clerical fascism in Austria. He left for London in 1933, where he earned a living as a journalist and tutor and obtained a position as a lecturer for the Workers' Educational Association in 1936. His lecture notes contained the research for what later became The Great Transformation. However, he would not start writing this work until 1940, when he moved to Vermont to take up a position at Bennington College. Polanyi had for many years sought employment at British universities but was unsuccessful.[6] The book was published in 1944, to great acclaim.[12] In it, Polanyi described the enclosure process in England and the creation of the contemporary economic system at the beginning of the 19th century. United States and Canada Polanyi joined the staff of Bennington College in 1940, teaching a series of five timely lectures on the "Present Age of Transformation".[13][14] The lectures "The Passing of the 19th Century",[15] "The Trend Towards an Integrated Society",[16] "The Breakdown of the International System",[17] "Is America an Exception?",[18] and "Marxism and the Inner History of the Russian Revolution"[19] took place during the early stages of World War II. Polanyi participated in Bennington's Humanism Lecture Series (1941)[20] and Bennington College's Lecture Series (1943) where his topic was "Jean Jacques Rousseau: Or Is a Free Society Possible?"[21] After the war, Polanyi received a teaching position at Columbia University (1947–1953). However, his wife, Ilona Duczyńska (1897–1978), had a background as a former communist, which made gaining an entrance visa in the United States impossible. As a result, they moved to Canada, and Polanyi commuted to New York City. In the early 1950s, Polanyi received a large grant from the Ford Foundation to study the economic systems of ancient empires. Having described the emergence of the modern economic system, Polanyi now sought to understand how "the economy" emerged as a distinct sphere in the distant past. His seminar at Columbia drew several famous scholars and influenced a generation of teachers, resulting in the 1957 volume Trade and Market in the Early Empires. Polanyi continued to write in his later years and established a new journal entitled Coexistence. In Canada he lived in Pickering, Ontario, where he died in 1964. Selected works - "Socialist Accounting" (1922) - "The Essence of Fascism" (1933–1934); article[22] - The Great Transformation (1944) - "Universal Capitalism or Regional Planning?", The London Quarterly of World Affairs, vol. 10 (3) (1945) - Trade and Market in the Early Empires (1957, edited and with contributions by others) - Dahomey and the Slave Trade (1966) - George Dalton (ed), Primitive, Archaic, and Modern Economics: Essays of Karl Polanyi (New York: Doubleday & Company, 1968); collected essays and selections from his work. - Harry W. Pearson (ed.), The Livelihood of Man (Academic Press, 1977) - Karl Polanyi, For a New West: Essays, 1919–1958 (Polity Press, 2014), ISBN 978-0745684444 - Gareth Dale (ed), Karl Polanyi: The Hungarian Writings (Manchester University Press, 2016) See also - Michael Polanyi (brother) - John Polanyi (nephew) - Eva Zeisel (cousin) Notes - ↑ Encyclopædia Britannica (Chicago: Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. 2003) vol 9. p. 554 - ↑ "Karl Polanyi | Hungarian politician | Britannica" (in en). https://www.britannica.com/biography/Karl-Polanyi. - ↑ "Karl Polanyi" (in en). https://www.oxfordreference.com/view/10.1093/oi/authority.20110803100333942. - ↑ Silver 2007. - ↑ Dale 2016, pp. 11, 17–18. - ↑ 6.06.16.2 Ferguson, Donna (2024-06-23). "'The greatest thinker you've never heard of': expert who explained Hitler's rise is finally in the spotlight" (in en-GB). The Observer. ISSN 0029-7712. https://www.theguardian.com/books/article/2024/jun/23/the-greatest-thinker-youve-never-heard-of-expert-who-explained-hitlers-rise-is-finally-in-the-spotlight. - ↑ Harrod 2012. - ↑ Dale 2016. - ↑ Dale 2016, p. 13. - ↑ Adelman, Jeremy (2017). "Polanyi, the Failed Prophet of Moral Economics". Boston Review. https://www.bostonreview.net/articles/jeremy-adelman-polanyi/. - ↑ 11.011.1 "The Elusive Karl Polanyi". 2017. https://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/elusive-karl-polanyi-great-transformation-gareth-dale-biography/. - ↑ Melegh, Attila; Szelényi, Iván (2016). "Polanyi Revisited. Introduction". Intersections. EEJSP 2 (2): 4–10. doi:10.17356/IEEJSP.V2I2.246. https://www.academia.edu/26364797. - ↑ Polanyi, Karl (1940). Karl Polanyi: Five Lectures on The Present Age of Transformation-Lecture Series Listing of Topics (Speech). Five Lectures on The Present Age of Transformation. Bennington College: Bennington College. hdl:11209/8502. - ↑ Leigh, Robert D. (25 September 1940), "Letter from President Robert Devore Leigh to Peter Drucker", Letter (Bennington College) - ↑ Polanyi, Karl (1940). The Passing of 19th Century Civilization (Lecture #1 of 5) (Speech). Bennington College. hdl:11209/8514. - ↑ Polanyi, Karl (1940). The Trend Towards an Integrated Society (Lecture #2 of 5) (Speech). Bennington College. hdl:11209/8515. - ↑ Polanyi, Karl (1940). The Breakdown of the International System (Lecture #3 of 5) (Speech). Bennington College. hdl:11209/8516. - ↑ Polanyi, Karl (1940). Is America an Exception? (Lecture #4 of 5) (Speech). Bennington College. hdl:11209/8517. - ↑ Polanyi, Karl (1940). Marxism and the Inner History of the Russian Revolution (Speech). Bennington College. hdl:11209/8518. - ↑ Boas, George; Fergusson, Francis; Patterson, Margaret; Chapman, Dwight; Hardman, Yvette; Kouwenhoven, John; Luening, Otto; Polanyi, Karl et al. (April 1941), Bennington College Humanism-Lecture Series Listing of Speakers and Topics, Bennington College - ↑ Polanyi, Karl; Fergusson, Francis; Mendershausen, Horst; d'Estournelles, Paul; Drucker, Peter F.; Hanks, Lucien; Forbes, John D. (1943), Bennington College Lecture Series, 1943 – Lecture Series Listing of Speakers and Topics, Bennington College - ↑ Polanyi, Karl (1935). Lewis, John; Polanyi, Karl; Kitchin, Donald K.. eds. "The Essence of Fascism". Christianity and the Social Revolution (London: Victor Gollancz Limited): 359–394. http://kpolanyi.scoolaid.net:8080/xmlui/handle/10694/565. References | Library resources about Karl Polanyi | | By Karl Polanyi | |---| - Block, Fred (2008). "Polanyi's Double Movement and the Reconstruction of Critical Theory". Revue Interventions économiques [En ligne] 38 (38). doi:10.4000/interventionseconomiques.274. - Dale, Gareth (2010), Karl Polanyi: The Limits of the Market, Polity, ISBN 978-0-7456-4072-3 - Dale, Gareth (2016), Reconstructing Karl Polanyi, Pluto Press, ISBN 978-0745335186 - Dale, Gareth (2016). Karl Polanyi : a life on the left. New York: Columbia University Press. ISBN 978-0-231-17608-8. OCLC 948826672. - Harrod, Tanya (15 January 2012). "Eva Zeisel obituary". The Guardian. https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2012/jan/15/eva-zeisel. - McRobbie, Kenneth, ed. (1994), Humanity, Society and Commitment: On Karl Polanyi, Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 1-895431-84-0, https://archive.org/details/humanitysocietyc0000unse - McRobbie, Kenneth; Polanyi-Levitt, Kari, eds. (2000), Karl Polanyi in Vienna: The Contemporary Significance of The Great Transformation, Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 1-55164-142-9, https://archive.org/details/karlpolanyiinvie0000unse - Mendell, Marguerite; Salée, Daniel (1991), The Legacy of Karl Polanyi: Market, State, and Society at the End of the Twentieth Century, St. Martins Press, ISBN 0-312-04783-5 - Polanyi-Levitt, Kari, ed. (1990), The Life and Work of Karl Polanyi: A Celebration, Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0-921689-80-2 - Silver, Morris (2007). "Redistribution and Markets in the Economy of Ancient Mesopotamia: Updating Polanyi". Antiguo Oriente 5: 89–112. https://repositorio.uca.edu.ar/handle/123456789/11939. - Stanfield, J. Ron (1986), The Economic Thought of Karl Polanyi: Lives and Livelihood, Macmillan, ISBN 0-333-39629-4 Further reading - Aulenbacher, Brigitte, et al. (ed.), Karl Polanyi, the life and works of an epochal thinker. Falter Verlag, 2020. - Block, Fred and Somers, Margaret, The Power of Market Fundamentalism : Karl Polanyi's Critique. Cambridge, Massachusetts : Harvard University Press, 2014. - Brie, Michael (ed.), Karl Polanyi in dialogue : a socialist thinker for our times, Montreal : Black Rose Books, 2017. - Brie, Michael and Thomasberger, Claus, Karl Polanyi's vision of a socialist transformation. Montreal : Black Rose Books, 2018. - Dale, Gareth, Karl Polanyi : a life on the left, New York : Columbia University Press, 2016. - Dale, Gareth, et al. (ed.), Karl Polanyi's political and economic thought : a critical guide. Newcastle upon Tyne : Agenda Publishing, 2019. - Dale, Gareth, Reconstructing Karl Polanyi : excavation and critique, London, England : Pluto Press, 2016. - Desai, Radhika and Polanyi Levitt, Kari, Karl Polanyi and twenty-first-century capitalism. Manchester : Manchester University Press, 2021. - Hann, Chris, Repatriating Karl Polanyi Market Society in the Visegrád States. Baltimore, Md. : Project MUSE, 2019. - Kuttner, Robert, "The Man from Red Vienna" (review of Gareth Dale, Karl Polanyi: A Life on the Left, Columbia University Press, 381 pp.), The New York Review of Books, vol. LXIV, no. 20 (21 December 2017), pp. 55–57. "In sum, Polanyi got some details wrong, but he got the big picture right. Democracy cannot survive an excessively free market; and containing the market is the task of politics. To ignore that is to court fascism." (Robert Kuttner, p. 57.) External links - Karl Polanyi Digital Archive - The Karl Polanyi Institute of Political Economy – The Karl Polanyi Institute of Political Economy at Concordia University web site. - Karl Polanyi Wiki - Karl Polanyi, The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our Time (1944) Review Essay by Anne Mayhew, College of Arts and Sciences, University of Tennessee - Profile on Karl Polanyi – On the History of Economic Thought Website - The free market is an impossible utopia (2014-07-18), The Washington Post. A conversation with Fred Block and Margaret Somers on their book, The Power of Market Fundamentalism: Karl Polanyi’s Critique (Harvard University Press, 2014). The book argues that the ideas of Karl Polanyi are crucial to help understand economic recessions and their aftermath. - [1] – Why Two Karls Are Better Than One: Integrating Polyani and Marx in a Critical Theory of the Current Crisis by Nancy Fraser - Ferguson, Donna (2024-06-23). "'The greatest thinker you've never heard of': expert who explained Hitler's rise is finally in the spotlight". https://www.theguardian.com/books/article/2024/jun/23/the-greatest-thinker-youve-never-heard-of-expert-who-explained-hitlers-rise-is-finally-in-the-spotlight. - Error in Template:Internet Archive author: Karl Polanyi doesn't exist. Template:Guild Socialism Template:Historical school economists


--- [19 Facts About Karl Polanyi - FactSnippet] ---
Karl Paul Polanyi was an Austro-Hungarian economic anthropologist, economic sociologist, and politician, best known for his book The Great Transformation, which questions the conceptual validity of self-regulating markets. 19 Facts About Karl Polanyi Karl Polanyi argues that market-based societies in modern Europe were not inevitable but historically contingent. Karl Polanyi is remembered best as the originator of substantivism, a cultural version of economics, which emphasizes the way economies are embedded in society and culture. Karl Polanyi was active in politics, and helped found the National Citizens' Radical Party in 1914, serving as its secretary. Karl Polanyi fled Hungary for Vienna in 1919 when the right-wing authoritarian regime of Admiral Horthy seized power. Karl Polanyi fled Vienna for London in 1933 when Adolf Hitler came to power in Germany and fascism was on the ascendancy in Austria. Karl Polanyi was born in Vienna, at the time the capital of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Karl Polanyi was well educated despite the ups and downs of his father's fortune, and he immersed himself in Budapest's active intellectual and artistic scene. Karl Polanyi founded the radical and influential Galileo Circle while at the University of Budapest, a club which would have far reaching effects on Hungarian intellectual thought. Karl Polanyi graduated from Budapest University in 1912 with a doctorate in Law. Karl Polanyi was a cavalry officer in the Austro-Hungarian Army in World War I, in active service at the Russian Front and hospitalized in Budapest. Karl Polanyi supported the republican government of Mihaly Karolyi and its Social Democratic regime. Karl Polanyi left Hungary for Vienna in order to undergo medical treatment. Karl Polanyi married the communist revolutionary Ilona Duczynska, of Polish-Hungarian background. Karl Polanyi was asked to resign from Der Oesterreichische Volkswirt because the liberal publisher of the journal could not keep on a prominent socialist after the accession of Hitler to office in January 1933 and the suspension of the Austrian parliament by the rising tide of clerical fascism in Austria. Karl Polanyi left for London in 1933, where he earned a living as a journalist and tutor and obtained a position as a lecturer for the Workers' Educational Association in 1936. Karl Polanyi had for many years sought employment at British universities but was unsuccessful. Karl Polanyi joined the staff of Bennington College in 1940, teaching a series of five timely lectures on the "Present Age of Transformation". Karl Polanyi continued to write in his later years and established a new journal entitled Coexistence.


--- [Karl Polanyi | Austrian economist, sociologist, philosopher | Britannica] ---
Karl Polanyi Karl Polanyi (born Oct. 25, 1886, Vienna, Austria—died April 23, 1964, Pickering, Ont., Can.) was an economic anthropologist and former Hungarian political leader. In college in Budapest Polanyi founded the radical Club Galilei, which would have far-reaching effects on Hungarian intellectual life. He qualified as a lawyer in 1912 and served as a cavalry officer during World War I. Once back home he founded the Radical Citizens Party of Hungary. He then had to leave Hungary for political reasons. After working in Vienna as an economic journalist (1924–33), he moved to England and then, in 1940, to the United States. He was professor of economics at Columbia University (1947–53). - In full: - Karl Paul Polanyi - Died: - April 23, 1964, Pickering, Ont., Can. (aged 77) - Subjects Of Study: - economic system - market - Dahomey - slave trade Polanyi was not a conventional economist but was instead concerned with the development of an overall view of the functioning of economic relationships within different social frameworks. This led him to detailed historical and anthropological studies. He produced three works based on the theme of the market economy as a special form of social organization. The Great Transformation (1944) concentrated on the development of the market economy in the 19th century, with Polanyi presenting his belief that this form of economy was so socially divisive that it had no long-term future. The second volume, Trade and Markets in the Early Empires (1957, written with others), concentrated on nonmarket forms of society. Polanyi developed a conceptual framework for what he regarded as nonmarket economies. His final work, published posthumously, was Dahomey and the Slave Trade (1966), which analyzed the economic structure of a slave-exporting state.


--- [Karl Polanyi - New World Encyclopedia] ---
Karl Polanyi Karl Paul Polanyi (October 21, 1886 – April 23, 1964) was a Hungarian intellectual known for his opposition to traditional economic thought and his influential book, The Great Transformation. He argued that prior to the nineteenth century, the economic system in human society was not based on market principles of exchange but rather on relationships of reciprocity and redistribution, based on his historical research of different societies. This analysis, while not accepted as valid within economics, made a significant contribution to anthropological inquiry, with its focus on the social and cultural environment. Polanyi's insight that economic processes are not causal but rather responsive to social change, though not entirely validated by his own somewhat flawed research, can be regarded as having merit. Biography In continental Europe Karl Paul Polanyi was born in Vienna, Austria, in 1886. His younger brother was Michael Polanyi, chemist and philosopher. The son of a prominent member of a Hungarian bourgeoisie, Polanyi was well educated despite the ups and downs of his father's fortune, and he immersed himself in Budapest's active intellectual and artistic scene. Karl Polanyi founded the radical and influential Galilei Circle while at the University of Budapest. During this time, he was actively engaged with other notable thinkers, such as Georg Lukács, Oscar Jászi, and Karl Mannheim. Polanyi earned his Ph.D. in philosophy in 1908, and graduated in law in 1912. In 1914, he helped found the Hungarian Radical Party and served as its secretary. He was a cavalry officer in the Austro-Hungarian army in World War I, but was discharged after an injury. After the war, he returned to Budapest where he became politically active once again. Polanyi supported the Republican government of Mihály Károlyi and its Social Democratic regime. When Béla Kun toppled the Karolyi government, Polanyi was forced to flee to Vienna. There he worked as a journalist, writing economic and political commentary for (among others) the prestigious Der Oesterreichische Volkswirt. It was at this time that he first began criticizing the Austrian school of economists, who he felt created abstract models which lost sight of the concrete reality of economic processes. Polanyi himself was attracted to Fabianism and the works of G.D.H. Cole. During this period, Polanyi also grew interested in Christian Socialism. In England and the United States Polanyi fled Austria in 1933, when the short-lived Austrian Republic began to collapse and the fascist influence began to grow. He moved to London, where he earned a living working as a journalist and tutor. Polanyi also conducted the bulk of his research for what would later become The Great Transformation. He did not start writing this work until 1940, however, when he moved to New York City to take up a position at Bennington College. It was published in 1944, to great acclaim. After the war, Polanyi received a teaching position at Columbia University. However, his wife's background as a former communist made gaining an entrance visa in the United States impossible. As a result, they moved to Canada, and Polanyi commuted to New York City. In the early 1950s, Polanyi received a large grant from the Ford Foundation to study the economic systems of ancient empires. His seminar in Columbia drew several famous scholars and influenced a generation of teachers, eventuating in the 1957 volume Trade and Market in the Early Empires. Polanyi continued to write in his later years and established a new journal, entitled Coexistence. He died in 1964, in Pickering, Ontario, Canada. Work The Great Transformation The Great Transformation (1944) is Polanyi's major work. In it, Polanyi described the inclosure process in England and the creation of the contemporary economic system at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Polanyi maintained that exchange, along with redistribution and reciprocity, has always existed, albeit embedded in different socio-institutional forms. However, during the nineteenth century, first in England and then in Western Europe and North America, as land, labor, and money gradually became commodities, the price mechanism and the profit motive, rather than the deliberation and negotiation of diverse social interests and concerns, became the structuring principle of the society. Classical economists come under fire in The Great transformation for their assertion that humanity’s early nature was "to barter, truck, and exchange," leading Polanyi to call the principle that a division of labor leads to a market economy "a fallacy" and "almost entirely apocryphal" (Polanyi 1944, pp. 44-45). Thus, these false claims of the classics, from Polanyi's perspective, serve as the foundation upon which today’s theories of economy and society rest, with their concept of the market undermining the principles of humanity. By attacking the fundamental assertions of economic liberalism Polanyi undermined the theory’s conclusion that living by means of the market is true to human nature. For Polanyi, the market society was not only undesirable, but also was socially and ecologically unsustainable. He also believed that society will develop spontaneous responses to protect itself against the advent of the logic of the markets. Succinctly put, "the economic system is, in effect, a mere function of social organization" (Polanyi 1944, p. 48). Polanyi asserted that the definition of land, labor, and money as commodities was merely created by the market to permit its very own existence. Polanyi noted that since land cannot be created, that labor is a power inherent in persons, and money is merely a token of exchange, the treatment of those resources as commodities is not only fictional, but also destructive (Polanyi 1944, pp. 72-73). He argued that in earlier times, instead of the profit motive, social needs dictated exchange in reciprocal form. Tribal societies used chieftains as redistributors and collectors of wealth, empires used vast bureaucracies to concentrate and allocate their wealth. Social obligation was the glue cementing people together in society, not the interconnected web of the market. From there, he developed the main theme of The Great Transformation, namely, the need for a planned socialist economy and the rejection of the argument that only a free market system could preserve liberal values. While Polanyi made a case that the market has not, and does not, work, he did not attack the concept directly. His argument against the market comes from the history of humanity thus far—that human beings never lived in a pure market economy until recently. Polanyi looked at societies from Polynesian tribal societies to Egypt and Rome and found not one use of a self-regulating market economy. Instead, relationships were characterized by "reciprocity and redistribution" as well as "symmetry and centricity" (Polanyi 1944, p.49). As Polanyi's approach took him outside the realm of usual economic inquiry, The Great Transformation contained suggestions for new lines of research which stimulated anthropologists many years later. In fact, the strength of his approach was its methodological originality and wide range of comparisons in a period when anthropology, and to some extent sociology, were dominated by a concern with fieldwork. The establishment of both subjects in the universities had narrowed the cultural background of their recruits, who no longer had prior training in handling historical material which had formed the foundation for the comparative studies of scholars like Weber and Mauss. Polanyi and Karl Marx Although inspired and informed by Karl Marx’s writings, Polanyi distanced himself from the labor theory of value as well as from other versions of his formal economic theory (Polanyi-Lewitt, 1990). Polanyi claimed that "some of the labor essential to human survival does become subordinated to the market." However, the reason that this occurs might be because "the vital importance of the economic factor to the existence of society precludes any other result … that a market economy can function only in a market society" (Nicholson 1986). Thus, a thesis often thought of as central to Marxism, the separation and dominance of the economic, "is in effect only a defining condition of a market economy." Moreover, as follows from Polanyi's analysis, it is just this condition which "only becomes true within the nineteenth century." Thus one can conclude that Marxism as social theory is very much a product of its time, insightful as an exposition of that which was becoming true, and false to the extent that the limited historical applicability of its claims was not recognized (Nicholson 1986). In effect, Polanyi's historical analysis of the development of human society in no way supported Marx's position regarding labor, instead revealing it to be untenable. Critiques of The Great Transformation Time and again, themes of society "protecting" itself from liberalism appear in Polanyi’s work. Yet never does Polanyi consider that the common folk, the workers—who he assumes to be the losers under liberalism and consummate anti-liberals—may have embraced some of the principles of liberalism. Polanyi neglected to see the social change brought about by liberalism. Liberal progress and equality under freedom are concepts dismissed by Polanyi. The elimination of privilege—no protection for industry, worker, or nobleman—and the end of the attempt by one faction in society to gain riches from the other, a goal of liberalism, goes against Polanyi’s thinking. Polanyi used democracy in a way that made it and the market mutually antithetical, and vilifying liberals along with democracy. There was not a militant liberal, who did not express his conviction that popular democracy was a danger to capitalism (Polanyi 1944, p. 226). The use of the term "militant" puts liberals in the same arena as communists and fascists, who truly were militant in their pursuit of power. Liberal ideas of nonviolence, and of the corruptibility of power, do not belong in this description. Polanyi did not go behind the projected image of the Soviet Union to probe for truth. This may be because he sympathized with it as an alternative to capitalism. He claimed that "the first Russian Revolution [of 1917] achieved the destruction of absolutism, feudal land tenure, and racial oppression." Despite numerous reports of communist repression in the 1930s and onwards, a period Polanyi was experiencing, Polanyi continued to maintain that Soviet policies were successful. His blind acceptance of Soviet principles may be because that society embodied what he was striving for, a rejection of the supremacy of the market. Yet, on what does his work rest? He provided no numbers to back up his arguments, as statistics showing the dislocation of the market exist for only a few examples and not others. His assertions as to the nature of man, while well-referenced, are second-hand characterizations of society. Indeed, a possible changing nature of humanity would complicate the argument, perhaps opening up the debate that just because man acted a certain way at a certain time, does not mean he must continue to do so. However, the passage most often quoted in refutation of Polanyi's arguments is this: previously to our time no economy has ever existed that, even in principle, was controlled by markets … gain and profit made on exchange never before [the nineteenth century] played an important part in human economy (Polanyi 1944 p. 43). According to McCloskey (1997), Polanyi asked the right question, but gave the wrong answer when he said that markets played no important role in earlier human societies. As proof, McCloskey cites evidence that, the further away from their source of obsidian the Mayan blade makers were, the less was the ratio of blade weight to cutting length. To McCloskey this indicated that "by taking more care with more costly obsidian the blade makers were earning better profits; as they did by taking less care with less costly obsidian" (McCloskey 1997, p. 484). Thus, if Polanyi was wrong about the evidence of a market economy prior to the nineteenth century, he could well have been wrong about the existence of other forms of integration and their importance. Legacy Polanyi is remembered today as the originator of a substantivist approach to economics, which emphasized the way economies are embedded in society and culture. This worked against mainstream economics, but became popular in anthropology and political science. In the years after publication of The Great Transformation, having described the emergence of the modern economic system, Polanyi now sought to understand how "the economy" emerged as a distinct sphere in the distant past. Polanyi and a number of colleagues and students expanded his analysis of the forms of economic integration, and produced the collection of essays published as Trade and Market in the Early Empires (1957). Both books present Polanyi's understanding of what made the economies of the nineteenth and of the twentieth centuries so different, and with such far-reaching consequences. Polanyi created a way of thinking about economies and societies that has had substantial impact on economic history, anthropology, and the study of the ancient Mediterranean. Despite its critics and flaws, The Great Transformation remains important as a highly original contribution to the understanding of the Western past; it has been and is important in methodological debates in the social sciences. Beyond that, Polanyi's work is likely to remain a valuable guide to the economic history of human development. Publications - Polanyi, K. 1957 (original 1944). The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our Time. Beacon Press by arrangement with Rinehart & Company Inc., Boston. - Polanyi, K., C.M. Arensber, and Harry W. Pearson. 1957. Trade and Market in the Early Empires: Economies in History and Theory. Glencoe, Illinois: The Free Press. - Polanyi, K. and A. Rotstein. 1966. Dahomey and the Slave Trade: An Analysis of an Archaic Economy. George Dalton. Seattle, Wash. - Polanyi, K. 1967. Tribal and Peasant Economies: Readings in Economic Anthropology. George Dalton, New York. - Polanyi, K. 1968. Essays—Primitive, Archaic and Modern Economies: Essays of Karl Polanyi. George Dalton. Garden City, N.Y. - Polanyi, K. 1968. Primitive, archaic and modern economies: Essays of Karl Polanyi. Garden City, NY: Anchor Books. ReferencesISBN links support NWE through referral fees - McCloskey, D. N. 1997. "Polanyi was Right, and Wrong" in Eastern Economic Journal. 23 (Fall), pp.483- 487. - Nicholson, L. 1986. Gender & History. Columbia University Press. - Polanyi-Levitt, K. and M. Mendell. 1989. "The Origins of Market Fetishism" in Monthly Review. 41, No. 2, pp. 11-32. - Polanyi-Levitt, Kari. 1990. The Life and Work of Karl Polanyi Black Rose Books. Montreal. - Stanfield, J. R. 1986. The Economic Thought of Karl Polanyi: Lives and Livelihood. New York: St. Martin's Press. External links All links retrieved March 2, 2025. Credits New World Encyclopedia writers and editors rewrote and completed the Wikipedia article in accordance with New World Encyclopedia standards. This article abides by terms of the Creative Commons CC-by-sa 3.0 License (CC-by-sa), which may be used and disseminated with proper attribution. Credit is due under the terms of this license that can reference both the New World Encyclopedia contributors and the selfless volunteer contributors of the Wikimedia Foundation. To cite this article click here for a list of acceptable citing formats.The history of earlier contributions by wikipedians is accessible to researchers here: The history of this article since it was imported to New World Encyclopedia: Note: Some restrictions may apply to use of individual images which are separately licensed.
