=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Highest Mountains In Romania - WorldAtlas]
Apr 25, 2017 · 3. Vistea Mare The Vistea Mare mountain peak is the third tallest point in Romania, standing at an elevation of 8,291 feet (2,527 meters) above sea level. The Vistea Mare is located in Brasov county. The Vistea Mare is found in the Fagaras Mountains, which are part of the greater overall group of mountain ranges called the Southern Carpathians.
URL: https://www.worldatlas.com/articles/highest-mountains-in-romania.html

[Viștea Mare - Wikipedia]
Viștea Mare (Romanian pronunciation: [ˈ v i ʃ t e̯a ˈ m a r e]) is a mountain peak in the Făgăraș Mountains of the Southern Carpathians of Brașov County in Romania. With an elevation of 2,527 metres (8,291 ft), it is the third highest peak in Romania after Moldoveanu Peak (2,544 m) and Negoiu Peak (2,535 m).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vi%C8%99tea_Mare

[Moldoveanu Peak Map - Nucșoara, Romania - Mapcarta]
Viștea Mare is a mountain peak in the Făgăraș Mountains of the Southern Carpathians of Brașov County in Romania. With an elevation of 2,527 metres, it is the third highest peak in Romania after Moldoveanu Peak and Negoiu Peak.
URL: https://mapcarta.com/13691492

[A top 5 of the Carpathians - the highest peaks in Romania]
Oct 21, 2024 — Top 5 highest peaks in Romania · Moldoveanu Peak, Făgăraș Mountains – 2544 m; · Negoiu Peak, Făgăraș Mountains – 2535 m; · Parângul Mare peak, ...
URL: https://www.valeaverde.com/en/stories/top-5-highest-peaks-in-romania/

[All You MUST Know Before You Go (with Reviews) - Tripadvisor]
Sep 12, 2017 · The tallest mountain peak in Romania, Moldoveanu stands proud in all its beauty, to be admired from its valeys or conquered by the more adventurous trackers.
URL: https://www.tripadvisor.com/Attraction_Review-g815576-d12870697-Reviews-Moldoveanu_Peak-Fagaras_Brasov_County_Central_Romania_Transylvania.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Highest Mountains In Romania - WorldAtlas] ---
Highest Mountains In Romania The country of Romania is a located in the southeastern region of Europe, and is often included as a member of the geopolitical community of the Balkans region. The country was a member of the Soviet Eastern Bloc until 1989, but has since joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in 2004 and the European Union in 2008. Despite this article being on the country's mountains, Romania is best known for its Transylvania Region with its medieval era towns, castles and of course the legend of the vampire Count Dracula. Five Highest Mountains in Romania 5. Lespezi The peak of Lespezi mountain is the fifth tallest point in Romania, standing at an elevation of 8,257 feet (2,516 meters) above sea level. The Lespezi mountain peak is located in Arges county. Lespezi is found in the Fagaras Mountains, which are part of the greater overall group of mountain ranges called the Southern Carpathians. The Fagaras Mountains and the Southern Carpathians both serve as its parent range. 4. Parangu Mare The Parangua Mare mountain peak is the fourth tallest point in Romania, standing at a height of 8,264 feet (2,519 meters) above sea level. The Parangua Mare is located on the border of Gorj county and Hunedoara county. The Parangu Mare is in the Parang Mountains, which are part of the greater overall group of mountain ranges called the Southern Carpathians. The Parang Mountains and the Southern Carpathians both serve as its parent range. For tourists who wish to visit and climb the Parangu Mare peak or the areas around it there is the Agatat Shelter, Groapa Seaca Cabin or Obirsia Lotrului Cabin that they can stay in near the start of the route up the mountain. 3. Vistea Mare The Vistea Mare mountain peak is the third tallest point in Romania, standing at an elevation of 8,291 feet (2,527 meters) above sea level. The Vistea Mare is located in Brasov county. The Vistea Mare is found in the Fagaras Mountains, which are part of the greater overall group of mountain ranges called the Southern Carpathians. The Fagaras Mountains and the Southern Carpathians both serve as its parent range. Up near the peak of Vistea Mare is the Refuge Vistea, a small hut for tourists and climbers to rest or stay the night in. 2. Negoiu The Negoiu mountain peak is the second tallest point in Romania, standing at a height of 8,316 feet (2,534 meters) above sea level. The Negoiu mountain peak is located in Sibiu county. Negoiu is found in the Fagaras Mountains, which are part of the greater overall group of mountain ranges called the Southern Carpathians. The Fagaras Mountains and the Southern Carpathians both serve as its parent range. 1. Moldoveanu The Moldoveanu mountain peak is the tallest point in all of Romania, standing at an elevation of 8,346 feet (2,544 meters) above sea level. The Moldoveanu mountain peak is located in Arges county. Moldoveanu is found in the Fagaras Mountains, which are part of the greater overall group of mountain ranges called the Southern Carpathians. The Fagaras Mountains and the Southern Carpathians both serve as its parent range. The summit of the peak has an honorary marker to designate it as the tallest point in the country and for tourists to see when the reach the top. The Importance of Romania's mountains The mountains of Romania are major destinations for international tourists, as well as native citizens of the country, to visit, and as such are an important asset of the Romanian economy. The mountains attracted locals and tourists to come climb them and experience and take in the outdoors and stunning scenic views. The mountains also provided a variety of outdoor activities for locals and tourists alike to take part in like, climbing, biking, hiking, skiing and river-rafting along the rivers that are near some mountains. Highest Mountains In Romania | Rank | Highest Mountains in Romania | Elevation | |---|---|---| | 1 | Moldoveanu | 8,346 feet | | 2 | Negoiu | 8,316 feet | | 3 | Vistea Mare | 8,291 feet | | 4 | Parangu Mare | 8,264 feet | | 5 | Lespezi | 8,257 feet | | 6 | Virful Peleaga | 8,232 feet | | 7 | Papusa | 8,228 feet | | 8 | Vanatoarea lui Buteanu | 8,225 feet | | 9 | Omu of Prahova | 8,225 feet | | 10 | Varful Hartopu | 8,222 feet |


--- [Viștea Mare - Wikipedia] ---
Viștea Mare (Romanian pronunciation: [ˈviʃte̯a ˈmare]) is a mountain peak in the Făgăraș Mountains of the Southern Carpathians of Brașov County in Romania. With an elevation of 2,527 metres (8,291 ft), it is the third highest peak in Romania after Moldoveanu Peak (2,544 m) and Negoiu Peak (2,535 m).


--- [Moldoveanu Peak Map - Nucșoara, Romania - Mapcarta] ---
Moldoveanu Peak Moldoveanu Peak, at 2,544 metres, is the highest mountain peak in Romania. It is located in Argeș County, in the Făgăraș Mountains of the Southern Carpathians.Notable Places in the Area Viștea Mare Summit Viștea Mare is a mountain peak in the Făgăraș Mountains of the Southern Carpathians of Brașov County in Romania, with an elevation of 2,527 metres. Viștea Mare is situated 370 metres north of Moldoveanu Peak. Photo: Mitrutpopoiu, Public domain. Hârtopul Ursului Summit Hârtopul Ursului is situated 1½ km northeast of Moldoveanu Peak. Photo: Asybaris01, Public domain. Ucea Mare Summit Ucea Mare is situated 1½ km northwest of Moldoveanu Peak. Photo: Asybaris01, Public domain. Galbenele Summit Galbenele is situated 2 km northeast of Moldoveanu Peak. Photo: Asybaris01, Public domain. Moldoveanu Peak Latitude 45.5996° or 45° 35' 58.4" north | Longitude 24.7362° or 24° 44' 10.2" east | Elevation 2544 metres (8346 feet) | OpenStreetMap ID node 298202511 | GeoNames ID 672907 | Let's improve OpenStreetMap together. Also Known As - Arabic: قمة مولدوفينو - Basque: Moldoveanu - Bavarian: Moldoveanu - Belarusian: Гара Малдавяну - Belarusian: Малдавяну - Breton: Moldoveanu - Bulgarian: Молдовяну - Catalan: Moldoveanu - Cebuano: Moldoveanu - Chinese: 摩尔多韦亚努峰 - Chinese: 摩爾多韋亞努峰 - Czech: Moldoveanu - Czech: nejvyšší hora Rumunska - Dutch: Moldoveanu - Egyptian Arabic: جبل مولدوڤيانو پياك - Estonian: Moldoveanu - Finnish: Moldoveanu - French: Moldoveanu - French: Sommet Moldoveanu - Galician: Monte Moldoveanu - Georgian: მოლდოვიანუ - German: Moldoveanu - Hungarian: Moldoveanu-csúcs - Hungarian: Moldován-csúcs - Indonesian: Puncak Moldoveanu - Italian: Moldoveanu - Italian: Monte Moldoveanu - Japanese: モルドベアヌ山 - Lithuanian: Moldovianu - Lithuanian: Moldovianu kalnas - Lombard: Moldoveanu - Macedonian: Молдовјану - Norwegian: Moldoveanu - Norwegian Bokmål: Moldoveanu - Norwegian Nynorsk: Moldoveanu - Norwegian Nynorsk: Moldoveanutoppen - Persian: قله مولدووانو - Polish: Moldoveanu - Portuguese: Monte Moldoveanu - Romanian: Moldoveanu - Romanian: Varful moldoveanu - Romanian: Vârful Moldoveanu, Munţii Făgăraş - Romanian: Vârful Moldoveanu, Munții Făgăraș - Romanian: Vârful Moldoveanu - Russian: Молдовяну - Scots: Moldoveanu Peak - Slovak: Moldoveanu - Spanish: Moldoveanu - Swahili: Vârful Moldoveanu - Turkish: Moldoveanu Zirvesi - Ukrainian: Молдовяну - Moldoveanul In the Area Localities - sub Balea Lac9 km west - ViștișoaraHamlet, 11 km north - Stațiunea Climaterică SâmbătaVillage, 11 km northeast - VictoriaTown, 14 km north Landmarks - RosuPeak, 670 metres southeast - UcisoaraSummit, 1 km northwest - GalbenaSummit, 1½ km southeast - Hartopul UrsuluiPeak, 1½ km northeast Other Places - Sambata MonasteryMonastery, 11 km northeast - Pensiunea AlpinLife (Hermeneasa)Hotel, 17 km northeast - Cabana BarcaciuBuilding, 20 km west - Pârăul DejanilorStream, 20 km northeast Explore Your World - HütteltalkopfSummit, Krimml, Salzburg - Pizzo BassetSummit, Lombardy, Italy - Pico de Rancho NuevoPeak, Dominican Republic - GugleSummit, Valais, Switzerland - Sex des PaccotsSummit, Vaud, Switzerland - Monte BrentoniSummit, Belluno, Veneto Popular Destinations in Romania Escape to a Random Place | MaupitiFrench Polynesia | Costa SmeraldaItaly | | CaliforniaUnited States | SeoulSouth Korea | About Mapcarta. Thanks to Mapbox for providing amazing maps. Data © OpenStreetMap contributors and available under the Open Database License. Text is available under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license, excluding photos, directions and the map. Based on the page Moldoveanu Peak. See this page's contributions. Photo: Andrei Stroe, CC BY-SA 4.0.


--- [A top 5 of the Carpathians - the highest peaks in Romania] ---
Romania is a privileged country in terms of nature, and its geographical diversity hides, among other things, true mountain gems. Romania’s mountains are impressive not only for their altitude, but also for the spectacular landscapes they offer, covering everything from coniferous forests and alpine meadows to steep cliffs and deep valleys. Symbols of the majesty and strength of nature, they are a refuge, but also a challenge, for those in love with their wild beauty and purity. Romania’s highest mountains are found predominantly in the Făgăraș, Parâng and Retezat massifs, and their ascent is a test of physical and mental endurance, but also a spiritual reward through the feeling of freedom it gives you once you’ve reached the highest peak. Here are Romania’s highest mountain peaks: - Moldoveanu Peak, Făgăraș Mountains – 2544 m; - Negoiu Peak, Făgăraș Mountains – 2535 m; - Parângul Mare peak, Parâng Mountains – 2519 m; - Omu Peak, Bucegi Mountains – 2514 m; - Peak Păpușa, Retezat Mountains – 2508 m. In the following lines, we invite you to discover them on a virtual journey in the heart of the Carpathians, where the sky meets the earth and nature reigns in its purest form. - The highest peaks in Romania – Moldoveanu Peak - The highest peaks in Romania – Negoiu Peak - The highest peaks in Romania – Parângul Mare Peak - The highest peaks in Romania – Omu Peak - The highest peaks in Romania – Doll’s Peak 1. The highest peaks in Romania – Moldoveanu Peak Vârful Moldoveanu, the highest peak in Romania, rises to an impressive 2,544 meters and is part of the Făgăraș Massif, which in turn belongs to the Southern Carpathian mountain range. This massif, also known as the “Transylvanian Alps” because of its spectacular heights, attracts thousands of tourists from all over the world every year. Accessibility and trails There are several trails that lead to this peak, the most popular and most frequented being the one that starts from Victoria, through the Visstea Mare Valley. The route follows the red stripes and takes about 8-10 hours round trip. Another popular route is the one starting from Stâna lui Burnei, in Argeș county. Although the route is shorter (about 6-8 hours round-trip), it has difficult stretches with steep cliffs and narrow paths, requiring good physical condition and attention. Another spectacular route starts from the area of Lake Bâlea, crosses the main ridge of Făgăraș and includes a number of other important peaks, such as Negoiu Peak (the second highest peak in Romania). This route is longer and can take 2-3 days, but it offers a complete mountain experience with panoramic views over the ridges and valleys of the Southern Carpathians. ▶️ You can learn more about Moldoveanu Peak by reading the article Everything About Moldoveanu Peak (Vârful Moldoveanu): Highest Mountain in Romania Sights and attractions in the area Lake Bâlea, located at 2,034 meters above sea level, is a major point of interest in the area. Accessible via the Transfăgărășan, one of the most spectacular mountain roads in the world, the lake is the ideal place for relaxation and easy hiking, and is the starting point for day trips to other peaks of the massif. Another attraction is the Bâlea Waterfall, one of the largest and most spectacular waterfalls in Romania. Located at an altitude of about 1,234 meters, the waterfall has a drop of 60 meters and is accessible by a medium-difficulty trail. In the area, towns such as Victoria and Cârțișoara offer opportunities to sample traditional Transylvanian cuisine, and many guesthouses and chalets serve dishes cooked according to original recipes with fresh, local ingredients. Climbing Moldoveanu Peak is not recommended for beginners, as the routes include exposed, rocky and sometimes steep sections. In addition, the weather in the Făgăraș massif is often unpredictable, even in summer, with rapid temperature changes and fog. It is essential for mountaineers to be well equipped, consult the weather forecast and be prepared for any situation. 👉 If you prefer to combine comfort, refined gastronomy and hiking in Făgăraș, choose from the Valea Verde Retreat accommodation offers the one that best suits your tastes and needs and take advantage of the recently renovated spaces we offer. 2. The highest peaks in Romania – Negoiu Peak Negoiu Peak, the second highest peak in Romania, rises to an altitude of 2,535 meters and is part of the Făgăraș massif. Accessibility and trails Among the most popular trails is the one that starts from the Bârcaciu hut, located at an altitude of 1,550 meters, a 7-8 hour round-trip. The route passes through Piatra Prânzului and arrives in Șaua Scării, then follows the ridge leading directly to the summit. This route is marked with blue tape and offers breathtaking views of the entire Făgăraș massif. Another route starts from Negoiu Hut, which is located at an altitude of 1,540 meters. The route from here takes about 4-5 hours, with a high degree of difficulty, passing through easy climbing sections and exposed areas such as Strunga Dracului. Another famous route is the one starting from Lake Bâlea, located on the Transfăgărășan. The route, although longer (about 8-10 hours round-trip), is spectacular, passing viewpoints such as the Șaua Caprei and offering a complete hiking experience in the heart of the Southern Carpathians. Sights and attractions in the area In addition to the mountain trails and spectacular peaks, the Călțun Lake, located at 2,135 meters above sea level, is one of the most impressive destinations in this part of the Făgăraș massif. From here you can continue the ascent to Negoiu Peak, in a landscape dominated by cliffs and steep ridges. Near the village of Magura, food lovers can enjoy local dishes such as mămăligliguță, game and mountain cheeses. Although not as high as Moldoveanu Peak, Negoiu presents a significant challenge for hikers. The routes leading to the summit include technical sections, such as Strunga Dracului or Strunga Doamnei, which require climbing skills and appropriate equipment. In addition, the weather in the Făgăraș Massif can be unpredictable, even in summer, and fog or sudden rain can turn the route into a real test of physical and mental endurance. 3. The highest peaks in Romania – Parângul Mare Peak Parângul Mare peak, with an altitude of 2,519 meters, is the highest peak in the Parâng massif, part of the Southern Carpathians, which stretches between the Jiului Valley and the Oltului Valley. Parângul Mare is renowned for its spectacular scenery, diversity of routes and relatively easy accessibility. Accessibility and trails The Parângul Mare peak is accessible by several marked trails, and most tourists start their ascent from the Parâng resort area, located at about 1,700 meters above sea level, easily accessible from the town of Petrosani, either by car or by chairlift. From here, you can take the red marked trail, which climbs up the main ridge of the massif and reaches the Parângul Mare peak in about 5-6 hours. This route is of medium difficulty, but requires good physical condition, as the climb is constant and has sections exposed to strong winds. Another popular route starts from Pasul Urdele, located on the Transalpina, the highest road in Romania. The route is marked with red stripes and follows the Parâng ridge, crossing several intermediate peaks, such as Vârful Mohoru (2,337 meters) and Vârful Setea Mare (2,365 meters). This route is longer and can take between 7 and 9 hours, but offers spectacular views of the surrounding mountain valleys and ridges. It’s also a popular option for those who want to combine hiking with a trip on the Transalpina. For the more experienced, a spectacular and less frequented route is the one that starts from the town of Petrosani, following the red triangle to the Parâng resort, and from there on the main ridge. It’s a long route, which can take up to 10 hours, but it offers an authentic mountain experience. 👉 Want to travel on the Transalpina, hike in Parâng, but also enjoy all the comforts you’re used to? Choose accommodation in the apartments of Casa Valea Verde, specially designed for guests who want to have all the amenities at their fingertips. Sights and attractions in the area The Parâng massif and its surroundings are rich in natural and cultural attractions. The resort of Parâng is one of the most important tourist destinations in the area, known for both summer hiking and winter sports. In winter, the resort becomes an attraction for skiers and snowboarders. Another major point of interest in the area is the glacial lake Roșiile, located at an altitude of about 1,900 meters. Accessible from the resort of Parâng, through a 3-4 hour hike, it is one of the largest and deepest glacial lakes in the Parâng massif. Also in the Parâng massif is the glacial lake Gâlcescu, situated at an altitude of 1,935 meters. It’s a popular spot for sport fishing, and black goats and other mountain wildlife can be spotted on the way to the lake. The ascent of the Parângul Mare peak is not extremely difficult, but it requires physical preparation and proper equipment, especially due to the rapid weather changes in the area. Strong winds and low temperatures can occur even in the summer months, and in the cold season, snow can make the trails difficult and the ascent requires winter gear such as ice axes and ice axes to safely traverse the exposed ridges. Longer routes, such as those starting from Petroșani or the Transalpina, can be strenuous and require good physical condition, but reward the effort with spectacular scenery. 4. The highest peaks in Romania – Omu Peak With an altitude of 2,505 meters, it is the highest point in the Bucegi massif and one of the most emblematic mountain peaks in Romania. Part of the Southern Carpathian chain, the Bucegii are known for their spectacular landscapes, unique geological formations and relatively easy accessibility for tourists. Accessibility and trails One of the most popular routes starts from the resort of Busteni, crossing the Jepilor Valley. This trail, marked with a blue cross, is of medium difficulty and takes about 5-6 hours to the summit. Along the way, tourists pass the famous Babele hut, as well as iconic rock formations such as Babele and the Sphinx. Another popular route is the one that starts in Sinaia, passes by the 1400 meters above sea level and then the Piatra Arsă hut, from where it continues on the Bucegi plateau, up to the Omu Peak. This route is marked with a yellow stripe and takes about 7-8 hours round-trip, offering spectacular views over the Prahova Valley. For those who want a longer and more demanding route, the route through the Gaura Valley is one of the less crowded and spectacular options. The route follows the red lane markings and takes about 6-8 hours, passing through wild landscapes with glacial calderas and impressive waterfalls. 👉 Located just 350 meters from the restaurant, Samways House at Valea Verde Retreat can be the ideal choice of accommodation for a food enthusiast, but also for a hiking enthusiast in Bucegi, who wants to have a place to fully rest after mountain escapades. Sights and attractions in the area The Bucegi Massif is famous for a number of tourist attractions that have become national symbols. The best known are the Babele and the Sphinx, natural rock formations on the Bucegi plateau, whose geological origin has given rise to numerous legends. The Sphinx, with its peculiar shape, is often compared to the famous Sphinx of Egypt, while the Babele are interpreted as the “petrified old women” of the Buceg. Another major attraction is the Howling Waterfall, located near Busteni. Accessible by an easy one-hour hike, the waterfall is one of the most spectacular in Bucegi. It is an ideal destination for those who want to make a short stop before climbing to the top. Omu Hut, located just below the summit, is one of the highest altitude refuges in the Carpathians and offers shelter for hikers. A popular rest stop, it has a rustic atmosphere but offers everything you need for a good night’s rest or a short break. Also on the Bucegi plateau is the Cross of the Heroes of Caraiman, a monument dedicated to the fallen heroes of the First World War. Situated at 2,291 meters above sea level, it is one of the most impressive mountain monuments in Romania, visible from a great distance and offering a spectacular view of the Prahova Valley. Romanian food lovers can find restaurants offering traditional Romanian dishes such as mici, grilled sausages, sarmale and soups. Although Omu Peak is accessible via a number of tourist trails, the ascent is not without its challenges. The routes vary in difficulty, and some sections, such as the Jepilor Valley or Gaura Valley, include steep and exposed sections that can become dangerous in bad weather. Rapid changes in temperature and fog are common in the Bucegi, even in summer, and in winter, snow can make trails inaccessible and there is also the danger of avalanches. 5. The highest peaks in Romania – Peak Doll’s Peak It has an altitude of 2,408 meters, is located in the Retezat massif, part of the Southern Carpathians, and is one of the most picturesque mountain peaks in Romania. The Retezat Massif, known for its spectacular landscapes, glacial lakes and rich biodiversity, is the ideal destination for nature and adventure lovers. Accessibility and trails The peak is accessible by several trails, each with its own characteristics and different levels of difficulty. The most popular route starts from the village of Nucșoara at the base of the Retezat massif. From here, tourists follow a trail marked with a yellow stripe, which passes by Lake Galeșul and leads to the Pietrele hut. The route takes about 6-7 hours round-trip and is considered of medium difficulty. Another popular route starts from Sălașu de Sus, passes through Valea Rea and reaches the Retezat hut. From here, the route continues along the Retezat ridge to Vârful Păpușa. This route is longer and can take between 8 and 10 hours, but it offers great views of glacial lakes such as Lake Bucura and Lake Lia, the largest glacial lakes in the Retezat massif. For those who want a shorter and less frequented ascent, there is also the route that starts from the Râușor Hut. This follows a route marked with red tape, crossing several intermediate peaks before reaching Vârpe Păpușa. The route takes about 5-6 hours and is ideal for those who want to avoid the crowds and enjoy a wilder natural landscape. 👉 In addition to hiking in the Retezat massif, you can also benefit from the expertise of the guides at Valea Verde Retreat, who can create for you original itineraries of one day or shorter, where you can discover the beauty of Transylvania. Sights and attractions in the area Glacial lakes are some of the most important points of interest. Lake Bucura, situated at an altitude of 2,043 meters, is the largest glacial lake in Romania and offers spectacular scenery and is a popular spot for fishing and photography. Lake Lia, situated at a similar altitude, is also known for its clear waters and surrounding mountain scenery. There are other interesting peaks close to Păpușa Peak, such as Retezat Peak and Peleaga Peak, which offer superb views of the entire massif and the surrounding valleys. These peaks are accessible by trails starting from the same area and are excellent for longer hikes. Another point of attraction is the Retezat Nature Reserve, which is a protected area of national and European importance, home to remarkable biodiversity, including rare animal species such as the black goat and the lynx. At Cabana Pietrele, you can enjoy traditional Romanian dishes and dishes cooked with fresh ingredients, including game dishes and local cheeses. Although the trails are well marked, weather conditions can change rapidly, with fog, rain or blizzards. Tourists should be prepared for sudden changes in the weather and have appropriate mountain hiking gear, including waterproof clothing and sturdy footwear. In winter, the routes to Doll’s Peak can become difficult and require climbing equipment, as snow and ice can make the ascent dangerous. It is therefore important that hikers are well prepared, in good physical condition and check the weather forecast before setting off. Romania’s highest peaks are not only favorite destinations for hikers and intrepid mountaineers, but also symbols of a precious natural heritage worth protecting. Each expedition to these mountain peaks brings us closer to nature and offers new perspectives on the world around us. Photo sources: Shutterstock, Shutterstock, Valea Verde Retreat, Shutterstock, Shutterstock, Valea Verde Retreat, Shutterstock, Shutterstock, Shutterstock, Shutterstock.


--- [All You MUST Know Before You Go (with Reviews) - Tripadvisor] ---
Moldoveanu Peak Moldoveanu Peak 5 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Monday 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Tuesday 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Wednesday 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Thursday 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Friday 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Saturday 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Sunday 12:00 AM - 11:59 PM Tours & experiences Explore different ways to experience this place. Full view Top ways to experience Moldoveanu Peak and nearby attractions The area Reach out directly Best nearby Restaurants 16 within 3 miles Attractions 6 within 6 miles Contribute Most Recent: Reviews ordered by most recent publish date in descending order. Detailed Reviews: Reviews ordered by recency and descriptiveness of user-identified themes such as wait time, length of visit, general tips, and location information. Popular mentions 5.0 11 reviews Excellent 11 Very good 0 Average 0 Poor 0 Terrible 0 Felicia Soo Vaslui County, Romania257 contributions Jul 2022 • Couples We did the way less traveled, some rated it as difficult. First of all, we reached Slatina village and a further 38km forestier road. Strongly recommend you to get your food supply at Doi Passi supermarket, else you need to get them from the minimarket at the road side (there's one next to a pharmacy). We did the forest road with our four wheel Duster, but since we don't want to spoilt it, we go extremely slow and careful. It took us two hours to get to the decent parking space. Passing through the Stana Lui Burnei for one hour, we were greeted by a flat land with river stream running through. My personal favourite view of the journey. The whole journey to the peak took us 5 hours with many stops and we were not trained. A decent day trip. After all, it is the highest peak in Romania! We did the forest road with our four wheel Duster, but since we don't want to spoilt it, we go extremely slow and careful. It took us two hours to get to the decent parking space. Passing through the Stana Lui Burnei for one hour, we were greeted by a flat land with river stream running through. My personal favourite view of the journey. The whole journey to the peak took us 5 hours with many stops and we were not trained. A decent day trip. After all, it is the highest peak in Romania! Written July 3, 2022 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. lilidumi Ploiesti10 contributions Aug 2024 • Family Moldoveanu Peak is the highest point of Romania, 2544 meters elevations. We have arrived there after a 6 hours hike (the duration of the route displayed at Stana lui Burnei is too optimistic for the average, untrained tourist), but the joy, happiness, pride will make the effort negligible. This is an unmissable experience! This is an unmissable experience! Written August 6, 2024 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. Jazzumbo Romania2,190 contributions Sep 2018 • Friends There are many ways to reach the peak. The easy way is from Podragu lake (sleep overnight in a tent around Podragu lake, then head for Moldoveanu Peak in the morning. You can return to Podragu lake in the afternoon) The hard way is from Nucsoara, Stana lui Brunei. This is also the fastest way (the altitude gap between starting point and Moldoveanu peak is about 1000 m), so it's very steep. However, the scenery is spectacular all the way up. You'll see a glacial valley and a glacial lake shaped like a triangle on the way up. Alpine landscape is gorgeous all around. If you're lucky, you can spot a chamois or more jumping on the rocks. If you're not lucky, there will be a foggy day and you'll see nothing. Anyway, be prepared for rain and fog, no matter the weather forecast. The hard way is from Nucsoara, Stana lui Brunei. This is also the fastest way (the altitude gap between starting point and Moldoveanu peak is about 1000 m), so it's very steep. However, the scenery is spectacular all the way up. You'll see a glacial valley and a glacial lake shaped like a triangle on the way up. Alpine landscape is gorgeous all around. If you're lucky, you can spot a chamois or more jumping on the rocks. If you're not lucky, there will be a foggy day and you'll see nothing. Anyway, be prepared for rain and fog, no matter the weather forecast. Written September 20, 2018 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. Michael G Bli Bli, Australia405 contributions Sep 2017 • Friends We did this as part of a guided walk and took us four days from the beginning of the trek to the peak of Moldoveanu and back to Brasov. The trek is quite demanding and our guide graded it 8/10. There are many steep climbs and descents as well as beautiful walks along narrow ridges. The scenery is spectacular and there are beautiful mountain lakes. Unfortunately in some places there is debris from dilapidated old buildings or from people leaving drinking cans. You spend two nights in two basic mountain huts. Our group reached the peak after leaving our walking poles at a point about 200 m from the actual peak. This distance is technically moderately difficult with a small area of chains but also a requirement for climbing rocks. At one of these climbing sites I fell and broke three ribs following which I had to hike for a further six hours to the next mountain hut. I mention this as a warning to be careful along this segment in order to avoid injury. In summary though this trek is beautiful and one very worthwhile doing in the spectacular Fagaras mountains. The trek is quite demanding and our guide graded it 8/10. There are many steep climbs and descents as well as beautiful walks along narrow ridges. The scenery is spectacular and there are beautiful mountain lakes. Unfortunately in some places there is debris from dilapidated old buildings or from people leaving drinking cans. You spend two nights in two basic mountain huts. Our group reached the peak after leaving our walking poles at a point about 200 m from the actual peak. This distance is technically moderately difficult with a small area of chains but also a requirement for climbing rocks. At one of these climbing sites I fell and broke three ribs following which I had to hike for a further six hours to the next mountain hut. I mention this as a warning to be careful along this segment in order to avoid injury. In summary though this trek is beautiful and one very worthwhile doing in the spectacular Fagaras mountains. Written September 12, 2017 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. Gijs v Amsterdam, The Netherlands36 contributions Jul 2020 • Friends Amazing mountain with fantastic views! The hike up to the peak is pretty challenging but with great views and absolutely worth it! Written July 26, 2020 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. JaqbM Warsaw, Poland145 contributions Aug 2019 "Roof" of Romania! It's great, beautiful, magnificent!!! Considerably easy to climb, even without strong preparations - but get ready for cold wind, fog or even snow up there (even in the middle of the summer)! It's great, beautiful, magnificent!!! Considerably easy to climb, even without strong preparations - but get ready for cold wind, fog or even snow up there (even in the middle of the summer)! Written January 13, 2020 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. alexandru m Sibiu, Romania59 contributions Oct 2018 difficult to reach this peak. At this altitude (over 2500 meters) the weather is changing, this combined with the lack of mountain chalets in the area can create serious problems at the top of the mountain. I recommend this trek only between June and October, boots being mandatory. some trails allow you to get to the top and then one day, the usual ridge route requires 2 or more days, but you will be rewarded with superb landscapes Written December 13, 2018 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. Valentin Brasov, Romania92 contributions Aug 2017 • Business I realize most people will not make it up there, but it is one of the best views one can imagine. If you have the stamina it is totally worth it. Written July 9, 2018 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. Vladimiramirela Mississauga, Canada1,881 contributions Jul 2019 The tallest mountain peak in Romania, Moldoveanu stands proud in all its beauty, to be admired from its valeys or conquered by the more adventurous trackers. Written October 25, 2019 This review is the subjective opinion of a Tripadvisor member and not of Tripadvisor LLC. Tripadvisor performs checks on reviews as part of our industry-leading trust & safety standards. Read our transparency report to learn more. Hi, I'm looking to hike Mt. Moldoveanu in May. Will I need an ice ax and crampons? Written March 6, 2022 Can anyone recommend a trekking company to use for this trek or other treks nearby? thank you! Written April 4, 2019 in my opinion good time to climb the peak moldoveanu is between june,and october. probably if you try to reach from South is ok in last days of may. I reach the summit from north in 2 different ways, both are difficult. you need 2or more days,sometime is posible in one day if is sunny day, dry path, and you are in good shape. for few days I can help you Written April 7, 2019 Thought I might attempt it in May time. Will there be snow and ice in May? Thanks, Eddie. Written February 4, 2019 There will be snow on the North slope of the peak. You'll probably find ice and snow blocks on the way up even if you climb from the South slope, even from Podragu lake. Written February 4, 2019 Showing results 1-3 of 3 Is this your Tripadvisor listing? Own or manage this property? Claim your listing for free to respond to reviews, update your profile and much more. Claim your listing
