=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Attempted assassination of Mikhail Gorbachev - Wikipedia]
On 7 November 1990, Aleksandr Shmonov attempted to assassinate Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev during the 1990 October Revolution Parade in Moscow. Shmonov, a dissident who was angry at Gorbachev's handling of democratic reforms, attempted to fire two bullets at Gorbachev but was spotted and overpowered by the police.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attempted_assassination_of_Mikhail_Gorbachev

[The assassination attempt on Mikhail Gorbachev in 1990 — a photo video ...]
Nov 9, 2023 · On November 7, 1990, during the celebration of the anniversary of the Bolshevik coup in Moscow, an attempt was made on Mikhail Gorbachev, who became the first and last president of the USSR that year. Locksmith Alexandr Shmonov, dissatisfied with the presidentʼs politics and failed reforms, tried to shoot him. At the last moment, Shmonov was interrupted by a police sergeant who happened to be ...
URL: https://babel.ua/en/texts/100350-33-years-ago-mikhail-gorbachev-was-almost-shot-on-red-square-by-a-locksmith-dissatisfied-with-his-politics-we-recall-the-attempt-that-the-kgb-missed-and-of-course-we-hint

[The last Soviet terrorist: The man who tried to assassinate Gorbachev]
Feb 16, 2017 · Scheme of the assassination attempt at Gorbachev on Nov. 7, 1990. Source: Kirill Polukhin/RBTH I ask Shmonov whether he now considers Gorbachev a strange choice for a target.
URL: https://www.rbth.com/politics_and_society/politics/2017/02/16/the-last-soviet-terrorist-the-man-who-tried-to-assassinate-gorbachev_703611

[Gunman Reportedly Wanted to Kill Gorbachev - Los Angeles Times]
Nov 16, 1990 — Andrei Mylnikov, who was said to have foiled the assassination attempt. The latest accounts shed a dramatically different light on the Nov ...
URL: https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-1990-11-16-mn-4659-story.html

[Gunman Had Plan to Kill Gorbachev - Los Angeles Times]
Nov 15, 1990 — He was then grabbed by more security men. “Shmonov said he had been preparing this assassination attempt for more than two years,” Sokolov told ...
URL: https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-1990-11-15-mn-6520-story.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Attempted assassination of Mikhail Gorbachev - Wikipedia] ---
On 7 November 1990, Aleksandr Shmonov attempted to assassinate Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev during the 1990 October Revolution Parade in Moscow. Shmonov, a dissident who was angry at Gorbachev's handling of democratic reforms, attempted to fire two bullets at Gorbachev but was spotted and overpowered by the police. Shmonov was declared insane and sent to a psikhushka until his release in 1995.
It was the first direct assassination attempt of a Soviet leader since the attempted assassination of Leonid Brezhnev in 1969, and the last before the dissolution of the Soviet Union a year later.


--- [The assassination attempt on Mikhail Gorbachev in 1990 — a photo video ...] ---
In 1985, 54-year-old Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in the USSR. He was called the "young general secretary", because most of his colleagues at the top of the party were at least twenty years older. He tried to introduce radical reforms in all spheres, they went down in history under the name "perestroika". By the end of the 1980s, Gorbachev had established relations with the West. He negotiated an arms reduction, finally withdrew Soviet troops from Afghanistan, and promised not to interfere in the affairs of socialist countries in Europe. In this way, Gorbachev tried to save money on military and armament expenses. At that time, oil, one of the main sources of income of the Soviet Union, was rapidly becoming cheaper — its price dropped almost three times. Such reforms made Gorbachev popular in the West. His meeting with American President George Bush Sr. in early December 1989 was called by the press the end of the Cold War between the USSR and the USA. And Gorbachev himself received the Nobel Peace Prize in October 1990. On the other hand, after the weakening of Moscowʼs control in Europe in 1989, communist regimes began to fall one after another. Somewhere it happened peacefully, like in Poland or Czechoslovakia. But, for example, in Romania, anti-government protests turned into an armed uprising, which ended with the execution of dictator Nicolae Ceausescu. And finally, the Berlin Wall fell, which for decades was one of the main symbols of the Cold War. In domestic policy, the perestroika reforms were more controversial, relaxations often alternated with rather strict measures. For example, along with attempts to introduce a market economy, a fight against "non-labor income" was launched. Its main victims were street vendors, as well as collective farm workers and townspeople who grew fruits and vegetables for sale. Another example of strict state centralization was the anti-alcohol campaign of 1985. Eventually, underground moonshine became widespread, drug addiction and drug addiction spread rapidly, and the economy lost tens of billions of rubles. The economic situation in the USSR was rapidly deteriorating. The countryʼs foreign debt increased from approximately $31 billion in 1985 to more than $70 billion as of 1991. In 1989, hyperinflation and a rapid increase in prices began. Products suddenly disappeared from store shelves. There were long queues at the shops where you could buy anything. That year, food stamps were introduced even in the capital of the state, Moscow — for the first time since the Second World War. In parallel with the economic crisis, a political one was brewing. The first serious blow to Gorbachevʼs reputation was caused by the Kremlinʼs attempt to silence the real scale of the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. And this is despite statements about openness, democratic freedoms and the absence of censorship. Subsequently, at the end of the 1980s, against the background of the fall of communist regimes in Europe, a "parade of sovereignties" began in the Soviet republics, which threatened the existence of the USSR. Of course, the Kremlin didnʼt like all of this, so the first such attempts in the Baltics and the Caucasus were tried to be suppressed with economic sanctions and force. But protest moods were already spreading even in Moscow. At that time, Gorbachev hastily set about fundamentally reforming the structure of power. At the plenum of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in January 1990, he pushed through two revolutionary amendments to the Constitution of the USSR: to cancel the article on the leadership role of the Communist Party and to create a new highest position in the state — the president, who was to be elected by popular vote. The Extraordinary Congress of Peopleʼs Deputies adopted these amendments on March 14, and the next day violated them by electing Gorbachev as president by secret ballot. To tell the truth, at that time Gorbachev was no longer interested in democracy. A few days before that, Lithuania was the first of the republics to announce its withdrawal from the USSR and, of course, would not agree to participate in the elections of the Soviet president. The radical actions of the authorities only strengthened radical attitudes in society. Many began to doubt the prospects of democratically influencing the course of events in the country. But Alexandr Shmonov, a 38-year-old locksmith at the Izhorsk plant in Leningrad, decided to go even further — he planned to kill Gorbachev. Shmonov came from an ordinary Soviet family and had a completely average biography: he studied, served in the army, worked, led a quiet lifestyle. Later, he admitted that his decision was influenced by two events. The first one was dispersal by Soviet paratroopers of an anti-government protest in Tbilisi in April 1989, when twenty protesters were killed in clashes and more than four thousand people were injured. And the second one was the suppression by the troops of opposition demonstrations in Baku in January 1990, as a result of which more than 130 people died. However, Shmonov began by pasting leaflets calling for the overthrow of the Communist Party, as well as anonymous letters with threats, which he sent to the Kremlin. Realizing that no one was paying attention to this, he decided to take a more decisive step and began to plan the murder. He prepared carefully. At first, he calculated that the best chance to get as close as possible to Gorbachev was the parade on Red Square in Moscow on the occasion of the anniversary of the Bolshevik coup. Shmonov bought a double-barreled hunting rifle and special cartridges that can be used to kill an elk or a wild boar with one shot. He sawed off the butt so that it could fit under the cloak. He practiced getting it quickly and regained his shooting skills — even in the army he was famous for good accuracy. On the day of the demonstration, November 7, 1990, Shmonov put on a fake mustache and wig, grabbed a poster on a metal stand in case he was checked by metal detectors, and went to Red Square. He put a note in his trouser pocket where he admitted that he "wanted to try to kill the President of the USSR Gorbachev." Shmonov was sure that he would be shot during an assassination attempt. But at first no one paid attention to him at all. He huddled with one of the columns of demonstrators and reached the podium of the Mausoleum, where Gorbachev stood surrounded by the Soviet leadership. When there were less than 50 meters left to the tribune, Shmonov fell behind the column, took out his rifle and took aim. But he did not notice that a police sergeant happened to be just a few steps away from him, who instantly found his way, cocked the barrel of the rifle so that both shots missed the target. After that, KGB agents in civilian clothes ran up, Shmonov was quickly tied up and taken out of Red Square. Everything happened so quickly that almost no one paid attention to it. Even Gorbachev himself, when he was told about the assassination attempt, did not believe it at first. Except that the telecast of the parade was interrupted for 15 minutes by a concert of classical music. And in the evening news broadcast, it was briefly reported that "during the parade, a resident of Leningrad fired a gun into the air, there were no casualties." Shmonov was eventually recognized as mentally ill and sent to forced treatment. Although a few months before the attempt, he completely calmly received a certificate from a psychiatrist to buy a weapon. After four years of "treatment", already after the collapse of the USSR, he was released with the II group of disabilities. He worked as a plumber, then founded a small business, and in the late 1990s unsuccessfully tried to run for the State Duma. Subsequently, Shmonov became a human rights defender and took care of people who suffered from forced psychiatric treatment. When, many years later, he was asked if he regretted his act, Shmonov answered: "The only thing I regret is that I didnʼt hit him then.” Translated from Ukrainian by Anton Semyzhenko. It is said that history has the ability to repeat itself. Babel will certainly wait for this repetition thanks to your donations: 🔸 in hryvnia, 🔸 in cryptocurrency, 🔸 Patreon, 🔸 PayPal: [email protected].


--- [The last Soviet terrorist: The man who tried to assassinate Gorbachev] ---
Unlike with Victor Ilyin—another famous would-be-assassin who fired at Leonid Brezhnev and was also sent to forced treatment instead of getting the death penalty—Shmonov's experience in the psychiatric facility took a heavy toll. Ruslan Shamukov/RBTHUnlike with Victor Ilyin—another famous would-be-assassin who fired at Leonid Brezhnev and was also sent to forced treatment instead of getting the death penalty—Shmonov's experience in the psychiatric facility took a heavy toll. Source: Ruslan Shamukov/RBTH Alexander Shmonov is a very hospitable host. As I enter his home, he allows me to keep my jacket on and offers me some tea and cake, telling me to come in and sit wherever I like. However, there is nowhere to sit, as his entire studio apartment, including the one bed, is filled with boxes of rags. It is not entirely clear where Alexander sleeps or eats, given that even in the kitchen there is not a single empty spot. In the end, I start speaking with Shmonov while still standing. "I've just moved in," he says, trying to justify the mess. He begins to tell me about his plans for the future, which are rather strange for a 64-year-old pensioner. "I sold the place I used to live a month ago and used the money to buy an apartment in a new building that’s still in the construction phase. That’s why, for the time being, I’m renting this place. As soon as they finish the building, I'll sell that apartment for much more than I bought it. I'll keep part of the money, and with the rest I'll hire three programmers who will bring my invention to life." There is nowhere to sit, as his entire studio apartment, including the one bed, is filled with boxes of rags. It is not entirely clear where Alexander sleeps or eats, given that even in the kitchen there is not a single empty spot. Source: Ruslan Shamukov/RBTH Shmonov has been working on the invention for several years and, casting modesty aside, refers to it as "a breakthrough," albeit one he has thus far been unsuccessful in patenting. Its official title is "Methods of invention with which three programmers can easily create software with which a computer can invent many inventions without the help of man." Over the years, last would-be-assassin of the Soviet period has produced more than two dozen such inventions, all of which he tries to tell me about. There is "Method for increasing the average living standard of all Russian non-businessmen by two or three times within one year." And "Method to significantly reduce the number and degree of customer deceptions." Or "Method for improving citizens and creating copies of people for this." There is even "Method for improving a man's sexual potential without the use of medicine," which consists solely of the following explanation: "For improving a man's sexual capabilities, a man must always (that is day and night) keep his legs apart." All of this testifies to the fact that, unlike with Victor Ilyin—another famous would-be-assassin who fired at Leonid Brezhnev and was also sent to forced treatment instead of getting the death penalty—Shmonov's experience in the psychiatric facility took a heavy toll. Shmonov has been working on the invention for several years and, casting modesty aside, refers to it as "a breakthrough." Over the years, last would-be-assassin of the Soviet period has produced more than two dozen such inventions, all of which he tries to tell me about. Source: Ruslan Shamukov/RBTH In general, their stories are very similar. Just like Ilyin, Shmonov was born in Leningrad (currently St. Petersburg) and was a respectable Soviet citizen who studied at a construction-architectural technical school and worked as an engineer in a factory until he "saw the light." "In 1975, after Brezhnev signed the Helsinki Accords, the Soviet Union temporarily stopped blocking the BBC and Voice of America radio stations,” Alexander explains. “It was there that for the first time I heard the truth about what was going on in the USSR, about the persecution of dissidents. And I understood that the totalitarian regime was terrible." Alexander Shmonov. / Source: Ruslan Shamukov/RBTH Just like Ilyin, Shmonov sent the Kremlin a letter with an ultimatum demanding direct nationwide presidential and parliamentary elections. And, just as with Ilyin, upon not receiving an answer, he decided to assassinate the leader of the Soviet Union. To implement his plan he went to Moscow for the festivities surrounding the 73rd anniversary of the October Revolution (which in the Gregorian calendar actually took place in November). The celebrations included a parade on Red Square and a salute from Gorbachev, who would mark the celebration standing on Vladimir Lenin’s mausoleum. "I told my wife I'd be at the dacha taking care of the garden, but in reality I got on the train and went to the capital," Alexander says. I ask Alexander if he is acquainted with Ilyin. St. Petersburg is perhaps the only city in the world where two people who made assassinate attempts on a head of state live happily and peacefully. "No, we've never met, but of course I know his story," Shmonov tell me. He adds that there is one thing that distinguishes his assassination attempt from that of Ilyin: "I did not act alone. I had an accomplice." Alexander Shmonov, center, during election campaign in Kolpino (Leningrad suburb), spring 1990. On the demonstration on red Red Square on Nov. 7, 1990. Source: M. Sharapov/RIA Novosti Shmonov met his accomplice at a meeting of the Leningrad People's Front. In the beginning of the 1990s, the country went through a drastic decline in living standards. This was accompanied by reforms allowing for increased freedom of speech and media. As a result, a strong protest movement evolved during the final years of the USSR, with anti-Soviet demonstrations that drew hundreds of thousands of people taking place in Moscow and Leningrad. This photo shows Alexander Shmonov (with a poster) in spring 1990 during the election campaign in Kolpino suburb of Leningrad. During the holiday demonstration on Red Square on Nov. 7, 1990 Shmonov fired a sawed-off shotgun at the Mausoleum. Source: M. Sharapov/RIA Novosti The Leningrad People's Front was an unregistered social organization that consisted of around 2,000 members and demanded the democratization of the political system. Shmonov joined in 1989. In the spring of the following year he was approached at one of the meetings by a colleague who jokingly noted that, in the event of a revolution, he had a gun. "That is when I got the idea of an accomplice," Alexander says. "After all, it would be difficult to implement my plan alone." Mikhail Gorbachev together with Boris Yeltsin during the military parade and demonstration, devoted to the 73rd anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution on Nov. 7, 1990. Source: Vladimir Musaelyan/TASS It did not take long to convince Alexander's friend. Three weeks before the assassination attempt, Alexander bought a double-barreled hunting rifle. "We agreed that we'd both walk in the column of people at the parade, and when we got to the front of the mausoleum, I'd take out the rifle and take aim at Gorbachev. At that moment, so that no one would get in my way, my accomplice would take out another gun and demand that no one approach me or else he would open fire. But when the time came to do this, he panicked. At the last moment he just continued walking along with the column of people. I took out my rifle and was spotted immediately. While I was removing the safety catch and taking aim, an officer ran over and jerked the rifle by the barrel. That's why the bullets went past Gorbachev. Then the crowd jumped on me…" Scheme of the assassination attempt at Gorbachev on Nov. 7, 1990. Source: Kirill Polukhin/RBTH I ask Shmonov whether he now considers Gorbachev a strange choice for a target. After all, it was Gorbachev who started Perestroika, opened the country’s borders and stopped censorship of the mass media. But Alexander remains adamant in his position. "He was directly involved in the deaths of people in Baku and Tbilisi. He did not follow in the direction of freedom that he himself had declared. In 1990, I was arrested three times for distributing flyers calling on people not to vote for members of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.” After the unsuccessful assassination attempt, Shmonov was taken to Lefortovo Prison. "I was there for a month," he recalls, "after which I was deemed insane and sent to the loony bin, although I was always conscious of my actions. They just didn't want to make a national hero out of me. So they declared me mad. And all this despite the fact that when I was buying the weapon I went through all the tests and received a certificate of mental health." Surprisingly, Shmonov speaks calmly about the horrors he witnessed in the municipal psychiatric clinic. "The conditions were like in a concentration camp. There was absolutely no air to breathe. All the windows and fortochkas (small ventilation windows—RBTH) were boarded up. The place had not been aired out for years, and we were not allowed outside, although this right was guaranteed by law. I wrote to the prosecutor's office, complaining about the conditions. The head doctor found out, came into my room and told me directly: 'Well, hold onto yourself now. No more pills. Just heavy injections.' Do you know what Fluphenazine is? It's when, after the injection, you can’t stand, sit or lie down. Your body jerks around constantly. That injection lasts a month. Three months later I wrote my mother. ‘Do something, convince the doctor, give him a bribe, just get me out of here.’ I basically didn’t sleep that whole time. In the end, she somehow managed to persuade the doctor, and they stopped giving me the injections. After that, I didn't complain about the conditions." Police and passers-by detain Shmonov in the Red square after Shmonov made two shots from a sawn-off sporting gun during the festive demonstration. Source: Sergey Subbotin/RIA Novosti Shmonov says it took him five years to recover from this "treatment." He still needed to get out of the clinic though. "I don't know what saved me," he says. "My father was chief at a police station, a colonel. He ran around pestering everyone with letters, trying to go through different channels. When Yeltsin became president, I wrote him, ‘Dear Boris Nikolaevich, in 1990 I collected 200 signatures in your support, please help improve my situation.’ Then, during a psychiatric exam (these took place every six months, and I was always diagnosed with ‘delirium,’ that is, ‘incorrect judgment, unwilling to change his mind’) I decided to pretend that I had realized my mistake, that it had been wrong to shoot at Gorbachev, and I repented. In the end the committee determined that I was in a state of remission, and I was set free." When I asked Shmonov if he thinks his actions were a mistake, he simply replied: "No. My relation to Gorbachev has not changed." That said, Mikhail Gorbachev, who will turn 86 years old this year, does not need to worry. The person who once tried to kill him is now completely consumed by different schemes and inventions. Source: RBTHvideo/YouTube If using any of Russia Beyond's content, partly or in full, always provide an active hyperlink to the original material. Subscribe to our newsletter! Get the week's best stories straight to your inbox


--- [Gunman Reportedly Wanted to Kill Gorbachev - Los Angeles Times] ---
Gunman Reportedly Wanted to Kill Gorbachev - Share via MOSCOW — The man who fired shots during the Revolution Day parade on Red Square last week was attempting to assassinate Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, but a police sergeant overpowered him, forcing the shots into the air, Soviet newspapers reported Thursday. A KGB investigator working on the case said the gunman had prepared for more than two years to kill Gorbachev by practicing his marksmanship in the woods and had chosen his gun carefully, according to an interview in Glasnost due to hit the newsstands today. The investigator, Pyotr A. Sokolov, told the Communist Party weekly the imported gun was purchased for 900 rubles, about $1,620 at the artificially inflated official rate. “I wanted to kill Gorbachev,” the gunman, Alexander A. Shmonov, said after he was apprehended, according to a report in the liberal tabloid Moscow News. Shmonov’s confession was reportedly related to the newspaper by Sgt. Andrei Mylnikov, who was said to have foiled the assassination attempt. The latest accounts shed a dramatically different light on the Nov. 7 incident. Earlier official reports had said the gunman stood about 100 yards from Gorbachev and fired a sawed-off shotgun, which would not be likely conditions for a successful assassination. Mylnikov, however, said the weapon had been a hunting rifle, with which a marksman could make an accurate shot. Also contradicting previous reports, Sokolov told Glasnost that the shooting occurred about 50 yards from the Lenin Mausoleum, where Gorbachev was standing at the time. Glasnost said that a note was found on Shmonov that “explicitly set out his criminal intentions” toward Gorbachev. The gunman wrote the note in case he was killed, Sokolov said. Shmonov, a machinist who joined a radical party, was charged with attempted terrorism.


--- [Gunman Had Plan to Kill Gorbachev - Los Angeles Times] ---
Gunman Had Plan to Kill Gorbachev - Share via MOSCOW — The man who tried to shoot at Soviet leaders during last week’s Revolution Day parade had been planning to kill President Mikhail S. Gorbachev for more than two years, Soviet news reports said today. Alexander A. Shmonov, a 38-year-old unemployed man from Leningrad, was charged with attempted terrorism in the Nov. 7 shooting on Red Square. Shmonov managed to fire two shots but was prevented by police from aiming at Gorbachev and other Soviet leaders, who were observing the traditional military parade from atop Lenin’s Mausoleum. No one was hurt. Col. Pyotr Sokolov, a top KGB investigator, told the newspaper Glasnost that a body search of Shmonov turned up a note confirming that Gorbachev was his intended victim. “The note was prepared in advance in case of his death during the assassination attempt,” Sokolov said in an interview. “In the note, Shmonov explicitly set out his criminal intentions in regard to the Soviet president.” According to Glasnost, the shooting took place just 46 yards from the mausoleum. Police said an officer had noticed Shmonov pulling out a hunting rifle and aiming at the Soviet leaders on the mausoleum. The officer forced the gun barrel skyward before Shmonov fired the two shots. He was then grabbed by more security men. “Shmonov said he had been preparing this assassination attempt for more than two years,” Sokolov told the newspaper. “During that time, he acquired an imported double-barreled hunting rifle and practiced rapid firing.” Another newspaper, Rabochaya Trybuna, said Shmonov had a hunting license and bought the weapon legally for $1,600. “He went to a public library to read about the correct way to prepare a cartridge and asked some questions of hunters who were in the store,” the newspaper said. “To carry the gun into Red Square, he sawed off the butt and fixed a kind of pocket made of rubbery material inside his jacket,” the report said, quoting an official in the state prosecutor’s office. Sgt. Andrei Mylnikov, the police officer who subdued Shmonov during the shooting, said in an interview with Moscow News on Wednesday that the gunman told investigators: “I wanted to kill Gorbachev.”
