=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sidney Abbott - Wikipedia]
Sidney Abbott (July 11, 1937 – April 15, 2015) was an American feminist and lesbian activist and writer. A former member of the Lavender Menace, she co-authored Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism with Barbara Love, and was one of the most vocal and active members in the National Organization for Women, helping the organization to focus on not just women's rights in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sidney_Abbott

[Sidney Abbott video recordings, 1995 · Lesbian Herstory Archives ...]
Abbott co-authored the groundbreaking Sappho Was A Right-On Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism (1971) with her partner, Barbara Love. In 2007, she created the non-profit organization Women’s Rights Are Human Rights and in 2008 launched the In Our Shoes newsletter which examined issues of class, poverty, and politics.
URL: https://herstories.prattinfoschool.nyc/omeka/collections/show/101

[Sidney Abbott Explained]
Abbott lived in Southold, New York. In 2007, she founded the Women's Rights are Human Rights nonprofit. In 2008, she started a newsletter, In Our Shoes, about politics, class, and poverty. Her personal archives are located in the Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College and in the Radcliff College feminist collection of NOW biographies. [1] [3 ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Sidney_Abbott/

[Collection: Sidney Abbott papers | Smith College Finding Aids]
Abbott worked in New York in city government positions related to social policy, mental health and planning. She was a founding member of the National Gay Task Force and a board member and coordinator of the National Organization for Women's task force for civil rights for lesbians.
URL: https://findingaids.smith.edu/repositories/2/resources/1076

[Sidney Abbott: Sappho's 'Right-On Woman' - The Gay & Lesbian Review]
Nov 2, 2015 · Later, she was one of the founding board members of the National Gay Task Force as well as the founder of the nonprofit organization Women’s Rights are Human Rights. On a personal note, I met Sidney in the late ’70s when I was co-director of a women’s counseling center, the Feminist Center for Human Growth and Development in New York.
URL: https://glreview.org/article/sidney-abbott-sapphos-right-on-woman/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sidney Abbott - Wikipedia] ---
Sidney Abbott (July 11, 1937 – April 15, 2015) was an American feminist and lesbian activist and writer. A former member of the Lavender Menace, she co-authored Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism with Barbara Love, and was one of the most vocal and active members in the National Organization for Women, helping the organization to focus on not just women's rights in general, but lesbian rights, as well.




--- [Sidney Abbott video recordings, 1995 · Lesbian Herstory Archives ...] ---
Sidney Abbott video recordings, 1995 Title Sidney Abbott video recordings, 1995 Description Sidney Abbott was a lesbian, feminist author and activist. She was a member of the Gay Liberation Front (GLF) and the National Organization for Women (NOW), and was a former member–as many of the GLF and NOW membership were–of the lesbian radical feminist group Lavender Menace. Abbott co-authored the groundbreaking Sappho Was A Right-On Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism (1971) with her partner, Barbara Love. In 2007, she created the non-profit organization Women’s Rights Are Human Rights and in 2008 launched the In Our Shoes newsletter which examined issues of class, poverty, and politics. Abbott tragically passed away in a house fire in Southold, New York on April 15, 2015. Audio recordings of Abbott can be found in the Lesbian Nation digital exhibition. Audio recordings of Abbott can be found in the Lesbian Nation digital exhibition. Collection Tree - Sidney Abbott video recordings, 1995


--- [Sidney Abbott Explained] ---
No content


--- [Collection: Sidney Abbott papers | Smith College Finding Aids] ---
Sidney Abbott papers Scope and Contents This very small collection includes a few pieces of correspondence (notably with Alma Routsong, Beva Eastman, and Kate Millett); writings; photographs; printed material; and biographical material. Dates of Materials - 1971-1997 Conditions Governing Access Closed pending deed of gift. Conditions Governing Use Materials in this collection may be governed by copyright. For reproductions of materials that are governed by fair use as defined under U. S. Copyright Law, no permission to cite or publish is required. Researchers are responsible for determining who may hold materials' copyrights and obtaining approval from them. Researchers do not need anything further from Smith College Special Collections to move forward with their use. Biographical Note Abbott was born in Washington, D.C. in 1937 to a military family that moved around the country. Nonconformity contributed to a checkered educational career in a succession of high schools, prep schools, and at Smith College where she was asked to leave during her senior year because of academic problems, her open lesbianism, and an ongoing identity crisis. She completed her undergraduate education at the University of New Mexico. In the 1960s while working in New York as a writer and editor she earned a master's degree in Urban Planning from Columbia University where she met Kate Millett and became a member of one of the earliest consciousness-raising groups, which included Millett and other notable feminists. In 1972 she co-authored with Barbara Love the landmark book,"Sappho Was a Right On Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism,"which pointed out discrimination against lesbians and presented ideas for a liberated future for them. Abbott worked in New York in city government positions related to social policy, mental health and planning. She was a founding member of the National Gay Task Force and a board member and coordinator of the National Organization for Women's task force for civil rights for lesbians. At the time the collection was donated she was currently at work on a book about supergroup 1. Abbott died on April 15, 2015. Extent 0.229 linear feet (1 container) Language of Materials English Immediate Source of Acquisition Donated by Sidney Abbott in 1997. - Title - Sidney Abbott papers - Description rules - Describing Archives: A Content Standard - Language of description - English - Script of description - Latin Revision Statements - 2017-07-26T17:48:24-04:00: This record was migrated from InMagic DB Textworks to ArchivesSpace. - 2021-10-25: Updated notes and published Repository Details Part of the Sophia Smith Collection of Women's History Repository


--- [Sidney Abbott: Sappho's 'Right-On Woman' - The Gay & Lesbian Review] ---
No content
