=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gael García Bernal - Latino Observatory]
Jan 17, 2024 · When he was fourteen, García Bernal taught the indigenous people of Mexico to read, often working with the Huichol people. At the age of fifteen, he participated in peaceful demonstrations in support of the Zapatista uprising of 1994.
URL: https://www.latinoobservatory.org/noticia.php?lang=en&ID=703

[Gael Garcia Bernal - Bio, Age, Parents, Siblings, Amores ... - FactCeleb]
Gael García Bernal is a Mexican actor who put Mexican movies on the global map. From the Oscar-nominated movie Amores Perros to Mozart in the Jungle to the animated film Coco, he has played it all. And here are the facts about him, you must know!
URL: https://factceleb.com/biography/gael-garcia-bernal-bio-age-parents-siblings-amores-perros-coco-the-motorcycle-diaries-wife-children-divorce-net-worth-height/

[Gael García Bernal - Wikiwand]
He started acting at just one year old and spent most of his teen years starring in telenovelas. García Bernal and frequent collaborator Diego Luna were friends from childhood in Mexico City. [6] When he was fourteen, García Bernal taught indigenous people in Mexico to read, often working with the Huichol people. [7]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Gael_Garc%C3%ADa

[Gael García Bernal - Reference.org]
García Bernal and frequent collaborator Diego Luna were friends from childhood in Mexico City. 6 When he was fourteen, García Bernal taught indigenous people in Mexico to read, often working with the Huichol people. 7 At the age of fifteen, he took part in peaceful demonstrations in support of the Zapatista uprising of 1994. 89
URL: https://reference.org/facts/gael_garcia_bernal/TCYx0eEl

[Gael García Bernal]
When he was fourteen, García Bernal taught indigenous people in Mexico to read, often working with the Huichol people. At the age of fifteen, he took ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gael_Garc%C3%ADa_Bernal


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gael García Bernal - Latino Observatory] ---
Born in 1978 in Guadalajara, Mexico, Bernal is known for his performances in a variety of acclaimed films, including “Amores perros” (2000), “Y tu mamá también” (2001), “The Motorcycle Diaries” (2004), “Coco” (2017), and “Old” (2021). In addition to his film career, the text highlights Bernal’s involvement in social projects andactivism. He co-founded the production company Canana Films in Mexico City with fellow actor Diego Luna. Bernal was also recognized for his participation in initiatives such as the four short films called “Los Invisibles”, produced in collaboration with Amnesty International, addressing migration issues in Central America. When he was fourteen, García Bernal taught the indigenous people of Mexico to read, often working with the Huichol people. At the age of fifteen, he participated in peaceful demonstrations in support of the Zapatista uprising of 1994. He began studying philosophy at UNAM, Mexico's national university, but during a prolonged student strike, he took a sabbatical to travel around Europe. He then moved to London and became the first Mexican accepted to study at the Central School of Speech and Drama. Bernal also attended the European Graduate School to earn a master's degree in media and communication. Among some of Bernal’s most significant roles is his portrayal of Che Guevara in “The Motorcycle Diaries”, which earned him a BAFTA nomination in 2005. He won his first Golden Globe in 2016 for his role in the television series “Mozart in the Jungle”. In addition to his career in entertainment, Bernal is involved in social projects such as founding the “Ambulante Documentary Film Festival” and his contribution to Amnesty International's documentary short series, “Los Invisibles”. He received the Washington Office on Latin America's Human Rights Award in 2011 for this work. Most recently, in October 2019, García Bernal and Diego Luna announced they would join the Creative Advisory Board of TV and film development company EXILE Content along with Adam Grant. In 2021, García Bernal starred in M. Night Shyamalan’s thriller Old. In November 2021, Bernal was cast in Marvel Studios’ Disney+ special Werewolf by Night, based on the comic book character of the same name. García Bernal and Argentine actress Dolores Fonzi met on the set of Private Lives in 2001. On January 8, 2009, their son was born in Madrid, Spain. Their daughter was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina on April 4, 2011. He divides his time between Buenos Aires and Mexico City. He has been in a relationship with Mexican journalist Fernanda Aragonés since 2019. Bernal describes himself as “culturally Catholic but spiritually agnostic”. Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gael_Garc%C3%ADa_Bernal


--- [Gael Garcia Bernal - Bio, Age, Parents, Siblings, Amores ... - FactCeleb] ---
Biography - Gael García Bernal Who is Gael García Bernal? Gael García Bernal is a Mexican actor who put Mexican movies on the global map. From the Oscar-nominated movie Amores Perros to Mozart in the Jungle to the animated film Coco, he has played it all. And here are the facts about him, you must know! Gael García Bernal – Age, Parents, Siblings Gael García Bernal’s birth took place on 30 November 1978 in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico. His mother is Patricia Bernal, an actress, and former model and his father is José Ángel García, an actor and director. After his parents divorced, Gael García Bernal’s mother married Sergio Yazbek, a screenwriter. He has one half-brother, Dario Yazbek Bernal, and one half-sister, Tamara Yazbek. Growing up, he was very much influenced by his parent's profession and got into acting at a very young age. Also, Bernal has volunteered as an activist from a young age. At the age of 14, he taught indigenous people in Mexico to read, focusing more on the Huichol people. In the year 1994, when he was just 15 years old, he took part in peaceful demonstrations during the Chiapas uprising. Education, Ethnicity After completing his school level, Gael García Bernal attended UNAM to study philosophy. However, a prolonged student strike halted his education. During this time, he traveled to Europe. Soon, he moved to London, England, and enrolled in the Central School of Speech and Drama, making him the first Mexican to study there. His ethnicity includes Latin, Hispanic, Italian, and Portuguese. Also read: Alexa Demie - Mexican-American Actress Gael García Bernal – Girlfriend, Wife, Children, Divorce Gael García Bernal has dated several high-profile celebrities- Cecilia Suárez and Natalie Portman. But these relationships did not evolve from affairs to marriage. Gael García Bernal met Dolores Fonzi, also an actress in 2001. They had met on the set of Vidas privadas. They first became friends and maintained such till 2008. The same year their relationship status was upgraded to girlfriend/ boyfriend. Many thought that Bernal and Fonzi were a married couple, but the couple never did and she was not his wife. Their son Lázaro Bernal was born on 8 January 2009 in Madrid, Spain. The lovey-dovey couple’s second child, a healthy baby girl was born on 4 April 2011 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and named her Libertad García Fonzi. Sadly, Bernal and his long-time girlfriend Fonzi separated in September 2014 and are co-parenting their two children. Since 2019 Bernal has been in a romantic relationship with Mexican journalist Fernanda Aragonés. The couple welcomed their first child on 30 September 2021. Currently, Gael García Bernal resides between Mexico City and Buenos Aires. Also read: George Lopez - Mexican Actor, Comedian Gael García Bernal – Career Early Days Bernal’s career started at a very young age- when he was just 1 year old. As he grew up into his teens, Gael García Bernal starred mostly in telenovelas. Now, let’s jump to his career in his adult days. He found success in soap operas. Eventually, Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu offered Gael García Bernal a role in the movie Amores Perros (2000). The movie was a massive success- earning nominations for an Oscar and Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. Also read: Andy Ruiz Jr.- Mexican Boxer Films, Series After this big breakthrough in his acting career, he went on to star in movies/films such as Y tu mamá también (2001), El crimen del Padre Amaro (2002), Fidel (2002), The Motorcycle Diaries (2004), The Science of Sleep, The King, etc. Since 2008, he has worked in movies/shows including Blindness, Rudo y Cursi, Even the Rain (2010), Casa de Mi Padre, Ciudades Desiertas, Rosewater, Zorro Reborn, Zoom, Mozart in the Jungle, Desierto (2016), Neruda (2016), Coco (2017), The Kindergarten Teacher (2018). His directional debut Déficit was released in 2007. Other movies Gael García Bernal has directed are Los Invisibles (2010). He is the co-owner of Canana Films, while Diego Luna is the other co-owner. Co-stars On the set of The Motorcycle Diaries, Gael García Bernal worked with Mía Maestro, Mercedes Morán, Marina Glezer, Jean Pierre Noher, and Rodrigo de la Serna. Also read: Olivia Rodrigo - Actress, Signer, Songwriter Gael García Bernal – Awards, Nominations For his dedicated work in theatre and movies, he has been nominated for BAFTA in 2005 for Best Performance by an Actor. Bernal won a Golden Globe Award in 2016 for his work in Mozart in the Jungle and a Washington Office on Latin America's Human Rights Award in 2011. Gael García Bernal – Net Worth, Salary The net worth of Bernal is estimated to be around $12 million but the figure for his annual salary is unknown. Gael García Bernal – Instagram, Twitter, Facebook On social media platforms, Gael García Bernal has millions of followers on Instagram and Twitter but is absent from Facebook. Also read: Juanpa Zurita - American-Mexican YouTuber, Model, Actor Fact Check We endeavour for accuracy. If you believe our content has any misinformation, violates your copyright, or you want to propose an update, please feel free to contact us.


--- [Gael García Bernal - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Gael García Bernal - Reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Gael García Bernal] ---
Gael García Bernal (Spanish: [ɡaˈel ɣaɾˈsi.a βeɾˈnal]; born 30 November 1978) is a Mexican actor and filmmaker. He is known for his performances in the films Amores perros (2000), Y tu mamá también (2001), Bad Education (2004), The Motorcycle Diaries (2004), Babel (2006), Coco (2017), Old (2021), Cassandro (2023) and Magellan (2025). On television, he portrayed music conductor Rodrigo De Souza in the series Mozart in the Jungle (2014–2018), and starred as the titular character in the Disney+ special Werewolf by Night (2022).
García Bernal was nominated for a BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role for his portrayal of a young Che Guevara in The Motorcycle Diaries in 2005, and in 2016 won his first Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy for Mozart in the Jungle. He and fellow actor Diego Luna founded the production company Canana Films in Mexico City. In 2016, Time magazine named him in the annual Time 100 most influential people list. In 2020, The New York Times ranked him No. 25 in its list of the 25 Greatest Actors of the 21st Century.


