=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Archibald J. Motley Jr. The Octoroon Girl, 1925 | Archibald Motley ...]
Archibald Motley: Jazz Age Modernist is organized and curated by Richard J. Powell, John Spencer Bassett Professor of Art, Art History & Visual Studies at Duke University. Archibald Motley: Jazz Age Modernist is made possible by the Terra Foundation for American Art; the National Endowment for the Humanities: Exploring the human endeavor; and the Henry Luce Foundation. Major support is ...
URL: https://archives.nasher.duke.edu/motley/project/octoroon-girl/index.html

[The Octoroon Girl | The Morgan Library & Museum]
THE OCTOROON GIRL The portrait and genre-scene painter Archibald Motley Jr. made a series of three works that portray African American women based on their Creole racial classifications, including The Octoroon Girl, the most famous, as well as A Mulatress (1924) and The Quadroon (1927).
URL: https://www.themorgan.org/exhibitions/online/belle-da-costa-greene/9

[Archibald J. Motley Jr., The Octoroon Girl, 1925 | Whitney ...]
Narrator: This young woman looks us right in the eye. This is the first clue Motley gives us about her personality. What others do you notice? Artists often use people's hands to tell us about their mood or character—and this woman's rest calmly in her lap, perfectly manicured, gently grasping an elegant pair of gloves. And what about the colors he's used? Most of the painting is dark ...
URL: https://whitney.org/media/1260

[The Octoroon Girl, 1925 - Haitian Art Society]
The Octoroon Girl, 1925. Motley, Archibald J., Jr. (American, 1891 - 1981). Oil on canvas 38 × 30 1/4 in. (96.5 × 76.8 cm). Painting. The Octoroon Girl, 1925.
URL: https://haitianartsociety.org/the-octoroon-girl-1925

[The Octoroon Girl | painting by Motley | Britannica]
Other articles where The Octoroon Girl is discussed: Archibald Motley: Career: …same year for his painting The Octoroon Girl (1925), he received the Harmon Foundation gold medal in fine arts, which included a $400 award. (The Harmon Foundation was established in 1922 by white real-estate developer William E. Harmon and was one of the first to recognize African American achievements ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/topic/The-Octoroon-Girl


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Archibald J. Motley Jr. The Octoroon Girl, 1925 | Archibald Motley ...] ---
Archibald J. Motley Jr., The Octoroon Girl, 1925. Oil on canvas, 38 x 30.25 inches (96.5 x 76.8 cm). Courtesy of Michael Rosenfeld Gallery, LLC, New York, New York. © Valerie Gerrard Browne.


--- [The Octoroon Girl | The Morgan Library & Museum] ---
Listen to co-curator Erica Ciallela talk about Archibald Motley Jr.’s painting The Octoroon Girl and read Georgia Douglas Johnson’s poem “The Octoroon” (1922). THE OCTOROON GIRL The portrait and genre-scene painter Archibald Motley Jr. made a series of three works that portray African American women based on their Creole racial classifications, including The Octoroon Girl, the most famous, as well as A Mulatress (1924) and The Quadroon (1927). The sitter in The Octoroon Girl, as in the sister paintings, remains nameless. She is only identified by her race, which is one-eighth Black. Born into a mixed-race family, Motley was raised in New Orleans and Chicago and experienced firsthand how these complex classifications determined social status and privilege. ERICA: The painter Archibald Motley Jr., like so many artists during the Harlem Renaissance, wanted to create images that highlighted the fullness of the Black experience while drawing attention to issues facing the community. He accomplished this aim beautifully through this elegant portrait that brings race, gender, and class into conversation, while reflecting his own background within the nuanced system of racial identity practiced in New Orleans. Three years before this painting was made, the poet Georgia Douglas Johnson wrote a poem titled “The Octoroon.” If Motley Jr.’s work appears to recognize and celebrate the sitter’s mixed-race identity, Johnson’s poem reminds us that, in the 1920s United States, the one-drop rule was starting to replace gradations of racial identity with the inflexible binary of “Black” and “White.” “The Octoroon” (1922) by Georgia Douglas Johnson One drop of midnight in the dawn of life’s pulsating stream Marks her an alien from her kind, a shade amid its gleam; Forevermore her step she bends insular, strange, apart— And none can read the riddle of her wildly warring heart. The stormy current of her blood beats like a mighty sea Against the man-wrought iron bars of her captivity. For refuge, succor, peace and rest, she seeks that humble fold Whose every breath is kindliness, whose hearts are purest gold.


--- [Archibald J. Motley Jr., The Octoroon Girl, 1925 | Whitney ...] ---
Archibald J. Motley Jr., The Octoroon Girl, 1925 Oct 2, 2015 0:00 Archibald J. Motley Jr., The Octoroon Girl, 1925 0:00 Narrator: This young woman looks us right in the eye. This is the first clue Motley gives us about her personality. What others do you notice? Artists often use people’s hands to tell us about their mood or character—and this woman’s rest calmly in her lap, perfectly manicured, gently grasping an elegant pair of gloves. And what about the colors he’s used? Most of the painting is dark, but her collar, lips, and cheeks stand out in bold red. Everything about this woman suggests that she is confident in herself. Motley’s portraits of African Americans generally express great dignity. Motley hoped that seeing themselves portrayed in art would help black people feel proud and confident in their identities. He also wanted to help white people see the beauty and accomplishments of African Americans, hoping this might dispel negative stereotypes and racism. While this woman looks modern, the title Motley gave this painting is old-fashioned. It’s Octoroon Girl. “Octoroon” is an out-of-date term for a person who is one-eighth African American, and usually had somewhat lighter skin—nobody uses this term anymore. Motley once said that he wanted to paint every African-American skin tone there was, from dark to light—showing the beauty of all. In Archibald Motley: Jazz Age Modernist (Kids).


--- [The Octoroon Girl, 1925 - Haitian Art Society] ---
Haitian Art Society Toggle navigation Menu Join About Overview Conferences Contact Us Board of Directors Regional Chapters Artists All Artists Flag (Drapo) Metal Mixed Media Collections Collections Overview Collection Highlights Gessen Collection Haitian Masterworks at the Figge Milwaukee Art Museum Beverly and John Fox Sullivan Public Collections A - L Le Centre dArt Figge Art Museum Fowler Museum at UCLA Patricia and Philip Frost Art Museum Edith A. Graham Collection Hirshhorn Museum Huntington Museum of Art Island On Fire (1997) M - Z Milwaukee Art Museum MOMA - NYC Musee d'Art Haitien El Museo del Barrio - NYC Selden Rodman Gallery at Ramapo College Siri von Reis Waterloo Center for the Arts Member Collections A - F Pia and Gerald Alexis Collection Beasley Collection Jonathan Cheek Collection Matt Dunn Collection Gary Emich and Margaret L. Gerard Trust Fisher Collection Fondation Marie et Georges S. Nader Franciscus Collection Fulling Collection G - L P. C. Gardere Collection Gessen Collection Kay and Roderick Heller Patrick Jamieson Collection Stanley L. Joseph Collection Anne Kennedy Heirs M - Z Penette-Kedar Collection Racine-Silva Collection Marcus Rediker Collection Betty and Isaac Rudman Trust Drs. Roslyn and Lloyd Siegel Collection Yvonne and Glenn Stokes Beverly and John Fox Sullivan Anonymous Private Collection A10011 Private Collection A10013 Flag Collections Ford-Smith Collection Gessen Collection Marilyn Houlberg Collection Nancy Josephson Collection Salvatore Scalora Collection Afro-Atlantic Histories Curated Collections Virtual Tours Matt Dunn Collection Tour Betty and Isaac Rudman Collection Beverly and John Fox Sullivan Collection Virtual Tour Didier William at MOCA-NOMI Matt Dunn Exhibition at Kunstmatrix News Zoomable Haitian Art Spirit & Strength: Modern Art From Haiti Review in WAPO Blog Postcard from Haiti... Feb 2026 May 2025 DEC 2024 NOV 2024 OCT 2024 SEP 2024 AUG 2024 JUL 2024 JUN 2024 MAY 2024 APR 2024 Calendar Veve Credits Issue 12 - November 2025 Issue 11 - January 2025 Issue 10 - May 2024 Issue 9-November 2023 Issue 8-April 2023 Issue 7-December 2022 Issue 6-July 2022 Issue 5-February 2022 Issue 4-November 2021 Issue 3-July 2021 Issue 2-April 2021 Issue 1-February 2021 Resources Auction Houses Books Exhibitions Galleries Haitian Art Links Museums Videos Login The Octoroon Girl, 1925 Motley, Archibald J., Jr. (American, 1891 - 1981) Oil on canvas 38 × 30 1/4 in. (96.5 × 76.8 cm) Painting Motley, Archibald J., Jr. (American, 1891 - 1981)


--- [The Octoroon Girl | painting by Motley | Britannica] ---
The Octoroon Girl painting by Motley Learn about this topic in these articles: discussed in biography - In Archibald Motley: Career …same year for his painting The Octoroon Girl (1925), he received the Harmon Foundation gold medal in fine arts, which included a $400 award. (The Harmon Foundation was established in 1922 by white real-estate developer William E. Harmon and was one of the first to recognize African American achievements, particularly… Read More
