=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Padma Vibhushan - Wikipedia]
On 15 December 1995, the Special Division Bench restored the awards and delivered a judgment that the "Bharat Ratna and Padma awards are not titles under Article 18 of the Constitution of India".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Padma_Vibhushan

[Padma Vibhushan]
... judgment that the "Bharat Ratna and Padma awards are not titles under Article 18 of the Constitution of India". Regulations. The award is conferred for ...
URL: https://india.fandom.com/wiki/Padma_Vibhushan

[Padma Bhushan]
... judgment that the "Bharat Ratna and Padma awards are not titles under Article 18 of the Constitution of India." Regulations. edit. The award is conferred ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Padma_Bhushan

[Who+are+the+five+judges+of+the+Supreme+Court+who+restored+the ...]
Dec 15, 1995 · According to this judgment the provisions of amended section 23 (2) would be attracted even in a case where the award of the Collector or the court was prior to April 30, 1982 provided an appeal was pending before the High Court or the Supreme Court on the date of introduction of the corresponding Land Acquisition Amendment Bill in Parliament.
URL: https://www.casemine.com/search/in/Who%2Bare%2Bthe%2Bfive%2Bjudges%2Bof%2Bthe%2BSupreme%2BCourt%2Bwho%2Brestored%2Bthe%2Bawards%2Band%2Bdelivered%2Ba%2Bjudgment%2Bthat%2Bthe%2B%22Bharat%2BRatna%2Band%2BPadma%2Bawards%2Bare%2Bnot%2Btitles%2Bunder%2BArticle%2B18%2Bof%2Bthe%2BConstitution%2Bof%2BIndia

[Padma Vibhushan - Wikipedia]
Padma Shri - Wikipedia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Padma_Shri


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Padma Vibhushan - Wikipedia] ---
The Padma Vibhushan (IAST: Padma Vibhūṣaṇa pronounced [pəd̪mə ʋɪbʱuːɕəɳə], lit. "Lotus Grandeur") is the second-highest civilian award of the Republic of India, after the Bharat Ratna. Instituted on 2 January 1954, the award is given for "exceptional and distinguished service." All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these awards. However, government servants including those working with public sector undertakings, except doctors and scientists, are not eligible for these Awards. As of 2024, the award has been bestowed on 336 individuals, including 31 posthumous and 21 non-citizen recipients.
During 1 May and 15 September of every year, the recommendations for the award are submitted to the Padma Awards Committee, constituted by the Prime Minister of India. The recommendations are received from all the state and union territory governments, the Ministries of the Government of India, the Bharat Ratna and previous Padma Vibhushan award recipients, the Institutes of Excellence, the Ministers, the Chief Ministers and the Governors of State, and the Members of Parliament including private individuals. The committee later submits their recommendations to the Prime Minister and the President of India for further approval. The award recipients are announced on Republic Day.
The first recipients of the award were Satyendra Nath Bose, Nand Lal Bose, Zakir Husain, Balasaheb Gangadhar Kher, Jigme Dorji Wangchuck, and V. K. Krishna Menon, who were honoured in 1954. The 1954 statutes did not allow posthumous awards, but this was subsequently modified in the January 1955 statute. The "Padma Vibhushan", along with other personal civil honours, was briefly suspended twice, from July 1977 to January 1980 and from August 1992 to December 1995. Some of the recipients have refused or returned their conferments. P. N. Haksar, Vilayat Khan, E. M. S. Namboodiripad, Swami Ranganathananda, and Manikonda Chalapathi Rau, Mata Amritanandamayi refused the award, the family members of Lakshmi Chand Jain (2011) and Sharad Anantrao Joshi (2016) declined their posthumous conferments, and Baba Amte returned his 1986 conferment in 1991.
In 2026, the award was bestowed upon five recipients – Dharmendra (posthumous), K. T. Thomas, N. Rajam, P. Narayanan, & V. S. Achuthanandan (posthumous)


--- [Padma Vibhushan] ---
The Padma Vibhushan is the second-highest civilian award of the Republic of India, second only to the Bharat Ratna. Instituted on 2 January 1954, the award is given for "exceptional and distinguished service", without distinction of race, occupation, position, or sex. The award criteria include "service in any field including service rendered by Government servants" including doctors and scientists, but excluding those working with the public sector undertakings. Up to January 2020, the award has been bestowed on 314 individuals, including 16 posthumous and 21 non-citizen recipients. During 1 May and 15 September of every year, the recommendations for the award are submitted to the Padma Awards Committee, constituted by the Prime Minister of India. The recommendations are received from all the state and the union territory governments, the Ministries of the Government of India, the Bharat Ratna and previous Padma Vibhushan award recipients, the Institutes of Excellence, the Ministers, the Chief Ministers and the Governors of State, and the Members of Parliament including private individuals. The committee later submits their recommendations to the Prime Minister and the President of India for the further approval. The award recipients are announced on Republic Day. The first recipients of the award were Satyendra Nath Bose, Nand Lal Bose, Zakir Hussain, Balasaheb Gangadhar Kher, Jigme Dorji Wangchuck, and V. K. Krishna Menon, who were honoured in 1954. The 1954 statutes did not allow posthumous awards but this was subsequently modified in the January 1955 statute. The "Padma Vibhushan", along with other personal civil honours, was briefly suspended twice, from July 1977 to January 1980 and from August 1992 to December 1995. Some of the recipients have refused or returned their conferments. P. N. Haksar, Vilayat Khan, E. M. S. Namboodiripad, Swami Ranganathananda, and Manikonda Chalapathi Rau refused the award, the family members of Lakshmi Chand Jain (2011) and Sharad Anantrao Joshi (2016) declined their posthumous conferments, and Baba Amte returned his 1986 conferment in 1991. Most recently on 25 January 2020, the award has been bestowed upon seven recipients - George Fernandes, Arun Jaitley, Anerood Jugnauth, Mary Kom, Chhannulal Mishra, Sushma Swaraj and Vishwesha Teertha. History[] On 2 January 1954, a press release was published from the office of the secretary to the President of India announcing the creation of two civilian awards—Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, and the three-tier Padma Vibhushan, classified into "Pahla Varg" (Class I), "Dusra Varg" (Class II), and "Tisra Varg" (Class III), which rank below the Bharat Ratna. On 15 January 1955, the Padma Vibhushan was reclassified into three different awards: the Padma Vibhushan, the highest of the three, followed by the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Shri. The award, along with other personal civilian honours, was briefly suspended twice in its history; for the first time in July 1977 when Morarji Desai was sworn in as the fourth Prime Minister of India, for being "worthless and politicized". The suspension was rescinded on 25 January 1980 after Indira Gandhi became the Prime Minister. The civilian awards were suspended again in mid-1992, when two Public-Interest Litigations were filed in the High Courts of India, one in the Kerala High Court on 13 February 1992 by Balaji Raghavan and another in the Madhya Pradesh High Court (Indore Bench) on 24 August 1992 by Satya Pal Anand. Both petitioners questioned the civilian awards being "titles" per an interpretation of Article 18 (1) of the Constitution of India. On 25 August 1992, the Madhya Pradesh High Court issued a notice temporarily suspending all civilian awards. A Special Division Bench of the Supreme Court of India was formed comprising five judges: A. M. Ahmadi C. J., Kuldip Singh, B. P. Jeevan Reddy, N. P. Singh, and S. Saghir Ahmad. On 15 December 1995, the Special Division Bench restored the awards and delivered a judgment that the "Bharat Ratna and Padma awards are not titles under Article 18 of the Constitution of India". Regulations[] The award is conferred for "exceptional and distinguished service", without distinction of race, occupation, position, or sex. The criteria include "service in any field including service rendered by Government servants", but excludes those working with the public sector undertakings, with the exception of doctors and scientists. The 1954 statutes did not allow posthumous awards, but this was subsequently modified in the January 1955 statute; Aditya Nath Jha, Ghulam Mohammed Sadiq, and Vikram Sarabhai became the first recipients to be honoured posthumously in 1972. The recommendations are received from all state and union territory governments, the Ministries of the Government of India, the Bharat Ratna and previous Padma Vibhushan award recipients, the Institutes of Excellence, the Ministers, the Chief Ministers, the Governors of State, and the Members of Parliament, including private individuals. The recommendations received during 1 May and 15 September of every year are submitted to the Padma Awards Committee, convened by the Prime Minister of India. The Awards Committee later submits its recommendations to the Prime Minister and the President of India for further approval. The Padma Vibhushan award recipients are announced every year on Republic Day of India and registered in The Gazette of India—a publication released weekly by the Department of Publication, Ministry of Urban Development used for official government notices. The conferral of the award is not considered official without its publication in the Gazette. Recipients whose awards have been revoked or restored, both of which actions require the authority of the President, are also registered in the Gazette and are required to surrender their medals when their names are struck from the register. Specifications[] The original 1954 specifications of the award called for a circle made of gold gilt 1 3⁄8 inches (35 mm) in diameter, with rims on both sides. A centrally located lotus flower was embossed on the obverse side of the medal and the text "Padma Vibhushan" written in Devanagari script was inscribed above the lotus along the upper edge of the medal. A floral wreath was embossed along the lower edge and a lotus wreath at the top along the upper edge. The Emblem of India was placed in the centre of the reverse side with the text "Desh Seva" in Devanagari Script on the lower edge. The medal was suspended by a pink riband 1 1⁄4 inches (32 mm) in width divided into two equal segments by a white vertical line. A year later, the design was modified. The current decoration is a circular-shaped bronze toned medallion 1 3⁄4 inches (44 mm) in diameter and 1⁄8 inch (3.2 mm) thick. The centrally placed pattern made of outer lines of a square of 1 3⁄16 inches (30 mm) side is embossed with a knob carved within each of the outer angles of the pattern. A raised circular space of 1 1⁄16 inches (27 mm) in diameter is placed at the centre of the decoration. A centrally located lotus flower is embossed on the obverse side of the medal and the text "Padma" written in Devanagari script is placed above and the text "Vibhushan" is placed below the lotus. The Emblem of India is placed in the centre of the reverse side with the national motto of India, "Satyameva Jayate" (Truth alone triumphs), in Devanagari Script, inscribed on the lower edge. The rim, the edges. and all embossing on either side is of white gold with the text "Padma Vibhushan" of silver gilt. The medal is suspended by a pink riband 1 1⁄4 inches (32 mm) in width. The medal is ranked fourth in the order of precedence of wearing of medals and decorations. The medals are produced at Alipore Mint, Kolkata along with the other civilian and military awards like Bharat Ratna, Padma Bhushan, Padma Shri, and Param Veer Chakra. The first recipients of the Padma Vibhushan were Satyendra Nath Bose, Nandalal Bose, Zakir Hussain, Balasaheb Gangadhar Kher, V. K. Krishna Menon, and Jigme Dorji Wangchuck, who were honoured in 1954. As of 2017, the award has been bestowed on 300 individuals, including 12 posthumous and 19 non-citizen recipients. Some of the conferments have been refused or returned by the recipients; P. N. Haksar, Vilayat Khan, E. M. S. Namboodiripad, Swami Ranganathananda, and Manikonda Chalapathi Rau refused the award; the family members of Lakshmi Chand Jain (2011) and Sharad Anantrao Joshi (2016) declined their posthumous conferments, and Baba Amte returned his 1986 conferment in 1991. On 25 January 2020, the award has been bestowed upon seven recipients: George Fernandes, Arun Jaitley, Anerood Jugnauth, Mary Kom, Chhannulal Mishra, Sushma Swaraj and Vishwesha Teertha. Receivers[] A full list of receivers of this award can be found here.


--- [Padma Bhushan] ---
The Padma Bhushan (IAST: Padma Bhūṣaṇa, lit. 'Lotus Decoration') is the third-highest civilian award in the Republic of India, preceded by the Bharat Ratna and the Padma Vibhushan and followed by the Padma Shri. Instituted on 2 January 1954, the award is given for "distinguished service of a high order ... without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex". The award criteria include "service in any field, including service rendered by Government servants," including doctors and scientists, but exclude those working with the public sector undertakings. As of 2026, the award has been bestowed on 1354 individuals, including 41 posthumous and 103 non-citizen recipients.
The Padma Awards Committee is constituted every year by the Prime Minister of India and the recommendations for the award are submitted between 1 May and 15 September. The recommendations are received from all the state and the union territory governments, as well as from Ministries of the Government of India, Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan awardees, the Institutes of Excellence, Ministers, Chief Ministers and Governors of States, Members of Parliament, and private individuals. The committee later submits its recommendations to the Prime Minister and the President of India for further approval. The award recipients are announced on 26 January, the Republic Day of India.
When instituted in 1954, twenty-three recipients were honoured with the Padma Bhushan. The Padma Bhushan, along with other personal civil honours, was briefly suspended twice, from July 1977 to January 1980 and from August 1992 to December 1995. Some of the recipients have refused or returned their conferments.


--- [Who+are+the+five+judges+of+the+Supreme+Court+who+restored+the ...] ---
CiteTEXT ...the opinion proposed by A.M Ahmadi, C.J I agree with the Chief Justice that Bharat Ratna and Padma awards are not ‘titles’ within Article ...:“Whether the Awards, Bharat Ratna, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri (hereinafter called ‘The National Awards’) ...awards are not titles and their use along with the names of individuals is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution which has abolished ... ...High Court, is to be treated as eligible as a Member of NTT. Inviting our attention to Article 217 of the Constitution it was submitted, that a person who is ...of the Constitution, all tribunals and courts are amenable to the jurisdiction of this Court. The corollary sought to be drawn was, that if under claus...that if the convention of seniority is not read in Article 124(2), every Judge of the Supreme Court would be a possible candidate for the office ... ...:- "Whether the Awards, Bharat Ratna, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri (hereinafter called "The National ...are not "titles" within Article 18 of the Constitution of India. These awards can be given to the citizens for exceptional and distin...is these appellations that appear as prefixes or suffixes which are sought to be interdicted by Article 18(1). Since the National Awards are not titles of nobil... ...scope and content of Article 300-A of the Constitution of India, are the issues that have come up for consideration in these civil appeals....the Forty-fourth Amendment, 1978, which deleted Article 19(1)(f) and Article 31 from the Constitution of India and introduced Article 300-A, ...guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, this Court held as follows:“12. Proprietary personality was integral to personal ... ...original jurisdiction to entertain petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution. It could not have been the intention that this Court would go into stale demands after...Article 32 is itself a guaranteed right. So it is, but it does not follow from this that it was the intention of the Constitution-makers that this Court should ...-section (2) are applicable, the appropriate Government may direct that the provisions of Section 5-A shall not apply, and, if it does so direct, a declaration may be ma... ...had categorically stated that the Government of India does not control the Board and that it is not a State under Article 12 of ...related to the interpretation of the Constitution of India which will have to be heard by a Bench of not less than five Judges as contemplated ...contends that although a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court would be maintainable but not one under ... ...landowners or deposited in court. The State contended that as the landowners did not appear on the notified date to accept compensation and did not file an application for ...High Court held that the Collector's mistaken payment to the tenant, and the failure of the Collector to deposit in court, does not bar a reference .... Section 18 of the 1894 Act provides that any person interested, who has not accepted the award, may ask for a reference to be made to the court with respect t... ...India AIR 1961 SC 935, a Constitution Bench of this Court observed that if there are two negative conditions, the expression “or” has to be read as conjunctive and c...Court in para 4 of the judgment observed as under:‘4. … It is true that proceedings are dragged on for a long time on one count or the other ...jurisdiction to entertain petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution. It could not have been the intention that this Court would go into stale demands after ... ...is not, whether it is amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India? (see paras 22 to 35)...it amenable to the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. We may all the same refer to a...Zee Telefilms Ltd. v. Union of India (2005) 4 SCC 649. By a majority of 3:2 this ... ...titles, by the recipients.6. Further, in para 30 of the said judgment, the Hon'ble Apex Court has also held that National Awards i.e Padma Award ...Article 51-A of the Constitution of India, it has been stated by Hon'ble Apex Court ...constitutional Bench judgment of Hon'ble the Apex-Court, which was delivered on 15.12.1995, general regulations/procedures and practices governing ‘Bharat Ratna’ and ‘... ...Bench of Five Judges .The Court held that conferring national awards of Bharat Ratna or other Padma awards does not amount to conferr...Padma Awards Committee for Padma Awards can be disclosed. It has to be borne in mind that the nominees for Padma Awards are generally not aware of such.../ Departments of the Govt. of India, Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan awardees and selected Institutes of Excellence. Recommendations received from them ... ...judgments, the Supreme Court must be interpreted to have laid down that the principle of ‘strict scrutiny’ would not apply to affirmative action under Article 15(5) but ...(not parties before the High Court) The petitioners are citizens of India who believe they have the moral responsibility and duty in protecting cultura....18.10 Assailing the finding of the High Court that Section 377 IPC violates Article 14, Shri Sharan submitted that the section does not c... ...excluded by Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act. Consequently, this Court held that an operation of stay would not ameliorate a failure to take possession and that such acquis... period". Hence, the appellants are required to explain that they were diligent during the prescribed period of limitation and could not file the appeal because ...bear in mind that we are not hearing an application for condonation of delay but sitting in appeal over a discretionary order of the High ... ...benefit in a reference wherein the order of termination is under challenge. Therefore, it was his submission that the directions issued by the labour court are contrary ...pursuant to that judgment though the date of enforcement of the amendment has not been notified. 2. The judgment delivered by seven learned ...refuse to make a reference on the ground of delay and laches if there is no explanation to the delay." We are of the opinion that the Punjab and Haryan... ...appropriate for this Court to exercise its authority under Article 136 of the Constitution of India and decide the matter finally. He submitted that as...repelled the argument that the Article is prospective and not retrospective and, hence, it only covers the cases which are filed in the Supreme ...adjudication of water disputes stood transferred under the law enacted under Article 262(1), that is, the 1956 Act and the finding recorded by the Tribunal is ... ...") are only applicable to a Commercial Dispute of a Specified Value and not commercial disputes not of a Specified Value. Section 2 (i) of the Commerci...exercising the jurisdiction and powers conferred on it under this Act. (2) The Chief Justice of the High Court shall nominate such Judges ...by an Act to lie in a court not inferior to a District Court, and filed or pending on the original side of a High Court, shall be heard and disposed ... ...and disposed of by the Commercial Division of that High Court. The suits and applications covered under the first proviso are those which cannot be fil...made amongst them unless such differences are real and substantial. Testing the provisions in this context we are of the view that a person in the army who has ... this Court did not decide a limited contention of the Petitioner viz. that the amendments introduced to the Code ... ..., and also that this position was accepted by the Collector in one of his orders. These are matters which do not arise for decision of this Court in a petition ...authorities and is not one that can be questioned in a Court of law or, at any rate, by a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution. (Para 32) ...application under Art. 133 of the Constitution of India praying for a certificate that the amount or value of the subject matter of dispute in... ...having very limited power under Article 227 of the Constitution of India and this ...Supreme Court emphasizes the dominant nature/ test and point out that, where entity carries on a complex of activities, some of which qualify for exemption from the ambi...Rao (supra) wherein three Judges Bench judgment specifically stated that the aforesaid judgment continues to be enforced and is a binding precedent. In this case Supreme... ...legislation, the discretion and powers of the High Court under Article 226 with Courts drawing their sanctity from the Constitution of India, is ...Constitution and is not a subject for Court or Courts-of-Record under the Constitution of India. 193. There is no issue ...Article 226 of the Constitution of India and be dealt with in accordance with law." ...


--- [Padma Vibhushan - Wikipedia] ---
The Padma Shri (IAST: padma śrī, lit. 'Lotus Honour'), also spelled Padma Shree, is the fourth-highest civilian award of the Republic of India, after the Bharat Ratna, the Padma Vibhushan and the Padma Bhushan. Instituted on 2 January 1954, the award is conferred in recognition of "distinguished contribution in various spheres of activity including the arts, education, industry, literature, science, acting, medicine, social service and public affairs". It is awarded by the Government of India every year on India's Republic Day.
