=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Randolph papers, 1943-2010 - NYPL Archives]
In 1948, Randolph married Mildred Greenberg (1913-2008), a member of the Randolph Singers and the executive coordinator for The St. Cecilia Chorus. Randolph is best known as the conductor and musical director for the Masterwork Chorus and Orchestra, an amateur chorus based in New Jersey, and as the director of The St. Cecilia Chorus.
URL: https://archives.nypl.org/mus/18559

[David Randolph, Conductor of Many Fleet 'Messiahs,' Dies at 95]
May 15, 2010 · In 1948 he married the alto of the group, Mildred Greenberg; the marriage lasted until her death in 2008. A brother, Stanley Rosenberg, is Mr. Randolph’s only immediate survivor.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/15/arts/music/15randolph.html

[Randolph, David - Social Networks and Archival Context]
In 1948, Randolph married Mildred Greenberg (1913-2008), a member of the Randolph Singers and the executive coordinator for The St. Cecilia Chorus. Randolph is best known as the conductor and musical director for the Masterwork Chorus and Orchestra, an amateur chorus based in New Jersey, and as the director of The St. Cecilia Chorus.
URL: https://snaccooperative.org/view/20903165

[David Randolph - Freedom From Religion Foundation]
Dec 21, 2010 · During World War II, Randolph worked for the U.S. Office of War Information. In 1947, CBS hired him to script classical radio broadcasts. He founded a madrigal group, the Randolph Singers, which performed widely and in 1948 he married Mildred Greenberg, an alto in the choir.
URL: https://ffrf.org/publications/day/david-randolph/

[David Randolph (December 21, 1914 — March 12, 2010), American conductor ...]
Honored guest Handel Festival, Halle, Germany, 1991. Achievements David Randolph has been listed as a noteworthy conductor by Marquis Who's Who. Connections Married Mildred Greenberg, July 18, 1948 (deceased 2008). Father: Morris Randolph Mother: Elsie (Goodman) Randolph Spouse: Mildred Greenberg
URL: https://prabook.com/web/david.randolph/465938


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Randolph papers, 1943-2010 - NYPL Archives] ---
Scope and arrangement The David Randolph papers consists of letters, diaries, writings, concert programs, photographs, and annotated scores documenting Randolph’s career as a choral conductor, radio host, and music educator. The collection contains information on Randolph’s personal and professional life; his intellectual output, including drafts of articles, reviews, and his music appreciation book This is Music; and his conducting methods and performance decisions. Inquiries regarding audio materials in the collection may be directed to the Rodgers and Hammerstein Archives of Recorded Sound (rha@nypl.org). Audio materials will be subject to preservation evaluation and migration prior to access. The David Randolph papers are arranged in nine series: - 1931-2010 The Biographical Documents series is comprised of Randolph’s curriculum vitae, various biographical write-ups, genealogical notes, personal interest newspaper stories concerning Randolph, and official certificates of achievement and diplomas. Arranged alphabetically. - 1946-2010 The Correspondence series contains private and business letters, the bulk of which are from family members (primarily Stanley, Isaac, and Vivian Rosenberg), colleagues, and acquaintances. Many letters are “testimonials” from audience and chorus members that discuss Randolph’s musical performances, radio program, and his impact on their appreciation of musical. Also present are communications concerning performances, lectures, and publishing, including letters from Carnegie Hall, Avery Fisher Hall, The St. Cecilia Chorus, the Masterwork Chorus, the Griffith Music Foundation, MidAmerican Productions, Mohonk Mountain House, and various institutions of higher education. Most of the letters written by Randolph are photocopies of originals written in the 1990s and 2000s, including emails to The St. Cecilia Chorus sent at the end of his life. Notable contributors include: Leonard Bernstein, Aaron Copland, Vernon Duke, Clifton Fadiman, Howard Hanson, Doris Humphrey, Harrison Kerr, Ernest Lubin, Tad Mosel, Walter Wehle Naumburg, Sam Norkin, Tony Randall, Lynn Redgrave, Klaus George Roy, William Schuman, Robert Haven Schauffler, Deems Taylor, Alec Templeton, Ralph Vaughan Williams, and Edgard Varese, among others. The bulk of these letters date from the 1950s and 1960s and are notes regarding concerts, radio shows, opinions on music and specific performances, and social pleasantries. Also of interest are letters between Randolph and Neurologist Oliver Sacks, who used Randolph as an example of a musician who had stayed active and agile into his 90s (2007-2008). Arranged into folders by decade with some contributor folders at the end arranged alphabetically. - 1943-2010 The Diaries series is comprised of 67 volumes (1943-2010) that contain daily entries noting Randolph’s professional and personal activities. Entries are brief. They include notes on appointments, deadlines, accomplishments, birthdays, anniversaries, and activities for the day. Occasionally they feature dramatic events in world news. The 1980 volume is missing and in its place is Randolph’s appointment calendar for that year. Arranged chronologically. - 1950-2009 The Writings series (1950-2009) consists of drafts, notes, and published clippings of magazine articles; reviews; lectures and speeches; performance notes; musical compositions and exercises; record liner notes; scripts for radio programs, LPs, and Films; and miscellaneous writings by Randolph from throughout his career. This series is arranged into 8 subseries with each organized alphabetically by folder title with general writings at the beginning. - 1954-1962 The Ledger series is made up of two volumes that document Randolph’s personal finances from 1954-1962. Randolph recorded deposits, withdrawals, and loans, and noted the purpose for each transaction. - 1945-2007 The Concert Programs series consists of material related to Randolph’s public performances as a singer, conductor, and lecturer. Programs list the date and location of performances, performers, and notes on the featured works. Some of the programs contain program notes written by Randolph. - 1947-2005 The Reviews and Publicity series contains newspaper and magazine reviews of Randolph performances, radio shows, lectures, and his book This Is Music. These clippings span Randolph’s entire career. - 1957-1999 The Photographs series is comprised of 35 images spanning 1957-1999. The bulk of these are portraits of Randolph, including publicity shots and photographs of him during concerts and rehearsals. Of note are two color photographs of the Randolph Singers dressed in 18th century costume for a performance at the Governor’s Palace in Williamsburg, Virginia (October 16, 1958); 16 black and white photographs of a St. Cecilia Chorus dress rehearsal at Carnegie Hall (December 16, 1973); and 5 color photographs of Randolph conducting The St. Cecilia Chorus performance of the Berlioz Requiem at Carnegie Hall (May 10, 1991). - undated The Scores series consists of 248 scores that Randolph used for performances throughout his career. These scores are extensively annotated and contain markings and notes regarding interpretation, errata, performers, and performance dates and venues. Many scores hold inserted printed concert programs from Randolph’s performances of the work. Score types include published and photocopied versions of full orchestral scores and piano vocal scores. The bulk of the pieces are for chorus and orchestra and span the standard chorus repertoire (Bach, Beethoven, Berlioz, Handel, Hayden, Mozart, and Vivaldi) along with American and European 20th Century compositions (Bernstein, Britten, Giannini, Stravinsky, and Vaughan Williams). The performance markings provide insights into Randolph’s musical decision making process. Of note are three heavily used copies of Handel’s Messiah.


--- [David Randolph, Conductor of Many Fleet 'Messiahs,' Dies at 95] ---
Supported by David Randolph, Conductor of Many Fleet ‘Messiahs,’ Dies at 95 David Randolph, a choral conductor whose performances of Handel’s “Messiah” with the Masterwork Chorus were for decades a mainstay of New York’s holiday season, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 95. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Sheridan Chapin, a friend of many years. For more than half a century Mr. Randolph was a vigorous presence in the musical life of the New York area. He was the original music director of the Masterwork Chorus, a high-level amateur group he led through 37 seasons and 166 “Messiahs” before stepping down in 1992. He was also the longtime director of the St. Cecilia Chorus in Manhattan, which he had led since 1965. Mr. Randolph retired from the post on the Sunday before his death, Ms. Chapin said. A familiar voice on the radio, Mr. Randolph was the host of a weekly classical music program on WNYC in New York, originally titled “Music for the Connoisseur” and later called “The David Randolph Concerts.” Begun in 1946, the show ran for more than 30 years here and was also heard on stations throughout the country. But it was as the leader of the Masterwork Chorus, which has sung the “Messiah” in Carnegie Hall each December since 1961, that Mr. Randolph was probably best known. Founded in 1955 and based in Morristown, N.J., the chorus has about 100 singers, accompanied by a professional orchestra. Besides singing the “Messiah” — it typically gives several performances in the metropolitan area at Christmastime — the Masterwork presents concerts, mostly in New Jersey, at other times of year. Under Mr. Randolph, its repertory included Mozart, Orff and Kodaly. Mr. Randolph’s hands were light and fast, and his “Messiah” was known for crispness and fleetness — under his direction, the complete oratorio, with intermission, took less than three hours. Reviewing the Masterwork’s first Carnegie Hall “Messiah” in The New York Times in 1961, Ross Parmenter wrote: “This ‘Messiah,’ as conceived and expertly led by David Randolph, was wonderfully refreshing. The chorus sang not only with skill and musicality but also with an innocence of heart.” If the increasing emphasis on authentic early-music performance practice seemed to dampen the group’s critical reception in later years, it hardly mattered. By then the Masterwork’s rendition had become a fixture among the spate of dueling “Messiahs” of the New York Christmas season, with loyal audience members, and many choristers, returning year after year. David Rosenberg was born in Manhattan on Dec. 21, 1914; he changed his surname as a young man. After earning a bachelor’s degree from the City College of New York, he earned a master’s in music education from Teachers College of Columbia University. During World War II, Mr. Randolph worked for the United States Office of War Information. In 1947 he joined the Columbia Broadcasting System, writing scripts for many of its classical radio broadcasts. In the early 1940s, Mr. Randolph founded a madrigal group, the Randolph Singers, which performed in New York in Town Hall, Carnegie Recital Hall and elsewhere. In 1948 he married the alto of the group, Mildred Greenberg; the marriage lasted until her death in 2008. A brother, Stanley Rosenberg, is Mr. Randolph’s only immediate survivor. Mr. Randolph taught music for many years at Montclair State University, the New School and elsewhere. He was the author of a book, “This Is Music: A Guide to the Pleasures of Listening” (McGraw-Hill, 1964). After leaving the Masterwork Chorus, Mr. Randolph was succeeded by David Briskin; in 2000 Mr. Briskin was succeeded by Andrew Megill, the current music director. In retirement, however, Mr. Randolph managed to sneak in a few more “Messiahs” with other choruses. This brought his lifetime total for the piece, give or take, to 170. This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Randolph, David - Social Networks and Archival Context] ---
Social Networks and Archival Context Verifying that you are not a bot... please wait. (JavaScript and cookies are required).


--- [David Randolph - Freedom From Religion Foundation] ---
On this date in 1914, composer David Randolph (né Rosenberg) was born in New York City. He held a bachelor’s degree from the City College of New York and earned a master’s in music education from Teachers College of Columbia University. During World War II, Randolph worked for the U.S. Office of War Information. In 1947, CBS hired him to script classical radio broadcasts. He founded a madrigal group, the Randolph Singers, which performed widely and in 1948 he married Mildred Greenberg, an alto in the choir. His sonorous baritone was known to listeners of the weekly classical music program “Music for the Connoisseur” on WNYC. The program, later called “The David Randolph Concerts,” ran for more than 30 years starting in 1946. He wrote the well-received This is Music: A Guide to the Pleasure of Listening (1964). The New York Times published a lengthy obituary in 2010 noting that Randolph’s performances of Handel’s “Messiah” (at least 170 full performances with two different choruses) were a mainstay of New York’s holiday season. Randolph remarked at a 2009 luncheon in his honor in New York City, hosted by FFRF Co-Presidents Dan Barker and Annie Laurie Gaylor: “A couple of months ago I had the pleasure of appearing on the Freethought Radio program with Dan and Annie Laurie, and Annie Laurie said to me, ‘How can you as an atheist conduct Handel’s Messiah?’ My answer was this: Suppose Dan were engaged as an actor to play the role of Iago in Shakespeare’s ‘Othello,’ admittedly one of the most vicious and horrible people in the world. Would he be able to do it? Yes. Does he have to be vicious and horrible? No, not at all.” “There was no such thing as ‘religious’ music, Randolph felt. … There was only music put to different uses, in different contexts,” wrote Oliver Sacks. (The Paris Review Daily, Dec. 21, 2010) “He would mention [this] when conducting his favorite Requiem Masses by Brahms, Verdi or Berlioz — all of whom, he would remind the audience, were atheists (as he himself was). Randolph was the original music director of the Masterwork Chorus, a high-level amateur group he led through 37 seasons before stepping down in 1992. He began directing the St. Cecilia Chorus in Manhattan in 1965 (entirely secular despite the inherited name), featuring works by freethought composers. Randolph retired from the post the Sunday before his death at age 95 from complications of pneumonia and cancer. (D. 2010)


--- [David Randolph (December 21, 1914 — March 12, 2010), American conductor ...] ---
Background Randolph, David was born on December 21, 1914 in New York City. Son of Morris and Elsie (Goodman) Randolph. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Randolph, David was born on December 21, 1914 in New York City. Son of Morris and Elsie (Goodman) Randolph. Bachelor of Science, City College of New York, 1936. Master of Arts, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1942. Doctor of Humane Letters (honorary), Saint Peter's College, Jersey City, 2006. Doctor of Fine Arts (honorary), City University of New York, 2006. Music specialist Office of War Information, New York City, 1943-1947. Adjunct professor music New York University, 1948-1985, Mostly Mozart course, 1976-1985. Lecturer Town Hall, New York City, 1955-1960, Columbia University, 1957, Cosmopolitan Club, New York City, 1962-1963. Pre-concert lecturer New York Philharmonic, Avery Fisher Hall, 1964-1986,Cleveland Orchestra, 1981, Vienna Symphony Orchestra, 1988. Teacher conducting Dalcroze School, 1948-1949. Music commentator Little Orchestra Society Concerts and Broadcasts, 1950-1962, Metropolitan Opera Intermission Broadcasts, 1951, 52. Intermission commentator Lewisohn Stadium Concert Broadcasts, 1952-1958. Visiting professor music State University of New York, New Paltz, 1970-1972, Fordham University, 1972-1973. Lecturer New School for Social Research, 1973-1990, International Business Machines Corporation, New York City, 1978-1986, Beethoven Society, 1977, 83. Professor music Montclair State College, Upper Montclair, New Jersey, 1973-1987. Guest conductor Rockland County (New York ) Annual Choral Festival, 1972, 73. Adviser film Music to Live By, member New Jersey Arts Council, 1967-1970. Member music committee Governor New Jersey's Commission to Study Arts, 1965. Honored guest Handel Festival, Halle, Germany, 1991. Married Mildred Greenberg, July 18, 1948 (deceased 2008).
