=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Claribel and Etta Cone - The Metropolitan Museum of Art]
Sisters Claribel and Etta Cone were two of the most prominent collectors of modern art in America during the first half of the twentieth century. Their interactions with many protagonists of French modernism, especially Henri Matisse, and firsthand knowledge of artists’ work allowed the Cone sisters to build an outstanding collection, which they bequeathed to the Baltimore Museum of Art in ...
URL: https://www.metmuseum.org/research-centers/leonard-a-lauder-research-center/research-resources/modern-art-index-project/cone

[Cone sisters - Wikipedia]
Claribel Cone (1864–1929) and Etta Cone (1870–1949), collectively known as the Cone sisters, were active as American art collectors and socialites during the first part of the 20th century. Claribel trained as a physician and Etta as a pianist. Their social circle included Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso and Gertrude Stein. They gathered one of the best known private collections of modern art ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cone_sisters

[Henri Matisse in Claribel Cone's apartment at the Marlborough ...]
Since meeting the artist in 1906, Etta maintained a friendship with him and his family and purchased a significant number of his works. Matisse's 1930 visit occurred just a year after the death of Etta's sister Claribel and while he was there she reportedly commissioned him to create a portrait of Claribel.
URL: https://artbma.contentdm.oclc.org/digital/collection/p15264dc/id/38/

[Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters: The Cone Sisters of Baltimore ...]
In 1930, one year after Claribel died, Matisse traveled to Baltimore to visit Etta in the Cone apartments. Matisse made six charcoal sketches of Claribel (whom he described as a “great noble and glorious beauty”) and one of Etta (described by Matisse as “a Queen of Israel”).
URL: https://archives.nasher.duke.edu/matisse//artists.html

[A TALE OF TWO COLLECTORS - Baltimore Sun]
Apr 22, 2001 · Henri Matisse created both portraits. In 1930, the year after Claribel died at age 64, Etta commissioned him to draw her sister’s picture.
URL: https://www.baltimoresun.com/2001/04/22/a-tale-of-two-collectors/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Claribel and Etta Cone - The Metropolitan Museum of Art] ---
Claribel and Etta Cone Jonesboro, Tenn., 1864–Lausanne, Switzerland, 1929, and Jonesboro, Tenn., 1870–Blowing Rock, N.C., 1949 Sisters Claribel and Etta Cone were two of the most prominent collectors of modern art in America during the first half of the twentieth century. Their interactions with many protagonists of French modernism, especially Henri Matisse, and firsthand knowledge of artists’ work allowed the Cone sisters to build an outstanding collection, which they bequeathed to the Baltimore Museum of Art in 1949. Two of eleven siblings, Claribel and Etta lived in Tennessee and then in Baltimore, where their father owned several grocery stores. After their eldest brothers took over the family business, it grew, allowing them to purchase a number of Southern cotton mills and establish a financial empire. The Cone sisters benefited from the prosperous family business in building the majority of their art collection after World War II. Claribel studied medicine at Johns Hopkins University, becoming a respected professional in the field of pathology. She met Gertrude Stein, a fellow student there, and in the 1890s their friendship led the Cone and Stein families to become close. Around the same time, Etta assumed the role of caretaker for the family home and her aging parents. It was in this capacity that she made her first purchases of art in New York—five works by the American impressionist painter Theodore Robinson, from an estate sale at the American Art Galleries—to adorn the parlor of the family residence at Eutaw Place in Baltimore. Beginning in 1901, Claribel and Etta travelled to Europe frequently. In 1905 Etta visited the Salon d’Automne, meeting Pablo Picasso through Stein in November and Matisse through Gertrude’s sister-in-law Sarah Stein in January 1906. This period proved formative for the Cone collection. After visiting the studios of Picasso and Matisse, the sisters began collecting works by both artists and, when they returned to Baltimore in 1906, brought with them a discrete cache of art, including Matisse’s 1905 watercolor The Harbor of Collioure, his Yellow Pottery from Provence, an unfinished oil painting from 1906, and three drawings. Although they began acquiring art before World War I, the Cones only became serious about building their collection after the war as they drew on funds earned through the family business. Beginning in 1922, the Cones traveled to Europe more frequently, and started buying from art dealers as well as directly from artists. They purchased many of Matisse’s Odalisques and interiors from the 1920s and 1930s, such as The Music Lesson, Two Women Seated on a Divan (1921), bought from the dealer Paul Vallotton in 1926, and Standing Odalisque Reflected in a Mirror (1922), bought from Matisse the following year). In 1926 they secured the artist’s early masterpiece Blue Nude (1907) at the sale of John Quinn’s collection in Paris. The Cones also bought major works by earlier artists such as Paul Cézanne, Gustave Courbet, Francis Pissarro, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Alfred Sisley, and Vincent van Gogh, as well as contemporary artists Marie Laurencin and Félix Vallotton. The works were subsequently installed in the sisters’ private apartments, where they were displayed together with their eclectic collection of furniture and objects. In 1929, after Claribel’s death, Etta continued to build the collection. She visited Matisse annually to acquire key works that he reserved for her, and during his visit to the United States in 1930 she commissioned him to make a posthumous portrait of Claribel. In 1932, at Matisse’s suggestion, she bought all of the materials (original drawings, printed and refused copper plates, proof volumes, and the signed first copy) from the artist’s illustrated edition of Stéphane Mallarmé’s Poésies produced by Albert Skira. In 1934 Etta became a client of the Galerie Rosengart in Lucerne, Switzerland, adding canvases by such nineteenth- and early twentieth-century artists as Edgar Degas, Paul Gauguin, Amedeo Modigliani, and van Gogh, bringing further historical depth to the collection. She also bought several works on paper and paintings by Matisse (e.g. The Dark Embroidered Blouse, 1936, and Purple Robe and Anemones, 1937) from the dealer Paul Rosenberg. Etta last visited Europe in 1938. In the United States she continued buying Matisse’s works from the artist’s son, the New York–based dealer Pierre Matisse. Eventually her collection included 155 prints, forty-two paintings, eighteen bronzes, thirty-six drawings, and seven illustrated books by the French artist. In May 1949 Etta decided, following Claribel’s will, to bequeath the full collection of more than three thousand paintings, drawings, sculptures, textiles, and objets d’art to the Baltimore Museum of Art. Since 1957, the Cone Collection has been displayed in a specially built wing of the museum dedicated to Etta and Claribel. Boas, George. The Cone Collection of Baltimore, Maryland: Catalogue of Paintings, Drawings, Sculpture of the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries. Baltimore, 1934. Cone, Claribel and Etta. Cone Collection: A Handbook with a Catalogue of Paintings and Sculpture. Baltimore, M.D.: The Baltimore Museum of Art, 1955. Richardson, Brenda, and William C. Ameringer. Dr Claribel and Miss Etta: The Cone Collection of the Baltimore Museum of Art. Baltimore, M.D.: Baltimore Museum of Art, 1985. The Claribel Cone and Etta Cone Papers are partially digitized on the Baltimore Museum of Art Library and Archives Digital Collections website. How to cite this entry: Casini, Giovanni, "Claribel and Etta Cone," The Modern Art Index Project (December 2019), Leonard A. Lauder Research Center for Modern Art, The Metropolitan Museum of Art. https://doi.org/10.57011/RKXP4510


--- [Cone sisters - Wikipedia] ---
Claribel Cone (1864–1929) and Etta Cone (1870–1949), collectively known as the Cone sisters, were active as American art collectors and socialites during the first part of the 20th century. Claribel trained as a physician and Etta as a pianist. Their social circle included Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso and Gertrude Stein. They gathered one of the best known private collections of modern art in the United States at their Baltimore apartments, and the collection now makes up a wing of the Baltimore Museum of Art. Their collection was estimated to be worth almost a billion US dollars in 2002.


--- [Henri Matisse in Claribel Cone's apartment at the Marlborough ...] ---
No content


--- [Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters: The Cone Sisters of Baltimore ...] ---
Henri Matisse in his apartment at the Place Charles-Felix in Nice, 1934. Henri Matisse Archive. All works by Henri Matisse seen in archival photograph © 2011. Succession H. Matisse / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. The Cone sisters were the beneficiaries of the Cone textile empire in North Carolina, and loved surrounding themselves with lush fabrics and textures. Their couches overflowed with pillows covered in multicolored fabrics; they collected fabrics and laces from around the world. Many of their beloved Matisse paintings also featured bright colors and bold patterns. Fabric Design Contest The Nasher Museum partnered with Spoonflower, a Durham-based company, to hold a contest with the goal of designing a textile that would look at home in a Matisse painting. The top 10 designs were announced November 29, 2012. Congrats! The top ten designs will be featured at a First Thursday and Art for All events at the Nasher Museum on Thursday, December 6, 2012. Claribel and Etta Cone were sisters and best friends who shared a love for travel and art. Together, they followed a passion for avant-garde art that belied their proper Victorian appearance. They befriended artists who were little known by peers and rejected by critics of the day, including Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso, and traveled to Paris to visit galleries and artist studios. Matisse would set out pictures in his Nice studio for the sisters to see, suggesting purchases to round out their collection. In 1930, one year after Claribel died, Matisse traveled to Baltimore to visit Etta in the Cone apartments. Matisse made six charcoal sketches of Claribel (whom he described as a “great noble and glorious beauty”) and one of Etta (described by Matisse as “a Queen of Israel”). In 1935, Matisse sent Etta letters containing 22 photographs of his progress on the painting Large Reclining Nude. The artist painted and repainted the work over the course of six months. Of course, after watching it evolve, Etta bought the completed painting. The Cones collected more than 500 works by Matisse. The sisters first began visiting Picasso at his studio in 1905 with Gertrude Stein. Etta picked out sketches. Sometime later, Gertrude Stein mailed the sisters a sketched self-portrait by Picasso with his message, “Bonjour Mlle Cone.” The Cones went on to collect 57 Picasso paintings, drawings and bronze sculptures. Sources: Ellen B. Hirschland and Nancy Hirschland Ramage, The Cone Sisters of Baltimore: Collecting at Full Tilt (2008, Northwestern University Press, $34.95), Karen Levitov, Collecting Matisse and Modern Masters: The Cone Sisters of Baltimore (2011, Yale University Press) and Jack Flam, Matisse in the Cone Collection: The Poetics of Vision (2001 Pennsylvania State University Press).


--- [A TALE OF TWO COLLECTORS - Baltimore Sun] ---
Dr. Claribel Cone gazes imperiously from a charcoal portrait in the Baltimore Museum of Art. In it, she possesses beauty that seems born of confidence, not perfection. Her wavy hair is pulled back, and from beneath dark slashes of brow, her eyes seem to gleam with intelligence. Nearby, her younger sister, Etta, is drawn in silhouette, her cheek soft and full, her head tilted as she looks quizzically to the side, as if waiting for someone else to finish speaking. Henri Matisse created both portraits. In 1930, the year after Claribel died at age 64, Etta commissioned him to draw her sister’s picture. But the artist surprised his long-time friend and patron by drawing not one, but four renditions of Claribel — and six of Etta. Later, Matisse described the creative process in a letter to a friend as being both “arduous” and “very interesting.” He explained: “It’s based on two opposing characters from the same family.” Who better to sketch such differences? The Cone sisters, whom Matisse called his “two Baltimore ladies,” patronized the French artist when few others did. Together and separately they traveled the world, motoring (with chauffeur) through Switzerland, riding elephants in India, attending opera in Italy, befriending avant-garde artists in France. Neither married. Both shopped compulsively. They were by turns generous, compiling extensive lists of gifts to be given, or tight-fisted, noting the price of everything from a cab fare to how much it cost to cobble a shoe. Blessed with wealth from family holdings in textile mills, they had the means to live as they wished and, for the most part, did. For the sisters, art was something to hang on the bedroom wall, to look at daily, to enjoy. Despite skepticism from family members and fellow Baltimoreans, they bought hundreds of works from avant-garde artists such as Matisse and Picasso. That they shared a passion for modern art is easily seen in their possessions. The collection, which was left by Etta in 1950 to the BMA, is renowned for its nearly 500 paintings, sculptures and works on paper by Matisse as well as its works by Picasso, Cezanne, van Gogh, Renoir, and other 20th-century masters. The museum today celebrates the opening of a newly renovated and expanded Cone Wing, in which more than 100 works owned by the sisters are on display. But the huge collection also includes hundreds of prints and drawings, antique furniture, 18th- and 19th-century jewelry, Oriental rugs, textiles that range from Coptic fragments to embroidery from the Middle East, wooden African sculptures, curios, leather, wood or inlaid boxes, cabinets, a collection of mortars and pestles, hundreds of postcards, a group of keys and 1,500 books. Still, the sisters were as different as they were alike, and, if you look carefully, those differences, too, are reflected in their renowned art collection. Friends were free thinkers Claribel and Etta were the fifth and ninth children in a German-Jewish family of 13 siblings. Their father, Herman Cone, who emigrated from Germany in 1846, was a successful merchant and left each of his offspring an annual income. That income grew significantly when the booming textile business, developed in Greensboro, N.C., by brothers Moses and Ceasar, blossomed during World War I. As chronicled in a biography titled “Dr. Claribel and Miss Etta,” by former BMA deputy director Brenda Richardson, their lives were rich and peopled by free thinkers such as Gertrude Stein. They lived in the Marlborough building on Eutaw Place, next door to their youngest brother, Frederic. Between them, the three Cones kept four apartments: one each for Etta and Frederic, and two for Claribel, who kept her collections in one and lived in the other — on a separate floor. They became acquainted with Stein and her brother Leo, who in 1892 moved from San Francisco to Baltimore. It was an important association: Both sisters formed deep friendships with Gertrude; Etta typed the manuscript for her first book, “Three Lives.” Gertrude, in turn, portrayed the sisters’ relationship in a long essay titled “Two Women.” And Leo, who wrote the book “The A-B-C of Aesthetics,” was enormously influential in developing both sisters’ artistic sensibilities. On Saturday evenings, Claribel held gatherings in her apartment, which The Sun described in 1911 “as near to forming a salon as anything this city has ever known.” Edward T. Cone was 11 years old when he first visited his aunts. Now 84, the composer and music professor at Princeton University remembers their Baltimore homes as treasure troves. Like fusty Victorian museums, the apartments were crammed with everything from a Moroccan bridal veil to works by Picasso. Oriental rugs lay this way and that across the floors. Pictures covered nearly every inch of wall. Bronze and marble sculptures sat atop tables and cabinets. Drawers were stuffed with laces and silks. “My first impression was of color everywhere,” Edward says. “Not just in the pictures but from beautiful things all over. But most of all what I remember is faces from the portraits all around. Everywhere you looked, you were being stared at.” Both sisters shopped incessantly. If Claribel needed one notebook, she bought 10. If Etta needed a petticoat made by the seamstress, she ordered a dozen. Each kept meticulous lists; the price of a Metro ride in Paris was as important to note as the cost of a Renoir. In a little red notebook, now stored in the BMA’s archives, Etta recorded that while in Paris on Feb. 15, 1906, she spent 6.50 francs to mend her shoes. And in the next weeks, she bought, among other things, a watercolor and a drawing from Matisse (150 francs); flowers for Gertrude Stein’s birthday (7.50); a Renoir lithograph (80); 11 drawings, 7 etchings from Picasso (price illegible) and lace (35). ‘You must keep looking’ But it was Claribel who filled box after box, cabinet after cabinet with things. “Claribel bought everything. Dozens of pads of paper. Pencils. Calendars. She was so cluttered that she could never find anything. She would have piles of pads in the corner but she could never find anything so she’d buy new pads,” says Nancy H. Ramage, an art history professor at Ithaca College in New York and a Cone grandniece. “Claribel had to move out of her apartment because she couldn’t find anything, she couldn’t fit in.” During that first visit with his aunts, Edward says, Claribel instructed him not to enter either of her apartments alone: She wanted to see his reaction to Matisse’s 1907 work, “Blue Nude.” To Edward, then a youngster from Greensboro, N.C., the painting was ugly. “I was appalled,” he recalls. His reaction was not unique: In 1907, when Matisse first showed the painting in Paris, critics reviled it. And in 1913, when it was displayed in Chicago, outraged art students burned it in effigy. His aunt was undaunted. “I didn’t expect you to like it,” Edward remembers her saying. “But you must keep looking at it.” The incident is vintage Claribel. She, after all, is the sister who pursued a career in science when few women did. She is the sister who purchased the most controversial artworks — works that, like the “Blue Nude,” can still seem shocking today. “Claribel was the dominating one,” Ramage says. “Etta was softer, sweeter, kinder. Claribel was not a gentle person at all. She was tough. In some ways, that worked well for the two of them because Claribel was very bold in personal and artistic tastes. She had the guts.” Born in 1864, Claribel graduated from the Women’s Medical College of Baltimore, studied at the Johns Hopkins Medical School and worked in Frankfurt and Paris. In 1903 she became president of her alma mater. Many of her most important art purchases were made in the seven years before her death in 1929, including “Blue Nude,” and Cezanne’s “Mont Sainte-Victoire Seen from the Bibemus Quarry.” A flimsy, palm-sized notebook, kept in the museum’s archives, contains clues to Claribel’s feelings about Matisse’s work. It contains what appear to be lecture notes, though when or if the lecture was given is unclear. At the top of the page is the hastily pencilled heading, “Matisse Slides.” Beneath it, in bold, looping script, Claribel writes: I am alive I am artist I am movement I am everything I exist Etta in charge Art and family took the place of career in Etta’s life. After graduating from high school in 1887, she ran her aging parents’ household, and upon their death, considered her apartment the Cone family “home.” It was she who first purchased art: Given $300 in 1898 by an elder brother to decorate her parents’ living room, she acquired five paintings by American Impressionist Theodore Robinson. Gradually, Etta’s interest in art was piqued. She began to study systematically, traveling to Europe for the first time in 1901 and returning again and again — often with a niece or nephew in tow. In 1933, it was Edward’s turn. He and his sister, Frances, went to Europe with their grand aunt. Paris was their first stop. Then Venice. Then Florence. In an article written in 1973 for American Scholar, Edward describes the trip: “Everyday life in Paris was largely governed by ritual. There were rules of time and precedence that determined exactly how one rose, bathed, breakfasted, dressed and prepared for the day, and similar ones that determined the procedures of retiring.” Luggage was to be counted at every step of the journey — not once, but six times. Cone party members always stayed at the Hotel Lutetia. Drank bottled water. Ordered two servings of butter. Salad dressing was to be made with lemon juice, not vinegar. And, Edward says, “Anytime we were going to do something she didn’t want to do, she would get indigestion. She would say, ‘my intestines are boiling.’ “ The itinerary clearly was Etta’s call. “Each day, she would tell us what we were going to do. We made five or six trips to the Louvre, studying different sections. We did the same in Venice and Florence. She was quite methodical.” One of Etta’s great joys was visiting artists in their studios. “It was clearly important for Etta to know the artist, to meet him,” says Jay Fisher, deputy director of the BMA. “What comes from that is an interest in the creative process. An interest in how the artists are thinking about color, composition, and how they are considering putting the pictures together.” It is no wonder then, that Etta purchased nearly all of the drawings and sketches in the collection; in them are clues to how the artist prepared for larger works. A small, smudged drawing, completed by Picasso in 1905, hints at his preparations for the masterpiece, “Family of Saltimbanques,” at the National Gallery of Art. The drawing, on display at the BMA, depicts a seated circus entertainer. At his feet, an outline of two children is visible, etched in charcoal, then rubbed out. Picasso replaced the children with a slender boy whose youthful innocence contrasts markedly with the decadence of the circus performer. “Works like these are the means by which we can see how Matisse and Picasso thought about art,” Fisher says. “We can see how they played around with ideas and explore possibilities before they finalize them in their art. “It is the most intimate thing an artist can leave for us, and Etta responded to that.”
