=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John O'Connor (cardinal) - Wikipedia]
John Joseph O'Connor (January 15, 1920 - May 3, 2000) was an American Catholic prelate who served as Archbishop of New York from 1984 until his death in 2000, and was made a cardinal in 1985. O'Connor previously served as a U.S. Navy chaplain (1952 to 1979), including four years as chief of chaplains, as an auxiliary bishop of the Military Vicariate of the United States (1979 to 1983), and ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_O%27Connor_(cardinal)

[Cardinal John Joseph O'Connor (1920-2000) - Find a Grave]
May 3, 2000 · The Mass opened with a procession of 1,000 of O'Connor's fellow clergy. At the end of the service, O'Connor's dark wood casket was carried down a narrow staircase beneath the altar, where all previous archbishops of New York are buried. Sixteen years of service at St. Patrick's had come to a close.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/9229/john_joseph-o%27connor

[Cardinal O'Connor's Funeral in New York | EWTN]
Cardinal O'Connor's family has asked me, Your Eminence, to acknowledge with their heartfelt gratitude the pastoral solicitude which Archbishop Gabriel Montalvo manifested towards Cardinal O'Connor particularly during his illness. The Bishops of the United States join me in thanking this splendid representative of the Holy Father in this country.
URL: https://www.ewtn.com/catholicism/library/cardinal-oconnors-funeral-in-new-york-3805

[City, world say goodbye to cardinal - Times Herald-Record]
May 9, 2000 · NEW YORK: Cardinal John O'Connor's journey from local priest to the nation's most well-known Roman Catholic, did not end yesterday with his body's interment beneath the altar at St. Patrick's ...
URL: https://www.recordonline.com/story/news/2000/05/09/city-world-say-goodbye-to/51193641007/

[O'Connor Is Laid to Rest God'S 'Faithful Servant' Entombed at St.pat'S]
May 9, 2000 · In a religious ceremony rich in solemn, timeless words and music, Cardinal O’Connor was prayerfully consigned to his final resting place yesterday – most fittingly, in the crypt beneath…
URL: https://www.nydailynews.com/2000/05/09/oconnor-is-laid-to-rest-gods-faithful-servant-entombed-at-stpats/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John O'Connor (cardinal) - Wikipedia] ---
John Joseph O'Connor (January 15, 1920 – May 3, 2000) was an American Catholic prelate who served as Archbishop of New York from 1984 until his death in 2000, and was made a cardinal in 1985.
O'Connor previously served as a U.S. Navy chaplain (1952 to 1979), including four years as chief of chaplains, as an auxiliary bishop of the Military Vicariate of the United States (1979 to 1983), and as Bishop of Scranton from 1983 to 1984.


--- [Cardinal John Joseph O'Connor (1920-2000) - Find a Grave] ---
Religious Figure. He was a product of his native Philadelphia, one of five children. He graduated West Catholic High School operated by the Christian Brothers. Ordained a priest on Dec 15, 1945, his first assignment was to St James High School in Chester, Pa. He continued work on advanced degrees, first a master's in advanced ethics from Villanova University and a doctorate at Georgetown in political science. He joined the Navy in 1952 in response to a call for more chaplains during the Korean War. When he retired 27 years later, he had risen to rear admiral and chief of Navy chaplains. After retirement, he was assigned to the Scranton, Pennsylvania area where he became a bishop. In January of 1984, he was named to succeed New York's Terence Cardinal Cooke, who had died. He was elevated to cardinal 18 months later. Diagnosed with brain cancer and even during the terminal stage, Cardinal O'Connor continued to conduct Mass and execute his duties as head of the archdiocese of New York. He died in the early evening in his small bedroom at his residence in the rear of St Patrick's. in Manhattan. With him were family members and close friends from the clergy. Four days of farewell was undertaken at St. Patrick's Cathedral culminating in a 40 minute service attended by 3,500 mourners. In attendance, President Bill & Hilary Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and nearby sat the two George Bushes with Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. The Mass opened with a procession of 1,000 of O'Connor's fellow clergy. At the end of the service, O'Connor's dark wood casket was carried down a narrow staircase beneath the altar, where all previous archbishops of New York are buried. Sixteen years of service at St. Patrick's had come to a close. Religious Figure. He was a product of his native Philadelphia, one of five children. He graduated West Catholic High School operated by the Christian Brothers. Ordained a priest on Dec 15, 1945, his first assignment was to St James High School in Chester, Pa. He continued work on advanced degrees, first a master's in advanced ethics from Villanova University and a doctorate at Georgetown in political science. He joined the Navy in 1952 in response to a call for more chaplains during the Korean War. When he retired 27 years later, he had risen to rear admiral and chief of Navy chaplains. After retirement, he was assigned to the Scranton, Pennsylvania area where he became a bishop. In January of 1984, he was named to succeed New York's Terence Cardinal Cooke, who had died. He was elevated to cardinal 18 months later. Diagnosed with brain cancer and even during the terminal stage, Cardinal O'Connor continued to conduct Mass and execute his duties as head of the archdiocese of New York. He died in the early evening in his small bedroom at his residence in the rear of St Patrick's. in Manhattan. With him were family members and close friends from the clergy. Four days of farewell was undertaken at St. Patrick's Cathedral culminating in a 40 minute service attended by 3,500 mourners. In attendance, President Bill & Hilary Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and nearby sat the two George Bushes with Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. The Mass opened with a procession of 1,000 of O'Connor's fellow clergy. At the end of the service, O'Connor's dark wood casket was carried down a narrow staircase beneath the altar, where all previous archbishops of New York are buried. Sixteen years of service at St. Patrick's had come to a close. Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/9229/john_joseph-o'connor: accessed ), memorial page for Cardinal John Joseph O'Connor (15 Jan 1920–3 May 2000), Find a Grave Memorial ID 9229, citing Saint Patrick's Cathedral, Midtown East, New York County, New York, USA; Maintained by AJ (contributor 1003). Add Photos for Cardinal John Joseph... Fulfill Photo Request for Cardinal John... Photo Request Fulfilled Thank you for fulfilling this photo request. An email has been sent to the person who requested the photo informing them that you have fulfilled their request There is an open photo request for this memorial Are you adding a grave photo that will fulfill this request? Oops, some error occurred while uploading your photo(s). Oops, something didn't work. Close this window, and upload the photo(s) again. Make sure that the file is a photo. Photos larger than 8 MB will be reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. All photos uploaded successfully, click on the <b>Done button</b> to see the photos in the gallery. General photo guidelines: Photos larger than 8.0 MB will be optimized and reduced. Photos larger than 20 MB will not be accepted. Each contributor can upload a maximum of 5 photos for a memorial. A memorial can have a maximum of 20 photos from all contributors. The sponsor of a memorial may add an additional 10 photos (for a total of 30 on the memorial). Include gps location with grave photos where possible. No animated GIFs, photos with additional graphics (borders, embellishments.) You are only allowed to leave one flower per day for any given memorial. Memorial Photos This is a carousel with slides. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate, or jump to a slide with the slide dots. Use Escape keyboard button or the Close button to close the carousel. Quickly see who the memorial is for and when they lived and died and where they are buried. Show Map If the memorial includes GPS coordinates, simply click 'Show Map' to view the gravesite location within the cemetery. If no GPS coordinates are available, you can contribute by adding them if you know the precise location. Photos For memorials with more than one photo, additional photos will appear here or on the photos tab. Photos Tab All photos appear on this tab and here you can update the sort order of photos on memorials you manage. To view a photo in more detail or edit captions for photos you added, click the photo to open the photo viewer. Flowers Flowers added to the memorial appear on the bottom of the memorial or here on the Flowers tab. To add a flower, click the Leave a Flower button. Family Members Family members linked to this person will appear here. Related searches Use the links under See more… to quickly search for other people with the same last name in the same cemetery, city, county, etc. Sponsor This Memorial Remove advertising from a memorial by sponsoring it for <strong>just $10</strong>. Previously sponsored memorials or famous memorials will not have this option. Share Share this memorial using social media sites or email. Save to Save to an Ancestry Tree, a virtual cemetery, your clipboard for pasting or Print. Edit or Suggest Edit Edit a memorial you manage or suggest changes to the memorial manager. Have Feedback Thanks for using Find a Grave, if you have any feedback we would love to hear from you. This photo is larger than 20 MB. Please resize to less than 20 MB and try again. You may not upload any more photos to this memorial There was a problem uploading this image "Unsupported file type" Uploading... Waiting... Success Failed Duplicate photo Not image owner Photo status will not allow linking This photo has already been added to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial This photo was not uploaded because this memorial already has photos This photo was not uploaded because you have already uploaded photos to this memorial Invalid File Type Uploading 1 Photo Uploading 2 Photos 1 Photo Uploaded 2 Photos Uploaded Added by GREAT NEWS! There is 1 volunteer for this cemetery. Sorry! There are no volunteers for this cemetery. Continuing with this request will add an alert to the cemetery page and any new volunteers will have the opportunity to fulfill your request. Enter numeric value Enter memorial Id Year should not be greater than current year Invalid memorial Duplicate entry for memorial You have chosen this person to be their own family member. Reported! This relationship is not possible based on lifespan dates. 0% Complete Saved Sign in or Register Sign in to Find a Grave Sign-in to link to existing account There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. There is a problem with your email/password. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. We’ve updated the security on the site. Please reset your password. Your account has been locked for 30 minutes due to too many failed sign in attempts. Please contact Find a Grave at [email protected] if you need help resetting your password. This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] This account has been disabled. If you have questions, please contact [email protected] Email not found Please complete the captcha to let us know you are a real person. Sign in to your existing Find a Grave account. You’ll only have to do this once—after your accounts are connected, you can sign in using your Ancestry sign in or your Find a Grave sign in. We found an existing Find a Grave account associated with your email address. Sign in below with your Find a Grave credentials to link your Ancestry account. After your accounts are connected you can sign in using either account. Please enter your email to sign in. Please enter your password to sign in. Please enter your email and password to sign in. There is a problem with your email/password. A system error has occurred. Please try again later. A password reset email has been sent to EmailID. If you don't see an email, please check your spam folder. We encountered an unknown problem. Please wait a few minutes and try again. If the problem persists contact Find a Grave. Password Reset Please enter your email address and we will send you an email with a reset password code. or Registration Options Welcome to Find a Grave Create your free account by choosing an option below. or Ancestry account link To create your account, Ancestry will share your name and email address with Find a Grave. To continue choose an option below. or If you already have a Find a Grave account, please sign in to link to Ancestry®. New Member Registration Email is mandatory Email and Password are mandatory This account already exists, but the email address still needs to be confirmed. Resend Activation Email Your password is not strong enough Invalid Email You must agree to Terms and Conditions Account already exists Please check the I'm not a robot checkbox Internal Server error occurred If you want to be a Photo Volunteer you must enter a ZIP Code or select your location on the map You must select an email preference We have sent you an activation email Your new password must contain one or more uppercase and lowercase letters, and one or more numbers or special characters. We just emailed an activation code to Please check your email and click on the link to activate your account. cemeteries found in will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within miles of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. cemeteries found within kilometers of your location will be saved to your photo volunteer list. Within 5 miles of your location. Within 5 kilometers of your location. 0 cemeteries found in . 0 cemeteries found. Add a cemetery to fulfill photo requests You can customize the cemeteries you volunteer for by selecting or deselecting below. Search above to list available cemeteries. Getting location… Loading... Loading... No cemeteries found Find a Grave Video Tutorials Default Language Translation on Find a Grave is an ongoing project. If you notice a problem with the translation, please send a message to [email protected] and include a link to the page and details about the problem. Thanks for your help! Preferred Language We have set your language to based on information from your browser. You can choose another language below: Welcome Back! Thanks for signing in. Your account will not be marked as inactive. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave. Your account has been reactivated. To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . To make any adjustments to your photo volunteering settings, notification settings, and more, visit your Account Settings. Learn more about your account and how you can help and contribute at Find a Grave here . Sign out successful Return to the email you received and click on the link to contact us.


--- [Cardinal O'Connor's Funeral in New York | EWTN] ---
Cardinal O'Connor's Funeral in New York CARDINAL O’CONNOR’S FUNERAL IN NEW YORK Introductory remarks Cardinal Angelo Sodano Church must be unambiguously pro-life A concelebrated Mass of Christian Burial was held at St Patrick's Cathedral in New York, USA, on Monday afternoon, 8 May, for the late Cardinal John J. O'Connor, Archbishop of New York, who died on 3 May (see L'Osservatore Romano English edition, 10 May, p. 3). Principal celebrant of the solemn liturgy was Cardinal Angelo Sodano, Secretary of State, the Holy Father's personal representative. Joining him were Cardinal Bernard F. Law, Archbishop of Boston, who preached the homily, 13 other Cardinals, over 100 Bishops, President William Clinton, former President George Bush, many other dignitaries of Church and State, ecumenical representatives and a standing-room-only congregation of priests, religious and faithful. At the start of the liturgy Cardinal Sodano briefly addressed those assembled. In his homily, Cardinal Law spoke of Cardinal O'Connor's zealous proclamation of the "Gospel of Life". When the homilist said that the late prelate had reminded us that "the Church must always be unambiguously pro-life", he received a two minute standing ovation. At the end of the Mass, the Cardinal's body was entombed beneath the cathedral's main altar. Here is the text of Cardinal Angelo Sodano's remarks at the beginning of the funeral Mass. Mr President and Distinguished Guests, Brothers and Sisters in the Lord, We begin this Eucharistic sacrifice which we offer for our beloved Cardinal O'Connor who has left us. It is a sacrifice of praise to almighty God, who has given us in the person of the Archbishop of New York such a generous and faithful pastor. It is a hymn of gratitude to the Father in heaven for the gift of this great churchman who has done so much both for the Catholic community and for so many men and women of good will. His name will be forever etched on the annals of the history of the Church. Our hearts are heavy with sorrow at his passing, but today we want to remember the prayer of the saints: "Lord, we do not complain because you have taken him from us, but rather we will thank you for having given him to us". This sacrifice of praise is also our prayer for the Cardinal's eternal rest. The Church teaches us that every human being is imperfect and needs the mercy of God. Therefore, we wish to entrust to God, our loving Father of Mercies, this good and faithful servant, as we ask him to welcome him into the kingdom of the saints and angels. As a sign of his profound esteem for the late Cardinal O'Connor and to demonstrate concretely his spiritual union with the Church in New York, the Holy Father sent me to represent him personally at this solemn liturgy. I wish to reiterate the expression of his condolences along with my own to the entire archdiocesan family, to his brother, sisters and relatives, and to all those of good will who mourn his passing. Together in prayer, we beg the Lord to welcome him into paradise. Homily Cardinal Bernard F. Law Your Eminence, Cardinal Sodano, your presence as our principal celebrant is a deeply appreciated sign of our Holy Father's pastoral solicitude for this great Archdiocese of New York and a sign also of the Holy Father's and your own friendship and esteem for Cardinal O'Connor. Thank you for your presence. Cardinal O'Connor's family has asked me, Your Eminence, to acknowledge with their heartfelt gratitude the pastoral solicitude which Archbishop Gabriel Montalvo manifested towards Cardinal O'Connor particularly during his illness. The Bishops of the United States join me in thanking this splendid representative of the Holy Father in this country. My intent and your expectation is not that I deliver a eulogy. Cardinal O'Connor's often repeated request was that we gather at this time to pray for him. That we do, in the context of the Eucharistic sacrifice which is the source and summit of the Church's life, and was so clearly the source and summit of the life of the brother, the uncle, the friend, the priest, the bishop whom we bury this day, We turn to the Scripture passages just read, and we look to the book of Cardinal O'Connor's life for consolation in our sadness and for inspiration in our lives. Last Wednesday evening, when it became evident that death would come very soon, his family, his closest collaborators and friends began the Church's prayers for the dying. In the midst of those prayers, there was a moment of profound grief as each of us realized with a sudden clarity what was happening. Just as suddenly, we realized our tears were not for him, but for ourselves. Our hearts were consoled by "that mystery hidden from ages and generations past but now revealed to his holy ones", that mystery which St Paul explained to the Colossians as the mystery of Christ in you, your hope of glory". The inspired insight of the author of Wisdom spoke of "the hope full of immortality" in the souls of the just. He consoles us as we ponder his words in the light of their fulfilment in the risen Christ: "The souls of the just are in the hand of God ... they are in peace". Jesus, who suffered, died and rose from the dead, is our peace. Our hope, as was the hope of Cardinal O'Connor, is to drink of the fruit of the vine again in the reign of God. The wondrous Passover meal which Jesus shared with the apostles the night before he died fulfils the deepest longings of every human heart for freedom. "This is my body", he said over the bread. And over the wine he said: "This is my blood, the blood of the covenant, to be poured out on behalf of many". He instructed us to do this in memory of him. And so we do, in this and in every Mass. The meal is forever linked to the sacrifice in which Christ offered himself for us, taking upon himself the burden of our sins and our death so that we might have forgiveness and everlasting life. To have known Cardinal John O'Connor is to have known that what we do at this altar was at the heart of his life each day. Just a few weeks ago in a visit to his home we concelebrated Mass. It was so clearly for him the highlight of that day. The course of his illness had made it impossible for him to read. Already his ability to carry on a sustained conversation was impaired. With strength and conviction he was nonetheless able to recite from memory the Eucharistic Prayer. So much was the Mass a part of his life that when some things began to fade, the Eucharist did not. He was a man of profound and uncomplicated faith in a good and gracious God who has revealed himself in Christ Jesus. He believed in the Holy Catholic Church. He was unswerving in his loyalty to the Holy Father as the successor of St Peter. The words of St Paul found resonance in his life: "I became a minister of this Church through the commission God gave me to preach among you his words in all its fullness". Certainly he did not shy away from the task of preaching. He made this pulpit unique in the history of the Catholic Church in the United States. God gifted him with a keen and subtle intellect, an uncommon rhetorical skill, a knack for the dramatic gesture, a sharp wit, and an outrageous sense of humour, all of which he used in the service of preaching. No one proclaimed what Pope John Paul II has called the Gospel of Life with greater effectiveness than Cardinal O'Connor. It was in proclaiming that Gospel of Life that he became a national and International public figure. Inevitably there is an effort to categorize public figures as conservative or liberal. Cardinal O'Connor, like the Church herself, defies such categorization. He was eloquent and unremitting in his defence of the life of the unborn as well as his support of the value of human life to the moment of natural death. Perhaps his most lasting testament in support of life will be the work of the Sisters of Life, a religious community he founded and loved so dearly. As he was dying last Wednesday, as a result of a disease with terrible consequences, he bore witness one last time to the moral evil of euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide. He denounced capital punishment. He championed the rights of workers. He worked for a. just peace in the Middle East and Northern Ireland. Were he in this pulpit today, he would applaud the hope for peace in the IRA's announcement on decommissioning. He preached by his example the necessity of seeing in every human being, particularly the poor, the sick, the forgotten, the Image of a God to be loved and to be served. What a great legacy he has left us in his consistent reminder that the Church must always be unambiguously pro-life. A former Navy chaplain, Bishop John McNamara, retailed for me his first meeting with Cardinal O'Connor. Let me quote from his reminiscence: "Fr O'Connor, the division chaplain of the Marines, came up from Viet Nam to interview the new clergy. I remember his first words to me. 'I'm John O'Connor, what can I do for you?'. I often thought of this meeting because those words, 'What can I do for you?', so characterize and personify the John O'Connor I have known for 35 years". So many of us have heard him say, "What can I do for you?". There was no burden too heavy, no problem too complex for his genuine compassion and desire to help. To understand this in him is to understand that he was, to the core of his being, a priest. He ministered in the person of Christ. His life was configured to that of Christ as priest and as victim. Again, the words of St Paul to the Colossians found expression in the life of Cardinal O'Connor: "Even now", wrote St Paul, "I find my joy in the suffering I endure for you. In my own flesh I will fill up what is lacking in the sufferings of Christ for the sake of his body, the Church". John O'Connor lived these words. He entered into the lives of countless thousands by identifying with their sufferings in union with Christ. It was thus that he viewed his final illness. He saw himself in solidarity with other cancer patients, and he offered up the sufferings of his illness with the sufferings of Christ. In all of this, he knew an incredible peace. What a grace it was for his sister, Mary Ward and other members of the Cardinal's family, for Mons. Gregory Mustaciuolo, who could not have been a more loyal friend and attentive son in the Lord to the Cardinal, for Eileen White, his special counsel, for his colleagues and friends to be gathered around his bedside when he breathed his last at 8.05 in the evening of last Wednesday, 3 May 2000. We prayed then, and we pray now: "Saints of God, come to his aid! Come to meet him, angels of the Lord! Receive his soul and present him to God the Most High". Taken from: L'Osservatore Romano Weekly Edition in English 17 May 2000, page 4 L'Osservatore Romano is the newspaper of the Holy See. The Weekly Edition in English is published for the US by: The Cathedral Foundation L'Osservatore Romano English Edition 320 Cathedral St. Baltimore, MD 21201 Subscriptions: (410) 547-5315 Fax: (410) 332-1069 [email protected]


--- [City, world say goodbye to cardinal - Times Herald-Record] ---
City, world say goodbye to cardinal NEW YORK: Cardinal John O'Connor's journey from local priest to the nation's most well-known Roman Catholic, did not end yesterday with his body's interment beneath the altar at St. Patrick's Cathedral. His generous spirit will go on in all the lives that he has touched. The Associated Press Hailed by friends and followers at a touching funeral Mass, Cardinal John O'Connor arrived yesterday at his final resting place beneath St. Patrick's Cathedral - completing his journey from local priest to the nation's most prominent Roman Catholic. President Clinton headed a long list of dignitaries attending the funeral Mass for O'Connor, who came to New York in 1984 from Scranton, Pa. O'Connor proved a perfect fit in the media capital of the nation, serving as Pope John Paul II's American point man. "He made this pulpit unique in the history of the Catholic Church in the United States," said Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, a close friend and confidante of O'Connor for the last 35 years. "God gifted him with a keen and subtle intellect, an uncommon rhetorical skill, a knack for the dramatic gesture, a sharp wit and an outrageous sense of humor - all of which he used in the service of preaching," Law said in a heartfelt homily. The pope, through Vatican secretary of state Cardinal Angelo Sodano, sent his condolences to O'Connor's family. Speaking at the start of the service, Sodano - who carried the late cardinal's staff into the church - sounded a theme of celebration rather than loss. "Lord, we don't complain because you have taken him from us," Sodano told a hushed crowd of 3,500 inside the great Manhattan cathedral. "But rather we will thank you for giving him to us." The Mass combined pageantry and prayer, opening with a 45-minute procession of more than 1,000 of O'Connor's fellow clergy, plus seminarians, Knights of Columbus and other Catholic groups. Each passing priest gently touched the cardinal's coffin, which was draped with a white linen cloth. Many of the priests wore special vestments designed for the pope's 1995 visit to New York. Among those in attendance was Bishop Edward Egan of Bridgeport, Conn., the perceived front-runner to replace O'Connor. At the end of the service, O'Connor's dark wood casket was splashed with holy water, symbolic of the sacrament of baptism. It was then carried by pallbearers to a crypt beneath the altar where O'Connor had preached most Sundays for the last 16 years. The church erupted in spontaneous applause for the cardinal just before the casket disappeared from the church. Alexander Garrett, an 8-year-old from Manhattan who was born with just one leg, propped himself up on small crutches and stood clapping in the aisle as the casket went past. Earlier, there was another ovation, when Law linked O'Connor's opposition to abortion, euthanasia and capital punishment and said, "What a great legacy he has left us in his constant reminder that the church must always be unambiguously pro-life." The applause lasted 75 seconds and grew into a standing ovation that spread from the back of the church to the front, eventually enveloping even Clinton, Giuliani and other politicians who support abortion rights. O'Connor was involved in planning the funeral, handpicking many of the songs and prayers. The recessional hymn, "Lift High the Cross," was performed when O'Connor was installed as head of the archdiocese. O'Connor was often most at ease among the sick and poor of his 2.4 million member flock, but his funeral prompted an outpouring of high-profile mourners at the invitation-only Mass. Attending were Clinton and his wife, Hillary; former President George Bush; presidential candidates Al Gore and George W. Bush; United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan; U.S. Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Charles Schumer; Gov. George Pataki; Mayor Rudolph Giuliani; and 15 cardinals from the Vatican, the United States and four other countries. The cardinal's two sisters and a brother attended. There were also those whose lives the cardinal had touched. U.S. Rep. Carolyn McCarthy was a Long Island housewife in 1993 when her husband was killed and her son critically wounded by a gunman on the Long Island Rail Road. The cardinal sent her a letter offering his sympathy but promising the shootings would change the path of her life. McCarthy was subsequently elected to Congress as an antigun candidate. "That's what made him a great man," she said. "He always reached out to ordinary people. It didn't matter what religion you were. He was truly a shepherd to all of us." Outside the church, on a sweltering 91-degree day, hundreds of people stood 8-to-10 deep behind police barricades as the funeral Mass was broadcast over loudspeakers. Over the previous four days, tens of thousands of New Yorkers visited O'Connor's open casket to pay their final respects. O'Connor, 80, died last Wednesday after a lengthy battle with cancer. After the Mass, an honor guard carried O'Connor's casket down a narrow staircase to a crypt beneath St. Patrick's altar, where all previous archbishops of New York are buried. His coffin was placed near that of Pierre Toussaint, a 19th-century Haitian whose cause for sainthood was supported by O'Connor. That portion of the ceremony was private, with only O'Connor's relatives and a small group of church officials present.


--- [O'Connor Is Laid to Rest God'S 'Faithful Servant' Entombed at St.pat'S] ---
In a religious ceremony rich in solemn, timeless words and music, Cardinal O’Connor was prayerfully consigned to his final resting place yesterday – most fittingly, in the crypt beneath the altar of his beloved St. Patrick’s Cathedral. “Into your hands, O Father of Mercies, we commend our brother John,” said Bishop Patrick Sheridan, one of seven auxiliary bishops to O’Connor. With that, as the choir sang Mozart’s stately hymn “Laudate Dominum,” eight pallbearers carried the uncovered Brazilian mahogany coffin in procession from the front of the altar down the 18 steps of a narrow stairway to a niche near Pierre Toussaint, a former slave whom O’Connor proposed for sainthood. There, O’Connor was placed among six cardinals, two archbishops, one bishop, one monsignor and Toussaint. To his left is the final resting place of Bishop John McGuire; to his right is an empty space. A plaque on one end of his coffin is inscribed: “John Cardinal O’Connor, 1920-2000, archbishop 1984-2000. ” Beneath it is his coat of arms. In a last spontaneous salute, the congregation of 3,500 invited guests – among them President Clinton and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, ex-President George Bush, Vice President Gore, Gov. Pataki and Mayor Giuliani – applauded as the coffin vanished down the stairs to the crypt. “Service is the rent we pay for space on Earth, and the cardinal departed paid in full,” said former Mayor David Dinkins. As the pageantry and pomp unfolded inside, several hundred people stood eight to 10 deep outside, listening to the service over loudspeakers along three blocks of Fifth Ave. in temperatures that hit 91 degrees. As more than 500 priests, 150 bishops, 15 cardinals and ranks of acolytes, deacons, seminarians, friars, nuns and members of papal fraternal orders passed through the great bronze doors of St. Patrick’s, the mourners in the street joined in singing the introductory hymn, “All Creatures of Our God and King,” written by St. Francis of Assisi in the 13th century. Bright sunlight streaming through the stained-glass windows and the twinkle of chandeliers filled the great Gothic cathedral with a soft glow. As they passed the coffin in the central aisle, many priests touched its white linen pall or nodded in respect. Among them was Bishop Edward Egan of Bridgeport, Conn., reportedly O’Connor’s successor. More than 100 members of O’Connor’s family filled one section at the front of the cathedral. Earlier, after the cathedral was unexpectedly closed – shutting out hundreds of last-minute mourners waiting to pay their respects – the relatives made their last, sad goodbyes. “A lot of us held his hand and said a little prayer, and some cried,” said George Carr, of Erial, N. J., son-in-law of O’Connor’s 85-year-old sister, Dorothy Hamilton. He said he was not surprised at the outpouring of respect and affection for O’Connor. “If you knew the guy,” Carr said, “you wouldn’t be surprised, either. ” As a retired Navy admiral, O’Connor was entitled to all the honors of a full military funeral, but he declined, saying he wanted only the service accorded all Catholics. For all the ecclesiastical splendor and VIP guests, the service was essentially the one that any Catholic can receive, with many of its prayers, melodies and readings spelled out in the Vatican’s “Order of Christian Funerals. ” There were several changes at O’Connor’s request, though, among them the singing of “Lift High the Cross,” a hymn sung when he was installed 16 years ago as archbishop of New York. One reading, also at his request, was by Mother Agnes Donovan, mother superior of the Sisters of Life order that O’Connor established several years ago. Another reading at the cardinal’s request came from a Braille text, by Therese Snyder of the Catholic Guild for the Blind. As a mark of his esteem for O’Connor, the Pope sent the Vatican’s No. 2 man, Secretary of State Angelo Sodano, as his representative. The last time Sodano represented the Pope was at the funeral of Mother Teresa. Sodano, who carried O’Connor’s crosier, the shepherd’s crook that is the symbol of a bishop’s role as pastor, told the congregation this was not an occasion for tears, but for a celebration of a life well lived. “Lord, we don’t complain because you have taken him from us,” Sodano said, “but rather we will thank you for giving him to us. ” The homily, delivered by Bernard Cardinal Law of Boston, O’Connor’s longtime friend and ideological ally, was a tribute to the cardinal’s style and message. At one point, he reminded the congregation that in every sermon, O’Connor stoutly and unambiguously attacked abortion. With that, applause welled up and grew until everyone, including Clinton – who did not clap – was standing. The applause died down after one minute, 37 seconds, and Law added, “I see he hasn’t left the pulpit. ” Calling the cardinal a “good and faithful servant,” Law noted that O’Connor celebrated Mass at the cathedral every Sunday that he was in New York. “He made this pulpit unique in the history of the Catholic Church in the United States,” Law said. “God gifted him with a keen and subtle intellect, an uncommon rhetorical skill, knack for the dramatic gesture, a sharp wit and outrageous sense of humor – all, he used in the service of preaching. “
