=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Happy Valley (TV series) - Wikipedia]
Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series, set and filmed in the Calder Valley, West Yorkshire. Starring Sarah Lancashire, James Norton and Siobhan Finneran, it was written and created by Sally Wainwright and directed by Wainwright, Euros Lyn and Tim Fywell.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Happy_Valley_(TV_series)

['Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2 Recap: Catch Up Before the Series Ends]
Apr 24, 2023 · In an ensuing argument, John strangles and mutilates Vicky and burns down her flat to make her death look like the work of the serial killer who has been murdering sex workers in the region.
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/1090397/happy-valley-seasons-1-2-recap-final-ending/

[Happy Valley season 2 Recap - Everything you need to know | Woman & Home]
Jan 9, 2023 · The key murder investigation of the series surrounded Vicky Fleming, who was killed by her married lover, John Wadsworth who killed her after she tried to blackmail him for money. As a police officer, John made the murder look like the work of a serial killer who had been murdering prostitutes in the local area.
URL: https://www.womanandhome.com/life/royal-news/our-happy-valley-season-2-recap-reveals-why-the-last-season-of-the-gritty-police-drama-had-fans-hooked/

[Happy Valley deleted scene shows John try to end things with Vicky ...]
Apr 17, 2016 · This deleted scene from Happy Valley shows John begging Vicky to stop blackmailing him. Series two of Happy Valley saw DS John Wadsworth eventually snap and kill Vicky Fleming, who had been ...
URL: https://metro.co.uk/2016/04/17/happy-valley-deleted-scene-shows-john-wadsworth-try-to-break-things-off-with-vicky-fleming-with-disastrous-results-5823106/

[Happy Valley recap: the series two finale – come hell or high bridge]
Mar 15, 2016 — Happy Valley recap: the series two finale – come hell or high bridge ... Vicky Fleming!” on TV in 2016, I wanna hear it. So John ends up on ...
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2016/mar/15/happy-valley-recap-the-series-two-finale-come-hell-or-high-bridge


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Happy Valley (TV series) - Wikipedia] ---
Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series, set and filmed in the Calder Valley, West Yorkshire. Starring Sarah Lancashire, James Norton and Siobhan Finneran, it was written and created by Sally Wainwright and directed by Wainwright, Euros Lyn and Tim Fywell. The first series began on BBC One on 29 April 2014, the second on 9 February 2016, and the third and final series on 1 January 2023. It won the 2015 BAFTA Award for Best Drama Series, and won another BAFTA for Best Drama for the second series.


--- ['Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2 Recap: Catch Up Before the Series Ends] ---
What Happened in ‘Happy Valley’ Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before the Final Season After a hiatus of seven years, Happy Valley is coming back to American TV for a third and final season, premiering on BBC America on Monday, May 22, at 10/9c, with episodes streaming the same day on AMC+ and Acorn TV. The first two seasons of the British crime procedural are currently available on both of those streaming platforms, but in case you don’t have time for a full debrief on the action so far, here’s a recap of Seasons 1 and 2. (Content warning: Happy Valley includes storylines involving sexual assault and suicide.) As the series starts, viewers meet Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire), a police sergeant in a West Yorkshire community beset by drug problems. Catherine’s daughter Becky died by suicide, and Catherine blames a man named Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) for Becky’s death, since Royce raped Becky. Now Catherine is raising Ryan (Rhys Connah), the child that resulted from that rape, and living with her sister, Clare Cartwright (Siobhan Finneran), who’s recovering from a heroin addiction. Royce is still around town, unfortunately. In fact, he gets involved in a ransom scheme soon after getting out of prison. Accountant Kevin Weatherill (Steve Pemberton) wants more money from his boss, Nevison Gallagher (George Costigan), so he teams up with the criminal Ashley Cowgill (Joe Armstrong) to kidnap Nevison’s daughter, Ann (Charlie Murphy), and demand ransom. Cowgill brings in two goons, Royce and another man named Lewis Whippey (Adam Long). Kevin has a crisis of conscience about the ransom idea, but it comes too late — the criminals have already abducted Ann. So Kevin goes to the police station and starts giving a statement to Catherine, but he leaves before detailing everything. It gets worse: Whippey later discovers that Royce raped Ann as well. Royce also murders police officer Kirsten McAskill (Sophie Rundle), Catherine’s protégé, when she pulls over his van for speeding. After spotting Royce around town, Catherine does some digging and uncovers evidence of the kidnapping. She learns about the abductee when Nevison and his wife finally tell the police about the kidnapping, defying Cowgill’s orders. Catherine visits the house of Royce’s mother’s, Lynn Dewhurst (Caroline O’Neill), and that happens to be where Royce stashed Ann after Cowgill ordered him to kill her. Catherine finds and frees Ann, but Royce attacks her, and the ensuing fight lands Catherine in the hospital. While Catherine recuperates, police arrest Kevin and Cowgill for abduction, but Cowgill snitches about a drug smuggling ring in exchange for witness protection. He never makes it into that protection, though: He’s gunned down by other smugglers before assuming his new identity. As for the other two accomplices, Royce overhears Whippey telling a friend about all the crimes Royce has committed — raping Ann, killing Kirsten, attacking Catherine — and so Royce adds Whippey to his list of murder victims. Royce, who previously let slip to Ryan that he’s his father, then abducts the boy and even threatens to kill him, but Catherine finds Ryan’s bicycle and then Ryan before it’s too late. Season 2 starts with Catherine finding Lynn’s decomposing body. Improbably, Catherine finds herself a suspect in the case — and in two similar killings — because of her animosity toward Royce. And Royce, now imprisoned, also blames Catherine for Lynn’s death. He even makes a lunge at Catherine, despite his handcuffs, at Lynn’s funeral. Viewers also find out in Season 2 that Royce has forged a connection with a woman named Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson), who’s working under a fake name as a teaching assistant at Ryan’s school. And Frances tries to get Ryan to become closer to Royce, even buying a birthday present for the boy on Royce’s behalf. Frances eventually realizes, though, that she’s not as engaged to Royce as she thinks she is. In fact, Royce is “engaged” to many other women. Meanwhile, a detective sergeant, John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle), is blackmailed by Vicky Fleming (Amelia Bullmore), his mistress, who tells him to either pay her a ransom each month or leave his wife and children. In an ensuing argument, John strangles and mutilates Vicky and burns down her flat to make her death look like the work of the serial killer who has been murdering sex workers in the region. Eventually, a farmer named Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) confesses to the crimes to Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch), his mother, who then shoots him dead to save him from a life in prison. Alison then overdoses on diazepam, and Catherine arrives at the farm to find Daryl dead and Alison clinging to life. Catherine arrests Alison, who maintains that Daryl said he wasn’t involved in Vicky’s death. After hearing from Clare’s new boyfriend about Vicky’s blackmailing ways and hearing from others about John’s violent streak, Catherine realizes that John was the one who killed Vicky. She confronts her colleague on a bridge, and he confesses to the killing before jumping to his death. Season 2 ends with Royce receiving a letter in prison from Ryan. And Catherine still has no idea that her grandson is in touch with his criminal father… Happy Valley, Season 3 Premiere, Monday, May 22, 10/9c, BBC America (and streaming on AMC+ and Acorn TV)


--- [Happy Valley season 2 Recap - Everything you need to know | Woman & Home] ---
Our Happy Valley season 2 recap reveals why the last season of the gritty police drama had fans hooked Here is a quick reminder about the major events and storylines in Happy Valley season 2 as fans prepare for the latest installment Sign up to our free daily email for the latest royal and entertainment news, interesting opinion, expert advice on styling and beauty trends, and no-nonsense guides to the health and wellness questions you want answered. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Want to add more newsletters? Happy Valley season 3 has begun, but some fans are trying to recall what took place last season! Here's what you need to know... Happy Valley season 3 launched on Sunday, January 1, 2023, and while some fans are already loving the drama, others are struggling to remember what exactly took place last season. Seeing as season 2 was released in 2016, fans can be forgiven for struggling to remember all the details from the series that was first released 7 years ago! So here is a swift recap of the events in season 2 of Happy Valley... Happy Valley season 2 recap Season 2 began with Tommy Lee Royce locked up in prison, following his attempt to kill Ryan and himself in the barge at the end of season 1. He was also incarcerated for other offenses that took place in the season such as; moving drugs for Ashley Cowgill, the rape, kidnapping, and drug abuse of Ann Gallagher, and the murder of police officer Kirsten McAskill who he brutally crushed between two cars. Ann begins the second season as a police officer, essentially taking on Kirsten's role from the first season. Ann proves that she is able to move past her traumatic experiences and becomes an asset to the team, ultimately helping Catherine to solve the major murder case of the season. Ryan's teaching assistant Frances Drummond, played by Shirley Henderson, (Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Bridget Jones' Diary) falls in love with Tommy Lee Royce while he is behind bars and tried to encourage Ryan to get in contact with him. Catherine discovered that Frances has been grooming Ryan and manages to convince her that her engagement is just a sham and he is involved in relationships with many lonely women that visit him in jail. However, before Frances stopped seeing Tommy in prison, she managed to take a letter Ryan wrote to his father and pass it on to him in prison. This could be a key plotline in the next series as a small connection between Tommy and Ryan was established as the series ended. Clare finished the season with a boyfriend Neil (played by Con O’Neill), who Catherine had begun to accept, even though she did arrest him in the second series for being drunk and disorderly. Neil was key to discovering who the murderer of the second season was after he told Catherine about his relationship with Vicky Fleming and how she blackmailed him. Sign up to our free daily email for the latest royal and entertainment news, interesting opinion, expert advice on styling and beauty trends, and no-nonsense guides to the health and wellness questions you want answered. The key murder investigation of the series surrounded Vicky Fleming, who was killed by her married lover, John Wadsworth who killed her after she tried to blackmail him for money. As a police officer, John made the murder look like the work of a serial killer who had been murdering prostitutes in the local area. When his actions are pieced together by Catherine, she chases John down to arrest him. Rather than facing the consequences of his actions, John jumps off a bridge at the end of the season, killing himself. Darryl Garr was responsible for all the killings of prostitutes, the other major investigation in the series. Darryl was killed by his mother Alison, who shot him and then overdosed in an attempt to kill herself too, concluding this storyline in the show. The series also ended with Catherine seeing a therapist and making her way to reconciling her grief surrounding her daughter Becky's suicide. Following the release of the first episode of season 3 on Sunday, January 1, 2023, the six-episode long season has begun to be released by BBC every Sunday night. The first two episodes are also available to binge on BBC iPlayer, as are the first and second seasons of the show. Laura is the Entertainment Editor for woman&home who primarily covers television, film, and celebrity news. Laura loves drinking and eating and can often be found trying to get reservations at London's trendiest restaurants. When she's not wining and dining, Laura can also be found travelling, baking, and hiking with her dog.


--- [Happy Valley deleted scene shows John try to end things with Vicky ...] ---
This deleted scene from Happy Valley shows John begging Vicky to stop blackmailing him. Series two of Happy Valley saw DS John Wadsworth eventually snap and kill Vicky Fleming, who had been blackmailing him in an attempt to make him leave his wife. In the scene, which never aired, John visits Vicky with the first installment of £1000 which she was forcing him to pay every month. But he eventually pleads with her to stop asking for the money as he can’t afford it. ‘I can’t do this more than once Vicky, I just don’t have that kind of money,’ he says. But Vicky replied: ‘You earn a good wage and so does Amanda…’ http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p03q97kj/player”A desperate John pleads with her to ‘call it a day’, but Vicky proves just how manipulative she can be by refusing the money and asking that he leaves his family. ‘You hate your kids’ she says, ‘they drive you up the wall.’ John shouts back: You drugged me and then you took those pictures of me, you f-ing mad…I don’t think you’re well mentally, Vicky.’ ‘I did those things because I am desperate to make you see how much I care about you,’ she replies. Pushed to the edge, in the series viewers saw John snap and kill Vicky by strangling her in a struggle. MORE: Is Sarah Lancashire drama Happy Valley set to run for another TWO series? MORE: Happy Valley’s penultimate episode delivered a huge, deadly twist and viewers can’t cope


--- [Happy Valley recap: the series two finale – come hell or high bridge] ---
Let’s go back to the start. Remember that opening scene? Sarah Lancashire, cool as you like in aviators, as Sgt Catherine Cawood, tells her sister the story of some council-estate sheep rustlers? At the time, it seemed like a daringly playful way to lead us to Catherine stumbling across the body of Tommy Lee Royce’s mother and kicking off the hunt for a serial killer. But no: the killer turns out to be the owner of the stolen livestock. Sally Wainwright, you fiendish genius. You might say that this, like much of the breathless finale, is too neat. Season two’s quest to replace one central narrative with several interlocking stories has often made it less than the sum of its individual scenes. But what scenes! Put up with Catherine being airlifted into every part of the narrative, and episode six is magnificent: eventful but delicate, hypertense and softened with sly humour. “Man up, princess! Use your initiative” First up on Catherine’s to-do list: a visit to Ryan’s school, to lay down the law to the headteacher about “Miss Wheland” being a dangerous crank. A blood-freezing moment as she passes her potential nemesis on the way out. Then Catherine discovers the carnage at the farm, because she chooses to go there and reassure Alison and Daryl that the sheep-rustlers will be dealt with. Alison is face-down in her son’s viscera and half-dead herself on pills and booze. While mothering a shocked Shafiq and saving Alison’s life (“You’re NOT lying down UNTIL you’ve been SICK”), Catherine works out why Alison killed her own child. The way she recites the caution – “I’m arresting you. On suspicion of murder” – fills those familiar words with tender tragedy. “You do not have to say anything” becomes a merciful assurance. In Catherine’s bloodied arms, Alison closes her eyes. As it turns out, after this scene has wrapped Alison must have awoken again and become rather talkative. Wainwright has played to her strengths, focusing on the hard details and personal interactions of an extreme situation. The story moves on via CID high-flyer Shackleton, who relates to John Wadsworth the other thing Alison revealed about Daryl. “He also said he didn’t do that Vicky Fleming one ... and he told his mother, he wouldn’t have had to have done that last one if people hadn’t kept thinking he’d done that Vicky Fleming one.” Really? Daryl said that, and Alison reported it while semi-comatose? We’ll take it, because it sets in train the end of John’s attempt to get away with murder. “It makes you seem a little bit … unhinged” First, though, it’s Catherine v Frances. Tommy Lee Royce’s whispering imp of death has been rumbled as a fraudster. Cecily Wheland is her deceased sister: stealing her identity and becoming an oversexed prison visitor is, for Frances, some kind of grief-induced psychotic episode. Catherine phones this info through to Clare, who is on her allotment and is filmed close-up, as if Frances might be … behind her! With a shovel! It’s OK, she isn’t – she’s being arrested at the school and looks chastened as soon as the cops address her by her real name. So when Frances is bailed and Catherine turns up at her house for a little chat, the chances of our hero being murdered as planned have already receded. What takes place instead is a quietly seething war of words, as Shirley Henderson embodies someone whose wild misapprehensions are deeply set. Her needling whisper is almost inaudible as she explains how she sees Tommy as a product of his upbringing who deserves to know his son, whatever he has done – not that he has done anything. Frances holds a belief that dreadful experience has forced Catherine to abandon: everyone can be saved. Catherine’s attempt to talk her round is a fantastic portrayal of what it’s like to try and reason with delusion – especially if, as in Frances’ case, there’s religious belief at the core of it. There are just too many layers of wrong to cut through. While Catherine’s struggling with that, Det Supt Shepherd is on TV appealing for fresh info about the night Vicky Fleming died – watched by Neil, who realises he must do something, and John’s wife Amanda, who just … realises. “What have I done? Nothing! Why? Why me?” Yet again Wainwright finds the ideal solution to a problem her story has created. John has been wrestling with guilt ever since he killed his secret lover – but he’s not been able to say anything. Kevin Doyle’s done a brilliant job with micro-expressions, but … what else? The answer: that night, John drives himself to an unlit corner of Tesco car park to scream and pound the steering wheel, bemoaning his terrible luck. This is minutely observed – John’s been undone by his own pathetic cowardice, and can’t confront the vicious violence that came out of him when he was caught out. Of course he thinks he’s been hard done by. He’s just an ordinary bloke. He didn’t mean to strangle that woman. It was her fault! He makes that point forcefully, alone in his car outside a supermarket that’s closed for the night. Before lunch the next day, the game is up. Witnesses who saw John and Vicky have come forward; Neil has explained Vicky’s blackmail methods. Ann has remembered John asking her where he might quickly get £1,000 ; Amanda’s beau Graham has come into the station with their theory. All this happens with thrilling, gathering speed. Of course, it’s Catherine who takes Graham’s statement, and it’s she who runs into John as he makes a panicked exit. But if there’s a more exciting line of script than “Bravo November Four Five, I’m chasing – it’s complicated, but I’m chasing DS John Wadsworth, who I believe has been involved in the murder of Vicky Fleming!” on TV in 2016, I wanna hear it. So John ends up on a high bridge with Catherine trying to talk him down. In two series full of phenomenal two-handers this is perhaps the best one ever. There’s so much here, from Catherine realising John has the suicide intervention training she lacks (“What should I be saying to you?”), to his macabre words when recalling how he violated Vicky’s corpse: “ridiculous” is the word he reaches for to describe what he did with the broken bottle, before he corrects it to “hideous”. Catherine acts as if she’s also forgotten the severity of the case – when it’s all over and she brusquely outlines to Mike exactly what John did and exactly how much sympathy she has, we see what an act it was. It’s a deadly, gripping game of bluff that Catherine loses when she asks John if he has children, fatally undermining his effort to deny the consequences of his actions. “I love my kids,” he says, before letting himself topple – with a wry, apologetic half-smile, an appropriate ending for a story that has played from the start as the darkest farce. “Yet another everyday story of country folk” But that’s not a suitably Catherine-focused ending, so we return to her and Tommy Lee Royce. In another blast of off-screen verbosity, Alison – recovering in hospital and visited by a concerned Catherine – has revealed that she was raped by her father. Daryl was her half-brother as well as her son and was, Catherine says, an “aberration” who was always going to turn out bad. Daryl was, Catherine thinks, the thing Frances told her nobody can be: born evil. She ponders this as she stares at Ryan – whose letter has by now arrived in his father’s hands, in prison – running happily through a field. Roll credits. I wasn’t sure about this. It fits with the underlying theme of a main character who deals with other people’s traumas, but cannot escape the defining trauma of her own life. Now I realise that Happy Valley is downbeat. But this was so pessimistic – Ryan’s so young! Tommy’s not coming out of prison any time soon! Catherine can do this! – that it felt a bit lurid. I half-expected Ryan to turn and smile for the camera like Damien at the end of The Omen. Does it matter? Not terribly. This series was too good for one scene to alter the fact that Happy Valley was almost always on its game this year. And when Happy Valley is at its best, nothing can touch it. Whither the Knezovices? The “Halifax mafia” have gone from crucial cliffhanger material to one cursory mention in the final two weeks. Left open for series three, or just a loose end flapping in the bitter Rippenden breeze? How’s about that, then? Weeks after the BBC finally released a report into its handling of Jimmy Savile, he gets a terrifically uncompromising namecheck in one of the Corporation’s own most acclaimed and saleable dramas – listed by Catherine alongside Peter Sutcliffe, Ian Brady or “some other sad, twisted fuck”. Justifiable of course, but still … bold. If you don’t laugh, you’ll cry How typical of Happy Valley to inject more comedy into this episode than any other. Catherine almost breaking the fourth wall to describe the scene at Alison’s farm: “It was like Piccadilly Circus when I left ... more detectives than primetime TV.” The constable who helped pursue John first forgetting to apply the handbrake, then tripping over as he lagged behind Catherine. Even the casting of comic actor Steve Edge in the minor, straight role of Graham. All of it reinforced that laughter is never too far away, even in the most awful times. Hey, that’s life.
