=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murder of Janak Patel - Wikipedia]
On 23 November 2022, a dairy worker named Janak Patel was murdered during a robbery at the Rose Cottage Superette in Sandringham, Auckland, New Zealand. Police subsequently arrested three men in connection with the robbery and killing. [1] The killing of Patel attracted significant attention from domestic media and political figures including Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, Police Minister ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Janak_Patel

[Man pleads guilty to murder of Auckland dairy worker Janak Patel - 1News]
Mar 13, 2024 · Frederick Gilbert Hobson, 35, admitted in the Auckland High Court today to the killing and aggravated robbery. (Source: 1News) A man has pleaded guilty to murder for his role in the killing of dairy worker Janak Patel. Patel, 34, was attacked outside the pink-painted Rose Cottage Superette in the Auckland suburb of Sandringham on November 23, 2022.
URL: https://www.1news.co.nz/2024/03/13/man-pleads-guilty-to-murder-of-auckland-dairy-worker-janak-patel/

[Murder of Janak Patel explained]
On 23 November 2022, a dairy worker named Janak Patel was murdered during a robbery at the Rose Cottage Superette in Sandringham, Auckland, New Zealand. Police subsequently arrested three men in connection with the robbery and killing. [1] The killing of Patel attracted significant attention from domestic media and political figures including Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, Police Minister ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Murder_of_Janak_Patel/

[Auckland dairy worker Janak Patel's last moments outlined in court ...]
Mar 12, 2024 — ... Flowers outside the Rose Cottage Superette in Sandringham where Janak Patel was stabbed to death during a robbery in November 2022.
URL: https://www.nzherald.co.nz/nz/crime/auckland-dairy-worker-janak-patels-last-moments-outlined-in-court-documents-as-frederick-hobson-pleads-guilty-to-murder/PULEEYZYXBAZPLPEDNM5JFNF6Q/

[Prime Minister and Ethnic Communities Minister attended Janak Patel ...]
Nov 23, 2022 · Janak Patel was murdered on 23 November 2022 (Photo: FaceBook) Thousands gathered at South Auckland’s Ann’s Funeral Home to pay their respects to Janak Patel, the slain dairy worker. Patel was a victim of an aggravated robbery and murder outside his Rose Cottage Superette in Sandringham on Wednesday, 23 November 2022. Patel was stabbed multiple times by a man who allegedly took the till ...
URL: https://indiannewslink.co.nz/thousands-gather-to-pay-respects-to-the-slain-janak-patel/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murder of Janak Patel - Wikipedia] ---
On 23 November 2022, a dairy worker named Janak Patel was murdered during a robbery at the Rose Cottage Superette in Sandringham, Auckland, New Zealand. Police subsequently arrested three men in connection with the robbery and killing. The killing of Patel attracted significant attention from domestic media and political figures including Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, Police Minister Chris Hipkins, and ACT Party leader David Seymour against the backdrop of an alleged recent crime wave targeting dairies and other retailers across New Zealand.
In March 2024, one of the defendants Frederick Hobson pleaded guilty to murder and aggravated robbery. In late June, Hobson was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum non-parole period of 15 years for murder while a second defendant Shane Tane was sentenced to four years and six months imprisonment for aggravated robbery. The third defendant Henry Ford was granted a stay in proceedings due to his terminal illness.


--- [Man pleads guilty to murder of Auckland dairy worker Janak Patel - 1News] ---
A man has pleaded guilty to murder for his role in the killing of dairy worker Janak Patel. Patel, 34, was attacked outside the pink-painted Rose Cottage Superette in the Auckland suburb of Sandringham on November 23, 2022. He died soon afterwards. The case caused nationwide outrage at a time of intense attention on retail crime. Frederick Gilbert Hobson, 35, pleaded guilty to murder and aggravated robbery at Auckland High Court this morning. He is set to be sentenced on June 26. Hobson had previously denied the charges. His two co-defendants, both also charged with murder, are set to face trial in May.


--- [Murder of Janak Patel explained] ---
No content


--- [Auckland dairy worker Janak Patel's last moments outlined in court ...] ---
Having been just given a new position of trust - a potential step up the ladder in his dream of someday running his own business - Auckland dairy manager Janak Patel decided not to back down one night when a man with a black bandana rushed into his employer’s Auckland dairy worker Janak Patel’s last moments outlined in court documents as Frederick Hobson pleads guilty to murder Subscribe to listen “Mr Hobson ran behind the counter of the superette, forcing his way through two closed wooden panels, and approached the cash register,” court documents state, explaining that the victim’s wife was at the front of the store at that point and rushed to the back room in retreat. “Mr Patel then stepped out and was confronted... by Mr Hobson holding the knife towards him in his right hand, causing Mr Patel to retreat back into the room where he came from.” In addition to picking up the entire cash register, Hobson appeared to grab whatever items were in his immediate vicinity, including butane lighters and vapes, before leaving the store. “Mr Hobson turned left down Haverstock Road and walked in a calm and casual manner towards Duncan Ave,” according to the agreed summary of facts for the case. “Mr Patel retrieved a hockey stick from the back of the store and ran after Mr Hobson.” About 150 metres from the dairy, Hobson transferred the cash register to inside a recycling wheelie bin that had been left on the kerb before continuing to walk away with the bin in tow. But when he heard the shopkeeper approaching, he put the bin to one side, pulled his bandana back over his face and picked up a large tree branch. “Mr Hobson ... then turned around and aggressively advanced towards Mr Patel holding a sharp knife and the tree branch in his right hand,” court documents state. “Mr Patel retreated away from Mr Hobson then advanced towards Mr Hobson, shouting and swinging the hockey stick with force at Mr Hobson on three occasions, causing Mr Hobson to retreat to avoid being hit by the hockey stick, which created distance between the pair. “Mr Hobson waited for Mr Patel to swing the hockey stick again, dropped the tree branch, and lunged towards Mr Patel with the knife, pushing him on to the ground on his back.” While the dairy worker was in a vulnerable position on the ground, Hobson knelt over him and held him down with his left hand while stabbing him several times in quick succession with his right. Despite the injuries, Patel continued to fight back, managing to get back to his feet as he wrestled Hobson for the hockey stick. As both men held onto the item, Hobson stabbed Patel three more times. “The final blow was to Mr Patel’s neck, causing him to fall to the ground once again,” court documents state. “At this point, Mr Patel moved around the wheelie bin in an attempt to get away from Mr Hobson. “Mr Hobson approached Mr Patel once more and attempted to stab him a further time. Mr Patel managed to break free of Mr Hobson’s grasp and ran back towards the Rose Cottage Superette before collapsing after taking five steps.” Hobson then turned around, collected the wheelie bin again “and continued walking casually” away from the scene. Hobson left in a vehicle a short time later, while Patel tried to stumble his way back to the business. He collapsed en route and bled to death a short time later. Of his six stab wounds, one to his chest and another to his back would have been “rapidly fatal”, a post-mortem exam found. Hobson was arrested several days after the incident following a major manhunt. He is set to be sentenced in June. Two others were also taken into custody in the days following Hobson’s arrest, initially charged only with robbery of the same dairy. Both men were later charged as parties to murder, meaning they’re alleged to have aided or encouraged Hobson. They have pleaded not guilty and await trial later this year. Patel’s death sparked nationwide anguish and outrage. Hundreds attended vigils and small business owners temporarily shut their doors across the country in an organised protest to highlight what has been perceived as the growing danger of operating a dairy in New Zealand. His funeral was attended by then-Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and MP Mark Mitchell, who currently serves as Police Minister under National’s coalition Government. The anger hasn’t abated. In the wake of today’s guilty plea, the Dairy and Business Association released statistics suggesting that violent acts against retailers had increased 20 per cent in 2023 and are up 121 per cent since 2015. On average, about seven retailers and retail workers were assaulted per day last year, the group said. Association chairman Sunny Kaushal described the murder as “callous and despicable” but also part of a disturbing trend that politicians have yet to fix. “New Zealand is becoming a more violent society,” he said. “That is the national discussion we must start having.” Craig Kapitan is an Auckland-based journalist covering courts and justice. He joined the Herald in 2021 and has reported on courts since 2002 in three newsrooms in the US and New Zealand.


--- [Prime Minister and Ethnic Communities Minister attended Janak Patel ...] ---
Thousands gathered at South Auckland’s Ann’s Funeral Home to pay their respects to Janak Patel, the slain dairy worker. Patel was a victim of an aggravated robbery and murder outside his Rose Cottage Superette in Sandringham on Wednesday, 23 November 2022. Patel was stabbed multiple times by a man who allegedly took the till from his dairy. Patel’s death has caused frustration, deep sorrow, and fear in the community, which is pushing for the government to take decisive action to address the spike in crimes in New Zealand. Criticisms of the government The Prime Minister on Saturday, 26 November 2022 met with the press at the Auckland Central District Police Headquarters shortly after meeting with the Sandringham Business Association representatives. She fielded questions on why she had not visited the Rose Cottage Superette and why she had not met with the family of the deceased. However, National Leader, Christopher Luxon paid a visit to the dairy and left a flower arrangement earlier on, on 26 November 2022. In the press conference, the Prime Minister stated that any additional work on tackling the problem of crimes will coalesce efforts of the government, municipalities, and insurers. When Indian Newslink asked why a tragedy had to function as a catalyst for a more substantive conversation about crime prevention and safety, the Prime Minister defended her government record on crime and reiterated that their punitive measures have not been lessened but acknowledged that additional tools could be employed to address the spike in crime. Both leaders were present at his funeral which was held on 27 November 2022. Nationwide Protest today It was reported that, according to Sunny Kaushal, president of the Dairy and Business Owners Group, a nationwide protest is planned for today as a mark of respect and protest. Dairies and small businesses in New Zealand will be closed for at least two hours from 12.30 pm to 2.30 pm. A vigil will be held in front of Jacinda Ardern’s electoral office in Mt Albert, Auckland, as well as Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson’s electoral office in Wellington. Others are also asked to gather outside their MP’s office. Two men charged. A 34-year-old man has been charged with aggravated robbery and murder and another 42-year-old charged with robbery. The climate of fear for businesses. Indian Newslink spoke to a few businesses and there is generally fear and anxiety among business owners. One business owner said that “my legs tremble every time I get into my shop”. Another shop owner said that “we have been talking about the need for heightened measures of security for years and nothing has been done yet.” He added that” don’t make this a political issue, we just want solutions.” Another business owner from another constituency spoke about how she has had four ram raids in a month. “Yes, we do have insurance but the frequency of what has happened makes my company a high-risk business which means my insurance premiums get increased. But more than the money, it is the trauma and fear of the safety of ourselves and our workers that is at stake,” she explained. The store owner also spoke about how she had decided to invest her own resources and build bollards outside her store but had to wait two months for the council to give approval. Interestingly, all three business owners were not aware of the Retail Crime Prevention Programme Funds and all three had requested anonymity which is very telling of the climate of fear under which they operate in. Retail Crime Prevention Programme Funds The Proceeds of Crime Fund has committed $6 million to develop the Retail Crime Prevention Programme, which is supervised by Police. However, retailers cannot self-refer to the Program. The Police are tasked to finds suitable retailers through an assessment process. One shop owner commented “the Police should be out fighting crime; this is not their job. I am sure we can outsource the administrative works which should also connect business owners with vendors supplying safety gadgets,” Currently, Police are selecting eligible businesses by statistical analysis of recent ram raid-style burglaries and ensuring they are small businesses, and this will be followed up with a phone and on-site evaluation. More information on the Retail Crime Prevention Programme can be found on the Police website. Businesses urge proper information dissemination. One shopkeeper who spoke with Indian Newslink urged that immediate action be taken to make preventative education mandatory for businesses: education on what preventative measures should be taken to keep the business environment safe, as well as what each employer and owner should do if a robbery occurs on their property. “All employers and employees should be trained on safety precautions like not confronting the attacker and not even making eye contact, but instead stepping aside or crouching in a corner,” said a business owner of a retail company in Sandringham. “We should be educated on how we can safeguard our premises. There should be more posters, compulsory courses and videos circulated to the community,” she added. The New Zealand Police website has prevention resources in the form of videos, booklets, and partner vendors’ information that offer tips and prevention tools. Tips include installing a range of complementary prevention tools and using posters to advertise prevention measures installed in the premises to deter offenders. Malini Yugendran is an Indian Newslink correspondent based in Acukland.
