=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Siri - Wikipedia]
In September 2015, the "Hey Siri" feature was updated to include individualized voice recognition, a presumed effort to prevent non-owner activation. [58][59] With the announcement of iOS 10 in June 2016, Apple opened up limited third-party developer access to Siri through a dedicated application programming interface (API).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siri

[26 Facts About Siri | FactSnippet]
10. In September 2015, the "Hey Siri" feature was updated to include individualized voice recognition, a presumed effort to prevent non-owner activation.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-siri.html

[Siri - Intelligent personal assistant]
In September 2015, the "Hey Siri" feature was updated to include individualized voice recognition, a presumed effort to prevent non-owner activation. ... month ...
URL: https://technolopedia.fandom.com/wiki/Siri

[What is Siri? | Definition from TechTarget]
Jun 14, 2024 · Apple introduced the "Hey Siri" feature in September 2014, which allows users to activate the personal assistant by saying the command without needing to press a button on the device. The following year, Apple updated the feature to individualize the voice recognition component, which prevented users that do not own the device from accessing Siri.
URL: https://www.techtarget.com/searchmobilecomputing/definition/Siri

[CASE STUDY - Speech Recognition | PDF | Siri | Ios]
... year ... • In September 2015, the "Hey Siri" feature was updated to include personalized voice recognition, a presumed effort to prevent activation by a non-owner ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/617465827/CASE-STUDY-Speech-Recognition


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Siri - Wikipedia] ---
Siri (  SEER-ee) is a virtual assistant and chatbot purchased, developed, and popularized by Apple, which is included in the iOS, iPadOS, watchOS, macOS, Apple TV, audioOS, and visionOS operating systems. It uses voice queries, gesture based control, focus-tracking and a natural-language user interface to answer questions, make recommendations, and perform actions by delegating requests to a set of Internet services. With continued use, it adapts to users' individual language usages, searches, and preferences, returning individualized results.
Siri is a spin-off from a project developed by the SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center. Its speech recognition engine was provided by Nuance Communications, and it uses advanced machine learning technologies to function. Its original American, British, and Australian voice actors recorded their respective voices around 2005, unaware of the recordings' eventual usage. Siri was released as an app for iOS in February 2010. Two months later, Apple acquired it and integrated it into the iPhone 4s at its release on 4 October 2011, removing the separate app from the iOS App Store. Siri has since been an integral part of Apple's products, having been adapted into other hardware devices including newer iPhone models, iPad, iPod Touch, Mac, AirPods, Apple TV, HomePod, and Apple Vision Pro.
Siri supports a wide range of user commands, including performing phone actions, checking basic information, scheduling events and reminders, handling device settings, searching the Internet, navigating areas, finding information on entertainment, and being able to engage with iOS-integrated apps. With the release of iOS 10, in 2016, Apple opened up limited third-party access to Siri, including third-party messaging apps, as well as payments, ride-sharing, and Internet calling apps. With the release of iOS 11, Apple updated Siri's voice and added support for follow-up questions, language translation, and additional third-party actions.
iOS 17 and iPadOS 17 enabled users to activate Siri by simply saying "Siri", while the previous command, "Hey Siri", is still supported. 
In 2024, Apple added initial large-language-model functionality to Siri in iOS 18, iPadOS 18, and macOS Sequoia, including ChatGPT integration. In 2025, Apple announced that a broader overhaul of Siri based on Apple Intelligence, intended to enable increased personalization, would be delayed due to technical challenges. In 2026, they released MacOS Tahoe, which also came with Siri support.


--- [26 Facts About Siri | FactSnippet] ---
Siri is a spin-off from a project developed by the SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center. | FactSnippet No. 420,430 | Siri is a spin-off from a project developed by the SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center. | FactSnippet No. 420,430 | In 2016 and 2017, a number of media reports said that Siri lacked innovation, particularly against new competing voice assistants. | FactSnippet No. 420,432 | Siri is a spin-out from the SRI International Artificial Intelligence Center, and is an offshoot of the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency's-funded CALO project. | FactSnippet No. 420,433 | Kittlaus named Siri after a co-worker in Norway; the name is a short form of the name Sigrid, from Old Norse Sigriðr, composed of the elements sigr "victory" and friðr "beautiful". | FactSnippet No. 420,434 | Siri was acquired by Apple Inc in April 2010 under the direction of Steve Jobs. | FactSnippet No. 420,435 | Original American voice of Siri was recorded in July 2005 by Susan Bennett, who was unaware it would eventually be used for the voice assistant. | FactSnippet No. 420,436 | Siri acknowledged that the voice work was done "five or six years ago", and that he didn't know how the recordings would be used. | FactSnippet No. 420,437 | Siri released as a stand-alone application for the iOS operating system in February 2010, and at the time, the developers were intending to release Siri for Android and BlackBerry devices. | FactSnippet No. 420,438 | In September 2015, the "Hey Siri" feature was updated to include individualized voice recognition, a presumed effort to prevent non-owner activation. | FactSnippet No. 420,439 | In iOS 11, Siri is able to handle follow-up questions, supports language translation, and opens up to more third-party actions, including task management. | FactSnippet No. 420,441 | Siri received mixed reviews during its beta release as an integrated part of iPhone 4S in October 2011. | FactSnippet No. 420,442 | MG Siegler of TechCrunch wrote that Siri was "great, " praising the potential for Siri after losing the beta tag:. | FactSnippet No. 420,443 | Jacqui Cheng of Ars Technica wrote that Apple's claims of what Siri could do were bold, and the early demos "even bolder":. | FactSnippet No. 420,444 | Google's executive chairman and former chief, Eric Schmidt, conceded that Siri could pose a competitive threat to the company's core search business. | FactSnippet No. 420,446 | Siri was criticized by pro-abortion rights organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union and NARAL Pro-Choice America, after users found that Siri could not provide information about the location of birth control or abortion providers nearby, sometimes directing users to crisis pregnancy centers instead. | FactSnippet No. 420,447 | In January 2016, Fast Company reported that, in then-recent months, Siri had begun to confuse the word "abortion" with "adoption", citing "health experts" who stated that the situation had "gotten worse. | FactSnippet No. 420,448 | Siri has not been well received by some English speakers with distinctive accents, including Scottish and Americans from Boston or the South. | FactSnippet No. 420,449 | In March 2012, Frank M Fazio filed a class action lawsuit against Apple on behalf of the people who bought iPhone 4S and felt misled about the capabilities of Siri, alleging its failing to function as depicted in Apple's Siri commercials. | FactSnippet No. 420,450 | And, on too many occasions, Siri either gets things wrong, doesn't know the answer, or can't verbalize it. | FactSnippet No. 420,451 | In June 2017, The Wall Street Journal published an extensive report on the lack of innovation with Siri following competitors' advancement in the field of voice assistants. | FactSnippet No. 420,452 | Siri argued that, even though Apple has apologized, it has never faced the consequences for its years-long grading program. | FactSnippet No. 420,453 | Therefore, if Siri can be triggered into cursing, broadcasting discriminatory content, and so on, the actions will most likely be carried out. | FactSnippet No. 420,454 |


--- [Siri - Intelligent personal assistant] ---
No content


--- [What is Siri? | Definition from TechTarget] ---
Siri What is Siri? Siri is Apple's virtual assistant for iOS, macOS, tvOS and watchOS devices that uses voice recognition and is powered by artificial intelligence (AI). Siri responds to users' spoken questions by speaking back to them through the device's speaker and presenting relevant information on the home screen from certain apps, such as Web Search or Calendar. The service also lets users dictate emails and text messages, reads received emails and messages and performs a variety of other tasks. History and development Siri derived from a combination of multiple sources, projects and technologies. The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) funded the Cognitive Assistant that Learns and Organizes (CALO) project, aiming to develop a personal assistant with machine learning technologies. SRI International, a nonprofit research institute based in Menlo Park, Calif., took the technologies and framework that the CALO project developed to begin the spin-off project that would eventually lead to Siri's creation. Nuance Communications, a software company based in Burlington, Mass. that began as a spin-off of SRI International, provided the speech recognition technology that made Siri possible. Members of the SRI International team decided to form a new startup company called Siri, Inc. in 2007. SRI researchers Dag Kittlaus and Adam Cheyer served as CEO and vice president of engineering, respectively, while Tom Gruber served as CTO. In 2010, Apple acquired Siri, Inc., which then led to the current incarnation of Siri as a native feature on some iOS devices. The service debuted on the iPhone 4S in 2011; in June 2012, Apple announced it would add Siri to the third-generation iPad with the release of iOS 6 and integrate Siri with third-party apps. Siri is not available on earlier versions of the iPhone or iPad. In June 2016, Apple debuted Siri on macOS Sierra, providing another point of access for Siri. In June 2017, Apple announced its HomePod device, which is controlled by Siri. In June 2024, Apple announced a significant overhaul of Siri at the WWDC 2024 conference: Apple Intelligence, a new personal AI system that enhances Siri's capabilities. Voice of Siri ScanSoft, a software company that merged with Nuance Communications in 2005, hired voiceover artist Susan Bennett that same year when the scheduled artist was absent. Bennett recorded four hours of her voice each day for a month in a home recording studio, and the sentences and phrases were linked together to create Siri's voice. Until a friend emailed her in 2011, Bennett wasn't aware that she had become the voice of Siri. Although Apple never acknowledged that Bennett was the original Siri voice, audio experts at CNN confirmed it. Karen Jacobsen, a voiceover artist known for her work on GPS systems, provided the original Australian female voice. Jon Biggs, a former tech journalist, provided Siri's British male voice. Apple developed a new female voice for iOS 11 with deep learning technology by recording hours of speech from hundreds of candidates. Important features and popular commands Siri can perform a variety of tasks, such as: - Navigate directions, including "What's the traffic like on my way to work?" - Schedule events and reminders, such as "Text Ben 'happy birthday' at midnight on Tuesday" - Search the web, including "Find images of dogs" - Relay information such as "How long does it take water to boil?" - Change settings such as "Increase the screen brightness" or "Take a photo" Users can make requests to Siri in natural language. Apple introduced the "Hey Siri" feature in September 2014, which allows users to activate the personal assistant by saying the command without needing to press a button on the device. The following year, Apple updated the feature to individualize the voice recognition component, which prevented users that do not own the device from accessing Siri. Siri in iOS 11 can perform tasks such as translate languages and handle follow-up questions. Apple also opened up third-party access to expand Siri's functions to task management. With the introduction of Apple Intelligence in 2024 comes a series of updates that provide a new look and new functionality to Siri users. Among the Siri updates are the following: - Visual makeover. With iOS 18 and Apple Intelligence Siri gets a new icon, as a well as glowing light that wraps around the edge of the screen when active. - Conversational context. Siri can maintain context from one request to the next, allowing for more natural interactions. - Typing to Siri. Users will have the ability to type their queries to Siri and switch between text and voice as needed. - In-app actions. Siri can perform more complex tasks within apps, such as editing photos or managing contacts based on on-screen information. - On-screen awareness. Siri can take actions in or across apps, such as extracting text from photos and filling it into web forms. - Text summaries and email writing suggestions. Siri provides text summaries and email writing suggestions powered by Apple Intelligence. How it works Siri's functions live primarily in the cloud, including the main automatic speech recognition and natural language interpretation. A small speech recognizer, however, runs constantly on the local device, listening for the words "Hey Siri." When the speech recognizer detects the phrase, it uses a deep neural network to convert the acoustic pattern of the user's voice into a probability distribution. Then, the "Hey Siri" detector integrates the continuous stream of information from that pattern into separate events to calculate a confidence score that the phrase was indeed "Hey Siri." Siri activates if the score is high enough. When the user speaks a command or request, Siri collects the audio, converts it into a data file and sends it to Apple's servers. The device must be connected to the internet for Siri to function. Once the voice data is in the servers, it goes through a variety of flowcharts formed by a large database of questions and answers. If the flowchart fails to answer the question, Siri rejects the query and responds with the standard phrase: "Would you like to search the web for that?" If the query follows the flowchart successfully, Siri communicates with other apps to perform the function. For example, if the user asks "What are some Thai restaurants near me?" then Siri uses Yelp's database of nearby restaurants to deliver that information to the user. With the addition of Apple Intelligence, Siri will also be able to call out to ChatGPT to get information and answers for users. Criticism Users with strong accents may not be compatible with Siri's voice recognition software. Also, some experts claim that the service often doesn't understand user questions, cannot answer them or delivers useless answers. Those issues are what the Siri update with Apple Intelligence might help to solve. Siri has also faced competition from Amazon, Microsoft and Google with Alexa, Cortana and Assistant, respectively. In the past, experts complained that Siri lacks innovation in comparison to other personal assistants. The addition of Apple Intelligence might change that perception over time.


--- [CASE STUDY - Speech Recognition | PDF | Siri | Ios] ---
Case Study on Siri's Speech Recognition The document is a case study on speech recognition that is submitted for a master's program. It contains contributions from multiple authors and is divided into several sections including an introduction to speech recognition, techniques used in speech recognition, the history of speech recognition, applications of speech recognition, different speech recognition software, an overview of Siri, features of Siri, use of Siri, and the working of Siri. Case Study on Siri's Speech Recognition
