=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Clyde Pinelands FC | Established in 1898, the oldest club in South Africa ...]
The club plays its football through the Cape Town Tygerberg Football Association (CTTFA) which is affiliated to the South African Football Association. Clyde Pinelands provides football opportunity for all age groups, from the Veterans down to the U7's and toddlers including women's teams. Our facilities are also available for hire.
URL: https://clydepinelandsfc.wordpress.com/

[Western Cape Football Clubs - Clyde Pinelands - Pinelands, Cape Town ...]
Established in 1898, the oldest club in South Africa, providing football, opportunity and facilities to all. Clyde Pinelands Association Football Club (est.
URL: https://community-services.blaauwberg.net/sport-clubs/football-soccer-clubs-western-cape/clyde-pinelands-football-club

[Recreation in Pinelands Part 1]
The Clyde Pinelands Football Club applied to move in 1964 from Observatory to Julianaveld and was accepted as a Pinelands sporting club. It is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa, having been formed in 1898 by "Daddy" McCloud in Observatory who had been a member of the Clyde FC in Scotland.
URL: https://pinelandshistory.co.za/recreation-in-pinelands-part-1/

[Clyde Pinelands Association Football Club (CPAFC) | Social Club | Cape Town]
More about Clyde Pinelands Association Football Club (CPAFC) Established in 1898, the oldest club in South Africa, Clyde is dedicated to providing amateur football opportunity and facilities to both senior and junior players, coaches and administrators along with supporting the community with events outside of football.
URL: https://za.top10place.com/clyde-pinelands-association-football-club-cpafc-1378591390.html

[About | Clyde Pinelands FC - WordPress.com]
May 24, 2022 — When Cape Town City FC was formed in 1961, four members of Clyde were drafted into that team that was at the time, owned by Western Province.
URL: https://clydepinelandsfc.wordpress.com/about-2/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Clyde Pinelands FC | Established in 1898, the oldest club in South Africa ...] ---
Monday, 4th April 2025 – This site is not particularly up to date for which we apologise. For an up to date on our 2024 fixtures, click here. Our Facebook page is a pretty good alternative link, as the season progresses – click here Clyde Pinelands Association Football Club (est. 1898) can be found nestled at the foothills of Lions Head and the backdrop of Table Mountain in the lovely garden city suburb of Pinelands in Cape Town, South Africa. The club plays its football through the Cape Town Tygerberg Football Association (CTTFA) which is affiliated to the South African Football Association. Clyde Pinelands provides football opportunity for all age groups, from the Veterans down to the U7’s and toddlers including women’s teams. Our facilities are also available for hire. You are most welcome to visit the revamped clubhouse and newly laid fields and also more than welcome to join up as either a playing or non-playing member of the club. Ph: 0767 007 690 Spencer Courtis | email: spencer@tbnpartner.co.za This website is sponsored by Spencer Courtis of webswillwork – click here For a website like this for your entity, you may contact Spencer on: C: 0767 007 690 email: spencer@tbnpartner.co.za


--- [Western Cape Football Clubs - Clyde Pinelands - Pinelands, Cape Town ...] ---
Clyde Pinelands Football Club | Area: | Pinelands, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa | | Physical Address: | 207 Ringwood Drive, Pinelands, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa | | Phone: | +27 (0)76 700 7690 | | Cell: | +27 (0)76 700 7690 | | After Hours Number: | +27 (0)76 700 7690 | | Contact Person: | Spencer Courtis | | GPS Co-Ordinates: | -33.946163, 18.506790 | | Email: | | | Web: | clydepinelandsfc.wordpress.com/ | | Info: Western Cape Football Clubs - Clyde Pinelands - Pinelands, Cape Town, Western Cape, South Africa Established in 1898, the oldest club in South Africa, providing football, opportunity and facilities to all. | | If there are any errors in the above information, please notify us via an email to info@westerncapecommunity.co.za | |


--- [Recreation in Pinelands Part 1] ---
The first sports club in Pinelands was the Pinelands Lawn Tennis Club which met for the first time in the home of Mr Brooks in October 1923. The first two courts had already been built next to the Police Camp. The third and fourth courts followed in 1924 and 1925. The practice wall built in 1927 still stands today. In 1937 the clubhouse was built and opened by Mr. Rose-Innes. In 1956 the Club with other sporting bodies explored the possibility of a central social club but a number of setbacks occurred, and the idea was abandoned. In 1959 the club turned down a proposal to move to a proposed Howard Centre recreational area, and instead installed all-weather courts on all 6 courts followed by flood lights in 1965. A further 2 courts were added. The idea of a Cricket Club was first discussed in 1926 and in 1934 the first meeting of the club was held. The members started work on the site of the disused brickfields ,slowly creating a cricket field. The clubhouse was erected in 1935 and the turf laid the following year. In 1948 the club was able to widen the field and build a cinder athletic track with the Pinelands Athletics club, renaming the area Pinelands Oval. A new Pavilion was built in 1961. In 1982 the club merged with the Pinelands hockey Club and created two hockey fields and in the process grassing over the athletic track. Pinelands had three Bowling Clubs. The first was the Pinelands Bowling Club which was established in 1927 under the guidance of Whitford Griffith. The first green was formally opened in 1929 and the clubhouse was built in 1930. This clubhouse was replaced in 1950. A second green was established in 1939 and a third in 1965. In 1955 a meeting held at the Pinelands Bowling clubhouse led to the Howard Bowling Club being established at the Howard Place Sporting Centre. The clubhouse was opened in 1957. However, by 2011 membership had dropped and the club entered into discussions with the Pinelands Bowling Club. The amalgamation took place in 2012. Also part of the amalgamation was the Pinewood Bowling club established originally as part of the Old Mutual sports facilities as the land was to be developed for affordable housing. Many uses were put forward for the Howard club land including shops, seven a side rugby, a community garden and Municipal offices. It is currently used by the municipality as offices. A Pistol Club was started in 1935 after a spate of burglaries including the Pinelands Bus Service driver being held up at gunpoint one night. Members were permitted to use the Police Camp next to the tennis courts for target practice The hockey club was established in 1937 by Sydney Sides. Garden Cities donated and prepared land on Steengroef Road as well as making one hundred pounds available for a pavilion. The pavilion was extended by the inclusion of a tea kiosk in 1957. The clubhouse burnt down in 1982 and in the same year the Hockey Club amalgamated with the Cricket Club to form the Pinelands Sport Club. To accommodate the Hockey Club, two hockey fields were constructed at the oval. The Pinelands Athletics Club was also established in 1937 when 21 residents met in a school hall and agreed to forming track and field club. Practises took place at 6 am on the Oval. In 1939 the Club successfully raised funds for a track to be laid around the Cricket field. The close co-operation with the Cricket Club was further cemented when the Athletics club made a donation towards the new cricket clubhouse in 1962. Over the years the club had outstanding successes with members not only becoming provincial and national champions but also being awarded Springbok colours. However, by the early 1970 the membership dropped to the point where an amalgamation with Celtic Harries was considered. However soon the membership started to go from strength to strength. In 1976 the club resolved to extend an invitation to all communities in Cape Town to join the club, which further strengthened membership. The growing interest in road running in the 80s also helped swell membership. A new track was established on the lower oval and a clubhouse was built in 1987. The Pinelands Amateur Boxing Clubwas formed in 1960 by Marcus Temple and soon won seven of the eleven interschool titles. The 50 members were trained by Marcus and three boxers from Maitland, all of whom had provincial titles. Training took place in the Pinelands Primary School Hall. The Clyde Pinelands Football Club applied to move in 1964 from Observatory to Julianaveld and was accepted as a Pinelands sporting club. It is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa, having been formed in 1898 by “Daddy” McCloud in Observatory who had been a member of the Clyde FC in Scotland. The club had to wait until 1973 before moving to its home at the end of Ringwood Drive on the old Pinelands dump site. Originally Ringwood Drive was to cross the site to link up with Links Drive. Over the years players have been selected for the national team and in the heyday of Cape Town City, a number of Clyde players were in their team. Other players have gone on to join professional clubs in Europe. From time to time many other sports clubs have been established for sports such as badminton, bridge, jukskei, croquet, chess, baseball (at Clyde Pinelands) and archery (behind the High School).


--- [Clyde Pinelands Association Football Club (CPAFC) | Social Club | Cape Town] ---
No content


--- [About | Clyde Pinelands FC - WordPress.com] ---
24 May 2022 – (NOTE) This website site is not particularly up to date. However, please check the date against any posts in terms of its relevancy. Clyde Pinelands Associated Football Club (CPAFC) is the oldest non-amalgamated football club in South Africa having been formed in 1898, making us 121 years old to date. According to our records, our club was formed by a Scotsman named Daddy McCloud who was a member of either Clyde FC or Clydebank FC in Scotland. Since the birth of our club, our colours have remained maroon and white with a touch of gold. The club has managed to win every amateur title that there is in the Western Province as well as the National Club Championships – twice in the 1970’s! We have made it to the quarter finals of the South African equivalent of the “FA Cup” on two occasions. We currently have an ex-member in the South African National team and have produced numerous international players including the likes of Stewart Leary. When Cape Town City FC was formed in 1961, four members of Clyde were drafted into that team that was at the time, owned by Western Province. Cape Town City FC, under the prolific management of Englishman Frank Lord, went on to becoming one of the most dominant teams in South Africa, winning every national title available. Many of our members have gone on to play pro football in Europe for clubs such as Stoke City, SV Hamburg, Benfica and in the 1950’s we were an “unofficial feeder“ team for Charlton Athletic with no less than three Clyde boys playing for them at one time. We also supplied New York Cosmos with their first coach, Eddie Firmani who coached the likes of Pele, Johan Cruyff, Jomo Sono and Franz Beckenbaur while there. We also supplied the Captain for the SA Universities team that toured South America in the 1970’s playing 9 games, winning them all without conceding a goal. Household names like Gary France, Glen Jordons, Edwin Sauls, Clive Daries, Mike Brown, Alan Welsh, Rory Farrell, The Rosslee brothers, Sandy Alan, Colin Gie, Donald Gie, Barry Thomas, Mornay Pillay, the four Bywater brothers but to name a few, have all donned the Clyde colours over the years. As it is expected, the club went through a number of transitions crossing the racial lines on many occasions for the love of the game. At present the club serves all socio economic groups, all racial facets and both genders. We have put the love of soccer above colour, wealth and neighbourhood and we will continue to do so for eternity.
