=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Inauguration of South Korea's New President Park Geun-hye]
Feb 26, 2013 · On February 25, 2013, Park Geun-hye was sworn in as the 11th president of South Korea. She is the country’s first female president and also first elected female head of state in East Asia after she won a historic election in December 2012 with 51.6 percent of popular votes.
URL: https://www.csis.org/analysis/inauguration-south-koreas-new-president-park-geun-hye

[Park Geun-hye (1st Female President of South Korea)]
Biography: Park was the first female President of South Korea, and also the first women to be popularly-elected head of state in East Asia. Notably, her father, Park Chung-hee, had also been President of South Korea (1963-1979)—though his presidency began with the 1961 military coup d'état.
URL: https://www.onthisday.com/people/park-geun-hye

[Park Geun-hye]
A member of then Saenuri Party and the eldest daughter of the third president, Park Chung Hee, she was the first woman in the country and the first in East Asia ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Park_Geun-hye

[Taiwan Inaugurates First Female President : The Two-Way : NPR]
May 20, 2016 · Taiwan inaugurated its first female president Friday — who is also, as The Associated Press notes, "the first woman elected as head of state in Asia not related to a prominent male politician ...
URL: https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2016/05/20/478813167/taiwan-inaugurates-first-female-president

[Tsai Ing-wen Elected President of Taiwan, First Woman to Hold Office ...]
Jan 16, 2016 · TAIPEI, Taiwan — Tsai Ing-wen was elected Taiwan ’s president on Saturday, becoming the first woman to win the office. Voters gave her Democratic Progressive Party, which is skeptical of ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/17/world/asia/taiwan-elections.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Inauguration of South Korea's New President Park Geun-hye] ---
Inauguration of South Korea’s New President Park Geun-hye On February 25, 2013, Park Geun-hye was sworn in as the 11th president of South Korea. She is the country’s first female president and also first elected female head of state in East Asia after she won a historic election in December 2012 with 51.6 percent of popular votes. Upon her inauguration as president, she returned to the Blue House after 33 years, a place she had once lived as the first daughter (and also first lady) of the country when her father Park Chung-hee ruled South Korea as president from 1961 to 1979. In her inauguration speech, President Park pledged to usher South Korea into an era of hope. She vowed the revival of the domestic economy with a dual focus on “creative economy” and “economic democratization,” and proclaimed to work to achieve the “happiness” of South Korean citizens by establishing a fair society and sound welfare system. She also highlighted the spreading and flourishing of Korean culture as one of the mandates she will work to achieve over the course of her administration. The Park administration takes office amid heightened tensions on the Korean peninsula with North Korea’s third nuclear test on February 12, 2013. The government reorganization plan and confirmation of cabinet appointments are also still held up in the National Assembly, which will give the Park government a slightly bumpy start. Q1: How will President Park deal with North Korea? A1: President Park is arguably the determinative player on future policy directions among six-party members in the aftermath of the North's third nuclear test. As negotiations play out in the UN Security Council on a resolution condemning the tests last week and this week, most of the parties, including the United States and Japan, are in standby mode (for Washington, this is called "strategic patience"), waiting to see what President Park will want to do next on North Korea. During her campaign, Park focused on two aspects of policy: 1)” trustpolitik” by building a relationship with North Korea based on trust, and 2) humanitarian assistance in that Seoul was not averse to providing basic fertilizer and food assistance to help the North Korean people. Despite these positive-sounding tones, Park made clear in her inauguration speech that she would not tolerate North Korean threats to her nation. We do not believe that she will start a version of "sunshine policy 2.0" but instead will be cautious in her approach. She may have little choice in the matter as CSIS Korea Chair’s research finds that North Korea has made a provocation within weeks of every South Korean presidential inauguration since 1992—so fasten your seat belts. Q2: What about bilateral relations with Japan and China? A2: President Park seeks improved relations with Korea's two key neighbors but there are challenges in each case. Regarding China, Park's "trustpolitik" was manifest in her transition team sending its first special envoy to Beijing on January 22, headed by Kim Moo-sung, the Saenuri Party's election campaign manager and former lawmaker. The Chinese historically have had a great deal of respect for Park Chung-hee's model of economic development, and they feel a sense of kinship with the Chinese-speaking new president of the country. Bilateral trade was $220.6 billion in 2011 and China's is Korea's top trading partner. Indeed, negotiating a free trade agreement with China will be a priority during her term. But Beijing's continued support of North Korea will remain a short- and long-term challenge for relations with Seoul. Look for her reaction to UN Security Council negotiations, and how much foot-dragging China is seen to engage in to shield its communist ally from additional sanctions. On Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe stated at CSIS last Friday that South Korea is Japan’s most important neighbor in spite of the continued controversies over historical issues and territorial disputes over islands. He evoked memories of his grandfather’s, former premier Nobosuke Kishi, close ties with President Park's father and the common threats faced by North Korea. Some of this may fall on deaf ears in Seoul as lately tolerance for Japanese off-color historical remarks is at an all-time low. Nevertheless, the new South Korean president understands the importance of strong U.S.-Japan-ROK ties and at a personal level has affinity for Japan. There is also a sense in Seoul that Abe will "behave" on historical and territorial issues until the Upper House elections this summer. In the interim, the Park government's reaction to the next time bomb in bilateral relations—revisions of history textbooks— later next month will be an indicator of the direction in relations. Q3: What are the key issues for President Park in relations with President Obama? A3: Park takes office in a historic year for U.S.-ROK relations as 2013 marks the 60th anniversary of the alliance (October 1, 1953) as well as that of the armistice that ended the Korean War (July 27, 1953). During her tenure, the United States and South Korea are scheduled to transfer wartime operational command of ROK forces back to the South Koreans in 2015. The two militaries are also expected to complete major progress with the base realignment agreement that effectively moves U.S. facilities and forces away from Seoul and further south to consolidated base facilities at Pyongtaek and Osan. While Seoul eyes a free trade agreement with China, the Obama administration will also be looking to Park to seriously consider joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade talks. The most immediate issue, however, is the renegotiation of the U.S.-ROK civil nuclear agreement. Look for the intensity of these talks to heat up in the next quarter. The parties have until summer 2013 at the latest to find a solution to this difficult negotiation, or otherwise be perceived as failing on a critical element of alliance cooperation. Q4: What is the near-term outlook for her domestic economic policy? A4: In the face of economic headwinds from abroad, sluggish domestic growth with increasing household debt, and a weak employment market, economic rejuvenation will be a major focus of the new government but it is no easy task. Park’s reorganization plan proposes to centralize economic policy planning, her new economic paradigm highlights a creative economy, and her sweeping campaign promises range from new jobs to fair support for small and medium-sized enterprises. With her plan still waiting for approval, some of the president’s domestic economic agenda will be in limbo until the plan, and related appointments, are given the go-ahead. Going forward, the president’s proposed Ministry of Future Planning and Science, if approved, will play a key role in her new paradigm to meld science, technology, and the IT industries. Democratizing the economy will also be a goal met more in the medium- to long-term as this is not a straightforward undertaking. No specifics have yet been spelled out regarding chaebol policy but Park has pledged to be tougher on business corruption. As her cabinet forms, a more detailed domestic economic blueprint should begin to take shape. Victor Cha holds the Korea Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) in Washington, D.C. Ellen Kim is assistant director of the Korea Chair at CSIS, where she is also a fellow. Marie DuMond is a research associate with the Korea Chair at CSIS. Critical Questions is produced by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a private, tax-exempt institution focusing on international public policy issues. Its research is nonpartisan and nonproprietary. CSIS does not take specific policy positions. Accordingly, all views, positions, and conclusions expressed in this publication should be understood to be solely those of the author(s). © 2013 by the Center for Strategic and International Studies. All rights reserved.


--- [Park Geun-hye (1st Female President of South Korea)] ---
Profession: 1st Female President of South Korea Biography: Park was the first female President of South Korea, and also the first women to be popularly-elected head of state in East Asia. Notably, her father, Park Chung-hee, had also been President of South Korea (1963–1979)—though his presidency began with the 1961 military coup d'état. She ran into trouble in 2016 after the National Assembly impeached her in relation to her top aide's alleged influence peddling. Park was removed from office by unanimous ruling of the Constitutional Court in 2017—making her the first Korean president to be removed by impeachment. Subsequently she was sentenced to 24 years in prison, with her now residing in the Seoul Detention Center. Born: February 2, 1952 Birthplace: Jung-gu, Taegu, South Korea Age: 74 years old Generation: Baby Boomer Chinese Zodiac: Dragon Star Sign: Aquarius Historical Events - 2012-12-19 Park Geun-hye wins the South Korean presidential election to become the nation’s first female president - 2016-11-20 South Korean President Park Geun-hye's controversial friend Choi Soon-sil charged with abuse of authority and coercion amid calls to also impeach the President - 2016-12-09 South Korean MPs vote to impeach President Park Geun-hye - 2017-03-10 South Korean judges uphold parliaments' decision to impeach President Park Geun-hye - 2017-03-30 Ex-South Korean president Park Geun-hye arrested in corruption investigation - 2017-05-09 Moon Jae-in elected President of South Korea after a snap election to replace Park Geun-hye


--- [Park Geun-hye] ---
Park Geun-hye (; Korean: 박근혜 [pak‿k͈ɯn.hje] ; born 2 February 1952) is a South Korean politician who served as the 11th president of South Korea from 2013 until her removal from office in 2017. A member of then Saenuri Party and the eldest daughter of the third president, Park Chung Hee, she was the first woman in the country and the first in East Asia to be elected as head of state. Park previously served as the first lady of South Korea under her father's presidency from 1974 until her father's assassination in 1979.
Born in Daegu, Park graduated from Sogang University in 1974 with a bachelor's degree in electronic engineering. Before her presidency, Park was leader of the conservative Grand National Party (GNP) from 2004 to 2006 and leader of the Liberty Korea Party from 2011 to 2012. She was also a member of the National Assembly, serving four consecutive parliamentary terms between 1998 and 2012. Park started her fifth term as a representative elected via national list in June 2012. In 2013 and 2014, Park ranked 11th on the Forbes list of the world's 100 most powerful women and the most powerful woman in East Asia. In 2014, she ranked 46th on the Forbes list of the world's most powerful people, the third-highest South Korean on the list, after Lee Kun-hee and Lee Jae-yong.
 On 9 December 2016, Park was impeached by the National Assembly on charges related to influence peddling by her top aide, Choi Soon-sil. Then–Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn assumed her powers and duties as acting president as a result. The Constitutional Court upheld the impeachment by a unanimous 8–0 ruling on 10 March 2017, thereby removing Park from office, making her the first Korean president to be so removed. On 6 April 2018, South Korean courts sentenced her to 24 years in prison (later increased to 25 years) for corruption and abuse of power.
In 2018, two separate criminal cases resulted in an increase of seven years in Park's prison sentence. She was found guilty of illegally taking off-the-books funds from the National Intelligence Service (NIS) and given a five-year prison sentence, and also found guilty of illegally interfering in the Saenuri Party primaries in the 2016 South Korean legislative election, for which she was sentenced to two more years in prison. On 24 December 2021, it was announced that she would receive a pardon on compassionate grounds from South Korean President Moon Jae-in. She was released from prison on 31 December and returned home three months later on 24 March 2022.


--- [Taiwan Inaugurates First Female President : The Two-Way : NPR] ---
Taiwan Inaugurates First Female President Taiwan inaugurated its first female president Friday — who is also, as The Associated Press notes, "the first woman elected as head of state in Asia not related to a prominent male politician." As we reported after Taiwan's elections in January, Tsai Ing-wen faces a delicate balancing act. The self-governing island of Taiwan functions like an independent country, but China regards it as a rogue province. Tsai's party has previously called for formal independence from China. Beijing has threatened war in response to any claim of independence, and hinted at a possible economic backlash to smaller policy shifts away from China. (Taiwan is highly dependent on trade with the mainland). Many Taiwanese are comfortable with the current situation, NPR's Anthony Kuhn has reported, and uninterested in openly provoking China. That doesn't mean there's support for unification: the last president lost power because voters thought he was "too chummy with Beijing," Anthony says. "So Tsai and her party have moved to the center," Anthony says. She's signaled that she would largely focus on domestic issues. Beijing, skeptical of Tsai, wants her to publicly acknowledge the "one-China" policy. In her inauguration speech, she entirely avoided references to the issue, the AP reports: "Tsai said in her speech that she respected the 'joint acknowledgements and understandings' reached between the sides at a landmark 1992 meeting seen by China as underpinning all subsequent contacts and agreements. "However, Tsai made no explicit mention of the concept that Taiwan is a part of China. Beijing claims the self-governing island as its own territory and says failing to endorse the one-China principle would destabilize relations." In more subtle ways, her inauguration ceremony de-emphasized ties with China, Anthony reported on Morning Edition: "Performances at the inauguration celebrated a Taiwanese identity distinct and separate from that of China. Aboriginal children sang the national anthem. "Actors played the part of students fighting for democracy against the former dictatorship of the long-ruling Nationalist government." Tsai's speech praised Taiwanese democracy and spoke of addressing economic and judicial issues. After the inauguration, China responded with a statement reiterating demands for unification. "Today, our determination to protect national sovereignty and territorial integrity is unshaken, our capability is strengthened and we will resolutely contain any 'Taiwan independence' separatist acts or plots in whatever form they take," Beijing said, according to the AP. The U.S. officially recognizes China's policy, Anthony reports, while quietly cooperating with Taiwan's military.


--- [Tsai Ing-wen Elected President of Taiwan, First Woman to Hold Office ...] ---
Supported by Tsai Ing-wen Elected President of Taiwan, First Woman to Hold Office TAIPEI, Taiwan — Tsai Ing-wen was elected Taiwan’s president on Saturday, becoming the first woman to win the office. Voters gave her Democratic Progressive Party, which is skeptical of closer ties with China, control of Taiwan’s legislature for the first time, giving her broad authority to enact her policies in office. “The results today tell me the people want to see a government that is willing to listen to people, that is more transparent and accountable and a government that is more capable of leading us past our current challenges and taking care of those in need,” she said in a news conference outside her party’s headquarters. Her main opponent, Eric Chu of the governing party, Kuomintang, conceded just after 7 p.m. “I congratulate Chairman Tsai Ing-wen of the Democratic Progressive Party on her victory,” he said. “This is the choice of Taiwan’s people.” With 99 percent of the polling places reporting results, Ms. Tsai had 56 percent of the vote to Mr. Chu’s 31 percent, Taiwan’s Central Election Commission said. The campaign pivoted largely on economic issues, as growth in Taiwan has slowed significantly over the past year. Wages have stagnated and housing prices in major cities like Taipei have remained out of the reach of many people. Related Content Advertisement
