=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hannibal (TV Series 2013-2015) - Awards - IMDb]
Hannibal (TV Series 2013–2015) - Awards, nominations, and wins. ... 2016 Nominee Critics' Choice TV Award. Best Actor in a Drama Series.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2243973/awards/

[Hannibal (TV series)]
The third and final season won the inaugural Best Action-Thriller Television Series award, while guest star Richard Armitage won Best Supporting Actor. ... series ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hannibal_(TV_series)

[All the awards and nominations of Hannibal (TV Series)]
Best Guest Star in a Television Series (Michael Pitt) 40th Saturn Awards 2013 (Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films) winner Best Network Television Series winner Best Genre TV Actor (Mads Mikkelsen) nom.
URL: https://www.filmaffinity.com/us/movie-awards.php?movie-id=891160

[Awards - Hannibal - Kinorium]
All prizes, awards and film festivals of the TV show. (2013-2015)
URL: https://en.kinorium.com/637955/awards/

[12 Shows That Were Overlooked by the Emmys]
Jul 15, 2016 — The 2016 Emmy nominations are in, but here are some amazing shows that never managed to catch the Emmy love they deserved.
URL: https://www.ign.com/articles/2016/07/15/12-shows-that-were-overlooked-by-the-emmys


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hannibal (TV Series 2013-2015) - Awards - IMDb] ---
27 wins & 59 nominations - 2016 Winner Saturn Award - Best Action/Thriller Television Series - 2016 Nominee Primetime Emmy - Outstanding Special Visual Effects in a Supporting Role - Robert Crowther (vfx supervisor) - Anthony Paterson (vfx producer) - Tom Plaskett (vfx coordinator) - Jay Stanners (compositor) - Rob Tasker (compositor) - Terence Krueger (3D Artist) - John Coldrick (3D Supervisor) For episode "Primavera" - 2015 Nominee Satellite Award - Best Television Series, Drama - 2014 Nominee TV Guide Award - Favorite Horror Series - 2015 Nominee Young Artist Award - Best Performance in a TV Series - Guest Starring Young Actor 10 and Under - 2016 Nominee Chainsaw Award - Best TV Series - 2015 Winner IGN Award - Best TV Horror Series - 2015 Winner IGN People's Choice Award - Best TV Horror Series - 2015 Winner IGN People's Choice Award - Best TV Villain - Richard Armitage (actor) For playing "Francis Dolarhyde" - 2016 Nominee OFTA Television Award - Best Visual Effects in a Series - 2013 Nominee OFTA Television Award - Best New Theme Song in a Series - 2013 Nominee OFTA Television Award - Best New Titles Sequence - 2014 Nominee INOCA TV - Program of the Year - 2014 Nominee INOCA TV - Best Drama Series - 2014 Nominee Joey Award - Young Actor Age 16-19 in a TV Series Drama or Comedy Guest Starring or Principal Role - 2014 Nominee Joey Award - Young Actor Age 11 or Younger in a TV Series Drama or Comedy Guest Starring or Principal Role Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [Hannibal (TV series)] ---
Hannibal is an American psychological horror-thriller television series developed by Bryan Fuller for NBC. The series is based on characters and elements appearing in Thomas Harris' novels Red Dragon (1981), Hannibal (1999), and Hannibal Rising (2006) and focuses on the relationship between Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) special investigator Will Graham (Hugh Dancy) and Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Mads Mikkelsen), a forensic psychiatrist destined to become Graham's most cunning enemy and, at the same time, the only person who can understand him.
The series received a 13-episode order for its first season. David Slade executive produced and directed the first episode. The series premiered on NBC on April 4, 2013. In May 2014, NBC renewed Hannibal for a third season, which premiered on June 4, 2015. On June 22, 2015, NBC canceled Hannibal after three seasons because of low viewership. The series finale aired in Canada on City, on August 27, 2015, and aired two days later in the U.S. on NBC.
The series received critical acclaim, with the performances of the lead actors and the visual style of the show being singled out for praise. The first two seasons each won the Saturn Awards for Best Network Television Series, while both Mikkelsen and Dancy won Best Actor, with Laurence Fishburne winning Best Supporting Actor for season two. The third and final season won the inaugural Best Action-Thriller Television Series award, while guest star Richard Armitage won Best Supporting Actor. The show has garnered a cult following and is considered by critics and audiences as one of the best series of the horror genre, and one of the greatest network TV series of all time.


--- [All the awards and nominations of Hannibal (TV Series)] ---
Full awards and nominations of Hannibal (TV Series) 2013 Bryan Fuller (Creator), Michael Rymer ... 7.4 14,469 TV Series. Mystery. Thriller. Drama TV Series (2013-2015). 3 Seasons. 39 Episodes. Will Graham is a gifted criminal profiler who is on the hunt for a serial killer with the FBI. Graham's unique way of thinking gives him the astonishing ability to empathize with anyone - even psychopaths. He seems to know what makes them tick. But when the mind of the twisted killer he's pursuing is too complicated for even Will to comprehend, he enlists the help of Dr. Lecter, one of the ... [+] winner winner nom.


--- [Awards - Hannibal - Kinorium] ---
Hannibal Cancelled 2013 — 2015 Awards and Nominations Emmy Awards Nominations: 1 - Outstanding Special Visual Effects in a Supporting Role 2016 Saturn Awards Winner: 7 / 16 - Best DVD/Blu-Ray Television Release — The Complete Series Collection 2017 - Best Action/Thriller Television Series 2016 - Best Supporting Actor on Television: Richard Armitage 2016 - Best Actor on Television: Hugh Dancy 2015 - Best Network Television Series 2015 - Best Supporting Actor on Television: Laurence Fishburne 2015 - Best Actor on Television: Mads Mikkelsen 2014 Nominations: 9 / 16 - Best Actor on Television: Mads Mikkelsen 2015, 2016 - Best DVD/Blu-Ray Television Release 2015, 2016 - Best Supporting Actress on Television: Gillian Anderson 2016 - Best Guest Performance in a Television Series 2014, 2015 - Best Supporting Actress on Television: Caroline Dhavernas 2015 - Best Actor on Television: Hugh Dancy 2014


--- [12 Shows That Were Overlooked by the Emmys] ---
Battlestar Galactica Hailed as one of the best sci-fi shows of all time -- certainly one of the most mature and thought-provoking -- Ron Moore's 2004 reboot of Battlestar Galactica got the extreme cold shoulder from the Emmys, never once getting recognized for the stellar performances from its stars or the dark, relevant themes of its storylines. Despite getting a few tech Emmy nominations here and there -- for visual effects, sound, costumes, etc -- BSG illustrated how setting your show in deep space, no matter how good it is, sadly is a likely way to turn away both traditional TV viewers and those nominating the major categories in the Emmys. Buffy the Vampire Slayer The iconic episode "Hush" may have been nominated for Best Writing for a Drama in 2002, but Joss Whedon's "high school girl battles monsters" series was never going to get the credit it deserved from the Emmys. Collecting a lot of hair and makeup nominations over the years, Buffy the Vampire Slayer wasn't really appreciated by the Emmys for delivering some of TV's most powerful stories, and biggest laughs, while helping elevate the "dramedy." Many of the shows you watch today have taken several notable cues from the Sunnydale Scooby Gang dynamic, from "Big Bads" to witty dialogue to powerful heroines and more. The Wire Now here was a series that, on paper, felt like an Emmy shoe-in. It had cops, criminals, lawyers, politicians, and all the basic elements that usually catch the attention of voters. But The Wire was way more than just a crime series, it was a visual novel - layered, complicated, and with stories that shifted, season to season, into a different arenas of Baltimore's struggling cityscape. Ultimately, though recognized as one of the best series of all time, it represented too deep a dive for most viewers and the show only garnered a couple writing noms over its five seasons. The Leftovers This one bums us out a bunch since The Leftovers was IGN's Best TV Series of 2015, but getting a series nomination, or performance nominations for leads Justin Theroux and Carrie Coon (or Season 2 player Regina King) were a long shot at best, no matter how exceptional and beautiful the show became in its second season. The Leftovers feels completely unique and unusual on the TV landscape, which is also probably the reason the show gets overlooked. Justified Justified wasn't set in the Old West, but its quirky modern Western nature and overall Elmore Leonard-style casualness kept it half off the Emmy Award radar. Both Margo Martingale and Jeremy Davies did nab Best Guest Actor Emmys while stars Timothy Olyphant and Walton Goggins were nominated for their roles as feuding frenemies, but the show itself and the excellent writing were never nominated, despite providing some amazing Appalachian grit and drama. The Shield Star Michael Chiklis' 2002 Emmy win (along with first-season nominations for writing and directing) helped put both The Shield and FX as a creator of original content on the map. A handful of acting nominations would follow over the years -- Chiklis again, CCH Pounder, Glenn Close -- but the series would never win again nor ever be nominated for Best Drama, despite it being an instant classic that helped launch the televisual era of the anti-hero while redefining the rules of what a modern day cop drama could be. Many are still bitter about The Shield's final season getting snubbed, as it's widely regarded as one of the best close-outs for a show ever. Perhaps the series pushed the envelope a little too much for voters' usual tastes.Hannibal, Outlander and more shows overlooked by the Emmys on Page 2... Sons of Anarchy Sons of Anarchy was a huge hit for FX and while not every season was a standout, the fact that it was annually ignored by the Emmys in all major acting, writing, and directing categories is now part of its legacy. Such was the pattern that eventually caused creator Kurt Sutter to lash out several times against the organization with some heartfelt expletive-laced rants over the years. Like SAMCRO itself, the series existed outside the parameters of refined society, playing by its own rules. Outlander Fairly new to the scene, only two seasons in now, STARZ's Outlander -- from Battlestar Galactica's Ron Moore -- has proven to provide a consistent avalanche of emotion and drama, grounding its time travel story in some really dark and haunting territory. With its second season having just ended, this great show still has yet to receive recognition for its formidable leads, Caitriona Balfe and Sam Heughan, or even its resident villain Tobias Menzies. It's a tragedy befitting - well - Outlander itself. Freaks and Geeks Judd Apatow and Paul Feig's fantastic Freak and Geeks only lasted one season, but what a wildfire it started. A darkly comedic, and astute, portrayal of high school life in the early '80s, the series was practically designed from the ground up to be a critical darling and a cult hit as the Emmys aren't exactly the place that honor the young, no matter how affective and soul-crushing the drama. When the dust settled, the series had earned Feig a few nominations for writing, but the biggest win here was watching most everyone in the cast, and behind the scenes, shuffle off to have crazy-successful careers. Hannibal Hmmm, what could have made the Emmys shy away from Hannibal, Bryan Fuller's ferociously artful gore-fest? Could it have been the guy inside the horse? Or the baby inside the pig? Or the brutal and brilliant bloodbath that was the Season 2 finale? The list here for why uptight, older voters may have punishingly passed over this show is quite lengthy, despite the fact that it was one of the best TV offerings in recent years, with one of the most engaging and unique love stories ever told. But hey - Hannibal did just get an Emmy nom in a category called "Outstanding Special Visual effects In A Supporting Role." So that's...something. Penny Dreadful We've got some more art horror for you here with Showtime's Penny Dreadful - a series that was far too good for just being about Dracula, Dr. Frankenstein, the Wolfman, and other famous literary creatures of the Victorian Era. Consistently poetic and moving, Penny Dreadful's ace in the hole was Eva Green's fearless and bare performance as the oft-possessed Vanessa Ives. It was a performance so good that, for three seasons, fans lived in hope that the Emmys would catch notice and overlook their usual prejudice against genre TV. Like fellow monster mash series Buffy though, Penny did manage to pick up some tech nominations for prosthetic makeup and music. Person of Interest It doesn't seem as though Person of Interest was on many Emmy wishlists, but we hope, with time, people will look back on this extraordinary show and wonder why more people weren't paying attention to it, Emmy voters included. Starting off as what felt like a straight-forward CBS procedural -- albeit a unique one -- the series evolved over its five seasons into a fantastic serialized "five minutes from now" sci-fi saga showcasing both the benefits and dangers of artificial intelligence. And some of the episodes were so perfectly written and directed that it seems a shame that POI was never able to sneak into any of the major categories. Michael Emerson's performance alone was worth the price of admission, and could have easily won him his third Emmy following his performance on Lost. Matt Fowler is a writer for IGN and a member of the Television Critics Association (TCA). Follow him on Twitter at @TheMattFowler and Facebook at Facebook.com/Showrenity.
