=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mississippi River facts: Length, width, depth, headwaters and more]
You'll find the Mississippi at its narrowest point at its headwaters in Lake Itasca, where it's between 20 and 30 feet. The river's widest point is only about 50 miles east, at Lake ...
URL: https://www.twincities.com/mississippi-river/facts/

[Mississippi River Headwaters - Minnesota DNR]
About the Mississippi River headwaters The mighty Mississippi River begins its winding journey to the Gulf of Mexico as a mere 18-foot wide knee-deep river in Itasca State Park. From here the river flows north to Bemidji, where it turns east, and then south near Grand Rapids. It will flow a total of 694 miles before working its way out of Minnesota. Within the park, people enjoy walking or ...
URL: https://www.dnr.state.mn.us/state_parks/itasca/headwaters.html

[10 important facts about Mississippi River: how long, tributaries, map]
Nov 30, 2023 · The Mississippi River begins as a small, knee-deep river flowing out of Lake Itasca in northwestern Minnesota. At just 18 feet wide, it's easy to walk across.
URL: https://www.jsonline.com/story/news/2023/11/30/what-to-know-about-mississippi-river-including-how-deep-long/71733236007/

[How Deep.Is The Mississippi River - Aboutriver.com]
Dec 29, 2023 · At its source Lake Itasca, the Mississippi is a mere feet (0.3 m) deep – a shallow depth that allows waders to easily traverse it. As the river moves downstream, however, it quickly deepens.
URL: https://www.aboutriver.com/how-deep-is-the-mississippi-river/

[How Deep Is The Mississippi River? - A-Z Animals]
Jul 18, 2023 · The headwaters of the Mississippi River begins in Lake Itasca in Minnesota, which is around 200 miles NE of the Twin Cities. At this point, the river begins as a small 20-30 foot wide river (your average living room is 16 x 20 feet).
URL: https://a-z-animals.com/blog/how-deep-is-the-mississippi-river/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mississippi River facts: Length, width, depth, headwaters and more] ---
Facts to know about the Mississippi River Wondering how long the Mississippi River is? Or how much water flows through the river? How about where it is the widest? Take a look at these facts and make yourself a river expert in no time. Beginning of the Mississippi The Mississippi begins at Minnesota’s Lake Itasca. Visitors there can see the headwaters and cross the river on foot, where it is only about 18 inches deep. Can’t make the trip? You can see the headwaters in real time thanks to a Department of Natural Resources webcam. Length of the Mississippi While there are different numbers depending on the source, the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area lists the length of the Mississippi as 2,350 miles. It’s the second-longest river in North America, beaten only by the Missouri River. Width of the Mississippi You’ll find the Mississippi at its narrowest point at its headwaters in Lake Itasca, where it’s between 20 and 30 feet. The river’s widest point is only about 50 miles east, at Lake Winnibigoshish, where it’s wider than 11 miles. The widest navigatable spot in the river’s shipping channel is about 2 miles — in Lake Pepin, on the border of Minnesota and Wisconsin. Where the Mississippi ends All that water has to go somewhere. It eventually finds its way to the coast of Louisiana, where it empties into the Gulf of Mexico. Along the way, it passes through the cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minn.; Dubuque, Iowa; St. Louis, Mo.; Memphis, Tenn.; and Baton Rouge and New Orleans, La. What kinds of fish are in the Mississippi? There are at least 260 species of fish in the Mississippi, according to the National Park Service. That’s 25 percent of all fish species in North America. Those fishing in the river could pull out northern pike, walleye, long-nosed gar, flathead and channel catfish, lake and shovelnose sturgeon, paddlefish, Asian carp, and smallmouth and white bass, just to name a few. How much water flows through the Mississippi? The amount of water passing through the river depends on where you are looking. At the headwaters at Lake Itaska, the average flow rate is 6 cubic feet per second. Once you get to Upper St. Anthony Falls in Minneapolis, the average flow rate gets up to 12,000 cubic feet per second. In New Orleans, that rises to 600,000 cubic feet per second. How deep is the Mississippi? While mere inches at the headwaters, the river’s depth drops dramatically once you get close to its mouth. The deepest point, near Algiers Point in New Orleans, is about 200 feet.


--- [Mississippi River Headwaters - Minnesota DNR] ---
The camera has been experiencing condensation problems and may be down. We will be replacing it with a new camera soon! About the Mississippi River headwaters The mighty Mississippi River begins its winding journey to the Gulf of Mexico as a mere 18-foot wide knee-deep river in Itasca State Park. From here the river flows north to Bemidji, where it turns east, and then south near Grand Rapids. It will flow a total of 694 miles before working its way out of Minnesota. Within the park, people enjoy walking or floating on inner tubes the first half mile of the river, which meanders at a slow 1.2 miles per hour during the warm summer months. In the winter, you can still see the water flowing over the rocks, as warmer spring water keeps the area ice free. Taking your picture next to the iconic headwaters post is a must when you visit the park! The historic marker dates back to the 1930s, and indicates the Mississippi River's total mileage at 2,552 miles. Since then the river's course has been shortened and altered by flooding and channeling. Every summer canoeists leave Lake Itasca to begin their river adventures, with hopes of reaching the Gulf of Mexico over 2,318 miles away. Visitors also enjoy wading across the shallow 18-inch deep water, crossing from the east side to the west side, where a rock dam indicates the end of Lake Itasca and the beginning of this mighty river. The river's channel appears much as it did when Henry Rowe Schoolcraft was led to the source by Ojibwe guide Ozawindib in 1832. Water ripples across a sandy gravel bottom through a channel lined with cattails, tamarack trees, and sedge. Wildflowers bloom throughout the summer, including the tiny blossoms of sweet bedstraw, the pinkish-purple clusters of Joe-Pye weed, and the orange trumpet-shaped flowers of Spotted-touch-me-not. A variety of birds such as warblers, kingfishers, and waterfowl can be seen and heard as you follow a wooden boardwalk along the first section of the river.


--- [10 important facts about Mississippi River: how long, tributaries, map] ---
Where does the Mississippi River start, where is it deepest, answers to key questions about one of Wisconsin's most important waterways Wisconsin has one of the world's most important bodies of water right next door. Nope, we're not talking about Lake Michigan, or Lake Superior. We're talking about the Mississippi River. The river runs more than 200 miles along Wisconsin's western border and continues through America's heartland. It provides habitat for hundreds of fish and wildlife species, charts the course of millions of tons of goods exported from the U.S. and has a rich cultural history, featured in many beloved books and songs. It's facing big environmental challenges: nitrate and phosphorus pollution, forest loss, invasive species and prolonged and excessive flooding, to name a few. But it could also provide nature-based solutions to some of those problems, as scientists, politicians and citizens learn more about what can be done to protect it. How much do you know about the Mississippi? You can brush up on the basics here. Where does the Mississippi River start and finish? The Mississippi River begins as a small, knee-deep river flowing out of Lake Itasca in northwestern Minnesota. At just 18 feet wide, it's easy to walk across. It flows hundreds of miles across Minnesota, including through the Twin Cities, before it reaches the Wisconsin border. Then it heads south, running alongside major cities like St. Louis, Memphis and New Orleans. The river ends about 100 miles downstream from New Orleans, where it empties into the Gulf of Mexico. It takes 90 days for a single drop of water to travel from the headwaters to the Gulf. Mississippi River tributaries: Where does the Wisconsin River connect to the Mississippi? The Wisconsin River — the state's longest river — meets the Mississippi near Prairie du Chien. Wyalusing State Park provides a view of the rivers' meeting point. There are other, bigger rivers, known as tributaries, that flow into the Mississippi and add to its volume. Those include the Illinois, Missouri, Ohio, Arkansas and Red rivers. Mississippi River map: How big is the Mississippi River basin? The Mississippi River basin drains more than 40% of the continental U.S. In other words, any drop of rain or snow that falls across a large part of the country ends up in the Mississippi. It includes 31 states — some fully and some partially — and two Canadian provinces. Most of the precipitation in the state of Wisconsin ends up in the Mississippi River. About 60% of Wisconsin residents live in the river basin. The rest of the state drains to Lakes Michigan or Superior. Because water travels over so much land before it reaches the Mississippi River, land use is an important determinant of the river's health. Industry and agriculture have both played a role in polluting the river, resulting in what's known as the Dead Zone in the Gulf of Mexico — a massive area where nutrient pollution chokes off oxygen for fish and plants. Is the Mississippi River the longest river in the United States? No. The Mississippi River flows about 2,350 miles, according to the National Park Service. The Missouri River flows about 100 miles longer, making it America's longest river. The Missouri River stretches from the Rocky Mountains in southwest Montana to St. Louis, where it meets the Mississippi. Both rivers' lengths can change slightly as their deltas grow or shrink from sedimentation or erosion. The Mississippi River delta in particular has lost approximately 70% of its land area since 1932 due to coastal erosion, sea level rise and human activities like oil and gas extraction. Is the Mississippi River one of the longest rivers in the world? How does it compare to the Amazon and Nile? Most lists of the world's longest rivers combine the Missouri and the Mississippi, since they join up. By that measure, the river is the fourth-longest in the world, behind the Nile, the Amazon and the Yangtze rivers. By volume, the Mississippi River is the 15th-largest in the world. It discharges close to 600,000 cubic feet of water per second into the Gulf of Mexico, according to the National Park Service. Where is the Mississippi River deepest? The river's deepest point is near Algiers Point in New Orleans, measuring about 200 feet deep. That's a far cry from its depth at the headwaters, which is about 18 inches, according to the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. Do people drink from the Mississippi River? Yes. The river provides drinking water for almost 20 million people in more than 50 municipalities, according to the environmental advocacy group American Rivers. People who live in the Twin Cities and surrounding suburbs, for example, get their drinking water from the Mississippi. What cargo does it transport? Is the Mississippi River drying out? The Mississippi River is a major player in worldwide shipping and commerce. It carries around 500 million short tons per year of goods, including corn, soy, fertilizer, road salt, coal and petroleum products. More than 90% of the nation's agricultural exports are grown in the Mississippi River basin; 60% of all grain exported from the U.S. is shipped on the river. Periods of drought or flooding — which are expected to get more frequent as the climate changes — can stall shipping on the river. For example, near-record low water levels caused by drought caused barges to run aground on the lower Mississippi in fall 2022. Is the Mississippi River important for wildlife? The river ecosystem is vital for a wide variety of birds, fish and other animals. Each year, it provides a place to rest, breed and eat for more than 325 species of migrating birds. The upper Mississippi alone is home to over 119 species of fish, and its surrounding backwaters, wetlands and forests provide habitat for a multitude of other animals as well. These important habitats are threatened by climate change and human activities. For example, prolonged and frequent flooding on the upper Mississippi caused by more precipitation and land use changes in the basin is killing floodplain forests and disturbing habitat for fish. How did the Mississippi River get its name? "Mississippi" comes from the French interpretation of the Ojibwe name for the river. That name was Misi-Ziibi, which means "great river." The river is known by a variety of nicknames too, such as the Father of Waters. Have other questions about the Mississippi River? Email Madeline Heim at mheim@gannett.com. Heim is a Report for America corps reporter who writes about environmental issues in the Mississippi River watershed and across Wisconsin. Please consider supporting journalism that informs our democracy with a tax-deductible gift to this reporting effort at jsonline.com/RFA or by check made out to The GroundTruth Project with subject line Report for America Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Campaign. Address: The GroundTruth Project, Lockbox Services, 9450 SW Gemini Dr, PMB 46837, Beaverton, Oregon 97008-7105.


--- [How Deep.Is The Mississippi River - Aboutriver.com] ---
No content


--- [How Deep Is The Mississippi River? - A-Z Animals] ---
No content
