=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Who Is Gypsy Rose Blanchard's Ex-Husband? All About Ryan Scott Anderson]
Dec 10, 2024 · Gypsy Rose Blanchard married her now ex-husband, Ryan Scott Anderson, in July 2022 while she was still in prison for the murder of her mother, Dee Dee Blanchard.
URL: https://people.com/who-is-ryan-scott-anderson-gypsy-rose-blanchard-husband-8420408

[What To Know About Gypsy Rose Blanchard's Husband, Ryan Scott ... - TODAY]
Apr 11, 2024 — Blanchard and Anderson tied the knot in 2022, while she was still in prison serving a 10-year sentence for her involvement in the slaying of her mother.
URL: https://www.today.com/popculture/gypsy-rose-blanchard-husband-ryan-scott-anderson-rcna131851

[Meet Gypsy Rose Blanchard's Husband, Ryan Scott Anderson]
Mar 29, 2024 · Ryan and Gypsy Rose got married in July 2022. The couple obtained a marriage license in Chillicothe, Missouri, on June 27, 2022, and on July 21, 2022, the couple tied the knot in the prison with ...
URL: https://www.womenshealthmag.com/life/a46268573/ryan-scott-anderson-gypsy-rose-blanchard-husband/

[Gypsy-Rose Blanchard's relationships and life in prison explained]
Mar 5, 2025 · Who was Gypsy-Rose Blanchard married to? Gypsy-Rose was married to Louisiana teacher Ryan Anderson from July 2022 to December 2024. The pair married in a ceremony held in prison, with no guests in attendance. Gypsy-Rose and Ryan filmed the docu-series ‘Gypsy-Rose: Life After Lock Up’ together amid her release from prison in December 2023.
URL: https://www.nationalworld.com/us/gypsy-rose-blanchard-relationships-married-partner-life-prison-explained-5018476

[Gypsy Rose Blanchard Finalizes Divorce From Ryan Anderson]
Dec 9, 2024 — Gypsy Rose Blanchard has finalized her divorce from Ryan Scott Anderson, who she married in July 2022 while serving a 10-year prison sentence.
URL: https://www.rollingstone.com/culture/culture-news/gypsy-rose-blanchard-finalizes-divorce-1235197960/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Who Is Gypsy Rose Blanchard's Ex-Husband? All About Ryan Scott Anderson] ---
Who Is Gypsy Rose Blanchard's Ex-Husband? All About Ryan Scott Anderson Gypsy Rose Blanchard married Ryan Scott Anderson while in prison. She filed for divorce in April 2024 By Rebecca Aizin Rebecca Aizin Rebecca Aizin is an Associate Editor at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2023. Her work has previously appeared on Elle, HGTV and Backstage. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on December 10, 2024 09:15AM EST Credit : Jamie McCarthy/Getty Gypsy Rose Blanchard married her now ex-husband, Ryan Scott Anderson, in July 2022 while she was still in prison for the murder of her mother, Dee Dee Blanchard. The Prison Confessions of Gypsy Rose Blanchard subject was sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2016 for killing her mother, who made her undergo years of intense medical treatments that she never needed. Blanchard was a victim of Munchausen by proxy, a form of abuse in which a guardian may seek attention or sympathy by making their child ill or exaggerating their illness. Blanchard and her then-boyfriend Nicholas Godejohn conspired together to kill Dee Dee in June 2015, and Blanchard later pleaded guilty to second-degree murder while Godejohn was convicted of first-degree murder. After eight years of serving her sentence, Blanchard was released on Dec. 28, 2023. Where Is Gypsy Rose Blanchard Now? Inside Her Life 12 Months After Prison Release Less than four months later, Blanchard filed for divorce from Anderson. The exes legally parted ways in December 2024. "It was like she was on a leash," Blanchard's close friend Nadiya Vizier told PEOPLE in April 2024. "What's the difference between being locked in a prison cell and feeling locked in her own home and marriage? She didn't want to put up with it anymore." Blanchard has since rekindled her romance with ex-fiancé Ken Urker, with whom she had an off-again-on-again engagement from 2018 to 2022. In July 2024, Blanchard announced she and Urker are expecting their first baby together. Here’s everything to know about Ryan Scott Anderson and his relationship with Gypsy Rose Blanchard. He is from Louisiana Ryan Scott Anderson on his Instagram. Ryan Anderson/Instagram Per Blanchard and Anderson’s marriage license, Anderson is from Lake Charles, Louisiana, where he works as a middle school special education teacher. Following her time in prison, Blanchard planned to move to Louisiana, and Anderson joked that was one of the first reasons she decided to speak to him initially. "She's like, that was probably the main reason is you were from Louisiana and I wanted to make friends with people from Louisiana," he told PEOPLE. "So I credit that as being the most important thing is that I was just from Louisiana." They began communicating after he sent Blanchard a letter Gypsy Rose Blanchard and her husband Ryan Anderson photographed in prison on December 11, 2023. Courtesy Gypsy Rose and Ryan Anderson Anderson and Blanchard first connected in 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic started. Anderson was working at a hospital at the time, and his clientele dropped from around 300 to 12 patients, he said. The Netflix show Tiger King was popular then, and his co-worker told him she wanted to write a letter to the Tiger King subject Joseph "Joe Exotic" Maldonado-Passage. He told her that if she wrote him, he would write Blanchard. "I said, 'I'll tell you what, if you write him, I'll write Gypsy Rose Blanchard.' And I had watched her documentary Mommy Dead and Dearest, like three years before that," he said. "And then The Act had came out and I've never watched The Act, but I remember my friends talking about The Act and I was like, I'll watch the documentary again. So it was kind of fresh on my mind." After he sent it, he didn't expect to hear back, but within a few weeks, in May 2020, he had begun a back-and-forth email exchange with Blanchard, who he said was drawn to how personal he was and the sacrifices he had made for his family including helping his mother raise his nephew. He and Blanchard first met a year after they started talking Gypsy Rose Blanchard in the documentary, 'Gypsy's Revenge.'. Investigation Discovery Due to COVID-19 restrictions, Blanchard and Anderson couldn't meet until July 2021. However, Blanchard has called him her "emotional backboard," crediting him for helping keep her calm. "We met in 2020 when the pandemic was really, really strong, and I had a lot of emotional ups and downs because of COVID," she told PEOPLE. "Unfortunately, it put the prison in a position to where it restricted our freedom even more ... So Ryan has seen me through some really good times, some really hard times." She added, "I would say that he is probably the most compassionate soul that I've ever met, and the most patient, God knows, he's so patient with me because I could be a little bit of a lot to handle. I could be a handful, an emotional handful." She added that though a lot of their relationship was long distance and over the phone, Anderson became so in tune with her emotions, he could tell how she was feeling as soon as she picked up. "We've been able to build this emotional bond that within two seconds of talking on the phone, he knows my emotions," she said. "And he'll be like, 'Are you okay? Do you want to talk about it?' So I'm thankful that I have a man that is open enough with his own emotions so I could let my emotions flow." They got married while Blanchard was in prison Gypsy Rose Blanchard and Ryan Scott Anderson celebrate their marriage after she is released from prison. Gypsy-Rose Blanchard-Anderson/Instagram While not much is known about how they met, Blanchard did previously have correspondence with men outside the prison's walls through the a pen pal program. She was previously engaged to a man named Ken in 2019, though they eventually split. Anderson and Blanchard obtained a marriage license in Chillicothe, Missouri, on June 27, 2022, while she was still serving time, per The Springfield News-Leader. A month later, on July 21, 2022, the two tied the knot in a small prison ceremony with no guests. "We do plan on having a reception/redo wedding with all of our family and our friends and the dress and the cake and everything because we deserve that. I deserve that. He deserves that," she told PEOPLE in 2023. "Our prison wedding was just something to where we can make our vows to each other. It was something that meant something to us. And I think the party is kind of for everybody else and us, but mostly for everybody else." Blanchard talked about wanting kids Gypsy Rose Blanchard and Ryan Scott Anderson on Instagram. Gypsy-Rose Blanchard-Anderson/Instagram Ahead of her early prison release, Blanchard told PEOPLE she's excited to have kids one day. Since Blanchard had a fraught relationship with her own mother — and never lived with her father and stepmother — she said people have questioned what kind of mother she'll be, which has hurt her feelings. "Whenever someone says, do you think that because of what you went through, you're going to do that to your kids? And I said, You know what? Absolutely not. I have learned what not to do," she said. Gypsy Rose Blanchard Wants Kids After Release, But Fears 'Hard Conversation' About Mom's Murder (Exclusive) Blanchard pointed to Anderson's mother and her own stepmother as examples of people who are strong maternal figures and whom she plans to model her parenting after. "I have other mother figures that are around in my life, friends that are mothers," she said. "So I have a lot of good people around me to pull advice from when that time comes. I don't think that there's going to be a manual that says you've won mom of the year, but I definitely have no concerns about I think my parenting when it comes to that time." He and Blanchard were anxious about being in the spotlight Gypsy Rose Blanchard/Instagram Ahead of Blanchard's release, Anderson told PEOPLE that he was worried about the attention that would be thrown upon them since he prefers to be more private. “It’s going to be a whirlwind and there’ll be a lot of attention,” Anderson said. “I’m still very nervous about that. I’m a very private person.” However, he added that the two had a plan in store for how to tune out the public and focus on each other. “Now it’s kind of like, ‘Oh, you’re in the public eye now — go out there and experience it,’ ” he said. “But we’ve decided that every night, we’re going to lay in bed, we’re going to talk to each other and check on each other and see how we’re doing, because it is going to be crazy for a minute.” He and Blanchard announced their split in March 2024 Gypsy-Rose Blanchard-Anderson/Instagram The pair called it quits roughly three months after Blanchard was released from Chillicothe Correctional Center in Missouri. "Unfortunately my husband and I are going through a separation and I moved in with my parents," she wrote on Facebook in March 2024. "I have the support of my family and friends to help guide me through this. I am learning to listen to my heart. Right now I need time to let myself find… who I am." Following the announcement, Blanchard was spotted spending time with her ex-fiancé Ken Urker. "For me, it just came out of the blue," Anderson told The Daily Mail in April 2024. "I had no idea she still had such strong feelings for him. I haven't spoken to her, so I don't know what's going on. I'm at a loss. I'm really not doing well at all." On April 8, 2024, Blanchard officially filed for divorce. She later filed a temporary restraining order against Anderson. “It’s heartbreaking because no one gets married to get a divorce. Processing those emotions has been hard," Blanchard told PEOPLE in May 2024. "I did love Ryan." The exes finalized their divorce in December 2024. Anderson, however, did not make an appearance in court. "[He] was aware that the divorce was taking place today," Anderson's attorney Randy J. Fuerst said in a statement to PEOPLE. "He did not seek this divorce but is now glad that this saga in his life is over and he looks forward to a healthy new beginning.” If you suspect child abuse, call the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline at 1-800-4-A-Child or 1-800-422-4453, or go to www.childhelp.org. All calls are toll-free and confidential. The hotline is available 24/7 in more than 170 languages. Close Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Relationships


--- [What To Know About Gypsy Rose Blanchard's Husband, Ryan Scott ... - TODAY] ---
Gypsy Rose Blanchard's relationship with husband Ryan Scott Anderson appears to be on the rocks. Blanchard was photographed holding hands with her ex-fiancé Ken Urker earlier this month, amidst reports that she had separated from Anderson. Raina Williams, Urker's mother, told People the pair had gotten lunch and went to a tattoo shop together, where Blanchard's cousin Bobby Pitre told People the pair got matching tattoos of a Husky, "a symbol of their strong bond," he said. “They are not back together. They’re very cool,” Williams said of her son and Blanchard. “Ken is just being a supportive friend to her and that’s it.” A spokesperson for Lifetime, the network behind Blanchard's docuseries "The Prison Confessions of Gypsy Rose Blanchard," said the network could not confirm if Blanchard or Anderson had filed for divorce. “Gypsy Rose Blanchard has openly shared her life with Lifetime and our cameras from the moment she was paroled. Her story, including her relationship with Ryan, will continue to unfold on 'Gypsy Rose: Life After Lock Up,' debuting this June on Lifetime,” the network said in a statement to TODAY.com on April 9. In "The Prison Confessions of Gypsy Rose Blanchard," Blanchard revealed she was still in contact with Urker in the weeks leading up to her prison wedding with Anderson. Blanchard and Urker got engaged in 2018 after he started writing letters to her in prison, according to E! News, though they split while she was still serving her sentence. Blanchard and Anderson tied the knot in 2022, while she was still in prison serving a 10-year sentence for her involvement in the slaying of her mother, Claudine “Dee Dee” Blanchard, in 2015. Following her early release in December 2023, Blanchard posted about Anderson online and gushed about their marriage. But around March 10, Blanchard disappeared from social media, appearing to delete her public Instagram and X accounts. A couple weeks later, reports about Blanchard splitting from her husband started to circulate. When asked for comment about the reports, Lifetime sent TODAY.com the same statement they sent on April 9. Before deactivating her accounts, the 32-year-old rapidly rose to social media stardom in the days following her early release from prison. She updated her followers on her life in Louisiana with Anderson and shared details about other projects, including a separate Lifetime documentary called "The Prison Confessions of Gypsy Rose Blanchard," which aired in January. The six-part documentary revealed how she met Anderson and gave a glimpse into their prison wedding day in the fifth and sixth episodes. Learn more about how Blanchard and Anderson's relationship began below. How did Gypsy Rose Blanchard and Ryan Scott Anderson meet? Anderson, a 37-year-old sixth grade social studies teacher in Louisiana, said in "The Prison Confessions of Gypsy Rose Blanchard" he first wrote to Blanchard in prison as part of a deal with his friend who was interested in the Netflix show "Tiger King." "'Tiger King' was very popular at the time. And so my friend said, 'Oh, I really want to write tiger king,'" Anderson said of his friend, who was referring to the show's subject Joe Exotic. "And I said, 'OK, well, I'll make a deal with you. You write Tiger King. I'll write Gypsy Rose Blanchard.' And that's what happened." In the documentary, Blanchard recalled what drew her to Anderson's first letter: "The thing that stuck out the most about Ryan's letter is not only how genuine it came across, but also how how funny he is. His sense of humor was great." At the time, Blanchard had another boyfriend, but she said she quickly broke up with him to pursue her relationship with Anderson. The pair continued to write letters to each other for a year and two months before Anderson met Blanchard at the Chillicothe Correctional Center, Anderson said. "I walked into the room and I thought, 'Wow, he's a lot more handsome than in his pictures!' So we had four hours to sit and talk together," Blanchard said. "We had this connection that seemed so seamless, so easy. This is something I never thought that I would have after everything that has happened." How did Ryan Scott Anderson propose to and marry Gypsy Rose Blanchard in prison? Four months after their first visit, Anderson said Blanchard called him and asked where he wanted the relationship to go from there. "She's like, 'After meeting you, I can now say that I have romantic feelings for you,'" Anderson said. "She's like, 'I was a little smitten with you.' That's what she told me. That was her exact quote. So I was like, 'Well, I'm still smitten with you like ever, you know, because I fell in love her long time ago.'" For the pair's third visit, Anderson said he bought an engagement ring and wore it on a necklace to sneak it into the prison, where he asked her to marry him. "He said, 'Gypsy Rose Blanchard, I love you more than anything I've ever loved. And I would be the happiest man in the world if you would be my wife. Will you marry me?' And I said yes. And he put the ring on my finger," Blanchard said. Blanchard and Anderson obtained a marriage license in Chillicothe, Missouri, on June 27, 2022, according to a copy of the license obtained by TODAY.com. Less than a month after obtaining their marriage license, the pair married in a small prison ceremony with no guests on July 21, 2022, the couple said in the documentary. The pair also said they planned to have reception for their friends and family to attend after Blanchard was released from prison. Where are Gypsy Rose Blanchard and Ryan Scott Anderson now? Blanchard was released from prison three years ahead of her original release date after she was granted parole on Dec. 28, 2023, according to the Missouri Department of Corrections. Blanchard said in the documentary she planned to move to Louisiana with Anderson after she was granted parole. Anderson lived with his mother to help raise his nephew, but said he was looking for a residence for just him and Blanchard. "I do believe I am the Prince Charming that Gypsy has been waiting for her whole life," he said. "I really do believe that. When Gypsy gets out, I plan on supporting her and doing what a husband supposed to do to his wife." Blanchard posted sweet selfies with her husband on social media also defended him from those leaving negative comments on his older posts before deleting her accounts. "Ryan, don’t listen to the haters. I love you, and you love me. We do not owe anyone anything. Our family is who matters. If you get likes and good comments great, if you get hate then whatever because THEY DON’T MATTER," she wrote in a comment on Instagram that has since been deleted. "I love you💕 besides they jealous because you are rocking my world every night…yeah I said it, the D is fire🔥 happy wife happy life ❤️." But it appears the two might've hit a rough patch recently. In March, Blanchard deactivated her public social media accounts and apologized for her "lack of accountability" during her first month following her release from prison. She did not comment on her relationship with Anderson during her now-deleted TikTok. On April 6, Anderson posted a video to his social media accounts briefly addressing the speculation. “Hey everybody, I just want to say thank y’all for the support and the nice messages I’ve been getting from people,” he began. He said fans will hear more from him when the Lifetime docuseries “Gypsy Rose: Life After Lock Up” premieres in June. “I’m just living my life, guys,” he continued. “Y’all will see what really happened on Lifetime. We were filming a lot. So stay tuned for that.” He, again, expressed his gratitude for the supportive messages he has received. “If you support me, follow me. I will post more stuff eventually. I’m just hanging in. I just want to say thank y’all to everybody. And God bless,” he concluded.


--- [Meet Gypsy Rose Blanchard's Husband, Ryan Scott Anderson] ---
Gypsy Rose Blanchard is a single woman. Gypsy, 32, announced her separation from husband Ryan Scott Anderson in a private Facebook post obtained by People. “People have been asking what is going on in my life. Unfortunately my husband and I are going through a separation and I moved in with my parents home down the bayou. I have the support of my family and friends to help guide me through this. I am learning to listen to my heart. Right now I need time to let myself find… who I am,” Gypsy wrote. On December 28, 2023, Gypsy was released from prison after serving eight years of her 10-year sentence for her role in the murder of her mother, Dee Dee Blanchard. Gypsy's husband, Ryan Scott Anderson, picked her up from Chillicothe Correctional Center in Missouri, per the couple's exclusive interview with People. Dee Dee suffered from Munchausen syndrome by proxy, also known as factitious disorder imposed on another (FDIA), which is a mental illness in which a caretaker acts as if the person they’re caring for, like a child, has a physical or mental illness, when they don’t, according to the Cleveland Clinic. Dee Dee told Gypsy Rose she was sick with multiple illnesses and subjected Gypsy Rose to many unnecessary medical treatments throughout her childhood and adolescence. In 2015, when Gypsy Rose was 23, she met her now-ex-boyfriend Nicholas Godejohn online, and the couple plotted the murder of Dee Dee. Nick stabbed Dee Dee to death in their Springfield home, and after the couple were caught by police, they were both arrested for Dee Dee's murder. In 2016, Gypsy was sentenced to 10 years at Chillicothe Correctional Center in Missouri after pleading guilty to second-degree murder, according to People. Nick was convicted of first-degree murder in November 2018, and sentenced to life in prison without parole in February 2019, per E! News. After both Gypsy and Nick went to prison, they broke up. Upon her release in late 2023, Gypsy Rose started a new life with her husband Ryan. So, who is Gypsy Rose's husband, and what happened to their marriage? Ahead, here's everything to know about Ryan Anderson: Who is Gypsy Rose Blanchard's husband, Ryan Anderson? Ryan Anderson is is a middle school special education teacher, per People. He's from Lake Charles, Louisiana, according to his Instagram bio. Overall, Ryan's social media presence is mainly dedicated to showing his love for Gypsy Rose. His Instagram bio still reads: "I'm married to the most wonderful, most beautiful woman in the world, Gypsy Rose Blanchard." And throughout their marriage, he has shared pictures from a few of his visits with Gypsy Rose while she was incarcerated. Before Gypsy's release, Ryan posted an Instagram photo of the two grinning alongside the caption, "Last visit with my wife...53 days left..." That said, Ryan told People that he is "a very private person" and that he was worried about the attention that would be thrown upon him and Gypsy after her release. "It’s going to be a whirlwind and there’ll be a lot of attention," Ryan said. "I’m still very nervous about that." "Now it’s kind of like, 'Oh, you’re in the public eye now—go out there and experience it,'" he continued. "But we’ve decided that every night, we’re going to lay in bed, we’re going to talk to each other and check on each other and see how we’re doing, because it is going to be crazy for a minute." Though Ryan is nervous about being thrust into the spotlight, he told the publication that "at the same time I know I’m excited because she’ll be right there to help me through it." Ryan and Gypsy Rose first connected in 2020. Gypsy Rose and Ryan's relationship began at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. "It was when [the Netflix true crime docuseries] Tiger King was really popular," Ryan told People. "My co-worker at the time was like, 'I want to write Tiger King.' I said, 'I'll tell you what, if you write him, I'll write Gypsy Rose Blanchard.'" Ryan had watched the HBO documentary, Mommy Dead and Dearest, about Gypsy Rose and Dee Dee about three years before he wrote to his future wife, according to his interview with People. "And then The Act had came out [in 2019] and I've never watched The Act, but I remember my friends talking about The Act and I was like, I'll watch the documentary again," he added to the publication. "So it was kind of fresh on my mind." After Ryan sent the letter to Gypsy, he didn’t think he’d hear back. But after a few weeks, the two began a back-and-forth email chain. Ryan said that Gypsy was attracted to how personal and selfless he was for helping his mother raise his nephew, per People. The feeling was more than mutual. "I remember I had butterflies when we'd email," Ryan told People. "But really what set it over the top was the first time I heard her voice." The pair didn't meet in person until July 2021. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, Ryan and Gypsy Rose weren't able to connect IRL until more than a year after they began talking. "We met in 2020 when the pandemic was really, really strong, and I had a lot of emotional ups and downs because of COVID," Gypsy Rose told People. "Unfortunately, it put the prison in a position to where it restricted our freedom even more... So Ryan has seen me through some really good times, some really hard times." Since Gypsy Rose was in prison, most of their relationship was spent over the phone. "We've been able to build this emotional bond that within two seconds of talking on the phone, he knows my emotions," she explained to People. "And he'll be like, 'Are you okay? Do you want to talk about it?' So I'm thankful that I have a man that is open enough with his own emotions so I could let my emotions flow." Ryan and Gypsy Rose got married in July 2022. The couple obtained a marriage license in Chillicothe, Missouri, on June 27, 2022, and on July 21, 2022, the couple tied the knot in the prison with no guests, per People. Although Ryan and Gypsy Rose were already legally married, they wanted to have another celebration when she was released. "We do plan on having a reception/redo wedding with all of our family and our friends and the dress and the cake and everything because we deserve that. I deserve that. He deserves that," Gypsy Rose told People in December. "Our prison wedding was just something to where we can make our vows to each other. It was something that meant something to us. And I think the party is kind of for everybody else and us, but mostly for everybody else." Ryan shared the couple's first picture together in 2023. In the photo, posted to Instagram on August 14, 2023, the two are holding hands and smiling. "Me and my lovely wife," he captioned the sweet snap. Since Gypsy's release from prison, the couple shared more photos together—as well as other glimpses into married life. On January 1, Gypsy Rose showed off her wedding ring. "Finally get to wear my beautiful wedding ring 💗 I love you @ryan_s_anderson_," she wrote. On January 2, she also posted a pic of the couple smiling as Ryan wrapped his arms around her, with the simple caption: "Married life with @ryan_s_anderson_ 💕." Gypsy called Ryan her "emotional backbone." In an exclusive interview with People around the time of her release from prison, Gypsy said, "My husband Ryan has been an emotional backbone for the last three years." She also told the publication that "he is probably the most compassionate soul that I've ever met, and the most patient." Ryan and Gypsy were moving in together and looking forward to starting a family. "We're in love," Gypsy told People. "I don't foresee any major hardships [in our marriage]. I think this, being in prison, has been the hard part." Gypsy also shared with the publication that she was excited about moving in with Ryan and starting their life together. “I’ve never lived with a man,” she said. “I grew up with a mom, so I didn’t even grow up with a dad in the house. So I’m like, ‘I don’t even know what it’s like to live with a man.’” The couple were also looking forward to starting a family, per the publication, but Gypsy acknowledged that even this happy time in her life isn't without its challenges. "It's hard because I'm going into a new life and I'm newly married, and I'm going to have kids one day," she said, "And I'm going to have to explain to my kids why their grandmother on mommy's side isn't around. That's going to be a really hard conversation." Their love story unfolded in a Lifetime docuseries. On New Year's Eve, Gypsy Rose shared a picture of herself and her hubby sharing a smooch with an LED sign that says "Ryan & Gypsy" behind them. In the caption, she revealed that her love story with Ryan will be featured in a Lifetime docuseries called The Prison Confessions of Gypsy Rose Blanchard. "A New Years Eve Eve kiss with my hubby💕 watch how our love story began on #theprisonconfessionsofgypsyroseblanchard airing on @lifetimetv ," she wrote. In the documentary, Gypsy gushed about her new love, adding that she planned to move to Louisiana to live with him after being released. At the time of filming, Ryan lived with his mother to help raise his nephew, but said he was looking for a home for the couple. “I do believe I am the Prince Charming that Gypsy has been waiting for her whole life," he said in the doc, per Today. "I really do believe that. When Gypsy gets out, I plan on supporting her and doing what a husband is supposed to do to his wife." While their love story was pretty sweet, they did face backlash from some online naysayers. Gypsy clapped back in a January Instagram comment, which has since been deleted. "Ryan, don’t listen to the haters. I love you, and you love me. We do not owe anyone anything. Our family is who matters. If you get likes and good comments great, if you get hate then whatever because THEY DON’T MATTER," she wrote. "I love you💕 besides they jealous because you are rocking my world every night…yeah I said it, the D is fire🔥 happy wife happy life ❤️" Gypsy announced their split in March 2024. While Ryan and Gypsy’s love story endeared many, they're now separated. In a private Facebook post obtained by People, she shared she wanted to do some self-discovery post-split. “I am learning to listen to my heart. Right now, I need time to let myself find… who I am,” she wrote. She added another message on the account: “I feel like the older you get, the more quiet you become. Life humbles you so deeply as you age. You realize how much nonsense you've wasted time on. You start to accept things for what they really are. You stop forcing friendships & connections with people & you just learn to grow.” Wishing you continued healing, Gypsy! Sydney Wingfield is a freelance writer specializing in the beauty and lifestyle spaces. A graduate of Penn State Harrisburg, Sydney's portfolio covers home trends, beauty launches, entertainment, and health news. Her work has been featured in publications such as Architectural Digest, Women’s Health, InStyle, Cosmopolitan, and many others.


--- [Gypsy-Rose Blanchard's relationships and life in prison explained] ---
Who was Gypsy-Rose Blanchard married to? Current partner and life in prison explained as she appears on Loose Women Gypsy-Rose Blanchard joins the panel of the ITV magazine show to open up about her life and her whirlwind year since being released from prison. The 33-year-old was released from prison last year after being convicted of second-degree murder. As Gypsy-Rose appears on Loos Women, here’s a little look at what her life and relationships look like now. Advertisement Hide AdAdvertisement Hide AdWho was Gypsy-Rose Blanchard married to? Gypsy-Rose was married to Louisiana teacher Ryan Anderson from July 2022 to December 2024. The pair married in a ceremony held in prison, with no guests in attendance. Gypsy-Rose and Ryan filmed the docu-series ‘Gypsy-Rose: Life After Lock Up’ together amid her release from prison in December 2023. However, she confirmed in a statement on social media that the pair had parted ways. She said: "People have been asking what is going on in my life. Unfortunately my husband and I are going through a separation and I moved in with my parents home down the bayou. I have the support of my family and friends to help guide me through this. I am learning to listen to my heart. Right now I need time to let myself find… who I am.” Who is Gypsy-Rose Blanchard with now? After her separation from Ryan, Gypsy-Rose rekindled her relationship with ex-fiance Ken Urker. The couple had originally become engaged during Gypsy-Rose’s incarceration after meeting through a pen pal programme, but split shortly after. Advertisement Hide AdAdvertisement Hide AdIn July 2024, Gypsy-Rose announced that the pair were expecting their first child together. Their daughter was born on December 28, 2024. Why was Gypsy-Rose Blanchard in prison? Gypsy-Rose was sentenced to ten years in prison after pleading guilty to second-degree murder of her mother, 48-year-old Dee Dee Blanchard. Her mother was murdered by Nicholas Godejohn, a man around a similar age who had sparked a relationship online with Gypsy-Rose. Godejohn was sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole. Dee Dee had subjected Gypsy-Rose to a life of physical, mental and medical abuse prior to her death, which included lying about her daughter being disabled and being terminally ill. Dee Dee shaved Gypsy-Rose’s head to make it appear that her daughter was undergoing chemotherapy, and she used a wheelchair despite being able to walk. Gypsy-Rose’s mother had began pretending that she had illnesses as a child and would administer a number of medications to her, as well as Gypsy-Rose using a feeding tube that she did not need and lying about her age to make her seem younger. Experts believe that Dee Dee suffered from Munchausen syndrome by proxy, a mental illness in which the caretaker of a child makes up symptoms or exaggerates the extent of an illness. Advertisement Hide AdAdvertisement Hide AdGypsy-Rose would later reveal that her mother had been physically abusive to her in private and also consistently held her hand in public, squeezing it if she said something wrong or said something that implied she was not as ill as her mother was letting on. In 2012, Gypsy-Rose met Godejohn online and began messaging after meeting on a Christian dating website. She confided in a neighbour that she and Godejohn had grown close and were even planning to elope. After meeting once in person, Gypsy-Rose and Godejohn continued to message and eventually developed a plan to kill Dee Dee. Godejohn travelled to Springfield, Missouri in June 2015 after receiving money Gypsy-Rose for the bus ticket. Gypsy-Rose then let him into the home and allegedly gave him duct tape, a knife and gloves to be used to kill her mother. Godejohn stabbed Dee Dee 17 times while she slept. Gypsy-Rose locked herself in the bathroom and covered her ears while Godejohn carried out the murder. After being apprehended, Gypsy-Rose pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and was sentenced to ten years in prison. She served eight before being released in December 2023.


--- [Gypsy Rose Blanchard Finalizes Divorce From Ryan Anderson] ---
Gypsy-Rose Blanchard Finalizes Divorce From Ryan Anderson Two Years After Prison Wedding Gypsy-Rose Blanchard has finalized her divorce from Ryan Scott Anderson. The pair, who separated eight months ago, tied the knot in a July 2022 wedding ceremony at Chillicothe Correctional Center in Missouri while Blanchard was still in prison for her role in the murder of her mother. “It was kind of like my first shock of holy crap. I’m married,” Blanchard told People about her decision to end the marriage. “It’s kind of like, okay, well, you know that you’re settling — that you’re kind of pushing on to just do what everybody else does in life, but you’re just settling.” Blanchard was released from prison in December 2023 after serving seven of her 10-year sentence. She quickly moved in with Anderson and passionately defended their relationship online in the weeks following her release. But earlier this year, she noted that she started to feel “like a part of me was lost” in the marriage. “I feel like I found that missing piece of myself that I always felt was lost and now reclaiming that back,” she told People. “It’s heartbreaking, because no one gets married to get a divorce. Processing those emotions has been hard.” Following the end of her relationship with Anderson, she reunited with her ex-boyfriend, Ken Urker. Blanchard and Urker are expecting their first child together, a baby girl who is due in January. She’s also still processing the 2015 murder of Clauddine “Dee Dee” Blanchard. Her then-boyfriend, Nicholas Godejohn, fatally stabbed Dee Dee at her Springfield, Missouri home. Godejohn was convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to life without the possibility of parole. Blanchard was convicted of second-degree murder and sentenced to 10 years in prison. “I don’t want people to follow me because of the crime that I committed,” Blanchard recently told Rolling Stone ahead of the release of her memoir My Time to Stand. “I don’t want to have fans because they feel like what I did was right.” That she has fans at all, she noted, was a surprise to her when she was released. For a moment, she believed a somewhat normal life would be waiting for her on the outside. “I started to understand that is not reality,” she said.
