=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lillian Disney - Wikipedia]
Lillian Marie Disney (née Bounds; February 15, 1899 - December 16, 1997) was an American ink artist at the Walt Disney Animation Studios and the wife of Walt Disney from 1925 until his death in 1966.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lillian_Disney

[Lillian Disney | Disney Wiki | Fandom]
Lillian Marie Disney (née Bounds) was the wife of Walt Disney from 1925, until his death in 1966. Born in Spalding, Idaho, she graduated from Lapwai High School and attended a year of business college before moving to southern California in 1923 to live with her sister, Hazel Sewell. In 1924, Lillian became Walt first official secretary before marrying him one year later[1] [2]. On her early ...
URL: https://disney.fandom.com/wiki/Lillian_Disney

[95 years ago, Walt Disney married an Idaho woman who would later name ...]
Jul 13, 2020 · Lillian Marie Bounds was born in Spaulding and raised in Lapwai. In 1922, Lillian began studying at Lewiston Business College when, after about a year in, her sister Hazel offered her a job in ...
URL: https://www.ktvb.com/article/news/local/208/walt-lillian-disney-lewiston-idaho-disneyland-disney-world-history-trivia/277-47237022-0763-4186-80e1-18376186730d

[REMEMBERIN­G LILLIAN DISNEY - PressReader]
Mar 1, 2023 · The same year, Lillian broke with tradition and set out for adventure like her father decades earlier. In 1920, she enrolled at Lewiston Business College, learning stenograph­y and secretaria­l skills. Three years later, her sister Hazel, who lived in Los Angeles, urged Lillian to abandon the potatoes of Idaho for the sunshine of California.
URL: https://www.pressreader.com/usa/wdw-magazine-usa/20230301/281479281379395

[Wife, Sounding Board, and Philanthropist Lillian Bounds ...]
Feb 15, 2026 — She died in December 1997, six years before construction was completed. A year before her death, Lillian provided a $100 thousand grant that ...
URL: http://sfcompanion.blogspot.com/2020/02/wife-sounding-board-and-philanthropist.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lillian Disney - Wikipedia] ---
Lillian Marie Disney (née Bounds; February 15, 1899 – December 16, 1997) was an American ink artist at the Walt Disney Animation Studios and the wife of Walt Disney from 1925 until his death in 1966. Born in Spalding, Idaho, Disney graduated from high school in Lapwai before moving to Lewiston to attend college. She left Idaho in 1923 to move to Southern California, where she met future husband Walt while working as a secretary for his company.
During a train ride in 1928, Walt revealed to his wife a new animated character, whom he called "Mortimer Mouse". Lillian suggested that he rename his character "Mickey Mouse", a name which has since become synonymous with the Disney brand.
Walt Disney died from lung cancer on December 15, 1966, after which Lillian remarried, to John L. Truyens (a Southern California real estate developer) from 1969 until his death in 1981. On December 15, 1997, Lillian Disney suffered a stroke and died the following morning in Los Angeles at age 98.




--- [Lillian Disney | Disney Wiki | Fandom] ---
Lillian Marie Disney (née Bounds) was the wife of Walt Disney from 1925, until his death in 1966. Born in Spalding, Idaho, she graduated from Lapwai High School and attended a year of business college before moving to southern California in 1923 to live with her sister, Hazel Sewell. In 1924, Lillian became Walt first official secretary before marrying him one year later[1] [2]. On her early years at Disney, Lillian recounted the following; "I was not very artistic at all and I was never very good at inking and painting. Later, Walt made me his secretary, but I made too many mistakes when he was dictating. He always said I was so bad he had to marry me. They tried to use me as a secretary, but I wasn't very good at it. So I went back to painting". Her filmography included working as an ink artist for the short film Plane Crazy. Lillian is credited with having named her husband's famous character, Mickey Mouse, during a train trip from New York to California in 1928. Walt showed a drawing of the cartoon mouse to his wife and told her that he was going to name it "Mortimer Mouse." Lillian replied that the name sounded "too pompous" and she was very proud to have suggested the name "Mickey Mouse" instead of Mortimer. Walt named one of the Disneyland Railroad cars the "Lilly Belle" in her honor, and the Walt Disney World Railroad in Magic Kingdom has the locomotive named "Lilly Belle", where each locomotive is named for someone who greatly contributed to Walt Disney Productions or The Walt Disney Company. Walt Disney Imagineering created "The Empress Lilly", a paddle steamer replica, at Downtown Disney at the Walt Disney World in Florida which was christened by Lillian herself on May 1, 1997. Lillian was inducted to the Disney Legends in 2003. Lillian Disney suffered a stroke on December 15, 1997, which was exactly 31 years after the death of her first husband, Walt. She died the following morning on December 16, 1997, at her home in Los Angeles, California. She was 98 years old. She was posthumously named a Disney Legend in 2003, alongside her sister-in-law Edna Disney.


--- [95 years ago, Walt Disney married an Idaho woman who would later name ...] ---
LEWISTON, Idaho — From the single star to the tip of the castle, you know when you've started watching a Disney-made movie. But did you know the man behind the mouse, and those movies, Walt Disney, fell in love with an Idaho woman and started their lives together in north Idaho? Lillian Marie Bounds was born in Spaulding and raised in Lapwai. In 1922, Lillian began studying at Lewiston Business College when, after about a year in, her sister Hazel offered her a job in Southern California. For $15 a week, Lillian colored frames of film at the Walt Disney Studio. It didn't take long for Walt to notice the new girl from Idaho. "He had a new car and he would offer to take the girls in the inking department a ride home," Lewiston historian Steven Branting said. "[Lillian] soon started to realize that even though she lived closest to the studio she was the last one to be dropped off." On July 13, 1925, Walt and Lillian married near her hometown. "[They] took the train, came back to Lewiston, and got married at her brother's home," Branting said. "It was kind of a private wedding, just family and a few close friends." That craftsman-style home at 918 Third Street still stands nearly 100 years later and looks almost identical to how it did then. The newlyweds honeymooned around the Northwest, visiting places like Spokane before making their way by train down the West Coast to Los Angeles. It didn't take long for Lillian to put her imprint on one of America's most iconic cartoons. She actually came up with the name 'Mickey.' "He wanted to call it 'Mortimer' and she felt that was too old-fashioned, it just didn't have the flavor of being joyous," Branting said. "Mortimer is an old fogie name." So what other Idaho influences will you find in the wonderful world of Disney? Rumor has it that the iconic open to all Disney movies was actually based on the Lewis-Clark Valley. "I've talked to the archives, they've talked to the people who put the films together, the editors," Branting said. "It's just a mish-mosh of all that imagery of a river and a valley and the beautiful scenery and a bridge. It just coincidentally happens to look like it because they didn't live here and when Lillian grew up here, the valley didn't look like that. A lot of people have looked at it and they want to see Lewiston and that's ok, that's alright, [but] it wasn't done about Lewiston, no." In another Idaho connection, Walt was named after a preacher from Chicago, a family friend named Walter Parr. Years later, Parr was transferred to Lewiston. Parr died from an infection in 1922 and was buried three blocks from where Walt Disney and Lillian were married three years later. Join 'The 208' conversation: - Text us at (208) 321-5614 - E-mail us at the208@ktvb.com - Join our The 208 Facebook group: https://www.facebook.com/groups/the208KTVB/ - Follow us on Twitter: @the208KTVB or tweet #the208 and #SoIdaho - Follow us on Instagram: @the208KTVB - Bookmark our landing page: /the-208 - And we also turn each episode into a podcast on Spotify or Podbeam - Still reading this list? We're on YouTube, too:


--- [REMEMBERIN­G LILLIAN DISNEY - PressReader] ---
No content


--- [Wife, Sounding Board, and Philanthropist Lillian Bounds ...] ---
| Lewiston, ca. 1918. J. H. Hawley photo. | Around her, the Indians still wore traditional garb and the pioneer environment dominated. While the old “Wild West” was passing, horses were still far more common than cars and trucks. As a teenager, she surely visited the “big city” – Lewiston, with perhaps 6,200 people. At that time, only the downtown area had paved streets; leaders hoped to find money to extend pavement into some residential areas. Sadly, her father died in 1916. By then most of Lillian’s nine older siblings were out making their way on their own. In 1920, the mother had a small boarding unit in Lewiston. The census recorded no occupation for Lillian, so she was probably helping her mother with the business. Three years later, she joined her sister Hazel in Los Angeles to look for work. As it happened, a friend of her sister had a job with an outfit called Disney Brothers’ Studio (it would become Walt Disney Productions in 1929). The friend was a “cel inker” – she filled in outlined figures with colored ink – and said the brothers had another opening. The job required a good eye and steady hand, and Lillian was hired. She also did some secretarial work. The studio, owned by Walt and his brother Roy, was Walt’s third attempt at a company to produce animated cartoons. The first two had “gone bust,” and this new venture had its own financial problems. The story is told that Walt sometimes asked Lillian to delay cashing her $15 weekly paycheck. The Disney brothers themselves were “batching it” in a tiny apartment. Lillian later told an interviewer, “I've always teased Walt that the reason he asked me to marry him so soon after Roy married Edna Francis, a Kansas City girl, was that he needed somebody to fix his meals.” She married the boss in July 1925; the ceremony took place in Lewiston. According to the official studio history, in 1928 Lillian made a crucial contribution to the iconic Disney story: She talked Walt out of the name "Mortimer" for his new creation, who became "Mickey" Mouse instead. | Walt and Lillian Disney, 1935. Walt Disney Family Foundation photo. | After Walt’s death, she directed funds to a worthy enterprise: the California Institute of the Arts. Walt had fostered the merger of two struggling creative organizations into "CalArts," the first degree-granting school for students of the visual and performing arts. Then, in 1987, she contributed a $50 million "down payment" for the construction of a world-class concert hall in Los Angeles. Unfortunately, numerous obstacles delayed the project. She died in December 1997, six years before construction was completed. A year before her death, Lillian provided a $100 thousand grant that helped the Nez Perce tribe buy back historic tribal artifacts. She generally avoided publicity, but indications are that numerous other donations were known only to the recipients. | References: [French] | | Lillian Disney as told to Isabella Taves, "I Live With a Genius,” McCalls magazine (February 1953). | | “Lillian Disney,” Disney Legends, The Walt Disney Company. | | “Lillian Disney Dies,” Spokesman-Review, Spokane, Washington (December 18, 1997). | | Neal Gabler, Walt Disney: The Triumph of American Imagination, Random House, New York (2006). | | Bernard Weinraub, “Walt Disney's Widow, Lillian, Dies at 98,” New York Times (December 18, 1997). |
