=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Matthew Perry's Cause of Death: Revisiting His Final Hours and Last ...]
Oct 28, 2025 · Matthew Perry died of an accidental ketamine overdose on Oct. 28, 2023. Here’s everything to know about the ‘Friends’ star’s death at the age of 54, along with the criminal investigation ...
URL: https://people.com/matthew-perry-death-what-to-know-11837723

[Matthew Perry - Wikipedia]
Matthew Langford Perry (August 19, 1969 – October 28, 2023) was an American and Canadian actor. He gained international fame for starring as Chandler Bing on the NBC television sitcom Friends (1994–2004).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_Perry

[Matthew Perry died from acute effects of ketamine, other contributing ...]
Dec 15, 2023 · Matthew Perry died from the acute effects of ketamine, according to the autopsy report released Friday by the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner. The "Friends" actor died on Oct. 28, 2023. He was 54 years old. The autopsy listed drowning, coronary artery disease and buprenorphine effects as contributing factors not related to the immediate cause of death. The manner of death was ruled an ...
URL: https://abcnews.com/GMA/Culture/matthew-perry-died-acute-effects-ketamine-contributing-factors/story?id=104485781

[Matthew Perry cause of death revealed: How 'Friends' star died]
Dec 15, 2023 · The role of 'high levels of ketamine' in Matthew Perry's death The autopsy, conducted the day after his death, describes Perry as a “54-year-old male with history of chronic obstructive ...
URL: https://www.usatoday.com/story/entertainment/celebrities/2023/12/15/matthew-perry-cause-of-death-revealed-ketamine/71441112007/

['Friends' star Matthew Perry dead at 54, found in hot tub at L.A. home]
Oct 29, 2023 · “Friends” star Matthew Perry was found dead Saturday in a hot tub at his Los Angeles home, law enforcement sources said. He was 54. Authorities responded about 4 p.m. to his home, where he was ...
URL: https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2023-10-28/freinds-star-matthew-perry-dead-at-56


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Matthew Perry's Cause of Death: Revisiting His Final Hours and Last ...] ---
Matthew Perry’s Death, 2 Years Later: Revisiting the Friends Star's Final Hours and Last Words In June 2025, the doctor charged in Matthew Perry's death agreed to plead guilty to four counts of distributing ketamine to the actor, with the 'Ketamine Queen' pleading guilty in September By Lynsey Eidell Lynsey Eidell Lynsey Eidell is a contributing writer at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2022. Her work has previously appeared in GLAMOUR, Vanity Fair, Teen Vogue, Allure and more. People Editorial Guidelines and Nicole Pomarico Published on October 28, 2025 09:15AM EDT 1 Comment Credit : Gregg DeGuire/FilmMagic NEED TO KNOW Actor Matthew Perry died on Oct. 28, 2023, after an accidental ketamine overdoseA criminal investigation followed his sudden deathMultiple suspects have pleaded guilty to charges that led to the Friends star's overdose It's been two years since Matthew Perry died unexpectedly in October 2023 following an accidental ketamine overdose. Just one year before his death, Perry, who famously starred as Chandler Bing on Friends, told PEOPLE in October 2022 that he felt "safely sober" after struggling with alcoholism and opioid addiction for years. But the Emmy Award winner was also candid about his own mortality — and how many second chances at life he had been given over the years. Perry's multiple near-death experiences, including a five-month hospital stay in 2018, left Perry “grateful to be alive.” “I think they’ll be surprised at how bad it got at certain times and how close to dying I came,” Perry said to the readers of his 2022 memoir, Friends, Lovers and the Big Terrible Thing. “I say in the book that if I did die, it would shock people, but it wouldn't surprise anybody. And that's a very scary thing to be living with.” Almost exactly one year later, Perry’s tragic prediction came true: On Oct. 28, 2023, the Friends star was found dead in his jacuzzi — the result of a ketamine overdose. Though his death was ruled accidental by the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner-Coroner, five people were eventually charged in connection with Perry’s drug overdose, including his live-in personal assistant and two doctors. Here is a look back at Matthew Perry’s sudden death — and the lasting legacy he left behind. How did Matthew Perry die? Matthew Perry. David M. Benett/Dave Benett/Getty Perry died from the acute effects of ketamine, according to his official autopsy report, which was released in December 2023. Drowning, coronary artery disease and the effects of buprenorphine (a medication used to treat opioid use disorder) were also listed as contributing factors. Perry's passing was ruled accidental. “At the high levels of ketamine found in his postmortem blood specimens, the main lethal effects would be from both cardiovascular overstimulation and respiratory depression,” the coroner stated in the report. “Drowning contributes due to the likelihood of submersion into the pool as he lapsed into unconsciousness.” Perry — who had been “clean for 19 months” before his death, according to the autopsy report — had been receiving ketamine infusion therapy, which the National Institute of Health has studied for its potential mental health benefits. His last treatment occurred “one and a half weeks” before his death — but the coroner noted the ketamine in his system could not have been from that treatment session, as ketamine has a half-life of three to four hours or less. The autopsy also noted that no drugs or drug paraphernalia were found near the pool or adjacent to the water and that there were “no signs of fatal trauma or no foul play suspected.” When did Matthew Perry die? Matthew Perry visits SiriusXM Studios on November 01, 2022 in New York City. Santiago Felipe/Getty Perry died on Oct. 28, 2023. According to the Los Angeles Fire Department, first responders arrived at his residence at 4:07 p.m. that day after a 911 call was made that referenced a “medical emergency.” However, Perry was already dead when they arrived. “An adult male patient was deceased prior to first response arrival,” an LAFD spokesperson told PEOPLE. “The patient was found by a bystander who had repositioned the victim where the head was out of water” in a freestanding jacuzzi. “Firefighters pulled the victim out of the jacuzzi and did a quick medical assessment to find he was deceased.” A subsequent investigation into his death would shed light on how the Friends star spent his final hours. Over the course of the morning and early afternoon, Perry’s live-in assistant, Kenneth Iwamasa, “repeatedly” injected him with ketamine — despite not being medically trained to do so, per the Department of Justice. Iwamasa told investigators that the actor first asked him to inject him with ketamine at about 8:30 in the morning on the day he died, per The New York Times. Just over four hours later, Perry asked for a second shot — which Iwamasa also administered — while he watched a movie. Within 40 minutes, Iwamasa injected Perry with a third dose, at his request, and then prepared his hot tub for use before leaving the home to run errands. When Iwamasa returned later that afternoon, Perry was dead. Where did Matthew Perry die? Matthew Perry photographed in Hollywood, CA on September 20, 2022. Perry was found in his jacuzzi by his assistant, Iwamasa, who had returned to the star’s Pacific Palisades home after running errands. The actor purchased the home in 2020 and had just moved in a few weeks prior to his death after completing renovations. A source told PEOPLE at the time that the actor “was incredibly happy” and had called his new home “heaven.” A year after Perry’s death, the home was sold in an off-market deal for $8.55 million. The new owner of the home, movie producer and real estate developer Anita Verma-Lallian, shared on Instagram that she did not dwell on the home’s tragic past. “We chose to honor the positive aspects of the previous owner’s life, his immense talent, and all the joy he brought to so many people,” she wrote, referencing Perry. Related Stories Why Were Arrests Made in Connection with Matthew Perry’s Death? A Timeline of the Investigation Matthew Perry's Friends and Costars React to His Death: 'Shock and Sadness Prevail' How old was Matthew Perry when he died? Matthew Perry poses at the opening night for "Six Degrees of Separation" on Broadway at The Barrymore Theatre on April 25, 2017. Bruce Glikas/Bruce Glikas/FilmMagic Perry was 54 years old when he died. The actor struggled for most of his adult life with substance abuse — and had a near-death experience in 2018 at the age of 49 as a result of his opioid use. The Friends actor began drinking at the age of 14, as he revealed in his 2022 memoir Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing, and eventually became addicted to alcohol and Vicodin, which a doctor had prescribed him after a 1997 jet skiing accident. “I had a big problem with alcohol and pills and I couldn’t stop,” he told PEOPLE in a 2013 cover story. “Eventually things got so bad that I couldn’t hide it, and then everybody knew.” Perry sought treatment at least 15 times over the years, but the drug and alcohol usage had lasting effects on his health. In 2018, when Perry was 49 years old, the actor spent five months in the hospital after his colon burst from years of opioid overuse. He spent two weeks in a coma and doctors gave him a 2 percent chance of survival, he shared in 2022. “That's the time I really came close to my life ending,” Perry told PEOPLE, adding that the experience led him to stop taking prescription opioids. “A little window opened, and I crawled through it, and I no longer want OxyContin.” What were Matthew Perry’s last words? Matthew Perry on 'Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen'. Charles Sykes/Bravo/NBCU Photo Bank/NBCUniversal via Getty Perry spoke his last known words to his assistant, Iwamasa. According to court documents, their final interaction came when the actor requested a third ketamine injection in the span of just a few hours. “Shoot me up with a big one,” Perry allegedly said to his assistant. Our new app is here! Free, fun and full of exclusives. Scan to download now! What was the public's reaction to Matthew Perry’s death? Courteney Cox Arquette as Monica Geller, Matt LeBlanc as Joey Tribbiani, Lisa Kudrow as Phoebe Buffay, David Schwimmer as Ross Geller, Matthew Perry as Chandler Bing, Jennifer Aniston as Rachel Green in 'Friends',. Reisig & Taylor/NBCU Photo Bank/NBCUniversal/Getty Perry’s death devastated his family and fans alike — and the loss hit his Friends costars particularly hard. Two days after the actor’s sudden passing, his castmates from the iconic sitcom spoke out in a joint statement obtained exclusively by PEOPLE. “We are all so utterly devastated by the loss of Matthew. We were more than just cast mates. We are a family,” their statement read. “There is so much to say, but right now we’re going to take a moment to grieve and process this unfathomable loss.” The emotional message was signed by Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc and David Schwimmer. Perry’s family also released a statement in the wake of his death, telling PEOPLE they were “devastated” by the “tragic” loss of their son and brother. But in the months following his death, Perry’s mother, Suzanne Morrison, and stepfather, Keith Morrison, opened up about how Perry’s passing — while heartbreaking — had a sense of “inevitability.” “I think there was something... there was an inevitability to what was going to happen next to him, and he felt it very strongly,” Suzanne said around the one-year anniversary of Perry’s death. Keith echoed that Perry “had been close to it lots of times over the years.” “For years we have had to rearm ourselves repeatedly for the possibility that he would die,” Keith added. “And it was only heroic efforts by doctors that kept him alive a couple of times.” Beyond those closest to the actor, tributes poured in from fans following the news of Perry’s death. A memorial grew outside of the New York City apartment building where his Friends character Chandler Bing lived, with fans gathering, leaving flowers and taking photos. Who was held responsible for Matthew Perry’s death? Matthew Perry and Jasveen Sangha. Getty;Shutterstock In May 2024, the California branch of the Drug Enforcement Administration, in conjunction with the Los Angeles Police Department, announced an investigation into the circumstances surrounding Perry’s death. The LAPD had begun investigating the actor’s death in December, following the medical examiner’s report, and was working with the DEA and the U.S. Postal Inspector to determine the source of the ketamine that led to Perry’s death. By August 2024, five arrests were made in connection with Perry’s death and charges were filed against Jasveen Sangha, Dr. Salvador Plascencia, Dr. Mark Chavez, Erik Fleming and Perry’s assistant Iwamasa. According to United States Attorney Martin Estrada, Perry fell back into addiction in the fall of 2023 and the five defendants “were more interested in profiting off Mr. Perry than caring for his well being.” All of the defendants had pled guilty to their charges. Iwamasa pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine causing death and admitted to injecting Perry “repeatedly” before his death, including three times on the day he died. Fleming, a TV director and acquaintance of Perry’s, admitted to distributing the ketamine and pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine and one count of distribution of ketamine resulting in death, per the Department of Justice. Both Iwamasa and Fleming are facing up to 25 years in prison. Dr. Mark Chavez, who formerly operated a ketamine clinic, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to distribute ketamine. He admitted he sold the drug to Dr. Salvador Plascencia, another defendant in the case, who is accused of selling the drug to Perry’s assistant Iwamasa. Chavez faces up to 10 years in prison. Plascenscia, meanwhile, was accused of supplying drugs to Perry’s assistant Iwamasa. He was charged with one count of conspiracy to distribute ketamine, seven counts of distribution of ketamine and two counts of altering and falsifying documents or records related to the federal investigation. According to the prosecutors, Plascenscia sent texts that allegedly read, "I wonder how much this moron will pay,” in reference to Perry. In June 2025, Plascensia agreed to plead guilty to four counts of distributing ketamine to Perry, according to a plea agreement seen by PEOPLE. He could face up to 40 years behind bars. Sangha, whom prosecutors have referred to as the “Ketamine Queen,” was accused of distributing the ketamine that killed Perry, according to the Associated Press. On Sept. 3, 2025, Sangha pled guilty to one count of maintaining a drug-involved premises, three counts of distribution of ketamine and one count of distribution of ketamine resulting in death or serious bodily injury. Her sentencing is set for Dec. 10. What is Matthew Perry’s legacy? Matthew Perry as Chandler Bing. Reisig & Taylor/NBCU Photo Bank/NBCUniversal via Getty Since Perry’s death, his family has been making sure the beloved actor is remembered just as much for his dedication to helping others with their sobriety as he is for his iconic role on Friends. Shortly after his death, Perry's parents and five siblings launched the Matthew Perry Foundation of Canada. The organization seeks to provide resources and a “support system” for people after they’ve completed rehab, Perry’s stepfather Keith explained to PEOPLE in 2024. “Because that was Matthew's problem," he said. "He was through a rehab center, he’d come out, he’d be fine for a few months, and then we discovered that he had secretly using from the time he got out of rehab. So finding some way to bridge the gap, to get people well and not just kind of get them clean, is a big part of this.” All About Matthew Perry's 5 Siblings The Matthew Perry Foundation in the U.S. carries out a similar mission, seeking “to fill the gaps in people’s recovery journey,” according to Perry’s longtime manager Doug Chapin, who now serves as the foundation’s board president. “We are achieving his primary goal of wanting to be remembered for helping people,” Chapin told PEOPLE in 2024. The work being conducted by both the Canadian and U.S. foundations has provided Perry’s loved ones with “a reason to be positive” in the midst of their grief. “We know that his dying wish was to be remembered for helping other people, more than his famousness for Friends,” Keith told PEOPLE. “That has now become our mission in life is to carry that wish on.” Close Leave a Comment Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Deaths


--- [Matthew Perry - Wikipedia] ---
Matthew Langford Perry (August 19, 1969 – October 28, 2023) was an American and Canadian actor. He gained international fame for starring as Chandler Bing on the NBC television sitcom Friends (1994–2004). Perry also appeared on Ally McBeal (2002) and received Primetime Emmy Award nominations for his performances in The West Wing (2003) and The Ron Clark Story (2006). He played a leading role in the NBC series Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip (2006–2007), and also became known for his leading film roles in Fools Rush In (1997), Almost Heroes (1998), Three to Tango (1999), The Whole Nine Yards (2000), Serving Sara (2002), The Whole Ten Yards (2004), and 17 Again (2009).
Perry was the co-creator, co-writer, executive producer and star of the ABC sitcom Mr. Sunshine, which ran from February to April 2011. In August 2012, he starred as sportscaster Ryan King on the NBC sitcom Go On. He co-developed and starred in a revival of the CBS sitcom The Odd Couple portraying Oscar Madison from 2015 to 2017. He had recurring roles in the legal dramas The Good Wife (2012–2013), and The Good Fight (2017). Perry portrayed Ted Kennedy in The Kennedys: After Camelot (2017) and appeared as himself in his final television appearance, Friends: The Reunion (2021). He voiced Benny in the video game Fallout: New Vegas (2010).
For most of his life, Perry suffered from severe addictions to drugs and alcohol. Through his recovery, he became an advocate for rehabilitation and a spokesperson for the National Association of Drug Court Professionals. In 2013, Perry received the Champion of Recovery Award from the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy. In 2022, he released his memoir, Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing.
He died on October 28, 2023, at age 54, from the acute effects of ketamine use, exacerbated by accidental drowning. Five people were charged in connection with helping him acquire lethal doses of the drug. All five pleaded guilty. Salvador Plasencia, a former California physician who supplied him with ketamine, was sentenced to 30 months in prison on December 3, 2025. Mark Chavez, another former California physician involved in dealing of ketamine to Perry, was sentenced on December 16, 2025 to eight months of house arrest. The drug dealer Jasveen Sangha, who was also among those who pled guilty, is believed to have supplied Perry with the ketamine which caused his death.




--- [Matthew Perry died from acute effects of ketamine, other contributing ...] ---
Matthew Perry died from acute effects of ketamine, other contributing factors: Autopsy The "Friends" star died on Oct. 28 at 54 years old. Matthew Perry died from the acute effects of ketamine, according to the autopsy report released Friday by the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner. The "Friends" actor died on Oct. 28, 2023. He was 54 years old. The autopsy listed drowning, coronary artery disease and buprenorphine effects as contributing factors not related to the immediate cause of death. The manner of death was ruled an accident. In a statement the day after responding to his home, the Los Angeles Police Department said Perry "was discovered by a witness unresponsive in his jacuzzi." "The Los Angeles City Fire Department responded to the scene and pronounced Perry deceased," police said. There were no signs of foul play at the scene, according to law enforcement sources. The Los Angeles County Medical Examiner positively identified the body as Perry. Perry was on ketamine infusion therapy, with the most recent therapy 1 1/2 weeks before death, according to the autopsy report. He had high levels of ketamine in his blood, and likely lapsed into unconsciousness and then went under the water, the autopsy report said. He was reported to have been receiving ketamine infusions for depression and anxiety, according to the report, but the medical examiner writes the ketamine in his system at death could not have been from that infusion therapy because ketamine’s half life is 3 to 4 hours or less. His method of intake is listed as unknown. Prescription drugs and loose pills were found at his home, but nothing close to the pool where he was found dead, the report said. The LA County Medical Examiner confirmed to ABC News on Oct. 29 that an autopsy was performed, but his cause of death remained pending due to toxicology results. Perry was known for playing Chandler Bing on the hit sitcom "Friends," which ran from 1994 to 2004. He also starred in several TV series, including "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip," and films like "17 Again" and "Fools Rush In." But outside of his achievements in film and television, Perry had said he wants people to remember him for helping others. "When I die, I don't want 'Friends' to be the first thing that's mentioned," Perry said in an interview on the "Q With Tom Power" podcast in 2022. "I want [helping people] to be the first thing that's mentioned, and I'm gonna live the rest of my life proving that." In his memoir, "Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing," released in 2022, Perry opened up about his addiction to alcohol and prescription painkillers, which were triggered after a doctor prescribed him Vicodin following a jet ski accident. The actor told Diane Sawyer in a "20/20" interview that by speaking out about his struggles with addiction and recovery, he hoped to "help as many people as I can." The late actor also started a sober house to aid others in their struggle with addiction. "If they've gone through anything close to what I went through, I can come in and help," he said.


--- [Matthew Perry cause of death revealed: How 'Friends' star died] ---
'Friends' star Matthew Perry's cause of death revealed in autopsy report Matthew Perry's cause of death has been released. The Los Angeles County Medical Examiner's office on Friday revealed that the late "Friends" actor's death in October was an accident, with the cause being "the acute effects of ketamine." Contributing factors were drowning, coronary artery disease and the effects of buprenorphine. Buprenorphine is "an opioid-like drug used in the treatment of opioid addiction as well as acute and chronic pain," according to Perry's 29-page autopsy report obtained by USA TODAY. There were no signs of "fatal trauma and no foul play suspected," according to the report. How did Matthew Perry die? Perry was found unresponsive and face-down in the "heated end" of his pool on Oct. 28, according to his autopsy. The Los Angeles Fire Department confirmed to USA TODAY that firefighters responded to Perry's Pacific Palisades home at 4:07 p.m. that day and found "an adult male unconscious in a stand-alone jacuzzi." "A bystander had brought the man's head above the water and gotten him to the edge, then firefighters removed him from the water upon their arrival. A rapid medical assessment, sadly, revealed the man was deceased prior to first responder arrival," Nicholas Prange, an LAFD spokesperson, told USA TODAY in a statement on Oct. 30. His live-in personal assistant was the last person to see him alive that afternoon after Perry returned from playing pickleball, according to his autopsy report. The assistant had left Perry's house for several hours to run errands and discovered his body at 4 p.m. Responding officers pronounced him dead at 4:17 p.m. According to his autopsy, there were no pills, drugs or medications found near the pool. He didn't have alcohol or drugs such as methamphetamine, cocaine, heroin and fentanyl in his system. The role of 'high levels of ketamine' in Matthew Perry's death The autopsy, conducted the day after his death, describes Perry as a “54-year-old male with history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease/emphysema, diabetes; drug use in past — reportedly clean for 19 months; heavy tobacco user for many years but currently not smoking; on ketamine infusion therapy with most recent therapy reportedly one and a half weeks before death." The medical examiner makes note that the amount of ketamine, a “dissociative anesthetic," found in his system was as high as 3,540 nanograms per milliliter; "levels for general anesthesia are typically in the 1,000-6,000 ng/ml ranges," the report notes. Though Perry was "reported to be receiving ketamine infusion therapy for depression and anxiety," according to the report, "the ketamine in his system at death could not be from that infusion therapy, since ketamine’s half-life is 3 to 4 hours, or less." The method of intake is unclear. "At the high levels of ketamine found in his postmortem blood specimens, the main lethal effects would be from both cardiovascular overstimulation and respiratory depression," the report reads. "Drowning contributes due to the likelihood of submersion into the pool as he lapsed into unconsciousness; coronary artery disease contributes due to exacerbation of ketamine induced myocardial effects of the heart." Buprenorphine, which was present at "therapeutic" levels, is also listed as a contributing factor due to "additive respiratory effects when present with high levels of ketamine." There were non-toxic levels of lorazepam, too. What are the effects of ketamine? Ketamine hydrochloride, AKA ketamine, is a controlled substance approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to induce and maintain general anesthesia via intravenous or intramuscular injection. It's not approved by the FDA for psychiatric treatment. "FDA has not established safe or effective dosing of ketamine for any psychiatric indication because ketamine has not been approved for these uses," reads an October post on the agency's website. "These factors may place the patient at risk for serious adverse events, misuse, and abuse." It "distorts the perception of sight and sound and makes the user feel disconnected," which is why it's referred to as a dissociative anesthetic hallucinogen, according to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. The DEA's website says that "an overdose can cause unconsciousness and dangerously slowed breathing." Ketamine first caught interest as a counterculture drug in the 1970s and re-emerged as a club drug "Special K" in the 2000s. Dr. Nolan Williams, an associate professor in Stanford University's Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, previously told USA TODAY that it's unclear exactly how ketamine affects mood because "there are many mechanisms happening at once." But rather than affecting dopamine or serotonin, neuroscience studies show that ketamine instead targets a neurotransmitter called glutamate, which promotes the brain's ability to create lasting, new lifestyle patterns. Some experts have also speculated that the dissociative experience of a ketamine "trip" may be responsible for reducing depressive symptoms. Though there's no evidence that the trip directly affects mood, Dr. Alexander Papp, a board-certified psychiatrist and assistant clinical professor at UC San Diego, says some of his patients have credited ketamine's psychedelic properties to their improved outlook on life. Was Matthew Perry sober? Perry was open about his battle with alcohol and drugs, which he chronicled in his 2022 memoir "Friends, Lovers and the Big Terrible Thing." He wrote with candor and compassion and showed his dedication to continue fighting a near-fatal battle. At the time of his death, "Alcohol, methamphetamine, cocaine, heroin, PCP, fentanyl were not detected," according to Perry's autopsy. Jennifer Aniston said recently that Perry was doing well in his personal life before his death, she told Variety. "He was happy. He was healthy," Aniston said. "He had quit smoking. He was getting in shape. He was happy — that's all I know. I was literally texting with him that morning, funny Matty. He was not in pain. He wasn't struggling." Contributing: Jenna Ryu, Edward Segarra, USA TODAY


--- ['Friends' star Matthew Perry dead at 54, found in hot tub at L.A. home] ---
‘Friends’ star Matthew Perry dead at 54, found in hot tub at L.A. home - Share via Authorities responded around 4 p.m. to his home, where he was discovered unresponsive. There was no sign of foul play. - Share via “Friends” star Matthew Perry was found dead Saturday in a hot tub at his Los Angeles home, law enforcement sources said. He was 54. Authorities responded about 4 p.m. to his home, where he was discovered unresponsive. The sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation was ongoing, did not cite a cause of death. No drugs were found at the scene, sources said, but a source told The Times prescription medications were recovered at the home and hence toxicology will be part of the investigation. A representative for Perry did not immediately respond to The Times’ request for comment. Los Angeles Police Capt. Scot Williams, who leads the Robbery Homicide Division that is investigating Perry’s death, said the “cause of death may not be known for some time, but at this point foul play is not suspected.” The cause of death will be determined by the Los Angeles County coroner’s office, which on Sunday officially deferred its finding pending further testing. “We are devastated by the passing of our dear friend Matthew Perry,” Warner Bros. Television Group, which produced “Friends,” said in a statement to The Times. “Matthew was an incredibly gifted actor and an indelible part of the Warner Bros. Television Group family. The impact of his comedic genius was felt around the world, and his legacy will live on in the hearts of so many. This is a heartbreaking day, and we send our love to his family, his loved ones, and all of his devoted fans.” “We are incredibly saddened by the too soon passing of Matthew Perry,” NBC, which aired the series for all 10 seasons, said in its own statement to The Times. “He brought so much joy to hundreds of millions of people around the world with his pitch perfect comedic timing and wry wit. His legacy will live on through countless generations.” Hollywood is mourning the death of ‘Friends’ star Matthew Perry, who was found dead Saturday in a hot tub at his L.A. home. Saturday evening yellow-and-black LAPD crime scene tape blocked off the entrance to Blue Sail Drive, a tony street just off the Pacific Coast Highway at the crest of a hill with sweeping views of the Pacific Ocean. Shortly after 7 p.m., as multiple helicopters whirred overhead, Perry’s mother, Suzanne, and her husband, broadcaster Keith Morrison, arrived on the scene. Morrison declined to comment. An LAPD officer at the scene said he had no information and that he did not know when any would be forthcoming. Peter, a neighbor of Perry’s on Bluesail Drive who declined to give his last name Saturday evening, said he only spoke to the actor once, for five minutes, and that he was “very pleasant” and a “nice guy.” “It’s shocking,” Peter said as he waited for the LAPD, who had barred journalists from passing the police tape, to approve him for entry. “He’s been redoing this house forever and he seemed fine. It’s very sad.” Leo, another neighbor who declined to give his full name, said he was home when an ambulance arrived at Perry’s house Saturday afternoon. He declined to say whether paramedics tried to revive Perry or if a body was removed from the premises. “I was shocked,” he said. “It was very disturbing and sad after all these years.” Perry was one of his favorite actors, Leo said, and the funniest member of the “Friends” cast. “I encountered him once and he was very, very friendly. More so than I thought,” Leo said. “It’s definitely a tragedy, especially at such a young age,” he added. “I was very heartbroken to see what happened.” Perry, the son of actor John Bennett Perry and Suzanne Marie Langford, onetime press secretary of Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, was born in 1969 and grew up between Canada and Los Angeles after his parents separated when Perry was 1. He got his start as a child actor, landing guest spots on “Charles in Charge” and “Beverly Hills 90210” and playing opposite River Phoenix in the film “A Night in the Life of Jimmy Reardon” in the 1980s and early 1990s. But his big break came when he was cast in “Friends” — originally titled “Friends Like Us” — a sitcom about six single New Yorkers navigating adulthood that premiered on NBC in 1994. The series soon became a juggernaut, the anchor of the network’s vaunted Thursday-night “Must-See TV” lineup, and turned Perry and his castmates Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc and David Schwimmer into mega-stars almost overnight. At its high-water mark — for a 1996 Super Bowl episode and the 2004 series finale — the series could notch more than 50 million live viewers; by its end, cast members were earning more than $1 million an episode. As Chandler Bing, the handsome, wisecracking roommate of LeBlanc’s Joey Tribbiani and, later, love interest of Cox’s fastidious Monica Geller, Perry distinguished himself in a crackling ensemble cast. With his dry delivery he created a catchphrase with a mere turn of inflection, based on banter he’d shared with childhood friends: Could he be any more Chandler? Soon, he was attached to major stars like Julia Roberts and appearing in prominent films such as 1997 rom-com “Fools Rush In,” opposite Salma Hayek, and 2000 ensemble mob comedy “The Whole Nine Yards” with Bruce Willis. His potshot at Keanu Reeves was “a mean thing,” the “Friends” star says at the Festival of Books, where he delves into his brutally revealing memoir. There was a dark side to the life of one of television’s most beloved funnymen, however. In his 2022 memoir, “Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing,” Perry recounted his lifelong struggle with addiction to alcohol and opioids. He wrote that he had his first drink at 14, but didn’t recognize the signs of alcoholism until 21. Since then, he estimated, he’d spent more than $7 million on efforts to get sober, including multiple stints in rehab. His substance abuse also led to a number of serious health issues, including a five-month hospitalization in 2018 following a colon rupture that left him, he wrote, with a 2% chance to live through the night. And it was fueled, he acknowledged during a “Friends” reunion special in 2021, by the pressure to land the joke in front of a live studio audience night after night. “Nobody wanted to be famous more than me,” Perry told The Times in April, discussing “Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing” at the Festival of Books. “I was convinced it was the answer. I was 25, it was the second year of ‘Friends,’ and eight months into it, I realized the American dream is not making me happy, not filling the holes in my life. I couldn’t get enough attention. … Fame does not do what you think it’s going to do. It was all a trick.” Perry was remembered on Saturday by friends and collaborators such as Selma Blair, Paget Brewster, Morgan Fairchild and Mira Sorvino as a singular comic talent and kind soul. Perry’s “Friends” co-star Maggie Wheeler, who played his on-again, off-again girlfriend Janice on the hit show, shared a sweet tribute on Instagram. “What a loss. The world will miss you Mathew Perry,” she wrote. “The joy you brought to so many in your too short lifetime will live on. I feel so very blessed by every creative moment we shared.” He was also memorialized by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Pierre’s son and one of Perry’s childhood friends. “Matthew Perry’s passing is shocking and saddening,” Trudeau wrote on X. “I’ll never forget the schoolyard games we used to play, and I know people around the world are never going to forget the joy he brought them. Thanks for all the laughs, Matthew. You were loved — and you will be missed.” British singer-songwriter Adele paid tribute to the ‘Friends’ actor, who died Saturday at 54, during her residency at Caesars Palace. Though Perry estimated he had relapsed “60 or 70 times” since first getting sober in 2001, he maintained a steady presence on American television, playing key parts in backstage dramedy “Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip” and therapy sitcom “Go On,” and making a steady stream of guest appearances on acclaimed shows such as “The West Wing” and “The Good Wife.” Since his near-death experience in 2018, Perry had found solace in friends, frequent games of pickleball and, especially, writing. Though producing “Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing” had forced him to relive his darkest moments, it also connected him to “all the sufferers out there”: “I had a story to tell, a story that could really help people,” he wrote. “And helping others had become the answer for me.” Indeed, for all his success as an actor and, more recently, as a bestselling memoirist, Perry told The Times in April that his work was not the center of what he hoped would be his legacy. Asked how he’d like to be remembered, he said: “As a guy who lived life, loved well, lived well and helped people. That running into me was a good thing, and not something bad.” Staff writer Meg James and deputy editor Maane Khatchatourian contributed to this report.
