=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Taddei Tondo]
... your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists ... ^ "Sketch of Michelangelo's Taddei tondo, c. 1823 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taddei_Tondo

[Taddei Tondo - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Shortly after its arrival in England, the tondo was sketched by Wilkie, who wrote to Beaumont "your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Taddei-Tondo

[ART OF MICHELANGELO Taddei Tondo VIRGIN Saint John ...]
Taddei Tondo ~ Charming bas-relief noted ... your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists ...
URL: https://www.ebay.com/itm/353743317392

[Sketch of Michelangelo's Taddei tondo, - Royal Academy of Arts]
He wrote enthusiastically to Beaumont on January 12th 1823: 'Your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists. It is indeed a great addition to our stock of art, and is the only work that has appeared in this northern latitude to justify the great reputation of its author.
URL: https://www.royalacademy.org.uk/art-artists/work-of-art/sketch-of-michelangelos-taddei-tondo

[Taddei Tondo - Wikiwand]
Shortly after its arrival in England, Michelangelo's tondo was sketched by Wilkie, who wrote to Beaumont "your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Taddei_Tondo


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Taddei Tondo] ---
The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St. John is an unfinished marble relief tondo (circular composition) of the Madonna and Child and the infant Saint John the Baptist, by the Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. It is in the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London. The tondo is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain. A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique, the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch".


--- [Taddei Tondo - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Year c. 1504–05 Genre Kinetic art | Created 1504–1506 | | Dimensions diameter 106.8 centimetres (42.0 in), depth of carving 7.5 centimetres (3.0 in) to 22 centimetres (8.7 in) Similar Michelangelo artwork, Relief, Renaissance artwork | The Taddei Tondo or The Virgin and Child with the Infant St John is a marble relief tondo (circular composition) by Italian Renaissance artist Michelangelo Buonarroti. Part of the permanent collection of the Royal Academy of Arts in London, it is the only marble sculpture by Michelangelo in Great Britain. A "perfect demonstration" of his carving technique, the work delivers a "powerful emotional and narrative punch". Contents Physical history The tondo dates to Michelangelo's time in Florence before his move to Rome in 1505. According to Vasari, while working on his David, "also at this time he blocked out but did not finish two marble tondi, one for Taddeo Taddei, today in his house, and for Bartolomeo Pitti he began another... which works were considered outstanding and marvellous". To the lower right of the back of the relief is a ligature combining the letters L and A, probably the mark of another carver or dealer, and most likely the initials of Lapo d'Antonio di Lapo, active at the Opera del Duomo and for a short period in 1506/7 one of Michelangelo's assistants. A chisel blow on the reverse seemingly from this earlier phase resulted in a hairline crack in the face of the Virgin that may only have become apparent as carving progressed. It is uncertain whether Michelangelo, known for his concern for his materials, was constrained by a shortage of ready alternatives or more accepting of flaws and confident in his ability to work round them after his success with the damaged block for David. The missing segment to the bottom right may be a result of an excess of his celebrated "direct attack", while the five holes in the outer rim are variously dated and were intended for fixings. In 1568 the tondo was still in the Palazzo Taddei, but by 1678 the family had moved to a new address near San Remigio. At an unknown date the tondo was taken to Rome, where it was acquired from Jean-Baptiste Wicar by Sir George Beaumont in 1822. Initially hung at Beaumont's house in Grosvenor Square, it was bequeathed to the Academy in 1830 and installed at Somerset House, before moving with the Academy to the east wing of the new National Gallery building in 1836, where it remained until the Academy relocated to Burlington House in 1868. It has been housed and displayed in various locations there ever since, except for an exhibition at the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1960. The discovery of the hairline crack running through the upper half of the marble contributed to the decision in 1989 to provide a permanent home for the tondo. Subsequently the tondo was cleaned with dichloromethane swabs and clay poultices to remove residues of nineteenth-century plaster casts and their oil-based release agents, packing materials, traces of beeswax and pine resin adhesives, and other surface accretions. The tondo was left unwaxed and no other coating applied, as the work is not "finished" and was not originally polished. Since the opening of the Sackler Wing of Galleries in 1991, the tondo has been on free public display in a purpose-built area on the top floor, positioned for reasons of preventive conservation behind protective glass, to combat the effects of air pollution and the possibility of vandalism. Description The tondo as a format for painting and relief sculpture was a quintessential product of the Florentine Renaissance. For a century from around 1430 all the leading artists, including Filippo Lippi, Botticelli, Luca Signorelli, Piero di Cosimo, Fra Bartolomeo, Andrea del Sarto, Leonardo da Vinci (in a lost work), and Raphael, painted tondi. In the same few years that Michelangelo executed his only panel painting documented in contemporary sources, the Doni tondo, he sculpted the Pitti and Taddei tondi - but he did not return to the form. The tondo depicts a seated Virgin Mary with the baby Jesus dynamically sprawled across her lap, turning and looking back over his right shoulder towards the infant Saint John the Baptist, who stands before him looking down and holding a fluttering bird. Compositionally, the eye of the viewer is drawn diagonally along Christ's body, back up that of his mother, with her gaze across to John, and from his face back to Christ. John, patron saint of Florence, with his attribute of a baptismal bowl, crosses his arms, perhaps in allusion to the cross. Most likely it is a goldfinch not a dove that he holds - Christian symbolism sees in this bird a representation of the Passion - the piece of marble below might then have been intended as a crown of thorns. Executed with only a point and claw chisel, often driven hard and with great energy, the combination helps create a sense of "surface unity" unbroken by the use of the drill. The Christ child in full relief is highly finished, the shallower relief of the Virgin finished to a lesser degree, St. John more so again, while the background is roughly executed. These marked variations in texture help establish the relative status of the three figures while creating a sense of compositional depth all the greater for not being more conventionally "finished". Many of Michelangelo's works are unfinished. According to nineteenth-century French sculptor and critic Eugène Guillaume, Michelangelo's "non finito" was "one of the master's expressive devices in his quest for infinite suggestiveness". Reception and influence Taddeo Taddei was patron and friend of Raphael, who studied and reworked the tondo in two drawings, the versi of The Storming of Perugia in the Louvre and of compositional studies for the Madonna del Prato at Chatsworth House. Raphael returned to the twisting body of the Christ child stretching across his mother's lap in the Bridgewater Madonna. Shortly after its arrival in England, the tondo was sketched by Wilkie, who wrote to Beaumont "your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists. It is indeed a great addition to our stock of art, and is the only work that has appeared in this northern latitude to justify the great reputation of its author". Cockerell noted in his diary how "the subject seems growing from the marble & emerging into life. It assumes by degrees its shape, features from an unformed mass, as it were you trace & watch its birth from the sculptor's mind". Shortly after its arrival at the Royal Academy, the tondo was sketched by Constable, who published a letter in the Athenaeum of 3 July 1830 praising the way it was lit, "showing the more finished parts to advantage, and causing those less perfect to become masses of shadow, having at a distance all the effect of a rich picture in chiaroscuro". With its differing degrees of finish the tondo is an outstanding technical study piece; plaster casts may be found at the Victoria and Albert Museum and Fitzwilliam Museum.


--- [ART OF MICHELANGELO Taddei Tondo VIRGIN Saint John ...] ---
SAVE $25 FOR EVERY $100See all eligible items and terms Picture 1 of 3 Gallery Picture 1 of 3 ART OF MICHELANGELO Taddei Tondo VIRGIN Saint John CHRISTIAN Silver Medal i96060 US $718.20or Best Offer Was US $1,197.00 (40% off) Condition: Sale ends in: 1d 5h Oops! Looks like we're having trouble connecting to our server. Refresh your browser window to try again. Shipping: US $52.85 eBay International Shipping. Located in: Rego Park, NY, United States Save on combined shipping Import fees: Import fees may apply on delivery Delivery: Estimated between Wed, Apr 15 and Mon, May 4 to 110008 Returns: 30 days returns. Buyer pays for return shipping. If you use an eBay shipping label, it will be deducted from your refund amount. Payments: Shop with confidence About this item Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing. eBay item number:353743317392 Item specifics - Country of Origin - Unknown - Type - Medal - Composition - Silver Item description from the seller Seller feedback (39,851) - r***m (320)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseI believe this is one of the truly exceptional sellers. It’s clear from the large selection of rare and rather valuable items and the thorough descriptions of each one. Every coin comes with authenticity guarantee and has its own certificate, and it’s obvious the seller is a well-known expert in the field. Communication with him is excellent, and the order arrived very quickly, perfectly packed. I’m very satisfied with my purchase and highly recommend this seller. Thank you!1644AD CHINESE Qing Dynasty Genuine Antique SHI ZU Cash Coin of CHINA i102032 (#234480334625) - n***s (1287)- Feedback left by buyer.Past yearVerified purchaseI couldn't be happier! Outstanding seller! I have bought several biblical era coins from Ilya. The coins are exactly as described and pictured. The certificates of authenticity include a detailed historical description. The plastic case that the NGC graded coins come in are great for display. They are shipped quickly and packaged well. Exceptional communication. If you are looking for an actual artifact from the time of Jesus, whether for yourself or for a gift, these authentic coins are it.PONTIUS PILATE Tiberius Jerusalem JESUS CHRIST TRIAL Old Roman Coin NGC i106099 (#325049787750) - a***m (138)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseThis is my second purchase from this great seller ! Coins are always packaged very well and the seller will work with you on a price that works for you. Also is always quick to ship ! I will be back I the future! Thanks again for a great experience on eBay !80BC Biblical Jerusalem Widow's Mite ALEXANDER JANNAEUS Coin HENDIN 1153 i120792 (#355645223697) - s***d (495)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchase5-day ($4.50) delivery, well packaged. Exactly as described, near perfect finish. Largest coin in my collection. Impressive, unique design. First-time purchase from this seller… smooth transaction and prompt shipping. Look here for ancient items.1973 BARBADOS Huge 4.2cm Genuine Proof Silver 10 Dollars Coin w NEPTUNE i77448 (#323785006094) - t***u (1451)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseProfessional, knowledgeable seller. Fast shipping, well packaged and great communication. As described. Thanks!!!103BC Ancient Bible Greek JERUSALEM Coin JEWISH Kng JANNAEUS HENDIN 1145 i120014 (#355577391579) - t***3 (124)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseFast shipping and packaging was great coin better than described for the value. Would buy again from seller and highly recommend! - g***3 (114)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseFast shipping, good package, same as described, acceptable price, nice seller1747 NETHERLANDS King William IV Unified Provinces w Lion Genuine Medal i75722 (#352626987241) - 1***b (263)- Feedback left by buyer.Past 6 monthsVerified purchaseSeller shipped quickly and the coin was packaged nicely with a nice little informational slip as well as a certificate of authenticity. Beautiful coin for the price and was exactly as pictured! Thanks so much!CHALKIS in EUBOEA 290BC Hera Eagle Serpent Authentic Ancient Greek Coin i48793 (#231513129383) More to explore : - Silver Numismatic Medals, - U.S. Mint Silver Numismatic Medals, - Numismatic Medals, - Bronze Numismatic Medals, - Silver British Virgin Islands Coins, - Gold Numismatic Medals, - Silver 2015 British Virgin Islands Coins, - Circulated Silver British Virgin Islands Coins, - Pewter Numismatic Medals, - Uncirculated Silver 1973 British Virgin Islands Coins


--- [Sketch of Michelangelo's Taddei tondo, - Royal Academy of Arts] ---
Sir David Wilkie RA (1785 - 1841) RA Collection: Art A pen and ink sketch of the 'Taddei tondo' by Michelangelo, in the Royal Academy collection. Wilkie sketched the tondo quite rapidly but his drawing nevertheless clearly depicts the figures of the Virgin and Child on the right and the infant St. John on the left. Unlike John Constable, who made a similar sketch of this sculpture in 1830, Wilkie used dark shading to show greater depth of relief in certain areas of the sculpture and, in the background, his hatched lines hint at the areas of rough stone left unfinished by Michelangelo. The famous sculpture was bequeathed to the Royal Academy by Sir George Beaumont and delivered to Somerset House at the end of June 1830. Beaumont acquired the Taddei tondo in Italy in 1822 and subsequently brought it to England where numerous artists and other guests had the opportunity to view it in the picture gallery of his house at No. 34 Grosvenor Square. Wilkie probably made this sketch soon after he first saw the sculpture. He wrote enthusiastically to Beaumont on January 12th 1823: 'Your important acquisition of the basso-relievo of Michael Angelo is still the chief talk of all our artists. It is indeed a great addition to our stock of art, and is the only work that has appeared in this northern latitude to justify the great reputation of its author. The sight of this fine work of art has rekindled in me a strong wish to make a visit to the Continent before long, with a view to going to Italy'. Wilkie's biographer Allan Cunningham added, 'I remember with what delight Sir George Beaumont exhibited this all but divine work, and spoke of the influence which it exercised over his friend Wilkie'. Cunningham is referring to the fact that the artist soon afterwards embarked on a tour of Italy and the Continent in 1825. Further reading: A. Cunningham, The Life of Sir David Wilkie; with his journals, tours, and critical remarks on works of art; and a selection from his correspondence, London1843, Vol. II, pp. 97-8 Sidney C. Hutchison, The History of the Royal Academy 1768–1968, London 1968, p. 97 The Morning Herald, 2 June 1830 c. 130 mm x 168 mm


--- [Taddei Tondo - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...
