=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Palm Tree, New York]
Palm Tree is a town coterminous with the village of Kiryas Joel, inhabited by the Satmar Hasidic community, and the municipality to which it belonged, ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palm_Tree,_New_York

[Cuomo signs most aggressive climate change legislation in the nation]
Jul 18, 2019 · During a ceremony at Fordham Law School in Manhattan, Gov. Andrew Cuomo signed the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act, with a goal of achieving a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. Joined by former Vice President Al Gore, Cuomo called the legislation one of the the most consequential achievements of his administration.
URL: https://www.nysenate.gov/newsroom/in-the-news/2019/todd-kaminsky/cuomo-signs-most-aggressive-climate-change-legislation

[Cuomo signs bill to start Town of Palm Tree in 2019]
Jul 2, 2018 — Gov. Andrew Cuomo signed a bill on Sunday that will bring New York's first new town in 37 years into existence in January, triggering elections this fall.
URL: https://www.recordonline.com/story/news/2018/07/02/cuomo-signs-bill-to-start/11612777007/

[Andrew Cuomo - Wikipedia]
Andrew Mark Cuomo was born on December 6, 1957, [22] in the New York City borough of Queens to lawyer and later governor of New York Mario Cuomo and Matilda (née Raffa). [23] He grew up in the neighborhood of Holliswood. [24] Cuomo's parents were both of Italian descent, tracing their ancestry back to Southern Italy. His paternal grandparents were from Nocera Inferiore and Tramonti in the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Cuomo

[The top 5 moments from the NYC mayoral debate]
Oct 17, 2025 — Here are the top five moments from Thursday's mayoral debate on WNBC between Zohran Mamdani, Curtis Sliwa and Andrew Cuomo.
URL: https://nypost.com/2025/10/17/us-news/nyc-mayoral-debates-top-5-moments/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Palm Tree, New York] ---
Palm Tree is a town coterminous with the village of Kiryas Joel, inhabited by the Satmar Hasidic community, and the municipality to which it belonged, Monroe. The population of Palm Tree was 32,954 at the 2020 census.


--- [Cuomo signs most aggressive climate change legislation in the nation] ---
Cuomo signs most aggressive climate change legislation in the nation During a ceremony at Fordham Law School in Manhattan, Gov. Andrew Cuomo signed the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act, with a goal of achieving a carbon-neutral economy by 2050. Joined by former Vice President Al Gore, Cuomo called the legislation one of the the most consequential achievements of his administration. “To deny climate change is to deny reality,” Cuomo said, making several references to the Trump Administration’s environmental policies. “Trump ignores climate change because it is not politically convenient to acknowledge it. This will be the most aggressive climate law in the United States of America” The legislation (S.6599/A.8429) was sponsored by Sen. Todd Kaminsky and Assemblyman Steve Englebright, who both chair the Environmental Conservation Committees in their respective houses. The legislation includes aggressive mandates to require that New York achieves a 40-percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and an 85-percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions — with 100 percent carbon neutrality — by 2050. In addition, the agreement codifies the governor’s goals to achieve 70 percent emissions-free electricity by 2030 and 100 percent emissions-free electricity by 2040. The 2050 mandate exceeds reductions proposed under the Paris Climate Agreement and stands as the most comprehensive and aggressive climate bill ever enacted at the state level. “This is the most well-crafted [environmental] legislation in the country,” Gore said. “This will set a new bar.” To achieve these goals, the legislation requires that the state power grid procure at least nine gigawatts of offshore wind electric generation by 2035, six gigawatts of distributed photovoltaic solar generation by 2025, three gigawatts of statewide energy storage capacity by 2030, and 185 trillion BTUs of end-use energy savings below the 2025 energy use forecast. To get the ball rolling, the state recently selected two companies to build two offshore wind farms for a combined total of 1,700 megawatts of clean energy – enough to power one million homes. The first is the Sunrise Wind project which will be constructed 30 miles east of Long Island and generate 880 megawatts for Long Island. The second is the Empire Wind project, located 14 miles southeast of Manhattan, which will provide 816 megawatts for New York City. The governor said during his remarks Thursday that $287 million will be invested to construct manufacturing, service and port facilities in Port Jefferson, Brooklyn, Staten Island and the Capital Region. “These projects will help make New York the hub for this industry,” Cuomo said. In addition, New York will provide $20 million to develop a wind training program at several SUNY campuses. The projects are expected to generate $3.2 billion in economic activity, and 1,600 construction and permanent jobs. Port upgrades will begin in 2020. Construction of the onshore facilities will begin in 2022. Offshore construction will begin in late 2022 and the projects will be completed by 2024, Cuomo said. The legislation also creates a new advisory council, comprised of experts in agriculture, housing, energy, manufacturing industry, transportation and land use — among other sectors — to help roll out the legislation’s provisions. The bill passed the Legislature in the final days of session and was delivered to the governor on July 16. “We still have a chance,” Gore said. “We have it within our power to grab hold of this crisis and save the future. We need leadership. We need new policies. “It’s OK to change the light bulbs, but it’s better to change the laws.”


--- [Cuomo signs bill to start Town of Palm Tree in 2019] ---
Cuomo signs bill to start Town of Palm Tree in 2019 Gov. Andrew Cuomo signed a bill on Sunday that will bring New York's first new town in 37 years into existence in January, triggering elections this fall for the Town of Palm Tree's first governing board. The new town, consisting of the Village of Kiryas Joel and 56 additional acres carved out of the Town of Monroe, will have 10 elected positions in all on the ballot in November, including a supervisor, four councilmen and two justices to preside over a town court. Candidates for those jobs must file petitions by July 12 to run on party ballot lines or by Aug. 21 to run as independents. The legislation Cuomo signed enables the new town to take effect one year earlier than state law otherwise would have allowed. Monroe voters overwhelmingly approved Kiryas Joel's secession in a referendum in November, ending a four-year conflict over efforts to expand Kiryas Joel through annexation. In a statement on Monday, Kiryas Joel Administrator Gedalye Szegedin hailed the new town as a triumph of diplomacy, referring to the legal settlement village officials reached last year with leaders of the United Monroe citizens group to resolve two court cases over the annexation push. “From the beginning, our only goal for creating the Town of Palm Tree was to establish a solid foundation for a lasting peace between the residents of KJ and the residents of Monroe, by giving both communities independence from the other without any political interference," he said. "Today we have finally achieved that goal and have shown that diplomacy and compromise produce better results than acrimony and division.” The bill gives the newly elected Palm Tree Town Board - a supervisor and four councilmen - until Jan. 31 to adopt a budget for the remainder of 2019. The town will then distribute its first tax bills to property owners, who will no longer pay Town of Monroe taxes. Officially, the terms of office for the first town board will be one year for the supervisor and two councilmen, and three years for the other two councilmen. But the governance structure could change after Palm Tree's first year because Kiryas Joel officials plan to make the town and village coterminous and hold a referendum in November 2019 to establish a single governing body - either a town board or a village board. Kiryas Joel would match its borders with Palm Tree's by annexing the 56 acres of the future town that are not already in the village. Kiryas Joel's separation from Monroe means its large voting blocs will no longer dominate Monroe elections. The future Palm Tree currently has 9,838 enrolled voters, and the remainder of Monroe has 12,403 voters, according to the Orange County Board of Elections. cmckenna@th-record.com


--- [Andrew Cuomo - Wikipedia] ---
Andrew Mark Cuomo ( KWOH-moh; born December 6, 1957) is an American lawyer and politician who served as the 56th governor of New York from 2011 until his resignation in 2021 following numerous sexual misconduct allegations. A member of the Democratic Party, he is a son of former governor Mario Cuomo, and ran as an independent for mayor of New York City in the 2025 mayoral election.
Born into the prominent Cuomo family and raised in Queens, Cuomo graduated from Fordham University with a Bachelor of Arts and earned a Juris Doctor from Albany Law School. He began his career as the campaign manager for his father in the 1982 New York gubernatorial election. Later, Cuomo entered the private practice of law and chaired the New York City Homeless Commission from 1990 to 1993. Cuomo then served in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development as assistant secretary from 1993 to 1997 and as secretary from 1997 to 2001 under President Bill Clinton. Cuomo was elected New York attorney general in 2006 after a failed bid to win the Democratic primary in the 2002 New York gubernatorial election.
Cuomo won the 2010 New York gubernatorial election with over 60 percent of the vote. He was re-elected in 2014 and 2018. During his governorship, Cuomo signed legislation to legalize same-sex marriage and the recreational use of cannabis. His administration oversaw the construction of the Second Avenue Subway, the Moynihan Train Hall, and the reconstruction of the Tappan Zee Bridge and LaGuardia Airport. He also decommissioned the Indian Point nuclear plant, which led to an uptick in greenhouse gas emissions. In response to the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting and the 2012 Webster shooting, Cuomo signed the NY SAFE Act of 2013, the strictest gun control law in the United States. He also delivered Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act; a 2011 tax law that raised taxes for the wealthy and lowered taxes for the middle class; a 12-week paid family leave law; and a gradual increase of the state's minimum wage to $15 per hour.
Cuomo was initially lauded locally and nationally for his administration's response to the COVID-19 pandemic in New York, but he faced criticism and a federal investigation for ordering nursing homes to admit patients from hospitals without testing them for COVID-19. The order was blamed for a large number of nursing home deaths, and the administration's subsequent actions were scrutinized in a number of reports and investigations. A January 2021 report by state attorney general Letitia James found that the Cuomo administration had undercounted COVID-19-related deaths at nursing homes by as much as 50%. As of May 2025, the U.S. Department of Justice has an open investigation into Cuomo's testimony on his involvement with a questionable report used to combat criticism of his handling of the pandemic.
Beginning in late 2020, Cuomo faced numerous allegations of sexual misconduct. A report from independent investigators commissioned by James found in August 2021 that Cuomo sexually harassed at least 11 women from 2013 through 2020 and retaliated against victims who made complaints about his conduct. Following the release of James's report, there were widespread calls for Cuomo's resignation, including from President Joe Biden. On August 23, 2021, in the midst of an impeachment investigation against him, Cuomo resigned from office. After his resignation, criminal investigations from the district attorney offices for New York County, Nassau County, Westchester County, and Oswego County were closed without charges being filed. A criminal charge in Albany County was dropped in 2022.
In 2025, Cuomo mounted a political comeback bid and ran for mayor of New York City in that year's mayoral election. Despite leading in most Democratic primary polls, he lost to Zohran Mamdani in what was considered a major upset. He continued his run as an independent, then lost again to Mamdani in the general election.


--- [The top 5 moments from the NYC mayoral debate] ---
The top 5 moments from the NYC mayoral debate: Attacks, jibes and wild stories The first mayoral general election debate was two hours filled with attacks, jibes and wild stories as Zohran Mamdani, Curtis Sliwa and Andrew Cuomo went all out to make their mark. The three candidates in the Nov. 4 election frequently talked over each other — and a few times Sliwa, the Republican candidate, also droned on so much that the moderators at 30 Rockefeller Center cut him off. Sliwa and Cuomo, the former governor running as an independent, aimed much of their ire at the front-runner, Democratic nominee Mamdani — but weren’t always in sync with their attacks. Here are the top five moments from Thursday’s debate on WNBC: 1. “He literally never had a job.” Cuomo wasted no time ripping into Mamdani. Within minutes of the start of the debate, he jabbed at the Queens assemblyman’s lack of leadership experience. “He literally has never had a job,” Cuomo said. “On his resume, it says he interned for his mother. This is not a job for a first-timer,” Cuomo said, comparing the 33-year-old assemblyman to his decades-long career in elected politics. “If you don’t know what you’re doing people could die,” he continued. Mamdani, meanwhile, was quick to point out the death toll during the COVID-19 pandemic, when Cuomo was governor. “If we have a health pandemic, then why would New Yorkers turn back to the governor who sent seniors to their deaths in nursing homes?,” he retorted. 2. “The johns, the madames and the pimps” Mamdani’s stance on prostitution, one of the most shocking aspects of the democratic socialists’ agenda, was bound to be one of the most fiery points of the evening, and did not disappoint. During a separate line of questions on quality of life, Sliwa and Cuomo started digging into Mamdani, accusing him of wanting to let hookers run free for hire. “The assemblyman is a mini-me-BDB, he’s Bill de Blasio-lite,” Cuomo said, accusing Mamdani of adopting the former mayor’s direction to NYPD not to arrest prostitutes. “I am not nor have I ever called for the legalization of prostitution,” Mamdani claimed, digging into Cuomo. Mamdani wants to decriminalize sex work and co-sponsors a bill in Albany that would do so. “If you are happy with what’s happening on Roosevelt Avenue then you should vote for Andrew Cuomo because his policy is to continue the exact same ones we’ve seen under [current mayor] Eric Adams,” Mamdani added. Cuomo has advocated for flooding cops to areas like notorious avenue of sweethearts, and prosecuting prostitutes. “You have to enforce the law, it’s illegal.” Sliwa stuck out a middle ground, advocating for focusing on going after the pimps and men hiring prostitutes instead of the women themselves. “You let everybody know about the johns. The madams and the pimps need to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” Sliwa said. 3. Nobody likes Kathy None of the candidates were willing to publicly back Gov. Kathy Hochul’s reelection bid next year. “That’s a decision that should be made after this general election,” Mamdani said, seeming to defend his newfound benefactor in Hochul. The upstate governor delivered a shocking and controversial endorsement of the Queens pol last month. Little love is lost between Hochul and Cuomo, who it has emerged had wanted to boot Hochul as his running mate had he followed through with a reelection campaign in 2022. “You have to know who’s running,” Cuomo said when prodded by the moderator for an answer before shifting the question back to Mamdani. Start your day with all you need to know Morning Report delivers the latest news, videos, photos and more. Thanks for signing up! “Why don’t you endorse her?” Cuomo asked. 4. Mamdani can’t explain how to pay for his freebies Put on the spot and asked to explain how the city would be able to afford his handout-packed “affordability” agenda, Mamdani once again fell on a word salad. “Look, a lot of people have called even my campaign a non-starter when we first again and now I stand before you proud to be the Democratic nominee who got the most votes in city primary history,” the assemblyman said, dodging the question. Mamdani’s handouts include free buses, universal child care and freezing rent for stabilized units. “We have also put forward a plan to save money here in New York City,” he said, referring to his “plan B” if Hochul won’t allow him to raise taxes. 5. Unexpected parade controversy A seemingly innocuous question about whether the candidates would boycott any parades turned into more controversy. “No, I wouldn’t unless they discriminated,” Cuomo said succinctly. “I haven’t thought much about parades to be honest with you,” Mamdani said before Sliwa jumped in to press him. “Would you protect the Christopher Columbus statues that exist here in the city?” Sliwa asked, bringing up how Mamdani once gave the middle finger to a monument to Columbus in Astoria. “My focus is on affordability. I’m not thinking about statues,” Mamdani said. “Disgraziato!” Cuomo chimed in, following Sliwa’s lead. The moderators quickly pivoted to asking the candidates about their preferred bagel order before wrapping the two-hour debate. Bonus: Sliwa’s outbursts Even without his iconic red “Guardian Angels” beret, GOP mayoral candidate Curtis Sliwa was his usual self, injecting wild, dated anecdotes and his own memorable one-liners into the mix as well as some hard-hitting zingers aimed seemingly indiscriminately at all sides. “I knew Mario Cuomo, you’re no Mario Cuomo,” Sliwa told Cuomo of his late father, also a former governor. Sliwa also compared the state parole board under Andrew Cuomo having released 43 cop killers, compared to none under his father. The Guardian Angel leader did not disappoint throughout the debate, with other noteworthy moments including: - Saying he avoids taking yellow cabs because he was shot by the mob in the back of one in the 1970s - Confirming he smoked medical marijuana as he dealt with Crohn’s disease after that yellow cab shooting - Starting to respond to a question directed to Cuomo - Name-dropping his ex-wife, Queens DA Melinda Katz - Naming former Republican Governor George Pataki when asked his favorite president
