=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Louise Antony - Wikipedia]
Louise M. Antony is an American philosopher who is professor of philosophy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She specializes in epistemology and feminist theory.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louise_Antony

[Louise Antony : Philosophy : UMass Amherst]
Louise Antony is a native of Massachusetts and graduated in 1971 from Mt. Everett Regional H.S. in Sheffield, MA. She studied philosophy at Syracuse University and the University of London, and received her BA from Syracuse in 1975.
URL: https://www.umass.edu/philosophy/about/directory/louise-antony

[Louise Antony - Wikiwand]
Louise M. Antony is an American philosopher who is professor of philosophy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She specializes in epistemology and feminist theory.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Louise_Antony

[Louise Antony - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Sep 24, 2024 · official is god necessary for morality william lane craig and louise antony 1 of 2 Education and career Antony received a bachelor's in philosophy from Syracuse University in 1975, after which she went to Harvard University for her doctorate, which she received in 1981.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Louise-Antony

[Dr. Louise Antony Opens Midwest Philosophy Colloquium]
Dr. Antony is also a faculty in the Women's Studies and Comparative Literature Departments at Ohio State. She earned her doctoral degree in philosophy from Harvard University in 1982 and a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Syracuse University in 1975. She has taught at Ohio State University since 2000.
URL: https://docslib.org/doc/3870985/dr-louise-antony-opens-midwest-philosophy-colloquium


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Louise Antony - Wikipedia] ---
Louise M. Antony is an American philosopher who is professor of philosophy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She specializes in epistemology and feminist theory.


--- [Louise Antony : Philosophy : UMass Amherst] ---
Louise Antony Professor Emerita Professional Bio Louise Antony is a native of Massachusetts and graduated in 1971 from Mt. Everett Regional H.S. in Sheffield, MA. She studied philosophy at Syracuse University and the University of London, and received her BA from Syracuse in 1975. She received her Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1982. Professor Antony’s work has focused on the question how mentality can be realized in a physical world; she has written extensively about mental causation, the nature of mental representation, and the relation between language and mind. With Norbert Hornstein, she co-edited a volume of original essays, Chomsky and His Critics. Professor Antony is also interested in naturalistic epistemology, and is currently trying to develop a psychologically realistic account of empirical justification. Professor Antony also works in feminist philosophy, particularly feminist epistemology. She co-edited, with Charlotte Witt, A Mind of One’s Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity. Recently, Professor Antony has become interested in the philosophy of religion. She edited a collection of personal reflections by atheist philosophers, Philosophers Without Gods: Meditations on Atheism and the Secular Life. Professor Antony has lectured at colleges and universities throughout the United States and in many foreign countries. She has been a guest on the radio show Philosophy Talk, and has contributed to the New York Timesphilosophy blog, “The Stone.” Together with Ann Cudd, she directs the Mentoring Program for Early-Career Women in Philosophy. Professor Antony was recently elected Vice-President of the Eastern Division of the American Philosophical Association, and has served as President of the Society for Philosophy and Psychology.


--- [Louise Antony - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Louise Antony - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Louise Antony Role Philosopher | || Institutions University of Massachusetts, Amherst Books Philosophers Without Gods: Meditations on Atheism and the Secular Life | Louise Antony - "Does God Love Us?" Part 1 Louise Antony is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Before joining the faculty at UMass Amherst in 2006, she taught at several other colleges and universities. She specializes in philosophy of mind, epistemology, feminist theory, and philosophy of language. Besides for her academic work, she has also spoken out about the oppressive climate for women in philosophy; she wrote one of a series of articles in the New York Times' Opinionator column in the fall of 2013, and she founded with Ann Cudd the Mentoring Project for Junior Women in Philosophy in 2011. During 2015-2016 she served as president of the eastern division of the American Philosophical Association. Contents - Louise Antony Does God Love Us Part 1 - official is god necessary for morality william lane craig and louise antony 1 of 2 - Education and career - Research areas - Publications - References official is god necessary for morality william lane craig and louise antony 1 of 2 Education and career Antony received a bachelor's in philosophy from Syracuse University in 1975, after which she went to Harvard University for her doctorate, which she received in 1981. Her first academic position was at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, 1980-1981. She taught at Boston University from 1981-1983; Bates College from 1983-1986; North Carolina State University from 1986-1993; University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill from 1993-2000; and Ohio State University from 2000-2006. She debated Christian apologist William Lane Craig in 2008 on the topic "Is God Necessary for Morality?". Research areas In her work on the philosophy of mind, Antony stakes out a middleground between eliminative materialists like Daniel Dennett who deny the possibility of the existence of the mind, and groups such dualists and neutral monists - those who look for non-physical explanations of the mind. Antony is also a prominent proponent of analytic feminist philosophy, suggesting that earlier feminist philosophers overlooked the extent to which analytic philosophers had rejected the ideas of empiricists and rationalists, and thus misidentified analytic epistemology with empiricism. Publications Antony has written a number of peer-reviewed papers, book reviews, and essays. She has also edited and introduced three volumes: Philosophers Without Gods (Oxford University Press, 2007), a collection of essays by leading philosophers reflecting on their life without religious faith (3); Chomsky and His Critics, with Norbert Hornstein (Blackwell Publishing Company, 2003);and, with Charlotte Witt, A Mind of One's Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity, (Westview Press, 1993), which was expanded in 2002 in a second edition. Other selected essays include: “Natures and Norms,” “Multiple Realization: Keeping it Real,” “Atheism as Perfect Piety For the Love of Reason,” “Everybody Has Got It: A Defense of Non-Reductive Materialism in the Philosophy of Mind,” and “Because I Said So: Toward a Feminist Theory of Authority” with Rebecca Hanrahan.


--- [Dr. Louise Antony Opens Midwest Philosophy Colloquium] ---
Dr. Louise Antony Opens Midwest Philosophy Colloquium Total Page：16 File Type：pdf, Size：1020Kb Load more Recommended publications - Why Ideal Epistemology? 2 1 Why Ideal Epistemology? 2 3 4 5 6 1 Ideal and nonideal epistemology 7 What are ideal and nonideal epistemology? We can begin by gesturing toward some loose sociological 8 trends: nonideal epistemology ideal epistemology informal, non-mathy formal, mathy1 talks about beliefs talks about credences2 emphasizes relation to emphasizes relation to decision knowledge theory uses “justified” uses “rational” uses “reasons” language doesn’t unimpressive babies superbabies written in Word written in LaTeX . 9 10 Ideal epistemologists are concerned with questions about what perfectly rational, cognitively ide- 11 alized, computationally unlimited believers would believe. (Note: I use the term “belief” broadly for any 12 doxastic state, including binary belief, credences, comparative confidence, etc.; mutatis mutandis for 13 “believe” and “believer”.) Often this involves presupposing or defending epistemic norms that, arguably, 14 no actual humans can satisfy: norms mandating 15 logical omniscience; ◦ 1 Note that despite this trend, the ideal/nonideal distinction in epistemology is strictly orthogonal to the formal/informal distinction. Theorists of bounded rationality often pursue formal nonideal epistemology; I personally often do informal ideal epistemology. 2 Again, despite the trend, this distinction is orthogonal to the ideal/nonideal distinction: AGM models of belief revision are a form of ideal epistemology, for example (Alchourrón et al., 1985). And much of the bounded rationality literature focuses on credence. 1 1 consistency and closure of binary beliefs; ◦ 2 infinitely precise credences; ◦ 3 credences satisfying the Kolmogorov probability axioms; ◦ 4 updating by conditionalization; ◦ 5 immediate update (rather than temporally extended reasoning); ◦ 6 closure of doxastic attitudes under boolean operations; ◦ 3 7 ...and so on. - Objectivity in the Feminist Philosophy of Science OBJECTIVITY IN THE FEMINIST PHILOSOPHY OF SCIENCE DISSERTATION Presented in Partial Fulfillment of the Requisites for the Degree Doctor of Philosophy in the Graduate School of The Ohio State University By Karen Cordrick Haely, M.A. ***** The Ohio State University 2003 Dissertation Committee: Approved by Professor Louise M. Antony, Adviser Professor Donald C. Hubin _______________________ Professor George Pappas Adviser Philosophy Graduate Program ABSTRACT According to a familiar though naïve conception, science is a rigorously neutral enterprise, free from social and cultural influence, but more sophisticated philosophical views about science have revealed that cultural and personal interests and values are ubiquitous in scientific practice, and thus ought not be ignored when attempting to understand, describe and prescribe proper behavior for the practice of science. Indeed, many theorists have argued that cultural and personal interests and values must be present in science (and knowledge gathering in general) in order to make sense of the world. The concept of objectivity has been utilized in the philosophy of science (as well as in epistemology) as a way to discuss and explore the various types of social and cultural influence that operate in science. The concept has also served as the focus of debates about just how much neutrality we can or should expect in science. This thesis examines feminist ideas regarding how to revise and enrich the concept of objectivity, and how these suggestions help achieve both feminist and scientific goals. Feminists offer us warnings about “idealized” concepts of objectivity, and suggest that power can play a crucial role in determining which research programs get labeled “objective”. - Feminism & Philosophy Vol.5 No.1 APA Newsletters Volume 05, Number 1 Fall 2005 NEWSLETTER ON FEMINISM AND PHILOSOPHY FROM THE EDITOR, SALLY J. SCHOLZ NEWS FROM THE COMMITTEE ON THE STATUS OF WOMEN, ROSEMARIE TONG ARTICLES MARILYN FISCHER “Feminism and the Art of Interpretation: Or, Reading the First Wave to Think about the Second and Third Waves” JENNIFER PURVIS “A ‘Time’ for Change: Negotiating the Space of a Third Wave Political Moment” LAURIE CALHOUN “Feminism is a Humanism” LOUISE ANTONY “When is Philosophy Feminist?” ANN FERGUSON “Is Feminist Philosophy Still Philosophy?” OFELIA SCHUTTE “Feminist Ethics and Transnational Injustice: Two Methodological Suggestions” JEFFREY A. GAUTHIER “Feminism and Philosophy: Getting It and Getting It Right” SARA BEARDSWORTH “A French Feminism” © 2005 by The American Philosophical Association ISSN: 1067-9464 BOOK REVIEWS Robin Fiore and Hilde Lindemann Nelson: Recognition, Responsibility, and Rights: Feminist Ethics and Social Theory REVIEWED BY CHRISTINE M. KOGGEL Diana Tietjens Meyers: Being Yourself: Essays on Identity, Action, and Social Life REVIEWED BY CHERYL L. HUGHES Beth Kiyoko Jamieson: Real Choices: Feminism, Freedom, and the Limits of the Law REVIEWED BY ZAHRA MEGHANI Alan Soble: The Philosophy of Sex: Contemporary Readings REVIEWED BY KATHRYN J. NORLOCK Penny Florence: Sexed Universals in Contemporary Art REVIEWED BY TANYA M. LOUGHEAD CONTRIBUTORS ANNOUNCEMENTS APA NEWSLETTER ON Feminism and Philosophy Sally J. Scholz, Editor Fall 2005 Volume 05, Number 1 objective claims, Beardsworth demonstrates Kristeva’s ROM THE DITOR “maternal feminine” as “an experience that binds experience F E to experience” and refuses to be “turned into an abstraction.” Both reconfigure the ground of moral theory by highlighting the cultural bias or particularity encompassed in claims of Feminism, like philosophy, can be done in a variety of different objectivity or universality. - An Interpretationist Approach to the Thinking Mind DISSERTATION Thought Without Language: an Interpretationist Approach to the Thinking Mind DISSERTATION Presented in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree Doctor of Philosophy in the Graduate School of The Ohio State University By Michael Dean Jaworski Graduate Program in Philosophy The Ohio State University 2010 Dissertation Committee: Neil Tennant, Advisor William Taschek Ben Caplan Copyright by Michael Dean Jaworski 2010 Abstract I defend an account of thought on which non-linguistic beings can be thinkers. This result is significant in that many philosophers have claimed that the ability to think depends on the ability to use language. These opponents of my view note that our everyday understanding of our own cognitive activities qua thought bestows upon those activities the propositional structure of sentences and the inferential norms of public linguistic practice. They hold that our attributions of thought to non-linguistic beings project non-existent structure onto the cognitive activities of those beings, and assess the beings’ activities according to standards to which the beings bear no responsibility. So, despite the complex neural and behavioral activities of many non-linguistic beings, my opponents hold that those beings are not properly described as thinkers. To respond to my opponents successfully, one must not merely cite scientific and folk practices of thought attribution that permit thought to be attributed to some non- linguistic beings. My opponents’ insights might be taken to demonstrate a need to revise those practices, or to treat the attributions of thought to non-linguistic beings made within those practices as instrumentally valuable but technically false. Instead, my strategy is to acknowledge the language-like structure and norms of thought, and show that a non- linguistic being’s cognitive activities might nonetheless have that structure and be subject ii to those norms. - Martha Nussbaum Martha Nussbaum EDUCATION 1964-1966 Wellesley College 1966-1967 New York University, School of the Arts 1967-1969 New York University, Washington Square College. B.A. 1969. 1969-1975 Harvard University, M.A. 1971, Ph.D. 1975 (Classical Philology) 1972-1975 Harvard University, Society of Fellows, Junior Fellow 1973-1974 St. Hugh's College, Oxford University: Honorary Member of Senior Common Room EMPLOYMENT 1999-- University of Chicago, Ernst Freund Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics Appointed in Law School and Philosophy Department, 2012 -- Appointed in: Law School, Philosophy Department, and Divinity School, -2012 Associate Member, Classics Department (1995 -- ) Associate Member, Department of Political Science (2003 -- ) Associate Member, Divinity School, (2012 --) Member, Committee on Southern Asian Studies (Affiliate 1999 –2005, full Member 2006--) Board Member,, Center for Gender Studies 1999-2002 Board Member, Human Rights Program, 2002--; Co-Chair, 2007-8; Founder and Coordinator, Center for Comparative Constitutionalism, 2002 – 2007 (spring) Visiting Professor of Law and Classics, Harvard University 2004 (spring) Visiting Professor, Centre for Political Science, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India 1996-1998 University of Chicago, Ernst Freund Professor of Law and Ethics (Appointed in Law School, Philosophy Department, and Divinity School, Associate in Classics) 1996 (spring) Oxford University, Weidenfeld Visiting Professor 1995-1996 University of Chicago, Professor of Law and Ethics (Appointed in Law School, - Mentor Bios 2013 Mentor Bios – 2013 Workshop Amy Allen is the Parents Distinguished Research Professor in the Humanities and Professor of Philosophy and Women's and Gender Studies at Dartmouth College. Her research interests are in Contemporary Continental Philosophy, social and political theory, and feminist theory. In particular, she works at the intersection of French poststructuralism, the Frankfurt School, and feminism on topics such as power, agency, subjectivity, autonomy, history and normativity. She is the author of two books: The Power of Feminist Theory: Domination, Resistance, Solidarity (1999) and The Politics of Our Selves: Power, Autonomy, and Gender in Contemporary Critical Theory (2008). She is the Co-Editor in Chief of the journal Constellations, series editor of the Columbia University Press book series New Directions in Critical Theory, and Executive Co-director of SPEP, the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy. Louise Antony is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. She received her B.A. from Syracuse University in 1975, and her Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1982. Prof. Antony has research interests in the philosophy of mind, naturalistic epistemology, feminist theory, and the philosophy of religion. She has edited or co-edited three volumes: A Mind of One’s Own: Feminist Essays on Reason and Objectivity (with Charlotte Witt) and Chomsky and His Critics (with Norbert Hornstein), and Philosophers Without Gods: Meditations on Atheism and the Secular Life. She has contributed to the New York Times blog, “The Stone,” and to the popular website AskPhilosophers.org. Ann Cudd is University Distinguished Professor of Philosophy and Associate Dean for Humanities at the University of Kansas. - Proposal for Contemporary Debates in Philosophy of Mind Proposal for Contemporary Debates in Philosophy of Mind Edited by Jonathan Cohen∗and Brian McLaughliny This volume will introduce the central debates in contemporary philosophy of mind. The volume will include ten pairs of newly commissioned essays ad- vocating opposing viewpoints | one for each of the ten topics listed below. In addition, the editors will provide a substantive introduction that will lay out the necessary background for the debates and locate the individual topics within philosophy of mind and in relation to one another. The essays will each be around 6000 to 8000 words in length, and will be accessible to upper-level undergraduates and graduate students. Consequently, we expect that the volume could be used as text for advanced courses in phi- losophy of mind. However, the essays will also represent the state of play in the areas, and will contain original argumentation by eminent philosophers, so it will also be an important text for academics working in philosophy of mind and adjoining areas. We have organized our questions under the three headings that, in our minds, structure the central debates in contemporary philosophy of mind: questions about the ontology of the mental, questions about the nature of mental content, and questions about the nature of consciousness. For many of the questions on our list, we have suggested a number of backup authors in case our ﬁrst choices are unable to write the essays. Although some names appear more than once on our list (including appearances as backup authors) we would not allow more than one piece by a single author in the volume. - The Structure of Consciousness University of Massachusetts Amherst ScholarWorks@UMass Amherst Open Access Dissertations 9-2013 The trS ucture of Consciousness Lowell Keith Friesen University of Massachusetts Amherst, [email protected] Follow this and additional works at: https://scholarworks.umass.edu/open_access_dissertations Part of the Other Neuroscience and Neurobiology Commons, Philosophy Commons, and the Psychology Commons Recommended Citation Friesen, Lowell Keith, "The trS ucture of Consciousness" (2013). Open Access Dissertations. 794. https://doi.org/10.7275/5389-r721 https://scholarworks.umass.edu/open_access_dissertations/794 This Open Access Dissertation is brought to you for free and open access by ScholarWorks@UMass Amherst. It has been accepted for inclusion in Open Access Dissertations by an authorized administrator of ScholarWorks@UMass Amherst. For more information, please contact [email protected]. THE STRUCTURE OF CONSCIOUSNESS A Dissertation Presented by LOWELL KEITH FRIESEN Submitted to the Graduate School of the University of Massachusetts Amherst in partial fulﬁllment of the requirements for the degree of DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY September 2013 Philosophy c Copyright by Lowell Keith Friesen 2013 All Rights Reserved THE STRUCTURE OF CONSCIOUSNESS A Dissertation Presented by LOWELL KEITH FRIESEN Approved as to style and content by: Joseph Levine, Chair Louise Antony, Member Hilary Kornblith, Member Erik Cheries, Member Hilary Kornblith, Department Chair Philosophy To Pam, Lyndon, and Kira. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS I would, ﬁrst of all, like to thank the faculty, students, and support staﬀ at the University of Massachusetts philosophy department for creating the positive study environment I had the privilege of being a part of during my time there. Not all graduate students in philosophy have this good fortune. - Proceedings and Addresses of the American Philosophical Association, Volume 90, November 2016 Things Oughta Make Sense1 Louise Antony UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS AMHERST Presidential Address delivered at the one hundred twelfth Eastern Division meeting of the American Philosophical Association in Washington, DC, on January 8, 2016. When I ﬁrst started doing philosophy, I didn’t really know what I was doing. Some will say that not much has changed. And it is true that I don’t have a worked-out metaphilosophy. It’s still the case that I’m ﬂummoxed by innocent questions about what I do. (On airplanes, I used to sometimes lie and say that I was a nurse or a lawyer or something else people could recognize. But I eventually found that if all I want is for my neighbor to leave me alone, it’s far more eﬀective to tell him the truth: “I’m a philosopher. Let me explain my theory of mental causation: it all starts with Descartes. .”) But even if there are many big questions about philosophy that I can’t answer, I still do think that I’ve gained some insight into what philosophy is. Or, at least, what it could be. Or what it should be. I had the enormous good fortune as a beginning student of philosophy to fall under the tutelage of some extraordinary philosophers (as well as some extraordinary teachers who were not philosophers—for example, the ﬂutist John Oberbrunner.) My very ﬁrst philosophy teacher, and perhaps my harshest critic even to this day, was/is Peter van Inwagen. He paid me the immense compliment of taking me—my questions, my objections, my arguments, and even my confusions—seriously. - Dr. Louise Antony Opens Midwest Philosophy Colloquium University Relations View metadata, citation and similar papers at core.ac.uk brought to you by CORE provided by University of Minnesota, Morris (UMM): Digital Well University of Minnesota Morris Digital Well University of Minnesota Morris Digital Well University Relations News Archive External Relations 9-30-2004 Dr. Louise Antony opens Midwest Philosophy Colloquium University Relations Follow this and additional works at: http://digitalcommons.morris.umn.edu/urel_news Recommended Citation University Relations, "Dr. Louise Antony opens Midwest Philosophy Colloquium" (2004). University Relations News Archive. Paper 2029. http://digitalcommons.morris.umn.edu/urel_news/2029 This Article is brought to you for free and open access by the External Relations at University of Minnesota Morris Digital Well. It has been accepted for inclusion in University Relations News Archive by an authorized administrator of University of Minnesota Morris Digital Well. For more information, please contact [email protected]. Contact Melissa Weber, Director of Communications Phone: 320-589-6414, [email protected] Jenna Ray, Editor/Writer Phone: 320-589-6068, [email protected] Dr. Louise Antony opens Midwest Philosophy Colloquium Summary: (September 30, 2004)-Dr. Louise Antony, professor of philosophy at Ohio State University, Columbus, will give the Fall Midwest Philosophy Colloquium lecture on Monday, Oct. 11. She will present a campus seminar at 2:30 p.m. in the Alumni Room of Oyate Hall in the UMM Student Center, and an evening lecture at 7 p.m. at First Lutheran Church in Morris. Dr. Antony is also a faculty in the Women's Studies and Comparative Literature Departments at Ohio State. She earned her doctoral degree in philosophy from Harvard University in 1982 and a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Syracuse University in 1975. - Paul K. Moser Ed Paul K. Moser ed. The Oxford Handbook of Epistemology Oxford: Oxford University Press 2002 end p.iii Preface Epistemology, also known as the theory of knowledge, will flourish as long as we deem knowledge valuable. We shall, I predict, continue to value knowledge, if only for its instrumental value: it gets us through the day as well as the night. Indeed, it's hard to imagine a stable person, let alone a stable society, indifferent to the real difference between genuine knowledge and mere opinion, even mere true opinion. The study of knowledge, then, has a very bright future. In the concept-sensitive hands of philosophers, epistemology focuses on the nature, origin, and scope of knowledge. It thus examines the defining ingredients, the sources, and the limits of knowledge. Given the central role of epistemology in the history of philosophy as well as in contemporary philosophy, epistemologists will always have work to do. Debates over the analysis of knowledge, the sources of knowledge, and the status of skepticism will alone keep the discipline of epistemology active and productive. This book presents some of the best work in contemporary epistemology by leading epistemologists. Taken together, its previously unpublished essays span the whole field of epistemology. They assess prominent positions and break new theoretical ground while avoiding undue technicality. My own work on this book has benefited from many people and institutions. First, I thank the nineteen contributors for their fine cooperation and contributions in the face of numerous deadlines. Second, I thank Peter Ohlin, Philosophy Editor at Oxford University Press, for helpful advice and assistance on many fronts. - The Reference and Content of Proper Names: a Social and Pragmatic Approach THE REFERENCE AND CONTENT OF PROPER NAMES: A SOCIAL AND PRAGMATIC APPROACH DISSERTATION Presented in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree Doctor of Philosophy in the Graduate School of The Ohio State University By Yimin Kui, M.A. The Ohio State University 2005 Dissertation Committee: Approved by Professor Joseph Levine, Adviser Professor Louise Antony Professor Robert Kraut ____________________________ Adviser Graduate Program in Philosophy ABSTRACT The goal of my dissertation is to propose and defend a unified account of the semantic content of proper names that can address all the following six problems facing various theories of proper names: The Modal Argument, the Epistemic Argument, the Semantic Argument, Frege’s Puzzle, Belief Puzzles, and Empty Names. I first defend a theory of reference concerning proper names. I argue that for every proper name, there is a structured web of community uses associated with it. Among the objects involved in the Kripkean causal network of the name, the object that stands out as the dominant bearer of the web of community uses is the referent of the name. Roughly, an object becomes the dominant bearer of the web of uses, if it either satisfies or causes the weighted most of the properties/uses in the web. Secondly, I examine Nathan Salmon’s and Scott Soames’s defenses of the direct reference theory. For their strategies to succeed, they need the assumption that all the properties/beliefs (or at least the specific ones) in the web of community uses of a name are pragmatically imparted information and thus semantically irrelevant information.
