=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Aaron Carter's Death: The Details Behind His Sudden Passing]
Apr 11, 2023 — When did Aaron Carter die? Carter died on Nov. 5, 2022. Authorities later revealed that he was found before 11 a.m. but was not identified ...
URL: https://people.com/music/aaron-carter-death-facts-of-unexpected-passing/

[Aaron Carter - Wikipedia]
Aaron Charles Carter[1] (December 7, 1987 - November 5, 2022) [2] was an American singer and rapper. He came to fame as a teen pop singer in the late 1990s, establishing himself as a star among preteen and teenage audiences during the first years of the 2000s, [3] with his four studio albums.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_Carter

[Aaron Carter dies: Singer, reality star found dead at 34 in home]
Nov 5, 2022 · Singer and rapper Aaron Carter, the younger brother of Nick Carter of the Backstreet Boys, was found dead Saturday at his home in Southern California.
URL: https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/2022/11/05/aaron-carter-dead-california/8280687001/

[Aaron Carter's Death: How Did The Troubled Pop Star Die?]
Nov 5, 2024 · Aaron Carter rose to fame in the 1990s as a teenage pop star, but he struggled with substance abuse and drug addiction from an early age, which ultimately led to his death on November 5, 2022. Paparazzo Presents/Wikimedia Commons Aaron Carter was just 34 years old when he died in November 2022.
URL: https://allthatsinteresting.com/aaron-carter-death

[Aaron Carter - Wikipedia]
Teen pop - Wikipedia
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teen_pop


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Aaron Carter's Death: The Details Behind His Sudden Passing] ---
Aaron Carter's Death: The Details Behind His Sudden Passing Musician Aaron Carter died unexpectedly in November 2022, and his cause of death was later ruled an accident By Stephanie Kaloi Stephanie Kaloi Stephanie Kaloi is a contributing writer at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE since 2022. She has also written about entertainment news for a number of outlets, including Entertainment Weekly, Parade and LittleThings. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on May 22, 2024 04:31PM EDT Aaron Carter. Credit : Bruce Glikas/FilmMagic/ Getty Images An entire generation of pop fans was raised on Aaron Carter's hit songs, including "That's How I Beat Shaq" and "Aaron's Party (Come and Get It)." And the singer's unexpected death on Nov. 5, 2022, came as a shock to many. His body was initially found in the bathtub of his California home, and in April 2023, the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner-Coroner ruled his death accidental. The report stated that Carter was "incapacitated while in the bathtub," ultimately leading to drowning as the drugs took effect. Carter is the youngest brother of Nick Carter, who rose to fame with the 1990s boy band Backstreet Boys. Carter enjoyed his own career in the same niche, producing several hits and even touring with his brother's group and Britney Spears. In recent years, the singer had begun to shift his career toward rap. Throughout his life, Carter was open about struggling with addiction, substance abuse and metal health, for which he sought treatment. "I'm happy that I came out on the other side," Aaron told PEOPLE in 2018. "I was a very happy baby growing up. [Now] I just want to have fun, be healthy — mind, body, soul, emotions … all of those things, and really be responsible for my own actions too." In July 2023, Carter's twin sister, Angel Carter, laid him to rest at Forest Lawn in Los Angeles. She called burying her brother her "last act of love." "To lose a twin, it's an out-of-body experience. He's a part of me," she told PEOPLE. A four-part documentary series about Carter's "fraught dynamic" with his family along with the allegations made against his brother, Nick, is headed to Max in 2024. ID's series, called Fallen Idols: Nick and Aaron Carter, premieres on May 27 and will detail "Aaron's struggles with mental health and substance abuse – and the rift that occurred after Aaron decided to support his brother’s accusers." Here is everything we know about Aaron Carter's tragic death. How did Aaron Carter die? Alison Buck/Getty Carter's body was found by his housekeeper in November 2022. At the time, it wasn't immediately clear how he died, though it was presumed that he drowned in the bathtub in which his body was found. The Los Angeles County Medical Examiner-Coroner released its official report on Carter's death on April 18, 2023. His cause of death was attributed to drowning after inhaling difluoroethane and taking alprazolam, the generic form of brand-name Xanax. The report also indicated that Carter was "incapacitated while in the bathtub due to the effects" of the drugs he took which contributed to his death by drowning. When did Aaron Carter die? Carter died on Nov. 5, 2022. Authorities later revealed that he was found before 11 a.m. but was not identified immediately. At the time, one of the singer's representatives simply commented that "a statement will be released shortly by the family and management. Thank you for your understanding during this difficult time." Where did Aaron Carter die? Carter's body was found in the bathtub of his home in Lancaster, California. The singer had listed the property for sale only one month before his death. He tweeted the news, writing, "Selling my 2nd home. Real estate has been super good to me. Ready for a new chapter in my 3rd home which I plan on staying to make a beautiful life for my family. This year has been super tough but I've learned so much. Thanks for the support everyone." How old was Aaron Carter when he died? The singer was 34 years old when he died. How did friends, family and fans react to Aaron Carter's death? Frazer Harrison/Getty After news of Carter's death became public, his brother Nick was one of the first to share a statement. "My heart has been broken today," he wrote on Instagram. "Even though my brother and I have had a complicated relationship, my love for him has never ever faded. I have always held onto the hope that he would somehow, someday want to walk a healthy path and eventually find the help that he so desperately needed." Nick continued, "Sometimes we want to blame someone or something for a loss. But the truth is that addiction and mental illness is the real villain here. I will miss my brother more than anyone will ever know. I love you Chizz., now you get a chance to finally have some peace you could never find here on earth….God, please take care of my baby brother." Aaron's twin sister Angel also issued a statement via social media. She wrote, "To my twin… I loved you beyond measure. You will be missed dearly. My funny, sweet Aaron, I have so many memories of you ... and I promise to cherish them. I know you're at peace now. I will carry you with me until the day I die and get to see you again. 💔." Carter also left behind his fiancée, Melanie Martin, and the pair's then-1-year-old son Prince. "My heart is completely broken over the passing of my fiancé Aaron. I knew he was struggling, and I tried everything to help him," she told PEOPLE exclusively. "I will now be raising our son as a single mother and this is the worst day of my life, but I have to be strong for our son." Lester Cohen/WireImage Hilary Duff and Lindsay Lohan, who both dated Carter in their teens, also issued comments about his death. Duff shared a photo of the two on Instagram and wrote, "I am deeply sorry that life was so hard and that you had to struggle in front of the whole world. You had a charm that was absolutely effervescent. Boy, did my teenage self love you deeply. Sending love to your family at this time. Rest easy." Lohan was asked about Carter while speaking to Entertainment Tonight, and she told the outlet that she remembers her ex fondly. As she put it, "My heart goes out to his family and may he rest in peace. God bless him … a lot of love there." What questions are there surrounding Aaron Carter's death? Though his death was ruled an accident, some of Carter's family members have questioned the report. After the cause of death was revealed, Martin told TMZ that the news was "not closure for me." "It claims death is by drowning but also adds he was wearing a t-shirt and necklace in the bathtub which doesn't make sense, why would he be in a bathtub with clothes on?" she told the outlet. "I am still in shock and still miss Aaron every day. I don't understand the chain of events and this report only has us asking more questions." In March 2023, the former child star's mother, Jane Schneck, shared graphic photos from the scene of Carter's death on Facebook and alleged that he was the subject of death threats. She wrote, "Still trying to get a real investigation for the death of my son Aaron Carter." How have Aaron Carter's family and friends honored him after his death? Angel Carter and Aaron Carter in 2014. Vincent Sandoval/WireImage In early 2024, Carter's close friend, Bryant Cassidy, teamed up with his former manager and producer Morgan Matthews to release his posthumous single, "Grateful," an upbeat song about appreciating life. “This [song] reminds me of the Aaron that I know,” Cassidy told PEOPLE. “He just sounds so good on it. This is a positive way to remember Aaron.” In April 2024, Angel announced that she would be releasing an album of never-before-heard music from her twin brother, which will include music he recorded more than 10 years ago. "The fans have been asking for the music, and after Aaron passed away we put together a benefit concert to honor him called 'The Songs for Tomorrow Concert,' and we had played 'Recovery' during this show. And fans were just reaching out to Aaron Pierce and I — who is the producer of the album — and begging us to release this music. So, here we are today," Angel said during an interview on CBS This Morning. Close Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Deaths


--- [Aaron Carter - Wikipedia] ---
Aaron Charles Carter (December 7, 1987 – November 5, 2022) was an American singer and rapper. He came to fame as a teen pop singer in the late 1990s, establishing himself as a star among preteen and teenage audiences during the first years of the 2000s, with his four studio albums.
Carter began performing at age seven, after the formation of his brother Nick's group the Backstreet Boys, and released his self-titled debut album in 1997 at age nine, selling a million copies worldwide. His second album Aaron's Party (Come Get It) (2000) sold three million copies in the United States, and Carter began making guest appearances on Nickelodeon and touring with the Backstreet Boys shortly after the record's release. Carter's next album, Oh Aaron, also went platinum, and in 2002 he released what would be his last studio album for over 15 years, Another Earthquake!, followed by his 2003 Most Requested Hits collection.
Carter appeared on Dancing with the Stars, and in the Broadway musical Seussical and the off-Broadway musical The Fantasticks, and made several one-off performances. In 2014, he released a single featuring rapper Pat SoLo, "Ooh Wee". Carter released the single "Fool's Gold" in 2016, and an EP titled Love in 2017. His fifth studio album, also titled Love, was released in 2018. A sixth album, Blacklisted, was released two days after his accidental drug-related death.




--- [Aaron Carter dies: Singer, reality star found dead at 34 in home] ---
Aaron Carter, singer and reality TV star, found dead at 34 in California home Singer Aaron Carter, who began performing as a child and had hit albums starting in his teen years, was found dead Saturday at his home in Southern California. He was 34. Representatives for Carter’s family confirmed the singer’s death to The Associated Press. They did not provide any immediate further comment. Carter, the younger brother of Nick Carter of the Backstreet Boys, performed as an opening act for Britney Spears as well as his brother’s boy band, and appeared on the family’s reality series “House of Carters” that aired on E! Entertainment Television. In 2009, he competed on Season 9 of "Dancing With the Stars," finishing fifth with his professional partner Karina Smirnoff. Deputies responded around 11 a.m. Saturday following reports of a medical emergency at Carter's home in Lancaster, California. Authorities said a house sitter found a man in the bathtub in the home and resuscitation efforts were unsuccessful. Parra said the deputies found a deceased person at the residence, but she could not immediately confirm it was Carter. Carter’s fiancée, Melanie Martin, mother of his young son, asked for privacy as the family grieves. “We are still in the process of accepting this unfortunate reality,” Martin said in a statement Saturday. “Your thoughts and prayers are greatly appreciated.” Nick says his 'heart has been broken' amid brother Aaron Carter's death Nick, 42, paid tribute to his younger brother in an Instagram post Sunday. "My heart has been broken today," the Backstreet Boy singer wrote. "Even though my brother and I have had a complicated relationship, my love for him has never ever faded." Nick added that he "always held onto hope, that (Aaron) would somehow, someday want to walk a healthy path and eventually find the help that he so desperately needed." "Sometimes we want to blame someone or something for a loss. But the truth is that addiction and mental illness is the real villain here," Nick continued. He concluded: "I will miss my brother more than anyone will ever know. I love you Chizz., now you get a chance to finally have some peace you could never find here on earth….God, please take care of my baby brother." Aaron Carter's twin sister Angel remembers her 'sweet' brother Carter's twin sister Angel also shared a heartfelt tribute to her late brother on Instagram Saturday. "To my twin… I loved you beyond measure," Angel, 34, wrote alongside a series of childhood photos of the pair. "You will be missed dearly." She continued, "My funny, sweet Aaron, I have so many memories of you and I, and I promise to cherish them. I know you’re at peace now." "I will carry you with me until the day I die and get to see you again," Angel concluded. Hilary Duff pays tribute to Aaron Carter: 'Boy did my teenage self love you deeply' Celebrities shared their remembrances as word of Carter's death spread on Saturday. "For Aaron – I’m deeply sorry that life was so hard for you and that you had to struggle in-front of the whole world," Hilary Duff wrote on Instagram. The "Lizzie McGuire" star dated Carter when both were young teens. "You had a charm that was absolutely effervescent … boy did my teenage self love you deeply," she wrote. "We are shocked and saddened about the sudden passing of Aaron Carter," New Kids on the Block tweeted from the group's official account. "Sending prayers to the Carter family." "Fame at a young age is often more a curse than a blessing and Surviving it is not easy," songwriter Diane Warren tweeted with a broken heart emoji. "RIP Aaron Carter." Aaron Carter shared a bill with the Backstreet Boys tour in 1997 – the same year his self-titled debut album went gold. He reached triple-platinum status with his sophomore album, 2000's “Aaron’s Party (Come Get It),” which produced hit singles including the title song and “I Want Candy." His videos received regular airplay on Disney and Nickelodeon. Carter earned acting credits on TV shows including “Lizzie McGuire.” He starred alongside his brother, Nick, and their siblings B.J., Aaron, Leslie and Angel Carter on “House of Carters” in 2006. He made his Broadway debut in 2001 as JoJo in “Who in Seussical the Musical” and was featured on the Food Network cooking show “Rachel vs. Guy: Celebrity Cook-Off” in 2012. Carter’s fifth and final studio album, “LOVE,” was released in 2018. Over the years, Carter struggled with substance abuse issues, entering rehab in 2017 following a DUI and an arrest for drug possession. "I will be disappearing for a while to work on myself," he wrote at the time. "Going to get strong. And work on my stress conditions and get better." In 2019, he apologetically canceled a string of tour dates, saying he was prioritizing his well-being. "I have to put my health first and I hope you can all understand how much I need this time to heal and recharge my batteries," he wrote. "This is what I need to do to have some peace." A day later in 2019, Nick filed a restraining order against his brother. "We were left with no choice but to take every measure possible to protect ourselves," Nick tweeted. "We love our brother and truly hope he gets the proper treatment he needs before any harm comes to himself or anyone else." In September 2022, Aaron Carter revealed he had voluntarily entered rehab in hope of regaining custody of his baby son, Prince. Contributing: Naledi Ushe, Andrea Mandell, Maeve McDermott and Kim Willis, USA TODAY, and The Associated Press


--- [Aaron Carter's Death: How Did The Troubled Pop Star Die?] ---
No content


--- [Aaron Carter - Wikipedia] ---
Teen pop is a subgenre of pop music that is created, marketed and oriented towards preteens and teenagers. Often, the artists themselves are teenagers during their breakout. While it can involve influences from a wide array of musical genres, it remains a subset of pop music, focusing on catchy melodies and marketability. Teen pop’s lyrics emphasize themes that teenagers can relate to, such as love, growing up, or partying. The image of the artist as an aspirational or desirable teenage figure is a crucial element of the genre, highlighting their visual appeal.
Despite facing criticism for being perceived as inauthentic or overly commercial, teen pop has remained a defining genre in the music industry. Today, it continues to dominate commercial markets with artists such as Olivia Rodrigo and Tate McRae. The genre's popularity can be attributed to teenage listeners' disposable income, which they often devote to purchasing singles, albums, and merchandise. The impact of the teen pop genre extends beyond the music industry into culture, influencing fashion, language, and social trends. Teenage fans often develop a parasocial relationship with their idols, believing that the artist cares about them and their fellow fans. The intense connection between teen pop artists and their young audiences has had a profound effect on the psychological nature of teenagers, shaping their self-image and cultural identity.
