=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Painted Cave Fire 30th Anniversary - Edhat]
Jun 27, 2020 — Andrea Lang Gurka, age 37, died while fleeing the flames along San Marcos Pass Road. It was an exceptionally hot day. Records indicate the ...
URL: https://www.edhat.com/news/painted-cave-fire-30th-anniversary/

[35 Years Since the Painted Cave Fire - Santa Barbara]
Jun 27, 2025 · The Painted Cave Fire raged for five days, destroyed 430 structures, and killed two people. Andrea Lang Gurka, age 37, died while fleeing the flames along San Marcos Pass Road and an unnamed state prisoner died while working as a firefighter.
URL: https://www.edhat.com/news/35-years-since-the-painted-cave-fire/

[Santa Barbara wildfire remains one of California's worst | San Luis ...]
Oct 20, 2017 · Miraculously, Gurka’s was the only death in the Painted Cave, or, Paint Fire, which started near the top of San Marcos Pass above Santa Barbara.
URL: https://www.sanluisobispo.com/news/local/news-columns-blogs/photos-from-the-vault/article180061516.html

[Painted Cave Fire - Wikipedia]
The Painted Cave Fire was a devastating wildfire in June, 1990 that burned in the Santa Ynez Mountains and the city of Santa Barbara, within Santa Barbara County, California. The fire, which began near Painted Cave, was intentionally set near the intersection of Highway 154 (San Marcos Pass Road) and Painted Cave Road, burned 5,000 acres (20 km 2), destroyed 427 buildings, and resulted in two ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Painted_Cave_Fire

[A Final Flare-Up From Disastrous 1990 Fire - Los Angeles Times]
Nov 7, 2000 · Miraculously, but still tragically, only one person died, a 37-year-old woman who vainly sought shelter from the flames in a creek behind her house. The $250-million Painted Cave arson fire went ...
URL: https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-2000-nov-07-mn-48380-story.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Painted Cave Fire 30th Anniversary - Edhat] ---
By Robert Bernstein This week marks the 30th anniversary of the start of the Painted Cave Fire which officially burned from June 27, 1990 to July 2, 1990. Here are my photos from that horrific fire that I have never shared before. At the time, it was the most destructive fire in California history, with 641 structures destroyed. 4,900 acres were burned. Andrea Lang Gurka, age 37, died while fleeing the flames along San Marcos Pass Road. It was an exceptionally hot day. Records indicate the high temperature was 109 degrees. The call went out for a brush fire at 6:02 PM and the first fire engine arrived just minutes later. Firefighters were still finishing up fighting another fire at that time. This was the scene from near my apartment off Phelps Road in Goleta where Girsh Park is today: It looked a bit scary, but under normal circumstances it looked manageable. Most of the time the prevailing winds would be uphill on the mountain face. Which would take the fire away from the major populated areas. But the extreme heat and powerful down-slope winds made this anything but normal. The smoke was soon billowing high in the air over our neighborhood And flames could be seen sweeping down the mountain In just two hours the flames had come all the way down to the freeway and jumped over the freeway as if it was not even there. It was not that the fire was so intense. It was more a matter of the winds blowing embers at high speed over vast distances. As night fell, people gathered to watch from our area of Goleta. Many of us did not realize that San Marcos Pass was almost directly above us. Including the KEYT reporters, who at one point reported that the fire was coming into our neighborhood. Fortunately for us they were wrong. The fire came down in the area near 154 and Highway 101.Fire fighting planes flew over our heads on the way to the fire. At this time the fire fighting air base was here at the Santa Barbara airport. That meant they were on it quickly, but they were no match for the fierce winds and heat. Our company, Digital Instruments, had been in an old brick bank records building near the corner of Hollister and Modoc Road. We had moved out to the area near Hollister and Storke not long before the Painted Cave Fire. It was sad to see that entire neighborhood around where we had been almost completely destroyed. I rode my bicycle over to that neighborhood to survey the damage. The iconic Santa Barbara restaurant “The Philadelphia House” was in total ruins and never came back. The fact that a tile company burned showed how complete the destruction had been. Interestingly, our old building was not damaged. I climbed a nearby hill by the railroad tracks to get broader views of that neighborhood. And a view of the total destruction looking back up toward the mountains Later, I went for a ride with my co-worker friend Peter Maivald up San Marcos Pass Road and we got this sweeping view of the total destruction below Our illustrious employer Virgil Elings owned a house on Via Clarice in the middle of that area of total destruction. His one house was an island that was spared. He had a small orchard on his property that had an automatic watering system. He stayed on the property as long as possible, hosing down his roof. Then he turned on that watering system and fled when there was no other choice. Those actions saved his home. Again, it showed that in this case the fire was big, but mostly it was spread by embers. Keeping things watered was enough to keep the embers from taking hold. Fire fighters will always tell people to get out and not risk getting caught in the fire, but sometimes it does pay to stay awhile and fight the fire. It is a big risk, though, no doubt about it. Fire investigators quickly determined that it was a case of arson and found the point of origin near the intersection of Highway 154 and Painted Cave Road. But arson fires are very difficult to investigate because much evidence is destroyed in the fire. The case soon went cold. But about five years later Peggy Finley told her minister that her former boyfriend Leonard Ross had admitted to starting the fire. Ross told her he lit the fire to burn out his neighbor Michael Linthicum as a result of an ongoing feud between them. Linthicum’s house in fact was one of the first homes destroyed in the fire. Ross said he did not realize it would get out of control. But there was never enough evidence to prosecute Ross criminally. However, in 2000 he was successfully prosecuted in a civil case and ordered to pay $2.75 million in damages. Ross earned very little money in a craft business and his own property was so remote it was of little value. There was little chance of paying much of those damages. When the Painted Cave fire happened it was so extraordinarily huge and destructive it was hard to imagine anything worse coming later to our region. But the December 2017 Thomas Fire was almost 60 times bigger in terms of acres destroyed and almost twice as destructive in terms of structures. While the Thomas fire killed two people directly, another 21 deaths resulted in the Montecito mudflow which was a result of the fire. Record fires have been coming ever more often in recent years in terms of area and structures destroyed. The worst to date being the November 2018 Camp Fire which destroyed the entire town of Paradise. It destroyed 18,804 structures and killed 86 people. Humans have created a perfect storm of destruction by altering the climate and by building ever more into previously natural areas. Let us remember the terrible loss and tragedy of the Painted Cave Fire on this 30th anniversary. And let us also redouble our efforts to stop the forces that are leading to ever more of these tragedies.


--- [35 Years Since the Painted Cave Fire - Santa Barbara] ---
On June 27, 1990 the Painted Cave claimed two lives and burned 5,000 acres in Santa Barbara County. On this Wednesday evening at 6:02 pm, Santa Barbara County firefighters responded to a call for a brush fire at Highway 154 and Painted Cave Road. It was an abnormally hot day with temperatures reaching a record 109 degrees and sundowner winds kicking up to 40 mph. Within 20 minutes of arriving on the scene, the two-acre fire reached 70-feet in the air and traveled over 2 miles. It jumped Highway 101 about an hour and forty minutes later moving into Santa Barbara neighborhoods. The Painted Cave Fire raged for five days, destroyed 430 structures, and killed two people. Andrea Lang Gurka, age 37, died while fleeing the flames along San Marcos Pass Road and an unnamed state prisoner died while working as a firefighter. Investigators quickly determined the fire started due to arson but it was another five years until Leonard Ross was sued for allegedly igniting the fire in an attempt to “burn out his neighbor” when the fire “got out of hand.” The Santa Barbara County Fire Department reminds residents that wildfire can happen fast—day or night. Now is the time to prepare defensible space, harden your home, and know your evacuation plan. Robert Bernstein put together photos from that day and created a post for the fire’s 30th anniversary. See all of his photos and read his memories from that day here. Also Read - Historic Santa Barbara Churches Serving the City for Generations - Joe DeLise Shares Details on the “Shocking History of Electricity in Santa Barbara” - WAY BACK WHEN – SANTA BARBARA IN 1926 - New “Welcome to Isla Vista” Sign Installed, Honoring a Beloved Community Landmark - Jimmy’s Oriental Gardens, Chung family home added to National Register of Historic Places


--- [Santa Barbara wildfire remains one of California's worst | San Luis ...] ---
October 20, 2017 02:39 PM UPDATED October 20, 2017 02:58 PM Andrea Lang Gurka saw the flames shortly after 6 p.m. and called her husband to discuss possible escape routes from their home near Santa Barbara. It was June 27, 1990. According to a Los Angles Times story from July 7, 1990, Gurka had limited mobility. The 37-year-old artist had sprained both ankles the previous year. Her car had broken down the day before, and she couldn’t reach neighbors. Searchers found her body two days after the fire in a creek bed about 75 yards from her home. Miraculously, Gurka’s was the only death in the Painted Cave, or, Paint Fire, which started near the top of San Marcos Pass above Santa Barbara. According to Cal Fire, it is the 11st most destructive wildfires on record in California, burning 5,000 acres and destroying 427 buildings. 4 fires that started on Oct. 8th now rank on CA’s Top 20 most destructive list. #TubbsFire is now the most destructive in CA's state history pic.twitter.com/SuZAsceeLt — CAL FIRE (@CAL_FIRE) October 20, 2017 Driven by sundowner wind gusts as high as 40 miles per hour, the fire roared down the west side of Highway 154, crossing six lanes of Highway 101 less than two hours after it started. The heaviest damage took place in the hours between 6 pm and midnight. According to the Associated Press, a Highway Patrol officer suffered a broken arm when he tried to prevent a motorcyclist from running a barricade. A few firefighters were also reported to have suffered injuries. At the time, the state fire marshal called the Painted Cave Fire the “fastest-moving fire of its type ever in the United States.” Reporter David Wilcox and photographer Robert Dyer of The Telegram-Tribune drove to Santa Barbara to report the night of the fire. Telegram-Tribune reporter David Eddy and I followed the next morning. It was an tragic and eerie scene. The fire had sliced through neighborhoods leaving ash, twisted metal and masonry. Even ice plant was reduced to powder. Four years of drought, record heat, high winds and a match had combined to destructive effect. “It came so fast,” Kate Miller said the next morning. “We only had four minutes to get out.” Amid the sorrow there were a few miracles. Glenn Hemingway found his cat, Tory, meowing in the branches of a blackened tree though his house was lost. Laura Petrini, 8, salvaged cups and plates from the ruins of her family’s Rancho San Antonio area home. It came so fast. We only had four minutes to get out. Kate Miller John Petrini came to grips with the catastrophic loss by trying to find his humor. His home had been appraised two years earlier at $525,000. “It would be tough to get that now,” he said forcing a smile. Speaking about his lost home and contents, Petrini said, “It represents a lot of life, but everybody made it out safe.” Added his son David, 14: “And that’s the most important thing.” The man suspected of causing the Painted Cave or Paint Fire was never criminally charged. The Santa Barbara County District Attorney’s Office thought there wasn’t enough evidence to win the unanimous verdict required for criminal conviction. Leonard Ross denied setting the fire. He sued the county to clear his name, but his lawsuit was dismissed by the court. A jury ruled 9-3 in favor of the county’s counterclaim that Ross was culpable. The Los Angeles Times reported that Santa Barbara court ordered Leonard Ross to pay $2.75 million for the county’s losses in a December 2000 ruling. Two of Ross’s former girlfriends testified against him, and evidence was presented of a feud with a neighbor involving the first of 427 houses destroyed in the fire. Several public buildings were lost as well. The fire caused $250 million in damage; that amount would be roughly doubled when adjusted for inflation. The Santa Barbara Independent said the 40 acres of land that Ross owned at the end of 3.5 dirt road miles off of Old San Marcos Pass was auctioned to pay damages. The property sold for $380,000. David Middlecamp: 805-781-7942, @DavidMiddlecamp Photos From the Vault Visit www.sanluisobispo.com/photos-from-the-vault to see old photos and read selected archives.


--- [Painted Cave Fire - Wikipedia] ---
The Painted Cave Fire was a devastating wildfire in June, 1990 that burned in the Santa Ynez Mountains and the city of Santa Barbara, within Santa Barbara County, California.
The fire, which began near Painted Cave, was intentionally set near the intersection of Highway 154 (San Marcos Pass Road) and Painted Cave Road, burned 5,000 acres (20 km2), destroyed 427 buildings, and resulted in two deaths.


--- [A Final Flare-Up From Disastrous 1990 Fire - Los Angeles Times] ---
A Final Flare-Up From Disastrous 1990 Fire - Share via SANTA BARBARA — They were two of the most destructive hours in California history. Between 6 and 8 p.m. on a blistering day--June 27, 1990--a wind-whipped inferno roared out of the rugged hills above town, destroying 427 homes and 11 public buildings, including the Honor Farm jail. Miraculously, but still tragically, only one person died, a 37-year-old woman who vainly sought shelter from the flames in a creek behind her house. The $250-million Painted Cave arson fire went unsolved for a decade. But a judge is now considering whether to impose a $2.8-million penalty on a self-described artist/inventor found liable for starting the fire as part of a long-running feud with a neighbor. Judge Denise deBellefeuille’s ruling, expected this week, may write the final chapter in a tangled saga of petty backwoods rivalries that allegedly raged out of control and threatened an entire city. But it probably won’t satisfy people who remember the terror of that blaze, which one resident called “as close to Armageddon as I want to get.” They will no doubt feel that Lenny Ross got away with murder. Or at least that he got off light by escaping a jail sentence. As with O.J. Simpson, Ross was found culpable in a civil trial, after the county decided it did not have enough evidence to file a murder charge. Sheriff Jim Thomas said he is relieved that somebody is finally paying a price for the catastrophe, which sheriff’s officials said might be the “largest crime loss ever in the history of the United States.” Ross, 48, who earns a living making solar-powered butterflies and selling them at craft fairs, maintains his innocence. He said the fire was pinned on him as part of a conspiracy to steal his land. “My biggest problem,” he said in a parched, low voice in an interview at an IHOP restaurant, “is my story is so fantastic, who’s going to believe it?” He was right about one thing. It was about the land, the love of it, the lust for it, and the willingness to fight to preserve it. * Calls about disputes between neighbors, said Sheriff Thomas, are among the most unpleasant a cop receives. They’re usually over things that seem trivial--but are anything but to the people involved. “There is tremendous hate in these situations,” Thomas said. And so it was up in the hills of Los Padres National Forest north of Santa Barbara. Over the years, a number of reclusive types had moved in and scraped out a living in the steep, poison ivy-covered landscape below San Marcos Pass. Lenny Ross had 40 acres at the end of a tortuous, 3 1/2-mile dirt lane winding through a steep canyon. Ross is not a muscular man; he stands about medium height, has long hair in a knot behind his head and a full beard. He has an intense, sidelong way of looking at you, and that morning at IHOP he wore a wrinkled white shirt and carried a backpack that made him look more like an overage college student than a figure of infamy. Though not physically imposing, he is good with his hands. He rebuilt an old shack into a serviceable house. A short distance away is a concrete bunker-like shed where he assembles his butterflies, whose wings flap under power provided by a solar cell. Ross values--and guards--his privacy. When a visitor hiked in to see him last week, he was warned to “shout out” as he approached to avoid being shot. Many of the arguments that flared up among Ross and his neighbors were over one thing: the dirt road that was their lifeline to the outside world. There were complaints, according to officials, that Ross left cars and other junk on the road. One time, the Sheriff’s Department was called to settle a dispute over work that Ross and others were doing on a bridge spanning a creek on someone else’s property. Ross filed suit against an avocado ranch he said had drained the ground water. But the man with whom Ross had the most serious problems was Michael Linthicum. By 1996, sheriff’s officials had documented 22 complaints between the two. Ross said that his phone line was cut repeatedly, that dirt was put into the gas tank of his tractor and that the lug nuts on his car were loosened. Linthicum, who has lived in the area for 26 years, is wary when he talks about Ross. “It’s sad that there are people like that,” he said. Just four months before the fire, Linthicum’s property insurance lapsed. Ross heard about that, said a former girlfriend who later testified against him. According to a search warrant affidavit, Peggy Finley said Ross was so frustrated by the long-running conflict with his neighbor that he talked about killing Linthicum. One plan, Finley said, involved his taking Linthicum up in a 1946 Cessna that Ross kept at the Santa Barbara Airport and pushing him out once they were over the sea. A 106-Degree Day in a Drought Year In 1990, Southern California was laboring through a drought year. In the mountains above Santa Barbara, the brush was dry as tinder and thick with 35 years of growth since the last fire. On June 27, the temperature topped out at 106. The fire started about 6 p.m., near Old San Marcos Road and California 154, the back route into Santa Barbara from the Santa Ynez wine country. It was also near Linthicum’s property. Pushed by high winds, the fire whipped into an inferno. Both of Linthicum’s houses were destroyed, while Ross’ property, which lay upwind of the fire, was untouched. The fire raced into the lower, more densely populated region in minutes. Buildings were consumed faster than they could be counted. The fire burned the Honor Farm, a laundry building and a dozen businesses. At 7:42 p.m., flames jumped U.S. 101. In less than two hours, the Painted Cave fire had raced 3.8 miles from the mountains to the Pacific. The state fire marshal called it the “fastest-moving fire of its type ever in the United States.” At 8 p.m., winds subsided and firefighters gained the upper hand. The sun rose the next day on an apocalyptic scene. Over much of the burn zone, all that remained were charred cars and chimneys looking like isolated sentries. The body of Andrea Lang Gurka, a local artist, was found in a creek the next day. An arson task force was formed. Investigators were not just seeking a fire bug but, with Gurka’s death, a killer. The inquiry went on until, in the words of the “after-action report,” “every possible lead was exhausted.” After Five Years, a Secret Shared That’s how things stood for more than five years. Gurka’s husband, Michael, started a scholarship fund; Linthicum and the others rebuilt. Santa Barbara moved on. Then Finley shared a secret with her minister in Northern California: A man she used to live with claimed he started a big fire in Santa Barbara. Finley lived with Ross for five years, but they had broken up acrimoniously and were engaged in a child custody dispute, according to court documents. Finley said Ross told her about the fire one night when they were making love while high on Ecstasy. All he wanted to do, she said, was burn out the hated Linthicum, but the fire “got out of hand.” After some discussion, Finley signed a waiver of confidentiality, freeing the minister to tell a church lawyer, who contacted authorities in Santa Barbara. The case was reopened. This time, Sheriff Thomas put top homicide investigators in charge. Ross told detectives that he spent the day of the fire riding his bicycle along the beach and working on his plane at the airport. But investigators believed that they could link Ross to the fire through Finley’s account, as well as his blue 1982 Subaru. Witnesses saw a similar car parked where the fire started. A woman named Melinda Miller said she saw a man in a blue cap at the wheel. When detectives searched Ross’ property, they said, they found a blue ball cap in his shed. Sparing no expense, detectives flew in a noted police sketch artist to work with Miller. To some, the sketch looked just like Ross; others weren’t sure. There were additional bits of evidence, but the case was old and memories had faded. When detectives went to Dist. Atty. Tom Sneddon, he refused to file murder charges. He didn’t believe they had a strong enough case to convince a jury. Sheriff Thomas disagreed with his good friend Sneddon. “I believe there was enough” to go to trial, he said. “But I don’t have to try it.” In all probability, that would have been the end of the Painted Cave fire case, had Ross not sued the county over the search of his property. Frustrated county officials sued him right back for the costs of fighting the fire and the loss of county property. This tactic made it much easier to connect the fire to Ross. In criminal court, a verdict must be unanimous and the jury must be convinced of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. In civil court, the jury would only have to believe that a preponderance of evidence indicated Ross started the fire. A 9-3 vote is all it takes to find someone liable. By the time of trial this summer, the judge had thrown out Ross’ complaints, so all that was left was the county’s suit. What sealed his fate, observers said, was not evidence but his conduct on the stand. “He was his usual smarmy, smirky self,” said Jake Stoddard, the dapper attorney who handled the county’s case. Under Stoddard’s prodding, Ross lost his temper and showed the jury a darker side. He also hurt himself when he talked about being accused of other felonies. That allowed Stoddard to introduce testimony from another former girlfriend, who said Ross told her he set a fire at a motorcycle shop he owned in 1978. After a two-week trial, the jury found Ross culpable by a vote of 9 to 3. Hanging over the Ross trial was the ghost of the O.J. Simpson case. After Simpson was acquitted in criminal court, he was found liable for the deaths of Ronald Lyle Goldman and Nicole Brown Simpson in a civil trial. The difference is that then, the victims’ families were the plaintiffs. In the Painted Cave fire case, the government went after Ross in civil court without bothering to file criminal charges. As a result, Ross now finds himself identified as the man behind a horrific crime even though the district attorney felt the evidence was too weak to convict. Ross’ attorney, Barbara Carroll, called the tactic “rather unusual.” USC law professor Michael Brennan said he has no quarrel with the county “defending itself.” “If [Ross] hadn’t sued first, none of this would have happened,” Stoddard said. Now Ross faces the loss of the one thing he fought so hard to protect--his land. The county’s request for $2.8 million, filed Friday, includes the loss of the Honor Farm, the laundry building and $400,000 worth of county vehicles. Carroll said Ross can’t pay. He has no real assets except the land, she said, and that is so remote it won’t command anything like the prices of property in Santa Barbara. Some in town say Ross was hoist on his own petard. Asked if it was a mistake to sue, he said: “I don’t regret suing. I don’t want to be in the position I’m in, but every man should stand up.” Sheriff Thomas, for one, is convinced Ross did it. “There is no doubt in my mind Lenny Ross started that fire,” he said. He does have one regret, though. He believes he should have put his homicide detectives in charge back in 1990. Though Sneddon could still file charges, some evidence used in the civil case can’t be admitted in a criminal trial. “He should be in prison,” Thomas said of Ross. “And he won’t be unless something else comes up.” Still, the civil court ruling satisfied the sheriff. “No matter what we do, we can’t bring back the dead. But it’s important for the community to know we haven’t given up.” The man who lost the most, however, remains unsatisfied. If Ross killed Andrea, why is he still walking around? asked Michael Gurka. And there’s where the comparison to the Simpson case collapses. “I don’t think people are worried about [Simpson] killing their wives.” In Santa Barbara, he said, 100,000 people are left wondering “if there’s somebody up there [in the hills] who might start a fire.” (BEGIN TEXT OF INFOBOX / INFOGRAPHIC) Santa Barbara Fire The 1990 Painted Cave fire in Santa Barbara killed one person and destroyed 427 homes, causing $250 million in damage.
