=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Israel PM List: Prime Ministers of Israel till 2025 from 1948]
Jun 19, 2025 · He is the longest-serving prime minister since Israel gained its independence, having held the position three times (1996–99, 2009–21, and 2022– Present).
URL: https://www.jagranjosh.com/general-knowledge/list-of-prime-ministers-of-israel-1820000091-1

[Netanyahu officially makes Israeli history as longest-serving prime ...]
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu officially surpassed founding father David Ben-Gurion as Israel's longest-serving prime minister on Saturday, having notched up a list of diplomatic and ...
URL: https://www.timesofisrael.com/netanyahu-officially-makes-israeli-history-as-longest-serving-prime-minister/

[List of prime ministers of Israel | Names & Years | Britannica]
This is a list of prime ministers of Israel organized chronologically from earliest to most recent.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/topic/list-of-prime-ministers-of-Israel-2049993

[Benjamin Netanyahu: Israel's Longest-Serving Prime Minister and the ...]
Dec 16, 2025 · Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving leader, has clung to power through corruption scandals, extremist alliances, and the devastating Gaza war — a relentless pursuit of survival that has reshaped Israel’s democracy, its global standing, and the future of the Middle East.
URL: https://theminuteman.org/benjamin-netanyahu-israels-prime-minister/

[Benjamin Netanyahu]
Benjamin "Bibi" Netanyahu [a] (born 21 October 1949) is an Israeli politician and diplomat who has served as Prime Minister of Israel since 2022
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Netanyahu


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Israel PM List: Prime Ministers of Israel till 2025 from 1948] ---
Israel is a Middle Eastern country that is located close to the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea. It shares borders with Egypt to the southwest, Jordan to the east and southeast, Syria to the northeast, Lebanon to the north, and the Mediterranean Sea to the west. The designated capital and seat of government is Jerusalem, albeit the latter designation has not gained widespread international recognition. Israel is a small country with a rather diverse topography, which includes a lengthy coastal plain in the middle, highlands in the north, and the Negev desert in the south. The northern end of the Great Rift Valley stretches along the country's eastern border, running from north to south. Who is the Head of State in Israel? The Prime Minister is the State of Israel's head of state and the chief executive of the State. However, the designation of the head of state of the parliamentary republic of Israel is bestowed upon the president. The president mostly has ceremonial powers, although the prime minister has executive authority. The prime minister's official residence, Beit Aghion, is situated in Jerusalem. How is the Prime Minister Elected in Israel? Following an election, the president confers with party leaders regarding potential candidates before selecting a member of the Knesset to serve as prime minister. The first nominee the president appoints has 28 days to form a solid coalition. To become prime minister, he then needs to be elected by the Knesset with a vote of confidence. List of Prime Ministers of Israel | Name | Political Party | Term of Office | | David Ben-Gurion | Mapai | 14 May 1948 – 26 January 1954 | | Moshe Sharett | Mapai | 26 January 1954 – 3 November 1955 | | David Ben-Gurion | Mapai | 3 November 1955 – 26 June 1963 | | Levi Eshkol | Mapai | 26 June 1963 – 26 February 1969 | | Yigal Allon (Acting) | Alignment / Labour | 26 February 1969 – 17 March 1969 | | Golda Meir | Alignment / Labour | 17 March 1969 – 3 June 1974 | | Yitzhak Rabin | Alignment / Labour | 3 June 1974 – 20 June 1977 | | Menachem Begin | Herut / Likud | 20 June 1977 – 10 October 1983 | | Yitzhak Shamir | Herut / Likud | 10 October 1983 – 13 September 1984 | | Shimon Peres | Alignment / Labour | 13 September 1984 – 20 October 1986 | | Yitzhak Shamir | Herut / Likud | 20 October 1986 – 13 July 1992 | | Yitzhak Rabin | Labour | 13 July 1992 – 4 November 1995 | | Shimon Peres | Labour | 4 November 1995 – 18 June 1996 | | Benjamin Netanyahu | Likud | 18 June 1996 – 6 July 1999 | | Ehud Barak | One Israel / Labour | 6 July 1999 – 7 March 2001 | | Ariel Sharon | Likud (until 2005), Kadima (2005–06) | 7 March 2001 – 14 April 2006 | | Ehud Olmert | Kadima | 14 April 2006 – 31 March 2009 | | Benjamin Netanyahu | Likud | 31 March 2009 – 13 June 2021 | | Naftali Bennett | Yamina | 13 June 2021 – 30 June 2022 | | Yair Lapid | Yesh Atid | 1 July 2022 – 29 December 2022 | | Benjamin Netanyahu | Likud | 29 December 2022 – Present | Who is the Current PM of Israel? Benjamin Netanyahu is an Israeli politician and diplomat who was born in Tel Aviv (now Tel Aviv–Yafo) on October 21, 1949. He is the longest-serving prime minister since Israel gained its independence, having held the position three times (1996–99, 2009–21, and 2022– Present). Netanyahu's reputation as one of the most influential people in the nation's history was solidified by his political resilience and skill at forming alliances. In the midst of the Oslo peace process, he became well-known as a driven security hawk and utilized his persuasive speech to resist international pressure for a two-state solution with the Palestinians.


--- [Netanyahu officially makes Israeli history as longest-serving prime ...] ---
Netanyahu officially makes Israeli history as longest-serving prime minister As of Saturday, 69-year-old premier has served as nation’s leader for a total of 4,876 days, overtaking founding father David Ben-Gurion Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu officially surpassed founding father David Ben-Gurion as Israel’s longest-serving prime minister on Saturday, having notched up a list of diplomatic and economic successes but with right-wing leadership many see as deeply divisive. The 69-year-old Netanyahu has been Israel’s prime minister for a total of 4,876 days, over 13 years, according to a calculation by the Israel Democracy Institute think tank. He was first at the helm between 1996-1999, and then again since 2009. His latest apparent victory in April elections turned sour after he failed to form a coalition government and opted to move towards new elections instead. He faces the new general election on September 17 while under threat of possible corruption charges in the months ahead, including for allegedly receiving pricey cigars and champagne in return for favors. Netanyahu’s legion of supporters in Israel point to what they see as his effective management of a small country in a volatile region, a series of diplomatic breakthroughs and the country’s growing economy. His many critics say he has demonized political opponents and Israel’s Arab minority by embracing populism and has too often put his personal ambitions above the long-term good of the country. He has sought to sideline Israel’s continuing control over Palestinian territory and has been backed in that strategy by US President Donald Trump’s administration, which has swung American policy firmly in Israel’s favor. In tandem, Netanyahu has tried to leverage the common concerns of Israel and Gulf Arab states about Iran into improved ties in the region — and has had some success. He has never been at a loss for words in describing what he sees as his achievements. “We’ve proven that Israel can be turned from a small country that is situated in the corner of the Middle East into a major power in the world,” he told the strongly pro-Netanyahu Israel Hayom newspaper in an interview this week. The popular image of the man he is now surpassing in some ways stands in sharp contrast to that of “Bibi,” Netanyahu’s nickname since childhood. ‘Always beyond reproach’ Ben-Gurion, who led the socialist Mapai party that declared Israel’s independence in 1948, lived a spartan lifestyle that reflected his generation’s sense of mission, said Peter Medding of Hebrew University in Jerusalem and whose books include “The Founding of Israeli Democracy 1948-1967.” “They saw themselves as committed to the communal good,” said Medding. War with Israel’s Arab neighbors surrounded the founding of the state, and the political establishment realized that “unless the collective interest gets looked after, promoted and strengthened, there’ll be no individual interests,” he added. Netanyahu, the son of a historian clearly mindful of his legacy, has in the past compared himself to Ben-Gurion, though the two emerged from two different strains of Israeli ideology. Comparing the two is tough both due to their very different eras and Ben-Gurion’s heroic stature, said Shmuel Sandler, a political science professor emeritus from Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv. “A founding father is always beyond reproach,” he said. But one trait that Netanyahu does share with Ben-Gurion is a sense of history, said Sandler. “They both have a historic point of view,” he said, noting Ben-Gurion’s self-documentation in diaries and Netanyahu’s allusions to history and historic events in his speeches. One of Netanyahu’s main agendas has been preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. That in some ways also links the two leaders, Sandler said. Only several years after the Holocaust, Ben-Gurion did what he could to pursue a nuclear option for Israel to prevent another genocide of the Jewish people. In the current era, “Bibi is trying to ensure that the option remains in Israel’s hands only” in the Middle East, he said. Israel is widely perceived as the Middle East’s sole nuclear-armed power, though it has never acknowledged the capability. Tough talk, less tough action A gifted orator in both English and Hebrew, he was elected for a single term in the late 1990s on a platform of opposing the Oslo accords with the Palestinians. But once in office, he continued implementing them and even met with arch-enemy Yasser Arafat. As finance minister in the early 2000s, he cut taxes and rolled back entitlements to the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community — only to reverse course once he returned to power to secure their political backing. He wrote counter-terrorism books in which he preached that one must never negotiate under threat, but as prime minister he released more than 1,000 Palestinian terror convicts in exchange for a single captive Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, in 2011. Despite his tough talk, Netanyahu has shown relative moderation when it comes to using military force. Over the past year, he has resisted calls by hardline constituents to strike harder against jihadist groups in Gaza. Challenges ahead Few believe Netanyahu will decide on his own to end his premiership anytime soon, even with a possible indictment looming. He will not be required to step down if indicted, only if convicted with all appeals exhausted, though he would likely face heavy political pressure. Sandler predicted “he won’t exit in a dignified way.” “People don’t know how to quit when they’re at their peak,” he said, speaking not only of Netanyahu but of past Israeli prime ministers as well. So far he has persevered through scandals, crises and conflicts, winning election after election even as the country grows more bitterly polarized. But with the failure to form a government putting a dent in his aura of invincibility, a new election around the corner that does not appear poised to leave him in a better political position, and the prospects of criminal proceedings on the near horizon, he may very well be facing his steepest challenge yet. The Times of Israel Community.


--- [List of prime ministers of Israel | Names & Years | Britannica] ---
list of prime ministers of Israel This is a list of prime ministers of Israel organized chronologically from earliest to most recent. - David Ben-Gurion (first time, 1948–53) - Moshe Sharett (1953–55) - David Ben-Gurion (second time, 1955–63) - Levi Eshkol (1963–69) - Golda Meir (1969–74) - Yitzhak Rabin (first time, 1974–77) - Menachem Begin (1977–83) - Yitzḥak Shamir (first time, 1983–84) - Shimon Peres (first time, 1984–86) - Yitzḥak Shamir (second time, 1986–92) - Yitzhak Rabin (second time, 1992–95) - Shimon Peres (second time, 1995–96) - Benjamin Netanyahu (first time, 1996–99) - Ehud Barak (1999–2001) - Ariel Sharon (2001–06) - Ehud Olmert (2006–09) - Benjamin Netanyahu (second time, 2009–21) - Naftali Bennett (2021–22) - Yair Lapid (2022) - Benjamin Netanyahu (third time, 2022– ) The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen.


--- [Benjamin Netanyahu: Israel's Longest-Serving Prime Minister and the ...] ---
Benjamin Netanyahu: Israel’s Longest-Serving Prime Minister and the Cost of His Power Benjamin “Bibi” Netanyahu has dominated Israeli politics for nearly three decades—Israel’s longest-serving prime minister, and a man who built his career on the promise that only he could keep the nation safe. Yet as Israel endures its longest and bloodiest conflict, critics argue his determination to stay in power has left the country—and the region—more unstable than ever. A Career Defined by Strength and Survival Netanyahu first rose to prominence in the 1990s, portraying himself as Israel’s uncompromising defender. His supporters hailed him as a strongman willing to defy international pressure; his detractors called him manipulative and self-serving. Either way, his brand stuck. Since 1996, he has held power on and off for 17 of the last 30 years, surviving scandals, indictments, and elections that would have ended most political careers. Even after presiding over the longest and deadliest war in Israel’s history, polls show his governing coalition would lose if elections were held today. Many within Israel’s establishment have turned on him: one former ambassador to Washington called Netanyahu “unable to distinguish between personal and political interests,” while a sitting minister described him as “a danger to the state of Israel.” Still, Netanyahu has always found a way back. He’s been unseated twice and returned each time—largely by convincing Israelis that only he can keep them secure, and by reminding Washington that, in his own words to settlers in 2001, “America can be easily pushed.” Ideological Roots and Early Rise Netanyahu’s worldview was shaped early. His father, historian Benzion Netanyahu, was a leading proponent of Revisionist Zionism—a hard-line belief in Jewish self-determination through military strength. After spending part of his youth in the United States, where he attended high school in Philadelphia under the name Ben Nitay, Netanyahu learned to defend Israel’s actions on American television with calm fluency. The 1976 death of his brother Yoni Netanyahu, a commander killed leading the famous Entebbe hostage-rescue raid, further solidified his image as part of a family bound to Israel’s security narrative. Returning home, Netanyahu entered diplomacy, served as Israel’s ambassador to the United Nations, and soon climbed to the leadership of the right-wing Likud party. The Oslo Years and the Rabin Assassination In the mid-1990s, Netanyahu made his name opposing the Oslo Accords, which sought peace between Israel and the Palestinians. He led angry rallies against then-Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, where protesters burned Rabin’s image in a Nazi uniform and chanted for his death. When Rabin was assassinated in 1995 by a far-right Israeli, Rabin’s widow blamed Netanyahu for stoking the hatred that preceded the killing. Netanyahu denied responsibility, though video footage shows him leading a mock funeral procession with a coffin labeled “Rabin kills Zionism.” A wave of Hamas suicide bombings the following year shifted public opinion toward security over reconciliation. Netanyahu was elected prime minister for the first time in 1996. Building Power Abroad: The U.S. and the Abraham Accords Over the decades, Netanyahu cultivated close ties with Republican administrations, particularly Donald Trump’s, during which he achieved what he called his greatest diplomatic success—the Abraham Accords. The agreements normalized relations with several Arab states, including the UAE and Bahrain, without requiring progress toward a Palestinian state. Netanyahu’s intent was clear: by securing peace deals with Arab neighbors first, he could sideline the Palestinians and eliminate pressure to negotiate over statehood. Critics warned the strategy would entrench Palestinian marginalization—a prediction that has largely borne out. Corruption Trials and a Family Under Fire While projecting strength abroad, Netanyahu faced three criminal cases at home: bribery, fraud, and breach of trust. - The first involves $300,000 in luxury gifts—including cigars and champagne—from wealthy businessmen, allegedly tracked using code words like “leaves” and “roses.” - The others center on claims that Netanyahu traded regulatory favors for positive coverage from major news outlets, including the digital portal Walla. The site’s former editor described receiving specific photo requests from Netanyahu and his wife Sara, using “parsley” as code for adding flattering images. He denies all wrongdoing, but the trials have dragged for years; a conviction could carry up to ten years in prison. Sara Netanyahu’s own controversies have compounded his troubles. She has twice paid damages for abusive treatment of staff and once pleaded guilty to misuse of public funds after spending roughly $100,000 on catered meals. Other expenses, including scented candles and a $127,000 plane refit for a state trip, have fueled Israel’s tabloid frenzy. A Coalition of Extremes After being ousted in 2021, Netanyahu returned to power the following year—this time by forming a government reliant on the ultra-Orthodox and far-right ultranationalists. His cabinet now includes figures once considered beyond the pale: - Itamar Ben-Gvir, now national security minister, has multiple convictions for incitement and supporting a terrorist organization and is a vocal champion of the settler movement, which seeks to annex the occupied West Bank. - Bezalel Smotrich, finance minister, is a self-described “proud homophobe” who once declared, “There is no such thing as the Palestinian people.” He has defended the starvation of civilians in Gaza as potentially “just and moral” and openly calls for annexation of Palestinian land. Their influence has pushed Israeli policy sharply rightward, particularly on issues of settlements, religion, and the judiciary. The Judicial Overhaul and Mass Protests In early 2023, Netanyahu introduced a sweeping plan to limit the Supreme Court’s oversight—a long-standing demand of both his far-right partners and ultra-Orthodox allies. Critics saw the move as an attempt to weaken checks on executive power while he faced corruption charges. The result was one of the largest protest movements in Israeli history, drawing hundreds of thousands, including reservists and Navy SEALs who declared the reforms a threat to democracy itself. The standoff revealed how polarized Israeli society had become under Netanyahu’s leadership. The October 7 Attack and the Gaza War On October 7, 2023, Hamas militants launched a surprise assault on southern Israel, killing about 1,200 people and abducting 251 hostages, including Israelis and foreign nationals. The attack plunged the region into war. Netanyahu’s Pre-War Policies Before the assault, Netanyahu had allowed Qatari funds to flow into Gaza, reasoning that a strong Hamas would weaken the Palestinian Authority and reduce pressure for statehood. Israeli journalists later reported that the money helped Hamas build tunnels and weapons used in the attack. Security officials had warned Netanyahu about Hamas’ growing threat. He dismissed the concerns, claiming the group was “deterred”—a grave misjudgment. The War’s Human Cost Israel’s response has devastated Gaza. According to Gaza’s health ministry, more than 68,600 people have been killed as of October 2025, including hundreds since the ceasefire began. The UN, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and other observers describe Israel’s actions as potential genocide, and the International Criminal Court has issued war-crimes warrants for Netanyahu and several Israeli officials. The BBC now reports that all 20 living hostages were released on 13 October 2025 under a U.S.-brokered ceasefire in exchange for 250 Palestinian prisoners and 1,718 detainees from Gaza. However, 11 deceased hostages—nine Israelis, one Tanzanian, and one Thai—remain in Gaza. The bodies of two hostages, Amiram Cooper (84) and Sahar Baruch (25), were recently returned via the Red Cross, while the families of others continue to demand their loved ones’ return for burial. Israel has so far handed over 225 Palestinian bodies in exchange for the 17 Israeli and foreign hostages returned by Hamas. The Politics of Perpetual War Netanyahu’s critics accuse him of prolonging the conflict to placate his far-right coalition and avoid losing power. Reports show he has overridden military advice and broken ceasefires, blaming Hamas for conditions not in the agreements. Ministers like Smotrich have publicly threatened to collapse the government if the war paused. At a recent conference, Smotrich even described Gaza’s destruction as an “urban-renewal” project, discussing potential real-estate profits from redevelopment. His words underscored a government seemingly detached from the humanitarian catastrophe it helped create. Isolation Abroad and Anger at Home As civilian deaths mounted, even traditional allies grew wary. France, the UK, Canada, and Australia have all officially recognized a Palestinian state, leaving the United States as the only permanent U.N. Security Council member that has not. Within Israel, protests have continued. Demonstrators in Tel Aviv accuse Netanyahu of betraying soldiers and sending them to die for his political survival. Polls show his favorability among Americans has fallen to 29%, while 58% of U.S. respondents support Palestinian statehood. The Broader Context—and the Future To pin all of Israel’s actions on one man would be simplistic. The country’s deeper debates—about occupation, security, and Palestinian self-determination—run far beyond Netanyahu. But few dispute that his leadership has intensified the suffering in Gaza, strained alliances, and eroded Israel’s democratic fabric. The next Israeli election is scheduled for October 2026, though a collapse of his fragile coalition could trigger an earlier vote. For many Israelis, the question is no longer whether Netanyahu can protect them—but whether his quest to remain in power has become the nation’s greatest liability. The Bottom Line Benjamin Netanyahu’s political career is built on the idea that he alone can guarantee Israel’s survival. Yet after decades of wars, corruption scandals, and deepening extremism, his legacy looks less like security than perpetual crisis. If Israelis hope to rebuild trust, heal division, and bring the hostages home, it may begin not with another show of force—but with the end of the man who has ruled by it for nearly thirty years. Until then, expect the bloodshed—and the uncertainty—to continue.


--- [Benjamin Netanyahu] ---
Benjamin "Bibi" Netanyahu (born 21 October 1949) is an Israeli politician and diplomat who has served as Prime Minister of Israel since 2022. Having previously held office from 1996 to 1999 and from 2009 to 2021, Netanyahu is Israel's longest-serving prime minister.
Born in Tel Aviv, Netanyahu was raised in West Jerusalem and the United States. He returned to Israel in 1967 to join the Israel Defense Forces and served in the Sayeret Matkal special forces. In 1972, he returned to the US, and after graduating from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Netanyahu worked for the Boston Consulting Group. He moved back to Israel in 1978 and founded the Yonatan Netanyahu Anti-Terror Institute. Between 1984 and 1988 Netanyahu was Israel's ambassador to the United Nations. Netanyahu rose to prominence after his election as chair of Likud in 1993, becoming leader of the opposition. In the 1996 general election, Netanyahu became the first Israeli prime minister elected directly by popular vote. Netanyahu was defeated in the 1999 election and entered the private sector. He served as minister of foreign affairs and finance, initiating economic reforms, before resigning over the Gaza disengagement plan.
Netanyahu returned to lead Likud in 2005, leading the opposition between 2006 and 2009. After the 2009 legislative election, Netanyahu formed a coalition and became prime minister again. Netanyahu made his closeness to Donald Trump central to his appeal from 2016. During Trump's first presidency, the US recognized Jerusalem as capital of Israel, Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, and brokered the Abraham Accords between Israel and the Arab world. Netanyahu received criticism over expanding Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank, deemed illegal under international law. In 2019, Netanyahu was indicted on charges of breach of trust, bribery and fraud, and relinquished all ministerial posts except prime minister. The 2018–2022 Israeli political crisis resulted in a rotation agreement between Netanyahu and Benny Gantz. This collapsed in 2020, leading to a 2021 election. In June 2021, Netanyahu was removed from the premiership, before returning after the 2022 election.
Netanyahu's premierships have been criticized for perceived democratic backsliding and an alleged shift towards authoritarianism. Netanyahu's coalition pursued judicial reform, which was met with large-scale protests in early 2023. The October 7 attacks by Hamas-led Palestinian groups in the same year triggered the Gaza war, with Netanyahu facing nationwide protests for the security lapse and failure to secure the return of Israeli hostages. In October 2024, he survived an assassination attempt and ordered an invasion of Lebanon with the stated goal of destroying the military capabilities of Hezbollah, a key ally of Hamas. After the fall of the Assad regime in December 2024, Netanyahu directed an invasion of Syria. He also presided over the 2025 Israeli strikes on Iran, which escalated into the Iran–Israel war. In February 2026, he launched a major attack on Iran alongside the US with the stated goal of regime change.
Netanyahu's government has been orchestrating the genocide in Gaza, culminating in the South Africa v. Israel case before the International Court of Justice in December 2023. The International Criminal Court (ICC) issued an arrest warrant in November 2024 for Netanyahu for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity as part of the ICC investigation in Palestine.
