=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Paid Notice: Deaths LEONTIEF, ESTELLE MARKS - The New York Times]
Jul 1, 2005 · LEONTIEF--Estelle Marks, 97, died Tuesday, 28 June, 2005 from an unexpected and severe infection. Much loved wife of the late Wassily Leontief, mother of Svetlana Alpers, grandmother of Benjamin ...
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2005/07/01/classified/paid-notice-deaths-leontief-estelle-marks.html

[Svetlana Alpers - Wikipedia]
Svetlana Leontief Alpers (née Leontief; born February 10, 1936 [1]) is an American art historian, also a professor, writer and critic. [2] Her specialty is Dutch Golden Age painting, a field she revolutionized with her 1984 book The Art of Describing. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svetlana_Alpers

[on Roof Life by Svetlana Alpers - On the Seawall]
Sep 24, 2013 · Svetlana Alpers retired from teaching at Berkeley in 1999 as one of the most influential art historians of the previous three decades. A sentence in her new book, Roof Life, sums up a lifetime of viewing and writing about art: “The problem is not matching words to pictures, but rather how to keep the interest of looking alive and well.” Nevertheless, she is known for doing both. Perhaps ...
URL: https://www.ronslate.com/on-roof-life-by-svetlana-alpers-yale-university-press/

[Svetlana Alpers - design-encyclopedia.com]
Svetlana Alpers Svetlana Alpers is a renowned American artist best known for her contributions to contemporary art in the United States since the 1950s. Born in Berkeley, California in 1935, Alpers was exposed to artistic techniques from an early age. Her mother was a Russian immigrant who exposed Alpers to abstract painting, while her father was a musician and professor of sociology who ...
URL: https://design-encyclopedia.com/?T=Svetlana+Alpers

[Svetlana Leontief Alpers (born February 10, 1936), American art ...]
Background Alpers, Svetlana Leontief was born on February 10, 1936 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States. Daughter of Wassily W. Leontief and Estelle Marks Leontief. Education Bachelor, Radcliffe College, 1957. Doctor of Philosophy, Harvard University, 1965. Career From instructor to associate professor University California, Berkeley, 1962—1975, professor art history, 1975—1994 ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/svetlana_leontief.alpers/773847


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Paid Notice: Deaths LEONTIEF, ESTELLE MARKS - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Paid Notice: Deaths LEONTIEF, ESTELLE MARKS LEONTIEF--Estelle Marks, 97, died Tuesday, 28 June, 2005 from an unexpected and severe infection. Much loved wife of the late Wassily Leontief, mother of Svetlana Alpers, grandmother of Benjamin and Nicholas and also to their wives Karin and Kathryn, great-grandmother of Noah, Mira, Alina and Isaac, loving sister to the late Dorothy Wigderson. Author, reader, devoted to her piano, deeply engaged friend to so many. It is hard to believe that such a vigorous human presence is gone. She will be greatly missed. A version of this article appears in print on , Section B, Page 8 of the National edition with the headline: Paid Notice: Deaths LEONTIEF, ESTELLE MARKS. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Related Content Advertisement


--- [Svetlana Alpers - Wikipedia] ---
Svetlana Leontief Alpers (née Leontief; born February 10, 1936) is an American art historian, also a professor, writer and critic. Her specialty is Dutch Golden Age painting, a field she revolutionized with her 1984 book The Art of Describing.  She has also written on Tiepolo, Rubens, Bruegel, and Velázquez, among others.


--- [on Roof Life by Svetlana Alpers - On the Seawall] ---
Svetlana Alpers retired from teaching at Berkeley in 1999 as one of the most influential art historians of the previous three decades. A sentence in her new book, Roof Life, sums up a lifetime of viewing and writing about art: “The problem is not matching words to pictures, but rather how to keep the interest of looking alive and well.” Nevertheless, she is known for doing both. Perhaps that sentence was written where she has lived for the past 14 years, a top-floor loft in a nineteenth century industrial building in Manhattan. From this aerie, looking across the city’s roof life “instead of street life,” she continues to instruct on how to look at things. In The Vexations of Art (2005), Alpers studied the rise of studio art from Velázquez to Manet. The studio, she said, both compelled and limited a certain “restlessness in the artist’s relationship to the world,” setting conditions for focusing “on the constraints under which knowledge is achieved.” Roof Life comprises a studio of her own, not for painting but for recording a way of seeing. Her roof life entails a certain distancing essential to vision. The “immediacy of distance” is also the telling element of art: “What does it take for something to strike one as a work of art? … In my experience, it is not a matter of familiarity, but rather of distance, an appearance of being strange.” For artist and viewer (and reader), detachment is tantamount to engagement. There is an apposite tang of removal in her posture and tone. Roof Life records many personal and family situations, and Alpers frequently quotes from her notebooks and correspondence. But she recoils from memoir (“I don’t think that lives need to be constructed in the form of a story”) while drawn to the episodic for paradigms. She says, “Confession is not to my taste” yet her candor is precise in its assessments. She will recall a hurt as if it were a tableau. The habit of persistence obviates the need for self-validation on the page. She is a model to be studied and copied, an observer who should be observed. Roof Life begins with “The Year 1905,” an essay about her paternal family’s experiences in Russia, Weimar and Nazi Germany, and ultimately, America. Alpers’ father was Wassily Leontief, a Nobel laureate in economics; her mother was the poet Estelle Marks. Digging into archives, the daughter now discovers certain facts about her family’s diasporic lives in Europe. She also writes about other exiled notables – Conrad, Nabokov, Serge. But her project isn’t biography. From the distance of the present, she peers at the removals in the past. Below, she speaks of her grandparents: “It was a year of pain and terrible upheaval not only for the two of them but also for Russia. The evidence is, however, that people, or at least people like these two, can go on with their lives through and despite and apparently untouched by tumultuous times. It was simply a coincidence, then, that reveals little about the relationship between public events and private lives. So it also can be with the making of art. How astonishing to read, as I did only recently, that the fabled production of Parade on 18 May 1917 – Cocteau, Massine, Satie, Apollinaire, Picasso all working together to make a new art – took place while some of the bloodiest battles of World War I were in progress nearby to the north and east of Paris. What is to be made of it?” Generally, Alpers successfully manages her book’s subtle resonances – such that when in “Roof Life” she describes the sight of the Twin Towers falling (from her perch, a here-and-gone soundless flicker seen between buildings), the reader feels the chilled presence of the past century’s catastrophes casting a shadow across the page. There are many fine observations and anecdotes. But there are segments of flat narrative as well where that mysterious whiff of strange distancing dissipates. Looking out her window, she evokes Hitchcock’s Rear Window, the Hollywood set of which was based on an apartment courtyard nearby. In the third essay, “Sightings,” she describes the selling of a Rothko that had been cherished by her family, as well as the selling of her house in Berkeley. In both cases, her aim is to get at the painful sense of distancing from loved and valued objects. The effect is both moving and surgical. In “Stalking Food,” she writes about shopping and cooking, mainly during her long stays in France. It is all about noticing. And then, the clincher: “What I called aesthetic is, at least in part, what offers you a way to control your passions, to channel them so that they do not overwhelm. I do not find real life (whatever that may be) through cooking, but instead a settling or ordering of it.” In the remarkable final essay, she narrates two instances of posing for different artists. She writes, “Being seen helps one to accept oneself,” though she has no interest in telling us what, if anything, she has found unacceptable in herself, and we (if attention has been paid) may now appreciate standing at a distance from her. When the first painter abruptly ends their session, frustrated with the results, “that rejection as such mattered less to me than the curious feeling of being seen.” Roof Life stimulates the eyes while appealing to the intelligence. “Much of one’s attention to the world these days,” she says, “goes into blocking things out.” This teacher of looking gives us profound counsel – and in the process, she has been seen. [Published by Yale University Press on August 20, 2013. 254 pages, $28.00 hardcover]


--- [Svetlana Alpers - design-encyclopedia.com] ---
Svetlana Alpers is an American art historian and artist who has made significant contributions to the field of art history. She was born in 1936 in Berkeley, California, and grew up in a family that valued art and music. Alpers received her undergraduate degree from Radcliffe College and her Ph.D. from Harvard University. She has taught at numerous universities, including the University of California, Berkeley, and Yale University. Alpers is best known for her work on Dutch painting of the 17th century, particularly the work of Rembrandt. She has written extensively on the subject, including her influential book, The Art of Describing: Dutch Art in the Seventeenth Century (1983). In this book, Alpers argues that Dutch painting of the 17th century was not only a reflection of reality but also a construction of it. She contends that Dutch painters used various techniques to create the illusion of reality, such as the use of light and shadow, and that these techniques were not simply imitations of nature but rather artistic inventions. In addition to her work on Dutch painting, Alpers has also written on contemporary art. She is known for her interest in the relationship between art and the viewer, and she has explored this theme in her writing on contemporary artists such as Gerhard Richter and Bruce Nauman. Alpers has also exhibited her own artwork, which includes paintings and prints. Svetlana Alpers, American, art historian, artist, Dutch painting, Rembrandt, illusion of reality, contemporary art, Gerhard Richter, Bruce Nauman, exhibition Svetlana Alpers is a renowned American artist best known for her contributions to contemporary art in the United States since the 1950s. Born in Berkeley, California in 1935, Alpers was exposed to artistic techniques from an early age. Her mother was a Russian immigrant who exposed Alpers to abstract painting, while her father was a musician and professor of sociology who inspired her to explore the connections between music and art. Alpers' art is often considered to be a form of realism, as she is known for creating works that suggest everyday life. Notable works of hers include the large-scale abstract painting, “Blue Room” (1956); the painting, “X and Y” (1966); and the environmental installation, “Beach with Figures” (1971). Alpers has also written numerous books on art, including her seminal work, “The Making of Rubens” (1983), which won the 1984 Pulitzer Prize for Art History. Svetlana Alpers, American artist, painting, realism, abstraction, installation, environment. — Mei Wang We have 216.553 Topics and 472.819 Entries and Svetlana Alpers has 2 entries on Design+Encyclopedia. Design+Encyclopedia is a free encyclopedia, written collaboratively by designers, creators, artists, innovators and architects. Become a contributor and expand our knowledge on Svetlana Alpers today.


--- [Svetlana Leontief Alpers (born February 10, 1936), American art ...] ---
Background Alpers, Svetlana Leontief was born on February 10, 1936 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States. Daughter of Wassily W. Leontief and Estelle Marks Leontief. (Reconsiders the concensus on Rubens as a successful, prol...) Reconsiders the concensus on Rubens as a successful, prolific, and facile court painter who is dwarfed by the achievements of his near-contemporary Rembrandt. This book scrutinizes the assumptions upon which this image is built, and discovers an artist involved with ambivalence and ambiguity. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0300067445/?tag=2022091-20 (Tiepolo is a brilliant example of the specifically pictor...) Tiepolo is a brilliant example of the specifically pictorial intelligence. This book is both a study of his art and an argument for fuller recognition of the peculiarities of the painter's representational medium. Alpers and Baxandall locate distinctive modes of Tiepolo's representation of the world and human action; follow his process of invention from first pen drawings, through small oil sketches, to great frescoes; and analyse his best and biggest painting, the Four Continents in the Stairway Hall of the Prince-Bishop's Residence at Wurzburg, illustrated with photographs specially taken for the book. The topics taken up include: painting's resistance to enacted narrative drama, its engagement with indeterminacies and repetitions, the senses in which a painter may 'perform' both past art and himself, the constructive roles of gestural drawing, exploitation of shifts of scale between design and finished work, dialogue between the changing natural site lighting and in-picture lighting, contributions made by the beholder's own mobility, the expressive scope of tensions between two and three dimensions, the deep rationale of rococo formal structure, and the sources of the moral force of pictures without an explicit moral. The book - both art criticism and a practical polemic - ends with an annotated gazetteer for travellers, listing those Tiepolo paintings that can still be seen in the places and conditions for which he painted them. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0300068174/?tag=2022091-20 ( "The art historian after Erwin Panofsky and Ernst Gombr...) "The art historian after Erwin Panofsky and Ernst Gombrich is not only participating in an activity of great intellectual excitement; he is raising and exploring issues which lie very much at the centre of psychology, of the sciences and of history itself. Svetlana Alpers's study of 17th-century Dutch painting is a splendid example of this excitement and of the centrality of art history among current disciples. Professor Alpers puts forward a vividly argued thesis. There is, she says, a truly fundamental dichotomy between the art of the Italian Renaissance and that of the Dutch masters. . . . Italian art is the primary expression of a 'textual culture,' this is to say of a culture which seeks emblematic, allegorical or philosophical meanings in a serious painting. Alberti, Vasari and the many other theoreticians of the Italian Renaissance teach us to 'read' a painting, and to read it in depth so as to elicit and construe its several levels of signification. The world of Dutch art, by the contrast, arises from and enacts a truly 'visual culture.' It serves and energises a system of values in which meaning is not 'read' but 'seen,' in which new knowledge is visually recorded."—George Steiner, Sunday Times "There is no doubt that thanks to Alpers's highly original book the study of the Dutch masters of the seventeenth century will be thoroughly reformed and rejuvenated. . . . She herself has the verve, the knowledge, and the sensitivity to make us see familiar sights in a new light."—E. H. Gombrich, New York Review of Books http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0226015130/?tag=2022091-20 (Tiepolo is an example of the specifically pictorial intel...) Tiepolo is an example of the specifically pictorial intelligence. This book is both a study of his art and an argument for fuller recognition of the peculiarities of the painters' representational medium. Svetlana Alpers and Michael Baxandall locate distinctive modes of Tiepolo's representation of the world and human action; follow his process of invention from first pen drawings through small oil-sketches to great frescoes; and analyze his best and biggest painting, the "Four Continents", in the Stairway Hall of the Prince-Bishop's Residence at Wurzburg, which is illustrated with photographs specially taken for the book. The topics taken up include: painting's resistance to enacted narrative drama, its engagement with indeterminacies and repetitions, the senses in which painters may "perform" both past art and themselves, the constructive roles of gestural drawing, the exploitation of shifts of scale between design and finished work, the dialogue between the changing natural site lighting and in-picture lighting, contributions made by the beholder's own mobility, the expressive scope of tensions between two and three dimensions, the deep rationale of rococo formal structure, and the sources of the moral force of pictures that lack an explicit moral. The book - both art criticism and a practical polemic - ends with an annotated gazetteer for travellers, listing those Tiepolo paintings that can still be seen in the places and conditions for which he painted them. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0300059787/?tag=2022091-20 (After discussing details of the commission, the author co...) After discussing details of the commission, the author compares the series with the tradition of illustrated editions of Ovid's Metamorphoses, dealing with the same subjects. Next Professor Alpers attempts to reconstruct the assemblage of the works constituting the decoration of the hunting lodge and draws attention to the Ovidian myths. A 'Catalogue raisonne' concludes the work. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0714814032/?tag=2022091-20 ("The art historian after Erwin Panofsky and Ernst Gombric...) "The art historian after Erwin Panofsky and Ernst Gombrich is not only participating in an activity of great intellectual excitement; he is raising and exploring issues which lie very much at the centre of psychology, of the sciences and of history itself. Svetlana Alpers's study of 17th-century Dutch painting is a splendid example of this excitement and of the centrality of art history among curr... http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000OOT0B2/?tag=2022091-20 Alpers, Svetlana Leontief was born on February 10, 1936 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States. Daughter of Wassily W. Leontief and Estelle Marks Leontief. Bachelor, Radcliffe College, 1957. Doctor of Philosophy, Harvard University, 1965. From instructor to associate professor University California, Berkeley, 1962—1975, professor art history, 1975—1994. Visiting research professor department fine arts New York University, New York City, since 1999. Advisory board Women's Caucus for Art, 1974—1977. Co-chair Representations, 1983—1993. Advisory board History of the Human Sciences. Member United States National Committee on History of Art, 1975—1990. Representative of the visual arts Renaissance Society of America, 1976—1979. Member museum and history organizations panel National Endowment of the Humanities. Consultant National Public Radio, 1976—1980. Publications committee Jean Paul Getty Trust, 1984—1987, member senior fellowships committee, 1987—1990. Member board of advisors Center Advanced Studies in Visual Arts, 1989—1993. Advisory board Science in Context, —. Visitor Ecoles des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, Paris, 1991. ( "The art historian after Erwin Panofsky and Ernst Gombr...) ("The art historian after Erwin Panofsky and Ernst Gombric...) (After discussing details of the commission, the author co...) (Reconsiders the concensus on Rubens as a successful, prol...) (Tiepolo is a brilliant example of the specifically pictor...) (Tiepolo is an example of the specifically pictorial intel...) Fellow: American Association for the Advancement of Science. Member: Phi Beta Kappa. Married Paul Joel Alpers, January 31, 1958 (divorced ). Children: Benjamin, Nicholas.
