=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Prayas Nepal - Wikipedia]
Prayas Nepal is a non-profit, non-governmental organization in Nepal. It is registered with the District Administrative Office of Kathmandu. [1] Prayas Nepal aims to protect the rights of children and the underprivileged including orphans, women and elderly in Nepal by helping them to access essential services such as education and health care.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prayas_Nepal

[PRAYAS-Nepal Organization Profile]
Organization Profile Prayatnashil Community development Society (PRAYAS-Nepal) is a registered non-governmental and non-profit making, non religious service oriented district level organization. It is registered in District Administration Office Dhading in 2058 and affiliated in Social Welfare Council.
URL: https://www.en.prayashnepal.org.np/organization-profile.html

[Prayas Nepal Company Profile | Management and Employees List - Datanyze]
Prayas Nepal Profile and History Prayas Nepal is a non-governmental, non-profit organization dedicated to enhancing the living standards and dignity of destitute children, women, and senior citizens. Established in 2003, the organization focuses on educational support, women empowerment, community health initiatives, and disaster management.
URL: https://www.datanyze.com/companies/prayas-nepal/347506400

[5 Charities Operating in Nepal - The Borgen Project]
Jan 29, 2024 · Established in 2003, Prayas Nepal aims to improve the lives of those living in poverty in Nepal, particularly focusing on the welfare of children, with the charity’s initial project being a home for disadvantaged or orphaned children.
URL: https://borgenproject.org/charities-operating-in-nepal/

[Prayas Nepal Explained]
Prayas Nepal is a non-profit, non-governmental organization in Nepal. It is registered with the District Administrative Office of Kathmandu. [1] Prayas Nepal aims to protect the rights of children and the underprivileged including orphans, women and elderly in Nepal by helping them to access essential services such as education and health care. History and development June 2003: Prayas Nepal ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Prayas_Nepal/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Prayas Nepal - Wikipedia] ---
Prayas Nepal is a non-profit, non-governmental organization in Nepal. It is registered with the District Administrative Office of Kathmandu. Prayas Nepal aims to protect the rights of children and the underprivileged including orphans, women and elderly in Nepal by helping them to access essential services such as education and health care.


--- [PRAYAS-Nepal Organization Profile] ---
Prayatnashil Community development Society (PRAYAS-Nepal) is a registered non-governmental and non-profit making, non religious service oriented district level organization. It is registered in District Administration Office Dhading in 2058 and affiliated in Social Welfare Council. From of the very beginning of its inception, the organization has been organizing several activities to create awareness among marginalized and deprived people so that they are empowered to design their own future. Prayas Nepal has focused its activities in socio-economic well being of community people mainly from rural area and emphasizing deprived and marginalized groups. The organization has effectively carried out various projects with financial support from various agencies. During a decade lifespan, the organization has been extended its working area and focused on coordination, collaboration with local as well as district level line agencies to achieve the goal. Prayas Nepal has focused both formal and informal education, health sanitation awareness, Women health and Safe motherhood, income generation skill development and capacity development and empowerment of marginalized and deprived people, Dalit, Children and Women. Vision To determine the rights, ownership and regulation of stakeholder in sustainable development. Mission: Improve socio-economic well being of marginalized and deprived people through community empowerment. Goal: To make the uniformed, society with the accessibility of education, health ownership of each people who were educationally and economically backward making them claim their rights and responsibilities. Objectives: a. To uplift economic status of community people especially women, children marginalized and disadvantaged people and the people living in difficult circumstances, the specifies are to b. Facilitate poor and marginalized people for their economic, educational and social development. c. Enhance community people for drinking water, sanitation and income generation activities. d. Support to community women and children by providing various types of vocational, formal and non formal education, child rights education and skill development training. e. Facilitate village farmers to uplift their economic status by conducting sustainable agricultural program. f. Conduct advocacy campaign for human rights, child rights and women's rights protection. g. Mobilize local resource for community development and encourage community people for innovative activities. h. To increase the relation with national and international organizations and conduct the different programmes accordingly. Target Groups: Women, children, marginalized and deprived community. Working Strategy - Capacity development - Right base approach - Networking - Partnership - Do no harm - Empowerment - Enhance Quality - Promotion of best practice Policies: - Public avocation/discussion. - Development of human resources and resources mobilization. - Study and research. - Conduction of programme accessible to the service as well as resource stake holders group and organization. - Plans formulation, implementation and social auditing by the community. - Institutional development and conduction of ability increasing programmes. Core Values and Believes - PRAYASH embodies following values and believes that help to guide in its operation. These areas: - Equity and equality - Transparence - Participatory decision making - Trust - Cooperation - Respect - Dedication - Communication Organizational Policies: - Human resource policy - Financial policy - Program implementation policy - Strategic plan - Child protection policy - Communication Policy - Volunteer mobilization policy


--- [Prayas Nepal Company Profile | Management and Employees List - Datanyze] ---
Get 10 Free Leads on us Use our Chrome Extension & instantly connect with prospects Prayas Nepal Prayas Nepal is a non-governmental, non-profit organization dedicated to enhancing the living standards and dignity of destitute children, women, and senior citizens. Established in 2003, the organization focuses on educational support, women empowerment, community health initiatives, and disaster management. With over 17 years of experience, they strive to bring lasting improvements to the qualit y of life for marginalized groups. Their intended clients include impoverished families, elderly individuals, and children in need. ...Read MorePrayas Nepal Headquarters $495 K 7 2003 Here's a list of some of the top trending technologies and APIs used by Prayas Nepal. (2 Technologies) (1 Technologies) (1 Technologies) (1 Technologies) (1 Technologies) | Parameter | Sample Email | Percentage | | |---|---|---|---| | 1 | first | John@prayasnepal.org | | | 2 | first.last | John.Smith@prayasnepal.org | | | 3 | first + last | JohnSmith@prayasnepal.org | | | 4 | first_last | John_Smith@prayasnepal.org | | | 5 | last | Smith@prayasnepal.org |


--- [5 Charities Operating in Nepal - The Borgen Project] ---
5 Charities Operating in Nepal Nepal is a landlocked country in South Asia with a population of around 30 million people. However, Nepal is one of Asia’s poorest countries, with 17.4% of its population living in poverty as of 2021. There are various factors contributing to Nepal’s high poverty levels and slow-growing economy such as high unemployment rates, a lack of accessible education, food shortages, civil war and government corruption. According to the Asian Development Bank (ADB), there are approximately 60,000 charities/ non-governmental organizations (NGOs) operating in Nepal. Here are five charities operating in Nepal that are making a difference in the lives of the country’s poorest. The Small World The Small World supports local development projects across Nepal, focusing on improving childhood education, enhancing women’s rights and empowerment and supporting health care facilities. For instance, The Small World has established female education centers in rural Nepal, where young girls who are born into poverty are often at risk of trafficking, child marriage, violence, poor health, and subsequent poverty. In a country where more than 35% of women are illiterate, providing women with a formal education means they are more likely to acquire future employment and earn a living. Other projects include a health care facility providing free services to 32,000 people living in rural Nepal and the Friends of Arhaus Children’s Home which acts as a safe home to orphaned children in the Everest region, who would otherwise be subject to a life in poverty. Since its establishment, The Small World has built homes, classrooms and sanitation facilities, providing more than 300 families with clean water and educating more than 150 children. Nepal Water For Health Foundation In Nepal, “3.5 million people do not have access to basic water services” with a further 10.8 million people lacking access to adequate sanitation facilities. With more than 70% of all water facilities being contaminated with bacteria, water-related illness is a leading cause of death in Nepal. The Nepal Water for Health Foundation (NEWAH) aims to provide WASH facilities to Nepal’s poorest communities, “irrespective of gender, caste, class, and belief.” Since its establishment in 1992, NEWAH has provided WASH services to over 2.1 million people in Nepal through various projects such as community-led sanitation, improved menstrual hygiene and even helping communities adapt to natural disasters. As well as implementing clean water facilities in communities, NEWAH also educates Nepali citizens on proper hygiene and sanitation and researches developing new, innovative WASH technology to ensure sustainable water supplies in the future. The Nepal Red Cross Society As the largest humanitarian organization in Nepal, the Nepal Red Cross Society (NRCS) began its journey in 1963 and is an independent charity providing immediate relief to those who require it. The NRCS provides a wide range of short-term and long-term services such as emergency health care and immediate natural disaster relief, as well as supporting community development projects and fighting gender discrimination, poverty and inadequate health care services. In 2023, Nepal suffered major natural disasters in the form of earthquakes which caused a significant amount of damage. The NRCS helped ensure communities have sufficient emergency preparedness to minimize human suffering in the event of future disasters. For example, following the 2023 earthquake, the NRCS implemented the Earthquake Response Operation which efficiently deployed emergency services to most affected areas. Rural Women’s Network Nepal Established in 2007, Rural Women’s Network Nepal (RUWON) is a non-profit organization focussing on improving the lives of women in Nepal’s rural and poorest regions. According to RUWON Nepal, Nepalese society is “deeply patriarchal” and women are significantly more likely to be poor as well as face other human rights issues, suffer discrimination and have poor education. RUWON Nepal aims to reduce the size of such gender disparities and improve the status and rights of rural women across the country. RUWON Nepal has implemented means of providing rural women with education, such as funding and supporting the education of more than 300 girls in the Sindhuli district in Kathmandu. The organization is also providing financing for women to set up their self-sufficient businesses, allowing women to both make a living and be empowered through independence. Other projects include providing free English lessons, the provision of sanitary products and sewing lessons to rural women, allowing women to have the opportunity to develop skills, gain an education and earn a living. Prayas Nepal Established in 2003, Prayas Nepal aims to improve the lives of those living in poverty in Nepal, particularly focusing on the welfare of children, with the charity’s initial project being a home for disadvantaged or orphaned children. Since then, Prayas Nepal has extended the focus of its work to support underprivileged children, women and the elderly. Since 2003, Prayas Nepal has provided education scholarships to more than 2,000 people as well as implemented a vast number of community development projects across the country. Such projects include a Women’s Empowerment Project, COVID-19 relief projects, free health care centers, childhood education and elderly education programs. Due to the threat of natural disasters, Prayas Nepal has also developed almost 1,400 disaster management projects that provide emergency relief and rehabilitation to regions most impacted. Making a Change Although Nepal still stands as a “Least Developed Country” the work of local, national and international charities operating in Nepal, such as the five discussed here, has meant that poverty is steadily declining, with many people being lifted out of poverty between 2014 and 2019. Nepal now aims to graduate from this status by 2026, according to the World Bank. However, economic, social and environmental issues are ever-prevalent in Nepal making the possibility for poverty alleviation challenging. – Lucy Jacks Photo: Flickr


--- [Prayas Nepal Explained] ---
No content
