=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[R. P. Weston - Wikipedia]
Robert Patrick Weston (né Harris; 7 March 1878 - 6 November 1936) [1] was an English songwriter. He was responsible for many successful songs and comic monologues between the 1900s and 1930s, mostly written in collaboration with other writers, notably Fred J. Barnes and Bert Lee, and performed successfully by Harry Champion, Stanley Holloway, and Gracie Fields, among others.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R._P._Weston

[Robert Weston (Harris) - Twickenham Museum]
Robert Weston was born in Kingsbury Road, Islingon, where his father ran a grocer's shop, the family living upstairs. He started work as a railway clerk but soon took up songwriting and, music publishing. From 1915 until 1935 he collaborated with Bert Lee whom he met in the offices of his music publisher, Francis Day & Hunter.
URL: https://twickenham-museum.org.uk/people/musicians/robert-weston-harris/

[R. P. Weston List of compositions - en.instr.scorser.com]
Robert Patrick Weston (né Harris; 7 March 1878 - 6 November 1936) was an English songwriter. He was responsible for many successful songs and comic monologues between the 1900s and 1930s, mostly written in collaboration with other writers, notably Fred J. Barnes and Bert Lee, and performed successfully by Harry Champion, Stanley Holloway, and Gracie Fields, among others.
URL: http://en.instr.scorser.com/C/All/R.+P.+Weston/All/Alphabeticly.html

[Patrick Weston Joyce]
He was born in Ballyorgan in the Ballyhoura Mountains, on the borders of counties Limerick and Cork in Ireland, and grew up in nearby Glenosheen. The family ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Weston_Joyce

[Biography of R. P. Weston]
Who was R. P. Weston? Robert Patrick Weston was an English songwriter. He was born and died in London. Among other songs, he co-authored, "With Her Head Tucked Underneath Her Arm", a macabre little ditty about the ghost of Anne Boleyn haunting the Tower of London, seeking revenge on Henry VIII for having her beheaded.
URL: https://www.biographies.net/people/en/r_p_weston


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [R. P. Weston - Wikipedia] ---
Robert Patrick Weston (né Harris; 7 March 1878 – 6 November 1936) was an English songwriter. He was responsible for many successful songs and comic monologues between the 1900s and 1930s, mostly written in collaboration with other writers, notably Fred J. Barnes and Bert Lee, and performed successfully by Harry Champion, Stanley Holloway, and Gracie Fields, among others.


--- [Robert Weston (Harris) - Twickenham Museum] ---
People: Musicians Robert Weston (Harris) Robert Weston (Harris) Songwriter Songwriter 1878 - 1936 1878 - 1936 "In 1910 Robert had collaborated with Fred Murray to produce the famous music hall song 'I'm Enery the Eighth I Am':I'm 'Enery the Eighth, I Am, 'Enery the Eighth I am, I am! I got married to the widow next door, She's been married seven times before And every one was an 'Enery She wouldn't have a Willie nor a Sam I'm her eighth old man named 'Enery 'Enery the Eighth, I am!" Robert Weston was born in Kingsbury Road, Islingon, where his father ran a grocer’s shop, the family living upstairs. He started work as a railway clerk but soon took up songwriting and, music publishing. From 1915 until 1935 he collaborated with Bert Lee whom he met in the offices of his music publisher, Francis Day & Hunter. Living at first with his wife, Maud, in Islington he moved to 180 London Road, Twickenham, where he remained for the rest of his life. Here there was collaboration with Stanley Holloway, Gracie Fields and The Crazy Gang. Holloway was the original performer of ‘With Her Head Tucked underneath her Arm’ in 1934, a song which records the legend of Anne Boleyn haunting The Tower of London. They also produced Marriott Edgar’s ‘The Lion and Albert’ for Holloway, a long monologue set in Blackpool Zoo, containing the lines: ‘Yon lion’s et Albert’:And swallered the little lad – ‘ole! Now Mother ‘ad seen this occurrence, And not knowin’ what to do next, She ‘ollered “Yon lion’s et Albert!” An’ Father said “Ee, I am vexed.”Followed, in 1935 by ‘Brahn Boots’, describing a social solecism at Aunt Hannah’s funeral. In 1910 Robert had collaborated with Fred Murray to produce the famous music hall song ‘I’m Enery the Eighth I Am’:I’m ‘Enery the Eighth, I Am, ‘Enery the Eighth I am, I am! I got married to the widow next door, She’s been married seven times before And every one was an ‘Enery She wouldn’t have a Willie nor a Sam I’m her eighth old man named ‘Enery ‘Enery the Eighth, I am!Willie was, later, changed to William, more difficult to sing but without imagery. Later, Robert’s son Harris Weston (christened Robert Edgar Harris) joined in and, after Robert’s death published, with Bert Lee, “Knees Up Mother Brown”, a song first recorded on Armistice Day 1918. Another song, from 1910, written with Fred Barnes, was ‘When Father Papered the Parlour’, in nine verses:Our parlour needed papering and Pa said it was waste To call a paperhanger in, and so, he made some paste. He bought some rolls of paper, got a ladder and a brush, And with me mother’s nightgown on, at it he made a rush. Robert’s two daughters continued to live in the Twickenham house after his death. Here his collection of scores and other papers remained for many years before being dispersed and largely lost to view. Further reading Roy Hudd, Theatrephile volume 2, no6, 1985


--- [R. P. Weston List of compositions - en.instr.scorser.com] ---
R. P. Weston I'm on Agen with MonaghanTax the BachelorsThe BolshevikWhen Father Papered the Parlour WikipediaRobert Patrick Weston (né Harris; 7 March 1878 – 6 November 1936) was an English songwriter. He was responsible for many successful songs and comic monologues between the 1900s and 1930s, mostly written in collaboration with other writers, notably Fred J. Barnes and Bert Lee, and performed successfully by Harry Champion, Stanley Holloway, and Gracie Fields, among others. He was born in Kingsbury Road, Islington, close to Dalston Junction in London. His father ran a grocery shop and the family lived over it. Harris initially worked for an engineering company, from which he was dismissed for spending time writing verses on the back of scraps of emery paper. He married Maud Barker in 1900 and became a railway clerk, living in Hemmingford Road, Islington with his wife, but took up performing and songwriting. For his wife's health, they moved to Weston-super-Mare, where Harris joined a concert party, took the stage name Weston, and became half of a double act, Conway and Weston. He soon moved to Ramsgate, where he started writing songs, before returning to London. He sold his first song, "Boys of the Chelsea School", to the publishing firm of Francis, Day and Hunter in 1902; it was popularised on stage by George Leyton. Weston continued to write songs himself, and in collaboration with other songwriters. Among the most successful and lasting songs from the early part of his career were "What a Mouth", sung by Harry Champion in 1906 and successfully revived in 1960 by Tommy Steele; and "I'm Henery the Eighth, I Am", written with Fred Murray in 1910 and also popularised and first recorded by Champion, which became a Billboard Hot 100 number 1 for Herman's Hermits in the U.S. in 1965. Bob Weston had a successful songwriting partnership with Fred J. Barnes. They co-wrote "Little Willie's Woodbines" (1908); "I've Got Rings On My Fingers" (1909); "When Father Papered the Parlour" (1910, popularised by Billy Williams); and "Hush Here Comes the Dream Man", recorded in 1911 by Florrie Forde, parodied by First World War soldiers as "Hush Here Comes a Whizzbang", and sung in the Theatre Workshop production of Oh, What a Lovely War! in 1963. Weston also co-wrote "Sister Susie's Sewing Shirts for Soldiers", written with Herman Darewski in 1914, which was Al Jolson's first hit. In 1915, music publisher David Day, of Francis, Day and Hunter, introduced him to Bert Lee, the collaborator with whom Weston had the most lasting relationship. They worked together over the next twenty years on some 3000 songs and monologues, 75 stage shows and musicals, and 17 films, as well as for pantomimes and radio shows. They immediately found success together with "Lloyd George's Beer Song" (1915), "Good-bye-ee!" (1917, made popular by Florrie Forde), and "Paddy McGinty's Goat", which later received a new lease of life as part of the repertoire of Irish entertainer Val Doonican, who recorded it in 1964. From the start, their collaborations were conducted in Weston's house in Twickenham. They kept office hours, met every day and aimed to write at least one song each day. Both wrote both words and music, but according to Lee: "Bob has the brains. I put the laughs in." As well as songs for revues, notably those produced by Lupino Lane, they wrote sketches for such stars as Fred Karno, Robb Wilton and Wee Georgie Wood. In the 1920s, Weston and Lee wrote for many theatre productions, and adapted many American productions for the British stage. In 1926, they started working with theatre producers Jack Waller and Joe Tunbridge, and wrote several musical comedies together, many featuring the comedian Bobby Howes. They wrote the monologue "My Word, You Do Look Queer", first recorded by Ernest Hastings in 1922 and later popularised by Stanley Holloway. Weston and Lee wrote sketches for the Crazy Gang, and several of Stanley Holloway's monologues in the 1930s. Together with Weston's son Harris Weston (born Robert Edgar Harris, 1901–1978), they wrote Holloway's 1934 monologue "With Her Head Tucked Underneath Her Arm", about the ghost of Anne Boleyn haunting the Tower of London, seeking revenge on Henry VIII for having her beheaded. Father and son also collaborated on Gracie Fields' 1933 song "Heaven Will Protect an Honest Girl", and on "Harmonica Dan" in 1936. Weston was also a talented amateur artist, whose paintings reflect his London background and include a watercolour of Houndsditch Market painted in 1916. He died from a brain tumour in London in 1936, aged 58. After Weston's death, his house was occupied by his two daughters who lived there into old age, with Weston and Lee's papers sitting untouched and unlooked-at. Their present whereabouts are mostly unknown though several items have appeared on eBay, including Weston and Lee's three-volume workbook, containing manuscript versions of many, if not all, their songs, which it is now known is in the hands of a collector of music hall memorabilia. In 1985, the entertainer Roy Hudd created a stage show based on the songs of Weston and Lee, Just a Verse and a Chorus, performed by Hudd and Billy Dainty, and wrote about them in a now defunct periodical, Theatrephile. Hudd also adapted the stage show into a series of shows for BBC Radio 2. A programme exploring the lives and work of Weston and Lee was broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 16 June 2009, presented by Children's Laureate Michael Rosen.


--- [Patrick Weston Joyce] ---
Patrick Weston Joyce (1827 – 7 January 1914) was an Irish historian, writer and music collector, known particularly for his research in Irish etymology and local place names of Ireland.


--- [Biography of R. P. Weston] ---
R. P. Weston Songwriter 1878 – 1936 Who was R. P. Weston? Robert Patrick Weston was an English songwriter. He was born and died in London. Among other songs, he co-authored, "With Her Head Tucked Underneath Her Arm", a macabre little ditty about the ghost of Anne Boleyn haunting the Tower of London, seeking revenge on Henry VIII for having her beheaded. Weston's real name was Robert Harris and he was born in Kingsbury Road, Islington, very close to Dalston Junction. His father ran a grocery shop and the family lived over it. Harris became a railway clerk, but took up performing and song writing. At this time, he was living at 46 Hemmingford Road in Islington with his wife Maud. In 1915 in the offices of his music publisher, Francis Day and Hunter, he met his future collaborator Bert Lee and they spent the next twenty years working together on songs, monologues, musicals and films. Some of their most durable work arose out their collaboration with Stanley Holloway. They also worked with Gracie Fields and the Crazy Gang. This collaboration was conducted in Weston's house in Twickenham until his death in 1936. Towards the end of Robert's life, his son, Harris Weston also collaborated with his father and Bert Lee and the three of them produced the song "Harmonica Dan" in 1936. After Robert's death, Harris continued the collaboration with Lee and produced "Knees Up Mother Brown" in 1938. Like his father, Harris had talent as an amateur artist and in December 1939 produced a painting showing a riotous party scene entitled "Knees Up Mother Brown". On the back of the painting Harris describes the scene as "The Costers' Party on the 100th Anniversary of Ma Brown". This indicates that this song must have been inspired by, or arose from, the costermonger community of London. Both Robert and Harris Weston drew inspiration from London's cockney culture for many of their songs, some of which were often sung in a cockney accent. These include Robert Weston's "What a Mouth" which was recorded as a pop song by Tommy Steele in 1960 and "I'm Henery the Eighth, I Am", which became US pop chart number 1 for Herman's Hermits in the 1965. Robert Weston's paintings also reflect his London background and include a watercolour of Houndsditch Market painted in 1916. We need you! Help us build the largest biographies collection on the web! Citation Use the citation below to add to a bibliography: Style:MLAChicagoAPA "R. P. Weston." Biographies.net. STANDS4 LTD, 2026. Web. 3 Mar. 2026. <https://www.biographies.net/people/en/r_p_weston>.
