=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Susumu Tonegawa - Wikipedia]
Susumu Tonegawa (利根川 進, Tonegawa Susumu; born September 5, 1939) is a Japanese scientist who was the sole recipient of the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1987 for his discovery of V (D)J recombination, the genetic mechanism which produces antibody diversity. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Susumu_Tonegawa

[Susumu Tonegawa – Biographical - NobelPrize.org]
Susumu Tonegawa - Biographical · Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1987 · Summary; Laureates. Susumu Tonegawa. Facts · Biographical · Nobel Prize lecture ...
URL: https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/medicine/1987/tonegawa/biographical/

[Susumu Tonegawa - Biography, Facts and Pictures]
Sep 23, 2018 · Susumu Tonegawa discovered how the immune system produces millions of different antibodies to combat almost any micro-organism. In doing so, he solved the tantalizing long-term puzzle of antibody diversity. Tonegawa was awarded the 1987 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work.
URL: https://www.famousscientists.org/susumu-tonegawa/

[Tonegawa Susumu | Japanese Molecular Biologist & Nobel Prize Winner ...]
Tonegawa Susumu (born September 5, 1939, Nagoya, Japan) is a Japanese molecular biologist who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1987 for his discovery of the genetic mechanisms underlying the great diversity of antibodies produced by the vertebrate immune system.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Tonegawa-Susumu

[The American Association of Immunologists - Susumu Tonegawa]
Nobel Prize in Science Susumu Tonegawa Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), was awarded the 1987 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for "his discovery of the genetic principle for generation of antibody diversity."
URL: https://www.aai.org/About/History/Notable-Members/Nobel-Laureates/SusumuTonegawa


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Susumu Tonegawa - Wikipedia] ---
Susumu Tonegawa (利根川 進, Tonegawa Susumu; born September 5, 1939) is a Japanese scientist who was the sole recipient of the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1987 for his discovery of V(D)J recombination, the genetic mechanism which produces antibody diversity. Although he won the Nobel Prize for his work in immunology, Tonegawa is a molecular biologist by training and he again changed fields following his Nobel Prize win; he now studies neuroscience, examining the molecular, cellular and neuronal basis of memory formation and retrieval.


--- [Susumu Tonegawa – Biographical - NobelPrize.org] ---
Susumu Tonegawa Biographical I was born in Nagoya, Japan on September 5th, 1939, the second of three sons. I have also a younger sister. My father was an engineer working for a textile company that had several factories scattered in rural towns in the southern part of Japan. The company policy made it necessary for my father to move from one factory to another every few years. I and my brothers and sister spent most of our childhood in these small provincial towns, enjoying the space and freedom of the countryside. As my elder brother and I reached adolescence, however, my parents decided to send us to Tokyo so that we could receive a better education. I commuted to the prestigious Hibiya high school from my Uncle’s home in Tokyo. During the high school years I developed an interest in chemistry, so upon graduation, I chose to take an entrance examination for the Department of Chemistry of the University of Kyoto, the old capital of Japan. After having failed once, I was admitted to this University in 1959. This happened to be one year before the first ten-year term of the defence treaty between Japan and the United States expired and the governments of both countries were preparing for a second ten-year term. The nation was deeply divided between the pragmatic pro-American conservatives and the idealistic anti-military leftists. Being the home of the most radical leftist student groups, classes at Kyoto University were often cancelled due to frequent political discussions and demonstrations on the streets. I was only a passive participant, withdrawn from the turmoil, but could not help having a feeling of defeat shared with many of my classmates when the treaty was finally extended for the next ten-year term. I believe that this experience might have been a major factor in making me give up the original goal of becoming a chemical engineer to pursue the academic life. I became fascinated by the then blossoming science of molecular biology when in my senior year I happened to read the papers by François Jacob and Jacques Monod on the operon theory. I decided to pursue graduate study in molecular biology and was accepted by Professor Itaru Watanabe’s laboratory at the Institute for Virus Research at the University of Kyoto, one of a few laboratories in Japan where U.S.-trained molecular biologists were actively engaged in research. However, only two months after I started my work in his laboratory, Professor Watanabe called me into his office and suggested that I carry out my graduate study in the United States. He explained how inadequate the graduate training programs in molecular biology laboratories were in Japan, including his own, and offered to help in my application to some major universities in the United States, if I would seriously consider studying abroad. At that time, it was a common career development for a Japanese molecular biologist to go to the United States for a few years of postdoctoral study after obtaining the Ph.D. in Japan. I already had a vague wish to follow that pattern. Professor Watanabe’s advice to enroll in an American graduate school therefore came to me as a bit of a surprise, but I was excited by the idea and accepted his help immediately. I cannot thank Professor Watanabe enough for this critical suggestion in the early phase of my scientific career. With the additional help of Dr. Takashi Yura, then an assistant professor in Watanabe’s laboratory, I was admitted to the graduate school of the Department of Biology of the University of California at San Diego that had recently been established by Professor David Bonner in La Jolla, the beautiful southern Californian town near the Mexican border. At UCSD I studied in the laboratory of Professor Masaki Hayashi, carrying out a thesis project on the transcriptional control of phage lambda and received my Ph.D. in molecular biology in 1968. I remained in Professor Hayashi’s laboratory as a postdoctoral fellow working on the morphogenesis of a phage, ØX174, until early 1969. Then I moved, also as a postdoctoral fellow, across the street to the laboratory of Dr. Renato Dulbecco at the Salk Institute. Like many others, I believed that the golden age of prokaryotic molecular biology was coming to an end and that the great excitement would be in higher organisms. However, the complexity of high organisms was baffling and the necessary tools seemed hopelessly insufficient. Small tumor viruses like polyoma and simian virus 40, the biological material primarily dealt with in Dulbecco’s laboratory, seemed to offer a bridge for the gap between prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Indeed Dulbecco’s laboratory was filled with first-class postdoctoral fellows from around the world, who were trained in prokaryotic molecular biology and who came there intending to expand their research into eukaryotic molecular biology. My project was to define the transcripts of SV40 during lytic infection and in transformed cells. Since this was the pre-restriction enzyme and pre-recombinant DNA age, the information I could obtain was very limited. However, being a member of the best laboratory in the field I glimpsed the excitement of the cutting edge of scientific research. Furthermore, I very much enjoyed the free and stimulating atmosphere of the laboratory. Unfortunately, as an awardee of a Fulbright travel grant, my U.S. visa was to expire by the end of 1970 and I had to leave the country for at least two years before I was eligible for another U.S. visa. I had two or three job possibilities outside of the United States, but none were particularly interesting. In the autumn of 1970, only a few months before my visa was to expire I received a letter from Renato Dulbecco who was travelling in Europe. Renato mentioned the newly established Basel Institute for Immunology in Basel, Switzerland, and suggested that the time might be ripe for a molecular biologist to tackle immunological problems. I had very little knowledge of immunology, but decided to take Dr. Dulbecco’s advice and sent an application letter to the Director of the Institute, Professor Niels Kaj Jerne, who offered me a two-year contract. In the winter of 1971, I thus found myself surrounded by immunologists in this small town located in the middle of Europe. I must admit that the first year in the Institute was not easy for me. I had a continuing interest in work on SV40, but I was also keenly aware that I would not be able to take much advantage of the circumstances if I isolated myself by pursuing that subject. I therefore decided to study immunology in the hope of finding an interesting project. An immunologist, Dr. Ita Askonas, and a geneticist, Charles Steinberg, were very helpful to me on my entering the new field. By the end of 1971, I was introduced to the great debate on the genetic origins of antibody diversity. I felt from the beginning that I could contribute to resolving this question by applying the recently invented techniques of molecular biology, namely, restriction enzymes and recombinant DNA. Initially I worked only with my skillful technicians, Monica Shöld and Rita Schuller, but was soon joined by Drs. Nobumichi Hozumi, Minoru Hirama, and Christine Brack. Later, as my research group expanded, I had the good fortune to work with many capable postdoctoral fellows and devoted technical assistants. In addition, Charles Steinberg was a very important collaborator and consultant, particularly in the initial phase of the research. Looking back, the research progressed with amazing speed from 1974 to 1981, the year I left Basel. We all worked hard and had had a great deal of fun. Our work resolved the long held debate on the genetic origin of antibody diversity. It turned out that this diversity is generated by somatic recombination of the inherited gene segments and by somatic mutation. To our very good fortune, Director Niels Jerne was quick to understand the importance of our approach and became a staunch supporter of the research in its early phase. In the beginning of the 1980’s I began to feel that the great mystery of antibody diversity had been solved, at least in its outlines. I thought that it might be good to change my environment to launch into a new project. I also recalled that I had initially come to Switzerland with the intention of staying for two years and then returning to the United States. Fortunately, I received a few offers from the United States and decided in 1981 to take a professorship at the Center for Cancer Research at M.I.T. Professor Salvador E. Luria, Director of the Cancer Center, was extremely helpful, not only in bringing me to M.I.T., but also in providing me with a beautiful laboratory. The research projects on which I had decided concerned two major problems. One was to investigate the role of somatic rearrangement in the activation of the rearranged antibody gene, and the second was to extend the research in Basel to “the other half” of the immune system, namely, to the antigen receptor of T cells. Fortunately, we could contribute to the understanding of both problems by discovering a tissue-specific transcriptional enhancer in the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene and by identifying, cloning, and sequencing genes coding for the polypeptide subunits of the T cell receptor. A particularly intriguing development made during the latter study was the identification of a gene that led to the discovery of a new T cell receptor, gamma delta. While the function of the T cells bearing this receptor is currently unknown, data accumulated during the past year in our laboratory as well as many other laboratories suggest that these T cells may be involved in an entirely new aspect of immunity. When I look back on my scientific career to-date, I am amazed at my good fortune. At every major turn, I met scientists who were not only at the very top in their own fields, but who also gave me insightful advice and generous help. I am most grateful to Professors Itaru Watanabe, Renato Dulbecco, Niels Kaj Jerne, Charles Steinberg, and Salvadore Luria. I also wish to extend my unending gratitude to many colleagues and technical assistants. My parents were firm believers that education is the best asset that parents can give to their children. I am deeply grateful to them for their outstanding support of my study and professional career. I am extremely grateful to my wife, Mayumi, whom I married in September 1985 for her devotion, interest, encouragement and criticism. I also wish to express my sincere thanks to my first wife, Kyoko, for her limitless devotion during my days in La Jolla and Basel. I have been fortunate enough to receive many professional honors which include: The Cloetta Prize of Foundation Professor Dr. Max Cloetta, Switzerland (1978), Warren Triennial Prize of the Massachusetts General Hospital, U.S.A. (1980), Genetics Grand Prize of Genetics Promotion Foundation, Japan (1981), Avery Landsteiner Prize of the Gesselshat für Immunologie, West Germany (1981), Asahi Prize of Asahi-Shimbun (Asahi Press), Tokyo, Japan (1982), Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize of Columbia University, New York, U.S.A. (1982), The V.D. Mattia Award of the Roch Institute of Molecular Biology, Nutley, U.S.A. (1983), Gairdner Foundation International Awards of the Gairdner Foundation, Toronto, Canada (1983), Person of Cultural Merit “Bunkakorosha” of the Japanese Government (1983), Order of Culture “Bunkakunsho” from the Emperor of Japan (1984), Bristol-Myers Award for Distinguished Achievement in Cancer Research (1986), Robert Koch Prize of the Robert Koch Foundation, West Germany (1986). Albert and Mary Lasker Award, New York City (1987) and NOBEL PRIZE in Physiology or Medicine, Stockholm, Sweden (1987). This autobiography/biography was written at the time of the award and later published in the book series Les Prix Nobel/ Nobel Lectures/The Nobel Prizes. The information is sometimes updated with an addendum submitted by the Laureate. Nobel Prizes and laureates Six prizes were awarded for achievements that have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The 14 laureates' work and discoveries range from quantum tunnelling to promoting democratic rights. See them all presented here.


--- [Susumu Tonegawa - Biography, Facts and Pictures] ---
No content


--- [Tonegawa Susumu | Japanese Molecular Biologist & Nobel Prize Winner ...] ---
Tonegawa Susumu Tonegawa Susumu (born September 5, 1939, Nagoya, Japan) is a Japanese molecular biologist who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1987 for his discovery of the genetic mechanisms underlying the great diversity of antibodies produced by the vertebrate immune system. Tonegawa earned a B.S. degree from Kyōto University in 1963 and a Ph.D. in molecular biology from the University of California, San Diego, U.S., in 1969. He was a member of the Basel Institute for Immunology in Switzerland from 1971 to 1981. During that time Tonegawa applied the newly devised recombinant DNA techniques of molecular biology to immunology and began to tackle one of the greatest unsolved immunological questions of the day: how antibody diversity is generated. Prior to Tonegawa’s discovery, it was unclear how a limited number of genes—there are believed to be about 100,000 in the human genome—could produce the total human antibody repertoire, which numbers in the trillions. According to Tonegawa’s research, each antibody protein is not encoded by a specific gene, as one theory contended; instead, antibodies are constructed from a relatively small number of gene fragments that are rearranged randomly to generate different antibody molecules. In 1981 Tonegawa moved to the United States to become a professor of biology at the Center for Cancer Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). In addition to conducting immunological investigations, Tonegawa studied molecular and cellular aspects of neurobiology, and in 1994 he joined MIT’s Center for Learning and Memory (now the Picower Institute for Learning and Memory). His research focused on the role of the hippocampus in the processes of memory formation and recall. To conduct these studies, Tonegawa developed a genetically engineered mouse model in which the animals were no longer able to produce an enzyme called calcineurin. Calcineurin plays important roles in the immune system and in the brain, where it is associated with receptors that bind chemicals involved in neural synaptic transmission. Tonegawa’s mice unexpectedly displayed symptoms characteristic of schizophrenia. Further studies indicated that genetic variations in the calcineurin gene contribute to the development of schizophrenia in humans. Tonegawa’s mouse model has since been employed for the discovery of pharmacological agents for the treatment of schizophrenia. Tonegawa also identified genes and proteins involved in long-term memory storage, and he developed techniques to facilitate the study of neuronal circuits involved in cognition and behaviour. - Awards And Honors: - Nobel Prize (1987) - Subjects Of Study: - B cell - antibody - genetic expression - immune system Tonegawa received numerous awards throughout his career, including the Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize (1982), the Person of Cultural Merit prize (Bunka Korosha; 1983), conferred by the Japanese government, and the Order of Culture (Bunka Kunsho; 1984).


--- [The American Association of Immunologists - Susumu Tonegawa] ---
Susumu Tonegawa, Ph.D. Brief Bio Susumu Tonegawa was born in Nagoya, Japan, on September 6, 1939. After earning his B.S. in chemistry from Kyoto University in 1963, he began graduate study in molecular biology under Itaru Watanabe at the Institute for Virus Research at Kyoto University. Within two months, Watanabe encouraged him to apply for graduate study in the United States. In August of 1963, Tonegawa left Kyoto for the University of California, San Diego, where he studied phages under Masaki Hayashi in the Department of Biology. He earned his Ph.D. in 1968 and remained in Hayashi's laboratory as a postdoctoral fellow for one year before accepting a postdoctoral fellowship in Renato Dulbecco's laboratory at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla. On Dulbecco's advice, Tonegawa, whose U.S. visa was soon to expire, applied to work at the Basel Institute for Immunology in Switzerland. Although Tonegawa had no experience in immunology, Niels Jerne (AAI '73), the director of the institute, brought him to Switzerland in January of 1971. Tonegawa quickly immersed himself in immunological research, beginning the experiments for which he was awarded the Nobel after only three years in the field. Recruited by Salvador Luria (AAI '58), Tonegawa returned to the United States in 1981 to accept a professorship at the Center for Cancer Research at MIT. He was a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator from 1988 to 2009. After shifting his focus to neuroscience, he founded the Center for Learning and Memory at MIT (now the Picower Institute for Learning and Memory) and has been the director of the RIKEN-MIT Center for Neural Circuit Genetics since 2008 and of the RIKEN Brain Science Institute in Japan since 2009. Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1987 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine “for his discovery of the genetic principle for generation of antibody diversity.” Lasker Award 1987 Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award “for brilliantly demonstrating that the DNA responsible for antibody production is routinely reshuffled to create new genes during the lifetime of an individual.” Click here for more details. AAI Service History Joined: 1980 Nobel Prize in Science Susumu Tonegawa Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), was awarded the 1987 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for "his discovery of the genetic principle for generation of antibody diversity." At a time when the question of how a limited number of genes could produce such a vast array of antibodies perplexed immunologists, Tonegawa demonstrated that antibody diversity was a result of the rearrangement of genes in somatic cells. His findings have allowed for advancements in the areas of vaccination, organ transplantation, and the treatment of autoimmune diseases. In a series of experiments conducted between 1974 and 1976, Tonegawa sought to determine whether an individual inherited millions of immunoglobulin genes, each responsible for producing a distinct polypeptide chain in a specific antibody, or whether the immune system rearranged genetic information during B cell development, enabling a small number of genes to produce a much larger number of antibodies. Using newly discovered restriction enzymes to fragment DNA, he compared by hybridization the DNA of embryonic mouse cells and adult myeloma cells. Upon discovering that the immunoglobulin genes of adults were arranged differently from their arrangement in the embryonic cells, he concluded that they had been reshuffled during B cell differentiation, allowing the animal to create a wide range of antibodies. In subsequent work, he confirmed the findings by cloning and sequencing antibody-encoding genes. In the early 1990s, Tonegawa turned his attention to neurobiology. He has been particularly interested in the molecular and cellular basis of learning and memory. Using genetically modified mice, he has investigated the roles that specific enzymes, genes, and pathways play in both short-term and long-term memory. This research may aid in the development of drugs to treat neurological and psychological disorders, including schizophrenia and dementia. "The genetic side of antibody research was a complete mystery to us all when Tonegawa started his work," said Bengt Samuelsson, president of the Karolinska Institute, when announcing that Tonegawa had been awarded the Nobel. "He was the only player in the field between 1976 and 1978. The work was truly unique." Awards and Honors - Warren Triennial Prize, 1980 - Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize, 1982 - Gairdner Foundation International Award, 1983 - Member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1984 - Robert Koch Prize, 1986 - Foreign associate, National Academy of Sciences, 1986 - Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, 1987 - Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award, 1987 - David M. Bonner Lifetime Achievement Award, University of California, San Diego, 2010 - Distinguished Fellow, AAI, 2019 Institutional/Biographical Links
