=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Moses Cone - U.S. National Park Service]
In 1906, Moses and Bertha took a year-long trip around the world. The trip began in Europe and ended in Asia. While on this trip, Moses developed health problems, including chest pains and indigestion. After returning to the United States in 1907, Moses was evaluated at John Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and was diagnosed with heart problems.
URL: https://www.nps.gov/people/moses-cone.htm

[BLRI Trunk | dotanconservation]
The large flat top "steamer" trunk was owned by Berth Lindau Cone, wife of successful textile mill owner Moses Cone. In 1906, the Cones embarked on a year-long trip around the world.
URL: https://www.dotanconservation.com/blri-trunk

[Modern Visions, Mountain Views: The Cones of Flat Top Manor]
Jul 20, 2019 · By featuring stories from family letters and memories, Modern Visions, Mountain Views offers a window in the personal and cultural interests of Cone family members. This exhibition especially features souvenirs that Moses and Bertha Cone displayed at Flat Top Manor, items purchased during their 1906 world tour with Claribel and Etta Cone.
URL: https://www.blowingrockmuseum.org/see/flattopmanor

[History | Cone Health]
Following her death in 1947, Bertha's share of the family inheritance is directed toward the hospital's founding. February 25, 1953 - The Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospita l opens to the public with 231 employees and 53 of the 310 beds in service with costs of $8 to $20 per day. The first patient, a toddler, is admitted with a respiratory infection.
URL: https://www.conehealth.com/about-us/history/

[Bertha Lindau Cone (1858-1947) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Bertha Lindau Cone's gravesite and Flat Top Manor home she helped build with her husband, Moses, continues to be visited by countless numbers of people from all over the world. Very few of those visitors probably know much about Moses Cone, the son of a former immigrant peddler, and how he rose to become an industrial...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/27909640/bertha-cone


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Moses Cone - U.S. National Park Service] ---
Last updated: March 24, 2025 Person Moses Cone Moses Cone rose from immigrant roots to become a leading industrialist during America's Gilded Age. The story of the Cone family begins with Moses’ father, Herman Kahn, who immigrated to America from Bavaria, Germany in 1846, when he was 17 years old. Herman first settled in Richmond, Virginia, and Americanized his name from Kahn to Cone. After a few years he relocated to Jonesboro, Tennessee, where he opened a retail grocery store. He married Helen Guggenheimer, who, like he, was of German Jewish heritage. The eldest of their thirteen children, Moses, was born in Jonesboro, Tennessee on June 29, 1857. In 1870, Herman Cone moved his family to Baltimore, Maryland seeking better economic opportunities following the Civil War. In Baltimore, he opened a wholesale grocery. Moses began his career in his father’s business. Moses and his brother Caesar, worked as traveling salesman for their father, and eventually became partners in the business, H. Cone and Sons. Traveling throughout the South for the family business, Moses and Caesar developed strong ties with company stores in the region’s numerous textile mills. In 1891, the brothers started their own business, Cone Export & Commission Company, which sold textile products from smaller, independent southern mills to a wider market. They charged a 5 percent commission on these sales transactions. Expanding their textile business further, Moses and Caesar opened Proximity Manufacturing Company in Greensboro, North Carolina in 1895. This cotton mill, which produced denim fabric, was named for its closeness—or proximity—to the raw materials needed for manufacturing cotton textiles, and to the railway lines required for transportation. As their business continued to grow, the brothers opened and purchased additional mills, eventually becoming the leading makers of high-quality denim, corduroy, and flannel. During Moses’ lifetime, the brothers’ mills produced one third of the world’s supply of denim fabric, earning Moses the nickname, the “Denim King.” Moses Cone married Bertha Lindau on February 15, 1888. Their economic success enabled the couple to develop Flat Top Manor, a country estate located in the cool and healthful air of the mountains in Blowing Rock, North Carolina. It was to become a testament to the wealth and influence attained by Moses Cone and his family. Moses’ vision for the estate was influenced by his great regard for the natural landscape. He purchased the first piece of land in Blowing Rock in 1892 and eventually acquired nearly 3,600 acres for his estate. Following the example of other Gilded Age industrialists, Moses sought to build a country refuge where he and Bertha could relax from the stress of their business and reconnect with nature. Construction of the family home began in 1899 and was completed in early 1901. While other wealthy men were busy building French-style chateaus and homes reminiscent of European estates, Moses and Bertha modeled their home on the American past, building a relatively modest home in the Beaux-Arts style. It may have been a conscious expression of the couple’s desire to distance themselves from their German Jewish immigrant roots and be seen as “American.” Flat Top Manor was a designed as summer home where Moses and Bertha could enjoy the mountains and entertain guests. The couple spent winters in Baltimore, Maryland. The manor house was large compared to most American homes, containing about 14,000 square feet of living space on three floors. Its 23 rooms included 11 bedrooms, 7 bathrooms, a billiard room, music room, and library. Shady porches, leaded glass windows, and 11 fireplaces graced the house. The house had all the modern amenities available in a rural location in America. This included telephones, a servants’ call system, indoor plumbing with cold and hot running water, a central wood-fired heating system, and a state-of-the-art carbide gas lighting system. Electricity was run to the house in 1927, about 25 years after it was built. A staff of African American servants worked for the family inside the house. They included cooks, laundry maids, chambermaids, parlor maids, a butler and in later years a chauffeur. These staff members lived in two cottages located behind the manor house. Recreational facilities outside the house included a bowling alley, tennis court, and formal croquet lawn. But the crown jewel of the estate was an extensive system of carriage roads that Moses and Bertha designed. Totaling 25 miles, these roads were used for both the pleasure of the family and for maintaining the large estate. The Cones also built three lakes on their property, which were stocked with bass or trout. The largest was Bass Lake—which is the centerpiece of the beautiful view from the manor house. Moses Cone considered himself to be a gentleman farmer. He established agricultural enterprises on the estate in hopes that Flat Top Manor would eventually become financially self sufficient. He directed the planting of commercial apple orchards and maintained herds of sheep and beef cows on the estate. Bertha later established a small dairy operation on the farm. Thirty-two local families who worked in the orchards and farm operations lived in simple cottages scattered around the estate. While many land barons kept their estates private, Moses Cone chose to open the grounds of Flat Top Manor to the local community—opening the gates at 8:00 AM each morning and closing them at 6:00 PM each evening. People were welcome to walk or ride horses on the carriage trails and explore his estate, though restrictions were placed on picking flowers or hunting on the property. In 1906, Moses and Bertha took a year-long trip around the world. The trip began in Europe and ended in Asia. While on this trip, Moses developed health problems, including chest pains and indigestion. After returning to the United States in 1907, Moses was evaluated at John Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and was diagnosed with heart problems. Moses died unexpectedly on December 8, 1908 as a result of heart disease. He was just 51 years old. Moses was buried on his estate in the family cemetery, at a site which he had selected during his lifetime. Bertha Cone outlived her husband by 39 years. She took over management of Flat Top Manor after his death and proved herself to be a very competent manager of the estate, continuing to fulfill the dreams that Moses had for his beloved Flat Top Manor. During this time, she also received an annual income based on her husband’s co-ownership of the Cone business. Flat Top Manor remained Bertha’s summer home for the remainder of her life. She was often joined by her two sisters, Clementine and Sophie, and other family members during her summers at the estate. Bertha died at Flat Top Manor on June 8, 1947 at the age of 89. The couple had no children, so in accordance with an indenture made by the family in 1911, funds from the estate were used to build the Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital in Greensboro, North Carolina, home to the family's textile mills. Construction of the hospital began in 1949 and the facility opened to the public in 1953. Ownership of Flat Top Manor was also transferred to the Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital, which was charged with operating the estate as a “public pleasuring ground”--essentially a free public park. Shortly thereafter, the hospital donated Flat Top Manor to the National Park Service to become a part of the Blue Ridge Parkway. Today Flat Top Manor is preserved as the Moses H. Cone Memorial Park. You can visit Flat Top Manor, located near Blowing Rock, NC, at Milepost 294 on the Blue Ridge Parkway.


--- [BLRI Trunk | dotanconservation] ---
Dotan Conservation Cultural Heritage Object Preservation Steamer Trunk The large flat top “steamer” trunk was owned by Berth Lindau Cone, wife of successful textile mill owner Moses Cone. In 1906, the Cones embarked on a year-long trip around the world. The object is inscribed with painted labels reading “Mrs. C, Blowing Rock N.C” on both sides, presumably accompanied Mrs. Cone on the international voyage. The entire surface of the object, including the red-colored covering material, leather bindings, and metal components were heavily soiled with encrusted dirt, indeterminate grime, as well as several poultry feathers. The various metal fastenings including the lock, lock receiver, dowels, corners, valance clamp, shoulders, clamps, handle caps, valance and metal brads were rusted. The laminate paper covering was cleaned, stabilized, and areas of missing material were visually compensated. Lost leather binding segments were re-created, and each metal component was cleaned and coated to prevent future corrosion formation. The interior of the trunk, which had long been locked away, was excavated to remove the assorted items.


--- [Modern Visions, Mountain Views: The Cones of Flat Top Manor] ---
Modern Visions, Mountain Views: The Cones of Flat Top Manor While the art collection of Dr. Claribel and Etta Cone is cherished by art historians and museum-goers alike, it would not have been possible without the financial support of their brothers’ thriving textile business in North Carolina. Modern Visions, Mountain Views: The Cones at Flat Top Manor takes the story of the Cone family to the Blowing Rock estate built by Claribel and Etta’s eldest brother, North Carolina’s “Denim King,” Moses H. Cone and his wife, Bertha Lindau Cone. This exhibition explores the marvel of Moses and Bertha Cone’s visionary enterprise. Completed in 1901, Flat Top Manor was the centerpiece of a grand country estate, with 25 miles of carriage roads and an orchard of over 30,000 apple trees. The house was outfitted with the most up-to-date technology of its time. Flat Top Manor featured hot and cold running water, gas lights, telephones, and central heat—extravagances that stood in great contrast to most homes in the North Carolina mountains. By featuring stories from family letters and memories, Modern Visions, Mountain Views offers a window in the personal and cultural interests of Cone family members. This exhibition especially features souvenirs that Moses and Bertha Cone displayed at Flat Top Manor, items purchased during their 1906 world tour with Claribel and Etta Cone. This exhibition is produced by the Blue Ridge Parkway Foundation, in collaboration with the National Park Service and the Blowing Rock Art & History Museum.


--- [History | Cone Health] ---
No content


--- [Bertha Lindau Cone (1858-1947) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
- Birth - Chicago, Cook County, Illinois, USA - Death - 8 Jun 1947 (aged 89) Blowing Rock, Watauga County, North Carolina, USA - Burial - Blowing Rock, Watauga County, North Carolina, USA Add to Map - Plot - cremated - Memorial ID - 27909640 View Source On April 1, 1858, Bertha was born in Chicago, IL to Manasse “Max” Lindau (Lindauer originally), a Jew who had immigrated from Jebenhausen, Germany in the 1840’s, and Henrietta Ullman, a immigrant from Ulm, Germany. Bertha was the firstborn of seven children. Sometime before 1867 the Lindau family moved to Baltimore, MD. In the early 1880’s, the Lindau family became neighbors of the Herman Cone (Kahn originally) family in Baltimore. Herman Cone, also a Jewish immigrant from Germany, had circuitously built a successful grocery business . Herman had started his life in America as a peddler. On February 15, 1888, Bertha Lindau married Herman’s son, Moses Cone, at her parents home in Baltimore, MD. Moses had courted her for almost 4 years. In the late 1880’s Moses and others in the Cone family had begun acquiring, or investing in, manufacturing mills and business concerns throughout the south. Several of those were in western North Carolina and the Cones established a home and headquarters in Greensboro, NC. By 1898 Moses, with Bertha at his side, had established an industrial empire. In 1898, Moses and Bertha began construction on Flat Top Manor near Blowing Rock, North Carolina. The working estate included a twenty-three room mansion encompassed by more than 3500 acres. It would also include 25 miles of carriage roads, man-made lakes, apple orchards, gardens, stock farm, and dairy. In 1906 Bertha and Moses went on a world tour and collected works of art to furnish and display in their Flat Top Manor mansion. On Dec. 8, 1908, Moses died at the relatively young age of 51 and after a marriage of 20 years which had been loving but childless. Bertha, then at 50 years of age, could easily have retired back to Baltimore or Greensboro to live out her days in the comforts and conveniences of the city but she chose not to. In December 1908 Bertha became the owner and sole manager of Flat Top Manor. To the surprise of many, she assumed complete day to day management of the working estate even to the smallest detail. She was reported to have quickly and proficiently learned things that women of her era would not have been expected to know or would have been discouraged from learning. For 39 more years Bertha would continue the formidable work and worries of running the estate. On June 8, 1947, Bertha passed away at the age of 89 at Flat Top Manor. Her remains were cremated and her ashes placed in Cone Cemetery next to Moses and near her beloved sister Clementine. The cemetery is an uphill walk from the manor house and in a small grove of evergreens on the edge of the high meadow. It is uncertain who chose the location and why. If you walk a little further up the road, above the meadow and look back down, the view may partly explain the why. C. Lincoln Edmonson I had taken the opportunity to maintain this Memorial to Bertha when I had begun reading, for a second time, an excellent and extensively researched book about the Cones and their “Mansion in the Mountains''. I have visited and appreciated the beauty of Flat Top Manor a number of times and that developed into an interest both historically and somewhat genealogically. CLE On April 1, 1858, Bertha was born in Chicago, IL to Manasse “Max” Lindau (Lindauer originally), a Jew who had immigrated from Jebenhausen, Germany in the 1840’s, and Henrietta Ullman, a immigrant from Ulm, Germany. Bertha was the firstborn of seven children. Sometime before 1867 the Lindau family moved to Baltimore, MD. In the early 1880’s, the Lindau family became neighbors of the Herman Cone (Kahn originally) family in Baltimore. Herman Cone, also a Jewish immigrant from Germany, had circuitously built a successful grocery business . Herman had started his life in America as a peddler. On February 15, 1888, Bertha Lindau married Herman’s son, Moses Cone, at her parents home in Baltimore, MD. Moses had courted her for almost 4 years. In the late 1880’s Moses and others in the Cone family had begun acquiring, or investing in, manufacturing mills and business concerns throughout the south. Several of those were in western North Carolina and the Cones established a home and headquarters in Greensboro, NC. By 1898 Moses, with Bertha at his side, had established an industrial empire. In 1898, Moses and Bertha began construction on Flat Top Manor near Blowing Rock, North Carolina. The working estate included a twenty-three room mansion encompassed by more than 3500 acres. It would also include 25 miles of carriage roads, man-made lakes, apple orchards, gardens, stock farm, and dairy. In 1906 Bertha and Moses went on a world tour and collected works of art to furnish and display in their Flat Top Manor mansion. On Dec. 8, 1908, Moses died at the relatively young age of 51 and after a marriage of 20 years which had been loving but childless. Bertha, then at 50 years of age, could easily have retired back to Baltimore or Greensboro to live out her days in the comforts and conveniences of the city but she chose not to. In December 1908 Bertha became the owner and sole manager of Flat Top Manor. To the surprise of many, she assumed complete day to day management of the working estate even to the smallest detail. She was reported to have quickly and proficiently learned things that women of her era would not have been expected to know or would have been discouraged from learning. For 39 more years Bertha would continue the formidable work and worries of running the estate. On June 8, 1947, Bertha passed away at the age of 89 at Flat Top Manor. Her remains were cremated and her ashes placed in Cone Cemetery next to Moses and near her beloved sister Clementine. The cemetery is an uphill walk from the manor house and in a small grove of evergreens on the edge of the high meadow. It is uncertain who chose the location and why. If you walk a little further up the road, above the meadow and look back down, the view may partly explain the why. C. Lincoln Edmonson I had taken the opportunity to maintain this Memorial to Bertha when I had begun reading, for a second time, an excellent and extensively researched book about the Cones and their “Mansion in the Mountains''. I have visited and appreciated the beauty of Flat Top Manor a number of times and that developed into an interest both historically and somewhat genealogically. CLE Family Members - Maintained by: C. Lincoln Edmonson - Originally Created by: Jean - Added: Jun 29, 2008 - Find a Grave Memorial ID: - Find a Grave, database and images (https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/27909640/bertha-cone: accessed ), memorial page for Bertha Lindau Cone (1 Apr 1858–8 Jun 1947), Find a Grave Memorial ID 27909640, citing Cone Cemetery, Blowing Rock, Watauga County, North Carolina, USA; Maintained by C. Lincoln Edmonson (contributor 50585108).
