=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Space Creature set - Terraria Wiki - Fandom]
The Space Creature set is a set of vanity items consisting of the Space Creature Mask, Space Creature Shirt, and Space Creature Pants. Its male and female variants look identical. It has a 5.26*1/19 (5.26%) chance to drop from Goodie Bags during Halloween. The set is a reference to the Xenomorphs from the Alien film series. Desktop 1.4.0.1: Equipped sprites updated. Desktop 1.2.1: Introduced ...
URL: https://terraria.fandom.com/wiki/Space_Creature_set

[Space Creature set - Official Terraria Wiki]
The Space Creature set is a vanity set consisting of the Space Creature Mask, Space Creature Shirt, and Space Creature Pants. Its male and female variants look identical. It has a 2/57 (3.51%) chance to drop from Goodie Bags during Halloween. These items are to be equipped in the Social Slots as they...
URL: https://terraria.wiki.gg/wiki/Space_Creature_set

[Space Creature Costume | Terraria Wiki | Fandom]
The Space Creature Costume is a Vanity Set which can be obtained from opening a Goodie Bag. It consists of Space Creature Mask, Space Creature Shirt, and Space Creature Pants. This costume is a reference to a Xenomorph from the Alien sci-fi franchise. v1.2.1 Added to the game.
URL: https://terraria-archive.fandom.com/wiki/Space_Creature_Costume

[Terraria Update 1.29 Released for Labor of Love Patch 1.4.4 ... - MP1st]
Terraria update 1.29 has been released by Re-Logic, and this is for the big Labor of Love version 1.4.4 patch! This brings new items, new quality of life improvements, bug fixes and more! There's a ton to dig into, so read on for the official Terraria September 28 patch notes. - Added the ...
URL: https://mp1st.com/news/terraria-update-1-29-released-for-labor-of-love-patch-1-4-4-this-september-28

[Terraria Update 1.29 Patch Notes: What's New In ... - GameInfinitus]
Sep 28, 2022 · Terraria update 1.29 is out now for PS4, Xbox One, PC, and Nintendo Switch. You can get the complete patch notes for the update here.
URL: https://gameinfinitus.com/patch-notes/terraria-update-1-29-patch-notes-september-28/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Space Creature set - Terraria Wiki - Fandom] ---
Halloween-Only Content The content described on this page will only appear during the Halloween event. The content described on this page will only appear during the Halloween event. The Space Creature set is a set of vanity items consisting of the Space Creature Mask, Space Creature Shirt, and Space Creature Pants. Its male and female variants look identical. It has a 5.26*1/19 (5.26%) chance to drop from Goodie Bags during Halloween. Set[] Trivia[] - The set is a reference to the Xenomorphs from the Alien film series. History[] - Desktop 1.4.0.1: Equipped sprites updated. - Desktop 1.2.1: Introduced. - Console 1.02: Introduced. - Switch 1.0.711.6: Introduced. - Mobile 1.2.6508: Introduced. - 3DS-Release: Introduced. Equipable Items: - Armor - Accessories ( - Combat - Vanity ( - Accessories - Dyes Accessories Speed Air - Balloons - Boots - Bottles - Flying Carpet - Frog Leg - Soaring Insignia - Hoverboard - Celestial Starboard - Wings (All Types) Water Construction Other - Arkhalis' Lightwings - Cenx's Wings - Crowno's Wings - D-Town's Wings - FoodBarbarian's Tattered Dragon Wings - Ghostar's Infinity Eight - Grox The Great's Wings - Jim's Wings - Lazure's Barrier Platform - Leinfors' Luxury Shampoo - Leinfors' Prehensile Cloak - Loki's Wings - Red's Wings - Safeman's Blanket Cape - Skiphs' Paws - Will's Wings - Yoraiz0r's Scowl - Yoraiz0r's Spell Combat Accessories Melee Ranged Summon Other - Avenger Emblem - Bee Cloak - Bone Helm - Celestial Shell - Celestial Stone - Destroyer Emblem - Eye of the Golem - Hive Pack - Honey Comb - Magma Skull - Magma Stone - Molten Skull Rose - Moon Charm - Moon Shell - Moon Stone - Putrid Scent - Shark Tooth Necklace - Shield of Cthulhu - Spore Sac - Star Cloak - Stinger Necklace - Sun Stone - Volatile Gelatin Vanity Single Pieces Head - Balla Hat - Beanie - Boss Mask - Bunny Hood - Demon Horns - Devil Horns - Engineering Helmet - Eyebrella - Fake Unicorn Horn - Fedora - Fez - Fish Bowls - Gangsta Hat - Garland - Giant Bow - Gold Crown () - Green Cap - Guy Fawkes Mask - Heart Hairpin - HiTek Sunglasses - Jack 'O Lantern Mask - Jungle Rose - Mime Mask - Moon Mask - Mushroom Cap - Panda Ears - Party Hat - Peddler's Hat - Rabbit Perch - Reindeer Antlers - Red Hat - Robot Hat - Rock Golem Head - Skull - Snow Hat - Star Hairpin - Summer Hat - Sunglasses - Sun Mask - SWAT Helmet - Tam O' Shanter - Umbrella Hat Pants Sets - Ancient - Archaeologist's - Bee - Black graduation - Bunny - Chef - Clown - Country Club - Cowboy - Cultist - Dog - Familiar - Firestarter - Fish - Fox - Funeral - Gentleman - Gravedigger - Hero - Lamia - Lizard - Maid( - Pink - Pink - Master Gamer - Mermaid - Mummy - Mushroom - Ninja - Pharaoh - Plumber - Pretty Pink - Princess - Rain - Rune - Star Princess - Superhero - Victorian Goth - The Doctor's set - Monokuma - Shiren - Monomi - Toro's - Mythical - Horned God NPC set Event Sets Vanity contest sets Removed Set Vanity Accessories Dyes Intense W/ Silver Dye - Acid - Chlorophyte - Gel ( - Pink - Glowing Mushroom - Grim - Hades - Living - Martian - Midnight Rainbow - Mirage - Negative - Phase - Pixie - Purple Ooze - Reflective - Shadow - Shifting Sands () - Twilight - Wisp - Developer


--- [Space Creature set - Official Terraria Wiki] ---
No content


--- [Space Creature Costume | Terraria Wiki | Fandom] ---
The Space Creature Costume is a Vanity Set which can be obtained from opening a Goodie Bag. It consists of Space Creature Mask, Space Creature Shirt, and Space Creature Pants. Trivia[] - This costume is a reference to a Xenomorph from the Alien sci-fi franchise. Update Info[] - Added to the game.


--- [Terraria Update 1.29 Released for Labor of Love Patch 1.4.4 ... - MP1st] ---
Terraria Update 1.29 Released for Labor of Love Patch 1.4.4 This September 28 Terraria update 1.29 has been released by Re-Logic, and this is for the big Labor of Love version 1.4.4 patch! This brings new items, new quality of life improvements, bug fixes and more! There’s a ton to dig into, so read on for the official Terraria September 28 patch notes. Terraria Update 1.29 Patch Notes | Terraria Labor of Love Patch Notes | Terraria Update 1.4.4 Patch Notes | Terraria September 28 Patch Notes: New Special Seeds and Updates to Special Seeds – Added the “Remix” World Seed, where the player spawns in the Underworld and makes their way up. Worldgen is heavily overhauled, and enemy spawns and item drops are changed – Added the “No Traps” World Seed, for those players who just totally hate dying to traps during their Terraria adventures. – Added the “Everything” World Seed, a combination of all of the major seed features from every other special seed. For the Worthy Updates – Numerous changes and threats have made their way to the FTW seed, to demand even more worthiness from players – Classic difficulty FTW worlds automatically behave as Expert. Expert FTW worlds are automatically Master. – Should now be possible to 100% complete the Bestiary Not the Bees Updates – Spider Caves now generate in Not The Bees worldgen – All fish should be catchable now – Should now be possible to 100% complete the Bestiary Don’t Starve Seed Updates – Don’t Starve Darkness damage increased from 50 to 250, and the time before being hurt decreased from 8 to 4 seconds – Eating regular mushrooms will reset hunger back to full duration Peckish if you are Peckish, Hungry, or Starving Celebration Seed Updates – A number of changes have been made to Celebration worlds to make them even more fancy and festive! New Items and Content – Added 8 Slime Town Pets! Collect em all! – Added over 300 new items – Added over 25 new blocks and walls – Added over 55 new paintings – Added a few new vanity accessories and items – Added a new tree type – Added 3 new furniture sets – Added Crimson and Corrupt Mud Grass. Corruption and Crimson no longer dry out Jungle Grass into dirt when corrupting it, but instead simply spread to the grass portion. – Added Rubblemaker – Added Shellphone – Added Hand of Creation – Added Echo Coating and changed Illuminant Paint to be Illuminant Coating. Coatings function exactly like paint, except they can be stacked with any other paint and each other. – Added Lilith’s Necklace – Added Poo – Added Terraformer – Added a Biome Sight Potion – Added Jungle Birds – Added Flymeal, bane of Townsfolk everywhere – Added a few more pre-Hardmode weapons – Added Bottomless Honey Bucket and Honey Absorbent Sponge – Added Fart Kart – Added Resplendent Dessert – Re-implemented Pixel Boxes to be sold by the Mechanic, which have been updated to have improved functionality for pixel displays. – Re-implemented the deprecated Mini Star Cell Banner. It drops and buffs its respective enemy. Regular Star Cell banner no longer gives a buff against Mini Cells. UI and Menu QoL Changes – Added Equipment Loadouts. Changed F1-F3 keys to be the default bindings for Loadout Swapping, and F4 was changed to be the keybind for Camera mode. – You can now place any accessory in social slots again. Social slot eligibility tooltip removed. – Increased the max stack size of nearly all stackable items to 9999. – You can now stack Guide Voodoo Dolls! But . . . with great stacking comes great responsibility. Throwing a stack of more than one into lava may have unwanted consequences. – Void Bag now can be opened/closed with right click. A closed Void Bag will no longer pick up overflow items, and functions more like a Money Trough. An open Void Bag still picks up overflow items, and gains a number of new features, including: – Using Quick Buff, Food, and Potions from its Storage. This includes Mana Flower Mana Potions. Wormhole Potions will also work automatically from within it. – Allow crafting directly from Void Bag Contents – Favoriting items inside of it – Quick Stack to Nearby Chests from its contents – Keys within it can be used to unlock chests – Info accessories, Wire vision accessories, and Mechanical ruler all work from within it – Void Bag will now also collect overflow items when looting chests – Bestiary now shows kill count for that enemy – Bestiary now shows stats based on the current gameplay session (based on things like difficulty, seed, etc) – Added an accessibility option which will allow all weapons to be autofired – Painter now has two shops menus. Wares are split between them to prevent his wares from being locked out of purchase due to too many items being in one shop. – You can now link Angler quest fish in the player chat box – All Quest Fish items now have tooltips saying where to catch them (useful for sharing in chat message) – Paintbrushes, Fishing Rods, and Clentaminator now show the currently selected “ammo” by the cursor – Clentaminator now works with Rifle/Sniper Scope functionality – Angler Set, Fishing Accessories, and the Fishing Potion now all indicate how much Fishing Power increase they grant – The +/- options to change Zoom now zoom twice as fast – Updated some outdated loading and Guide text about things such as Lucky Horseshoe and Meteorites – When in Journey mode, mousing over items in the crafting menu will show how many are needed to Research. This also applies to Guide and Tinkerer UI slots. – Some info accessory tabs are grayed out when inactive or display N/A, and will light back up when active again. Gold Critters will appear in gold on the Lifeform Analyzer. – Changed the Quest info for Pengfish and Pixiefish to be more consistent with similar fish – Quick Stack to Nearby Chests now has a visual effect, showing the items which are being quick stacked moving towards the chests they go into – Added flavor text and info text for Portal Gun – Equipping any of the Monoliths in accessory slots will create a player-side shader effect in the same way that Radio Thing does – Playing musical instruments now shows the note on the cursor – Significantly increasing the range of quick stack to nearby chests – Pumpkin and Frost Moon will now display the total score when the event is over. – Flower Accessory’s social display visual now draws over helmets/face accessories, to allow combining. Additionally, Jungle Rose has been changed from a Head Vanity to a Vanity Accessory. – Worlds in the World Menu where Moon Lord have been defeated now have a special border around their icon – Added an option to show health/mana display numbers on Health/Mana UI settings – Added an option to display numbers on boss health bars – When a Sandstorm is active, the Weather Radio info accessory will display it, alternating between it and the standard weather display – Character creation now defaults to Classic mode instead of Journey mode – Summoning tooltips now say they deal “Summon” damage instead of “Minion” damage – The game now tracks deaths, and they can be viewed with the /death and /pvpdeath commands. Additionally includes the /alldeath and /allpvpdeath for server-wide numbers. – Made some consistency improvements to tooltip text displaying Up/Down messages – Capricorn Legs/Tail now instant-transform into each other, and maintain favorite status, rather than simply spawning a new item in a different inventory location – Shift-clicking items to the research slot automatically researches the item. – When randomizing a character, more hairstyles are available to be rolled – When randomizing a character, the game will pick female characters more often than before (which previously was actually quite uncommon) – Most of the Stylist haircuts are now available when creating your character – Added an option to disable quick trash in the main menu – When using Journey mode’s reach booster, it also increases item pickup range – Encumbering Stone can be right clicked from the inventory or hotbar to make it Uncumbering, allowing more controllable use of its pickup blocking function – Your equipped pet can now be seen on the player selection menu with your character – Journey sliders now have interactible buttons which allow you to snap to specific points Content Changes and Feature Expansions – Added new achievements – Added new Death Messages – Added several new title texts – Added many new words to the random world name list – Added new sounds to several weapons and enemies – Ropes and Minecart tracks can now intersect, allowing you to use a rope and a minecart in the same spot without having to break one – Similarly, Ropes and Platforms can also now intersect. – The player no longer collides with platforms when on a rope pulley, to allow for ropes which go through platforms – You can now exchange your Town pet by using another Pet License (They can now be purchased infinitely from the Zoologist) – Smashing altars no longer generates random blocks of infection in the world – Traveling Merchant now has an extra guaranteed item slot in his inventory in Hardmode. This slot can only contain items from the 4 less common item pools, with the most common items being excluded. – Traveling Merchant now has an extra guaranteed item slot in his inventory at all times. This slot will ALWAYS contain a painting. Paintings have been removed from all of his other inventory slots, which will slightly increase the odds of obtaining the rest of his wares. – Angler no longer drops furniture items as part of his regular drop pool. Instead, he now has a chance to give a bonus Furniture drop when completing quests. The odds of getting a bonus furniture drop increase as your Quests completed increases. – Right clicking the Eternia Crystal Stand during the cooldown between OOA waves will allow you to skip the delay and immediately start the next wave. The Eternia Crystal stand and the first wave completed message also indicate this fact. – Upon defeating all 3 mechs for the first time, the game will now attempt to immediately spawn a Plantera Bulb in the Jungle – Glowing Mushroom grass and trees now glow different colors when painted – Critter Cages can now be stacked and stood on like platforms – Increased the minimum size of Underground Deserts from 50% of the maximum size to 75% of the maximum. The maximum size has not increased. – The player can now have double the number of active buffs/debuffs (44 total) before they start overriding each other – Torch God’s Blessing can now convert Campfires as well – You can now block swap torches and campfires – Players can now blockswap ropes out for platforms or minecart tracks if there is already a platform/minecart track to the side of the rope – All Lockable Chests can now be re-locked using Chest Locks – The Extractinator can now be used to turn fishing trash into low level bait – When getting a hole in one in golf, it now says so instead of saying 1 stroke – Slime Rain can now only begin from 6 AM to Noon, but the odds of it happening are now 4x as high. This will result in the same number of Slime Rains overall, but they simply start in the morning. – Most critters which spawn from tiles or trees now have a brief delay before they can be killed (the same as how Worms from tiles are protected) – When hitting trees, the tree will now always show a visual puff of leaves, even if nothing is dropped, to indicate that a successful tree hit has been performed – Banners, Hanging Bottles, and Lanterns can now be placed on unhammered platforms and all other platform hammer configurations – Reverting a previous change that altered how Frozen Slime Blocks merged with regular Slime Blocks and other blocks. They are now intentionally inconsistent with regular Slime Blocks for building purposes. – Crystal Shards can now grow on Pearlsand, Hardened Pearlsand, and Pearlsandstone – Rainbow Bricks now use an improved map color gradient – Abigail’s Flower now breaks in one hit when mined and makes a grassy sound when doing so – Zenith’s swing SFX now plays more often to more appropriately match its swing speed – Rod of Discord’s item sprite is now bright and generates some light, making it easier to see if it drops – Resprited several of the core progression swords to be bigger and more up to date – Starfury’s star has been given a visual overhaul – You can now fish while partially submerged in water, as long as the player’s arms are above the bobber. This includes fishing in an Inner Tube! – Cracked Dungeon Bricks can now be broken by projectiles – Added recipes for all 9 safe versions of Dungeon Walls – Added recipes for all of the Dungeon worldgen platforms – Added a recipe for Magic Mirror – Heavily optimized recipe checking code. This should result in dramatically reduced/eliminated FPS drops when large numbers of recipes are calculated on the fly (such as when opening a chest that contains large numbers of crafting materials when near crafting stations) – Balla Hat and Gangsta Hat are now sold during day and night respectively, instead of 24/7 – Ocean water is now slightly more transparent and easier to see in – The Nurse can now comment on how often you have been dying in her random dialogue – Some Boss Masks can now be combined with Beard Accessories – Increased movement speed of Hardcore Ghosts – Teleporters no longer produce flickering light passively Terraria Patch 1.4.4 Bug Fixes: Crashes and Major Issues – Fixing an issue which prevented Terraria from working on some Mac OSX 12 installations – Fixed a crash that could happen if various critters went outside of the world’s boundary – Fixed a crash relating to Sand falling in multiplayer – Fixed a rare crash with Companion Cube in multiplayer – Fixed a crash caused by Lightning Aura Sentries dropping through the bottom of the world – Fixed a crash issue related to Ice Rod in multiplayer – Fixed a crash relating to loading and unloading resource packs – Fixed an issue where invalid Torch frames would cause problems on servers – Fixed an issue when attempting to verify integrity of game files, a single file would always fail to validate. This did not actually cause any gameplay issues, but has been a persistent and nagging concern for players who are attempting to trouble-shoot other legitimate issues. Combat, Enemy, and Weapon Issues – Fixed a quirk of Duke Fishron’s Cthulhunado that would sometimes instantly spawn it on the player and hurt them unavoidably. It should now spawn a certain distance below the player if there is no floor nearby, allowing the player time to avoid it – Fixed an issue where Whips that gave Attack Speed buffs would incorrectly apply the buff to Melee weapons. Their tooltips have been updated to emphasize this fix. – Fixed a bug where standing on certain configurations of platforms would allow teleporting enemies to teleport directly on top of you and cause damage – Fixed a bug where, if stacking multiple sources of defense penetration, it would allow weapons to deal extra phantom damage above base damage – Fixed a bug where Sanguine Staff and Terraprisma could hit a single enemy more than once per swing – Fixed a bug with Blood Thorn causing its thorns to unintentionally lose damage on every pierce – Fixed a bug where Deadly Spheres minions would spontaneously de-aggro from enemies in the middle of combat – Fixed a issue where Empress of Light would sometimes teleport directly on top of the player – Fixed a bug that caused mana to not regenerate at normal speeds when on infinite flight mounts – Fixed an issue where Ichor Dart and Celebration MK2 would sometimes rapidly hit more than intended – Fixed Flocko and Krampus not giving wave progression points during Frost Moon – Fixed a bug where Frost Moon’s Waves 2, 3, and 4 required way too few points to progress – Fixed an issue with ammo consumption for Flamethrower and Elf Melter – Fixed a bug where Chain Knife and Flairon had a strange damage hitbox in the upper corner of the player – Fixed a bug where Rocket Launcher could not received Ranged prefixes such as Unreal – Fixed a bug where Beam Sword forced you to turn to face the direction it is firing its projectile when autoswinging – Fixed a bug where Imp Staff would randomly rapidly fire at enemies under specific circumstances. It can still fire at an above average speed in these circumstances, but it isn’t as extremely fast now. – Fixed an issue where underground Mothrons did not check to make sure they were laying eggs on solid tiles, including laying eggs in lava like a terrible parent – Fixed an issue where quadruped enemies would not fall through platforms – Fixed an issue that prevented Horseman’s Blade from proccing on certain targets, such as Moon Lord’s eyes or naturally spawned critters – Fixed some issues where size downscaled bosses in Special Seeds had inaccurate hitboxes – Fixed Bee enemies and Explosive Bunnies being able to rapidly hit enemies with no iframe cooldown – Fixed being idle on infinite flight mounts not protecting from Worm spawns – Fixed Old One’s Army Flyer behavior where they would fly under the ground and not come back up, thus avoiding defenses – Fixed an issue where some Frost Legion enemies didn’t have the correct movement speed – Fixed a bug causing Super Star Shooter’s projectile to die when having your back to a wall – Fixed a bug where Corruptors and Giant Fungi Bulbs would fire at Hardcore ghosts Gameplay Functionality Issues – Fixed some long running issues where the size or quantity of some worldgen features were not properly accounted for in Medium worlds, resulting less of some things like the Jungle or Mushroom biomes – Fixed a bug that caused daily Tree Shake count to be cumulative across all worlds – Fixed a worldgen bug that has existed since the beginning of the game that prevented Demon/Crimson Altars from spawning deep underground. You will now find many more of them much deeper Underground. – Fixed an issue where some infected tiles were not being detected by the Dryad, including some sand types, plants, vines, and thorns – Fixed an exploit allowing conservation of Etherian Mana after Old One’s Army ends – Fixing more inconsistencies between seeded PC and Mac/Linux worldgen, though ultimately it may be impossible to completely eliminate all variation due to fundamental OS differences at a basic level – Fixed the player taking damage from Don’t Starve darkness when in well lit areas due to being in another window – Fixed an issue where joining into a world where the Real Estate Agent achievement was “valid” for unlock would not unlock it until the next time an NPC moved in. It should now unlock immediately upon joining. – Fixed an issue where small patches of sand around the world would generate with Underground Desert backwalls, allowing those enemies to spawn – Fixed an issue where Sandstone Chests that generated too high in the world would turn into Gold Chests instead – Fixed another issue with Giant Mahogany Trees generating over chests or the Temple – Fixed Lavafly Jar not counting as a light source for housing – Fixed a bug with Boulder traps causing overlap issues with chests if they generated too close – Fixed NPCs standing in front of each other too often, and Town Pets standing over chairs and blocking Town NPCs – Fixed a bug where Life Fruit, Plantera Bulbs, and Jungle Plants would not properly break the plant tiles they replaced – Fixed Campfire Minibiomes sometimes generating incorrectly – Fixed Dirt Rod’s Dirt Ball projectiles destroying some decorative tiles – Fixed an issue where Smart Cursor would sometimes target solid blocks when trying to place Herb Seeds – Fixed a similar issue where Smart Cursor would try to plant Pumpkins in non-valid locations – Fixed a long running inconsistency where Tall Grass couldn’t grow in front of most fences – Fixed Mushroom Grass not breaking in one hit when using Gravedigger’s Shovel – Fixed the player being able to fish up Dungeon items before Skeletron is defeated – Fixed an issue where NPCs could teleport home instantly at any time when standing on Dungeon Brick – Fixed Dye Plants growing in Honey – Fixed Jungle Torches not being used by Torch God’s Favor when inside of the Temple – Fixed some Rubble types “surviving” tile change via infection/Clentaminator when they should not. – Fixed Pumpkins not breaking themselves when the tile beneath them was changed to be non-valid for plant growth – Fixed a bug where Gold Goldfish could not spawn in underwater living tree tunnels – Fixed Lucky Coin not working properly in Multiplayer on Expert and Master mode Visual / Audio Issues – Fixed an issue where unsafe and safe versions of the same Wall type did not properly merge together – Fixed an issue with OGG resource pack tracks not detecting loops properly – Fixed an issue with some held projectiles (Spears, Flails) jittering a bit when the player goes up and down half-blocks – Fixed the offset on Geyser trap tiles so that they merge more seamlessly with blocks they are placed on – Fixed an issue with some gore moving at extremely high speeds through the entire world – Fixed an issue with infected Cacti, Oasis plants, and Sea Oats only showing as green on the map – Fixed an issue with falling Slush Blocks not having a sound or dust when Slush Balls break – Fixed a sprite issue where most fences that were “floating” were visually cut-off at the bottom – Fixed the top row of the underground background layer not allowing light, causing visual artifacts – Fixed an issue where Crystal Shards could grow on sloped blocks, resulting in them floating – Fixed an audio desync with certain guns in multiplayer – Fixed a number of Rubble piles creating the wrong dust color when broken – Fixed a minor visual offset with Video Visage’s screen sprite when facing different directions – Fixed a positioning issue with Furnace and Hellforge to resolve some tile sheet issues in texture packs – Fixed cattails and vines not maintaining paint when growing – Fixed King Slime’s crown not properly adjusting its size under some circumstances – Fixed an issue where Money Hair Dye’s color system would break and cycle through colors of the rainbow when reaching particularly large quantities of money – Fixed Frozen Chandelier’s light being the wrong color – Fixed Hardmode ores generating with paint when replacing a painted tile – Fixed an issue where Silly Sunflower Bottoms and Frog Legs, when worn together, would show the player with no legs at all – Fixed some spriting issues in the Minotaur pet’s animation – Fixed an issue where sitting in a chair while underwater and while also wearing an Inner Tube would make the player’s legs draw incorrectly – Fixed the Ocean not being bloody during a Blood Moon – Fixed Kimono pants being treated like a robe, breaking sitting frames, as well as an issue with the female Kimono “jumping” sprite UI, Input, Text and Tooltip Issues – Gamepad now tries matching Button Instructions to the inventory slot your cursor is on immediately. Hovering over a button or item with the cursor will show the relevant Gamepad instructions. – Fixed an issue where exiting the research menu mid-animation would result in the animation resuming when you opened it back up later – Fixed Info Accessories not properly updating their display when the game is paused – Fixed an issue allowing Armor Swapping with sold items – Fixed Moon Lord’s health bar flickering when he spawns – Fixed Gravedigger Shovel using two different recipes for Iron and Lead. It now just uses a single AnyIron recipe – Fixed world names/seeds being able to exceed the size limit of the text box under certain conditions – Fixed an issue where sorting Chests and then changing directly from that Chest to another Chest (without closing) would maintain the color highlight of the sorted slots – Fixed an issue where Boss health bars that have scaled health due to multiplayer would have an incorrect display for players joining the server mid fight – Fixed link buttons on main menu not working on Mac/Linux – Fixed a bug where the Tongued debuff did not actually give its unique death message if it killed you – Fixed a minor capitalization issue in the “Web Spit” projectile – Wasp Gun’s tooltip now properly indicates that it penetrates defense (Wasp Gun Wasp Gun) – Fixed an issue where all of the 3 Shroomite Helmets caused the tooltip damage of weapons they boosted to be slightly inaccurate. It would make the tooltip damage round up by 1 extra, making for a displayed damage that was incorrect compared to the actual amount of damage done. The actual damage done has not changed. – Fixed a bug where player kills by self-destructing enemies might give a death message for the wrong enemy – Fixed an issue where the game would not display your dropped coin count if you dropped an inordinately large amount of platinum on death – Fixed a text inconsistency in the Venom Flask tooltip – Fixed an issue where NPCs would refer to the Underground as “NormalUnderground” – Fixed some text menus in the game not being compatible with the virtual keyboard when using Gamepad – Fixed Lava Moss’ tooltip and rarity color not matching the other glowing moss – Fixed a number of other inconsistencies with item rarity colors and sell values – Fixed Djinn’s Curse having “vanity” tooltip line, as it does actually confer mechanical benefits Multiplayer Syncing and Functionality Issues – Fixed Tombstones desyncing when landing in multiplayer – Fixed an issue with Moss growth not syncing in multiplayer when the moss was above ground – Fixed some syncing issues with Nimbus Rod and Crimson Rod – Fixed a certain server exploit – Fixed a desync with Whips and Spears in multiplayer – Fixed a server launch failure caused when providing an invalid world file pathway via the server config file – Fixed a visual swing animation issue with Flying Knife when using Feral Claw-type accessories in multiplayer – Fixed an issue causing Banner drops to be attributed to an uninvolved player on servers – Fixed an issue where Keybrand’s particle effects didn’t show up for the user in multiplayer – Fixed bucket-removed water not syncing properly sometimes in multiplayer – Fixed a number of PVP debuffs not syncing properly in multiplayer – Fixed a syncing issue with Tesla Turret projectiles in multiplayer – Fixed a visual desync with flopping fish critters in multiplayer – Fixed an issue where Dry Bombs and similar items would not sync fluid properly on servers – Fixed an issue where Rainbow Gun could arc down and draw across the entire world for some people in multiplayer – Fixed an issue with sloped blocks not syncing their slope changes when sand fell on them in multiplayer There’s more to dig into with the balance changes, which you can read in-depth right here. Stay connected to MP1st and the latest news by following us on Bluesky, X, Facebook, TikTok, YouTube, and Google News.


--- [Terraria Update 1.29 Patch Notes: What's New In ... - GameInfinitus] ---
Terraria update 1.29 is out now for PS4, Xbox One, PC, and Nintendo Switch. You can get the complete patch notes for the update here. This new update is called Labor of Love and it is out today on all major platforms. You can get more information on Terraria update 1.29 with the patch notes shared below. You can also have a look at the official website to learn more about it. Terraria Update 1.29 Patch Notes New Special Seeds and Updates to Special Seeds – Added the “Remix” World Seed, where the player spawns in the Underworld and makes their way up. Worldgen is heavily overhauled, and enemy spawns and item drops are changed – Added the “No Traps” World Seed, for those players who just totally hate dying to traps during their Terraria adventures. – Added the “Everything” World Seed, a combination of all of the major seed features from every other special seed. For the Worthy Updates – Numerous changes and threats have made their way to the FTW seed, to demand even more worthiness from players – Classic difficulty FTW worlds automatically behave as Expert. Expert FTW worlds are automatically Master. – Should now be possible to 100% complete the Bestiary Not the Bees Updates – Spider Caves now generate in Not The Bees worldgen – All fish should be catchable now – Should now be possible to 100% complete the Bestiary Don’t Starve Seed Updates – Don’t Starve Darkness damage increased from 50 to 250, and the time before being hurt decreased from 8 to 4 seconds – Eating regular mushrooms will reset hunger back to full duration Peckish if you are Peckish, Hungry, or Starving Celebration Seed Updates – A number of changes have been made to Celebration worlds to make them even more fancy and festive! New Items and Content – Added 8 Slime Town Pets! Collect em all! – Added over 300 new items – Added over 25 new blocks and walls – Added over 55 new paintings – Added a few new vanity accessories and items – Added a new tree type – Added 3 new furniture sets – Added Crimson and Corrupt Mud Grass. Corruption and Crimson no longer dry out Jungle Grass into dirt when corrupting it, but instead simply spread to the grass portion. – Added Rubblemaker – Added Shellphone – Added Hand of Creation – Added Echo Coating and changed Illuminant Paint to be Illuminant Coating. Coatings function exactly like paint, except they can be stacked with any other paint and each other. – Added Lilith’s Necklace – Added Poo – Added Terraformer – Added a Biome Sight Potion – Added Jungle Birds – Added Flymeal, bane of Townsfolk everywhere – Added a few more pre-Hardmode weapons – Added Bottomless Honey Bucket and Honey Absorbent Sponge – Added Fart Kart – Added Resplendent Dessert – Re-implemented Pixel Boxes to be sold by the Mechanic, which have been updated to have improved functionality for pixel displays. – Re-implemented the deprecated Mini Star Cell Banner. It drops and buffs its respective enemy. Regular Star Cell banner no longer gives a buff against Mini Cells. UI and Menu QoL Changes – Added Equipment Loadouts. Changed F1-F3 keys to be the default bindings for Loadout Swapping, and F4 was changed to be the keybind for Camera mode. – You can now place any accessory in social slots again. Social slot eligibility tooltip removed. – Increased the max stack size of nearly all stackable items to 9999. – You can now stack Guide Voodoo Dolls! But . . . with great stacking comes great responsibility. Throwing a stack of more than one into lava may have unwanted consequences. – Void Bag now can be opened/closed with right click. A closed Void Bag will no longer pick up overflow items, and functions more like a Money Trough. An open Void Bag still picks up overflow items, and gains a number of new features, including: – Using Quick Buff, Food, and Potions from its Storage. This includes Mana Flower Mana Potions. Wormhole Potions will also work automatically from within it. – Allow crafting directly from Void Bag Contents – Favoriting items inside of it – Quick Stack to Nearby Chests from its contents – Keys within it can be used to unlock chests – Info accessories, Wire vision accessories, and Mechanical ruler all work from within it – Void Bag will now also collect overflow items when looting chests – Bestiary now shows kill count for that enemy – Bestiary now shows stats based on the current gameplay session (based on things like difficulty, seed, etc) – Added an accessibility option which will allow all weapons to be autofired – Painter now has two shops menus. Wares are split between them to prevent his wares from being locked out of purchase due to too many items being in one shop. – You can now link Angler quest fish in the player chat box – All Quest Fish items now have tooltips saying where to catch them (useful for sharing in chat message) – Paintbrushes, Fishing Rods, and Clentaminator now show the currently selected “ammo” by the cursor – Clentaminator now works with Rifle/Sniper Scope functionality – Angler Set, Fishing Accessories, and the Fishing Potion now all indicate how much Fishing Power increase they grant – The +/- options to change Zoom now zoom twice as fast – Updated some outdated loading and Guide text about things such as Lucky Horseshoe and Meteorites – When in Journey mode, mousing over items in the crafting menu will show how many are needed to Research. This also applies to Guide and Tinkerer UI slots. – Some info accessory tabs are grayed out when inactive or display N/A, and will light back up when active again. Gold Critters will appear in gold on the Lifeform Analyzer. – Changed the Quest info for Pengfish and Pixiefish to be more consistent with similar fish – Quick Stack to Nearby Chests now has a visual effect, showing the items which are being quick stacked moving towards the chests they go into – Added flavor text and info text for Portal Gun – Equipping any of the Monoliths in accessory slots will create a player-side shader effect in the same way that Radio Thing does – Playing musical instruments now shows the note on the cursor – Significantly increasing the range of quick stack to nearby chests – Pumpkin and Frost Moon will now display the total score when the event is over. – Flower Accessory’s social display visual now draws over helmets/face accessories, to allow combining. Additionally, Jungle Rose has been changed from a Head Vanity to a Vanity Accessory. – Worlds in the World Menu where Moon Lord have been defeated now have a special border around their icon – Added an option to show health/mana display numbers on Health/Mana UI settings – Added an option to display numbers on boss health bars – When a Sandstorm is active, the Weather Radio info accessory will display it, alternating between it and the standard weather display – Character creation now defaults to Classic mode instead of Journey mode – Summoning tooltips now say they deal “Summon” damage instead of “Minion” damage – The game now tracks deaths, and they can be viewed with the /death and /pvpdeath commands. Additionally includes the /alldeath and /allpvpdeath for server-wide numbers. – Made some consistency improvements to tooltip text displaying Up/Down messages – Capricorn Legs/Tail now instant-transform into each other, and maintain favorite status, rather than simply spawning a new item in a different inventory location – Shift-clicking items to the research slot automatically researches the item. – When randomizing a character, more hairstyles are available to be rolled – When randomizing a character, the game will pick female characters more often than before (which previously was actually quite uncommon) – Most of the Stylist haircuts are now available when creating your character – Added an option to disable quick trash in the main menu – When using Journey mode’s reach booster, it also increases item pickup range – Encumbering Stone can be right clicked from the inventory or hotbar to make it Uncumbering, allowing more controllable use of its pickup blocking function – Your equipped pet can now be seen on the player selection menu with your character – Journey sliders now have interactible buttons which allow you to snap to specific points Content Changes and Feature Expansions – Added new achievements – Added new Death Messages – Added several new title texts – Added many new words to the random world name list – Added new sounds to several weapons and enemies – Ropes and Minecart tracks can now intersect, allowing you to use a rope and a minecart in the same spot without having to break one – Similarly, Ropes and Platforms can also now intersect. – The player no longer collides with platforms when on a rope pulley, to allow for ropes which go through platforms – You can now exchange your Town pet by using another Pet License (They can now be purchased infinitely from the Zoologist) – Smashing altars no longer generates random blocks of infection in the world – Traveling Merchant now has an extra guaranteed item slot in his inventory in Hardmode. This slot can only contain items from the 4 less common item pools, with the most common items being excluded. – Traveling Merchant now has an extra guaranteed item slot in his inventory at all times. This slot will ALWAYS contain a painting. Paintings have been removed from all of his other inventory slots, which will slightly increase the odds of obtaining the rest of his wares. – Angler no longer drops furniture items as part of his regular drop pool. Instead, he now has a chance to give a bonus Furniture drop when completing quests. The odds of getting a bonus furniture drop increase as your Quests completed increases. – Right clicking the Eternia Crystal Stand during the cooldown between OOA waves will allow you to skip the delay and immediately start the next wave. The Eternia Crystal stand and the first wave completed message also indicate this fact. – Upon defeating all 3 mechs for the first time, the game will now attempt to immediately spawn a Plantera Bulb in the Jungle – Glowing Mushroom grass and trees now glow different colors when painted – Critter Cages can now be stacked and stood on like platforms – Increased the minimum size of Underground Deserts from 50% of the maximum size to 75% of the maximum. The maximum size has not increased. – The player can now have double the number of active buffs/debuffs (44 total) before they start overriding each other – Torch God’s Blessing can now convert Campfires as well – You can now block swap torches and campfires – Players can now blockswap ropes out for platforms or minecart tracks if there is already a platform/minecart track to the side of the rope – All Lockable Chests can now be re-locked using Chest Locks – The Extractinator can now be used to turn fishing trash into low level bait – When getting a hole in one in golf, it now says so instead of saying 1 stroke – Slime Rain can now only begin from 6 AM to Noon, but the odds of it happening are now 4x as high. This will result in the same number of Slime Rains overall, but they simply start in the morning. – Most critters which spawn from tiles or trees now have a brief delay before they can be killed (the same as how Worms from tiles are protected) – When hitting trees, the tree will now always show a visual puff of leaves, even if nothing is dropped, to indicate that a successful tree hit has been performed – Banners, Hanging Bottles, and Lanterns can now be placed on unhammered platforms and all other platform hammer configurations – Reverting a previous change that altered how Frozen Slime Blocks merged with regular Slime Blocks and other blocks. They are now intentionally inconsistent with regular Slime Blocks for building purposes. – Crystal Shards can now grow on Pearlsand, Hardened Pearlsand, and Pearlsandstone – Rainbow Bricks now use an improved map color gradient – Abigail’s Flower now breaks in one hit when mined and makes a grassy sound when doing so – Zenith’s swing SFX now plays more often to more appropriately match its swing speed – Rod of Discord’s item sprite is now bright and generates some light, making it easier to see if it drops – Resprited several of the core progression swords to be bigger and more up to date – Starfury’s star has been given a visual overhaul – You can now fish while partially submerged in water, as long as the player’s arms are above the bobber. This includes fishing in an Inner Tube! – Cracked Dungeon Bricks can now be broken by projectiles – Added recipes for all 9 safe versions of Dungeon Walls – Added recipes for all of the Dungeon worldgen platforms – Added a recipe for Magic Mirror – Heavily optimized recipe checking code. This should result in dramatically reduced/eliminated FPS drops when large numbers of recipes are calculated on the fly (such as when opening a chest that contains large numbers of crafting materials when near crafting stations) – Balla Hat and Gangsta Hat are now sold during day and night respectively, instead of 24/7 – Ocean water is now slightly more transparent and easier to see in – The Nurse can now comment on how often you have been dying in her random dialogue – Some Boss Masks can now be combined with Beard Accessories – Increased movement speed of Hardcore Ghosts – Teleporters no longer produce flickering light passively
