=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gösta Mittag-Leffler - Wikipedia]
Mittag-Leffler was known as an advocate for female intellectual workers in an era when contributions by women were often overlooked or miscredited to men. He took great trouble in procuring Sofia Kovalevskaya a position of full professor of mathematics in Stockholm University.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6sta_Mittag-Leffler

[Helge von Koch - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics ...]
Jan 25, 2012 · In July 1911 von Koch succeeded Mittag-Leffler as professor of mathematics at Stockholm University. Von Koch's snowflake. Von Koch is famous for the Koch curve which appears in his paper Sur une courbe continue sans tangente, obtenue par une construction géométrique élémentaire Ⓣ published in 1904.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Koch/

[Niels Fabian Helge von Koch - Encyclopedia Britannica]
Jan 21, 2026 · Niels Fabian Helge von Koch (born January 25, 1870, Stockholm, Sweden—died March 11, 1924, Stockholm) was a Swedish mathematician famous for his discovery of the von Koch snowflake curve, a continuous curve important in the study of fractal geometry. Von Koch was a student of Gösta Mittag-Leffler and succeeded him as professor of mathematics at Stockholm University in 1911. His first work ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Niels-Fabian-Helge-von-Koch

[History - Mittag-Leffler]
Gsta MittagLeffler was born in Stockholm in 1846 and studied mathematics in Uppsala where he received his PhD in 1872 for a thesis on analytic function theory. In 1880 he returned to Stockholm in 1880 as the first professor of the new university. He founded Acta...
URL: https://www.mittag-leffler.se/about-us/history/

[Von Koch, Niels Fabian Helge]
Von Koch was then appointed to the chair of pure mathematics at the KTH. In July 1911 von Koch succeeded Mittag-Leffler as professor of mathematics at Stockholm University.
URL: https://bookofproofs.github.io/history/19th-century/koch.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gösta Mittag-Leffler - Wikipedia] ---
Magnus Gustaf "Gösta" Mittag-Leffler (16 March 1846 – 7 July 1927) was a Swedish mathematician. His mathematical contributions are connected chiefly with the theory of functions that today is called complex analysis. He founded the prestigious mathematical periodical Acta Mathematica and was its editor for 40 years. 
Mittag-Leffler was known as an advocate for female intellectual workers in an era when contributions by women were often overlooked or miscredited to men. He took great trouble in procuring Sofia Kovalevskaya a position of full professor of mathematics in Stockholm University. Mittag-Leffler was responsible for inducing the Nobel committee to recognize Marie Curie as an equal contributor to the discoveries "on the radiation phenomena" along with her husband Pierre Curie. Mittag-Leffler also began the process of nominating Henrietta Swan Leavett for the Nobel Prize in Physics for her identification of Cepheid variable stars, crucial to Edwin Hubble's work on the true size of the universe, however this had to be abandoned due to the astronomer's untimely death from stomach cancer in 1921.:118 
After World War I, Mittag-Leffler gave his estate in Djursholm and its remarkable library of books on mathematics to the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences; it became the foundation of the modern Mittag-Leffler Institute.


--- [Helge von Koch - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics ...] ---
Niels Fabian Helge von Koch Quick Info Stockholm, Sweden Danderyd, Stockholm, Sweden Biography Helge von Koch's father was Richert Vogt von Koch, who had a military career, and his mother was Agathe Henriette Wrede. Von Koch attended a good school in Stockholm, completing his studies there in 1887. He then entered Stockholm University.Stockholm University was the third university in Sweden and it was planned from 1865, opening in 1880 with Mittag-Leffler as its first professor of mathematics. We should note that although we shall refer to it here by its present name of Stockholm University, it was known in Sweden as Stockholms Högskola until 1950 which literally means "Stockholm High School". Von Koch spent some time at Uppsala University from 1888. He was a student of Mittag-Leffler at Stockholm University. Von Koch's first results were on infinitely many linear equations in infinitely many unknowns. In 1891 he wrote the first of two papers on applications of infinite determinants to solving systems of differential equations with analytic coefficients. The methods he used were based on those published by Poincaré about six years earlier. The second of von Koch's papers was published in 1892, the year in which von Koch was awarded a doctorate for his thesis which contained the results of the two papers. Von Koch was awarded a doctorate in mathematics by Stockholm University on 26 May 1892. Gårding writes in [2] that his doctoral thesis was:- ... a fantastically mature work ...Bernkoff writes in [1], however, that this work by von Koch:- ... cannot be called pioneering. His results were all fairly accessible, although many of the calculations are lengthy. He was aware, through a knowledge of Poincaré's work, of the possibility of obtaining pathological results but did little to explore them. Yet this work can be said to be the first step on the long road which eventually led to functional analysis, since it provided Fredholm with the key for the solution of his integral equation.Garding writes in [2]:- After the thesis von Koch wrote many papers, among others some on infinite determinants, for instance in 1901, but the subject did not have many possibilities for extension and growth and present interest is nil.Between the years 1893 and 1905 von Koch had several appointements as an assistant professor of mathematics. He failed in his application for the chair of algebra and number theory at Uppsala University. In 1905 Bendixson, who had also been a student of Mittag-Leffler, resigned his professorship at KTH, (in Swedish Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan; in English the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm), when he accepted a chair at Stockholm University. Von Koch was then appointed to the chair of pure mathematics at the KTH. In July 1911 von Koch succeeded Mittag-Leffler as professor of mathematics at Stockholm University. Von Koch's snowflake. Von Koch is famous for the Koch curve which appears in his paper Sur une courbe continue sans tangente, obtenue par une construction géométrique élémentaire Ⓣ published in 1904. This is constructed by dividing a line into three equal parts and replacing the middle segment by the other two sides of an equilateral triangle constructed on the middle segment. Repeat on each of the (now 4) segments. Repeat indefinitely. It gives a continuous curve which is of infinite length and nowhere differentiable. If one starts with an equilateral triangle and applies the construction, one gets the von Koch snowflake (sometimes called the von Koch star) as the limit of the construction. The von Koch snowflake is a continuous curve which does not have a tangent at any point. Von Koch's 1906 paper mainly consists of a proof of this fact. He also shows in the paper that there are two functions and which are both nowhere differentiable such that the snowflake curve is where . The first person to give an example of an analytic construction of a function which is continuous but nowhere differentiable was Weierstrass. At the end of his paper, von Koch gives a geometric construction, based on the von Koch curve, of such a function which he also expresses analytically. Von Koch also wrote papers on number theory, in particular he wrote several papers on the prime number theorem such as Sur la distribution des nombres premiers Ⓣ in 1901 and Contribution à la théorie des nombres premiers Ⓣ in 1910. References (show) - M Bernkopf, Biography in Dictionary of Scientific Biography (New York 1970-1990). See THIS LINK. - L Garding, Mathematics and Mathematicians : Mathematics in Sweden before 1950 (Providence, R.I., 1998). - E Hellinger and O Toepletz, Encyklopädie der Mathematischen Wissenschaften II (Leipzig, 1923-27). Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Helge von Koch: Other websites about Helge von Koch: Cross-references (show) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update May 2000 Last Update May 2000


--- [Niels Fabian Helge von Koch - Encyclopedia Britannica] ---
Niels Fabian Helge von Koch Niels Fabian Helge von Koch (born January 25, 1870, Stockholm, Sweden—died March 11, 1924, Stockholm) was a Swedish mathematician famous for his discovery of the von Koch snowflake curve, a continuous curve important in the study of fractal geometry. Von Koch was a student of Gösta Mittag-Leffler and succeeded him as professor of mathematics at Stockholm University in 1911. His first work was on the theory of determinants of infinite matrices, a topic initiated by the French mathematician Henri Poincaré. This work now forms part of the theory of linear operators, which are fundamental in the study of quantum mechanics. He also worked on the Riemann hypothesis (see Riemann zeta function) and the prime number theorem. - Died: - March 11, 1924, Stockholm (aged 54) - Subjects Of Study: - Riemann zeta function - Von Koch’s snowflake curve - determinant - matrix Von Koch is remembered primarily, however, for a 1906 paper in which he gave a very attractive description of a continuous curve that never has a tangent. Continuous, “nowhere differentiable” functions had been rigorously introduced into mathematics by the German Karl Weierstrass in the 1870s, following suggestions by the German Bernhard Riemann and, even earlier, by the Bohemian Bernhard Bolzano, whose work was not well known. Von Koch’s example is perhaps the simplest. Starting with an equilateral triangle, it replaces the middle third of each segment with an equilateral triangle having the deleted portion of the segment as its base (the base is erased). This replacement operation is continued indefinitely, with the result that the limiting curve is continuous but nowhere differentiable. If the new triangles always face outward, the resulting curve will have a striking resemblance to a snowflake, and so the curve is often called von Koch’s snowflake.


--- [History - Mittag-Leffler] ---
History Institut Mittag-Leffler was founded in 1916 by Gösta Mittag-Leffler and his wife Signe, born Lindfors, and was incorporated in The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1919. Please verify and be careful about any phishing and scam attempts from external companies. All conferences and research programs at IML are free of charge. We will not ask you for any payments regarding your accommodation or travel arrangements Institut Mittag-Leffler was founded in 1916 by Gösta Mittag-Leffler and his wife Signe, born Lindfors, and was incorporated in The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1919. Gösta Mittag-Leffler was born in Stockholm in 1846. He studied mathematics in Uppsala where he received his Ph.D. in 1872 for a thesis on analytic function theory. This branch of mathematics always remained his main field of interest. The decisive event in his mathematical development, however, was a fellowship which led him to study first in Paris and then in Berlin from 1873 to 1876, bringing him into contact with leading mathematicians such as Charles Hermite and Henri Poincaré in France and Karl Weierstrass in Germany. He subsequently obtained a professorship in Helsinki. After a few years there he returned to Stockholm in 1880 as the first professor of the new university. In Stockholm Mittag-Leffler was very successful in developing mathematics. Another professorship, obtained for Sonja Kovalevsky, was the first appointment anywhere of a woman as a professor much by help of Gösta Mittag-Leffler. Mittag-Leffler attracted many outstanding students such as Edvard Phragmén, Ivar Bendixson, Helge von Koch and Ivar Fredholm. He maintained his excellent international mathematical contacts and strengthened them by founding Acta Mathematica as an international mathematical journal in 1882. First-rate contributions from leading mathematicians in France and Germany were obtained, and Mittag-Leffler managed to arrange financial support from the Scandinavian governments, partly through the patronage of King Oscar II of Sweden and Norway. Acta Mathematica is still published by the Institut Mittag-Leffler and is one of the oldest and most prestigious mathematical journals in the world. Mittag-Leffler was also very active in business. His wife came from a wealthy family in Finland, but Mittag-Leffler became a successful businessman in his own right. This gave him the resources to collect an impressive mathematical library, and he built a villa in Djursholm, a residential suburb of Stockholm, to house it. The villa was built and extended in three stages around 1890, 1900, and 1906 by the well known Swedish architects Rudolf Arborelius, Carl Westman and Ferdinand Boberg. Gösta Mittag-Leffler was somewhat of a renaissance man, well versed and interested in the arts and in politics, as well as in science. He was famous for the grandiose Nobel festivities given at his villa in Djursholm on December 11 during the years 1904-1914. Though Mittag-Leffler lived in his villa, it was clearly built with other plans in mind. These were stated explicitly in the will, which he and his wife made public on his 70th birthday in 1916. There they set up a foundation intended to promote research in pure mathematics in the Scandinavian countries. The foundation was to maintain the large library in the villa and to support a research institute there with several professors, and with fellowships for younger mathematicians. When announced in 1916 the plans for the institute were realistic, at least in that Mittag-Leffler’s financial resources were adequate for the task. However, in 1922 there was a large financial crash related to the economic crises in Europe at the time. The crash brought Mittag-Leffler near bankruptcy, and at his death in 1927 the resources did not allow the full realisation of his original intentions. The Mathematicians of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences appointed Torsten Carleman as director of the institute. Carleman was a professor at Stockholm University and kept this as his main position. He lived in Mittag-Leffler’s villa where the library was maintained and occasional lectures were given. Also the publication of Acta Mathematica was continued but there was no active institute as originally planned. After Carleman’s death in 1949 unsuccessful attempts were made to appoint a director who would activate the institute. For almost 20 years, the institute existed only as a growing library used by a handful of mathematicians in the Stockholm area and supervised by a member of the board. In 1969 Lennart Carleson, director of the institute until 1984, finally realized the intentions of Mittag-Leffler. With financial support from the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation and a few insurance companies, housing for visitors was constructed and the main bulding was modified to provide the required office space. Grants from the Nordic countries made it possible to start inviting foreign mathematicians for extended visits, and to support young mathematicians with fellowships. Since 1969, the institute has been operating in all essential ways as envisaged by Gösta Mittag-Leffler. In March 2016, the institute celebrated its 100th anniversary.


--- [Von Koch, Niels Fabian Helge] ---
Person: Von Koch, Niels Fabian Helge Helge von Koch is best known for the fractal Koch curve. Mathematical Profile (Excerpt): - Von Koch attended a good school in Stockholm, completing his studies there in 1887. - Von Koch spent some time at Uppsala University from 1888. - Von Koch's first results were on infinitely many linear equations in infinitely many unknowns. - The second of von Koch's papers was published in 1892, the year in which von Koch was awarded a doctorate for his thesis which contained the results of the two papers. - Von Koch was awarded a doctorate in mathematics by Stockholm University on 26 May 1892. - Between the years 1893 and 1905 von Koch had several appointements as an assistant professor of mathematics. - Von Koch was then appointed to the chair of pure mathematics at the KTH. - In July 1911 von Koch succeeded Mittag-Leffler as professor of mathematics at Stockholm University. - Von Koch's snowflake. - Von Koch is famous for the Koch curve which appears in his paper Sur une courbe continue sans tangente, obtenue par une construction géométrique élémentaire Ⓣ(On a continuous curve without tangent, obtained by an elementary geometrical construction) published in 1904. - If one starts with an equilateral triangle and applies the construction, one gets the von Koch snowflake (sometimes called the von Koch star) as the limit of the construction. - The von Koch snowflake is a continuous curve which does not have a tangent at any point. - Von Koch's 1906 paper mainly consists of a proof of this fact. - At the end of his paper, von Koch gives a geometric construction, based on the von Koch curve, of such a function which he also expresses analytically. - Von Koch also wrote papers on number theory, in particular he wrote several papers on the prime number theorem such as Sur la distribution des nombres premiers Ⓣ(On the distribution of prime numbers) in 1901 and Contribution à la théorie des nombres premiers Ⓣ(Contribution to the theory of prime numbers) in 1910. Born 25 January 1870, Stockholm, Sweden. Died 11 March 1924, Danderyd, Stockholm, Sweden. View full biography at MacTutor Tags relevant for this person: Analysis, Geometry, Origin Sweden Thank you to the contributors under CC BY-SA 4.0! - Github: - - non-Github: - @J-J-O'Connor - @E-F-Robertson References Adapted from other CC BY-SA 4.0 Sources: - O’Connor, John J; Robertson, Edmund F: MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive
