=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Wexner Center Presents First Performance of Merce Cunningham Dance ...]
Jan 6, 2010 · Merce Cunningham Dance Company (MCDC) will embark upon The Legacy Tour, a final two-year international tour that will commence on Friday, February 12 at 8 pm at the Wexner Center’s Mershon Auditorium.
URL: https://wexarts.org/press/wexner-center-presents-first-performance-merce-cunningham-dance-company-s-legacy-tour

[THE LEGACY TOUR: THE LAST "SOUNDDANCE" - Nancy Dalva]
It was first performed on March 8, 1975, in Detroit, Michigan, with Cunningham in the central role now danced by his sole successor in the part, Robert Swinston, his longtime assistant, and now the current Director of Choreography for The Merce Cunningham Dance Company. The Merce Cunningham Dance Company, with Robert Swinston at far right.
URL: https://mercecunninghamstudies.com/the-legacy-tour-the-last-sounddance/

[Merce Cunningham Dance Company Member Dylan Crossman Talks About The ...]
Feb 15, 2010 · This February, MCDC begins The Legacy Tour, a two-year-long trip around the world presenting the work of company founder and groundbreaking choreographer Merce Cunningham, who passed away last July. After the final performance in 2011, the company will close.
URL: https://dancespirit.com/merce-cunningham-dance-company-member-dylan-crossman-talks-about-the-c/

[Merce Cunningham Dance Company - The Legacy Tour]
Mar 21, 2010 · On the one hand, Cunningham’s 57- year-old company began its 2-year journey into the history books by bidding the first of its many farewells to audiences and on the other hand, a packed Mershon Auditorium got to say goodbye to the late icon who passed away last July and his company in the best way possible by taking in two of Cunningham’s quintessential dance works.
URL: https://artsair.art/2010/03/21/merce-cunningham-dance-company-the-legacy-tour/

[A farewell to Merce Cunningham: 'The Legacy Tour' at the ... - POLITICO]
Dec 9, 2011 · On Dec. 7, the company presented a dazzling rendition of the ambitious 1983 Roaratorio. Subtitled An Irish Circus on Finnegans Wake, this bold attempt to bring James Joyce’s masterpiece to life...
URL: https://www.politico.com/states/new-york/albany/story/2011/12/a-farewell-to-merce-cunningham-the-legacy-tour-at-the-brooklyn-academy-of-music-069077


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Wexner Center Presents First Performance of Merce Cunningham Dance ...] ---
The Wexner Center Store site is under maintenance. Have any questions? (614) 292-3535 Contact Us Wed, Jan 06, 2010 Event Includes Pre-Show Talk, Post-Show Q&A, Film, Web Reflections, More “He has taught us something new and powerful about how to dance and how to live.” —Mikhail Baryshnikov, on the late Merce Cunningham Columbus, OH—Choreographer Merce Cunningham, who died in July at age 90, was universally acknowledged as one of the true artistic pioneers of our time. In keeping with his express wishes just prior to his passing, the Merce Cunningham Dance Company (MCDC) will embark upon The Legacy Tour, a final two-year international tour that will commence on Friday, February 12 at 8 pm at the Wexner Center’s Mershon Auditorium. This concert will both commemorate and celebrate Cunningham as an unrivaled force during the last 60 years in dance and vanguard multidisciplinary practice, whose work was acknowledged here in 1993 when he received the Wexner Prize (jointly awarded to his frequent collaborator, composer John Cage, who passed away prior to the Prize event). The Legacy Tour will be audiences’ last opportunity to see Cunningham works performed by the superb dancers he personally trained. At the conclusion of the world tour, the company will disband permanently, closing an important chapter in this country’s creative legacy. Showcasing two pieces spanning Cunningham’s rich career, the evening draws from the master’s early work and later choreography. The program features Crises from 1960, a piece set to music composed for player pianos by American maverick composer Conlon Nancarrow with costumes by Robert Rauschenberg, and Split Sides, a recent work with an electronic score composed by leading art rock bands Radiohead and Sigur Rós. SHOW INFORMATION: The Wexner Center presents Merce Cunningham Dance Company: The Legacy Tour Friday, February 12 at 8 pm in the Wexner Center’s Mershon Auditorium, 1871 N. High St. on The Ohio State University campus. Works include Crises and Split Sides. Run time: 90 minutes with intermission. Ticket prices are $28–$36 for the general public, $24–$32 for members, and $20 students (upper balcony only), available at the Wexner Center Ticket Office (614 292-3535), or through ticketmaster.com/800-745-3000. $5 High 5 tickets also available for middle- or high- school students. A group rate is available for groups of 10 or more; contact the ticket office at 614 292-3535 for more information. “Merce is for Lovers” package deal at The Blackwell ($225 for deluxe accommodations, two tickets to the show, and more); details here. Pre-show talk at 7 pm; post-show Q&A offered as well. Visit www.wexarts.org for additional information. Notes Wexner Center Director Sherri Geldin, “The Wexner Center is enormously proud to launch The Legacy Tour celebrating Cunningham’s extraordinary, lifelong contribution to the evolution of contemporary dance and creative expression. As an institution that itself commissions, supports, and presents multidisciplinary work—and having awarded the 1993 Wexner Prize to Merce Cunningham and John Cage— the Wex is a fitting venue at which to inaugurate this two- year tribute tour.” Two distinguished faculty members of Ohio State’s Department of Dance, Karen Eliot and David Covey, will offer personal remembrances of their own experiences working with the MCDC in a pre- concert talk at 7 pm (free to all ticketholders). Eliot is a former dancer with Cunningham’s company, whose book, Dancing Lives: Five Female Dancers from the Ballet d’Action to Merce Cunningham (2007), investigates Cunningham’s historical contribution. In 1998 Covey received a BESSIE award for his lighting design for the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, and now serves as production coordinator for Ohio State’s Department of Dance. Their reflections of Cunningham’s artistic legacy are also posted online at www.wexarts.org (Covey’s here and Eliot’s here). A post-performance Q&A session with Robert Swinston, director of choreography, and David Vaughan, company archivist, will conclude the evening and provide further insight into the work of this American master. A master class in Cunningham technique, taught by a Cunningham company member, will take place at Ohio State’s Department of Dance for Ohio State dance students and invited local dancers. Merce Cunningham Dance Company web site: www.merce.org. Wexner Center Director Sherri Geldin’s thoughts on Cunningham’s legacy: https://wexarts.org/blog/musings-merce EVENT AND SEASON SUPPORT Merce Cunningham Dance Company is presented with major support from the Ohio Arts Council and the National Endowment for the Arts. Major support forthe Wexner Center’s 2009–10 performing arts season is generously provided by the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. Accommodations provided by The Blackwell Inn. Promotional support is provided by 90.5 FM WCBE. Performing arts programs and events also receive support from the Corporate Annual Fund of the Wexner Center Foundation and Wexner Center members, as well as from the Greater Columbus Arts Council, The Columbus Foundation, Nationwide Foundation, and the Ohio Arts Council. Tacita Dean’s Craneway Event Friday, February 12 12:30 and 3:30 pm Wexner Center Film/Video Theater Free admission In conjunction with the MCDC performance, the Wexner Center presents artist Tacita Dean’s Craneway Event film project. Dean spent three days in the fall of 2008 filming Cunningham and his dancers developing an “Event” (the company’s term for a performance composed of movement phrases from past works) in a former Ford assembly plant on the waterfront in the Bay Area. The resulting 16mm feature marks Cunningham’s final appearance on film and was constructed by Dean from 17 hours of footage. The 2009 film is 108 minutes long.


--- [THE LEGACY TOUR: THE LAST "SOUNDDANCE" - Nancy Dalva] ---
DECEMBER 2011, THE KENNEDY CENTER “Sounddance” is Merce Cunningham’s iconic work, and now, this week, it will be performed for the last time in a theater where it has been at home before, in the nation’s capital. Here, once again, before our ears and in our ears, three arts-conceived separately and only converging in the theater–will combine, as if they were made for one another. The first is of course the dance; the second the decor (costumes and scenery) the third, the music. There is not, has not been, and won’t ever be another Cunningham dance with a greater unity of impression than this one, the elements joining in a felicitous and exponential explosion. You don’t have to look far into this occasion to see that this last performance of this dance is ripe with metaphor. Next week, the company returns to New York, for performances at The Brooklyn Academy of Music. Then it’s on to Paris. On Christmas Eve, the company will fly home to give its final performances–three last days at the Park Avenue Armory. But in Washington, the very last month in the life of a company that began in 1953 starts with the piece that sums it all up. Everything is in this dance. It always was. And still, it expands to absorb current situation, current meaning, current thought. “Sounddance” is one of the very greatest of dances. It is as iconic as Nijinsky’s “Sacre du Printemps,” and shares its convulsive musical and choreographic energies. It was first performed on March 8, 1975, in Detroit, Michigan, with Cunningham in the central role now danced by his sole successor in the part, Robert Swinston, his longtime assistant, and now the current Director of Choreography for The Merce Cunningham Dance Company. Casts have come and gone in the piece, and there are echoes, and there are resonances. Chris Komar danced in the original and later revived it, the dance surging back to life as his own was winding down, destroyed by AIDS. At that revival’s first performance, Cunningham came out on stage during the curtain calls with Komar at his side, and the two took a bow together, holding hands, both wearing suits. (Never before, such a joint bow, and never after.) You might think such history is lost as a work moves forward in time–and perhaps it will be, but it is not lost yet. Robert Swinston staged this revival with Meg Harper. They both danced with Komar, they both worked with him, they are both Cunningham technique pedagogues of the highest order. (Harper headed the Cunningham Dance Studio faculty; Swinston has trained generations of Cunningham dancers, and even now will teach a six o’clock beginners class and remain in the room afterwards, making dancers stronger, clearer, more secure, and more aware of themselves in space.) You don’t have to know any of this to see the dance, of course, and I don’t think about it –though sometimes it all comes to me unbidden– mostly when I see it I am in it. Merce Cunningham BECAUSE that’s where Merce Cunningham is. You can, in a sense, visit him in this dance. It is flesh of his flesh–he was still vividly performing and demonstrating when he made it–and born in a flash. He had just returned from Paris, where he staged “Un Jour ou Deux” on the Paris Opera Ballet, and home in his own studio, with his own company, he experienced a relief from the many exasperating exactions of working with the French. He spoke beautiful French, he was honored by the French, he is revered by the French, his company is received in Paris as nowhere else; but this does not preclude a certain impatience with regimentation and protocol. Cunningham had an abhorrence of what he called “fuss.” He did, after all, to use his words, like to “bust things open.” Not only the conventions of the stage, but the conventions of making. Here’s how the dance proceeds: The curtain goes up on a bare and silent stage—in the beginning is the void– cloaked in black side curtains, with the ten vertical feet or so of Mark Lancaster’s curtained drop gleaming at the back. The empty stage, and beyond, nothing. Or nothing knowable. We see this for about ten seconds, and then the utterly fabulous percussive sound score by David Tudor kicks in, and keeps on kicking, with dense patterns of sound that are layered, like flocking on fabric, dense, rich, textured. Out of the center of the backdrop spins a lone figure. It is a significant role, for this dancer–first Cunningham, now Swinston–is a master of ceremonies. You will perhaps have seen this figure in other Cunningham works: for instance the wizard with-a-wand part the choreographer gave himself in “Signals;” the magister ludi giant-stepping across the stage in “Exchange;” the ghost-like figure in “Enter.” THE CHOREOGRAPHER, conjuring up his dancers, and his dance. This is–and there are works that can be read just the same way in the repertories of other choreographers–a dance about dance, and about dancing. About, among other things, beginning a dance company; and beginning a dance. It is also a dance that functions, as do so many of Cunningham’s nature studies, on both the microscopic and the macrocosmic levels. Birth of the universe? Creation of heaven and then the peopling of the earth? Cells dividing and redividing? For out from behind that curtain will ratchet nine more people who will mate, conjoin, polymorphously generate life in the guise of more dancing; who will tilt against the air like salmon swimming upstream, with Swinston-in gestures I don’t recall seeing in any other Cunningham work–placing the dancers, shepherding them, and manipulating one of the women as if she were a doll. His is a position of power, and at a price: all the energy on the stage spills out from him. The stage teems with life, life, life–dancers caught up in constant complex lifts, spins, shifts, re-groupings, convulsive couplings and triplings. It all feels fast, but if you watch “Sounddance” in silence, without the driving force of the score, you will see that there is slow within fast, and fast within slow. A rapid overall arc, with modulated phrasing within. NEW ORBITS, new cells, and withal, some correspondences from the outer choreographic universe, the greater work of Merce Cunningham. Looking at it now, you can see where the dance came from, and where, in the sense of its echoes in later work–it went. For, as with any other great artist, you can look at Cunningham’s works separately, or as one body. Here are elements known from other pieces. Small points of technical expression, like a flexed foot, as in starting a jig. (This is Joycean, after all.) And perhaps most central, that circle Cunningham sets forth like the circling dancers of Matisse he found so beautiful, but at times invoking something entirely else: A circle is something you can do….And the circle can be small or big or it can be circuitous. You even see it when you see animals surrounding a prey . It’s almost like a circle they make because they’ve come at this from different angles, and instead of it being aligned, where it starts here and goes this way, it does something where it completes itself. They don’t do it because they’re making a circle. They’re doing it to attack this situation. And I think a circle has a closed effect. You’re surrounding something so that it’s like—Well, you can say it’s a lot of things. It might be people attacking something, for example. Merce Cunningham for “Mondays with Merce” AT ITS END, the dance winds itself back, and one after another, the dancers are sucked–or ushered–back into the void from which they emerged. A lifetime that passes in 17 minutes. Then applause roars forth, and people surge to their feet, for “Sounddance” is an efficient and exciting energy transfer device. (It fills you up, and you send it back.) They applaud the dancers, the musicians. And of course, they applauded the choreographer. This was the last dance performed in his lifetime, on the very day he died. The company danced at Jacob’s Pillow in the afternoon, and in the evening, as thunder cracked open the sky, he took his last breath. At his last “Sounddance” in Washington, Cunningham stayed in the wings, timing the dance with his stop watch as usual, and watching it with his eagle eye. This was during a period when he had retreated from curtain calls, being too wobbly to walk onstage securely. Later–starting at the Hopkins Center at Dartmouth–he began to take bows from his wheelchair. It wasn’t the way he liked to appear, but it was practical and courteous–two of his signal characteristics. Perhaps, also, it was simply the renewal of a pleasure he had so long enjoyed–being onstage. But back then, he remained backstage. As the Kennedy Center audience cheered, his company took two brief curtain calls, and the lights came with the house still in tumult. “Where’s Merce?” someone asked. It’s a question I have been asking people since he died, in interview after interview: Where is Merce for you now? There have been many answers, some entirely surprising. But it seems clear, if you think about it on his own terms. Nancy Dalva: One of the things I learned from “Enter” is that an exit is also an entrance, and that when you’re leaving something you’re also going someplace. Merce Cunningham: You’re going to something else. Yes. In one our our nineteen interviews for Mondays with Merce, Cunningham said, “You can make up a narrative. I don’t object if someone comes up with a story.” But I don’t have to make this up: “Sounddance” will end, and the world will go dark for a time. As Valda Setterfield said to me after his death, “Merce was the sun.” All quotations from Mondays with Merce ©Nancy Dalva. Photographs courtesy of The Merce Cunningham Trust. Parts of this essay were first published by Alexandra Tomalonis in “DanceViewTimes.” ©Nancy Dalva


--- [Merce Cunningham Dance Company Member Dylan Crossman Talks About The ...] ---
Merce Cunningham Dance Company Member Dylan Crossman Talks About The Company's Legacy Tour When 25-year-old Dylan Crossman joined the Merce Cunningham Dance Company last June, he had no idea he was about to embark on a once-in-a-lifetime journey. This February, MCDC begins The Legacy Tour, a two-year-long trip around the world presenting the work of company founder and groundbreaking choreographer Merce Cunningham, who passed away last July. After the final performance in 2011, the company will close. Crossman, who was a member of the company’s Repertory Understudy Group for two years before joining MCDC, took some time to talk to DS about his experiences with the company. Dance Spirit: How does it feel to be part of The Legacy Tour? Dylan Crossman: I don’t realize that it’s happening yet. Having just joined 6 months ago, even realizing that I’m in the company is intense because it’s something I wanted for such a long time. To finally be in the company, especially at a time that’s so special, makes me glad I stuck it out. DS : Do you have a favorite piece that’s part of the tour? DC: Nearly 90 and Nearly 90² are special because that was a choreographic process when the understudies got to work with Merce a lot. He gave us all of his attention and all of his trust. Even though we were still training, it always felt like we were good enough for him. Everything about those pieces reminds me of working with Merce. DS: What was it like to work and train with Merce Cunningham? DC: It was very rewarding. He would always be looking at us, paying attention, but at the same time he was also discreet; he would let us do our thing. At the end of his life he was in a wheelchair, so most of the communication was done orally. He could show us arms or demonstrate rhythms with his feet–that was something that was very Merce. He used to be a tap dancer, so he would say, “Look,” and tap the rhythm with his feet. But using words creates more flexibility in the choices you can make. Sometimes I think he was vague on purpose to see what each dancer would come up with. He would say, “Step forward,” and one of us would lunge and one of us would step on straight legs and one of us would step on bent legs. He would have a palette of choices in front of him. DS : What do you like most about the Cunningham technique? DC: It’s very rigorous and also very freeing. The whole beginning of the class is set, so you can focus on your body and how it feels because your brain doesn’t have to work hard. Everything we do is so extreme, pushing the limits of the body, so it’s important to know where your body is each day. DS: How does it feel to know that when this tour concludes, the company will close? DC: We try to take it day by day. For me, because I just joined, I don’t want to think about the end yet. I’m so happy and pleased and honored to be part of this–I just want to enjoy what’s happening right now. Photo by Anna Finke


--- [Merce Cunningham Dance Company - The Legacy Tour] ---
Dance Reviews 2010Merce Cunningham Dance Company – The Legacy Tour Merce Cunningham Dance Company in "Crises", Photographer: Briana Blasko Merce Cunningham Dance Company in “Split Sides”, Photographer: Tony Dougherty Mershon Auditorium Wexner Center for the Arts Ohio State University Columbus, OH February 12, 2010 By Steve Sucato There are farewell performances when an artist retires from the stage and wants to say goodbye to the stage and there are those when the audience is the one saying goodbye to an artist no longer living, but whose work has touched them in some meaningful way. In the case of Merce Cunningham and his Merce Cunningham Dance Company’s The Legacy Tour, which kicked off in Columbus at Ohio State University’s Wexner Center for the Arts, the farewells were a bit of both. On the one hand, Cunningham’s 57- year-old company began its 2-year journey into the history books by bidding the first of its many farewells to audiences and on the other hand, a packed Mershon Auditorium got to say goodbye to the late icon who passed away last July and his company in the best way possible by taking in two of Cunningham’s quintessential dance works. The program began with a revival of Cunningham’s 1960 work “Crises”. Two dancers, a female costumed in yellow and a male in red, began a series of somewhat erratic modern dance movements to composer Conlon Nancarrow’s cacophonous music for the work. Nancarrow’s music matched Cunningham’s simplistic looking choreography that was layered bit by bit onto the stage as three more of the company’s dancers joined the initial pair. Costumed in artist Robert Rauschenberg’s brightly colored red, yellow and orange unitards, the dancers shuffled, ran, and galloped about the stage in the straight-armed movement style Cunningham is known for. Cunningham’s choreography for the work vacillated between playful and precise. Dancers dropped to the stage floor and wriggled their way into the wings while others paused to balance on one leg in ballet-like poses. Straight legs and pointed feet shot into the air and dancer’s torsos drifted into off-center balancing poses with others looking as if performing tai chi exercises. Particularly impressive in “Crises” were the aptly-named Melissa Toogood as well as dancers Rashaun Mitchell and Julie Cunningham. Liverpool, England-native Cunningham’s (no relation to Merce) long limbs and lanky body showed well the choreographer’s penchant for balance and line in the work, while Toogood and Mitchell nicely captured the work’s physical attack and whimsy. Fast forwarding 43-years, the other work on the program, 2003’s “Split Sides” made clear that Cunningham’s experimental nature when it comes to dance choreography and music, had remained the same after four decades. “Split Sides” however, showed that in those four decades Cunningham developed a higher level of sophistication and refinement in his choreography. The work began with a prelude of sorts that came in the form of a series of dice rolls by one of the dancers to determine several key factors regarding the presentation of the work. The dice rolls determined from an A or B choice the costumes the dancers would wear, the work’s scenic decor and the orders of music and choreography. As the company’s dancers looked on and the audience got a close up view of each dice roll as it was projected on a large screen, it was determined the dancers would begin the work in James Halls’ black & white costumes backed by Catherine Yass’ set decor and dance Cunningham’s B-set of movement phrases to the music of alternative band Radiohead. Although Cunningham partially sketched out his choreographic ideas for “Split Sides” using the choreography computer program DanceForms, his movement vocabulary for “Split Sides” bore many similarities to the much older “Crises”. In “Split Sides” however, the movement was more aggressively paced, punchier and the choreography denser. Riffs of rapid-fire movement faded into slower passages as the work’s eclectic group of 15-dancers dancers populated the stage with numerous tidbits of engaging movement phrases. The work was like peering at busy town square where a multitude of individual stories were being told simultaneously in movement, each in its own way vying for the viewer’s attention. Within the work’s first half Cunningham built-in nods to Martha Graham, Paul Taylor and others. Also of note was a solo by dancer Silas Riener who strung together a series of tricky hopping and balancing steps. By the time the work settled into the lullaby-like music of Icelandic post-rock band Sigur Ros for its second half, one was already mesmerized by the deceptive ease the dancers moved through Cunningham’s choreography and barely noticed the changes in the set design and dancers costumes. While Cunningham’s movement palette for his A-set of choreography did not vary much from the B-set it didn’t seem to matter “Split Sides,” as well as “Crises” were brilliant examples of Cunningham at his accessible best. The company performed the works with dedication and heart garnering a standing ovation and the program proved a fitting first goodbye to the modern dance master and his namesake company. Copyright Steve Sucato Share this: Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email TweetMore Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on TumblrLike Loading... Related


--- [A farewell to Merce Cunningham: 'The Legacy Tour' at the ... - POLITICO] ---
No content
