=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Katharine Burr Blodgett | Encyclopedia MDPI]
Nov 18, 2022 · In 1972, the Photographic Society of America presented her with its Annual Achievement Award [5] and in 2007 she was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame. [16] In 2008 an elementary school in Schenectady was opened bearing her name.
URL: https://encyclopedia.pub/entry/35183

[Women of Discovery: Katharine Burr Blodgett]
1972: Granted the Annual Achievement Award from the Photographic Society of America 2007: After her death, she was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame Blodgett's niece and namesake, Katharine Blodget Gebbie, admired her aunt so much that she became a renowned scientist in her own right.
URL: https://discoverywestbend.com/women-of-discovery-blodgett/

[Katharine Burr Blodgett Facts for Kids]
Blodgett was born on January 10, 1898, in Schenectady, New York. She was the second child of Katharine Buchanan (Burr) and George Reddington Blodgett. Her father was a patent attorneyat General Electric where he headed that department. He had died just before she was born. Her mother was financially secure after her husband's death, and she moved t...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Katharine_Burr_Blodgett

[Katharine Burr Blodgett ~ Self-Rescuing Princess Society]
Katharine Burr Blodgett January 10 1898 October 12 1979 was the first woman to earn a PhD in physics from the University of Cambridge in 1926. She spent her career working for General Electric where she invented lowreflectance invisible glass. Senda Berenson Abb...
URL: https://selfrescuingprincesssociety.blogspot.com/2018/11/katharine-burr-blodgett.html

[The chemical genius of Katharine Burr Blodgett | Scientific American]
The chemical genius of Katharine Burr Blodgett. Her discoveries in materials science quietly shape our everyday world. Her legacy was eclipsed by the famous scientist she worked with at the General Electric Company. Katharine Burr Blodgett was among the first fe...
URL: https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-chemical-genius-of-katharine-burr-blodgett/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Katharine Burr Blodgett | Encyclopedia MDPI] ---
| Version | Summary | Created by | Modification | Content Size | Created at | Operation | |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| | 1 | Conner Chen | -- | 1496 | 2022-11-18 01:26:52 | Katharine Burr Blodgett (January 10, 1898 – October 12, 1979) was an American physicist and chemist known for her work on surface chemistry, in particular her invention of "invisible" or nonreflective glass while working at General Electric. She was the first woman to be awarded a Ph.D. in physics from the University of Cambridge, in 1926.[1] Blodgett was born on January 10, 1898 in Schenectady, New York. She was the second child of Katharine Buchanan (Burr) and George Bedington Blodgett. Her father was a patent attorney at General Electric where he headed that department. He was shot and killed in his home by a burglar just before she was born. GE offered a $5,000 reward for the arrest and conviction of the killer,[2] but the suspected killer hanged himself in his jail cell in Salem, New York.[3] Her mother was financially secure after her husband's death, and she moved to New York City with Katharine and her son George Jr. shortly after Katharine's birth. In 1901, Katherine's mother moved the family to France so that the children would be bilingual. They lived there for several years, returned to New York for a year, during which time Katherine attended school in Saranac Lake, then spent time traveling through Germany.[4] In 1912, Blodgett returned to New York City with her family and attended New York City's Rayson School. Blodgett's early childhood was split between New York and Europe, and she wasn't enrolled in school until she was eight years old.[5] After attending Rayson School in New York City, she entered Bryn Mawr College on a scholarship, where she was inspired by two professors in particular: mathematician Charlotte Angas Scott and physicist James Barnes.[5] In 1917, Irving Langmuir, a former colleague of her father and future Nobel Prize laureate, took Katherine on a tour of General Electric (GE)'s research laboratories. He offered her a research position at GE if she first completed higher education, so she enrolled in a master's degree program at the University of Chicago after receiving her bachelor's degree.[5] At the University of Chicago she studied gas adsorption with Harvey B. Lemon,[5] researching the chemical structure of gas masks.[4] She graduated in 1918 and took a research scientist position working with Langmuir. After six years at the company, Blodgett decided to pursue a doctoral degree with hopes of advancing further within GE. Langmuir arranged for her to study physics at Cambridge's Cavendish University, persuading somewhat reluctant Cavendish administrators to offer one of their few positions to a woman.[4] She studied with Sir Ernest Rutherford and in 1926 became the first woman to receive a PhD in physics from Cambridge University.[5] Blodgett was hired by General Electric as a research scientist in 1918 after receiving a master's degree from the University of Chicago.[6] She was the first woman to work as a scientist for General Electric Laboratory in Schenectady, NY. She often worked with Irving Langmuir, who had pioneered a technique for creating single-molecule thin films on the surface of water. Blodgett and Langmuir explored the application of similar techniques to lipids, polymers, and proteins, creating monomolecular coatings designed to cover surfaces of water, metal, or glass. These special coatings were oily and could be deposited in layers only a few nanometers thick.[7] In 1935, Blodgett extended Langmuir's work by devising a method to spread monomolecular coatings one at a time onto glass or metal. By repeatedly dipping a metal plate into water covered by a layer of oil, she was able to stack oil layers onto the plate with molecular precision. The apparatus which she used and refined is known as the Langmuir–Blodgett trough.[8][9] Using this technique, Blodgett developed practical uses for Langmuir’s gossamer films. Blodgett used a barium stearate film to cover glass with 44 monomolecular layers, making the glass more than 99% transmissive and creating "invisible" glass. The visible light reflected by the layers of film canceled the reflections created by the glass.[7] This type of nonreflective coating is now called Langmuir–Blodgett film and is widely used.[10] The first major cinematic production to use Blodgett's invisible glass was the popular film Gone with the Wind (1939), noted for its crystal-clear cinematography. Once introduced, nonreflective lenses were used for projectors and cameras by the post-war movie industry. Blodgett's glass was also used for submarine periscopes and airplane spy cameras during World War II.[7] Blodgett also invented the color gauge, a method to measure the molecular coatings on the glass to one millionth of an inch. The gauge employs the concept that different thicknesses of coatings are different colors. While examining the layering of stearic acid on a glass plate, she realized that the addition of each layer, about 2/10,000,000 inch thick, reliably changed the color of the plate. Before her invention, the best measurement instruments were only accurate to a few thousandths of an inch. Her glass "ruler" much more precisely showed the progression of colors and their corresponding thicknesses. Measuring thickness became as simple as matching colors.[11] Blodgett and Langmuir also worked on improvements to the light bulb. Their studies on electrical discharges in gases helped lay the foundations for plasma physics.[12] Dr. Blodgett was issued eight U.S. patents during her career. She was the sole inventor on all but two of the patents, working with Vincent J. Schaefer as co-inventor. Blodgett published over 30 technical papers in various scientific journals and was the inventor of poison gas adsorbents, methods for deicing aircraft wings, and improving smokescreens.[7] Blodgett never married and lived a vibrant life, living in a Boston marriage for many years with Gertrude Brown, who came from an old Schenectady family. For another period she also lived with Elsie Errington, the English-born director of a nearby girls' school. "The household arrangement freed Blodgett from most domestic responsibilities—except for making her famous applesauce and popovers." Unfortunately, she did not leave any personal papers with her thoughts about her long-term relationships with these women.[13] Blodgett's niece and namesake was astrophysicist and civil servant Katharine Blodgett Gebbie. In an autobiographical memoir,[14] Gebbie recalled that on family visits her Aunt Blodgett: Gebbie often spoke in later life of her aunt's influence by personal example on her choice of a career in science. One of her relatives is bliss blodget-Stephan and bliss blodget-Stephan’s daughter Zoe. Blodgett bought a home in Schenectady overlooking her birthplace where she spent most of her adult life. She was an actress in her town's theater group and volunteered for civic and charitable organizations. Blodgett was the treasurer of the Traveler's Aid Society there. She spent summers at a camp at Lake George in upstate New York, to pursue her love of gardening. Blodgett was also an avid amateur astronomer; she collected antiques, played bridge with friends [10] and wrote funny poems in her spare time. She died in her home on October 12, 1979. Blodgett received numerous awards during her lifetime. She received a star in the seventh edition of American Men of Science (1943), recognizing her as one of the 1,000 most distinguished scientists in the United States.[15] In 1945, the American Association of University Women honored her with its Annual Achievement Award.[15] In 1951 she received the prestigious Francis Garvan Medal from the American Chemical Society for her work on monomolecular films. That same year, she was chosen by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce as one of 15 "women of achievement.” Also in 1951, she was honored in Boston's First Assembly of American Women in Achievement (the only scientist in the group)[4] and the mayor of Schenectady honored her with Katharine Blodgett Day on June 13, 1951 because of all the honor she had brought to her community. In 1972, the Photographic Society of America presented her with its Annual Achievement Award[5] and in 2007 she was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame.[16] In 2008 an elementary school in Schenectady was opened bearing her name. She received honorary doctorates from Elmira College (1939), Western College (1942), Brown University (1942), and Russell Sage College (1944).[5]


--- [Women of Discovery: Katharine Burr Blodgett] ---
This month we’re profiling one of our Women of Discovery, who also has “Blodgett Street” named after her in the first phase of the Discovery West neighborhood! Holder of eight patents in a variety of fields, Katharine Burr Blodgett (1898-1979) was an American physicist and chemist and the first woman to earn a Ph.D. in Physics from Cambridge University. Her most lauded invention was non-reflective glass film and process in 1938, which is still used to accomplish things like limiting distortion in eyeglasses and lenses on microscopes, telescopes, cameras, and projectors. Many of her other significant work surrounded the application and measurement of the non-reflective film, including an apparatus to spread the coatings on surfaces known as the Langmuir–Blodgett trough. Langmuir was another scientist with whom she worked on this discovery. The non-reflective glass was used for submarine periscopes and airplane spy cameras during World War II. Her long career was full of other significant contributions as well. She also worked with Langmuir on studying electrical discharges in gases when seeking to improve light bulbs, helping to provide a basis for plasma physics. She also invented a method for deicing airplane wings and poison gas absorbents. Her “day job” was with General Electric, where she worked for 45 years until her retirement. She was the first female scientist to be hired by the company in 1918. She was widely recognized for her scientific work, receiving honorary doctorates from four colleges (including Brown University), as well as with highly esteemed national awards and honors. - 1943: Recognized American Men of Science as one of 1,000 most distinguished scientists in the United States - 1945: Received the Annual Achievement Award from the American Association of University Women - 1951: Awarded the Francis Garvan Medal from the American Chemical Society - 1951: Named a “Woman of Achievement” by the US Chamber of Commerce - 1951: Honored in Boston’s First Assembly of American Women in Achievement - 1972: Granted the Annual Achievement Award from the Photographic Society of America - 2007: After her death, she was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame Blodgett’s niece and namesake, Katharine Blodget Gebbie, admired her aunt so much that she became a renowned scientist in her own right. We’re proud to also have a “namesake” for Dr. Blodgett in our community at Discovery West as a street name in Phase One.


--- [Katharine Burr Blodgett Facts for Kids] ---
Katharine Burr Blodgett facts for kids Quick facts for kids Katharine Burr Blodgett | | |---|---| | Blodgett demonstrating equipment in lab, 1938 | | | Born | Schenectady, New York, U.S. | January 10, 1898 | Died | October 12, 1979 Schenectady, New York, U.S. | (aged 81) | Education | | | Occupation | | | Employer | General Electric | | Known for | | | Relatives | Katharine Blodgett Gebbie (niece) | | Awards | Garvan–Olin Medal (1951) | Katharine Burr Blodgett (born January 10, 1898 – died October 12, 1979) was an American scientist. She was a physicist and chemist. Katharine is famous for inventing "invisible" glass. This special glass doesn't reflect light. She created it while working at General Electric. In 1926, she became the first woman to earn a PhD in physics from the University of Cambridge. Contents Early Life and Family Katharine Blodgett was born in Schenectady, New York, on January 10, 1898. Her father, George Blodgett, was a patent attorney at General Electric. He sadly passed away just before Katharine was born. Her mother, Katharine Buchanan Blodgett, moved with Katharine and her older brother, George Jr., to New York City. In 1901, her mother decided to move the family to France. She wanted her children to learn to speak two languages. They lived in France for several years. After that, they traveled through Germany. In 1912, Katharine returned to New York City. She attended the Rayson School there. Katharine's Education Journey Katharine didn't start school until she was eight years old. After attending Rayson School, she received a scholarship to Bryn Mawr College. There, two professors greatly inspired her. They were mathematician Charlotte Angas Scott and physicist James Barnes. In 1917, a scientist named Irving Langmuir gave Katharine a tour. He was a former colleague of her father. Langmuir later won a Nobel Prize. He offered Katharine a job at General Electric (GE). But first, she needed to get more education. So, after earning her bachelor's degree, she went to the University of Chicago. She studied how gases stick to surfaces. This research was important for gas masks. She earned her master's degree in 1918. Then, she started working with Langmuir at GE. After six years, Katharine wanted to advance her career. She decided to get a doctoral degree. Langmuir helped her get into Cambridge University. She studied physics at the Cavendish Laboratory. In 1926, she made history. She became the first woman to earn a PhD in physics from Cambridge University. Groundbreaking Work at General Electric Katharine Blodgett joined General Electric as a research scientist in 1918. She was the first woman scientist to work at GE's lab in Schenectady, New York. She often worked with Irving Langmuir. He had developed a way to create very thin films, just one molecule thick, on water. Blodgett and Langmuir explored how to use these thin films. They applied them to different materials like oils, plastics, and proteins. They created special coatings that were only a few nanometers thick. These coatings could cover surfaces like water, metal, or glass. Inventing "Invisible" Glass In 1935, Blodgett improved Langmuir's work. She found a way to add these super-thin coatings one layer at a time. She would dip a metal plate into water covered with a layer of oil. Each dip added another layer of oil. This allowed her to stack layers with amazing precision. The tool she used is now called the Langmuir–Blodgett trough. Using this method, Blodgett found practical uses for these thin films. She covered glass with 44 layers of a special film. This made the glass more than 99% clear. It became "invisible" glass. The light reflected by the film layers canceled out the reflections from the glass itself. This non-reflective coating is now known as Langmuir–Blodgett film. This invention was very useful. The famous movie Gone with the Wind (1939) used Blodgett's invisible glass. It helped make the movie's pictures look very clear. After World War II, non-reflective lenses were used in movie projectors and cameras. Blodgett's glass also helped during the war. It was used in submarine periscopes and spy cameras on airplanes. The Color Gauge: Measuring Tiny Layers Blodgett also invented the color gauge. This tool could measure molecular coatings on glass. It was accurate to one millionth of an inch! She noticed that different thicknesses of coatings had different colors. As she added layers of a certain acid to glass, the color changed. Each layer was incredibly thin, about 2/10,000,000 of an inch. Before her invention, measuring tools were not nearly as precise. Her glass "ruler" made measuring thickness easy. You just matched the color to find the exact thickness. Blodgett and Langmuir also worked on making light bulbs better. Their studies on electricity in gases helped create the field of plasma physics. Katharine Blodgett received eight U.S. patents for her inventions. She was the main inventor on most of them. She also wrote over 30 scientific papers. Her other inventions included materials for poison gas masks, ways to de-ice airplane wings, and better smokescreens. Personal Life and Hobbies Katharine Blodgett lived her whole adult life in Schenectady, New York. She was an active member of her community. She enjoyed many hobbies, including gardening, astronomy, and collecting old items. She also helped with local groups like the Travelers Aid Society. Even after she retired in 1963, she kept doing her gardening experiments. This showed her lifelong love for discovery. She passed away on October 12, 1979. She left behind a legacy of new ideas and breaking barriers for women in science. Her niece, Katharine Blodgett Gebbie, was also a scientist. She remembered her Aunt Blodgett bringing "apparatus" when she visited. Her aunt would show them how to make colors by dipping glass rods into thin oil films on water. Gebbie often said her aunt inspired her to pursue a career in science. Katharine bought a home in Schenectady that looked over her birthplace. She was also an actress in her town's theater group. She volunteered for many community and charity groups. She spent summers at a camp at Lake George, where she loved to garden. Blodgett was also an enthusiastic amateur astronomer. She collected antiques, played bridge with friends, and wrote funny poems. Awards and Recognition Katharine Blodgett received many awards during her life. - In 1943, she was listed in American Men of Science. This recognized her as one of the top 1,000 scientists in the U.S. - In 1945, the American Association of University Women gave her their Annual Achievement Award. - In 1951, she received the important Francis Garvan Medal from the American Chemical Society. This was for her work on thin films. - Also in 1951, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce named her one of 15 "women of achievement." - The mayor of Schenectady honored her with "Katharine Blodgett Day" on June 13, 1951. This was because of all the honor she brought to her community. - In 1972, the Photographic Society of America gave her its Annual Achievement Award. - In 2007, she was added to the National Inventors Hall of Fame. - In 2008, an elementary school in Schenectady was named after her. She also received honorary doctorates from several colleges. These included Elmira College (1939), Western College (1942), Brown University (1942), and Russell Sage College (1944). These awards showed how important her work was and how she inspired others. Patents Katharine Blodgett held several U.S. patents for her inventions: - U.S. Patent 2,220,860 issued November 5, 1940: "Film Structure and Method of Preparation" - U.S. Patent 2,220,861 issued November 5, 1940: "Reduction of Surface Reflection" - U.S. Patent 2,220,862 issued November 5, 1940: "Low-Reflectance Glass" - U.S. Patent 2,493,745 issued January 10, 1950: "Electrical Indicator of Mechanical Expansion" (with Vincent J. Schaefer) - U.S. Patent 2,587,282 issued February 26, 1952: "Step Gauge for Measuring Thickness of Thin Films" - U.S. Patent 2,589,983 issued March 18, 1952: "Electrical Indicator of Mechanical Expansion" (with Vincent J. Schaefer) - U.S. Patent 2,597,562 issued May 20, 1952: "Electrically Conducting Layer" - U.S. Patent 2,636,832 issued April 28, 1953: "Method of Forming Semiconducting Layers on Glass and Article Formed Thereby" See also In Spanish: Katherine Blodgett para niños


--- [Katharine Burr Blodgett ~ Self-Rescuing Princess Society] ---
Katharine Burr Blodgett (January 10, 1898 – October 12, 1979) was the first woman to to earn a Ph.D. in physics from the University of Cambridge, in 1926. She spent her career working for General Electric, where she invented low-reflectance "invisible" glass. What I'm struck most by when reading about her life and work is that she just did her thing and didn't let anything get in her way. I'm sure it wasn't entirely that simple, of course. She knew what she wanted to do with her life, and did it. Her childhood was spent in France, where her mother moved the family a few years after Katharine's father was killed. She did well in school. The family's finances made it easy for her to enroll in private schools, but she had a scholarship for Bryn Mawr, where she earned her undergraduate degree. She went on to earn a master's in chemistry from the University of Chicago in 1918, and was quickly hired by General Electric, where her father had worked as a patent attorney in the years before he was shot. She worked with Irving Langmuir, who'd worked with her father, making her the first female scientists hired by GE. With his encouragement, she pursued a Ph.D. in physics, becoming the first woman to earn that degree at Cambridge when she graduated in 1926. Over the course of her long career with GE she developed a wide variety of projects, including several with military applications during both World War I and II. She is most well known for her invention of nonreflecting glass in 1938 -- a technique still used in the manufacture of optical equipment, cameras, telescopes, and eyeglasses to cut down on glare. She lived her personal life in a similar vein. She never married, and instead lived in a kind of long-term platonic (or maybe not?) relationship with two different women over the course of her lifetime. She was active in her community, and visited with her family regularly. Her niece, Katharine Blodgett Gebbie, was named after her, and grew up to follow in her aunt's footsteps, pursuing her own career in physics. You can read more about her work at GE at the Chemical Heritage Foundation's historical profile of Irving Langmuir and Katharine Burr Blodgett I can't do the work of SRPS without your your support! If you like what you found here, please share this post with your friends. If you like what you found here, please share this post with your friends.


--- [The chemical genius of Katharine Burr Blodgett | Scientific American] ---
Born to a family with a tragic past, Katharine Burr Blodgett defied the expectations of her upbringing as an upper-middle class girl to make chemistry and physics the center of her life. We trace Blodgett’s early years, as she picked up European languages, and her early scientific education at a progressive school for girls in New York City and then at Bryn Mawr, a women’s college. She seemed destined to end up working at the General Electric Company’s industrial research lab, but first she had to prove herself at the University of Chicago, where, in the middle of World War I, she worked to improve the lifesaving gas mask. LISTEN TO THE PODCAST On supporting science journalism If you're enjoying this article, consider supporting our award-winning journalism by subscribing. By purchasing a subscription you are helping to ensure the future of impactful stories about the discoveries and ideas shaping our world today. TRANSCRIPT Nobel Series Film Host: Alfred Nobel was the inventor of dynamite. He left his entire fortune for a purpose not only Nobel in name, but noble in nature. Katie Hafner : In 1939, the Nobel Prize Organization decided to celebrate some of its past laureates. They made this film featuring one of their winners, a chemist named Irving Langmuir, who won the prize in 1932, and in the film, he's standing in his lab at the General Electric Company, explaining some of the science that got him the prize. But he also describes another more recent breakthrough, the invention of non reflecting glass. The discovery was monumental, but Irving Langmuir, well, he's not exactly Bill Nye the science guy. Dressed in a three piece suit, he looks less like a scientist than a businessman about to board a commuter train into work. And then there's his delivery. Irving Langmuir: Uh, you need, uh, uh, a lighted surface. And, uh, you'll, I'll ask you to, uh, look over my shoulder. Katie Hafner: He's clearly uncomfortable. He has trouble finding words, and then he calls for reinforcements. His colleague at General Electric, Katharine Burr Blodgett, someone who knows the science as well as he does. Maybe better actually, since she's the one who discovered this type of non reflecting glass in the first place. She steps in to explain. Katharine Burr Blodgett: You may have been noticing the reflection from Dr. Langmuir’s spectacles. But it is possible to treat glass in such a way that it will not reflect light. This is done by coating both sides of the glass with a special type of film. Katie Hafner: Katharine Blodgett’s delivery is silken, confident. She's a hundred percent in command of her science. She is an inspiration, but for the duration of her career, Katharine Burr Blodgett worked in Irving Langmuir’s Shadow. I'm Katie Hafner, and this is Lost Women of Science. This season, we're doing something slightly different. We’re bringing you the story of Katharine Burr Blodgett, and alongside her story, we’ll be telling you about the life and science of Irving Langmuir, the man she worked with for nearly four decades. Katharine Blodgett was among the first female scientists employed at GE’s Research Laboratory when she was just 20 years old, and in 1926, a hundred years ago, she was the first woman to get a PhD in physics from the University of Cambridge. At GE, she made groundbreaking discoveries in material science. But while Irving Langmuir went on to win the Nobel Prize and rub shoulders with celebrities in and outside of science, and even star in a Kurt Vonnegut novel, Katharine Blodgett remained for most of her career, his apprentice, and she's been largely forgotten. And yet, when we dug into her story, what we found was as profound and dramatic as anything Vonnegut could invent, two scientists of equal brilliance, each tragic figures in their own way, as we shall see, working side by side in an era and a place that defined them both. Katie Hafner: You, you aren't, Peggy, are you? No. Unknown: No. Katie Hafner: Okay. Hi, are you Peggy? Peggy Schott: Katie? Hi yeah, Peggy. Katie Hafner: Hi, nice to meet you. Peggy Schott: Nice to meet you, finally. Katie Hafner: Peggy Schott is a chemist, recently retired from Northwestern University. Like us, Peggy has a deep curiosity about Katharine Burr Blodgett, and she offered to join producer Sophia Levin and me at the Library of Congress on a scorching and humid Washington DC day last summer in our search for signs of a woman buried in the papers left behind by a man. Katie Hafner: Um, where do we stash our stuff and, oh, these are the lockers. Okay. Peggy Schott: Yeah. Did you get your photo thing? Katie Hafner: I did. Peggy Schott: Check in with this lady at the desk. And then she'll give you a key to a locker. Katie Hafner: Okay, great. Katie Hafner : Peggy has been researching the life and work of Katharine Burr Blodgett, and she ended up identifying with her so strongly that she once presented a paper at a conference as if she were Katharine herself. Peggy Schott: Although I did not don a costume or make my hair gray or anything like that, I did act as though I was Dr. Blodgett, and it gave me a certain freedom to interpret her role. Katie Hafner: As the production team at Lost Women of Science would learn, Katharine Blodgett can definitely get under your skin, in the best possible way. Peggy offered to help us fill in the many blanks that still remained in Katharine’s biography and to bring her expert eye to all the science we were bound to encounter. The Library of Congress in Washington D.C. preserves much of our nation's collective intellectual memory, more than 73 million documents and objects in the manuscript division, housed in temperature and humidity-controlled storage facilities. Materials of all kinds, including handwritten and typewritten pages and microfilm, are kept in neat rows of archival boxes, some stacked six shelves high. We went there on a needle-in-a-haystack mission, if ever there was one. The haystack in question, the Irving Langmuir Collection in the Library of Congress, consists of 111 boxes filled with his correspondence, lab notebooks, and random other bits of relevant documents. 32,000 items in all, spanning 63 years. As for the Katharine Burr Blodgett collection, they don’t have one. In the course of reporting this season, we'd traveled to a catacomb-like archive in Schenectady, New York, a family storage unit in Eastern New Hampshire, and libraries in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, and Cambridge, England. In each place, searching for traces of Katharine Blodgett’s intellectual and personal footprint. And we did find things, college records, yearbooks, personal letters, diaries, photographs, store receipts, pay stubs, people with stories to tell. But Katharine's original lab notebooks. and there must be dozens of them, well, that's another story. Let me explain. When you're researching the science someone has done, you can look at their publications through the years, the patents they've received, their PhD dissertation, things like that, to get a sense of their scientific journey. But archives are crucial. When you can go through raw material, like laboratory notebooks, you can chart the course of their experiments, the triumphs and failures, and near misses. Sometimes these notebooks are written like real diaries, which can be fascinating and revealing. We had no idea where those notebooks might be or whether they even still existed. So we knew we'd be stitching Katharine’s scientific life together from scraps and shadows, listening for echoes of her in things written by Langmuir, tracing her presence in the margin of his notes. This is what it means to reconstruct a life when much of the record itself has gone missing. It is true that Langmuir deserved his 1932 Nobel Prize for his discoveries. But we're telling the story of Katharine Blodgett because she deserves a spotlight of her own. But why did Katharine dedicate the bulk of her professional life to the role of apprentice to Irving Langmuir? Without the notebooks, how will we know about the joy she found in science in general, and physics and chemistry in particular? Her love of experimentation? Her awe of Irving Langmuir? Our dismay over the missing notebooks is shared by Josh Levy, who's the historian of science and technology at the manuscript division of the Library of Congress. Josh Levy: In this case, it's especially frustrating, I think, because we have evidence that her work was documented, and the documentation seems to have been destroyed. Katie Hafner: Seems is the operative word here. We aren't giving up hope that we'll find Katharine’s notebooks somewhere, not this early in the game. So as we entered the library's imposing, rule-laden reading room, having stashed our backpacks and lunch in lockers, we're thinking that maybe those Langmuir papers at the Library of Congress, which three of us would spend four days poring over, will give us a clue to just how all that science got done and what was in her brilliant mind and his. After all, they worked together shoulder to shoulder for decades. They even share billing for developing what are known to this day as “Langmuir Blodgett films,” which I need to tell you right off the bat, have nothing to do with the movies. Katharine Blodgett made her biggest contribution to material science in the 1930s while working in the General Electric company's research lab, where she had the luxury of pursuing basic science with no specific product in mind. Building on work Langmuir had done in the 1910s, she developed a way for creating multiple layers of exceedingly thin films of substances, usually soaps, on a solid surface. By exceedingly thin, I mean a molecule that's one 10,000,000th of an inch thick. Imagine, if you can, something 30,000 times thinner than a human hair. So these films are stacked one on top of the other, maybe dozens of them, maybe hundreds or even thousands, creating invisible coatings. Eric Furst: This is every, you know, this is common today. This is a everyday sort of science and engineering today. Katie Hafner: That's Eric Furst, a professor of chemical engineering at the University of Delaware. Eric Furst: It is very much nanotechnology. And you know, I, we don't bat an eye at that type of thing. But wow, how pioneering that was, a hundred years ago. Katie Hafner: The ability to build and control matter at a molecular layer-by-layer scale opened up entirely new frontiers for material science and eventually nanotechnology, advancing the cutting edge of electronics and sensor development. In the early 1930s, Katharine Blodgett took Langmuir’s initial research and ran with it. With her coating technique, she was able to develop non-reflecting glass, a huge discovery that paved the way for the non-reflecting properties of museum glass, camera, and eyeglass lenses. In fact, any coating you see on a solid surface can trace its ideas back to the way Katharine prepared her built-up layers, which came to be known as Langmuir-Blodgett films. To put it very simply, the fruits of Katharine Blodgett’s foundational work are quite literally in everything all around you. Katharine Burr Blodgett was born on January 10th, 1898, in Schenectady, New York. Katharine and her older brother George were raised by their mother, a widow, who was also named Katharine. Her full name was Katharine Buchanan Burr Blodgett, and just because this might get a little bit confusing, we're going to call her Katharine Burr. Katharine Burr was doing the single mother thing a good two decades before women even had the legal right to vote. Still, Katharine Burr, who came from money, and that didn't hurt, moved through life as if she had yet to be acquainted with an obstacle. This is the role model Katharine Blodgett grew up with, a mother, ambitious in her goals for her children, and independent in her decision-making. Katharine Burr was determined to actively shape the course of her children's lives. As far as we can tell, Katharine and her older brother George were held to equal academic standards. This too was unusual at the time. The boys got a college education, and the girls, they generally got married off. Katharine Burr wanted every avenue open for her daughter, who would have the education and resources to pursue any field that sparked her interest. I mentioned that Katharine Burr had money. And with money come options. Here's Peggy Schott. Peggy Schott: It's a kind of a complicated series of events, but, after she moves the children to New York City, after a time there, they went to France Katie Hafner: Katharine Burr was convinced that the schools in Europe were better, and she wanted her kids to learn French, which they did. But when George marked his seventh birthday by announcing, “I now have seven years,” a direct translation from the way a French person would say it, Katharine Burr packed up the adventure and took the children back to the US for some English immersion. Then, the threesome went back to Europe, Germany, this time adding a third language to the children's repertoire. German, by the way, turned out to be a very handy language for Katharine to know when she got older. German was the lingua franca of science at the time, the language in which much of the world's most important research was published. Katharine Burr didn't label her daughter a prodigy, but I think it's fair to say that, already as a young child, she fit the bill. By at least one account, Katharine was reading at the age of two, and by the time she was four, she was writing as well. In 1907, the family was back in New York for good. The Blodgetts moved into a swanky new apartment building on West 79th Street on Manhattan's Upper West Side. The eight-story building was complete with telephones, an elevator, and a view of Riverside Drive near the Hudson River. Katharine was enrolled at the Misses Raysons’ School for girls on West 75th Street, a private school that educated its students all the way through high school. Here's Peggy Schott. Peggy Schott: It was a school that was founded by three sisters. Their mother works there also. They had come over from England, and they founded the school in the 1800s. Katie Hafner: The Rayson sisters were smitten with 10-year-old Katharine. In 1908, one of the Rayson sisters wrote to Katharine Burr, and said. “You are a mother much to be envied in having a little girl, so absolutely reliable, and at the same time, so lovable.” In choosing that particular school for her precocious daughter, Katharine Burr might not have known it, I mean, maybe she chose the school because it was so close to their apartment, who really knows, but she was setting the child up for success. Peggy: The Misses. Raysons’ school was for women with a high academic standard. So they were really educating future leaders. Katie Hafner: For one thing, the Rayson sisters based their teaching on the principle that to communicate clearly, one needs to think clearly. Decades later, an executive at GE said Katharine was the most ordered, logical presenter he'd ever met. And for another, the school had a strong math and science curriculum. Katharine wasn't expected just to do spelling and needlework, learn some manners, or whatever it is girls did in school in the early 1900s. Mathematics was her thing, and there was one teacher in particular. Peggy Schott: Amy Rayson, who had a master of Arts in mathematics and who later was a member of the New York Mathematical Society. Katie Hafner: My educated guess here is that it was Amy Rayson who nudged Katharine in the direction of math and science. In the fall of 1913, with her brother George already off at Yale, Katharine Blodgett entered Bryn Mawr, a women's college near Philadelphia, known for its high academic standards. She had won a full scholarship, having beaten out smart kids from three different states. She was all of 15 years old. More after the break. Katie Hafner: In 1913, 15-year-old Katharine Blodgett showed up at Bryn Mawr College. Bear in mind, this was a time when most universities barred women entirely, or relegated them to a second tier education. Bryn Mawr and a handful of other colleges offered women the opportunity not only to learn science, but teach it,practice it, even shape it. And they did that by creating a world that was peaceful, insular, and rigorously academic. Our producer, Natalia Sánchez Loayza, visited the campus and she described it to me. Katie Hafner: So is it? Is it tiny and bucolic? Natalia Sánchez Loayza: Definitely bucolic. It's one of those little towns where the boundaries between college and the rest of the town aren't very clear. Just a few blocks from the train stop, you already can see the college sign, for example, that reads Bryn Mawr College. Walking through Bryn Mawr feels like walking in a small, self-contained universe; it’s very peaceful. Katie Hafner: And do you think that it looks the way it looked when Katharine was there? Natalia Sánchez Loayza: Yes, there is a little bit of history in every corner. You're surrounded by these gothic stone buildings, and to me, I mean, it felt like I could have run into the next Katharine. And any girl there seemed to me, as a Katharine in the making. Katie Hafner: Instructors at these places fostered a kind of intellectual ferment. And when I say ferment, I mean it literally. A slow, catalytic process that produces something new. These colleges were places where ideas were bubbling up, where curiosity was alive, and where something important was quietly forming. At the same time, the instruction was deeply committed to the idea that women could and should be full participants in scientific inquiry. Here's Peggy Schott. Peggy Schott: The faculty at Bryn Mawr had a master's or a PhD in their subjects. The idea there was that the college wanted to give young women the same level and intensity and depth of education as young men were getting at that time. Katie Hafner: David Kaiser, a professor of physics and the history of science at MIT, agrees. David Kaiser: Names we kind of, rightly remember in the sciences, Vera Rubin helped us all understand the nature of dark matter, Henrietta Swan Levitt, who'd done extraordinary work in astronomy, Annie Jump Cannon, even earlier in the 1890s, we can stretch sort of before and after Blodgett’s own time, we can trace back to each of these schools. Katie Hafner: Perhaps one of the most important aspects of an education at one of these colleges, known collectively as the Seven Sisters, was a strong tradition of mentorship. Leslie Fields: If you were interested in, say, zoology then, then you had people who would really support you to continue that level of research. Katie Hafner: That's Leslie Fields, an archivist who works in special collections at Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts. Smith's a women's college and it's one of the seven sisters. Leslie Fields: There's this kind of support that's there and certainly no question that women are completely capable. So I think that's very powerful. And there are requirements in the curriculum for science classes of all kinds, and I'm, I'm saying science very generally, but there's, there were a lot of different options, and a lot of specific fields of study there with women who did very prominent levels of research in those fields that, that the students would've had as mentors. Katie Hafner: All of that is what 15-year-old Katharine Blodgett stepped straight into in 1913, and she embraced it with everything she had. Producer Sophia Levin reconstructed Katharine's four years at Bryn Mawr for me, starting from her very first day on campus. Sophia Levin: Katharine arrived on a Monday, she moved into her dorm, and then she had one more day to settle. And then when nine o'clock rolled around on Wednesday morning, it was time for Katharine’s first class. It was a math course that focused on conics, which is a type of geometry. And something that's interesting to think about is that while all the students at Bryn Mawr were women, many of the professors were men. Katie Hafner: Because… Sophia Levin: Well, at the time, women were still unlikely to have PhDs, so the people who were sometimes most technically qualified in their field were still men. Katie Hafner: And there was this one professor, who was one of her mentors, his name was… Sophia Levin: Professor James Barnes. Katie Hafner: James Barnes,, and he probably saw a pretty special talent. Sophia Levin: Yeah, he was definitely one of her biggest mentors, if not her biggest mentor at Bryn Mawr, as well as one of her biggest advocates. Katie Hafner: We know that she was getting a, a very rigorous science education, and that it kept her very busy. But now we have to move on to the extracurricular Katharine. Katie Hafner: Everywhere you turned, there she was? Sophia Levin: There was Katharine in every corner of the college. Katie Hafner: She not only took all these science courses, but did she manage the science club? Sophia Levin: Yeah. But I know that you are looking forward to the rundowns. So, Katie, are you ready for the full list? Katie Hafner: Yes, I am ready. Sophia Levin: Okay. So she was the manager of her class’s track team, all four years of college. She played water polo her sophomore year and then became the team's manager as a junior. She was appointed to be the assistant business manager of Bryn Mawr's newspaper. Katie Hafner: Oh wow. Sophia Levin: She was treasurer of her class's Senior Yearbook. She was one of 11 students to participate in the college's chess tournament. Katie Hafner: Wait, chess, did you say chess? So she was a chess player? Sophia Levin: I mean, she played in the tournament, so I would say so, yes. Katie Hafner: We have no idea how she did? Sophia Levin: Yeah, we don't, and the college news reported that Katharin co-wrote the student's favorite song, a reprisal of “As mother was chasing her boy around the room.” Katie Hafner: That was like a popular song back then? Sophia Levin: I suppose so. Katie Hafner: Well, I couldn't resist. If Katharine wrote new lyrics to a song, I wanted to hear it. So I asked singer Ana Ana Tuirán to perform a cover. Here's the last stanza. Ana Tuirán: So we're no better off than we were here before. And we’ll have to learn more of this stuff we abhor. With word lists and tutors and bills by the score, it’s a bore we are sore, and we won’t sing no more. Katie Hafner: She had a great sense of humor. Sophia Levin: Yeah, definitely. Katie Hafner: What an amazingly well-rounded and energetic young woman she was. She contained multitudes all wrapped up in one person. Katie Hafner: Speaking of multitudes, among the things we found in the course of reporting, this season was a small, thick, very, very old leather-bound notebook. When I picked it up, it actually started to fall apart in my hands. It was Katharine’s Bible study journal from 1917, her senior year at Bryn Mawr. Pages and pages filled with Katharine’s small, neat handwriting. She's quoting major theologians, parsing the historical Jesus, wrestling with miracles, et cetera. But what was most interesting to us was how she thought about the role of science in the life of a religious person. I scanned some of the pages and sent them to the Reverend Cathy George, an Episcopal priest who has spent 40 years in ministry. Reverend George told me she was astounded by what she read. She said, these aren't the scribbles of a pious teenager, they're the reflections of a deeply mature mind. I asked Reverend George if she thought Katharine’s science was at odds with her deep religious beliefs, and she said, “No. Not at all.” Reverend Cathy George: Somehow, it's not a conflict for her. She's talking about miracles of the spirit, and she goes on to talk about miracles of natural phenomena. It's just, for a scientist to be as deeply engaged as she is in being a Christian. To say you can't explain it all, is super interesting. It's just remarkable, especially in that era, that she had that capacity to engage with Christianity and not give up her science. Katie Hafner: This is all the more remarkable because she's just turning 18, and although Katharine didn't believe science could explain everything, she was certainly determined to see how much it could explain. Katharine was a seeker in the broadest sense. She was more than what you usually associate with the word scientist, someone with a fundamental curiosity to know how and why phenomena occur. As we would come to understand, Katharine Blodgett was also a scientist seeking to explain her own self, and that self was a complicated one. And so, this brilliant young polymath, who had excelled at practically everything she turned her hand to, decided there was only one thing she wanted after graduation, a life in science. Over the Christmas break of her senior year at Bryn Mawr, Katharine went job prospecting. She didn't cast a wide net. In fact, she had only one employer in mind: The General Electric Research Lab in Schenectady, New York, about 30 minutes northwest of Albany, one of the leading industrial research labs in the country. As it happened, her father had once worked there, and she must have written one hell of a cover letter because she got a meeting with the lab's director, Willis Whitney, and with a research scientist named Irving Langmuir, at age 35, already a star. It was America's Got Talent Physics Edition. No flashing lights or clapping and hooting and hollering audience, just a brilliant 18-year-old aspiring physicist, wowing two senior scientists with her dazzling rendition of “Let's talk about thermodynamics.” Langmuir and Whitney were so impressed that they gave her a unanimous yes on the spot. So as far as we can tell, there she was with nothing but a lifetime of encouragement. Absolutely nobody saying, “A woman can't do this.” But their yes, came with a condition. The GE scientists told her to pursue an advanced degree, and then she could come work there. And so she did. In the fall of 1917, she entered the University of Chicago's master's program in physics. What did Katharine research? It was very much driven by the necessity of those years. It was three years into World War I. Hundreds of thousands of soldiers were being exposed to chemical warfare in Europe. David Kaiser: World War I was, was dubbed the Chemist's War, for all kinds of applications including, chemical weapons, but also things like gas masks to protect against chemical weapons. Katie Hafner: That's David Kaiser, the science historian. David Kaiser: So all kinds of properties about stuff in the air, gases that could be quite harmful. And how do you protect from them? Huge, huge importance. Katie Hafner: And one of the most important ways to protect soldiers from dangerous gases—the gas mask. These masks relied on a canister filled with activated charcoal, which works by a process called adsorption, in which molecules stick to a surface rather than sinking into it. Sinking into something, absorption, is the word we're more familiar with. At Chicago, Katharine investigated how a gas mask filter actually worked when confronted with the complex chemical cloud of a battlefield. It was already known that charcoal could filter out toxins, trapping those toxic gas molecules on the surface of the charcoal. Katharine’s research on harmless oxygen and nitrogen, the main components of air, paved the way for two vital advances for filter design. First, when a mixture of gases hits the charcoal, they don't get trapped independently. Instead, the gases compete with each other, with the presence of one gas actually hindering the adsorption, or trapping, of the others. This competition principle was crucial for engineers building canisters that had to simultaneously filter toxic gases mixed with normal air. Second, Katharine discovered that the charcoal was more effective if the gas was introduced in smaller successive portions rather than all at once. Her study provided precise scientific rules for how air and poison interacted inside the filter, helping to improve gas mask technology. So after Katharine’s stellar stint in Chicago, it wasn't surprising that, as promised, the GE lab came through with its job offer. There was just one lingering point of negotiation. On July 16th, 1918, Katharine wrote to lab director Willis Whitney, telling him she planned to report for work, oh, sometime in the fall. But he was impatient. He wrote back to her right away. We asked Benjy, that's my stepson. He has a great voice to read it for us. Willis Whitney: Dear Miss Blodgett, can't you come now? Of course, we should be glad to have you join us in the fall, but gladder, if you come soon. I think you would be worth at first about $125 a month. Is this a bad guess? Katie Hafner: How's that for being made to feel like you're wanted? Sophia and I were talking about all of this, and she brought up something I hadn't thought of: Katharine’s mother. The two were as close as close can be for reasons born largely of tragedy. Here's Sophia. Sophia Levin: I really wonder what Katharine’s mom said when she decided to visit Schenectady. I wonder if Katharine even told her about the trip before she went, and if she did, did her mom encourage it, or was she more resistant? Katie Hafner: And that was absolutely something to ponder. Schenectady, New York, was a fraught place. Not as much for Katharine, who left as a newborn, but for her mother, Katharine Burr. Next time on Layers of Brilliance. Larry Hart: Now, I might as well get this over with, I wanted to talk to you a little bit more about your father. Bill Buell: I know it was 1897, but still you could get a sense, an eerie sense of something bad happening there. Even if it was 127 years ago. Maryanne Malecki: It was at night. Mr. And Mrs. Blodgett were already in bed. Mrs. Blodgett heard a noise, so she told her husband to get up. Julia Kirk Blackwelder: What I think of is the terror and horror that the wife experienced. It's a wonder she didn't lose the child. Katie Hafner: This has been Lost Women of Science. Our producers for this episode were Natalia Sánchez Loayza and Sophia Levin, with me as senior producer, writer, chief cook and bottle washer. Hannah Sammut was our associate producer. Elah Feder was our consulting editor. And David DeLuca Ferrini was our sound designer. Lisk Feng designed the art. Elizabeth Younan is our composer. Thanks to Deborah Unger, our senior managing producer, program manager Eowyn Burtner, my co-executive producer Amy Scharf, and marketing director Lily Whear. We got help along the way from Gabriella Baratier, Benjy Wachter, Eva McCullough, Nadia Knoblauch, Theresa Cullen, and Issa Block Kwong. A super special thanks to Peggy Schott, George Wise, Ellen Lyon, Cyrus Mody, David Kaiser at the Schenectady County Historical Society, Josh Levy at the Library of Congress, Ben Gross at the Harry Ransom Center at UT Austin, and Chris Hunter at the Museum of Innovation and Science in Schenectady. And we're grateful to Deborah, Jonathan, and Marijke Alkema for helping us tell the story of their great Aunt Katharine. We're distributed by PRX and our publishing partner is Scientific American. Our funding comes in part from the Alfred P Sloan Foundation and the Susan Wojcicki Foundation. Please visit us at lostwomenofscience.org, and don't forget to click on that all important, ever present donate button. I'm Katie Hafner. See you next week. Senior Producer and Host Katie Hafner Producers Natalia Sánchez Loayza Sophia Levin Associate Producer Hannah Sammut Guests Peggy Schott Peggy Schott is a retired chemist from Northwestern University and has written about Katharine Burr Blodgett and her achievements. Josh Levy Josh Levy is a historian of science and technology at the Manuscript Division of the Library of Congress. Eric Furst Eric Furst is the William H. Severns Jr. Distinguished Chair of Chemical Engineering at the University of Delaware. David Kaiser David Kaiser is a professor of physics and the history of science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Leslie Fields Leslie Fields is an archivist and Head of Smith College Special Collections Public Services in Northampton, Massachusetts. Reverend Cathy George The Rev. Dr. Cathy H. George is a former Yale Associate Dean and priest who has served diverse settings ranging from suburban parishes to urban missions and prisons. Further Reading American Women of Science. Edna Yost. Frederick A. Stokes, 1943 The Old GE 1886-1986. George Wise. Schenectady County Historical Society, 2024 Corporate Research Laboratories and the History of Innovation. David Pithan. Taylor & Francis, 2023
