=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ashraf Abbasi - Wikipedia]
Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. [1] She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ashraf_Abbasi

[From The Past Pages Of Dawn: 1973: Fifty Years Ago: Woman Deputy Speaker]
ISLAMABAD: Dr Mrs Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi was elected today [Aug 11] the [first] Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan under the Permanent Constitution. Mrs. Ashraf Abbasi, who was the ...
URL: https://www.dawn.com/news/1769654

[First female deputy speaker in Pakistan? - PakMcqs]
A. Begum Rana Liaquat Ali Khan B. Begum Ashraf Abbasi C. Noor Jehan Panezai D. None of them Ashraf Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی‎; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي‎) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. She served as a Dupty Speaker Two times from 11 August 1973 - 10 January 1977 and from 3 December 1988 - 6 August 1990.
URL: https://pakmcqs.com/pak-study-mcqs/first-female-deputy-speaker-pakistan

[A woman of work not words | Dialogue | thenews.com.pk]
Sep 7, 2014 · In 1977, she was elected as MPA and made a provincial minister with a portfolio of Local Bodies. She served as first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly twice in 1973-1977 and 1988-1990.
URL: https://www.thenews.com.pk/tns/detail/557016-begum-ashraf-abbas-woman-of-work-not-words

[Transition: Pakistan's first female deputy speaker dies]
Aug 4, 2014 · The 89-year-old politician, who played a dominant role in politics for decades, served as the National Assembly’s first deputy speaker and a close aide to former prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
URL: https://tribune.com.pk/story/744003/transition-pakistans-first-female-deputy-speaker-dies


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ashraf Abbasi - Wikipedia] ---
Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi (Urdu: اشرف عباسی; Sindhi: اشرف عباسي) was a Pakistani politician and the first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan. She was a close supporter of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and its leaders Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto. She was also a member of the West Pakistan Assembly from 1962 until 1965. She joined the PPP and won from her constituency in 1970.




--- [From The Past Pages Of Dawn: 1973: Fifty Years Ago: Woman Deputy Speaker] ---
ISLAMABAD: Dr Mrs Ashraf Khatoon Abbasi was elected today [Aug 11] the [first] Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly of Pakistan under the Permanent Constitution. Mrs. Ashraf Abbasi, who was the PPP nominee … secured 98 votes against her rival candidate, Mrs. Jennifer Jehanzeb Musa, who secured 26 votes. Mrs. Jennifer Musa was the Opposition nominee. A large number of members (21) did not take part in the voting. One of the voters cast a blank ballot paper. After Mrs Ashraf Abbasi was declared successful by the chair, she straightaway went to Mrs. Jennifer and both the ladies embraced amidst thumping of benches from both sides of the House. Mrs. Ashraf Abbasi then took the oath of office while standing on the dais. [Meanwhile, as reported by news agencies from Islamabad,] Khan Abdul Wali Khan, leader of the Opposition in the National Assembly today [Aug 11] blamed the Government for defections from certain political parties and charged that all this was happening according to a plan. In a statement today, he said that the Government wanted to eliminate or at least neutralise all the political parties in the country starting with the legislatures and then extending to wider fields. Published in Dawn, August 12th, 2023


--- [First female deputy speaker in Pakistan? - PakMcqs] ---
No content


--- [A woman of work not words | Dialogue | thenews.com.pk] ---
First female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, Begum Ashraf Abbasi lived and died for the poor Begum Dr Ashraf Abbasi, a veteran politician, social worker, philanthropist and former Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly, died in village Waleed, Larkana, after a protracted illness on August 4, 2014. She was 91 and left behind three sons -- former MPA Haji Munawwar Ali Abbasi, former Senator Dr Safdar Abbasi and Akhtar Abbasi. She was mother-in-law of Naheed Khan, former political secretary to late Benazir Bhutto. Dr Abbasi was sympathetic to poor people -- and that is why she was lovingly called "Ammi Doctor". She was a medical doctor and her doors remained opened 24/7 for her people. Begum Abbasi was born in 1925 in Larkana. Her father Hakeem Muhammad Saeed Khan Abbasi was a renowned hakeem and philanthropist. She was a silent worker who believed in work not words. She had established a social organisation "Mothers’ Trust" to bring back tolerance and peace in society. On the advice of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Chairman of Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), Begum Abbasi entered politics and was elected as a member of assembly for the first time in 1962 and 1965. She was elected MNA in 1970 from NA 165. She was also member of Constitutional Committee, which prepared the draft of 1973 Constitution. In 1977, she was elected as MPA and made a provincial minister with a portfolio of Local Bodies. She served as first female Deputy Speaker of the National Assembly twice in 1973-1977 and 1988-1990. She also took an active part in the Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD) and remained in Sukkur jail for 14 months. She was house-arrested four times in Karachi and Waleed (Larkana) due to her struggle against the martial law of General Ziaul Haq. Dr Ashraf Abbasi was severly beaten up and injured along with Begum Nusrat Bhutto at Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore. Haji Munawwar Abbasi, the elder son of Dr Ashraf Abbasi, remained a diehard worker of the PPP. He also remained a local leader of Sindh People’s Student Organisation (SPSF), the student wing of the PPP. Later, he was elected as a member of Sindh Assembly twice. He also remained a provincial minister. Her younger son Safdar Abbasi was a member of the Senate of Pakistan. He is husband of Naheed Khan, veteran politician and political secretary of Benazir Bhutto. After assassination of Benazir Bhutto on December 27, 2007, the family parted ways with the party’s new leadership led by Asif Ali Zardari. No PPP leader or worker participated in her burial. Dr Ashraf Abbasi got primary education from Larkana. She secured her secondary education from DJ College Karachi in 1940 and then studied at Lady Harding Medical College in Delhi. Later, she got admission to Dow Medical College Karachi. After completing her MBBS, she started her clinic in Larkana. She was mother of two children when she got her medical degree. In her student life at Dow Medical College, she was elected to the students’ union in 1952. She also served at Civil Hospital Larkana. Dr Ashraf Abbasi also contributed a lot to the promotion of education. She remained chairperson of SZABIST of Larkana campus and member of the Syndicate of Allama Iqbal Open University Islamabad and University of Sindh, Jamshoro. She authored her biography ‘Jaikeey Halan Haikhliyoon’ (Those who tread alone). She was also writing her memoirs of association with Z.A. Bhutto, Begum Nusrat Bhutto and Benazir Bhutto.


--- [Transition: Pakistan's first female deputy speaker dies] ---
The 89-year-old politician, who played a dominant role in politics for decades, served as the National Assembly’s first deputy speaker and a close aide to former prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. According to her family, Begum Abbasi had been in poor health and was battling several ailments over the last five years. She is survived by three sons, former senator Safdar Ali Abbasi, former MPA Haji Munawwar Ali Abbasi and Akhtar Abbasi. Commenting on his mother’s death, former senator Safdar Ali Abbasi said that she was suffering from multiple health problems and was frequently hospitalised for treatment. Begum Ashraf, who started her political career as a medical student at Dow Medical College in 1952, was elected a member of West Pakistan Assembly in 1962 and then in 1965. She was elected as Member of National Assembly in 1970 on Pakistan Peoples Party’s (PPP) ticket. Begum Ashraf served twice as the first female deputy speaker of the National Assembly from 1973 to 1977 and then again for a second stint from 1988 to 1990. Safdar Abbasi revealed that his mother actively participated in the political struggle after Bhutto was executed in 1979 and also took active part in the 1988 movement for the restoration of democracy. Published in The Express Tribune, August 4th,2014. COMMENTS Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ
