=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Steven Furtick - Wikipedia]
Larry Stevens Furtick Jr.[1] (born February 19, 1980), known professionally as Steven Furtick, is an American pastor, author, [2] singer, and composer of Elevation Worship.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_Furtick

[Steven Furtick - Patheos]
Known for: Being the founder and lead pastor of Elevation Church Fun Fact: In 2007, Furtick's church gave $40,000 to members in envelopes with $5, $20, even $1,000, with a message to spend it ...
URL: https://www.patheos.com/faith-figures-database/s/steven-furtick

[Steven Furtick Salary as a Pastor, Net Worth, Wife, Ethnicity]
Aug 27, 2022 · Steven Furtick’s Net Worth Furtick has an estimated net worth of $60 million. He has generated most of his income from his career as a Christian pastor, author, and songwriter. Steven Furtick Elevation Church Furtick is the founder and lead pastor of Elevation Church based in Charlotte. He came to Charlotte and launched Elevation Church after working as music director at Christ Covenant ...
URL: https://tidingsinfo.com/steven-furtick/

[Leaders Bio - Steven Furtick Biography, Age, Family, Kids, Education ...]
Steven made news in 2007 when his church distributed $40,000 in envelopes containing $5, $20, and even $1,000 to members, instructing them to spend money compassionately on others.
URL: https://www.newstimeworldwide.com/leaders-bio-steven-furtick-biography-age-family-kids-education-and-net-worth/

[Steven Furtick: It's About Numbers. Keep Giving ...]
Nov 5, 2013 — We apologize for the confusion. The people are being entertained by $9 million (for this year alone) in audiovisual equipment. Number 8,234 is ...
URL: https://thewartburgwatch.com/tww2/2013/11/05/steven-furtick-its-about-numbers-keep-giving-10342-maybe-youll-get-3d/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Steven Furtick - Wikipedia] ---
Larry Stevens Furtick Jr. (born February 19, 1980), known professionally as Steven Furtick, is an American pastor, author, singer, and composer of Elevation Worship. He is the founder and general overseer of Elevation Church, based in Charlotte, North Carolina.




--- [Steven Furtick - Patheos] ---
- Profession: Pastor, songwriter, author - Lived: February 19, 1980- Present (Modern Era) - Nationality: American - Known for: Being the founder and lead pastor of Elevation Church - Fun Fact: In 2007, Furtick's church gave $40,000 to members in envelopes with $5, $20, even $1,000, with a message to spend it kindly on others. - Fun Fact: Furtick first started out as a worship music team leader. Steven Furtick Jr. is a pastor, song writer and author, widely known for being the founder and lead pastor at Elevation Church. Furtick, who is originally from Moncks Comer South Carolina, felt his calling to a pastor a church in a major city at 16 years old. He has since launched 20 different locations of Elevation Church on the east coast and the Greater Toronto area. Furtick has helped grow his churches through online streaming, television, and the music of Elevation Worship. He received a B.A. in communications from North Greenville University and a Master of Divinity from the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. At 16 years old, Furtick felt his calling to a pastor a church in a major city, and has since launched 20 different locations of the famously known Elevation Church. Back to Search Results


--- [Steven Furtick Salary as a Pastor, Net Worth, Wife, Ethnicity] ---
Steven Furtick Salary at Elevation Church, Age, Net Worth, House, Wife Who is Steven Furtick? Steven Furtick is an American christian pastor, author and songwriter. He is the founder and lead pastor of Elevation Church based in Charlotte. He has pledged to donate 12% of Elevation Church’s giving to assist national and international missionary initiatives. Steven Furtick Age Furtick is 42 years old as of 2022. He was born on February 19, 1980 in Moncks Corner, South Carolina, United States. He celebrates his birthday on 19th of February every year. Related: Chad Veach (Pastor) Age, Family, Church, Wife, Justin Beiber, Net Worth Steven Furtick Height Furtick stands at an average height of 5 feet 9 inches. Steven Furtick Family Furtick was born to Faith Furtick and Larry Stevens Furtick. He was raised by his parents in Moncks Corner, South Carolina. However, not so much is known about his parents and early childhood. Steven Furtick Wife | Children Furtick is married to Holly Furtick. They held a church wedding June 3, 2002 in the presence of family and close friends. Steven and Holly are blessed with three lovely children together namely; Elijah Furtick, Graham Furtick and Abbey Furtick. Steven Furtick Education Furtick graduated from North Greenville University with a Bachelor of Arts in communications. He holds a Master of Divinity from Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. Steven Furtick Salary Furtick’s wages and benefits are not determined by an elected senior committee or his church. His salary is decided by a team of five ‘appointed’ members, all of whom are megachurch pastors. However, the Elevation church does not reveal what Furtick is paid based on the church’s earnings. Steven Furtick Net Worth Furtick has an estimated net worth of $60 million. He has generated most of his income from his career as a christian pastor, author and songwriter. Related: Pastor Russell Evans, Net Worth, Age, Wife, Children, Parents, Church Steven Furtick Elevation Church Furtick is the founder and lead pastor of Elevation Church based in Charlotte. He came to Charlotte and launched Elevation Church after working as music director at Christ Covenant Church in Shelby, North Carolina. On February 5, 2006, the church held its first service. As a songwriter, he helped establish Elevation Worship in 2007, and the group has subsequently been nominated for GMA Dove and Grammy Awards, with their album Old Church Basement receiving a Grammy. He made headlines in 2007 when his church distributed $40,000 in envelopes containing $5, $20, and even $1,000 to congregants, urging them to spend the money generously on others. Furtick launched the M1 Initiative, an evangelism program at Elevation Church, in 2012 in response to a need for sponsorship for 1,000 students in nearby schools. Steven Furtick House Furtick built a $1.7 million mansion and informed his congregation that it was a gift from God during Sunday service. He makes no apologies for his luxurious new 16,000-square-foot, seven-and-a-half-bathroom home near Weddington, which he built on 19 acres. He spent the opening half of his sermon discussing the scandal surrounding its building and appealing to his congregants for any “inconvenient chats” they might have had about it. Related: Pastor David Taylor Church, Wife, Net Worth, Family, Joshua Media Ministries International (JMMI) Steven Furtick Socials What does Elevation Church believe? The Elevation Church believes that Worship expands their hearts to recognize God’s presence everywhere. Worship allows them to express deep thanks for God’s faithfulness and work in their lives. They exist to bring people who are estranged from God to life in Christ ministry revolving around Jesus. What ethnicity is Steven Furtick? Furtick is from a white ethnic background. Related: Greg Locke Pastor, Church, Net Worth, Wife, Age, Kids, Parents


--- [Leaders Bio - Steven Furtick Biography, Age, Family, Kids, Education ...] ---
In This Biography Steven Furtick Biography, Age, Family, Kids, Education, and Net Worth. Who Is Steven Furtick? Steven Furtick Jr. is an American songwriter of Elevation Worship and Baptist evangelical Christian pastor. In addition, he is the founder and senior pastor of Elevation Church, based in Charlotte. He began Elevation Church after he relocated to Charlotte. Prior to his relocation, he was working as a music director at Christ Covenant Church in Shelby. The church began its service on February 5, 2006. As a songwriter, he assisted in the formation of the music ensemble Elevation Worship in 2007. Steven made news in 2007 when his church distributed $40,000 in envelopes containing $5, $20, and even $1,000 to members, instructing them to spend money compassionately on others. He has been speaking at events all over the world. He spoke at the 2011 Global Leadership Summit hosted by Bill Hybels, the C3 Conference in 2012 hosted by Ed Young Jr.In addition he also spoke at the Hillsong Conference 2012hosted by Brian Houston, the Presence Conference in 2012 and 2013 consecutively hosted by Phil Pringle. Furthermore, Furtick also appeared in James MacDonald’s The Elephant Room 1 and The Elephant Room 2. In 2016, he was named to Oprah’s SuperSoul100 list of visionaries and influential people. In 2012, he responded to a need for 1,000 mentors for students in area schools. Moreover, he went ahead and launched an outreach program at Elevation Church called the M1 Initiative. Steven stated that they have always wanted to be a blessing to the city and support leaders with a volunteer force they can always count on. Over 1,600, members responded and committed to mentoring a child for the 2012 and 2013 school years. How Old Is Steven Furtick? He was born on February 19, 1980, in Moncks Corner, South Carolina, United States. He is 41 years old as of 2021. Furtick shares his birthday with other notable people such as Arielle Kebbel, Bellamy Young, Benicio Del Toro, David Mazouz, Haylie Duff, Howard Stringer, Jeff Daniels, Jon Fishman, Millie Bobby Brown, Nikola Jokić, Prince Andrew, Duke of York, Camille Kostek, Seal, Shivaji, among others. Steven Furtick Family Who are His Parents? He was born and raised in Moncks Corne, South Carolina, to Faith Furtick and Larry Stevens. Does He Have Siblings? Furtick’s secretive nature has shown up in his personal life. He has managed to keep his family background very private. In case there is news regarding his parents and siblings, we shall update it here as soon as possible. Steven Furtick Education He attended Berkeley High School. After that, he enrolled at North Greenville University where he graduated with a Bachelor of Art. He then went ahead to achieve his Master of Divinity from the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. Steven Furtick Wife He is married to Holly Furtick, the two lovebirds tied the knot in 2002. Currently, they live in Waxhaw, North Carolina, a suburb of Charlotte. Steven Furtick Kids Together with his wife have three kids, Elijah, Graham, and Abbey. Steven Furtick Height Adding up to his well-built body is a height of 1.75 m. Steven Furtick’s Net Worth As of 2021, his net worth is estimated to be around $ 55 million. Steven Furtick Public Image Steven is a New York Times best-selling author. Moreover, Steven has been named a one-of-a-kind leader, due to his good deeds. He has gone further and donated mattresses, clothes, and furniture to families in need. However, in 2013, he turned down a question about his salary, his tax-free housing allowance, and the amount of money he makes from books and speaking fees. In addition, he refused to answer how the church is governed. Elevation has indicated that Furtick is kind to the church with the money he makes from publishing books. He arranges for the church to buy his books directly from the publisher, allowing Elevation to get the author’s discount and keep the proceeds. Furthermore, they have also cited that the publisher pays the church to produce marketing materials to promote Furtick’s books. Moreover, his salary is established by a Board of Overseers made up of other megachurch pastors, who vote on it based on a pay study completed by an outside business, and Furtick does not vote on his own income, according to Elevation. However, in his response to the news report, before he gave his sermon on the weekend of October 27, 2013, Steven apologized to his congregants directly.


--- [Steven Furtick: It's About Numbers. Keep Giving ...] ---
No content
