=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History of 128 East 63rd Street - Society of Illustrators]
The Society of Illustrators is located at 128 East 63rd Street in a graceful, five-story townhouse on a quiet residential block on the Upper East Side. Originally a carriage house built in 1875 for William P. Read, a personal secretary for financier J.P. Morgan, it is near many of New York's famed cultural institutions, Central Park, and the glittering shops of Madison Avenue. As the ...
URL: https://societyillustrators.org/about/history-of-128-east-63rd-street/

[Big Apple Secrets: Society of Illustrators -a club, museum and a restaurant]
The society of Illustrators was founded on February 1, 1901 by nine artists and one businessman with the following credo: "The object of the Society shall be to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time." In August 1939, the Society purchased the building for approximately $33,000, which is nearly $500,000 in today's dollars.
URL: http://www.bigapplesecrets.com/2014/03/society-of-illustrators-club-museum-and.html

[Society of Illustrators - Wikipedia]
In 1939, those funds allowed the Society to acquire its present headquarters, at 128 East 63rd Street. Norman Rockwell's Dover Coach became the backdrop for the bar on the fourth floor, donated by Rockwell in honor of the Society's new building.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Society_of_Illustrators

[Society of Illustrators Facts for Kids]
In 1939, money from these shows helped the Society buy its current building. This building is at 128 East 63rd Street in New York City. Helping During World War II A 1943 poster by society member C.W. Beuttey for the Office of War Information. A 1945 poster by society member Harry Morse for the Office of War Information.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Society_of_Illustrators

[Society of Illustrators Purchased 128 East 63rd Street New York Ny 1939 ...]
Society of Illustrators Purchased 128 East 63rd Street New York Ny 1939 Dollars Approximately Price August 1939 Purchase Building Site:en.wikipedia.org
URL: https://www.etsy.com/market/society_of_illustrators_purchased_128_east_63rd_street_new_york_ny_1939_dollars_approximately_price_august_1939_purchase_building_site%3Aen.wikipedia.org


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History of 128 East 63rd Street - Society of Illustrators] ---
The Society of Illustrators is located at 128 East 63rd Street in a graceful, five-story townhouse on a quiet residential block on the Upper East Side. Originally a carriage house built in 1875 for William P. Read, a personal secretary for financier J.P. Morgan, it is near many of New York’s famed cultural institutions, Central Park, and the glittering shops of Madison Avenue. As the automobile superceded the horse and the smoky railroad trench that ran north from Grand Central Station was covered over to become Park Avenue, 128 was bought by two brothers who lived there from 1908 to 1939. They converted the building into a residence and the stable area became a squash court. In August 1939, the Society purchased the building for approximately $33,000, which is nearly $500,000 in today’s dollars. The funds had been realized by the sale in 1925 of the rights to the Illustrator Show skits to the Shubert Organization for their Broadway hit Artists and Models (see History of the Society). Leo “Sport” Ward, an architect with social connections, oversaw renovations to the building in exchange for living quarters. Period photos reveal his living room to be a congenial space for entertaining friends such as Gloria Swanson and Joseph P. Kennedy, among others. A very large goldfish pond occupied much of what is now the third floor terrace. Incredibly, the façade of the building from the street to the third floor was blue cobalt glass. The door, which would for years be painted red, was also blue. The membership considered opening a commercial restaurant on the ground floor to help defray expenses, but the plan was abandoned. In time the blue glass proved to be too expensive to maintain and was covered over. In 1951, renovations to the third floor were complete, creating a lounge for the membership and a library in what is now the bar. The bar, graced by Norman Rockwell’s Dover Coach, was on the fourth floor where the library is now. In the early 1960s the lounge was reconfigured into the dining room and bar; little has changed other than décor. The street-level gallery opened in the 1950s and in 1968 its first renovations had begun. At the time, former Society president Howard Munce had arranged to rent the Society as a location for the film, Loving, a film about an illustrator that starred George Segal and Eva Marie Saint. According to former Executive Director, Arpi Ermoyan, “in order to meet a filming deadline, Columbia Pictures jumped in and helped finish the renovation job at break-neck speed and had a tree planted at curbside outside the Society’s front door.” (The tree was lost to the MTA’s ax with the construction of the cross-town subway in the late 1970s). Spearheaded by a campaign in 1981 by Society president John Witt to create the Museum of American Illustration at the Society of Illustrators, the lower level was converted into a second gallery. Funds had been raised by the membership and from a significant grant from the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency secured through the efforts of former president John Moodie. The galleries, open to the general public, greatly increased the space for year-round exhibitions, and a bookstore in the lower gallery offered posters and publications by the Society and others. Twenty years later, with the support of the membership and president Judy Francis Zankel, the galleries were remodeled in anticipation of the Society’s centennial year and Founders’ Day on February 1, 2001. The red door, a remnant of which now hangs at the bar, was replaced by glass to more fully welcome the public. Today, the building hosts not only many Society membership activities, but also lectures, drawing opportunities for professionals and students, art competitions, publications and gifts, beautiful and informative exhibitions, and more, all in service to the art of illustration as set out in 1901 by the first members of the Society of Illustrators in their Mission Statement.


--- [Big Apple Secrets: Society of Illustrators -a club, museum and a restaurant] ---
For those of you who are looking for a hidden gem in New York City, the Society of Illustrators is certainly one of them. It is located at 128 East 63rd Street in a graceful, five-story townhouse on a quiet residential block on the Upper East Side. The is a gift shop in the lobby and a small two-floor exhibition space. Admission is free for all visitors on Tuesdays from 5-8pm. Every Tuesday and Thursday there is a Sketch night from 6:30 - 9:30pm, with nude , partially clothes or fully costumed models and live music. The price is $15 and $7 for students/seniors. There's an original Norman Rockwell above the bar on the second floor, and a dining room. If you are not the member of the society you can buy a Museum Experience Package with Lunch that includes the full buffet, coffee, dessert and a glass of wine. ($30 per person , not including admission). The dining room is open for lunch Tuesday-Friday from 12:00pm to 2:30pm. From spring to early fall, the terrace provides a rare opportunity for dining al fresco in the heart of the city. The Permanent Collection has of nearly 2,000 works by many of the greatest names in American illustration. 128 East 63rd was originally a carriage house built in 1875 for William P. Read, a personal secretary for financier J.P. Morgan. In the beginning of 20th century two brothers bought the house. They converted the building into a residence and the stable area became a squash court. The society of Illustrators was founded on February 1, 1901 by nine artists and one businessman with the following credo: “The object of the Society shall be to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time.” In August 1939, the Society purchased the building for approximately $33,000, which is nearly $500,000 in today’s dollars.


--- [Society of Illustrators - Wikipedia] ---
The Society of Illustrators (SoI) is a professional society based in New York City. It was founded in 1901 to promote the art of illustration and, since 1959, has held an annual exhibition.
Since absorbing the Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art (MoCCA) in 2012, the Society has also promoted the art of comics. In addition to its holding exhibitions in its own Museum of American Illustration, the Society holds the annual MoCCA Festival, an independent comics showcase.


--- [Society of Illustrators Facts for Kids] ---
Society of Illustrators facts for kids | The society's headquarters in New York City since 1939 | | | Formation | February 1, 1901 | |---|---| | Founders | Henry S. Fleming, Otto Henry Bacher, Frank Vincent DuMond, Henry Hutt, Albert Wenzell, Albert Sterner, Benjamin West Clinedinst, F. C. Yohn, Louis Loeb, and Reginald Birch | | Purpose | Encourage high ideals through exhibitions, lectures, education, and by fostering a sense of community and open discussion. Its mission is to promote the art and appreciation of illustration and comics, as well as their history. | | Headquarters | 128 E. 63rd Street New York City, U.S. | | Fields | Illustration and Comics | | Executive Director | Arabelle Liepold | | Subsidiaries | Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art | The Society of Illustrators (SoI) is a special group for artists in New York City. It started in 1901 to support the art of illustration. Since 1959, the Society has held a big art show every year. In 2012, the Society also began promoting comics when it joined with the Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art (MoCCA). Besides its own Museum of American Illustration, the Society hosts the yearly MoCCA Festival. This festival is a showcase for independent comics. Contents History of the Society How the Society Started The Society of Illustrators began on February 1, 1901. It was started by nine artists and one businessman. The businessman, Henry S. Fleming, helped with legal advice. He also served as the Society's Secretary and Treasurer for many years. The nine artists who helped found the Society were Otto Henry Bacher, Frank Vincent DuMond, Henry Hutt, Albert Wenzell, Albert Sterner, Benjamin West Clinedinst, F. C. Yohn, Louis Loeb, and Reginald Birch. Their main goal was "to promote generally the art of illustration and to hold exhibitions from time to time." At first, women could only be "Associate Members" starting in 1903. These included Elizabeth Shippen Green and Florence Scovel Shinn. However, women could not become full members until 1922. Helping During World War I During World War I, Society members helped the country. With Charles Dana Gibson as president, they created many posters. One famous poster was James M. Flagg's Uncle Sam recruiting poster. They also made posters to encourage people to buy War Bonds. Taking photos was hard during the war. So, eight Society members became Captains in the Engineers. They were sent to France to sketch the war scenes. After the war, the Society even ran a school for soldiers who were injured. Between the World Wars In 1920, the Society became an official organization. In 1922, women were finally allowed to become full members. A member named Norman Mills Price wrote down the Society's early history in 1927 and 1939. His notes are kept in the Society's archives. In the 1920s and 1930s, the Society put on "Illustrator's Shows." These shows featured artists and their models as performers. Professional musicians and entertainers also joined in. In 1939, money from these shows helped the Society buy its current building. This building is at 128 East 63rd Street in New York City. Helping During World War II During World War II, the Society again helped with the war effort. They created many posters to support the country. Society members also visited hospitals to sketch wounded veterans. These drawings were sent to the families to cheer them up. The Illustrator's Jazz Band was formed to entertain the wounded. A band with the same name still plays at Society events today. After World War II In 1946, a special fund was started to help artists who needed support. In 1948, the Society helped create the first "Code of Fair Practice." This code helps artists and art directors work together fairly. It deals with issues like who owns the rights to artwork. Since 1954, the U.S. Air Force has sent Society members around the world. They document the Air Force's activities through art. This program continues today, with thousands of paintings created. In 1959, the Society held its first Annual Exhibition. This show featured 350 original artworks. It also led to the first Illustrators Annual book. In 1981, the Society opened its doors to the public. It created the Museum of American Illustration, which holds regular art shows. The 21st Century In 2001, the Society celebrated its 100th birthday. The U.S. Postal Service even released stamps featuring "Great American Illustrators." That year, the Society also held a special exhibition called Prevailing Human Spirit after the 9/11 events. In August 2012, the Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art (MoCCA) joined the Society. The Society now supports the MoCCA Festival. Anelle Miller was the executive director from 2007 to 2023. She improved the museum and started many public programs. Arabelle Liepold took over this role in June 2023. The Society of Illustrators publishes an annual book of illustrations. It also holds competitions for student scholarships and gives awards for excellent illustration work. The Society has worked with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation since 2001. It has also partnered with the New York City Board of Education since 1999. Leaders of the Society As of 2023, Leslie Cober is the president of the Society of Illustrators. Some important past presidents of the Society include: - Charles Dana Gibson (1904–1905, 1909–1920) - Albert Sterner (1907–1908) — he was a founding member - George Hand Wright (1926–1927) - Wallace Morgan (1929–1936) - Harold von Schmidt (1938–1941) - Albert Dorne (1947–1948) Museum of American Illustration and Art Shows The Museum of American Illustration opened at the Society in 1981. It was started under the leadership of John Witt, who was the Society's president. The Museum has a large collection of nearly 2500 artworks. These include pieces by famous artists like Norman Rockwell, Howard Pyle, N.C. Wyeth, and James Montgomery Flagg. These artworks are shown in different displays throughout the building. The Museum hosts the Annual Illustration show. It also has smaller exhibits about illustration and comics. In recent years, the main galleries have shown popular exhibitions, such as: - R. Crumb: Lines Drawn on Paper (2011) - Maurice Sendak: A Celebration of the Artist and his Work (2013) - The ZAP Show (2016) - Will Eisner: The Centennial Celebration (2017) - The Art of MARCH: A Civil Rights Masterpiece (2018) - Illustrating Batman: Eighty Years of Comics and Pop Culture (2019) The Society also has a gallery on the second floor just for MoCCA. This gallery often shows smaller exhibits of comic book art. Awards and Recognition The Society of Illustrators started its Hall of Fame in 1958. This award honors "distinguished achievement in the art of illustration." Norman Rockwell was the first person to receive this honor. Former Society presidents choose artists for their important contributions to illustration. Every year since 1958, new illustrators have been added to the Hall of Fame. In 2001, two more awards were added: the Dean Cornwell Recognition Award and the Arthur William Brown Achievement Award. In 1965, the Society created the Hamilton King Award. This award is given every year to one Society member. In 1981, the Society started the Student Scholarship Competition. This competition has been held every year since then. The highest award for a student is the Zankel Scholarship Award. It was created in 2006 to honor Arthur Zankel, who supported education.


--- [Society of Illustrators Purchased 128 East 63rd Street New York Ny 1939 ...] ---
No content
