=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Disappearance of Tara Calico - Wikipedia]
Tara Leigh Calico (born February 28, 1969) [1] is an American woman who disappeared near her home in Belen, New Mexico, on September 20, 1988. She is widely believed to have been kidnapped. In July 1989, a Polaroid photo of an unidentified young woman and boy, gagged and seemingly bound, was televised to the public after it was found in a convenience store parking lot in Port St. Joe, Florida ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disappearance_of_Tara_Calico

[Tara Calico mystery: Is the girl in the photo really her?]
Scotland Yard analysed the photo and concluded that the woman was Calico, but a second analysis by the Los Alamos National Laboratory disagreed. An FBI analysis of the photo was inconclusive.
URL: https://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/real-life/news-life/tara-calico-mystery-is-the-girl-in-the-photo-really-her/news-story/a6c2dd5ec120bf62a770d56befacd69f

[Real Story Behind Polaroid in Tara Calico Mystery - People.com]
Tara Calico Mystery: The True Story Behind Notorious Polaroid Showing a Girl and Boy Bound in a Van Calico vanished in 1988 and, less than a year later, a Polaroid of a girl that looked like her ...
URL: https://people.com/crime/tara-calico-polaroid-photo-true-story/

[Bombshell breakthrough in mystery of 'Polaroid girl' who vanished on ...]
THE mystery disappearance of a 19-year-old girl 35 years ago could finally be solved as detectives prepare to arrest the suspects, cops told The Sun. Tara Calico vanished on a bike ride in New Mexico on September 30, 1988 - and her disappearance was soon linked to a disturbing Polaroid showing a girl and a boy gagged in the back of a van.
URL: https://www.the-sun.com/news/8478116/mystery-tara-calico-polaroid-disappearance-new-evidence/

[Michael Henley | Unsolved Mysteries Wiki | Fandom]
They recognized him as the boy in the photo. Tara Calico 's parents recognized her as the girl in it. She had vanished from Belen, seventy-five miles from the Zuni Mountains, while on a bike ride on the morning of September 20, 1988. Factory analysis determined that the photo was recently taken.
URL: https://unsolvedmysteries.fandom.com/wiki/Michael_Henley


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Disappearance of Tara Calico - Wikipedia] ---
Tara Leigh Calico (born February 28, 1969) is an American woman who disappeared near her home in Belen, New Mexico, on September 20, 1988. She is widely believed to have been kidnapped. In July 1989, a Polaroid photo of an unidentified young woman and boy, gagged and seemingly bound, was televised to the public after it was found in a convenience store parking lot in Port St. Joe, Florida. Family friends thought the woman resembled Calico and contacted her mother, who then met with investigators and examined the Polaroid. She believed it was her daughter after taking "time, growth and lack of makeup" into consideration, and noted that a scar on the woman's leg was identical to one that Calico had. Scotland Yard analyzed the photo and concluded that the woman was Calico, but a second analysis by the Los Alamos National Laboratory disagreed. An FBI analysis of the photo was inconclusive.
Calico's case received extensive coverage on television programs such as A Current Affair, Unsolved Mysteries, and America's Most Wanted. It was also profiled on The Oprah Winfrey Show and 48 Hours.


--- [Tara Calico mystery: Is the girl in the photo really her?] ---
Tara Calico mystery: Is the girl in the photo really her? It’s a mystery that’s baffled detectives for 30 years and now they’re offering a reward for information about a girl that could be in this photo. It’s a photo that gave a family hope. It’s hope they’re still clinging to 31 years later after Tara Calico mysteriously disappeared. The 19-year-old had borrowed her mum’s neon pink Huffy bicycle to go for a ride on September 20, 1988, but never returned to her New Mexico home. The mysterious photo of two children bound with their mouths taped shut in the back of a van was discovered in a convenience store car park in Florida in August 1989 about a year after Tara’s disappearance and still has detectives stumped. When friends and family saw it they suggested it could be Tara, giving her mother Patty Doel renewed hope she was alive. The book in the photograph, My Sweet Audrina by VC Andrews, was Tara’s favourite, according to Ms Doel. The only lead police had was a windowless white van that was seen where the photo was found. Tara’s mum noted the scar on the leg of the girl in the photo was identical to her daughter’s. Scotland Yard analysed the photo and concluded that the woman was Calico, but a second analysis by the Los Alamos National Laboratory disagreed. An FBI analysis of the photo was inconclusive. As for the boy in the photo, his identity has never been revealed either. The family of Michael Henley initially believed it was him, but that theory was debunked when police found his remains in New Mexico where they believe he died after becoming lost. Michele Doel, Calico’s stepsister, said it didn’t make sense that the photo would be her but he still believed it was. “When people ask me, ‘Is that her?’ If I had to say yes or no definitively: Yes, that is her,” she told People magazine last year. “I still look at it and it looks exactly like her — exactly like her. But it doesn’t make sense.” Ms Doel died in 2006 of complications from a series of strokes. She and her husband kept a bedroom for Tara where they left Christmas and birthday gifts. The ongoing investigation took a toll on Ms Doel, who kept getting shown dismembered bodies by police to see if they were her daughter. “Mum really did not want to believe she was dead, period,” Tara’s older brother Chris told People. “And if a photographic evidence of a young woman alive — even though she’s in extremis — is something to latch on to.” Michele does her own detective work on the case, along with Tara’s high school friend Melinda Esquibel, who hosts the podcast Vanished: The Tara Calico Investigation. The FBI is offering a reward of up to $20,000 for information that leads to the whereabouts of Tara. “Tara had her entire future ahead of her when she vanished,” Special Agent in Charge James Langenberg of the Albuquerque FBI Division said this week. “Law enforcement has never given up the search for this young lady, checking out numerous tips and conducting countless interviews over the course of more than 30 years. “But it’s time for someone to come forward and help us finally bring Tara home.” Tara was last seen wearing a white T-shirt with ‘1st National Bank of Belen’ on it, white shorts with green stripes, white ankle socks, and white and turquoise Avia tennis shoes. She was also wearing a gold butterfly ring with a diamond insert, a gold amethyst ring, and half-inch gold hoop earrings. Tara left her home on Brugg Street in Belen to go on a ride at 9.30am and was last seen riding along Highway 47 in Valencia County about 11.45am. She rode the route daily.


--- [Real Story Behind Polaroid in Tara Calico Mystery - People.com] ---
Tara Calico Mystery: The True Story Behind Notorious Polaroid Showing a Girl and Boy Bound in a Van Calico vanished in 1988 and, less than a year later, a Polaroid of a girl that looked like her was found at a Florida convenience store By Adam Carlson Adam Carlson Adam Carlson is the senior editor for human interest at PEOPLE. People Editorial Guidelines Updated on July 23, 2023 06:46PM EDT Credit : Valencia County Sheriffs Office In July 1989, 10 months after his 19-year-old stepdaughter Tara Calico vanished near their home in New Mexico, a friend called John Doel with word of something strange: A photograph had surfaced in Florida showing a young woman and a boy who'd been bound and gagged — and the woman looked just like Calico. The image, a color Polaroid in good condition discovered by a woman in a convenience store parking lot, made national news. Both apparent victims faced the camera, their mouths taped and arms pressed together behind their backs as though tied up. It appeared they were in the back of a vehicle — perhaps a van — and seemed in obvious distress. Who were they? Were they really captives? Was the photo a clue to Calico's fate? The questions have lingered for decades, ever since Calico went missing on the morning of Sept. 20, 1988, during her regular bike ride in Valencia County. Calico's mom, Patty Doel, believed until her death that the photo showed her daughter. As the case remained unsolved into the age of internet-enabled amateur sleuthing, the picture gathered further notoriety under ominous headlines such as "A Teen Girl was Kidnapped, and the Only Evidence They Found of Her Being Alive was a Horrifying Polaroid." Authorities, however, were never sure the photo was connected to Calico's case. It was analyzed at least three different times — including by the FBI — who felt strongly that it likely wasn't Calico but could not say for certain at the time. Meanwhile, Scotland Yard in the U.K. declared it was her. The Valencia County Sheriff's Office, the lead investigating agency, did not actively pursue the image. Instead, they and the FBI began probing local suspects in the case amid longstanding theories that Calico was taken or attacked by people in her small community. These suspicions were supported by witness reports that she was followed on her final bike ride and had been receiving "threatening" notes on her vehicle. Still, her loved ones wondered. "When people ask me, 'Is that her?' If I had to say yes or no definitively: Yes, that is her," said Michele Doel, Calico's stepsister. However, Michele acknowledged, "Does it make sense? No. That's not the story that makes sense." A Polaroid Thrusts the Case Into the Spotlight Tara Calico. Courtesy Melinda Esquibel Valencia sheriff's officials first learned of the color Polaroid on July 28, 1989, when Calico's stepfather, John, called to report it. John said a friend of his had seen it on A Current Affair after the image surfaced in Port St. Joe on Florida's panhandle, some 1,500 miles away. Police reports show it was found a month earlier, on June 15, 1989. The twist made more headlines around the country and was covered by Oprah Winfrey and America's Most Wanted, according to Valencia Lt. Joseph Rowland, the lead investigator. The vehicle in the photo was identified as a van, and tips subsequently poured in about various vans, Rowland said. Answers were not as forthcoming, though. Calico's family quickly came forward, saying the girl resembled their missing daughter. Another New Mexico family felt the same about the young boy, expressing they believed it was their missing son, 9-year-old Michael Henley, according to Rowland. Michael reportedly disappeared in April 1988 while hunting with his father. Want to keep up with the latest crime coverage? Click here to get breaking crime news, ongoing trial coverage and details of intriguing unsolved cases in the True Crime Newsletter. "He looks scared, real scared, but he looks healthy, and I'm grateful for that," said Michael's mother, Marty Henley, soon after the Polaroid was found in '89, per The New York Times. However, Rowland confirmed Michael's remains were discovered about two years later. He had died of exposure. Further investigative scrutiny also called into question what the Polaroid truly depicted, added Rowland. For example, the young woman's hands appear to not be tied together tightly, and her shoulders do not seem stressed as they would if her bindings were severe. "There was no redness around the tape on the mouths of the children, which would indicate that the tape was not on their mouth for an extended period of time," Rowland explained. To this day, neither the boy nor the girl in the photo has ever been positively identified. A Mother’s Years of Hope and Grief Valencia County Sheriffs Office Patty died in 2006 of complications from a series of strokes after relocating to Florida with her husband, John. Her daughter was always on her mind, her friends and family said. She and John kept a bedroom for Calico, bringing her gifts there for passing Christmases and birthdays. Even near the end, Patty "would see a young girl on a bicycle and would point and write down 'Tara,' " her longtime friend Billie Payne recalled. "And [John would] tell her, 'No, that’s not Tara.' " Calico's older brother Chris said the stress of his sister's disappearance and its persistent irresolution significantly shortened his mother's life. "The police would send photos of every possibility, including photos of bodies, dismembered bodies, and every time mom got an envelope with the newest pictures, she had to look at them," he told PEOPLE. "She couldn't not, but it tore her up every time." For Patty, the Florida Polaroid was proof that her daughter — though she was suffering — had survived whatever she encountered on her bike ride in 1988. "Mom really did not want to believe she was dead, period," Chris said. "And [even] photographic evidence of a young woman alive — even though she's in extremis — is something to latch onto." Following Patty's death, Michele took the lead in their family in keeping a spotlight on the case. She does grassroots detective work alongside Calico's high school friend Melinda Esquibel, the host of the podcast Vanished: The Tara Calico Investigation. Michele remembered the moment when Patty first showed her the Polaroid all those years ago — and the goosebumps that broke out on her skin. Though she said she knows authorities believe they are looking in more fruitful directions than investigating the photo and realizes there are good reasons for this, she still questioned, "What if?" "I still look at it, and it looks exactly like her — exactly like her. But it doesn't make sense," Michele said at the time. "It really does not make sense." A Breakthrough in the Case FBI On June 6, 2023, Valencia County Sheriff's Office stated in a press release they had made "substantial progress" in the joint investigation with the FBI into Calico's disappearance, per Valencia County News-Bulletin. "Law enforcement believes they have identified the offenders associated with Tara Calico's disappearance," Rowland told The Sun on June 28. "We are seeking to charge and arrest the offenders. New evidence was found stemming from investigative work in October 2020 to the present." Rowland added, "The District Attorney's Office has assigned a team of prosecutors to review the investigation. This case has obvious challenges due to its age and circumstances. Legal experts are currently being briefed and caught up on 34 years of investigative work." Any suspect names and details about the evidence have remained sealed, and the detectives were still asking the public for any information. The FBI also confirmed that the girl in the mysterious Polaroid was not Calico. Esquibel referred to Calico's case as "a huge misjustice" and worked with her own team to investigate the disappearance. She told The Sun she hopes that "now the right people are working this case so justice can be served." If you have any information about Tara Calico's disappearance, contact the Valencia County Sheriff's Office at 505-866-2400 or the FBI at 1-800-CALL-FBI or online at tips.fbi.gov. Close Read more: Human Interest Real People Real People Tragedy


--- [Bombshell breakthrough in mystery of 'Polaroid girl' who vanished on ...] ---
THE mystery disappearance of a 19-year-old girl 35 years ago could finally be solved as detectives prepare to arrest the suspects, cops told The Sun. Tara Calico vanished on a bike ride in New Mexico on September 30, 1988 – and her disappearance was soon linked to a disturbing Polaroid showing a girl and a boy gagged in the back of a van. The sinister snap was discovered in a Florida car park in August 1989, sparking an investigation – and the girl was theorised by many to be Tara. After the harrowing picture was circulated, families came forward to claim they recognised the distressed-looking pair. The Calico family were certain the girl in the image was Tara, meaning she would have to be alive months after her disappearance. But law enforcement were divided over the photo – with different agencies turning up inconclusive results. For decades, the Polaroid was a source of both hope and heartache. Now nearly 35 years later, Valencia County Sheriff’s Office revealed there has been “substantial progress” made in the investigation. Detectives said they enlisted the help of the FBI – and now believe there is enough evidence to arrest and charges the suspects in the case. It marks a huge breakthrough in the decades-old mystery. Most read in The Sun Lieutenant Joseph Rowland, the agent on the case for the Valencia County Sheriff’s Office, told The Sun: “Law enforcement believes they have identified the offenders associated with Tara Calico’s disappearance. “We are seeking to charge and arrest the offenders. “New evidence was found stemming from investigative work in October 2020 to the present. “The District Attorney’s Office has assigned a team of prosecutors to review the investigation. “This case has obvious challenges due to its age and circumstances. “Legal experts are currently being briefed and caught up on 34 years of investigative work.” At a bombshell press conference earlier this month, it was revealed that the names and details on the “persons of interest” will remain sealed for now. Lieutenant Rowland said detectives will continue to ask the public for any information on Tara’s disappearance. Melinda Esquibel, Tara’s former classmate, has spent years investigating her disappearance – and described her case as “a huge misjustice”. “I believe that Tara’s case has been a huge misjustice within the Valencia County Sheriff’s Office and hope that now the right people are working this case so justice can be served,” she said. Melinda believes her friend was stalked by a group of local boys after rejecting one of the lads who had asked her out on a date. I feel like me and my team have solved the case Melinda Esquibel And she thinks the teen was killed on the same night she disappeared and buried just 20 miles from where she was killed – rather than being kidnapped by whoever was behind the Polaroid. Speaking to The Sun last year, Melinda said: “I know that the family believes it is or could be her, but the data I have gathered shows that it cannot be her. “None of the data I have leads to that girl being Tara.” Tara never returned after setting out on a bike ride near her home in the city of Belen, New Mexico. She set off on the 36-mile route at 9.30am – a route she rode most mornings, often with her mum, Patty Doel. But her mum had stopped cycling with her because she thought she was being stalked by a driver. Patty encouraged Tara to begin carrying mace to defend herself, but she rejected the idea. Tara was last seen riding along a highway at 11.45am – with witnesses claiming to have seen her being followed by a light-coloured Ford pickup truck. She had asked her mother to come and pick her up if she hadn’t returned by 12pm that fateful day because she had plans to play tennis with her boyfriend that afternoon. When she didn’t return, Patty went searching along the route and contacted the cops after failing to find her. The 19-year-old was never seen again with only fragments from her Sony Walkman and cassette tape found along the trail. Back in 2019, the FBI announced a £16,000 reward for information leading to Tara’s whereabouts. Melinda came up with the theory about Tara’s disapperance after interviewing hundreds of people and pulling together a case file containing a whopping 25,000 items. Melinda told The Sun: “I feel like me and my team have solved the case, but I am not the authorities and there is not much I can do about making arrests. “Therefore, I have to leave that up to them. I have no idea if anyone will ever make any arrests in this case.” From her years of detective work, she thinks the group of local boys knocked Tara off her bike before snatching her and killing her. And Melinda thinks Tara is buried just 20 miles away from where she was brutally murdered. My belief that this case is solvable comes from the large amount of people who have talked about it over the years Lieutenant Joseph Rowland “I have information that it was a possibility that this boy and his friends were going to grab her four days before the day she was actually taken on September 16, 1988,” she said. “This would mean it was premeditated and thought out.” Paying tribute to her much-loved classmate, Melinda said: “Tara had a bright light around her. She was fun, serious, smart, playful and kind. “That is how I remember her. She was an upperclassman and we met in the marching band. “She showed me kindness and I will never forget that. She showed me kindness when she didn’t have to.” Last year, Lieutenant Rowland told The Sun that he believes the case could be solved. But he said one of the challenges “is that there is very little physical evidence”. And Mr Rowland said the FBI confirmed it is not Tara in the picture. “A body has yet to be found. No DNA was recovered in the initial investigation. The investigation has been continuous for over thirty years now.” But he added: “My belief that this case is solvable comes from the large amount of people who have talked about it over the years. “Belen was a much smaller town in 1988 and almost everyone knew each other. I believe that the person or persons, responsible for her disappearance are local.”


--- [Michael Henley | Unsolved Mysteries Wiki | Fandom] ---
Real Name: Michael Paul Henley, Jr. Nicknames: No known nicknames Location: Zuni Mountains, New Mexico Date: April 21, 1988 Bio[] Occupation: None Date of Birth: circa 1979 Height: 4'6" Weight: 65 pounds Marital Status: Single Characteristics: Caucasian male with blonde hair, brown eyes, and a raspberry birth mark on his right eyelid. Case[] Details: On April 21, 1988, nine-year-old Michael Henley Jr. went on a camping trip with his father and a family friend in the Zuni Mountains of New Mexico. They had been at the campsite for less than twenty minutes when Michael disappeared. When they noticed that he was missing, they searched around the camp but found no trace of him. They figured that he had wandered off into the wilderness. His family, as well as the police and the National Guard, conducted a month-long search. They found no trace of him. A snowstorm hit the area around that time, making the search difficult. On June 15, 1989, this case took a bizarre turn. A woman in Port St. Joe, Florida, 1,200 miles from where he vanished, made a routine trip to her neighborhood convenience store. As she left her car to go inside, she noticed a white van in the next parking space. When she walked out of the store, she saw a Polaroid photo lying face-down where the van was. It showed a teenage girl and a young boy, apparently bound with their hands behind their backs. Their mouths were sealed with black tape. It appeared to have been taken inside a white van. The woman took it to the police. The national media ran hundreds of stories about the grim photo. Michael's parents saw one of the stories and got in touch with the Florida police. They recognized him as the boy in the photo. Tara Calico's parents recognized her as the girl in it. She had vanished from Belen, seventy-five miles from the Zuni Mountains, while on a bike ride on the morning of September 20, 1988. Factory analysis determined that the photo was recently taken. The FBI has not been able to determine if the children in the photo are Tara and Michael. However, a forensic artist compared pictures of them to the photo and was 85% sure that they were the ones depicted. Suspects: It is believed that Tara and Michael may have been abducted by the same person. Authorities are looking for the white cargo van that was parked at the Junior Food Store in Port St. Joe, Florida, on June 15, 1989. It had no windows and a sliding door at the side. Extra Notes: - This case first aired on the September 20, 1989 episode. - It was reaired on January 24, 1990, followed by a missing child roll call which included those of Leticia Hernandez, Jessica Gutierrez, David Borer, and Malakia Logan. - It was excluded from Amazon Prime episodes. Results: Solved. In June 1990, Michael's remains were found just a few miles from the campsite where he was last seen. They were identified through dental records. The cause of death was believed to be hypothermia and foul play was ruled out. This case is no longer believed to be related to Tara's; she remains missing. The children in the photograph have reportedly been identified, but their identities have not been released. Links: - Searchers flown to find missing boy - April 27, 1988 - Milan Boy Still Missing in Zunis - April 27, 1988 - Lost 9-year-old still remembered - May 3, 1988 - Mystery photo launches probe - July 31, 1989 - Photo may be that of missing youths - July 31, 1989 - Photo may be clue to missing youths - August 1, 1989 - Parents send police information on daughter - February 22, 1990 - Seeking help in New Mexico kidnappings - March 26, 1990 - Skeletal remains discovered - June 25, 1990 - Skeletal remains may be those of missing boy - June 25, 1990 - Remains may be those of missing nine-year-old - June 26, 1990 - Boy's Identity Confirmed - June 29, 1990 - TV Show to Feature 1988 Disappearance - April 13, 1993 - New Letters Stir 20-Year-Old Unsolved Mystery of Apparent Child Abduction Photos - August 29, 2009
