=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Swiss video artist Pipilotti Rist gets German art award]
Oct 25, 1999 · Swiss video artist Pipilotti Rist has won this year’s Wolfgang-Hahn arts prize, which is awarded by the Modern Arts Society of the Ludwig Museum in Cologne, Germany.
URL: https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/culture/swiss-video-artist-pipilotti-rist-gets-german-art-award/1370766

[Pipilotti Rist]
Hugo Boss Prize; 1999 – Wolfgang Hahn Prize; 2003 – Honorary Professorship from Berlin University of the Arts; 2006 – Guggenheim Museums Young ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipilotti_Rist

[Pipilotti Rist - Wikipedia]
1995 - Scholarship, German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) 1997 - Premio 2000, Biennale di Venezia 1998 - Nomination, Hugo Boss Prize 1999 - Wolfgang-Hahn-Preis 2001 - Art Prize, City of Zurich 2004 - 01 Award und Honorary Professorship, Universität der Künste, Berlin 2009 - Special Award, Seville European Film Festival 2009 - Joan Miró ...
URL: https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipilotti_Rist

[2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards: Souto de Moura - e-architect]
2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards Souto de Moura earchitect. Doig was nominated for the Turner Prize 1994 and received the Wolfgang Hahn Prize 2008. His paintings are known for their evocative blend of memory dreamlike imagery and painterly innovation.
URL: https://www.e-architect.com/awards/2025-praemium-imperiale-awards-winner

[Rist, Pipilotti | Südwest Galerie]
In 1997 her work was featured in the Venice Biennial, where she was awarded a Premio 2000 award for the video ‘Ever Is Over All’. Other awards include the Wolfgang Hahn Prize (1999), the Joan Miró Prize (2009) and the Cutting the Edge Award at the 27th Annual Miami International Film Festival (2010).
URL: https://www.suedwestgalerie.de/kunstlexikon/kuenstler/rist-pipilotti


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Swiss video artist Pipilotti Rist gets German art award] ---
Swiss video artist Pipilotti Rist gets German art award Swiss video artist Pipilotti Rist has won this year’s Wolfgang-Hahn arts prize, which is awarded by the Modern Arts Society of the Ludwig Museum in Cologne, Germany. Swiss video artist Pipilotti Rist has won this year’s Wolfgang-Hahn arts prize, which is awarded by the Modern Arts Society of the Ludwig Museum in Cologne, Germany. Cologne city authorities announced their choice Monday and said the award ceremony for the $11,000 prize will take place on November 10. The society described the Swiss video, film and performance artist as one of the “most innovative and refreshing proponents of contemporary art.” The development of video art in Switzerland is closely linked with Rist and her work has been on show at New York’s Guggenheim Museum and San Francisco’s Museum of Modern Art. “The work of Swiss artist Pipilotti Rist successfully extends the vocabulary of the music video genre into fine art by suspending the viewer’s reality through experimentation, lush colours and expressive, provocative images,” as one critic wrote about Rist’s exhibition in Santa Fe a year ago. She began her career in video by designing and building sets for rock bands. She later became involved with the all female rock band, Les Reines Prochaines (The Next Queens). “I don’t think of myself exclusively as an artist. I was originally interested in pop music…When I started making videos, the art world claimed me for itself,” she once said. Rist rejects documentary style and polished perfection in order to create surreal, subjective effects through new video technology. She employs rapid editing, super-saturated, computer-altered colours, and shifting camera angles. She says, “I see video as behind-glass paintings that move.” From staff and wire reports. In compliance with the JTI standards More: SWI swissinfo.ch certified by the Journalism Trust Initiative You can find an overview of ongoing debates with our journalists here . Please join us! If you want to start a conversation about a topic raised in this article or want to report factual errors, email us at english@swissinfo.ch.


--- [Pipilotti Rist] ---
Pipilotti Elisabeth Rist, birth name Elisabeth Charlotte Rist (born 21 June 1962 in Grabs) is a Swiss visual artist best known for creating experimental video art and installation art. Her work is often described as surreal, intimate, abstract art, having a preoccupation with the female body.
Rist's work is known for its multi-sensory qualities, with overlapping projected imagery that is highly saturated with color, paired with sound components that are part of a larger environment with spaces for viewers to rest or lounge. Rist's work often transforms the architecture or environment of a white cube gallery into a more tactile, auditory and visual experience.




--- [Pipilotti Rist - Wikipedia] ---
Elisabeth Charlotte Rist, detta Pipilotti (Grabs, 21 giugno 1962), è un'artista svizzera, attiva nel campo della videoarte.


--- [2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards: Souto de Moura - e-architect] ---
2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards Architecture Laureate, Eduardo Souto de Moura architect, Japan Art Association Award 2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards News 15 July 2025 Eduardo Souto de Moura, Portugal – wins in the Architecture category. Eduardo Souto de Moura at his office in Porto, Portugal, April 2025: photo : Shun Kambe © The Japan Art Association The National Youth Theatre of Great Britain receives £25,000 Grant for Young Artists. £400,000 award is given by the Japan Art Association under the honorary patronage of His Imperial Highness Prince Hitachi, younger brother to the Emperor Emeritus of Japan. Tuesday 15th July 2025 – This morning the Japan Art Association and Lord Patten of Barnes, Praemium Imperiale’s International Advisor in the UK, have announced the recipients of the 2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards: Sculpture: Marina ABRAMOVIĆ (79, Serbia) Painting: Peter DOIG (66, United Kingdom) Theatre/Film: Anne Teresa DE KEERSMAEKER (65, Belgium) Music: András SCHIFF (71, Hungary/United Kingdom) Architecture: Eduardo SOUTO DE MOURA (72, Portugal) Estádio Municipal de Braga by Eduardo Souto de Moura in Portugal: photo : Shun Kambe © The Japan Art Association Each Laureate receives an honorarium of 15 million Yen (c. £77,000). The awards are given by the Japan Art Association under the honorary patronage of His Imperial Highness Prince Hitachi, young brother to the Emperor Emeritus of Japan. Lord Patten has additionally chosen The National Youth Theatre of Great Britain as the recipient of the 5 million Yen (c. £25,000) Grant for Young Artists. Casa da Música Station, Porto design by Eduardo Souto de Moura in Portugal: photo : Shun Kambe © The Japan Art Association Lord Patten said, “All five laureates this year have close ties to the UK. They all share a love of ‘making’ – whereby concept and craft come together to create artistry of the highest order. I am also delighted that the Japan Art Association will celebrate our very own National Youth Theatre – who will be celebrating their 70th anniversary next year and who has produced outstanding work as well as provided pivotal support for generations of young actors as they transition into an often precarious profession.” Time Out Market Porto, 2024, design by Eduardo Souto de Moura: photos : Shun Kambe © The Japan Art Association Widely recognised as a leading figure in the ‘New Figurative Painting’ movement, Peter Doig’s painting career spans over three decades. Born in Edinburgh in 1959, Doig spent his early years in Trinidad and Canada before studying in London at St Martin’s School of Art and Chelsea School of Art. His paintings are known for their evocative blend of memory, dreamlike imagery and painterly innovation, drawing inspiration from photographs, postcards, films and personal experiences. Since rising to international prominence in the early 1990s, he has held a professorship at Kunstakademie Düsseldorf (2004 – 2017), was nominated for the Turner Prize (1994) and received the Wolfgang Hahn Prize (2008) as well as had major exhibitions held at Tate Britain (2008), the Fondation Beyeler (2014-5), the National Museum of Modern Art in Tokyo (2020). In 2023-24, Doig curated Reflections of the Century at the Musée d’Orsay in Paris. On 3 October 2025, Doig will open House of Music at the Serpentine in London. The exhibition of new and recent paintings will present Doig’s work alongside a sound installation for the first time, highlighting the significance of other disciplines to the artist’s practice, including music and film. Born in Belgrade, Serbia, during Yugoslavia’s communist regime, Marina Abramović is a trailblazer of performance art redefining the relationship between artist and audience. Currently living in New York, Abramović’s work remains thought-provoking, sometimes shocking, and continues to attract an audience of young and old. Abramovic has exhibited extensively across the world, from the Venice Biennale, Documenta, and the Centre Pompidou to solo retrospectives in London, Berlin, and Stockholm. Her video installation Balkan Baroque earned her the Golden Lion at the 1997 Venice Biennale and in 2005. Abramović’s major solo show at London’s Royal Academy of Arts (2023), which is set to tour Europe through 2026, made her the first woman in the RA’s 250-year history to occupy the entire gallery space. In October 2025, she will present Balkan Erotic Epic at Aviva Studios in Manchester. A four-hour ritual brought to life by over 70 performers, dancers, musicians and singers, Balkan Erotic Epic will explore eroticism, spirituality and traditions of Abramović’s homeland. Music Laureate, Hungarian-born Sir András Schiff, is one of the most distinguished pianists of our time. Schiff’s repertoire spans a broad range of composers, including Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Schumann, Bartók, and Janáček. In 1999, he founded Cappella Andrea Barca, a chamber orchestra of international soloists and friends, with whom he works closely. He also collaborates with the Chamber Orchestra of Europe and, since 2018, has served as Associate Artist of the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, performing on period instruments. Schiff was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 2014, awarded the Gold Medal of the Royal Philharmonic Society, the Grand Cross of Merit of Germany, and the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Art in 2024. On 23 August 2025, Schiff returns to the BBC Proms to perform Bach’s The Art of Fugue at the Royal Albert Hall. He has three further London appearances this autumn at the Wigmore Hall. Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker is a leading figure in the world of contemporary dance; as dancer, choreographer and founder of her own dance company, Rosas, as well as a guiding figure in the establishing the school PARTS (Performing Arts Research and Training Studios). Born in a rural town in Belgium, De Keersmaeker created her first choreographic work, Asch in 1980 but it was Fase, created in 1982 on her return to Belgium, that announced her arrival as a major new talent. In 1983, she founded Rosas—named after the Latin word for “roses”—and premiered her breakthrough piece Rosas danst Rosas. This debut revealed her distinctive choreographic style, marked by rigorously structured movement and repetition. At Festival d’Avignon this summer, De Keersmaeker and choreographer and dancer Solal Mariotte embrace Jacques Brel’s songs in an intense duet inspired by the poetry and the extraordinary stage presence and gestural expressivity of the Belgian artist. Eduardo Souto de Moura Architect Portuguese architect Eduardo Souto de Moura: photo : Shun Kambe © The Japan Art Association Born in Porto, the Portuguese architect Eduardo Souto de Moura is celebrated for his exquisite use of materials—granite, wood, marble, brick, steel, concrete—as well as his unexpected use of colour. The practice is internationally recognisable for its strong forms and sculptural masses, as seen in iconic projects such as the Braga Stadium (2004) and Casa das Histórias Paula Rego (2008) – as well as recent works including the careful transformation of a historic Portuguese farming village into a hotel (São Lourenço do Barrocal, 2017), whose process and finish resonates with many of Souto de Moura’s previous restoration projects such as the Convento Das Bernardas (2012). Souto de Moura won the Pritzker Prize in 2011, the Wolf Prize in 2013, the Golden Lion for best project on show at the Venice Architecture Biennale in 2018 and the Arnold W. Brunner Memorial Prize in 2019. He has previously designed the Serpentine Pavilion, in collaboration with Álvaro Siza, in 2005 and exhibited at the Royal Academy of Arts as part of the Sensing Spaces exhibition in 2014. Pousada Mosteiro de Amares by Eduardo Souto de Moura: photos : Shun Kambe © The Japan Art Association In addition to the Praemium Imperiale Awards, the National Youth Theatre (NYT) is selected for the 2025 Grant for Young Artists. Founded in London in 1956 by Michael Croft and Kenneth Spring, the National Youth Theatre is the world’s first youth theatre. It is well known for nurturing young talent, responsible for renowned actors such as Daniel Craig, Helen Mirren and Colin Firth. Under the artistic direction of Paul Roseby (since 2004), NYT has evolved into an organisation that encourages young people from all backgrounds to gather and use theatre as a tool for social change. Each year, over 10,000 young people audition to take part in masterclasses and free intensive courses for those aged 11 to 30. As NYT approaches its 70th anniversary in 2026, it is planning a ‘Global Watch Party,’ a collaborative event with youth arts organisations worldwide, using innovative digital technology to amplify the voices and stories of the next generation. Casa das Histórias Paula Rego, 2008 – museum in Cascais, Lisbon District, Portugal: photo © Luis Ferreira Alves, Courtesy of Souto de Moura Arquitectos Burgo Tower, 2007: photo © Luis Ferreira Alves, Courtesy of Souto de Moura Arquitectos Bruges Congress Center, 2022, Belgium: photo © Filip Dujardin, Courtesy of Souto de Moura Arquitectos House in Zagreb, Croatia, 2021: photo © Alessandra Chemollo, Courtesy of Souto de Moura Arquitectos Since 1989, the Praemium Imperiale Awards have been given annually in the categories of Painting, Sculpture, Architecture, Music and Theatre/Film; covering fields of achievement not represented by the Nobel Prizes. The Laureates are selected from a list submitted by six International Advisors to the Japan Art Association. In order to maintain the Awards’ mandate to select candidates who have made a major international impact in their particular field, the International Advisors for the Awards and their committees are committed to looking beyond their own national boundaries for ground-breaking artists to recommend to the Japan Art Association. Clermont-Ferrand Theatre, France, 2020: photo © Mathieu Noel, Courtesy of Souto de Moura Arquitectos Pedrógão Grande Memorial, 2017 photo © Miguel Ribeiro, Courtesy of Souto de Moura Arquitectos Previous British winners include David Hockney, Mona Hatoum, Anish Kapoor, Antony Gormley, Richard Long, Bridget Riley, Norman Foster, Richard Rogers, David Chipperfield, Judi Dench, Anthony Caro and Tony Cragg. Eduardo Souto de Moura, with Alvaro Siza on the left: photo : Juan Rodriguez, Courtesy of Souto de Moura Arquitectos 2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards images/information received 150725 Previously on e-architect: Praemium Imperiale 2024 Architecture: Shigeru Ban photo : Hiroyuki Hirai, Courtesy of Shigeru Ban Architects Praemium Imperiale 2023 Francis Kéré, architect, Berlin: photograph © Urban Zintel Praemium Imperiale 2021 Praemium Imperiale Architecture Laureate Past Winners Paulo Mendes da Rocha wins Praemium Imperiale 2016 for Architecture The Japan Art Association has today announced the recipients of the 2016 Praemium Imperiale Awards: Praemium Imperiale 2016 for Architecture Architect Dominique Perrault wins Praemium Imperiale 2015 for Architecture Praemium Imperiale 2015 for Architecture David Chipperfield wins Praemium Imperiale 2015 for Architecture Architectural Laureate of the Praemium Imperiale 2013 David Chipperfield is announced as the Architectural Laureate for the 2013 edition of the Japan Art Association’s Praemium Imperiale. The award will be presented by HIH Prince Hitachi, brother of Emperor Akihito, at a ceremony in Tokyo on 16 October 2013. Praemium Imperiale Architecture Laureate Archive Henning Larsen wins Praemium Imperiale Architecture Laureate 2012 Ricardo Legorreta wins Praemium Imperiale in 2011 Praemium Imperiale 2011 Toyo Ito wins Praemium Imperiale Architecture Laureate for 2010 Praemium Imperiale 2010 Zaha Hadid wins Praemium Imperiale Architecture Laureate for 2009 Praemium Imperiale 2009 Location: Tokyo, Japan, Asia Architecture Awards World Architecture Festival Awards Comments / photos for the 2025 Praemium Imperiale Awards Architecture Laureate News page welcome Website: www.praemiumimperiale.org


--- [Rist, Pipilotti | Südwest Galerie] ---
SWG Kunstlexikon PIPILOTTI RIST VIDEO / FILM Pipilotti Rist | Interview | Freeing the Wonderlight | Louisiana Channel | The trailblazing visual artist Pipilotti Rist – named after Pippi Longstocking – has continuously explored and exploded the conventions of video technologies. Come along as she takes us through her sensuous and immersive images and dreamscapes: “A show by me is like a journey through a body, or a helter-skelter through vessels.” “The given so-called normal life looks very surrealistic to me, and surrealistic displays look normal.” Pipilotti Rist argues that one of the responsibilities of artists is “to have a detached view on social constructions, on political situations and try to bring in other alternatives so that we don’t get stuck and frozen in given rules.” She finds it equally important to perceive the world “with closed eyes or in dreams” as what we process with open eyes is only a tiny, extremely subjective extract: “And from that knowledge, I give the same importance to looking inward and outward.” With her camera work, Rist tries to reverse the traditional hierarchy between the object and the subject – where the body often seems small and unimportant. Instead, she wants to immerse the visitor in the work along with the other visitors, “connecting everything on an emotional level.” In continuation of this, she claims that she is quite satisfied if her work can help people understand other perspectives: “If a visitor can lie down and relax and not fight against gravity, it changes her perception.” Rist confronts the conventional museum experience, where we tend to forget the physicality of our bodies and the images we carry inside: “My big goal is to free these images, to free that ‘wonderlight’, either by treating it like painting behind glass, but also to free it in the room, to put it back to our bodies.” She doesn’t distinguish between our bodies and nature: “We are organic structures, chaotic. We are not a Porsche. We are really a plant with no roots. A plant that can walk.” The body is all we have, she continues, and “all the technical tools I use to do my work are already incorporated in our given structure.” Moreover, Rist considers her work melancholic and feels that she is essentially honouring “disintegration, the dying and the beauty of the imperfect.” Pipilotti Rist (b. 1962 as Elisabeth Charlotte Rist) is a Swiss visual artist, who works with video, film and moving images, often displayed as projections. Among her most prevalent themes are gender, sexuality and the human body. In 1997 her work was featured in the Venice Biennial, where she was awarded a Premio 2000 award for the video ‘Ever Is Over All’. Other awards include the Wolfgang Hahn Prize (1999), the Joan Miró Prize (2009) and the Cutting the Edge Award at the 27th Annual Miami International Film Festival (2010). In 2000 her work ‘Open My Glade’ was commissioned by the New York Public Art Fund and was broadcast on the largest video screen in Times Square, New York. Rist has held solo exhibitions at MoMA in New York, Kunstverein in Hamburg, Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris and Museo Nacional Centro de Are Reina Sofia in Madrid among others. Her works are a part of prominent museums worldwide including MoMA in New York, Louisiana Museum of Modern Art in Humlebæk and Tate Modern in London. Pipilotti Rist was interviewed by Christian Lund at her studio in Switzerland in January 2019 as well as at the Louisiana Museum of Modern art in February 2019 in connection with the exhibition ‘Åbn min lysning’ (Open my Glade) | curated by Tine Colstrup | Camera Jakob Solbakken | Edited by Roxanne Bagheshirin Lærkesen | Produced by Christian Lund | Copyright Louisiana Channel | Louisiana Museum of Modern Art | 2019 | Supported by Nordea-fonden | YouTube PIPILOTTI RIST VIDEO / FILM Pipilotti Rist | Interview | Freeing the Wonderlight | Louisiana Channel | The trailblazing visual artist Pipilotti Rist – named after Pippi Longstocking – has continuously explored and exploded the conventions of video technologies. Come along as she takes us through her sensuous and immersive images and dreamscapes: “A show by me is like a journey through a body, or a helter-skelter through vessels.” “The given so-called normal life looks very surrealistic to me, and surrealistic displays look normal.” Pipilotti Rist argues that one of the responsibilities of artists is “to have a detached view on social constructions, on political situations and try to bring in other alternatives so that we don’t get stuck and frozen in given rules.” She finds it equally important to perceive the world “with closed eyes or in dreams” as what we process with open eyes is only a tiny, extremely subjective extract: “And from that knowledge, I give the same importance to looking inward and outward.” With her camera work, Rist tries to reverse the traditional hierarchy between the object and the subject – where the body often seems small and unimportant. Instead, she wants to immerse the visitor in the work along with the other visitors, “connecting everything on an emotional level.” In continuation of this, she claims that she is quite satisfied if her work can help people understand other perspectives: “If a visitor can lie down and relax and not fight against gravity, it changes her perception.” Rist confronts the conventional museum experience, where we tend to forget the physicality of our bodies and the images we carry inside: “My big goal is to free these images, to free that ‘wonderlight’, either by treating it like painting behind glass, but also to free it in the room, to put it back to our bodies.” She doesn’t distinguish between our bodies and nature: “We are organic structures, chaotic. We are not a Porsche. We are really a plant with no roots. A plant that can walk.” The body is all we have, she continues, and “all the technical tools I use to do my work are already incorporated in our given structure.” Moreover, Rist considers her work melancholic and feels that she is essentially honouring “disintegration, the dying and the beauty of the imperfect.” Pipilotti Rist (b. 1962 as Elisabeth Charlotte Rist) is a Swiss visual artist, who works with video, film and moving images, often displayed as projections. Among her most prevalent themes are gender, sexuality and the human body. In 1997 her work was featured in the Venice Biennial, where she was awarded a Premio 2000 award for the video ‘Ever Is Over All’. Other awards include the Wolfgang Hahn Prize (1999), the Joan Miró Prize (2009) and the Cutting the Edge Award at the 27th Annual Miami International Film Festival (2010). In 2000 her work ‘Open My Glade’ was commissioned by the New York Public Art Fund and was broadcast on the largest video screen in Times Square, New York. Rist has held solo exhibitions at MoMA in New York, Kunstverein in Hamburg, Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris and Museo Nacional Centro de Are Reina Sofia in Madrid among others. Her works are a part of prominent museums worldwide including MoMA in New York, Louisiana Museum of Modern Art in Humlebæk and Tate Modern in London. Pipilotti Rist was interviewed by Christian Lund at her studio in Switzerland in January 2019 as well as at the Louisiana Museum of Modern art in February 2019 in connection with the exhibition ‘Åbn min lysning’ (Open my Glade) | curated by Tine Colstrup | Camera Jakob Solbakken | Edited by Roxanne Bagheshirin Lærkesen | Produced by Christian Lund | Copyright Louisiana Channel | Louisiana Museum of Modern Art | 2019 | Supported by Nordea-fonden | YouTube PIPILOTTI RIST VIDEO / FILM Pipilotti Rist | Interview | Freeing the Wonderlight | Louisiana Channel | The trailblazing visual artist Pipilotti Rist – named after Pippi Longstocking – has continuously explored and exploded the conventions of video technologies. Come along as she takes us through her sensuous and immersive images and dreamscapes: “A show by me is like a journey through a body, or a helter-skelter through vessels.” “The given so-called normal life looks very surrealistic to me, and surrealistic displays look normal.” Pipilotti Rist argues that one of the responsibilities of artists is “to have a detached view on social constructions, on political situations and try to bring in other alternatives so that we don’t get stuck and frozen in given rules.” She finds it equally important to perceive the world “with closed eyes or in dreams” as what we process with open eyes is only a tiny, extremely subjective extract: “And from that knowledge, I give the same importance to looking inward and outward.” With her camera work, Rist tries to reverse the traditional hierarchy between the object and the subject – where the body often seems small and unimportant. Instead, she wants to immerse the visitor in the work along with the other visitors, “connecting everything on an emotional level.” In continuation of this, she claims that she is quite satisfied if her work can help people understand other perspectives: “If a visitor can lie down and relax and not fight against gravity, it changes her perception.” Rist confronts the conventional museum experience, where we tend to forget the physicality of our bodies and the images we carry inside: “My big goal is to free these images, to free that ‘wonderlight’, either by treating it like painting behind glass, but also to free it in the room, to put it back to our bodies.” She doesn’t distinguish between our bodies and nature: “We are organic structures, chaotic. We are not a Porsche. We are really a plant with no roots. A plant that can walk.” The body is all we have, she continues, and “all the technical tools I use to do my work are already incorporated in our given structure.” Moreover, Rist considers her work melancholic and feels that she is essentially honouring “disintegration, the dying and the beauty of the imperfect.” Pipilotti Rist (b. 1962 as Elisabeth Charlotte Rist) is a Swiss visual artist, who works with video, film and moving images, often displayed as projections. Among her most prevalent themes are gender, sexuality and the human body. In 1997 her work was featured in the Venice Biennial, where she was awarded a Premio 2000 award for the video ‘Ever Is Over All’. Other awards include the Wolfgang Hahn Prize (1999), the Joan Miró Prize (2009) and the Cutting the Edge Award at the 27th Annual Miami International Film Festival (2010). In 2000 her work ‘Open My Glade’ was commissioned by the New York Public Art Fund and was broadcast on the largest video screen in Times Square, New York. Rist has held solo exhibitions at MoMA in New York, Kunstverein in Hamburg, Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris and Museo Nacional Centro de Are Reina Sofia in Madrid among others. Her works are a part of prominent museums worldwide including MoMA in New York, Louisiana Museum of Modern Art in Humlebæk and Tate Modern in London. Pipilotti Rist was interviewed by Christian Lund at her studio in Switzerland in January 2019 as well as at the Louisiana Museum of Modern art in February 2019 in connection with the exhibition ‘Åbn min lysning’ (Open my Glade) | curated by Tine Colstrup | Camera Jakob Solbakken | Edited by Roxanne Bagheshirin Lærkesen | Produced by Christian Lund | Copyright Louisiana Channel | Louisiana Museum of Modern Art | 2019 | Supported by Nordea-fonden | YouTube
