=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[U.S. Postal Service Salutes Pioneering Journalist Gwen Ifill]
WASHINGTON — As the nation prepares to observe Black HistoryMonth, theU.S.Postal Service today issued the 43rd Black Heritagestamp, honoring one of America's most respected journalists,GwenIfill. The dedication ceremony was held at Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in Washington, DC, where she was a lifelong member. "GwenIfillwasaremarkable trailblazer who broke ...
URL: https://about.usps.com/newsroom/national-releases/2020/0130-usps-salutes-pioneering-journalist-gwen-ifill.htm

[Gwen Ifill stamp officially unveiled at Jan. 30 ceremony in Washington ...]
The United States Postal Service officially issued itsGwenIfillcommemorative foreverstampduring a Jan. 30 ceremony at the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C. Members ofIfill'sfamily andU.S.government officials were
URL: https://www.linns.com/news/us-stamps-page/gwen-ifill-stamp-officially-unveiled-at-jan.-30-ceremony-in-washington-d.c

[Gwen Ifill honored with image on 1st class stamp]
The United States Postal Service has issued a commemorative foreverstampto honor journalistGwenIfill. The Postal Service unveiled thestampat a firstdayof issue dedication ceremony held on Jan. 30, 2020, at the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C.
URL: https://spjdc.org/2020/05/gwen-ifill-honored-with-image-on-1st-class-stamp/

[U.S. Postal Service Issuing Gwen Ifill Black Heritage Forever Stamp Jan. 30]
GwenIfill, one of America's most esteemed journalists, ishonoredonthe 2020 Black Heritage Foreverstampbeing issued by theU.S.Postal Service, Jan. 30.
URL: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/us-postal-service-issuing-gwen-ifill-black-heritage-forever-stamp-jan-30-300979085.html

[Pioneering Black journalist Gwen Ifill honored on a U.S. stamp]
OnJanuary 30, 2020, just in time for Black HistoryMonth,Ifillwill behonoredonaU.S.foreverpostagestamp, released in Washington, D.C.
URL: https://www.peoplesworld.org/article/pioneering-black-journalist-gwen-ifill-honored-on-a-u-s-stamp/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [U.S. Postal Service Salutes Pioneering Journalist Gwen Ifill] ---
Jan. 30, 2020 43rd Black Heritage Stamp on Sale Nationwide Today WASHINGTON — As the nation prepares to observe Black History Month, the U.S. Postal Service today issued the 43rd Black Heritage stamp, honoring one of America’s most respected journalists, Gwen Ifill. The dedication ceremony was held at Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in Washington, DC, where she was a lifelong member. “Gwen Ifill was a remarkable trailblazer who broke through gender and racial barriers,” said Deputy Postmaster General Ronald A. Stroman, who served as the dedicating official. “The Postal Service is proud to celebrate Gwen’s contribution as a remarkable journalist with this beautiful commemorative Forever stamp. Gwen was truly a national treasure, and so richly deserving of today’s honor.” Joining Stroman to dedicate the stamp were Judy Woodruff, anchor and managing editor, PBS NewsHour; Eric Holder, partner, Covington & Burling Law Firm and former Attorney General of the United States; Michele Norris-Johnson, journalist and former National Public Radio host; and Ifill’s brothers Roberto (Bert) Ifill, educator and college analyst; Rev. Earle Ifill, member of the Atlanta North-Georgia Annual Conference of the Sixth Episcopal District of the African Methodist Episcopal Church; and Ifill’s cousin, Sherrilyn Ifill, president and director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. “The Ifill family is thrilled that our sister, cousin and aunt has received this signal tribute to her legacy as a truth-teller, pioneer and exemplar,” said Bert Ifill, Gwen’s brother and spokesperson for the family. “As a reporter and moderator, Gwen was dedicated to two principles: getting the story right and getting the right stories out. As a mentor, supportive friend and family member, she was determined, not only to open doors for those of us previously locked out of opportunity, but also to provide floor plans to help us find our way through. She is forever in our hearts, and we are forever in her debt.” Also, participating in the stamp dedication ceremony were Dorothy Tucker, broadcast journalist and president, National Association of Black Journalists; Rev. William Lamar IV, senior pastor, Metropolitan A.M.E. Church; and D.C. Washington, singer, conductor, member of Immanuel Bible Church and the nationally known Cathedral Choral Society in Washington, D.C. The Black Heritage stamp series, introduced in 1978, also includes Martin Luther King Jr., Dorothy Height, Madam C.J. Walker, Harriet Tubman, Sojourner Truth, Lena Horne and Gregory Hines. The stamp art features a photo of Ifill taken in 2008 by photographer Robert Severi. Art director Derry Noyes designed the stamp. News of the stamp is being shared with the hashtags #GwenIfillForever and #BlackHeritageStamps. Followers of the Postal Service’s Facebook page can view video of the ceremony at facebook.com/USPS. Background on Gwen Ifill Among the first African Americans to hold prominent positions in both broadcast and print journalism, Ifill was a trailblazer in the profession. After graduating from college in 1977, Ifill’s first job as a journalist was at The Boston Herald American. She later worked at The Baltimore Evening Sun, The Washington Post and The New York Times, where she was a White House correspondent and covered Bill Clinton’s presidential campaign in 1992. In 1994, Ifill moved to NBC, where she covered politics in the Washington bureau. Five years later, she joined PBS as senior political correspondent for “The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer” and moderator and managing editor of “Washington Week,” becoming the first woman and first African American to moderate a major television news-analysis show. During her career, Ifill covered seven presidential campaigns and, in 2004, she became the first African American female journalist to moderate a vice-presidential debate. She also moderated the 2008 vice-presidential debate. In 2013, Ifill became part of the first all-female team to anchor a daily national broadcast news show, “PBS NewsHour.” Ifill died in 2016. Among Ifill’s honors were the Radio Television Digital News Foundation’s Leonard Zeidenberg First Amendment Award (2006), Harvard’s Shorenstein Center’s Goldsmith Career Award for Excellence in Journalism (2009) and induction into the National Association of Black Journalists Hall of Fame (2012). In 2015, she was awarded the Fourth Estate Award by the National Press Club. She received numerous honorary degrees and served on the boards of the News Literacy Project and the Committee to Protect Journalists, which renamed its Press Freedom Award in her honor. The 2016 John Chancellor Award was posthumously awarded to Ifill by the Columbia Journalism School. In 2017, the Washington Press Club Foundation and “PBS NewsHour” created a journalism fellowship named for Ifill. Her alma mater, Simmons University, opened the Gwen Ifill College of Media, Arts, and Humanities in the fall of 2018. The Gwen Ifill Black Heritage stamp is being issued as a Forever stamp, which will always be equal in value to the current First-Class Mail 1-ounce price. Postal Products Customers may purchase stamps and other philatelic products through The Postal Store at usps.com/shopstamps, by calling 800-STAMP24 (800-782-6724), by mail through USA Philatelic, or at Post Office locations nationwide. Videos of most stamp ceremonies will be available on facebook.com/usps. Information on ordering first-day-of-issue postmarks and covers is at usps.com/shopstamps under “Collectors.” The Postal Service receives no tax dollars for operating expenses and relies on the sale of postage, products and services to fund its operations. ### USPS NEWS


--- [Gwen Ifill stamp officially unveiled at Jan. 30 ceremony in Washington ...] ---
U.S. STAMPS & POSTAL HISTORY US Stamps Gwen Ifill stamp officially unveiled at Jan. 30 ceremony in Washington, D.C. By Bill McAllister, Washington Correspondent Gwen Ifill was praised as the ideal journalist for today’s troubled news media when the United States Postal Service dedicated its 43rd Black Heritage stamp to the late public television anchor Jan. 30 in Washington, D.C. In a ceremony that filled the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church, government officials and family friends joined together, saying how Ifill’s professionalism would be the best answer to current questions about biased news reporting. “She was the gold standard,” said Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser as she proclaimed Jan. 30 "Gwen Ifill Day." Two former presidents, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama, whom Ifill covered, sent their congratulations for the stamp honor. Both recalled how tough a questioner she was as a White House reporter. Clinton praised her in a video as “a great reporter and master storyteller.” But it was a member of Ifill’s family who said the stamp, more than anything else, had helped ease their family’s grief over her death Nov. 14, 2016, at age 61. “Nothing has done more to heal our family than those three words ‘Gwen Ifill Forever,’ ” said Ifill cousin Sherrilyn Ifill, pointing to the huge reproduction of the stamp hanging in the sanctuary. Gwen Ifill may have been a preacher’s daughter, her cousin said, adding, “Today Gwen is the coolest.” Former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, citing controversies over today’s reporting, said this is “the time for journalists to be brave,” as Ifill was. “She will be in our hearts forever,” Holder said. Judy Woodruff, who was Ifill’s co-anchor on the PBS NewsHour, called her “my work sister” and told the audience “we mourn her every day.” “She was a beacon of honest, fair reporting,” said Woodruff, citing Ifill’s work as a print journalist for the Washington Post and The New York Times, and as a television reporter for NBC and PBS. “This is a very proud day for the Ifill family,” said her brother, Bert Ifill, an educator. “Gwen did carry a torch that warmed us as it enlightened us,” he said. The Rev. William H. Lamar, pastor of the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church, told the audience he could envision a heavenly conversation between Harriet Tubman, the Civil War abolitionist, and Ifill. “‘Darling, I hear you got a stamp,’ Tubman would say to Ifill.” “‘Well, let’s meet again when they unveil the new $20 bill,’ Ifill would say.” The audience roared with laughter, knowing that Tubman’s image for the $20 bill has been delayed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The ceremony lasted almost two hours and ended with a reception by the church honoring Ifill, one of the church’s best-known members. Connect with Linn’s Stamp News: Sign up for our newsletter Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter MORE RELATED ARTICLES Headlines - Auctions Mar 2, 2026, 4 PMJenkins collection of 19th-century British, French, Italian areas to cross Siegel auction block March 17-19 - World Stamps Mar 2, 2026, 1 PMRegistration open for youth events at Boston 2026 - US Stamps Feb 26, 2026, 3 PMPinback Buttons, other U.S. stamps to be withdrawn from sale March 31 - US Stamps Feb 25, 2026, 6 PMGarfield-Perry Stamp Club hosts 136th March Party show March 13-15


--- [Gwen Ifill honored with image on 1st class stamp] ---
By Randy Showstack The United States Postal Service has issued a commemorative forever stamp to honor journalist Gwen Ifill. The Postal Service unveiled the stamp at a first day of issue dedication ceremony held on Jan. 30, 2020, at the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C. Speakers at the ceremony included Judy Woodruff, who had co-anchored the PBS NewsHour with Ifill; Washington Post contributing columnist Michele Norris; and former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. Washington, D.C., Mayor Muriel Bowser read a proclamation declaring Jan. 30, 2020, as Gwen Ifill Day. Ifill was inducted into the SPJ DC Pro Chapter’s journalism Hall of Fame in June 2009. She died in 2016 after battling cancer. The Postal Service included a statement from SPJ DC Pro in its press kit. As a reporter and moderator, Gwen was dedicated to two principles: getting the story right and getting the right stories out. As a mentor, supportive friend and family member, she was determined, not only to open doors for those of us previously locked out of opportunity, but also to provide floor plans to help us find our way through. — Bert Ifill, Gwen’s brother and Ifill family spokesperson The Postal Service press release about the ceremony, stamp series and Ifill’s career contains a lot of interesting and helpful information, especially for stamp enthusiasts. A video of the event is available here, posted by USPS. Woodruff is also a member of the DC Pro journalism Hall of Fame. Statement of DC Pro included in press kit for event Statement by Randy Showstack, President, Washington, D.C., Pro Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists, on the occasion of the First Day of Issue Dedication Ceremony of the U.S. Postal Service’s Commemorative Forever Stamp to Honor Gwen Ifill January 30, 2020 The Washington, D.C., Pro Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists is honored to provide a statement about this very important memorial to Gwen Ifill, a great journalist. We are so pleased that the U.S. Postal Service has included Ms. Ifill on a stamp. She joins the ranks of important journalists such as Nellie Bly, Ida M. Tarbell, Marguerite Higgins, Ethel L. Payne, Ernie Pyle, Walter Lippmann, Ruben Salazar and Martha Gellhorn. Ms. Ifill was inducted into the Washington D.C. SPJ Journalism Hall of Fame in June 2009 because she exhibited the best of our trade. - She enriched the craft of journalism - She made significant contributions to journalism - She helped the public understand why free and independent journalism is important to a functioning democracy. Ms. Ifill was always known as a tough but fair reporter. She asked the questions that needed to be answered by business and political leaders. She also knew she had a responsibility to pass on the ideals of good journalism to the next generation. There are numerous stories of how she made herself available to new reporters and producers to offer advice and help. She mentored many of the journalists who today provide us with vital information. One of her producers at the PBS NewsHour said Ms. Ifill was “a journalist’s journalist.” We agree and we miss her. When people use this new stamp honoring our colleague, we hope they will reflect on how she made society better because of her contributions to fair, honest, and independent journalism. -30- Washington, D.C. Pro Chapter, Society of Professional Journalists Spjdc.org


--- [U.S. Postal Service Issuing Gwen Ifill Black Heritage Forever Stamp Jan. 30] ---
No content


--- [Pioneering Black journalist Gwen Ifill honored on a U.S. stamp] ---
Gwendolyn (Gwen) L. Ifill, born on September 29, 1955, was a trailblazer American journalist, television newscaster, and author. In 1999, she became the first woman of African descent to host a nationally televised U.S. public affairs program with Washington Week in Review. She was the moderator and managing editor of Washington Week and co-anchor and co-managing editor, with Judy Woodruff, of the PBS NewsHour. Ifill was a political analyst and moderated the 2004 and 2008 vice-presidential debates. She authored the best-selling book The Breakthrough: Politics and Race in the Age of Obama. Ifill died of cancer on November 14, 2016, at age 61, less than two weeks after Donald Trump was elected president of the United States. On January 30, 2020, just in time for Black History Month, Ifill will be honored on a U.S. forever postage stamp, released in Washington, D.C. Ifill was born in Jamaica, Queens, New York City, the fifth of six children of African Methodist Episcopal (AME) minister Oliver Urcille Ifill, Sr., a Panamanian of Barbadian descent who emigrated from Panama, and Eleanor Ifill, who was from Barbados. During her youth, she lived in several East Coast cities following her father’s ministry at different AME churches. She graduated in 1977 with a Bachelor of Arts in communications from Simmons College, a women’s college in Boston. She started her career in journalism at the Boston Herald-American, moving on to the Baltimore Evening Sun from 1981-84 and to The Washington Post from 1984-91. She left the Post after being told she wasn’t ready to cover Capitol Hill but was hired by The New York Times, where she covered the White House from 1991-94. Her first job in television was with NBC, where she was the network’s Capitol Hill reporter in 1994. In October 1999, Ifill became the moderator of the PBS program Washington Week in Review, the first Black woman to host a national political talk show on television. In 2006, she co-hosted Jamestown Live!, an educational webcast commemorating the 400th anniversary of Jamestown, Virginia. On October 5, 2004, Ifill moderated the vice-presidential debate between Republican Vice President Dick Cheney and the Democratic candidate, U.S. Senator from North Carolina, John Edwards. She was the first African-American woman to moderate a vice-presidential debate. Ifill also moderated the vice-presidential debate on October 2, 2008, between Democratic U.S. Senator from Delaware Joe Biden and the Republican Governor of Alaska Sarah Palin. Before the 2008 debate, Ifill’s objectivity was questioned by right-wing talk show and cable news pundits because her book The Breakthrough: Politics and Race in the Age of Obama was scheduled to be released on Inauguration Day 2009. Citing a possible conflict of interest, Kelly McBride of the Poynter Institute for Media Studies said, “Obviously the book will be much more valuable to her if Obama is elected.” Yet John McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, said on Fox News Channel, “I think she will do a totally objective job because she is a highly respected professional.” To her critics, Ifill observed, “No one’s ever assumed a white reporter can’t cover a white candidate.” “I’ve got a pretty long track record covering politics and news,” she said, “so I’m not particularly worried that one-day blog chatter is going to destroy my reputation. The proof is in the pudding. They can watch the debate tomorrow night and make their own decisions about whether or not I’ve done my job.” As her renown expanded, she was invited to serve on a number of prestigious boards and to be a presenter and emcee at a number of awards ceremonies. She also garnered a succession of prestigious awards herself in the media and journalism fields. In addition, Ifill received more than 20 honorary doctorates from universities around the world, including Georgetown University, Smith College, Bates College, and Skidmore College. In May 2011 she served as a commencement speaker at Morehouse College. The Breakthrough: Politics and Race in the Age of Obama focused on several African-American politicians, including Obama and other up-and-comers such as then-member of Congress Artur Davis, then-Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick, and then mayor of Newark, New Jersey, Cory Booker. The publisher, Random House, described the book as showing “why this is a pivotal moment in American history” through interviews with Black power brokers and through Ifill’s observations and analysis of issues. The book was a New York Times best-seller. In February 2016, she and Judy Woodruff, moderating the primary debate between Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, became the first team of women to moderate a Democratic presidential debate. Columbia University awarded Ifill the John Chancellor Award for Excellence in Journalism in 2016, but she died two days before the scheduled ceremony. On the one year anniversary of her death, November 14, 2017, Ifill’s alma mater Simmons College announced that it would launch a school in 2018, named in her honor as the Gwen Ifill College of Media, Arts and Humanities. In her personal life, Ifill never married and had no children. On the night she died, PBS NewsHour devoted almost their entire show to her. President Obama extended his condolences to Ifill’s family, saying that he “always appreciated [her] reporting even when [he] was at the receiving end of one of her tough interviews.” First Lady Michelle Obama was among the thousands who attended her funeral at the Metropolitan AME Church in Washington, D.C. A video of Gwen Ifill speaking about race shortly after President Obama’s inauguration can be viewed here. Adapted from Wikipedia.
