=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tenerife airport disaster - Wikipedia]
On 27 March 1977, two Boeing 747 passenger jets collided on a runway at Los Rodeos Airport (now Tenerife North-Ciudad de La Laguna Airport) on the Spanish island of Tenerife, killing 583 people and injuring 61 others in the deadliest accident in aviation history. [1][2][3][c] The incident occurred at 5:06 pm GMT (UTC +0) in dense fog, when KLM Flight 4805 initiated its takeoff run, colliding ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tenerife_airport_disaster

[The 1977 Tenerife Airport Disaster - LOST IN HISTORY]
Sep 5, 2024 · The collision and explosion instantly claimed the lives of the 248 passengers and crew on KLM Flight 4805, as well as 335 passengers and crew members on Pan Am Flight 1736.
URL: https://lost-in-history.com/the-1977-tenerife-airport-disaster/

[Highest death toll from an aircraft ground collision]
Two heavily loaded Boeing 747s collided on the runway at Los Rodeos Airport in Tenerife, Spain, killing 583 people. The two aircraft involved were Pan Am flight 1736 from Los Angeles via New York JFK, which was carrying 380 passengers and 16 crew, and KLM flight 4805 from Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, carrying, 14 crew and 235 passengers.
URL: https://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/63031-highest-death-toll-from-an-aircraft-ground-collision

[Remembering the deadliest incident in aviation history: When a KLM ...]
On that day, a KLM Boeing 747 and a Pan Am Boeing 747 collided on the tarmac at the Tenerife Airport, resulting in the deaths of 583 people. The accident happened when KLM flight 4805, carrying 248 passengers and crew, attempted to take off from the same runway where Pan Am flight 1736, which had 396 people on board, was taxiing.
URL: https://theaviationgeekclub.com/remembering-the-deadliest-incident-in-aviation-history-when-a-klm-boeing-747-collided-with-a-pan-am-boeing-747-on-the-tarmac-at-the-tenerife-airport/

[Tenerife airport disaster | 1977, Survivors, Photo, Cause, & Facts ...]
Jan 5, 2026 · Later, just as KLM flight 4805 prepared to take off from the single airstrip at Los Rodeos, the plane barreled into Pan American World Airways (Pan Am) flight 1736, which had been taxiing toward takeoff at the same time. The force from the crash tore through the fuselage of the Pan Am plane, and both aircraft exploded into flames.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/event/Tenerife-airport-disaster


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tenerife airport disaster - Wikipedia] ---
On 27 March 1977, two Boeing 747 passenger jets collided on a runway at Los Rodeos Airport (now Tenerife North–Ciudad de La Laguna Airport) on the Spanish island of Tenerife, killing 583 people and injuring 61 others in the deadliest accident in aviation history. The incident occurred at 5:06 pm GMT (UTC +0) in dense fog, when KLM Flight 4805 initiated its takeoff run, colliding with the starboard side of Pan Am Flight 1736, which was on the runway. The impact and the resulting fire killed all 248 people on board the KLM plane and 335 of the 396 people on board the Pan Am plane, with all 61 survivors being in the front section of the latter aircraft.
The two aircraft had landed at Los Rodeos earlier that Sunday and were among a number of aircraft diverted to Los Rodeos due to a bomb explosion at their intended destination of Gran Canaria Airport. Los Rodeos had become congested with parked planes blocking the only taxiway, forcing departing aircraft to taxi on the runway. Patches of thick fog were drifting across the airfield, so visibility was greatly reduced for pilots and the control tower.
An investigation by Spanish authorities concluded that the primary cause of the accident was the KLM captain's decision to take off in the mistaken belief that a takeoff clearance from air traffic control (ATC) had been issued. Dutch investigators placed a greater emphasis on a mutual misunderstanding in radio communications between the KLM crew and ATC, but ultimately KLM admitted that its crew was responsible for the accident and the airline agreed to financially compensate the relatives of all of the victims.
The accident had a lasting influence on the industry, highlighting in particular the vital importance of using standard phraseology in radio communications. Cockpit procedures were also reviewed, contributing to the establishment of crew resource management as a fundamental part of airline pilots' training. The captain is no longer considered infallible and combined crew input is encouraged during aircraft operations.


--- [The 1977 Tenerife Airport Disaster - LOST IN HISTORY] ---
On Sunday 27 March 1977, just after 5:00 PM, two 747 jumbo jets collided during take-off on the runway of Los Rodeos Airport in the Canary Islands off the Spanish coast. The collision caused a massive explosion and both aircraft were engulfed in flames. The Tenerife airport disaster remains the deadliest crash in aviation history. Despite the devastating impact and resulting fire, there were some survivors. Of the 644 people on board the two planes, 583 were killed and 61 somehow managed to survive. The crash of a single passenger airplane is bad enough. How could two 747’s have collided on the same runway? Nearly a dozen mistakes and uncontrollable events lined up for the disaster to occur. The pilots of both planes were experienced, but they both made critical errors that led to the horrific tragedy. The KLM Flight 4805 from Amsterdam to Gran Canaria was flown by Captain Jacob Veldhuyzen van Zanten and First Officer Klaas Meurs. It carried 14 crew and 234 passengers on departure from Tenerife. The Pan Am Flight 1736 from New York JFK to Gran Canaria was piloted by Captain Victor Grubbs and First Officer Robert Bragg. It carried 16 crew and 380 passengers. Ironically, neither of the planes should have even been at Tenerife, let alone on the same runway at the same time. So how did the Tenerife airport disaster happen? Both 747’s were carrying passengers heading towards vacations on Grand Canary Island. That Sunday morning, shortly before the arrival of the two jumbo jets, a terrorist group set off a bomb in Grand Canary’s Las Palmas Airport terminal. A telephoned threat made reference to “bombs,” so all incoming flights were postponed or diverted. While the search for a second bomb was carried out, incoming aircrafts, including the Pan Am and KLM 747’s were diverted. They landed at nearby Tenerife Los Rodeos Airport to wait until Las Palmas officials gave the all-clear. The search took hours and hundreds of buckled-in passengers now stuck in Tenerife became impatient. The much smaller Los Rodeos Airport had only one runway, one parallel taxiway, and limited space for aircraft. The diverted aircraft had to park on the taxiway, meaning departing aircraft had to taxi into position around them using the runway. Only two Air Traffic Controllers were on duty, and they had to handle much more traffic than either had ever seen. Trying not to jam up the airport’s small terminal building, Pan Am Captain Grubbs kept the 380 passengers and 13 crew on board while they waited. After an hour or so, Grubbs invited anyone on board to have a look in the 747’s cockpit. Dozens of curious and bored passengers eagerly accepted the offer. A line of people extended through the second-floor lounge, down a circular stairway into the first-class section. “They ordered us down without saying why,” Grubbs told frustrated passengers. “We told them that we could remain in a holding pattern above Las Palmas because we had plenty of fuel.” If Pan Am had been allowed to stay in a holding pattern, the ensuing accident would never have happened. In the KLM plane, Captain Van Zanten had let their 234 passengers leave the airplane and wait in the small Tenerife terminal. While they waited, the KLM cockpit crew worried aloud about their Dutch government’s strict rules limiting overtime for flight crews. Their continuing flight from Grand Canary back to Amsterdam would push that limit. “It could mean serious fines and even a revocation of your pilot’s license,” Captain van Zanten explained to his cockpit crew. The KLM captain then decided to use the time waiting at the terminal to refuel his plane so he would not have to later at Gran Canary. It was a decision that would later prove disastrous. Just after the refueling began, the tower informed them that Las Palmas airport had reopened. But now, KLM had to wait for the fuel truck to finish. Several smaller passenger jets were able to taxi around the KLM 747 and onto the runway and leave Tenerife. But Pan Am, parked behind KLM on the apron was too large and had to wait as well. And with the extra fuel, KLM had become thousands of pounds heavier, meaning it would need more runway to get off the ground. Another factor that would prove disastrous in a few minutes. KLM terminal staff rounded up all the passengers and bused them back to the waiting plane. Meanwhile, an evening fog rolled in and the visibility throughout the Tenerife airport quickly worsened. Los Rodeos Airport frequently suffered from foggy conditions. Drifting clouds reduced the visibility to less than 100 meters (110 yards) on the runway. In addition to the crew’s visibility, the fog affected the tower’s view as well. Shortly before 5 PM, the control tower gave KLM permission to start its engines and gave them take-off instructions. They were to taxi and enter the runway at the northwest end, move down the runway, and leave it at exit turnoff C-3 for the adjacent taxiway. From there it could continue to the southeast end of the taxiway, swing back onto the runway, then wait for its final takeoff run back to the northwest. The Pan Am 747 also started its engines, and the tower gave them the same instructions, following behind the KLM plane. But that’s not what happened. Both cockpit crews got confused about the runway exit they were supposed to take. Neither crew was sure which exit the ground controller had told them to take. C-3 required a difficult maneuver. They would have to turn their huge 747’s 135 degrees to the left to get onto C-3, then turn 135 degrees to the right to get on the taxiway. By comparison, the C-4 turnoff was only a 45 degree turn. After several back and fourths between KLM and the tower seeking clarity, the airport traffic controller changed his mind. At 4:56 PM, the tower gave the KLM aircraft clearance to taxi the length of the runway and do a 180-degree turn, so that the jet was then facing the direction for take-off. The KLM crew did as directed, going to the end the runway and completed their turn. In the meantime, the Pan Am 747 was entering the runway on the other end as KLM just had. At 5:02 PM, the Pan Am aircraft was instructed to start its taxi along the runway and exit at C-3. As with KLM, the Pan Am crew was confused. Grubbs and Bragg had trouble believing they weren’t supposed to leave at C-4. The Pan Am aircraft did not take the third exit, which would have required the two sharp turns and continued to taxi along the runway towards C-4. Copilot Bragg later said the fog was so heavy that they taxied past C-3 without noticing it. The two jumbo jets were now facing each other on the same runway at opposite ends, but unable to see each other through the fog. Tenerife air traffic controllers could not see the runway and had no ground radar. At 5:06 PM, the tower gave KLM departure and routing instructions but not takeoff clearance. KLM 4805 read this back and finished with, “We are now at takeoff.” The response from the tower was, “Stand by for takeoff. I will call you.” The KLM crew likely missed part of this critical communication due to radio interference. At the same time, the Pan Am crew radioed, “We’re still taxiing down the runway, Pan Am 1736.” The overlap in these two messages led to the KLM crew not hearing the critical tower instructions. That transmission should have been audible in KLM’s cockpit, but instead an electronic buzz, or heterodyne, interfered with the transmission. The KLM 747 began its take-off run! Oblivious to this series of unfortunate events, the passengers inside each plane were adjusting seat backs, putting away personal items and getting ready for the short hop over to Las Palmas. After a several-hour delay, the passengers were finally getting ready to take off to their vacations. Just as Pan Am passed C-3, KLM’s captain took the action that sealed everyone’s fate: He began his takeoff roll before getting permission from the controller. First officer Klaas Meurs was still finishing a radio confirmation with the tower of their post-takeoff flight instructions. At 5:06 pm, Captain van Zanten released the brake, pushed the throttles, and began accelerating down the runway. “Stand by for takeoff. I will call you,” the controller had said to him. Apparently van Zanten heard only the word “takeoff.” Yet, even with van Zanten’s decision to begin, there was still one last opportunity to avoid the collision. The flight engineer did not like what he thought he’d heard on the radio. “Is Pan Am still on the runway?” he asked van Zanten, as KLM picked up speed. Captain Van Zanten apparently didn’t hear him, and seconds ticked by. “What did you say?” the pilot asked. “Is he not clear, the Pan American?” More seconds ticked by. “Oh … yes” van Zanten responded. The last words recorded in the KLM cockpit, just before the rash at 5:07 pm, were a shouted Dutch swear word, when Pan Am suddenly appeared through the fog still taxiing in front of them, “Godverdomme!” The Pan Am 747 jumbo jet was moving slowly down the runway when the passengers felt a sudden sharp swerve to the left, heading off the runway. Captain Grubbs and first officer Bragg had just seen the KLM 747 speeding through the fog directly toward them. Grubbs tried desperately to get out of the way, heading into the grass next to the runway. They did not make it. Captain Van Zanten pulled back hard on the yoke and added power in a unsuccessful attempt to take-off and clear the Pan Am 747. Just refueled, the plane was too heavy for such a maneuver. The nose rose in the air and the plane’s tail carved a 68-foot groove in the runway. The ensuing collision and the jet fuel firestorm that followed killed everyone on board KLM 4805. The KLM struck the Pan Am 747 at an angle because of that emergency left turn by Captain Grubbs. Some sections of the 747 weren’t as damaged as those that took the full impact of KLM’s fuselage. After both planes came to a rest in pieces, around 100 Pan Am passengers were alive. What followed was a hellish few minutes of evacuation by some of the passengers, and a shocked immobility by others. The situation inside Pan Am 1736 required immediate escape as fires and smoke filled the cabin. The first people to respond, other than the crew members, were those who had looked at the safety cards and understood the cabin’s layout. Passengers made their way to the exits, only to find that no slides were available because the side of the plane had been ripped apart in the collision. They had no choice but to leap 20 feet down to the runway. Several less-injured passengers climbed up through a hole in the ceiling, then down to the undamaged left wing. The scene outside was pure chaos. Huge orange flames and massive black smoke roared up from the destroyed Pan Am. The KLM wreckage was burning 400 yards down the runway. Pan Am’s crew and four surviving flight attendants did their best to guide passengers to safety. The Airport immediately launched rescue efforts to save the survivors. At least 71 people on board the Pan Am plane were able to get away from the burning fuselage. However, several later died of their injuries. Only 61 people survived. The collision and explosion instantly claimed the lives of the 248 passengers and crew on KLM Flight 4805, as well as 335 passengers and crew members on Pan Am Flight 1736. Following the Tenerife airport disaster, an investigation was conducted to determine the cause. It was found that a series of miscommunications and misunderstandings among the air traffic controllers and pilots contributed to the tragedy. Poor visibility due to the fog also played a role. Los Rodeos Airport was ill-prepared to handle such a large number of diverted aircraft. The investigation revealed that KLM pilot Captain Jacob Veldhuyzen van Zanten made a critical error in attempting to take off without proper clearance. The investigation highlighted the importance of effective communication and coordination between air traffic controllers and pilots, as well as the need for improved runway safety protocols. As a result, numerous changes were made to international aviation regulations and procedures. These changes included improved communication systems, increased training for pilots and air traffic controllers, new protocols for responding to adverse weather conditions, an expansion of runway traffic light systems. In the years after the Tenerife airport disaster, the island’s government completed a new airport—this one with ground radar. A memorial to honor the victims is the Tenerife Memorial Gardens, located in Los Rodeos Airport, near the site of the collision. It features a tall monument with the engraved names of all the victims. Every year, on March 27th, ceremonies are held there to commemorate the Tenerife airport disaster and honor the memory of those who tragically lost their lives.


--- [Highest death toll from an aircraft ground collision] ---
Highest death toll from an aircraft ground collision - Who - Tenerife Airport Disaster - What - 583 people - Where - Spain (Los Rodeos) - When - 29 March 1977 The deadliest accident in the history of commercial aviation was the Tenerife Airport Disaster, which took place on 27 March 1977. Two heavily loaded Boeing 747s collided on the runway at Los Rodeos Airport in Tenerife, Spain, killing 583 people. The two aircraft involved were Pan Am flight 1736 from Los Angeles via New York JFK, which was carrying 380 passengers and 16 crew, and KLM flight 4805 from Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, carrying, 14 crew and 235 passengers. Both were well-maintained modern aircraft with experienced flight crews, the KLM aircraft was even captained by Louis Veldhuyzen van Zanten, head of the airline's 747 pilot training program. Neither plane was scheduled to land at Los Rodeos; their destination was the larger and better equipped Gran Canaria Airport, located on the island of the same name some 90 km to the east. At around 1 p.m. that day, Gran Canaria Airport was closed following a bomb threat. The only viable alternate destination for many of the aircraft was the small, single-runway airport on Tenerife. At 2:30 p.m., the Gran Canaria Airport was reopened, but by then around a dozen airliners, including everything from small prop planes to four-engined 747s, were stacked up on the tarmac at Los Rodeos. Many had been forced to let their passengers disembark, and were now struggling to round them back up to leave. The KLM pilots decided to refuel their plane during the wait, but in the process blocked the taxiway, preventing the Pan Am flight from leaving either. As the afternoon wore on, the weather at Los Rodeos got progressively worse, with a heavy fog descending on the airport. By the time the pair of 747s were cleared to depart at 4:51 p.m. it had lowered visibility down to around 100 m. What followed was a series of tragic miscommunications involving an overworked and flustered group of fairly inexperienced air-traffic controllers and two airline crews who were both trying to navigate an unfamiliar airport almost blind. The situation was made worse by the fact the airport was not set up for aircraft as large as the 747, meaning that the controllers were having to guide them around the taxiways using non-standard routes, and also that the pilots were having to concentrate hard on turning manoeuvres to avoid running onto the grass or striking ground structures. The direct causes of the crash were two fatal misunderstandings. The first involved the crew of the Pan Am flight, who couldn't make sense of the ambiguous directions they'd been given by their controller, leaving them taxiing down the runway from the west. The second involved the captain of the KLM flight at the eastern end of the runway, who misinterpreted the order to wait for takeoff clearance as takeoff clearance itself. The KLM flight was accelerating down the runway when the Pan Am 747 loomed into view, turned almost at a right angle across the runway as it turned onto one of the side taxiways. Captain van Zanten tried to take off early, pulling back hard on the yoke, but didn't manage to get clear. The KLM plane lifted about two metres off the runway before bellying into the upper half of the Pan Am plane's fuselage, tearing both planes apart. Everyone on the KLM flight was killed within a few seconds as the aircraft tumbled down the runway in flames. The only survivor was a local tour guide, whose final destination was on Tenerife anyway, and who had snuck out of the airport during the hold. Surprisingly, many on the Pan Am flight survived the initial impact, but the speed with which the fire spread, combined with the relatively advanced age of the passengers – most were retirees traveling for a cruise – meant that only 61 people managed to get out from the 395 on board. In the aftermath of the disaster, airports and airlines around the world worked to standardize the phrasing and terminology used in crucially important instructions. They most notable changes being a shift to controllers never saying the word "takeoff" except in the context of explicit final clearance to depart, and not using filler phrases (such as "OK..." or "right...") that can be interpreted as positive response.


--- [Remembering the deadliest incident in aviation history: When a KLM ...] ---
Despite both aircraft attempting to avoid each other, with the Pan Am Boeing 747 veering sharply onto the grass and the KLM Boeing 747 pulling up, they were unable to avoid the collision. The 747 was the result of the work of some 50,000 Boeing people. Called “the Incredibles,” these were the construction workers, mechanics, engineers, secretaries and administrators who made aviation history by building the 747 — then the largest civilian airplane in the world — in roughly 16 months during the late 1960s. The incentive for creating the giant 747 came from reductions in airfares, a surge in air-passenger traffic and increasingly crowded skies. On Mar. 27, 1977 two Boeing 747s were involved in the deadliest incident in aviation history. On that day, a KLM Boeing 747 and a Pan Am Boeing 747 collided on the tarmac at the Tenerife Airport, resulting in the deaths of 583 people. The accident happened when KLM flight 4805, carrying 248 passengers and crew, attempted to take off from the same runway where Pan Am flight 1736, which had 396 people on board, was taxiing. Due to bad weather, the pilots on the two planes were unable to see each other from a distance and were relying on air traffic control to guide them. The error was only spotted when the KLM flight was just 2,000ft away from the Pam Am plane – but it was already too late. Seconds before crashing, Pan Am pilot Victor Grubbs was recorded saying: “Look at him! Goddamn, that son of a bitch is coming!” Despite both aircraft attempting to avoid each other, with the Pan Am plane veering sharply onto the grass and the KLM Boeing 747 pulling up, they were unable to avoid the collision. As explained in extensive piece published by The Sun, the KLM aircraft’s undercarriage and engines hit the top of the Pan Am plane at speed, resulting in a catastrophic crash. Pan Am co-captain Robert Bragg, who died in 2017, told BBC’s Witness in 2016: “When he hit us, it was a very soft boom. “I then looked up for the fire control handles and that’s when I noticed the top of the aeroplane was gone.” Robert managed to escape along with 61 lucky passengers. He explained: “I jumped to the ground, 40 feet from the cockpit and thanked the lord I landed on grass. “One poor lady jumped first and everyone else jumped on her, broke her back and both legs and both arms.” After five minutes, the fuel tank blew up, sending flames “250 feet in the air,” as the aircraft fell apart. The collision of the two planes was attributed to a number of issues. Earlier that day, a bomb explosion at Gran Canaria Airport that injured eight people, followed by a second bomb threat by the Canary Islands Independence Movement, led to extra planes being diverted to the airport in Tenerife. With a large number of aircraft landing, the entrance to the main runway was blocked. It meant that planes were forced to taxi on the runway itself, before making a 180 degree turn to take off. It was also a foggy day, meaning a much lower visibility for pilots. Because of this, Pan Am missed their assigned turn off at exit three and taxied to exit four instead, keeping them on the runway for much longer than expected. However, what were also factored in the final incident report were the key phrases used by pilots and air traffic control which caused confusion and misunderstanding. The incident report filed in 1977 explained that there was a breakdown in communication due to the ambiguous use of the words “okay” and “take off”, as well as the different accents and languages involved. The report gives an example of the problem this caused during the incident: “The controller then said, “Okay (pause) stand by for takeoff, I will call you.” “On the KLM CVR, the portion of this transmission following the word ‘okay’ is overlayed by a high pitched squeal, and the tone of the controller’s voice is somewhat distorted, though understandable.” The report said: “We believe that nothing after the word ‘okay’ passed the filters of the Dutch crew, thus they believed the controller’s transmission approved their announced action in taking off.” Pilots are now required to learn “radiotelephony”, also known as Aviation English, which features roughly 300 words and instructions on when and how to use them. Roger, for example, means message received – but it doesn’t mean the receiver understands the instruction, or that they are planning to comply. Instead, a pilot might say Roger and then repeat the instruction back to the ATC to make sure both sides are clear on the situation – or they could say Roger and explain why they can’t follow the instruction or if they don’t understand. Pilots only confirm that they will follow the instructions given when they say Wilco (for will comply). Words that have ambiguous meanings such as “okay”, which could be misinterpreted, are not part of Aviation English. Another issue that was highlighted was the authority in the cabin – the co-pilot on the KLM flight was relatively junior and didn’t have the authority to challenge the captain’s decisions in the cabin. So when he highlighted a possible miscommunication, he was ignored by the captain. Since then, the co-pilots, and even the crew, have been given greater power to challenge the captain’s decisions. The accident (which was also known as the Tenerife Airport Disaster), the worst of its kind in history, now forms an essential part of a pilot’s training. The following video is an FAA animation of the Tenerife accident. Photo credit: SafetyCard Own work and Anynobody via Wikipedia


--- [Tenerife airport disaster | 1977, Survivors, Photo, Cause, & Facts ...] ---
Tenerife airport disaster Tenerife airport disaster, runway collision of two Boeing 747 passenger airplanes in the Canary Islands on March 27, 1977. The disaster killed 583 people, making it the deadliest aviation accident in history. - Date: - March 27, 1977 - Location: - Canary Islands - Spain - Tenerife Both planes involved in the crash had been scheduled to depart from Las Palmas on the island of Gran Canaria. However, a terrorist bombing there earlier in the day caused the planes to be diverted to the small Los Rodeos Airport on the island of Tenerife. Later, just as KLM flight 4805 prepared to take off from the single airstrip at Los Rodeos, the plane barreled into Pan American World Airways (Pan Am) flight 1736, which had been taxiing toward takeoff at the same time. The force from the crash tore through the fuselage of the Pan Am plane, and both aircraft exploded into flames. All 248 passengers and crew members aboard the KLM plane were killed. On the Pan Am plane 335 people died, but 61, including the pilot, survived the impact and fire. Many survivors escaped from a hole near the plane’s left wing. Some experts speculated that the KLM plane had begun its takeoff without proper clearance, though a number of factors, including foggy weather and unusual airport traffic conditions, likely played a role in the disaster.
