=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Creflo Dollar - Wikipedia]
Dollar began his ministry in 1986, holding the first worship service of World Changers Ministries Christian Center in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School in College Park, Georgia, with eight people in attendance. The congregation grew rapidly, eventually renamed World Changers Church International (WCCI). [6] In December 1995, the ministry moved into its current headquarters ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Creflo_Dollar

[Our History | WCCI]
The first service of World Changers Ministries The first service of World Changers Ministries is held in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School, with eight attendees.
URL: https://worldchangers.org/about-us/our-history

[Creflo Dollar - College Park Atlanta Georgia, Pastor, Doctorate Degree ...]
A native of College Park, Georgia, Creflo Dollar received the vision for World Changers Ministries Christian Center in 1986. He held the church's first worship service in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School in College Park, with only eight people in attendance.
URL: https://about.me/CrefloDollar

[About | Creflo Dollar Ministries - WordPress.com]
... for World Changers Ministries Christian Center in 1986. He held the church's first worship service in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School ...
URL: https://creflodollarministriesblog.wordpress.com/about/

[World Changers Ministries Directory | Add Url or Add Site to Submit to ...]
Creflo held the first worship service of his new church in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School in College Park, Georgia, the school that he attended as a child. There were eight people in attendance. As his church grew, he moved from the cafeteria to a dedicated chapel, and renamed his ministry as World Changers Church ...
URL: https://www.avivadirectory.com/Religion/World-Religions/Abrahamic-Religions/Christianity/Church-Divisions/Protestant/Denominations/New-Paradigm/World-Changers-Ministries/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Creflo Dollar - Wikipedia] ---
Creflo Augustus Dollar Jr. (born January 28, 1962) is an American pastor, televangelist, and the founder of the non-denominational World Changers Church International (WCCI), based in College Park, Georgia. He is the head of Creflo Dollar Ministries and the Creflo Dollar Ministerial Association.
For much of his career, Dollar has been a prominent figure in the Word of Faith movement, known for teaching prosperity theology. However, in the 2010s, his ministry shifted focus toward what he terms the "Gospel of Grace." In 2022, Dollar garnered significant public attention for formally retracting his long-held teachings on mandatory tithing, stating that the practice is not required for New Testament believers.
Dollar's ministry has a global reach through his television program, Changing Your World. He has frequently been the subject of public scrutiny and criticism regarding his personal wealth and the financial transparency of his ministry.


--- [Our History | WCCI] ---
Our History Current World Changers Church International (WCCI) World Changers Church International experiences phenomenal growth and gains a global reach, becoming a leader within the local, national, and international community. Creflo Dollar's simple, practical teaching and understanding of the Bible continues to captivate and impact people's lives. 1995 8,500-seat World Dome World Changers Church International moves into the 8,500-seat World Dome, a debt-free facility that exemplifies the application of biblical principles taught at the church. 1988 acquires the former Atlanta Christian Center Church World Changers Ministries acquires the former Atlanta Christian Center Church in College Park as its new location. 1986 The first service of World Changers Ministries The first service of World Changers Ministries is held in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School, with eight attendees. 1981 World Changers Church International (WCCI) Founded World Changers Church International (WCCI) is founded in College Park, Georgia, a suburb of Atlanta, by Creflo Dollar.


--- [Creflo Dollar - College Park Atlanta Georgia, Pastor, Doctorate Degree ...] ---
No content


--- [About | Creflo Dollar Ministries - WordPress.com] ---
Creflo Dollar is the founder and senior pastor of World Changers Church International (WCCI) in College Park, Georgia which serves nearly 30,000 members, and World Changers Church-New York which hosts over 6,000 worshippers each week. With more than 25 years in ministry, Creflo Dollar is committed to bringing the good news of Jesus Christ to people all over the world, literally changing the world one person at a time. A former educational therapist, Creflo Dollar received the vision for World Changers Ministries Christian Center in 1986. He held the church’s first worship service in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School in College Park, Georgia, with only eight people in attendance. Over the years the ministry grew rapidly and was renamedWorld Changers Church International. The congregation moved from the cafeteria to a modest-sized chapel, adding a weekly radio broadcast and four services each Sunday. On December 24, 1995, WCCI moved into its present location, the 8,500-seat sanctuary known as the World Dome. At a cost of nearly $18 million, the World Dome was built without any bank financing. The construction of the World Dome is a testament to the miracle-working power of God and remains a model of debt-freedom that ministries all over the world emulate. A native of College Park, Georgia, Creflo Dollar has a bachelors degree in education, a masters degree in counseling, and a doctorate in counseling. He was awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from Oral Roberts University in 1998. He is the publisher of CHANGE magazine, a quarterly international publication with nearly 100,000 subscribers, and The Max, a bimonthly resource newsletter for ministers and ministry leaders. His award-winning Changing Your World television broadcast reaches nearly 1 billion homes in practically every country in the world. A much sought-after conference speaker and best-selling author, Creflo Dollar is known for his practical approach to the Bible and has encouraged thousands to pursue a personal relationship with God. Creflo Dollar and his wife, Taffi, have five children and live in Atlanta.


--- [World Changers Ministries Directory | Add Url or Add Site to Submit to ...] ---
Formally known as the World Changers Church International, World Changers Ministries is associated with Creflo Dollar, who began developing the ministry in 1986. Creflo Dollar also heads the Creflo Dollar Ministerial Association, which was originally called International Covenant Ministries, as well as Creflo Dollar Ministries, and Arrow Records. Creflo held the first worship service of his new church in the cafeteria of Kathleen Mitchell Elementary School in College Park, Georgia, the school that he attended as a child. There were eight people in attendance. As his church grew, he moved from the cafeteria to a dedicated chapel, and renamed his ministry as World Changers Church International. By then, attendance had increased considerably, so that he held four services each Sunday, as well as a weekly radio broadcast. Creflo moved his church to its current location in College Park, Georgia in December of 1995, meeting in the 8,500-seat worship facility known as the World Dome. Reportedly, it was built without any need for financing. In 2012, he leased Loews Paradise Theater in the Bronx for a new church location in New York. Currently, he has a membership of about 30,000, not counting his broadcast ministries. A large portion of the church's budget is spend on buying television time on cable networks such as Black Entertainment Television. Dollar is best known for his promotion of Prosperity Theology in addition to the more traditional Pentecostal gifts of the Holy Spirit, such as the gift of healing and speaking in tongues. A common theme in his sermons and programs is that believers who tithe and live according to the Scripture will become financially prosperous. He points to his own prosperity as evidence, which he has frequently been criticized for. He dresses expensively, owns two Rolls Royce cars, a private jet, and high-end real estate. In 2007, he and five other televangelists were the subjects of an investigation by the Senate Finance Committee, which asked for his financial information. Dollar contested the investigation, arguing that the IRS would be the proper government entity to examine the finances of a church, not the Senate Committee on Finance. He and three others refused to cooperate, and the probe concluded without charges in 2011. World Changers Ministries holds largely to traditional Pentecostal beliefs, with the concentration on Prosperity Theology. The church believes in the Trinity doctrine. Jesus, the Son of God, was fully human and fully God during the incarnation. He was crucified, died, and was buried. On the third day, He rose from the dead and later ascended into heaven, where He sits at the right hand of the Father. The Bible was written and inspired by God, and faith is a practical response to the Word of God. Having faith, believers are baptized in water in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The church believed in the indwelling and baptism of the Holy Spirit, with the evidence of speaking in tongues. The church also believes in divine healing. World Changers Ministries believes that the local church is the place of membership where believers are called by God to receive the Scriptures on a consistent basis, with resulting spiritual growth. Tithes and offerings should be freely given to the local church, and Christians should also give to the poor, the sick, the homeless, and others who are in need. The focus of this category is on the World Changers Church International, also known as World Changers Ministries, on Creflo Dollar, his spouse Taffi Dollar, or other leaders of the church. Also appropriate for this category are other organizations owned or operated by Creflo Dollar or the church, including the Creflo Dollar Ministerial Association, Creflo Dollar Ministries, Arrow Records, or any other affiliated ministries, programs, associations, or corporations. Informational sites whose chief topics are Creflo Dollar or his ministries may also be submitted to this category, whether complimentary or oppositional. Recommended Resources Creflo and Taffi Dollar’s ministries include World Changers Church International, as well as Creflo Dollar Global Missions, Taffi Dollar Missions, World Changers New York, World Changers Fellowship Churches, Creflo Dollar Ministerial Association, and Arrow Records. Links to each of these are provided, and its partnerships, testimonials, Bible studies, and an online bookstore offering books and other products. https://creflodollarministries.org/ The Marriage Ministry of the World Changers Church International in College Park, Georgia provides marriage services, beginning with those who are engaged and newlyweds, up to those who have been married fifty years or longer, focused on supporting the local married community. Membership information is featured, along with a calendar of events, contacts, and informational videos and reading materials. http://wccimarriageministry.org/ The mission of World Changers is to equip students to effectively share the gospel. Groups are generally housed in local schools, churches, or college facilities, where breakfast, lunch, and dinner are provided. Its projects are outlined, including its adult chaperone requirements, policies for college-age youth, and senior high projects. Employment and volunteer opportunities are outlined, and a blog is included. https://worldchangers.lifeway.com/ Founded by Creflo Dollar in 2011, World Changers Bible School offers an Associate Degree in Christian Studies, a Certificate in Biblical Studies, and the ability to audit courses without credit. Its degree and certificate requirements, degree objectives, admissions policies, tuition and fees, and an online and on-campus academic calendar are presented. Tuition payments or contributions may be made online. http://worldchangersbibleschool.org/ World Changers Church International Founded by Creflo Augustus Dollar, who continues to lead the church, World Changers is based in College Park, Georgia. Its church campuses are shown on a map and may be found by city and state. For each, service times, a calendar of events, office hours, and contacts are posted. Other resources include a history of the church, introductions to the pastors, and an overview of its ministries, Bible studies, and devotionals. http://www.worldchangers.org/
