=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[An Armenian Supernova in Mexico: Astronomer Marie Paris Pishmish]
The astrophysics program that she founded in 1955 has remained in place at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and her critical role in enriching the field of astronomy has helped to fashion today’s Mexico into a center for astrophysical research.
URL: http://www.ianyanmag.com/an-armenian-supernova-in-mexico-astronomer-marie-paris-pishmish/

[Paris Pishmish (1911 - 1999) - Biography - MacTutor Index]
In 1933 Pishmish became one of the first women to graduate in Mathematics and Astronomy from the Faculty of Science of Istanbul University. After graduating, ...
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Pishmish/

[Eclipsed No More: Women Astronomers You Should Know]
Mar 19, 2024 · Dr. Paris Pismis, widely considered the first professional astronomer in Mexico worked at the Tacubaya National Observatory and in 1955 founded the astrophysics program at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.
URL: https://blogs.loc.gov/headlinesandheroes/2024/03/eclipsed-no-more-women-astronomers-you-should-know/

[Birth of Paris Marie Pishmish (January 30, 1911) - Blogger]
Jan 30, 2017 · The astrophysics program that she founded in 1955 has remained in place at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and her critical role in enriching the field of astronomy has helped to fashion Mexico into a center for astrophysical research.
URL: https://thisweekinarmenianhistory.blogspot.com/2017/01/birth-of-paris-marie-pishmish-january.html

[Mexican Women Astronomers. Tradition and Challenges]
Mar 31, 2025 — Paris Pişmiş was the first woman to obtain a PhD at the ... National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM, 2022). This protocol ...
URL: https://revista.unaminternacional.unam.mx/en/nota/9/astronomas-mexicanas-tradicion-y-desafios


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [An Armenian Supernova in Mexico: Astronomer Marie Paris Pishmish] ---
An Armenian Supernova in Mexico: Astronomer Marie Paris Pishmish Dr. Marie Paris Pishmish, a Turkish-Armenian astronomer who played an instrumental role in establishing the study of modern astronomy in Mexico, embodies a kind of woman who has been embraced wholeheartedly in her profession and regarded as a leader in her field by men and women alike. Despite the prevailing norms of her era, she succeeded in becoming a leading voice in the field of astronomy. Marie Paris Pishmish (also spelled Pişmiş) was born Mari Soukiassian in 1911. Raised in Constantinople, Pishmish spent her childhood and adolescence in an aristocratic environment where education was a high priority. Her father, Soukias, was the great-grandson of Mikayel Amira Pishmish, a member of a powerful class of Armenian commercial and professional elites in Ottoman Constantinople called the amiras. He served as the Minister of Finance under Sultan Abdul-Aziz and was very active in the Armenian community. Pishmish’s mother, Filomen, was the niece of Mateos Izmirlian, the Patriarch of Constantinople from 1894 to 1908, and later Catholicos of All Armenians from 1908 until his death in 1910. At a time when most Armenians were fleeing Turkey, Marie Paris Pishmish was advancing quickly in her studies. She attended an Armenian elementary school and continued on to the American School for Girls, an elite English-medium private school in Constantinople. Here, she discovered an interest in mathematics, and convinced her parents to let her pursue it at Istanbul University. Initially her parents were concerned about allowing their daughter to study at a predominately male institution, but they eventually agreed, and Pishmish became one of the first women to graduate from Istanbul University in 1933. Immediately after graduating, Pishmish began teaching mathematics and astronomy at an Armenian boys’ high school in Istanbul. She continued to teach throughout her doctoral program in astronomy at Istanbul University, and graduated with her doctorate in 1937. Her advisor, noted German astronomer Erwin Finlay-Freundlich, arranged a postdoc for her at the Harvard College Observatory beginning the following year. World War II intervened and, what was designed to be a one-year program became three and a half years working with some of the greatest minds in astronomy and astrophysics. It was during her time at Harvard that she met a Mexican mathematics student by the name of Felix Recillas. She began by tutoring him in German, but by 1941 they were married and about to embark on a partnership that would produce two children–Elsa, an astrophysicist; and Sevin a mathematician–and revolutionize the field of astronomy in Mexico. In the 1940s, there were no professionally trained astronomers in Mexico, but interest in astronomy had been growing and observatories were being built. In 1948, Pishmish accepted a position as an astronomer at the Tacubaya Observatory, one of these new institutions in need of expertise and innovative ideas. The Tacubaya Observatory was affiliated with the National Autonomous University of Mexico in Mexico City, where Pishmish taught for over 50 years. At the National Autonomous University of Mexico, Pishmish was involved in all stages of the development of astronomical studies in Mexico, from writing the first modern astronomy and astrophysics curricula to acquiring the best, state-of-the-art technology for Mexican observatories. She was also devoted to teaching and training new generations of scientists, some of whom went on to make great contributions to astronomy and other scientific disciplines. Many of her most notable accomplishments are in her research. Over the course of her career, she wrote over 120 scientific articles on various aspects of astrophysics and the study of galaxies. Proof of her great commitment to her field can be seen in the sky where 22 stellar clusters bear her name. Her career was also marked by research trips, conferences and visiting professorships at universities and research institutions around the world, including NASA in Houston, the Middle East Technical University in Ankara and the Byurakan Observatory in Byurakan, Armenia where she was invited on the invitation of the eminent Soviet Armenian astronomer Viktor Hambardzumyan. In her memoir, Reminiscences in the Life of Paris Pişmiş: A Woman Astronomer, she recounts with particular enthusiasm her visits to Armenia where she delighted in being able to communicate in her native language. Her fluency in Armenian, Turkish, French, English, German, Italian, and Spanish enabled her to share her research with scientists working in a variety of different contexts and learn from research being conducted in many corners of the globe. Marie Paris Pishmish passed away in 1999, but her legacy has endured. been enduring. The astrophysics program that she founded in 1955 has remained in place at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and her critical role in enriching the field of astronomy has helped to fashion today’s Mexico into a center for astrophysical research. Photos from Pishmish’s 1998 memoir, “Reminiscences in the Life of Paris Pismis” Jennifer Manoukian is a recent graduate of Rutgers University where she received her B.A. in Middle Eastern Studies and French. Her interests lie in Western Armenian literature and issues of identity and cultural production in the Armenian diaspora. She also enjoys translating and has had her translations of writer Zabel Yesayan featured in Ararat Magazine. She can be reached at jsmanoukian@gmail.com This post is part of a special series in honor of International Women’s Day


--- [Paris Pishmish (1911 - 1999) - Biography - MacTutor Index] ---
Marie Paris Pishmish de Recillas Quick Info Constantinople (now Istanbul), Turkey Mexico City, Mexico Biography Paris Pishmish, the daughter of Soukias and Filomen Soukiassian, was born Mari Soukiassian. We note that Pishmish, sometimes written as Pismis, is a simplified version of Pişmiş. This is in fact a Turkish title, meaning "well ripe", which was given to a great-grandfather Mikayel Pishmish who was Minister of Finance in Turkey. Mikayel Pishmish was a member of the amira class, a small group of elite, wealthy Ottoman Armenians who were important in the Armenian commercial activities of the Ottoman Empire. Paris's mother Filomen was the niece of Mateos Izmirlian (1845-1910) who was primate of the diocese of Egypt (1886-1890), Patriarch of Constantinople (1894-1896) and then Catholicos of All Armenians (1908-1910). Paris, therefore, was born into a wealthy, elite family who had a high regard for education.Paris began her education at an Armenian elementary school where she became fluent in Armenian and Turkish. While at this school she showed her love of music, learning to play the piano from the age of seven, and of painting. She then entered the Üsküdar American Academy for Girls where she did her middle and high school studies. This Academy had been founded in 1876 but had moved to a new site just before Paris began studying there. She said in an interview in 1994 [22]:- It was an American school - the American Mission Board - that was trying to make itself known in what are now called Third World countries, and Turkey was one of them.This school provided a good quality education with teaching in English. She was taught French at this school but her favourite subjects were German and mathematics. She had a reason to want to learn German, she loved singing Franz Schubert's Lieder. In a strange way, her love of mathematics came, at least in part, from the belief that it was too difficult for girls to learn. She thought [22]:- If Madame Curie could do theoretical work, why not me?Pishmish was keen to go to Istanbul University. We note that although the city of Constantinople did not become Istanbul until 1930, the University of Constantinople was renamed Istanbul University in 1922. Her parents where totally opposed to her studying mathematics or sciences at university, believing this was not right for a girl. They told her that girls of her age should be having fun or looking for a husband. Pishmish said she cried and cried until her parents gave in, and in 1930 she began studying mathematics in the Faculty of Sciences of Istanbul University. In 1933 Pishmish became one of the first women to graduate in Mathematics and Astronomy from the Faculty of Science of Istanbul University. After graduating, she taught mathematics and astronomy at the Getronagan High School in Istanbul. This school was a boy's Armenian High School established in 1886 and Pishmish taught in Armenian at this school. She next taught in Turkish at the Anatolian High School for Girls in the Kandilli district of Istanbul, and after that she taught in English at the American Academy in the Scutari district of Istanbul. In 1933 Hitler came to power in Germany and passed laws to prevent Jewish professors teaching in universities. Many of the leading German scientists were Jewish and Kemal Ataturk, President of the Republic of Turkey, saw that he could modernise the Turkish university system by offering them professorships in Istanbul University. Three of those who accepted the offer were Erwin Finlay Freundlich, Richard von Mises and Hilda Geiringer von Mises. In 1934 Pishmish registered as a D.Sc. student with Freundlich as her main advisor but with support also from von Mises. She explained in the 1994 interview the major change that took place in Istanbul University in 1933-34 [22]:- All the teachers were retired and replaced by teachers who came from Germany, they were escaping from Hitler. The University was filled 90% with foreign professors. Well-known astronomers also came, and I worked with some of them, like Finlay Freundlich, who, unlike my previous teachers, had done research. With great enthusiasm, I began to work with Freundlich, I learned with him the astrophysics that I did not know and I translated his courses from English to Turkish; meanwhile I perfected my German.From 1935 she worked as an assistant at the Istanbul University Observatory, serving as an interpreter into Turkish from French, English and German. She translated into Turkish lectures on Infinitesimal Geometry delivered in French by Hilda Geiringer von Mises and lectures on Astrophysics delivered in English by Finlay Freundlich. Pishmish undertook research for her doctorate which, given the limited instruments in the Istanbul Observatory, involved a mathematical theoretical study. She defended her thesis The Rotation of the Galactic Star System and the K-Term in June 1937. Freundlich advised Pishmish to apply for a Fellowship at Harvard University in the United States and he strongly supported her application. She was awarded a Radcliffe fellowship and travelled to Harvard University in 1938 to undertake post-doctoral research. In the summer of 1939 she attended lectures at the Harvard Observatory Summer School delivered by Jan Oort (1900-1992), Findlay Freundlich and Svein Rosseland (1894-1965). For 1939-40 she was awarded an Edward C Pickering Fellowship and a report of the work she undertook is given in Annie Jump Cannon's report [5]:- Since 1938 she has been engaged in researches relating to stellar photometry, variable stars, and galactic clusters. As a part-lime assistant in the Milton Bureau, the large undertaking for the systematic study of variable stars, sponsored by the Milton Fund of Harvard University, she is observing changes in the brightness of certain variables and discussing her results. Perhaps the most interesting subject of her present study is the well-known double cluster in the "sword hand" of Perseus, lettered h and Chi Persei. She finds that previous investigators of these clusters have treated them together assuming, as it were, that they are of the nature of twins. This point of view is, in her opinion, questionable. Therefore she is studying the two clusters separately, considering such properties as the luminosity, the variations of mean colour, density, and brightness according to the distance from the centre. She concludes that the assumption of their twin cluster is not sustained, but she adds, "there is need of further observational work on these clusters from the point of view which I emphasise."On Thursday, 23 March 1939, The Boston Globe reported on a meeting in Radcliffe College [20]:- Yesterday's program included a talk by Miss Paris Pishmish, a Turkish student from the University of Istanbul working under a Radcliffe fellowship at the Harvard Observatory.Félix Recillas Juarez was a Mexican who had been employed to assist in setting up an observatory in Tonantzintla, Puebla. Recillas was more interested in mathematics than astronomy but he went to Harvard to take astronomy and mathematics courses. He decided that learning German would be advantageous and Pishmish, who had perfected her German while working for a doctorate advised by Finlay Freundlich, offered to help him. Recillas spoke about meeting her at Harvard [21]:- She had beautiful eyes and above all she was very fine and highly educated. At Harvard, where I met her in 1941, I began to realise that the great astronomers Harlow Shapley, Sergi and Cecilia Gaposchkin, and Donald Menzel looked up to her and respected her, as did the physicists Manuel Sandoval Vallarta and Carlos Graef Fernández in Mexico, and of course the astronomers Luis Enrique Erro and Guillermo Haro, great promoters of science in our country.Recillas and Pishmish married around the end of 1941. They had two children Elsa Recillas Pishmish (born 1942) and Roberto Sevín Recillas-Pishmish (born 1943). We will give some details about these children's careers later in this biography. The new Mexican National Astrophysical Observatory near the small Aztec village of Tonanzintla was formally dedicated on 17 February 1942. About a week before the dedication the telescope mounting and tube arrived on a truck from Harvard driven much of the way by Recillas. Both Recillas and Pishmish were present at the dedication of the Tonanzintla Observatory and at the Astrophysical Congress that was held in Puebla to inaugurate the Tonantzintla Astrophysical Observatory. Nicholas Ulrich Mayall (1906-1993) writes in [11] about the staff of the new Observatory:- The staff of the new observatory is headed by the Director Señor Luis Enrique Erro, who was for many years Secretary of the Mexican Embassy in Washington. ... Dr Carlos Graef, the Subdirector, received a part of his scientific training at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where his interest in astronomy naturally led him to study at the Harvard College Observatory. Harvard has also contributed in large measure to the astronomical education of the other two members of the staff: Professor Félix M Recillas, and Mrs Paris Pishmish Recillas, who received her Doctor's degree at the University of Istanbul.It is worth noting that of these four members of staff, only Pishmish was a astronomer with a doctorate in astronomy. In fact she was the first person, man or woman, to be employed as an astronomer in Mexico who had an astronomy doctorate. It is not surprising that the Observatory took some time to get the equipment working well particularly since most of those employed had no practical experience. In 1944 Recillas resigned his position at the Observatory and went to Princeton to study for a Ph.D. in mathematics. Pishmish remained at the Tonantzintla Astrophysical Observatory until January 1946 when she went to study at the Princeton University Observatory, joining her husband. Pishmish described how the Tonantzintla Observatory had by this time overcome initial difficulties and leading research was being carried out there [23]:- Around 1946 we witnessed the beginning of a golden age for Tonantzintla. The Observatory was finally building a new reputation. Problems related to our galaxy as well as in other galaxies were attacked. Extremely distant high-luminosity stars, high-temperature stars with bright spectral lines, planetary nebulae and galactic nebulae were discovered: all of them accessible from the Tonantzintla sky. The systematic investigation of variable stars of the T-Tauri Type was promoted. The remarkable discovery of the first star flare in Orion was also made. And soon Tonantzintla took the lead in the discovery and study of star bursts in other regions as well. I would like to highlight the remarkable work of Guillermo Haro in these studies. Finally, Erro was reaping the fruit of his hard work after years of uncertainty. It is fair to say that the Schmidt Chamber of Tonantzintla is the one that has given a much higher performance than others of the same type and size.Let us note the personal details that Pishmish gave on entering the United States on 30 January 1946 on her way to the Princeton University Observatory: Height, 5 ft 5 in; Complexion, dark; Hair, black; Eyes, brown. While in the United States, she also spent long periods at Yerkes Observatory in Wisconsin, north of Chicago. In 1948 her husband Recillas was awarded a mathematics degree by Princeton and the family went to Mexico City where Pishmish and Recillas were both employed at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM). Although based in Mexico City, Pishmish still made many visits to the Tonantzintla Astrophysical Observatory over the following years. Her daughter, Elsa writes [23]:- When my mother left Tonantzintla for the Tacubaya National Astronomical Observatory in 1948, the first astronomy courses began at UNAM. However, she continued her research by observing and using the pool of plates that was increasing at the National Astrophysics Observatory of Tonantzintla. For several years she came for long seasons. On those occasions, my little brother and I accompanied her and ran around the slopes of the Tonantzintla hill, trying not to disturb the sleep of the astronomers who slept during the day to cover her observation shifts at night. Of course, we didn't always manage to stay calm and on more than one occasion we woke up some late-night astronomer!Recillas spent the year 1951-52 in Paris at the Henri Cartan Seminar at the École Normale Supérieure. Pishmish and her two children flew from Mexico City to New York on 12 November 1951. Meeting up with her husband, who was already in the United States, the whole family flew to Paris on 16 November 1951. Back in Mexico, she continued to teach and undertake research. Although she spent much time at the Observatory, she did little in the way of observation herself, rather she was interested in theoretical work using the data others had found. Elena Poniatowsk writes in [21] about seeing her at the Observatory:- I personally met Paris Pishmish in Tonantzintla. Her bungalow was the only one planted with flowers. Flowers in the windows, flowers around the walls, flowers in glass jars inside the house. Her look, in fact, was very beautiful because it was intense and because she wanted to encompass everything. She herself was very much like a flower: very well groomed, very coquettish, bathed in dewy water, her nails scrupulously clean, her neatness almost from an operating theatre. She played the piano, sang, and when another sang she immediately sat down at the piano to accompany them, improvising the melody from hearsay. She liked to dance and she did it very well: the gallants took her out and she danced until very late. ... Like Einstein's violin, she was fascinated by music and she said that a scientist should know everything, mainly arpeggios and cadences. Some chamber music ensembles even came to play at her house and she offered them snacks.Her scientific contributions were both in teaching and in research. When she returned to Mexico in 1948 she began to give formal astronomy courses at the Tacubaya Observatory, associated with the UNAM. Beginning in 1955 she created new courses within the Faculty of Sciences of the UNAM. She taught a variety of courses, for example courses on stellar interiors, on kinematics, and on the dynamics of stellar systems, but her favourite course was Galactic Astronomy. She was an inspirational teacher and many of today's Mexican astronomers were taught by her. She firmly believed that the fact that she was an active researcher was an important factor in her teaching [21]:- Extremely generous with her knowledge, Dr Pishmish gave herself entirely to her students. She was enthusiastic about her classes and took her students to observe Tonantzintla. They slept in the Institute's bungalows, in front of the volcanoes; they participated in their teacher's work, they shared her life for three or four days, and this coexistence confirmed them in their vocation or made them lean towards poetry (which has a lot to do with science).The exceptional quality of her teaching led to her receiving the National University Award in the area of Teaching in Exact Sciences in 1989. Let us quote from [14] concerning her research contributions:- She contributed, with her studies of stellar populations, to explain the origin of the spiral structure of galaxies by means of density waves. Her most relevant contributions include the discovery of three globular clusters and twenty open clusters. Several of these clusters bear her name. She proposed an explanation for the structure of spiral galaxies and spent a good part of her years studying the motion of stars within clusters and galaxies. She also studied the effect of interstellar absorption of stellar associations on the large-scale distribution of stars in the galaxy. In 1972, Pishmish introduced Fabry-Perot interferometric methods in Mexico to be able to carry out studies of velocity fields of galactic nebulae.During her career, Pishmish published over 130 articles on astrophysics topics; they appear under the name Paris Pişmiş. Her first papers are The Period-Luminosity and the Period-Spectrum Relations of Cluster-Type Cepheids (1945), An Investigation on Differential Galactic Rotation (1945), The Reflection Effect in Eclipsing Binary Stars (1946) and The Spectroscopic Binary Delta Orionis (1950). From the mid 1950s onwards she published papers in Spanish as well as in English. The topics of her early papers continued to be the main areas of her research, particularly the development of spiral arms in galaxies. In 1986 she published the survey paper Kinematics of spiral galaxies. An overview which has the following Abstract:- The kinematics of spiral galaxies are reviewed with special emphasis on rotation curves, the flat maxima and undulations of these curves in late types of spirals. The two dimensional velocity fields from the HI21-cm line as well as from optical lines support the finding that the maxima and minima of the rotation correspond reasonably well to arm and interarm regions respectively. It is argued that all galaxies show nuclear activity of some sort. The energetics of the activity cover a very wide range; from the most active QSO's down to "normal" galaxies. NGC4736 is given as an example having mild nuclear activity at its nucleus which gives rise to a tight nuclear spiral. Such cases fall into a class which I call MAGN as against AGN (M stands for mildly). Finally, it is suggested that the morphological sequence of galaxies is essentially fixed by the global parameters with which a galaxy gets started. It appears that two independent initial parameters underlie the morphological sequence of galaxies. One such parameter is the total mass which doubtless is the most important one. The second parameter, unspecified as yet, may be the total kinetic energy or any other parameter. The remaining parameters will be derivable from the two independent ones. This writer believes that the main features both morphological and dynamical are essentially determined by global initial conditions although consequences of interaction between galaxies in some cases cannot be ruled out.At the time this survey was written, black holes were postulated as the energy source at the centre of galaxies but there were other competing theories. It is now well established that the 'nuclear activity' discussed by Pishmish is the result of a black hole. The Institute of Astronomy was established at the UNAM in 1974 and Pishmish was the first president of the College of Academic Staff of the Institute of Astronomy of the UNAM (1974-1977). She loved to travel and made many trips to the observatories of Greenwich in England, and Mount Palomar in the United States. She attended congresses receiving invitations to NASA in Houston. She gave courses in Heidelberg, in Vienna, in Uppsala, in Athens, in Ankara, in Canberra, in Bonn, in Cambridge, in Buenos Aires, in The Hague, in Tenerife, at the Instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias, and in Palma de Gran Canaria, in Biurakan, where she spoke in Armenian, and in Paris, where she spoke in French. Another important contribution to astronomy in Mexico was her editorial work. She edited the Boletín de los Observatorios de Tonantzintla y Tacubaya from 1966 to 1973, and she was a founding editor of Revista Mexicana de Astronomía y Astrofísica since it began publication in 1974 and continued to edit it for twenty years. She was an active member of the International Astronomical Union, and headed the Mexican delegation to all its general assemblies from 1958 to 1994. She edited the International Astronomical Union Colloquium, Observational Parameters and Dynamical Evolution of Multiple Stars 33, the Proceedings of the Colloquium held in Oaxtepec, Mexico, 13-16 October 1975. Pishmish received numerous honours, for example she was given a title of Honorary Astronomer of the Institute of Astronomy of the UNAM in 1985 and in the following year she was awarded a title of Honorary Doctor of Mexico University. We promised some details of her two children. Elsa Recillas Pishmish (born 1942) was awarded a physics degree by the UNAM in 1968, a Master's Degree in Astronomy by the University of Sussex, England, in 1971, a Master's Degree in Physics from UNAM in 1983 and a Ph.D. from the UNAM in 1988. She became a professor in the Mexican National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics and Electronics. She married the astronomer Carlos Cruz-González, and their daughter Irene Cruz-González also became an astronomer. Sevín Recillas-Pishmish (born in Puebla in 1943) was awarded a Bachelor's Degree in Mathematics from the Faculty of Sciences of the UNAM in 1964, and then went to Brandeis University in the United States where he received a Master's Degree in 1967 and a Ph.D. for his thesis A relation between curves of genus 3 and curves of genus 4 in 1970. MathSciNet lists 27 papers by Sevín Recillas-Pishmish all on algebraic geometry. He died in 2005. In 1998 Pishmish published her autobiography Reminiscences in the Life of Paris Pishmish: a Woman Astronomer which she wrote in collaboration with her grandson Gabriel Cruz González. She continued to attend seminars and, despite her vision and hearing both failing, gave a seminar at the age of 88 [10]:- Marie Paris Pishmish passed away on 1 August 1999. Her positive influence turned her into an effective role model, especially for young women. At the time of her death, 25 per cent of the eighty astronomers working at the Institute of Astronomy of the National Autonomous University were women. References (show) - C Alemañy Castilla, Marie Paris Pişmiş, científica que acercó la Astronomía a México, Mujeres con ciencia (23 March 2022). https://revista.iaa.csic.es/content/paris-pişmiş-madre-de-la-astronomía-mexicana - S Armenio, Marie Paris Pishmish, la astrofísica armenia que brilló en México, Soy Armenio (8 October 2022). https://soyarmenio.com/noticias-de-armenia/marie-paris-pishmish-la-astrofisica-armenia-que-brillo-en-mexico/ - T Baronian, Beyond Motherhood: Powerful Armenian Women in Science, The Armenian Weekly (19 August 2020). - P Cabañas Díaz, Otras Inquisiciones: Grandes maestras: Paris Pishmish, almomento.mx (22 March 2022). https://almomento.mx/otras-inquisiciones-grandes-maestras-paris-pishmish/ - A J Cannon, Report of the Astronomical Fellowship Committee, Annual Report of the Maria Mitchell Association 38 (1940),11-13. - E Carrasco Licea and A Carramiñana Alonso, Paris Pismis, la primera astrónoma mexicana, Diario Síntesis (24 August 1999). https://www.inaoep.mx/~rincon/paris.html - H Gómez Vázquez, Ciencia y tecnología en México, EstePaís (17 April 2009). https://archivo.estepais.com/inicio/historicos/169/12_galaxia3_ciencia%20y%20tecnologia_gomez.pdf - D Hoffleit, Two Turkish Lady Astronomers, The Journal of the American Association of Variable Star Observers 33 (2) (2005), 127-129. https://adsabs.harvard.edu/full/2005JAVSO..33..127H - J Manoukian, An Armenian Supernova in Mexico: Astronomer Marie Paris Pishmish, ianyan (24 March 2013). http://www.ianyanmag.com/an-armenian-supernova-in-mexico-astronomer-marie-paris-pishmish/ - V Matiossian, Birth of Paris Marie Pishmish, This Week in Armenian History (January 30, 1911). http://thisweekinarmenianhistory.blogspot.com/2017/01/birth-of-paris-marie-pishmish-january.html - N U Mayall, Mexico dedicates a new observatory, Publications of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific 54 (319) (1942), 117-122. - A Mickaelian, Paris Pishmish - 100, In the World of Science 2 (2011), 28-29. - S Mohan, Words Matter: Paris Pishmish - Armenian Astronomer, Girls for Science (17 March 2021). https://www.girlsforscienceinc.org/post/words-matter-paris-pishmish-armenian-astronomer - Paris Pishmish, Mexican Astronomer, Astronomía Astrónomos Universo (20 February 2021). https://www.astrojem.net/paris-pishmish-mexican-astronomer-the-mother-of-mexican-astronomy/ - Paris Pishmish (1911-1999), Armenian Astronomical Society. https://www.aras.am/FamousAstronomers/pishmish.html - Paris Pishmish (1911-1999), She is an Astronomer. https://www.sheisanastronomer.org/index.php/history/paris-pismis - Paris Pismis, Mexican Astronomer, Salient Women (17 October 2020). https://www.salientwomen.com/2020/10/17/biography-of-paris-pishmish-mexican-astronomer/ - Paris Pişmiş, Physics Today (30 January 2019). https://physicstoday.scitation.org/do/10.1063/pt.6.6.20190130a/full/ - Paris Pismis (30 de enero, 1911 - 01 de agosto, 1999), Taya Beixo. http://www.tayabeixo.org/biografias/pismis.htm - Paris Pishmish, The Boston Globe (23 March 1939), 8. - E Poniatowsk, La doctora en astronomía Paris Pishmish, La Jornada (9 August 1999). https://www.jornada.com.mx/1999/08/09/cul-elena.html - C del Puerto, Paris Pişmiş. La astrónoma turca con pasaporte mexicano, Sociedad Española de Astronomía (2018). https://www.sea-astronomia.es/sites/default/files/pismis_paralajes_2018.pdf - E Recillas, Un poco sobre mi madre. Paris Pishmish, la madre de la astronomía mexicana, Saberes y Ciencias (12 February 2017). https://saberesyciencias.com.mx/2017/02/12/un-poco-sobre-mi-madre-paris-pishmish-la-madre-de-la-astronomia-mexicana/#google_vignette - Recillas family, ancestry.com - S Torres Peimbert, Obituary: Paris Marie Pişmiş, 1911-1999, Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 31 (5) (1999), 1607-1608. - S Torres Peimbert, Obituary: Paris Marie Pişmiş, Revista Mexicana de Astronomia y Astrofisica 35 (1999), 231-232. - S Torres Peimbert, Paris Marie Pişmiş (1911-1999), Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society 31 (4) (1999). - S Torres-Peimbert and J Masegosa, Paris Pişmiş: madre de la astronomía mexicana, Ciencia en Historias, Revisita Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía. https://revista.iaa.csic.es/content/paris-pişmiş-madre-de-la-astronomía-mexicana Additional Resources (show) Other websites about Paris Pishmish: Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update June 2023 Last Update June 2023


--- [Eclipsed No More: Women Astronomers You Should Know] ---
“First, no woman should say, ‘I am but a woman!’ But a woman! What more can you ask to be?” – Maria Mitchell (1818-1889), American Astronomer Meteor showers, comets, eclipses, and other celestial events have captured human interest and imagination for thousands of years. Astronomical phenomena have long been speculated over in the press, and curiosity in these phenomena have led us to better understand our world. Throughout history women have played a pivotal role in the field of astronomy and yet have rarely received the recognition they deserve. As in many fields, women’s work has often been eclipsed by their male counterparts or attributed to the institution they were affiliated with. As astronomy became professionalized, women were generally denied the required formal education to be considered a professional astronomer. Whether or not they were able to obtain a degree in the field, women’s stellar contributions to astronomy should not be overlooked. In honor of women’s history month, let’s learn about some lesser-known achievements of women in astronomy throughout the years. Women have made many important discoveries and historic firsts in the field of astronomy. The first woman known to have discovered a comet was Maria Margarethe Kirch in 1702, but credit was initially given to her husband. Caroline Herschel (Germany) discovered 8 comets between 1786 and 1797, and yet newspapers often described Caroline as her brother’s assistant and argued that she, “had no ambition but to serve him.” The first American of any gender to detect and map a comet was Maria Mitchell in 1847, and the comet came to be known as Miss Mitchell’s Comet. In 1865, Maria Mitchell was appointed as a Professor of Astronomy and the Director of the Vassar College Observatory. One of Mitchell’s assistants at Vassar was Margaretta Palmer, who was later hired by the Yale University Observatory and in 1892 became one of the first women admitted to the Yale Graduate School. The subject of Palmer’s doctoral research was Miss Mitchell’s comet. Women’s ability to practice astronomy professionally grew as more educational institutions began to gradually accept them as workers, scientists and students. Women at the Observatory The popularity of the film Hidden Figures drew attention to the women working as computers in the Harvard College Observatory. According to Harvard, the observatory began hiring women around 1875, but there were women who volunteered even earlier. An 1893 article described how Nina (Williamina) Fleming supervised, “…a corps of trained women assistants” at the Harvard Observatory. During her time at Harvard, Fleming discovered many stars and became the first known person to discover a white dwarf. Deaf astronomer Annie Jump Cannon continued Fleming’s work at Harvard of classifying stars, and would go on to record “more than a quarter million twinklers,” or roughly 350,000 stars. Building on the earlier classification work of Fleming, Annie Jump Cannon completed the Harvard Spectral Classification scheme, which was officially adopted by the International Astronomical Union in 1922 and is still in use today. Harvard wasn’t the first or only observatory to employ women. Alice Lamb worked as an assistant astronomer and was partially in charge of the Washburn Observatory in Wisconsin. Dr. Paris Pismis, widely considered the first professional astronomer in Mexico worked at the Tacubaya National Observatory and in 1955 founded the astrophysics program at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. The U.S. Naval Observatory hired Isabel M. Lewis and Eleanor A. Lamson long before women were even allowed to enroll at the U.S. Naval Academy. The Yerkes Observatory employed over one hundred women, and Dr. Nancy Roman conducted research there during her time as a graduate student at the University of Chicago. Nancy would go on to work for NASA and become known as the “Mother of Hubble” for her tireless work in getting approval for the Hubble Telescope to be built. NASA found a way to honor her incredible efforts, and the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope is currently set to launch in 2027. Whether they were running an observatory, chasing an eclipse, or simply receiving an education, women in astronomy have defied conventional gender roles to shape and expand the field. Can’t wait for the next celestial event? Why not pass the time by reading “What Science Discovered from the Great Eclipse” by Isabel M. Lewis? We also recommend diving in to Annie Jump Cannon’s series of articles detailing the science behind the total solar eclipse of 1932, Part One, Part Two and Part Three. Discover more about the history of women in astronomy in historic newspapers on Chronicling America, or get in touch with our librarians and collection specialists via Ask a Librarian. Explore More: - Enjoy more Library of Congress Blog posts about astronomy, like Chasing Shadows: Eclipses and Eclipse Observations in the Library of Congress Collections — Inside Adams - Take a tour of the Maria Mitchell Observatory in the Historic American Buildings Survey/Historic American Engineering Record/Historic American Landscapes Survey Collection - Search loc.gov to discover photographs of observatories from all over the world Sources Consulted: - Margaretta Palmer ‘1887. Vassar Encyclopedia, Distinguished Alumni. - Maria Mitchell: America’s First Female Astronomer. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, March 1, 2023. - Women at the Harvard College Observatory. Wolbach Library, Harvard University. - Wisconsin at the Frontiers of Astronomy: A History of Innovaiton and Exploration. Peter Susalla and James Lattis, University of Wisconsin-Madison. - Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope. NASA. - Women at Yerkes. University of Chicago.


--- [Birth of Paris Marie Pishmish (January 30, 1911) - Blogger] ---
Like her colleague Alenoush Terian in Iran, Paris Marie Pishmish played an instrumental role to establish the study of modern astronomy in Mexico. She was born Marie Soukiassian in Constantinople on January 30, 1911. Her father Soukias was the grandson of Mikayel Pishmish, a member of the amira class that had an important role as the Armenian commercial and professional elite in the Ottoman Empire, who was Minister of Finance under Sultan Abdul-Aziz (1861-1876), and her mother Filomen was the niece of Mateos Izmirlian, Patriarch of Constantinople (1894-1896) and Catholicos of All Armenians (1908-1910). The high society environment where she was raised put high priority in education. She first attended an Armenian elementary school and continued on to the Üsküdar American Academy for Girls, an elite private school in Constantinople, where she discovered her interest in mathematics. Pishmish became one of the first women to graduate in Mathematics and Classical Astronomy from the Science School of Istanbul University in 1933. Pishmish taught mathematics and astronomy at the Getronagan High School in Istanbul, and worked as an assistant at the Observatory throughout her doctoral program in astronomy. She received her doctorate in 1937. Her advisor, the noted German astronomer Erwin Freundlich, arranged a postdoctoral fellowship for her at Harvard in 1938. After the beginning of World War II, she became an assistant astronomer at Harvard College Observatory (HCO), a position she held from 1939 to 1942. She also met Felix Recillas, a Mexican student of mathematics sent to study astronomy, whom she married in 1941. Mexico was building a modern astronomical observatory in Tonantzintla, near Puebla, inaugurated in 1942 with an international congress. Felix and Paris Pishmish-Recillas also attended. The thirty-one-year-old Armenian scientist, the first professional astronomer that Mexico had, was hired to work at the observatory, where she worked until 1946. She had two children, Elsa Recillas Pishmish (an astrophysicist) and Sevin Recillas Pishmish (a mathematician, 1943-2005), and spent two years with internships in Princeton and in Chicago. In 1948 Pishmish accepted a position as an astronomer at the Tacubaya National Observatory, affiliated with the National Autonomous University of Mexico in Mexico City, where she taught for over fifty years. The astrophysics program that she founded in 1955 has remained in place at the National Autonomous University of Mexico and her critical role in enriching the field of astronomy has helped to fashion Mexico into a center for astrophysical research. Pishmish was involved in all stages of the development of astronomical studies in Mexico, from writing the first modern astronomy and astrophysics curricula to acquiring the best, state-of-the-art technology. She was also devoted to teaching and training new generations of scientists, some of whom went on to make great contributions to astronomy and other scientific disciplines. The university recognized her efforts with the award of a Ph.D. honoris causa and the Science Teaching Prize. Many of her most notable accomplishments are in her research. Over the course of her career, she wrote over 120 scientific articles on various aspects of astrophysics and the study of galaxies. Twenty-two stellar clusters bear her name. She also fostered the publication of Mexican astronomical journals. From 1966 to 1973 she edited Boletín de los Observatorios de Tonantzintla y Tacubaya. She was also founding editor of Revista Mexicana de Astronomía y Astrofísica since its inception in 1974. Pishmish was also an active member of the International Astronomic Union, and headed the Mexican delegation to all its general assemblies from 1958 to 1994. Her career was also marked by research trips, conferences and visiting professorships at universities and research institutions around the world, including the Byurakan Observatory in Armenia, where she was invited by the eminent Soviet Armenian astronomer Viktor Hambardzumyan. In her memoir, Reminiscences in the Life of Paris Pişmiş: A Woman Astronomer (1998, co-written with her grandson Gabriel Cruz González), she recounted with particular enthusiasm her visits to Armenia where she delighted in being able to communicate in her native language. Marie Paris Pishmish passed away on August 1, 1999. Her positive influence turned her into an effective role model, especially for young women. At the time of her death, 25 per cent of the eighty astronomers working at the Astronomy Institute of the National Autonomous University were women.


--- [Mexican Women Astronomers. Tradition and Challenges] ---
Mexican Women Astronomers. Tradition and Challenges Yilen Gómez Maqueo Chew, Antígona Segura Peralta and Itziar Aretxaga The National Astrophysical Observatory (later to become the National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics, and Electronics) was inaugurated in 1942 in Tonantzintla, Puebla. This observatory aimed to lead Mexico to contribute to modern astronomy, but at that time there were no professionally trained people in the field in the country. The two most influential people in Mexican astronomy were an engineer, Luis Enrique Erro, and a lawyer, Guillermo Haro. Although both have been acknowledged for their contributions to astronomy, it was the arrival of a Turkish astronomer of Armenian descent that would start the school of astronomy in Mexico. Paris Pişmiş was the first woman to obtain a PhD at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Istanbul. Even though it was a time of openness in Turkey, under Ataturk’s leadership, she had to insist on convincing her parents to study an undergraduate and a graduate degree in mathematics (Del Puerto, 2018), where she met the man she would marry, Mexican mathematician Félix Recillas. They both arrived in Mexico in 1942. Paris worked at the Tonantzintla Observatory until 1946, when he left again for the United States on a Guggenheim Fellowship. She returned to Mexico in 1948, this time to Mexico City to work at UNAM, where she began to teach those who would become the first generations of professional astronomers in Mexico. According to Elena Poniatowska (1999), Recillas encouraged Paris to devote herself only to teaching because it was an activity that would leave her time to raise their children, instead of doing the research work she was passionate about, and which included traveling to attend conferences. She devoted herself to both teaching and research and made numerous trips to present her scientific findings. Her fields of research were the kinematics of galaxies, ionized hydrogen regions, the structure of star clusters, and planetary nebulae. In an interview in the early 1990s, Paris stated that she had no affinity with feminists and that sometimes women justify their inability by saying that they are not given opportunities because they are women (Rosado, Segura & Piccinelli, 1996): she had to make her way through many situations, starting with her family, to be allowed to study, and missing opportunities such as when she had to return from a fellowship at the Yerkes Observatory—where she was collaborating with great astronomers of that time—because her two young children had been left in the care of a friend. She even had to leave the Tonantzintla Observatory due to differences with Luis Enrique Erro (Recillas Pishmish, 2005). As a professor at UNAM’s Faculty of Sciences, she especially encouraged women by telling them about the possibility of traveling and meeting interesting people. She took her undergraduate students to make astronomical observations at the Tonantzintla Observatory and gave them the unique opportunity to participate in the generation of astronomical knowledge (Poniatowska, 1999; Dultzin-Hacyan, 2001). Gradually, UNAM’s Institute of Astronomy (IA)—created in 1967—began to receive former students trained by Paris who had completed doctoral studies abroad as academic staff. Her alumnae, researchers Silvia Torres and Deborah Dultzin, acknowledge that it was the influence of Paris what was behind the greater participation of women in astronomy in Mexico at that time when compared to other countries (Torres-Peimbert, 1999; Dultzin-Hacyan, 2001). The effect of her early leadership was reflected in the boosting of the careers of the first generations of women astronomers in Mexico [see box]. Three Outstanding Astronomers Trained in Paris Pişmiş’s Classrooms Dr. Silvia Torres was the first Mexican woman to obtain a PhD in Astronomy, in 1969, at the University of California in Berkeley (Trimble & Weintraub, 2022). She was also the second woman to be the head of UNAM’s Institute of Astronomy (IA), and the first Mexican ever to serve as president of the International Astronomical Union (IAU), from 2015 to 2018. The IAU groups more than 13 thousand professional astronomers from 92 countries, and aims to safeguard astronomy in all its aspects, including research, education, dissemination, and development through international cooperation. Dr. Gloria Koenigsberger was assigned as the first director of the IA in 1990 (she was the fifth person to hold the position since 1948,. She became the first woman director of a scientific research institute at UNAM. Dr. Susana Lizano was appointed director of the then Center for Radioastronomy and Astrophysics, and its transformation into the Institute of Radioastronomy and Astrophysics was approved under her leadership in 2015. She entered the National College in 2018, being the first and, to date, only woman in that collegiate body in the exact sciences field—which has had 22 members of this specialty since its founding in 1943. She became in 2020 the first woman astronomer and the second woman scientist appointed president of the Mexican Academy of Sciences. These three astronomers continue to be important leaders in the Mexican astronomical and scientific community. RECENT EVOLUTION OF WOMEN POPULATION IN RESEARCH In order to study how the career of female researchers has progressed in recent years, we adopted those included in the 2024 registry of the National System of Researchers (SNII) of the Secretariat of Science, Humanities, Technology, and Innovation (SECIHTI) as a sample. We selected all people who declare their field of knowledge as related to astronomy—astrophysics, astronomy, other disciplines of astronomy, Earth and space sciences with the discipline of space sciences, physics with the discipline of cosmology and cosmogony, optical astronomy—and those whose field of knowledge appears in the registry as “no information”, but who work in institutes and departments of astronomy and astrophysics. The sample attributable to the disciplines of astronomy, astrophysics, space sciences, and cosmology is equal to 295 people, divided into 219 men and 76 women (25.8 percent). In terms of SNII levels, the distribution of women is: 16 at C level (39 percent of SNII members in this field of knowledge and at this level), 32 at level 1 (27.6 percent), 13 at level 2 (14.9 percent), nine at level 3 (24.3 percent) and six at Emeritus level (42.9 percent). The percentage of women decreases systematically from level C to level 2, it stabilizes near the average number of women in the field at level 3 and exceeds the average at emeritus level, where women from the first generations of astrophysicists in the country concentrate. However, the scissors effect in the proportions (whereby the difference in favor of men widens as they move up the ladder) remains at a common level for the careers of women researchers in the world. A smaller proportion of women researchers is observed (figure 1) in levels where higher recognition happens, except for the “Emeritus” (highest) level, where the first generations of astronomy researchers are. Statistically, the reduction of the proportion of women is only significant for level 2 (with 99.53 percent probability) and keeps the same value as the first time it was reported in the last decade (Aretxaga, 2014). Fraction of Mexican female astronomers in the National System of Researchers (SNII) in 2024 and distribution by level. Error bars show a 68% confidence interval. MEASURES FOR GENDER EQUALITY IN SCIENCE Aware that the career progression of women scientists is slowed down by sociocultural conditioning factors, Mexican institutions have implemented some measures that intend to make up for pregnancy and family care time, which traditionally fall on women and to which the decline in the proportion of women at the highest levels of academic recognition is usually attributed. However, sociological studies indicate that women without family responsibilities also experience lower recognition than their male colleagues (Urry, 2009). Both in research institutions and in the SNII, extraordinary evaluation periods are contemplated for people with exceptional family situations such as pregnancy, illness, or family care. Although these measures extend the evaluation period for pregnant women or those with recent family responsibilities, it is expected that they will recover and compensate productivity for their category in the extended period, so that their annual general grade point is comparable to that of those who have not had the family circumstances described. Extension periods in evaluations are from one to three years—depending on the institution and the call—while the maximum impact that procreation has on a research career, estimated by the researchers themselves internationally, is about ten years on average and can reach up to 18 years in cases of offspring with disabilities, while for men it is less than one year (Pommier, 2021). This clearly has an impact on women’s career progress compared to men’s. It has been found at UNAM that female academics spend on average 1.7 times the time on domestic and care work per week than male academics do (CIGU, 2023). This is known as a double workday and it has the effect that it is typically women who both have less access to free time (INEGI, 2019) and it is their careers that slow down. In recent years, efforts have been made to combat gender inequality in astronomy in Mexico through new hires in some national institutions. It has been a strategy to enrich the scientific quality of the institution, although it is also a matter of justice and human rights. Some studies have shown that using the generic masculine in Spanish in calls for applications for professions where the majority of those in practice are men has a real effect in perpetuating gender inequality, while the use of inclusive language encourages more women to apply for available positions (Diaz et al., 2023). Inclusive language is a recommendation at federal level that is still being implemented in society. In 2020, after years of pressure from the academic community, the IA established a single guideline that stated that a maximum number of two male candidates would be hired in a call for positions during the hiring process for four research positions. This resulted in the hiring of two men and one woman; the fourth position remained vacant because the selected female researcher did not accept the offer. In addition, in the 2023 hiring process, training was provided to the collegiate body in charge of making so that biases could be minimized both in the call for applications and in the evaluation. This backing was provided by gender equality expert Rubén Hernández, a nonbinary individual, from UNAM’s Gender Equality Head Office (CIGU). In 2025, UNAM’s Institute of Nuclear Sciences (ICN) published its guidelines for academic hiring (see https://www.nucleares.unam.mx/pdf/lineamientos_contratacion_icn2025.pdf), which include all parts of the institutional process, from the definition of the hiring profile to the implementation of actions to ensure equality and non-discrimination, the call for applications, conflicts of interest, evaluations, the evaluation committee, the shortlist, the final selection, the offer, and commitment to equality for those hired. These efforts at UNAM have been ad hoc and have not yet been institutionalized in a comprehensive policy, although they are steps in the right direction that our community should adopt. WOMEN STUDENTS AND GENDER EQUALITY Progress in responding to gender violence in universities and the creation of policies to achieve substantive equality is the result of the continuous actions of students, academics, and other workers who have demanded these changes in several ways. Although the feminist struggle was vindicated since the seventies in university spaces, the last two decades have been fundamental for the changes we see today. During these years, collectives such as the No Están Solas (You Are Not Alone) Network were formed, which started in 2011 at UNAM’s Faculty of Philosophy and Literature, to later develop actions in other entities. Acoso en la U (Harassment at the U) is another one, a blog created in 2017 with the Technological Institute of Monterrey and the University of Monterrey women students’ testimonials, which later expanded to receive testimonies from all over the country (Cerva Cerna, 2020). Numerous collectives have emerged to respond to the violence experienced by female students in university spaces, organizing assemblies, discussions with authorities, tendederos (symbolic use of the clothesline to expose harassment perpetrators), or escraches (public denunciations of specific individuals) (Posadas Díaz & Posada Velázquez, 2023). During 2019, in just four months there were actions by organized women in 23 UNAM entities, such as strikes and protests (Ruiz & Pigeonutt, 2020). One of the cases that caught most attention was the aggression suffered by a female ICN graduate student by a male postgrad student who was also an assistant in physics courses at the Faculty of Sciences. The case was reported to both university and judicial authorities in 2014. The male student was expelled from the university to later be reinstated by the Honor and Justice Commission of the University Council, arguing that the aggression had occurred outside the university (Barreto, 2018). The student who reported the case was supported by the No Están Solas Network to make the case public both within university spaces with demonstrations, and outside with interviews in diverse media and posts on social media. Although UNAM has generated the General Guidelines for Gender Equality (UNAM, 2013), these had little effect on university policies or attention to cases of gender-based violence (Mingo & Moreno, 2014). In 2016, UNAM generated another couple of tools to contribute to substantive equality: the Agreement Establishing Institutional Policies for the Prevention, Attention, Sanction and Eradication of Cases of Gender-Based Violence at the National Autonomous University of Mexico, and the Protocol for Attention to Cases of Gender-Based Violence at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM, 2022). This protocol received claims over aggressions that happened outside the university campus as long as the accused person belonged to the university community, but it did not address complaints for which more than one year had passed since the aggression. The protocol was updated in 2019 to better respond to these cases, although the UNAM structures that have historically covered up for aggressors have been more difficult to dismantle, as evidenced by the tendederos and public testimonials by women students in the last decade. In 2020, the students’ fight succeeded in modifying Article 95 of UNAM’s General Statute to include gender-based violence as a serious cause of responsibility among members of the university community. That was also the year the CIGU was created, which has been one of the most important agents for mainstreaming substantive equality policies at UNAM. However, the institutionalization of efforts to achieve gender equality is still not enough. Cases such as those of Ranulfo Romo (Gutiérrez Jaber & Pérez Ortega, 2020) and Jean-Philippe Vielle Calzada (Rodríguez Mega, 2021) show that harassment within the scientific community happens in full view of a whole population that minimizes or actively covers it up, hindering or blinding the scientific career of young female researchers and students. These cases show the most extreme part of the violence experienced by women in science, but along with it there are other structural forms of violence that interfere with their progress in academic spaces. CULTURAL CHANGE: REDEFINING SCIENTIFIC EXCELLENCE It has been widely demonstrated in literature (see Bear & Williams Wolley, 2011; National Academy of Sciences et al., 2007) that diverse and inclusive groups find more creative solutions and are also more productive. However, achieving substantive gender equality should not focus on making a better use of available human resources by not wasting the labor of 50 percent of the world’s population. We need to redefine what excellence in science means as the current concept is masculinized (European Commission, 2004, 2012; Heilman et al., 2004). As stated by theoretical physicist Chandra Prescod-Weinstein, science is a collective human endeavor. The current scientific culture continues to reinforce the values of cisgender, heterosexual, white, able-bodied, Western men over those of the rest of people. As a result, as of 2021, out of the 962 Nobel prizes, only six percent had been awarded to women and more than 80 percent of the winners have been men from the United States and Europe. Inequality has real effects on technological developments and scientific knowledge. For example, car seat belts have been designed for men, hence women are more likely to be seriously injured in car accidents (Forman et al., 2019). In medicine, 700 different diseases take longer to be diagnosed in women because biomedical research is mainly based on the white male body (Juarez-Herrera & Cairo et al., 2021). As a knowledge-creating institution, science must value every person, every woman, every non-binary person as a whole individual and not by what the institution can get from them: not by how many ideas they have, how many experiments they perform, or how many papers they publish. Given that inequality in science is a structural problem (National Academy of Sciences et al. 2007), we need to rebuild the structures of science to enable all people to inquire, research, and create knowledge in an equal, fair, healthy, and inclusive environment. To achieve this redefinition of excellence, each person who is part of the creation of scientific knowledge must contribute to substantially change the scientific culture. This culture change requires active and ongoing engagement at all levels (AAS, 2015; LGBT+ Physicists, 2013). To reach its full potential, science needs not only women, but people with all different backgrounds, gender identities, gender expressions, ethnicities, skin tones, sexual orientations, abilities, religions, nationalities, and their connections to local and global communities. There is no doubt that the work required has already begun and is underway. We need more intersectional approaches to inclusion and equality in science. Intersectionality is a framework for describing how someone’s individual identities intersect and influence how they are viewed, understood, and treated, sometimes with aggravating effects (Crenshaw, 1989). The experience of a Black physicist woman in the United States is not the same as a White female physicist’s or a White male physicist’s (see, for example, the case of Dr. Reva Kay Williams, 2004). In all history there have been fewer than 150 Black women physics PhDs in the United States (see https://aawip.com/). In 2017, there were about 1800 physics PhDs awarded in the United States; 20 percent were awarded to women, less than two percent to Black Americans, and only one to a Black woman (Porter & Ivie, 2019). For other countries we don’t even have those statistics. In Mexico, the INEGI national census reported for the first time, in 2020, that Afro-Mexicans make up about two percent of the population. We have no information on Black women scientists in Mexico or those belonging to indigenous peoples. Efforts to achieve gender equality in science must also include the fight for the inclusion of all identities. It is the duty of those of us in the scientific community to work to recognize and challenge the systemic barriers and exclusionary practices that further marginalize people from science and from the creation of knowledge. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE COMMUNITY Different organizations and working groups that look out for equality have made recommendations to alleviate the talent drain from communities that have been historically underrepresented in science. Mentoring for young researchers who have recently joined research institutes has been recognized as a tool to optimize their efforts to establish themselves within academic culture. Mentoring is usually performed by more experienced department members who do not directly benefit from the scientific career progression of younger members (AAS, 2015). It is recommended that all members of personnel selection or evaluation committees attend training workshops on unconscious biases in evaluation to mitigate their impact on minority populations. It is recommended, whenever possible, to establish double-blind evaluations where neither the evaluated nor the evaluator knows who the other one is while the evaluation is conducted. This is why large infrastructures request proposals for the use of resources not to have the proponent group being identified. In practice, for researcher hiring and evaluation processes, double-blind evaluation is not possible. However, training that shows the existing biases in evaluations, such as disparity in recommendation letters, feedback for students, invitations to seminal events, access to funds, among others, can help to reduce the existing inequity. It is recommended for the evaluation criteria to be explicitly stated in the calls for proposals to make the evaluation process fairer. In addition, it is recommended to explore ways for the hiring of both to take place in a close or joint location through inter-institutional cooperation mechanisms or in shared positions (AAS, 2015). Statistics on the insufficient career progression of women in science show the unquestionable effect of discrimination (Evangelista García et al., 2012). To analyze the progress of inclusion it is necessary to focus on statistical data on the general population of women astronomers, astrophysicists, and cosmologists, without limiting ourselves to citing cases of highly recognized women who—although they are examples to follow—do not necessarily reflect a fair field for all people in science. A change in the collective imagination about the status of women in science has to be based on the collective rather than on individuality. In order to analyze the community’s future progress, statistics for the research community broken down by gender and ethnicity are needed, as the drain of ethnic minority women is traditionally greater than that of White women. Actions in favor of a work environment that facilitates work–life balance would also help to maintain the talent of those who have a high care load in the field, such as setting meetings and seminars up at times that are compatible with those of the dependents. Likewise, the use of inclusive language both at the institutional and personal levels helps to make visible a group that has traditionally been invisible in our communities (AAS, 2015). Yilen Gómez Maqueo Chew is a researcher at UNAM’s Institute of Astronomy. She uses astronomical observations to understand how stars and their planetary systems form and evolve. She is the project manager in Mexico and head of the SAINT-EX project. Antígona Segura Peralta is a researcher at UNAM’s Institute of Nuclear Sciences. She studies the variables that affect the livability of planets around other stars and the atmospheric compounds that can be used to detect life on other planets. Itziar Aretxaga is a researcher at the National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics, and Electronics who specializes in the fields of extragalactic astrophysics and cosmology. She is the scientific director of the TolTEC Camera for the Large Millimeter Telescope Alfonso Serrano and the director of the International Schools for Young Astronomers of the International Astronomical Union. References American Astronomical Society (AAS, 2015). “Inclusive Astronomy 2015 Recommendations (or the “Nashville Recommendations”)”. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JipEb7xz7kAh8SH4wsG59CHEaAJSJTAWRfVA1MfYGM8/edit?tab=t.0. Barreto (2016) Bear, Julia B.; Williams Woolley, Anita (2011). “The role of gender in team collaboration and performance”. Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 36(2). DOI 10.1179/030801811X13013181961473. Cerva Cerna, Daniela (2020). “Activismo feminista en las universidades mexicanas: la impronta política de las colectivas de estudiantes ante la violencia contra las mujeres”. Revista de la Educación Superior 49(54). DOI 10.36857/resu.2020.194.1128. CIGU (2023). Estudio diagnóstico sobre la corresponsabilidad de los cuidados en la comunidad académica de la UNAM. México: Coordinación para la Igualdad de Género, UNAM. https://coordinaciongenero.unam.mx/2023/10/estudio-diagnostico-sobre-la-corresponsabilidad-de-los-cuidados-en-la-comunidad-academica-de-la-unam/. Comisión Europea (2004). Gender and excellence in the making. https://op.europa.eu/es/publication-detail/-/publication/ce10dfeb-4e36-49ed-a9ec-b2182c8b986f. Comisión Europea (2012). Meta-analysis of gender and science research. Synthesis report. DOI 10.2777/75176 Crenshaw, Kimberle (1989). “Demarginalizing the Intersection of Race and Sex: A Black Feminist Critique of Antidiscrimination Doctrine, Feminist Theory and Antiracist Politics”. University of Chicago Legal Forum 1989. https://chicagounbound.uchicago.edu/uclf/vol1989/iss1/8. Del Puerto, Carmen (2018). “Paris Pişmiş. La astrónoma turca con pasaporte mexicano”. Paralajes. La revista del instituto de Astrofísica de Canarias no. 1 2018. https://www.iac.es/system/files/documents/2019-02/Paralajes_Mujeres_en_Astro_1.pdf. Diaz, Ana Maria; Salas, Luz Magdalena; Piras, Claudia, y Suaya, Agustina (2023). What Job Would You Apply to? Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, IDB Working Paper Series No. IDB-WP-01417. https://publications.iadb.org/publications/english/viewer/What-Job-Would-You-Apply-to-Findings-on-the-Impact-of-Language-on-Job-Searches.pdf. Dultzin-Hacyan, Deborah (2001). “Paris Pişmiş 1911–1999”. Astronomy & Geophysics 42(4). DOI 10.1093/astrog/42.4.4.36. Evangelista García, Angélica; Tinoco Ojanguren, Rolando, y Tuñón Pablos, Esperanza (2012). “Género y ciencia en México”. Ciencia 63(8). https://www.revistaciencia.amc.edu.mx/images/revista/63_3/PDF/GeneroyCiencia.pdf. Forman, Jason; Poplin, Gerald S.; Shaw, C. Greg; McMurry, Timothy L.; Schmidt, Kristin; Ash, Joseph, y S¿unnevang, Cecilia (2019). “Automobile injury trends in the contemporary fleet: Belted occupants in frontal collisions”. Traffic Injury Prevention 20(6). DOI 10.1080/15389588.2019.1630825. Gutiérrez Jaber, Inés, y Pérez Ortega, Rodrigo (17 de marzo de 2020). “Top neuroscientist leaves Mexican university as former trainees allege sexual harassment”. Science ( Science Insider News). https://www.science.org/content/article/top-neuroscientist-leaves-mexican-university-former-trainees-allege-sexual-harassment. Heilman, Madeline E.; Wallen, Aaron S.; Fuchs, Daniella, y Tamkins, Melinda M. (2004). “Penalties for Success: Reactions to Women Who Succeed at Male Gender-Typed Tasks”. Journal of Applied Psychology 89(3). DOI 10.1037/0021-9010.89.3.416. INEGI (2019). Encuesta nacional sobre uso del tiempo (ENUT) 2019. https://www.inegi.org.mx/programas/enut/2019/. Instituto de Astronomía (IA, 1998). Informe 1990-1998. México: UNAM ( https://www.fis.unam.mx/~gloria/informe_IA_1990_1998.pdf). Juárez-Herrera y Cairo, Lucero Aída; Juárez Muñóz, Irina Elizabeth, y Gómez Maqueo Chew, Aline (2021). “El análisis sexo/género en la enseñanza/aprendizaje de la medicina. El caso de las enfermedades cardiovasculares”. Investigación en educación médica 10(37). DOI 10.22201/fm.20075057e.2021.37.20262. LGBT+ Physicists (13 de marzo de 2013). “Supporting LGBT+ Physicists: A Best Practices Guide for Departments”. http://lgbtphysicists.org/files/BestPracticesGuide.pdf. Mingo, Araceli, y Moreno, Hortensia (2015). “El ocioso intento de tapar el sol con un dedo: violencia de género en la universidad”. Perfiles Educativos 37(148). DOI 10.22201/iisue.24486167e.2015.148.49318. National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering & Institute of Medicine (2007). Beyond Bias and Barriers: Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering. Washington: The National Academies Press. DOI 10.17226/11741. Pommier, Mamta (2021). “Survey on Working Conditions of Women in Astronomy”. Ensemble. Women in Astronomy Working Group Magazine 1. https://www.iau.org/static/science/scientific_bodies/working_groups/122/IAU-WinA-Ensemble-issue1-Dec2021.pdf. Poniatowska, Elena (9 de agosto de 1999). “La doctora en astronomía Paris Pishmish”. La Jornada. https://www.jornada.com.mx/1999/08/09/cul-elena.html. Porter, Anne Marie, e Ivie, Rachel (2019). “Women in Physics and Astronomy, 2019”. AIP. https://ww2.aip.org/statistics/womenin-physics-and-astronomy-2019#. Posadas Díaz, Sandra, y Posada Velázquez, Ire (2023). “De estudiante a actorA colectivA: Las organizaciones feministas, su lucha contra la violencia de género en la UNAM y el cambio de juego debido a la pandemia. Boletín Onteaiken 35. https://onteaiken.com.ar/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/35-08.pdf. Recillas Pishmish, Elsa (AÑO). “Paris Pişmiş Acem”. En: TÍTULO. Lugar: Editorial. https://www.uam.mx/e_libros/biografias/PISMIS.pdf Rodrígez Mega, Emiliano (5 de octubre de 2021). “Cuando lo profesional se vuelve personal”. Science. DOI 10.1126/science.acx9283. https://www.science.org/content/article/renuncie-un-sueno-varias-mujeres-acusan-un-afamado-genetista-de-plantas-por-acoso. Rosado, Margarita; Segura, Antígona, y Piccinelli, Gabriella (1996). “La mujer en la ciencia. Un caso particular: las astrónomas mexicanas”. Política y Cultura 6, primavera. http://www.redalyc.org/articulo.oa?id=26700609. Ruiz, María, y Pigeonutt, Vania (1 de febrero de 2020). “Cuatro meses de movilizaciones feministas en toda la UNAM”. Pie de Página. https://piedepagina.mx/cuatro-meses-de-movilizaciones-feministas-en-toda-la-unam/. Torres-Piembert, Silvia (1999). “Paris Marie Pişmiş (1911–1999)”. Bulletin of the AAS 31(4). https://baas.aas.org/pub/paris-marie-pismis-1911-1999. Trimble, Virginia, y Weintraub, David A. (2022). The Sky Is for Everyone. Princeton University Press. DOI 10.2307/j.ctv269fw3v. UNAM (7 de marzo de 2013). “Lineamientos Generales para la Igualdad de Género en la UNAM. Gaceta UNAM. http://acervo.gaceta.unam.mx/index.php/gum10/article/view/71772/71737. UNAM (17 de noviembre de 2022). “Protocolo para la atención integral de casos de violencia por razones de género en la universidad nacional autónoma de México”. Gaceta UNAM. https://www.defensoria.unam.mx/web/documentos/protocolo-atencion-integral-de-violencia-por-razones-de-genero.pdf. Urry, Meg (2009), “Women in (European) Astronomy”. En: Röser, Siegfried (Ed.), Reviews in Modern Astronomy: Formation and Evolution of Cosmic Structures. Alemania: Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. DOI 10.1002/9783527629190.Williams, Reva Kay (2004). “A Word from a Black Female Relativistic Astrophysicist: Setting the Record Straight on Black Holes”. DOI 10.48550/arXiv.physics/0404029.
