=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[64-year-old dentist injured in Mumbai's Bhau Daji Lad lift crash dies ...]
May 10, 2019 — MUMBAI: Dr Arnavaz Havewalla, a 64-year-old dentist who met with an accident in a lift at the Bhau Daji Lad Museum on April 28 and suffered ...
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/mumbai/64-year-old-dentist-injured-in-mumbais-bhau-daji-lad-lift-crash-dies/articleshow/69260103.cms

[Prominent south Mumbai dentist, hurt in Bhau Daji Lad Museum lift crash ...]
May 10, 2019 · A prominent south Mumbai dentist, who was injured in an elevator crash at the Dr Bhau Daji Lad Museum (BDL) on April 28, died on Thursday at Masina Hospital. Dr Arnavaz Havewalla, 63, suffered a pelvic fracture in the mishap, in which her daughter Hera, 28, was also injured.
URL: https://parsikhabar.net/news/prominent-south-mumbai-dentist-hurt-in-bhau-daji-lad-museum-lift-crash-dies/19850/

[Museum, lift vendor blame each other after freak mishap kills dentist]
May 10, 2019 — Top Mumbai dentist Arnavaz Havewala, 63, died on Thursday after being injured in elevator collapse on April 28. Museum, lift vendor blame ...
URL: https://www.mid-day.com/mumbai/mumbai-news/article/mumbai-bhau-daji-lad-musuem-lift-vendor-blame-each-other-after-freak-mishap-kills-dentist-20911167

[Prominent south Mumbai dentist, hurt in Bhau Daji Lad Museum lift crash ...]
May 10, 2019 · A prominent south Mumbai dentist, who was injured in an elevator crash at the Dr Bhau Daji Lad Museum (BDL) on April 28, died on Thursday at Masina Hospital. Dr Arnavaz Havewalla, 63, suffered a ...
URL: https://mumbaimirror.indiatimes.com/mumbai/cover-story/sobo-dentist-hurt-in-bdl-museum-lift-crash-dies/articleshow/69259784.html

[Dentist hurt in Byculla museum lift crash dies - The Hindu]
May 10, 2019 — A 63-year-old dentist who sustained serious injuries in a lift collapse at Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum in Byculla last month, died on Thursday at Masina Hospital.
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/dentist-hurt-in-byculla-museum-lift-crash-dies/article27085086.ece


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [64-year-old dentist injured in Mumbai's Bhau Daji Lad lift crash dies ...] ---
MUMBAI: Dr Arnavaz Havewalla, a 64-year-old dentist who met with an accident in a lift at the Bhau Daji Lad Museum on April 28 and suffered multiple fractures, died in Masina Hospital on Thursday. Her daughter, who was also in the lift and sustained injuries, was discharged from hospital. Havewalla was a dentist with the Masina Hospital. "The lady was with a relative in the lift when it crashed," Abhinash Kumar, zonal DPC, said. "There was blood clotting in her lungs. She had suffered fractures. " The police had registered a case under Section 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. Now they said they would add Section 304 (negligence causing death). They said no arrest had been made yet. Tasneem Mehta, director at the Bhau Daji Lad Museum, said that on the day of the accident Havewalla and her daughter were using the lift to go from the the first floor to the ground floor. "The door was not completely closed and the lift went down a few inches. They tried to open the door and pressed keys. During this the emergency brake failed. Our staff also tried to bring the lift back up and pressed the external button. But it did not respond. The lift went 10 ft down and she lost her balance and fell. She sustained fractures. Once she was rescued, our staff took her in an ambulance to the Masina Hospital where she was under special care of doctors for 10 days," she said. Mehta said Havewalla died of cardiac arrest. She said the death raised questions about the medical care at the hospital. She said the lift was checked by the vendor responsible for maintaining it and it had been functional for 11 years. "It happend due to a mechanical error," she said. The museum, outside Byculla zoo, is owned by the BMC. There is a tripartite agreement for restoration and care with the Indian National Trust and Jamnala Bajaj Foundation. The Masina Hospital, in a statement issued late on Thursday, said that Dr Havewalla was brought to the hospital after she had suffered a severe pelvic fracture and injury on heels following a fall from a height. "She was admitted into the ICU and later shifted to the ward as her condition had stabilised. She was being monitored by an orthopaedic and general physician," the statement said. The hospital said that despite the best possible treatment, she succumbed to her injuries on Thursday. "She was being treated without surgery. Her condition had improved but it deteriorated later," medical director Vispi Jokhi said. Havewalla was sent back to the ICU before she died in the morning. A source said cause of death was "acute pulmonary thromboembolism following fracture of pelvis and both heels".


--- [Prominent south Mumbai dentist, hurt in Bhau Daji Lad Museum lift crash ...] ---
No content


--- [Museum, lift vendor blame each other after freak mishap kills dentist] ---
Top Mumbai dentist Arnavaz Havewala, 63, died on Thursday after being injured in elevator collapse on April 28 The Gamadia Colony polyclinic where Dr Arnavaz Havewala consulted at Less than a fortnight since celebrated dentist Arnavaz Havewala, 63, and her daughter, Hera, 24, were involved in a horrific accident in the lift at the Bhau Daj Lad museum housed inside the Byculla zoo, Havewala passed away of a cardiac arrest at Masina Hospital in Byculla on Thursday morning. Museum staff said that the incident occurred on April 28 afternoon when Dr Havewala and her daughter were coming down from the library on the first floor to the documentation centre on the ground floor. "The lift is meant for the disabled or the elderly. After they entered the lift, the door was not closed properly and the lift got stuck. The staff members tried to get them out through the first floor but were unable to. They were talking to them to keep them calm while trying to figure out how to get them out, when the lift suddenly collapsed," said a staff member adding that the lift did not hit the bottom but fell to around 10 feet. The staff said that the distance between the two floors is around 30 feet. The staff member added that there was no lift operator at the time of the incident. The museum staff said an ambulance was called and they were taken to Masina hospital, as that was Dr Havewala's wish. Tasneem Mehta Hospital says Masina Hospital released a statement after her death saying, "The patient, Dr Arnavaz Havewala, after she suffered a severe pelvic fracture and injury on her heels due to a fall from a height on April 28, 2019. She was admitted into the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and later shifted to the ward where she was being monitored by an orthopaedic and general physician. The hospital provided the best possible treatment available, however, unfortunately, she succumbed to her injuries today" (Thursday, May 9). When this newspaper visited the hospital on Thursday afternoon, Dr Vispi Jokhi, chief executive officer refused to say any more, simply adding, "She was fine but then took a turn for the worse. Sometimes, things can go wrong. I do not wish to speculate." Hera, too, had a fractured leg and a doctor from Masina said she had undergone surgery the same day of the incident. The doctor who has been working with Dr Havewala (senior dentist at Masina) said that around 5 am on Thursday, Dr Havewala's condition worsened. "She suffered a deep vein thrombosis which led to a cardiac arrest and around 7.30 am we heard that she had passed away," he said. He added that he had visited Dr Havewala after she was admitted and she had recounted her experience. "She said that she had felt sceptical about entering the elevator and she had also mentioned that she had planned to get in touch with the MLC of the area to complain against the museum authorities," said Havewala's colleague. Also Read: Mumbai: Construction of fountain causes trouble to visitors of Bhau Daji Lad museum Nobody's talking When this reporter visited Hera Havewala there was a steady stream of visitors to see her and offer condolences. A distraught Hera, who was moving with the help of a walker, said, "I do not wish to comment right now." A few relatives in the room also said they did not wish to say anything. Hera is supposed to be discharged from the hospital today (Friday). A hearse was standing at the door of the hospital to take the body to the Doongerwadi morgue. The family was awaiting the arrival of Arnavaz's son, Danesh, who is studying in Australia. Also Read: Pyar Ke Papad actor Pratish Vora's two-year-old daughter killed in a freak accident Silence now It was evident though that the family and hospital, too, is tight-lipped about the incident. A man who did not identify himself but claimed to be Hera's lawyer, called this reporter late in the evening, saying, "I am the lawyer and if you publish any rumours then there is going to be trouble for you all." When told that is precisely the reason why we were trying to contact Hera for her version, this lawyer said, "We do not want you to publish anything at all." The hearse at Masina hospital on Thursday afternoon Meanwhile, members from the Indian Dental Association (IDA) were at the hospital on Thursday afternoon as they wanted to arrange a condolence and memorial meeting for the well-known dentist. "She has left a huge void in the dentistry circles in the city," they said. Dr Devidas Jatkar, president, IDA, Mumbai, said, "Dr Havewala was to take over as president IDA Mumbai from 2020. This is an annual term and she was president-elect for the next year. She was an excellent professional and was a regular at most conferences, too." Parsi chat groups on social media were abuzz with shock and outrage. Dinshaw Mehta, former chairman Bombay Parsi Panchayat (BPP) said, "The community wants answers and wants those responsible to compensate her children who are left without an earning member in the family." Dec '18 Month when the lift was last serviced Bhau Daji Lad Museum says Tasneem Mehta, hon director and managing trustee, BDL, said, "The hydraulic lift is part of disability access and had been operational for 11 years without any complaints. The accident is terrible. The vendor, Expert Equipments, is supposed to visit every three months. But this time there was a delay and our staff members had been calling them." The museum staff added that the lift was last serviced in December 2018. "It is not our fault. If there were problems in the lift, Expert Equipments should have flagged the issue earlier. We have filed a police complaint against them. We have ensured Dr Havewala got the best private care at Masina and have been footing the medical bills as well." A museum staff member said that they have already paid around R2.5 lakh towards medical expenses for both Dr Havewala and her daughter. Mehta added, "The hospital is responsible for the patient in their care. How did a pelvic fracture result in a cardiac arrest and that too 10 days after the accident? This raises questions about the hospital's management of the patient." When asked why the museum staff didn't inform the BMC, Mehta said that were only two staff members that day and they were busy rushing the injured to the hospital. Mehta confirmed that she had sent a letter of apology to Dr Havewala while she was hospitalised at Masina. She said that it was the right thing to do and it also stated that her medical expenses would be covered. Vendor report Based on the vendor's report filed on May 2: 'The accident happened because the car door had got stuck on the first floor Landing Level.' The report further stated, "As the car door was stuck at the Landing Level, the entire load of the lift was resting on the Car door. Once it gave away the entire lift came down with the bang." The vendor also pointed out that since the platform was stuck at the landing level, the lift's chain did not loosen due to which the emergency brake didn't get activated. The vendor also pointed out that the incident could have been avoided if there was a trained operator in the lift and suggested that the system be overhauled and the cabin be renovated. Despite calls and messages, Arvind Menon of Expert Equipments, could not be reached for a comment. Civic body's side When mid-day reached out to the civic authorities on Thursday, 10 days after the accident, they said they had not received any intimation about the accident or the injuries on April 28. A senior civic official pointed out that the museum staff should have ideally contacted the disaster management department or even the local ward officer. "In the BMC, there is a hierarchy in place and as a fiduciary custodian of a government property, it is their responsibility to inform us about the incident the day it happened. This also brings into question the manner in which they are maintaining the museum," said the official. Civic chief, Ajoy Mehta said, "I will need to look into the details of the incident and will then decide on a further course of action." While Tasneem Mehta said she had written to the civic chief to inform him about the incident two days after it had happened, Mehta said that he hadn't seen the letter. Also Read: Mumbai: 7-year-old boy crushed to death in freak elevator accident in Vashi Catch up on all the latest Crime, National, International and Hatke news here. Also download the new mid-day Android and iOS apps to get latest updates


--- [Prominent south Mumbai dentist, hurt in Bhau Daji Lad Museum lift crash ...] ---
Advertisement Prominent south Mumbai dentist, hurt in Bhau Daji Lad Museum lift crash, dies Lata Mishra & Chaitanya Marpakwar | Mumbai Mirror | May 10, 2019, 06:00 IST Dr Arnavaz Havewalla; (R) The dentist’s daughter, Hera, suffered multiple fractures A prominent south Mumbai dentist, who was injured in an elevator crash at the Dr Bhau Daji Lad Museum (BDL) on April 28, died on Thursday at Masina Hospital. Dr Arnavaz Havewalla, 63, suffered a pelvic fracture in the mishap, in which her daughter Hera, 28, A prominent south Mumbai dentist, who was injured in an elevator crash at the Dr Bhau Daji Lad Museum (BDL) on April 28, died on Thursday at Masina Hospital. Dr Arnavaz Havewalla, 63, suffered a pelvic fracture in the mishap, in which her daughter Hera, 28, was also injured. Hera continues to be under treatment at the same hospital. A statement released by Masina Hospital said Dr Havewalla was admitted to the hospital with a severe pelvic fracture and injury to heels due to fall from a height and she succumbed to her injuries on Thursday. While family and friends blamed the museum’s administration for Dr Havewalla’s death, BDL managing trustee Tasneem Mehta said Expert Equipment Limited, the agency appointed to maintain the elevator, is responsible for the accident. “The vendor said that the emergency brakes didn’t engage. So it’s completely his fault. There was nothing that was in our control. We did everything we could to give her the best treatment. Our staff rushed her to the hospital and got her admitted to the ICU. I personally went to see her at the hospital. This is a very unfortunate incident,” Mehta said. According to eye-witnesses, a cable attached to the elevator, that connects the museum’s ground floor to the first floor, snapped, sending it crashing down. Hera, who sustained multiple fratures to her left leg, refused to talk to this newspaper about the incident on Thursday evening. “I am still in a shock. I have lost my mom. I will take this up with the museum at an appropriate time,” she said. Dr Havewalla ran a clinic in Gamadia Colony Road in Tardeo. A police officer at the Byculla police station, who did not wish to be identified, said no arrests have been made in the case so far. “We have only carried out preliminary investigations,” he said. A message was being circulated in the Parsee community late on Thursday night expressing shock at Dr Havewalla’s death and seeking answers from the museum. “Dr Havewalla’s death has come as a shock to us. The BDL authorities must explain to us what went wrong. There must be a high-level probe and those responsible for this negligence must be booked,” said a community member. Assistant Commissioner of Police Deepak Kundal said investigations are on to ascertain the cause of death. “Arrests will be made once we know who exactly was responsible for Dr Havewalla’s death,” he said. Dr Arnavaz Havewalla, 63, suffered a pelvic fracture in the mishap, in which her daughter Hera, 28, was also injured. Hera continues to be under treatment at the same hospital. A statement released by Masina Hospital said Dr Havewalla was admitted to the hospital with a severe pelvic fracture and injury to heels due to fall from a height and she succumbed to her injuries on Thursday. While family and friends blamed the museum’s administration for Dr Havewalla’s death, BDL managing trustee Tasneem Mehta said Expert Equipment Limited, the agency appointed to maintain the elevator, is responsible for the accident. “The vendor said that the emergency brakes didn’t engage. So it’s completely his fault. There was nothing that was in our control. We did everything we could to give her the best treatment. Our staff rushed her to the hospital and got her admitted to the ICU. I personally went to see her at the hospital. This is a very unfortunate incident,” Mehta said. According to eye-witnesses, a cable attached to the elevator, that connects the museum’s ground floor to the first floor, snapped, sending it crashing down. Hera, who sustained multiple fratures to her left leg, refused to talk to this newspaper about the incident on Thursday evening. “I am still in a shock. I have lost my mom. I will take this up with the museum at an appropriate time,” she said. Dr Havewalla ran a clinic in Gamadia Colony Road in Tardeo. A police officer at the Byculla police station, who did not wish to be identified, said no arrests have been made in the case so far. “We have only carried out preliminary investigations,” he said. A message was being circulated in the Parsee community late on Thursday night expressing shock at Dr Havewalla’s death and seeking answers from the museum. “Dr Havewalla’s death has come as a shock to us. The BDL authorities must explain to us what went wrong. There must be a high-level probe and those responsible for this negligence must be booked,” said a community member. Assistant Commissioner of Police Deepak Kundal said investigations are on to ascertain the cause of death. “Arrests will be made once we know who exactly was responsible for Dr Havewalla’s death,” he said. Bhau Daji Lad Museum (Photo by Raju Shinde) Advertisement


--- [Dentist hurt in Byculla museum lift crash dies - The Hindu] ---
A 63-year-old dentist who sustained serious injuries in a lift collapse at Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum in Byculla last month, died on Thursday at Masina Hospital. The Grant Road resident’s last rites will be performed on Saturday. Dr. Arnavaz Havewalla, who practised at Gamadia Polyclinic in Tardeo, visited the museum along with her daughter around 2 p.m. on April 28. They entered a hydraulic lift on the first floor and it started falling towards the ground floor rapidly. It then got stuck between the first and ground floors for about five to six minutes. Due to the impact of the collapse, the mother and the daughter suffered back injuries. Dr. Havewalla suffered severe multiple injuries, including a pelvic fracture. “When our staff realised that they were trapped inside the lift, they ran to help. They pressed the ‘down’ button and the lift landed on the ground floor,” said a senior officer from the museum management. They were rushed to Masina Hospital in an ambulance and admitted to the Intensive Care Unit. While the daughter was discharged after a few days, Dr. Havewalla was shifted to the ward. She suffered a cardiac arrest on Thursday. The lift was installed after the museum’s restoration in 2008 and was meant for senior citizens and the disabled. The museum management said that the lift did not have a certificate from the Public Works department as it was just a levitator. The management said Expert Equipments installed the lift and the contract required it to take care of the lift’s annual maintenance and undertake an inspection every quarter. After the last inspection in December, the report said the ‘lift was in working condition.’ The next inspection in April was not carried out and the management has filed a police complaint against the contractor for negligence. The management has shut the lift and will conduct a third party audit before carrying out repairs. Tasneem Mehta, the museum’s honorary director and managing trustee, said, “The levitator’s manufacturer said in its report that the occupants did not close the door properly, pressed a bunch of buttons and the emergency brakes failed. After they got stuck, our staff pressed the button from downstairs and it came down. They then took her to the hospital. Instead of blaming the museum, it reflects on the care of Masina. She was out of our charge.” She said the contractor should have alerted the museum if the lift had become old. “The April inspection was delayed. We were pursuing the contractor. The police has also said that it was the vendor’s fault.” On the missing PWD certificate, she said, “That we will have to check with the architect.” Ms. Mehta said the museum did not have funds to award compensation and the trust will have to discuss the matter with the BMC. Abhinash Kumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone III), said that an FIR was registered early this week. He said, “We had registered an FIR for causing injury and endangering life due to negligence under the Indian Penal Code and will be adding relevant sections in light of the recent developments.” Published - May 10, 2019 12:53 am IST
