=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[‘I Like Things Which Are a Bit Dark and Weird’ —Zayn Reveals ...]
Jan 3, 2017 · Here, the Londoner chats up Vogue.com about what inspired his shoes and his personal style rules. How did the idea for a shoe collaboration with Giuseppe Zanotti come about?
URL: https://www.vogue.com/article/zayn-giuseppe-zanotti-collaboration-photos

[Here's Zayn Malik's Sneaker Collection with Giuseppe Zanotti]
Jan 3, 2017 · Zayn Malik and OTT footwear maestro Giuseppe Zanotti have joined forces on a lineup of pricey kicks that call to mind the pop star's edgy personal style.
URL: https://www.gq.com/gallery/zayn-malik-sneaker-collection-giuseppe-zanotti

[Zayn Malik on Why He Wants to Sell You Some 'Sick' New Shoes]
Aug 11, 2016 · Shoe designer? That appears to be the next step for model heartthrob Zayn Malik, who announced Thursday morning a new collaboration with fashion designer Giuseppe Zanotti on a pair of biker boots.
URL: https://time.com/4448194/zayn-malik-gq-interview-giuseppe-zanotti/

[Zayn Malik | BoF 500 | The People Shaping the Global Fashion Industry]
Oct 4, 2016 · Together with on-and-off model girlfriend Gigi Hadid , Malik appeared in the May 2016 issue of American Vogue in a fashion spread shot by Mario Testino. On the red carpet of the 2016 Met Gala, Malik, accompanied by Hadid, wore a Versace suit fitted with an armour sleeve. That same year, he signed a collaboration with shoe designer Giuseppe Zanotti.
URL: https://www.businessoffashion.com/people/zayn-malik/

[Zayn Malik Designs A New Line Of Shoes That You'll Want Your Own ...]
Jan 4, 2017 · Zayn Malik keeps diving deeper and deeper in the fashion world. The 23-year-old singer just launched a men's shoe collection with renowned footwear designer Giuseppe Zanotti. The line, known as Giuseppe x Zayn, consists of two boots and two sneakers in neutral leathers and suedes. The collection ...
URL: https://www.harpersbazaar.com.sg/fashion/news-trends/zayn-malik-giuseppe-zanotti-shoe-collaboration


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [‘I Like Things Which Are a Bit Dark and Weird’ —Zayn Reveals ...] ---
Zayn Malik’s fashion cred is on the rise. In February he’ll reveal his vision for Versus Versace as the brand’s newest “rock star” designer, and today the musician debuts his line of shoes with Giuseppe Zanotti. Zayn and Zanotti met at Paris Fashion Week in 2015. “When I saw him, I said to myself: ‘He is a cool guy and the epitome of a modern rebel,’ ” said Mr. Zanotti, who knows a thing or two about finding creative provocateurs to work with. Don’t forget, Mr. Z calls Beyoncé a friend and client. “I like to work with musicians because we share a very similar vision,” said Zanotti. “[Zayn and I] have always had an appreciation for one another, but it was during our first encounter in Paris that we realized we had a similar attitude and approach: iconic, edgy, and expressive. Zayn’s bold and individualistic vision, easy coolness, and love for fashion mean a lot to me.” For Malik, the collaboration marks a slight shift in his direction from musician with style—and a stylish girlfriend in the form of Gigi Hadid—to style star in his own right. Here, the Londoner chats up Vogue.com about what inspired his shoes and his personal style rules. How did the idea for a shoe collaboration with Giuseppe Zanotti come about? When Mr. Zanotti and I first met at Paris Fashion Week last year we realized that even though what we each do, music and shoe design, could be seen as worlds apart, we had a lot in common in how we approach and style them. I like things which are a bit dark and weird, and Mr. Zanotti isn't afraid to play with those elements either. The process of designing my collection has been really fun as a result! Most of the shoes you designed together have a boot-like silhouette and come in neutral colors—why did you gravitate toward this style? I wanted to mix up the iconic rock ’n' roll styles like boots, which are quite hard, with organic colors. I think the mix makes them feel quite classic. What were some of your inspirations for the designs? I'm always sketching down ideas and designs. I draw and paint a lot, so when it came to the shoes, I think that the ideas were already in my mind, somewhere. It was just a matter of putting them together. I take influence from everything I see, and I think when you look at all of the things I make from music, my merchandise, and these shoes that they all have a darker aesthetic. Your fashion star is rising with your Zanotti collaboration and your upcoming one with Versus Versace—why is fashion something you’re interested in pursuing? Like I said earlier, I love to design and I can’t see that suddenly stopping! Fashion, like music, reaches everyone and has turned out to be another outlet for me. I'm so excited about learning from Mr. Zanotti and his team, plus Donatella Versace and her team. What’s your personal style motto? How do you define your personal style? I don't think I have a motto really. For me fashion and style is very personal and rather than following trends I like to mix a few timeless pieces with whatever makes me feel good!


--- [Here's Zayn Malik's Sneaker Collection with Giuseppe Zanotti] ---
Here’s Zayn Malik’s Sneaker Collection with Giuseppe Zanotti Ever since Zayn Malik first announced that he was teaming up with Italian shoe designer and OTT footwear maestro Giuseppe Zanotti (and gave us a preview in the pages of GQ), we've been patiently waiting for the next-level designer sneakers and boots to drop. Well, it's finally happening. Giuseppe for Zayn, as the lineup is called, is hitting stores this month.The former One Direction–er turned pop R&B star (and Gigi Hadid's favorite accessory) is no stranger to high-end, off-the-runway goods and streetwear trends, so it makes sense that the collection fuses those two things together: incredibly well-made shoes (these are priced from $795 to $1,295, after all) with some frontman-influenced attitude (see: zippers, metal plates, quilted details). Here's your first look at the entire lineup, from concept to final creation:


--- [Zayn Malik on Why He Wants to Sell You Some 'Sick' New Shoes] ---
Singer. Artist. Shoe designer? That appears to be the next step for model heartthrob Zayn Malik, who announced Thursday morning a new collaboration with fashion designer Giuseppe Zanotti on a pair of biker boots. It’s fitting: Zayn, who’s best known for his downbeat, sultry solo music (after splitting from boy band One Direction in 2015), is dating Gigi Hadid, one of fashion’s biggest obsessions and consistently appears decked out in designer gear. In a new interview with GQ, Zayn — just the first name is needed these days — explained a little more about what goes into his distinctive look. “It’s about being happy to look a bit scruffy,” he said. “I just got into the whole rock sort of feel to clothes—big boots, skinny jeans, and dark T-shirt, and rings. Just the grungy feel.” He may be grungy, but Giuseppe Zanotti certainly isn’t; the brand, which is best known for its sky-high spiky women’s stilettos and chunky men’s sneakers, sells most shoes for upwards of $700. Zayn also told GQ that he’s feeling “blessed at the minute by God or whoever it is,” and he’d like to “continually have a presence,” so we expect there will be more fashion to come. Predictably, his fans got the hashtag “GiuseppexZayn” to trend in certain Twitter markets almost immediately, although it appears to be more about the new photos of the crooner than excitement over the boots themselves.


--- [Zayn Malik | BoF 500 | The People Shaping the Global Fashion Industry] ---
No content


--- [Zayn Malik Designs A New Line Of Shoes That You'll Want Your Own ...] ---
Zayn Malik Designs A New Line Of Shoes That You'll Want Your Own Boyfriend To Wear The singer has teamed up with Giuseppe Zanotti for a collection of men's shoes By Harper’s Bazaar Singapore Team - published Zayn Malik keeps diving deeper and deeper in the fashion world. The 23-year-old singer just launched a men's shoe collection with renowned footwear designer Giuseppe Zanotti. The line, known as Giuseppe x Zayn, consists of two boots and two sneakers in neutral leathers and suedes. The collection will be available in late January in select stores and online at giuseppezanottidesign.com. Prices range from $795 to $1,295. "I really believe style comes from taking chances, being bold and not being afraid to express yourself," Malik said in a statement. "I feel Giuseppe does that with his collections—and I try to do that with my music." Though surprising, the idea of the young popstar and iconic brand collaborating makes perfect sense. Zanotti even praised him as a "fashion icon" and described his style as "an easy coolness with the right amount of modern rebel." "So when the idea came up to to collaborate, I thought 'Yes, this would work,'" Malik said. He follows Jennifer Lopez as the latest A-list celeb to team up with the designer for an exclusive line. This is the first designer collaboration for the singer, but it certainly won't be his last. He also has a collaboration with Versus Versace in the works, set to launch in May 2017. With gigs like these, he follows in the footsteps of his girlfriend Gigi Hadid, who has already designed a line with Tommy Hilfiger last season (with another one coming in February) and an exclusive boot for Stuart Weitzman. Mailk even paid a small tribute to Hadid by naming one of the shoes in his collab "Zigi," after their couple nickname. Get ready to see Zayn Malik on the rise in the fashion realm this year. From: Harper's BAZAAR US
