=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ōkuma Shigenobu - Wikipedia]
On 30 June 1898, Ōkuma became Prime Minister, with Itagaki Taisuke as Home Minister, in what is considered Japan's first party cabinet. [67][62][68] The cabinet was plagued by internal factionalism from the start.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C5%8Ckuma_Shigenobu

[Ōkuma Shigenobu | Japanese Prime Minister, Meiji Restoration ...]
Jan 6, 2026 · Ōkuma Shigenobu (born March 11, 1838, Saga, Japan—died Jan. 10, 1922, Tokyo) was a politician who twice served as prime minister of Japan (1898; 1914–16). He organized the Rikken Kaishintō (“Progressive Party”) and founded Waseda University. After receiving a conventional education, Ōkuma turned to Western studies and took the then-unusual step of learning English. Following the ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Okuma-Shigenobu

[Itō Hirobumi]
Prince Itō Hirobumi was a Japanese statesman who served as the first prime minister of Japan from 1885 to 1888. Itō held office again as prime minister ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/It%C5%8D_Hirobumi

[Okuma Shigenobu | Prime Ministers of Japan | All Worlds ...]
First Term as Prime Minister Ōkuma Shigenobu became Prime Minister of Japan in 1898. He led a coalition government formed by the Progressive Party and the Liberal Party, creating the first party-based cabinet in Japan’s history. He aimed to strengthen parliamentary politics, but ideological differences between parties caused internal conflicts.
URL: https://allworldspresidents.com/prime-minister/okuma-shigenobu/

[Ōkuma Shigenobu Biography (1838-1922) - Japanese Prime Minister Life]
Ōkuma Shigenobu (1838-1922) was a Japanese politician, credited as being one of the major forces behind the introduction of modern democratic government to Japan. He was the prime minister of his country twice, the first time in 1898 and then again between 1914 and 1916.
URL: https://totallyhistory.com/okuma-shigenobu/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ōkuma Shigenobu - Wikipedia] ---
Marquess Ōkuma Shigenobu (Japanese: 大隈 重信; 11 March 1838 – 10 January 1922) was a Japanese statesman who was a leading figure in the Meiji and Taishō eras of Japan, serving as Prime Minister in 1898, and from 1914 to 1916. A key advocate for the adoption of Western science and culture in Japan, Ōkuma was a central figure in the country's modernization. He founded the political party Rikken Kaishintō and was an early proponent of parliamentary democracy. He is also the founder of Waseda University.
Born in Hizen Province (modern-day Saga Prefecture), Ōkuma was an early advocate for the abolition of the feudal system and the establishment of a constitutional government. As an "outsider" from Saga, he was a rare exception in the Satsuma-Chōshū clique that dominated the Meiji government. He joined the government in 1868 and rose to become Minister of Finance, a position in which he unified the nation's currency, created a national budget, and established the national mint. Following a political crisis in 1881, he was ousted from the government by his rivals. In opposition, he founded the Rikken Kaishintō and became one of the most prominent public figures championing a British-style parliamentary system.
Ōkuma returned to government as Foreign Minister in 1888 to work on treaty revision, but resigned after an assassination attempt by a nationalist in 1889 cost him his right leg. He later organized Japan's first party cabinet in 1898, serving as prime minister, though it collapsed after only four months. He returned to the premiership in 1914, leading Japan into World War I on the side of the Allies and formulating the Twenty-One Demands on China in 1915. Throughout his career, Ōkuma's populist and pro-modernization political style, his strong nationalism, and his unwavering advocacy for parliamentary rule made him one of the most influential statesmen of his generation. His national funeral in 1922 drew an unprecedented number of citizens.




--- [Ōkuma Shigenobu | Japanese Prime Minister, Meiji Restoration ...] ---
Ōkuma Shigenobu Ōkuma Shigenobu (born March 11, 1838, Saga, Japan—died Jan. 10, 1922, Tokyo) was a politician who twice served as prime minister of Japan (1898; 1914–16). He organized the Rikken Kaishintō (“Progressive Party”) and founded Waseda University. After receiving a conventional education, Ōkuma turned to Western studies and took the then-unusual step of learning English. Following the Meiji Restoration (1868), which reestablished the formal ruling authority of the emperor, leaders of the Meiji government broadened their base of support by adding representation from Ōkuma’s Saga domain. His ability and courage soon brought him an important role in government, at first specializing in finance. From 1869 to 1881 he was chiefly responsible for modernizing and reorganizing Japan’s fiscal system. When members of the government were asked to propose provisions of a new Japanese constitution, Ōkuma astounded his colleagues by making the radical suggestion that elections be held the next year, a parliament be convened, and the British system of a cabinet responsible to parliament be established. Later that year he exposed corruption in proposed sales of government property in Hokkaido, the northernmost of Japan’s four main islands. Ōkuma’s opinions and actions forced him out of the government, but the movement for a constitution gained great impetus. In response to popular pressure, the emperor promised that a constitution would be readied by 1890. The document was completed and promulgated a year earlier, on Feb. 1, 1889. Ōkuma formed a political party, the Kaishintō, that was oriented toward English parliamentary concepts. After rejoining the government in 1888, Ōkuma twice served as foreign minister. In 1898 he and Itagaki Taisuke, the founder of Japan’s first political party, the Jiyūtō (“Liberal Party”), joined forces and formed the Kenseitō (“Constitutional Party”). They formed a government in 1898 with Ōkuma as prime minister, but it foundered a few months later over patronage disputes. - In full (from 1916): - Kōshaku (Marquess) Ōkuma Shigenobu - Died: - Jan. 10, 1922, Tokyo (aged 83) - Title / Office: - prime minister (1914-1916), Japan - prime minister (1898), Japan - Founder: - Waseda University - Political Affiliation: - Kenseitō Earlier, in 1882, Ōkuma had founded in Tokyo what soon after became known as Waseda University, one of the two leading private universities in Japan. He retired from politics in 1907 to devote all his time to Waseda, only to be recalled as prime minister in 1914. During that term Japan experienced a great economic boom, partly as a result of the increased trade brought by World War I. In addition, Japan increased its pressure on China (including issuing the so-called Twenty-one Demands), which led to deteriorating relations between the countries. In 1916 Ōkuma, by then in ill health, resigned and retired from politics.


--- [Itō Hirobumi] ---
Prince Itō Hirobumi (Japanese: 伊藤 博文 [i.toː (|) çi.ɾoꜜ.bɯ.mʲi]; born Hayashi Risuke (林 利助); 16 October 1841 – 26 October 1909) was a Japanese statesman who served as the first prime minister of Japan from 1885 to 1888. Itō held office again as prime minister three times between 1892 and 1901. He was also a member of the genrō, a group of senior statesmen who effectively dictated policy for the Empire of Japan during the Meiji era. A key figure in the making of modern Japan, Itō played a central role in the drafting of the 1889 Meiji Constitution as well as the establishment of the National Diet and Japanese cabinet system.
Born into a poor farming family in the Chōshū Domain, Itō Hirobumi and his father were adopted into a low-ranking samurai family. After the opening of Japan in 1854, he joined the nationalist sonnō jōi movement before being sent to England in 1863 to study at University College London. Following the Meiji Restoration of 1868, Itō was appointed a junior councilor for foreign affairs in the newly formed Empire of Japan. Later in 1870, he traveled to the United States to study Western currency, and subsequently helped establish Japan's modern banking and taxation systems. Itō then set off on another overseas trip with the Iwakura Mission to the U.S. and Europe. Upon his return to Japan in 1873, he became a full councilor and public works minister.
By the early 1880s, Itō emerged as the de facto leader of the Meiji oligarchy. In 1881, he was officially entrusted with overseeing the drafting of the Meiji Constitution. After traveling to Europe to study its nations' political systems, Itō settled on adopting a constitution emulating that of Prussia by reserving considerable power with the emperor while limiting political parties' involvement in government. In 1885, he replaced the Daijō-kan with a cabinet composed of ministry heads, and became Japan's first prime minister. After the Meiji Constitution was drafted in 1888, he established a supra-cabinet Privy Council led by himself to review it before its official promulgation in 1889. Even out of office as prime minister, Itō continued to exert significant influence on government policy as an imperial adviser, or genkun, and as President of the Privy Council. In 1900, he founded the Rikken Seiyūkai political party as party politics grew more prominent in the Diet.
On the world stage, Itō pursued an active foreign policy. He strengthened diplomatic ties with Western powers including Germany, the United States, and especially the United Kingdom. In Asia, he oversaw the First Sino-Japanese War and negotiated the surrender of China's ruling Qing dynasty on terms favorable to Japan, including the annexation of Taiwan and the release of Korea from the Chinese tributary system. After the Russo-Japanese War, the ensuing Japan–Korea Treaty of 1905 made Itō the first Resident-General of Korea. Despite initially supporting a protectorate rather than outright annexation of Korea, pressure from the Imperial Japanese Army leadership and the failure of his gradualist approach contributed to his support for annexation. Itō resigned as Resident-General in June 1909 only to be assassinated four months later by Korean-independence activist and nationalist An Jung-geun in Harbin, Manchuria.


--- [Okuma Shigenobu | Prime Ministers of Japan | All Worlds ...] ---
Early Life and Education Ōkuma Shigenobu was born on March 11, 1838, in Saga, Hizen Province (now Saga Prefecture). He came from a samurai family and received his education in Confucian classics and Western studies. He embraced Western knowledge after learning about global politics and modern science. As a young man, he supported the overthrow of the Tokugawa shogunate and promoted the Meiji Restoration’s ideals. Rise in Political Career Ōkuma began his political journey during the early Meiji period. He joined the new government and supported financial and educational reforms. In 1873, he became Finance Minister and introduced Western-style banking systems, fiscal reforms, and economic modernization. His policies stabilized Japan’s economy and laid the groundwork for industrial growth. He also supported the adoption of Western institutions, including parliamentary democracy, which later shaped Japan’s political framework. Founding of Political Parties Ōkuma believed in constitutional government and founded the Progressive Party (Rikken Kaishintō) in 1882. This party supported democratic reforms, representative assemblies, and constitutional rights. He also helped establish Waseda University in 1882, which became a leading center for education and intellectual development in Japan. His work demonstrated his vision of combining Western political ideals with Japanese traditions. First Term as Prime Minister Ōkuma Shigenobu became Prime Minister of Japan in 1898. He led a coalition government formed by the Progressive Party and the Liberal Party, creating the first party-based cabinet in Japan’s history. He aimed to strengthen parliamentary politics, but ideological differences between parties caused internal conflicts. The cabinet lasted only four months, yet it marked the beginning of party politics in Japan. Second Term as Prime Minister Ōkuma returned as Prime Minister in 1914 after the Siemens scandal forced the previous administration to resign. During his second term, he focused on diplomacy, economic development, and political reforms. He guided Japan through World War I, expanded trade opportunities, and modernized industries. His administration issued the Twenty-One Demands to China in 1915, aiming to increase Japan’s influence in East Asia. However, the demands caused criticism from Western powers and domestic opposition. Legacy and Contributions Ōkuma Shigenobu retired from politics in 1916 but continued promoting education and modernization until his death on January 10, 1922. People remember him as a reformer who introduced Western political institutions, modern economic systems, and democratic ideals to Japan. Waseda University stands as a lasting tribute to his commitment to education and intellectual growth. Conclusion Ōkuma Shigenobu transformed Japan with his progressive policies, educational reforms, and diplomatic initiatives. He championed modernization while preserving Japanese identity, shaping the nation’s political and economic future. His leadership bridged tradition and modernity, leaving an enduring legacy in Japan’s history.


--- [Ōkuma Shigenobu Biography (1838-1922) - Japanese Prime Minister Life] ---
Ōkuma Shigenobu (1838-1922) was a Japanese politician, credited as being one of the major forces behind the introduction of modern democratic government to Japan. He was the prime minister of his country twice, the first time in 1898 and then again between 1914 and 1916. Ōkuma was the founder of Waseda University, and he set up the Progressive Party, or Rikken Kaishintō. For the last few years of his life, after having retired from an active role in politics, he held the rank of marquess. Early Life Ōkuma was born in the city of Saga, in southwestern Japan, on March 11, 1838. He was educated fairly conventionally for a man of his status and time, but he then quickly became interested in Western culture. He learned to speak English, which at that time was still considered unusual in Japan. In 1868, the Meiji Restoration had restated that the emperor had full, formal authority to rule. Leaders of the new government wished to broaden their support base. They did this by including representatives from the Saga area where Ōkuma had been living. Ōkuma had already become known for his capability and his courage in taking important decisions, and this helped to bring him a significant role in the new government. At first, he briefly held a role in the government’s financial administration, but in 1869, he was placed at the center of Japan’s modernization program. In this role, Ōkuma’s main responsibility was to overhaul the outdated fiscal system of the Japanese Empire and to bring it in line with modern practice. Ōkuma remained in this job for twelve years, until 1881. Radical Political Views The government was keen to draw up a new constitution for Japan, and Ōkuma was one of the government ministers who was asked for his views on how it should be written. He startled his fellow ministers by suggesting that a thoroughly Western democratic system should be established: the very next year, full elections should be held for places in a new parliament modeled on the Westminster system used in the United Kingdom. Ōkuma also proposed that British practice should be followed in making the cabinet answerable to the new parliament. Shortly after this consultation, Ōkuma became embroiled in a controversy that was to end with his enforced departure from the government. The government had proposed selling a certain amount of its property on the island of Hokkaido, the most northerly of the four large islands in the Japanese archipelago. Ōkuma showed that the proposed deals were riddled with corruption, after which his political enemies made a concerted – and eventually successful – attempt to make him leave the Japanese government entirely. Nevertheless, Ōkuma remained a highly popular figure in the country at large, and his support for a formal constitution for the country was widely backed by Japanese citizens. At length, the Emperor Meiji was forced to bow to the popular will, promising that there would be a constitution in existence by 1890. This promise was kept, with the new constitution being promulgated on February 1, 1889. Once this had been done, Ōkuma set up the Kaishintō political party, which followed his own feelings in that it was slanted toward concepts of parliamentary government as it was practiced in Britain. Rejoining the Government In 1888, Ōkuma had agreed to rejoin the government, and on two occasions he served his country as foreign minister. Ten years later, he held discussions with Itagaki Taisuke, who had set up the Jiyūtō or Liberal Party, the first modern political party to exist in Japan. The outcome of these talks was that the two men agreed to set up a joint organization known as the Constitutional Party, or Kenseitō. Later in 1898, this was able to form the government and Ōkuma became prime minister. However, the new government was dogged by matters relating to patronage, and it failed before the end of the year. In 1907, Ōkuma decided to retire completely from politics and spend his time on the upkeep of Waseda University, which he had founded in 1882. However, in 1914, he was to re-enter the national government as its prime minister. Japan prospered economically during the two years of his term, partly thanks to the increased demand brought about by the outbreak of World War One. Ōkuma’s most significant political action during his term was the issuing of the 21 Demands to China, an act which badly damaged relations between the two nations. Ōkuma retired in 1916 because of poor health.
