=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[What Do You Think? Cian O'Connor's Controversial European ...]
Aug 24, 2015 · It's the jump crew dive heard 'round the world, as a member of the jump crew at the FEI European Championships was standing in the track as Ireland's Cian O'Connor galloped around the turn. It was the second round of the Nations Cup team competition, and O'Connor and Good Luck encountered the man on the turn to the 11th fence and then had the 11th fence down. The rail meant the difference ...
URL: https://www.chronofhorse.com/article/what-do-you-think-cian-oconnors-controversial-european-championships-round/

[FEI European Jumping Championships Aachen 2015: Statement on Irish ...]
Aug 22, 2015 · The FEI has relased the following statement following an on-course incident that took place during Cian O'Connor's round in Aachen yesterday: "Following an on-course incident in which a member of the arena fence crew ran across the track as Irish rider Cian O’Connor was turning towards the 11th fence during the team Final at the FEI European Jumping Championships 2015 in Aachen (GER), the ...
URL: https://www.worldofshowjumping.com/Regional-Championships/FEI-statement-on-Irish-protest-at-the-European-Championships.html

[FEI European Championships 2025 - YouTube]
Re-Live | Competition 02 - Grand Prix A - Grade I - FEI Para Dressage European Championship FEI • 1.4K views • Streamed 5 months ago
URL: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLfqDYhc2wjP4tZdmxYdb6qSFiVTV-YHfG

[What Do You Think? Cian O'Connor's Controversial European Championships ...]
It's the jump crew dive heard 'round the world, as a member of the jump crew at the FEI European Championships was standing in the track as Ireland's Cian O'Connor galloped around the turn. It was the second round of the Nations Cup team competition, and O'Connor and Good Luck encountered the man on the turn to the 11th fence and then had the 11th fence down. The rail meant the difference ...
URL: https://www.chronofhorse.com/en/article/what-do-you-think-cian-oconnors-controversial-european-championships-round/

[What Do You Think? Cian O'Connor's Controversial European ...]
Aug 24, 2015 — It was the second round of the Nations Cup team competition ... Did the jump crew member interfere with O'Connor's approach to Fence 11?
URL: https://chronofhorse.com/article/what-do-you-think-cian-oconnors-controversial-european-championships-round


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [What Do You Think? Cian O'Connor's Controversial European ...] ---
It’s the jump crew dive heard ’round the world, as a member of the jump crew at the FEI European Championships was standing in the track as Ireland’s Cian O’Connor galloped around the turn. It was the second round of the Nations Cup team competition, and O’Connor and Good Luck encountered the man on the turn to the 11th fence and then had the 11th fence down. The rail meant the difference between sixth and seventh place for team Ireland and seventh place means they don’t qualify for the 2016 Rio Olympic Games. O’Connor was furious upon concluding his round and the Irish team immediately lodged a protest with the ground jury and then the appeals committee, claiming the jump crew interference contributed to O’Connor’s rail at Fence 11. But those bodies denied the protest. The Fédération Equeste Internationale released a statement on the decisions: “The protest was heard by the Ground Jury, who ruled that as the athlete had continued his round, they saw no reason to stop him by ringing the bell. Under Article 233.3 of the FEI Jumping Rules, the athlete had the opportunity to stop voluntarily due to unforeseen circumstances beyond his control, however he did not do so.” ADVERTISEMENT The Irish are vowing to continue to pursue avenues to contest the ruling. What do YOU think? Did the jump crew member interfere with O’Connor’s approach to Fence 11?


--- [FEI European Jumping Championships Aachen 2015: Statement on Irish ...] ---
The FEI has relased the following statement following an on-course incident that took place during Cian O'Connor's round in Aachen yesterday: "Following an on-course incident in which a member of the arena fence crew ran across the track as Irish rider Cian O’Connor was turning towards the 11th fence during the team Final at the FEI European Jumping Championships 2015 in Aachen (GER), the Irish chef d’equipe Robert Splaine and athlete Cian O’Connor lodged a protest. The horse Good Luck hit the fence to complete the course on four faults. The protest was heard by the Ground Jury, who ruled that as the athlete had continued his round, they saw no reason to stop him by ringing the bell. Under Article 233.3 of the FEI Jumping Rules, the athlete had the opportunity to stop voluntarily due to unforeseen circumstances beyond his control, however he did not do so. The Ground Jury heard explanations from Robert Splaine and Cian O’Connor, reviewed video footage of the incident, and ruled that the result would stand. Having been notified of the Ground Jury’s decision, the Irish chef d’equipe and the athlete promptly appealed the decision to the Appeal Committee. However, after a further full review of the incident, including hearing statements from all parties, the Appeal Committee ruled that the athlete had been given a full and complete right to be heard and stated that it would not overrule the Ground Jury on a field of play decision. As a result, the Appeal Committee rejected the appeal and upheld the Ground Jury decision. The decision means that the Irish team score of 25.960 penalties remains unchanged, leaving the Irish in seventh overall, with the qualifying slots for the Rio 2016 Olympic Games going to Switzerland (3rd), Great Britain (4th) and Spain (6th)." Source: Press release from FEI


--- [FEI European Championships 2025 - YouTube] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [What Do You Think? Cian O'Connor's Controversial European Championships ...] ---
No content


--- [What Do You Think? Cian O'Connor's Controversial European ...] ---
It’s the jump crew dive heard ’round the world, as a member of the jump crew at the FEI European Championships was standing in the track as Ireland’s Cian O’Connor galloped around the turn. It was the second round of the Nations Cup team competition, and O’Connor and Good Luck encountered the man on the turn to the 11th fence and then had the 11th fence down. The rail meant the difference between sixth and seventh place for team Ireland and seventh place means they don’t qualify for the 2016 Rio Olympic Games. O’Connor was furious upon concluding his round and the Irish team immediately lodged a protest with the ground jury and then the appeals committee, claiming the jump crew interference contributed to O’Connor’s rail at Fence 11. But those bodies denied the protest. The Fédération Equeste Internationale released a statement on the decisions: “The protest was heard by the Ground Jury, who ruled that as the athlete had continued his round, they saw no reason to stop him by ringing the bell. Under Article 233.3 of the FEI Jumping Rules, the athlete had the opportunity to stop voluntarily due to unforeseen circumstances beyond his control, however he did not do so.” ADVERTISEMENT The Irish are vowing to continue to pursue avenues to contest the ruling. What do YOU think? Did the jump crew member interfere with O’Connor’s approach to Fence 11?
