=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[ElizabethEsteve-Coll- Wikipedia]
Esteve-CollwasheadoflearningresourcesatKingstonPolytechnic(nowKingstonUniversity London) from 1977 to 1982.[4] In 1982 she became the first female director of the University of Surrey Library.[4][5]...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Esteve-Coll

[In memory of DameElizabethEsteve-Coll• V&A Blog]
Wewerevery saddened tolearnof the recent loss of DameElizabethEsteve-Coll. DameElizabethwasDirector of the V&A 1987 to 1995, following a successful period asHeadofthe National Art Library.
URL: https://www.vam.ac.uk/blog/news/in-memory-of-dame-elizabeth-esteve-coll

[DameElizabethEsteve-Coll, director of the V&A who divided critics...]
DameElizabethEsteve-Coll, who has died aged 85,wasa brave and far-sighted director of the Victoria and Albert Museum from 1987 to 1995 – a polarising period which she looked back on as “the troubles” and for which she paid a heavy personal price.
URL: https://www.yahoo.com/news/dame-elizabeth-esteve-coll-director-162702413.html

[RememberingElizabethEsteve-Coll, groundbreaking director of the...]
ElizabethEsteve-Collproposed a “clearer separation between research and collections management” at the V&A Colaimages/Alamy Stock Photo.This led her to a job as an information librarian in the School of ArtatKingstonPolytechnic(now University).
URL: https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2024/12/04/remembering-elizabeth-esteve-coll-groundbreaking-director-victoria-albert-museum-london

[DameElizabethEsteve-CollDBE, 1938-2024 - Sainsbury Institute for...]
Portrait of DameElizabethEsteve-Coll. Itwaswith great sadness that welearnedof the passing of DameElizabethEsteve-Collon 16 September at the age of 85.
URL: https://www.sainsbury-institute.org/ja/news/dame-elizabeth-esteve-coll-1938-2024/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [ElizabethEsteve-Coll- Wikipedia] ---
Dame Elizabeth Anne Loosemore Esteve-Coll  (née Kingdon; 14 October 1938 – 16 September 2024) was a British academic, museum director and librarian.


--- [In memory of DameElizabethEsteve-Coll• V&A Blog] ---
“There’s something in the V&A for everybody – that is what I’d like everybody to know” Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll We were very saddened to learn of the recent loss of Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll. Dame Elizabeth was Director of the V&A 1987 to 1995, following a successful period as Head of the National Art Library. Dame Elizabeth first joined the V&A as a librarian and was Keeper of the National Art Library (NAL). She undertook the modernisation and professionalisation of the NAL in a number of ways, including the digitization of the National Art Library card catalogue system and encouraging and supporting staff to obtain library qualifications, with funding and release time. She brought her interest and knowledge of artists’ books into the workings of the library, championing the work of British artist publishers including Ron King’s Circle Press. A statuette by Paolozzi of her, is on permanent display in the Reading Room, as a tribute to her time leading the NAL. From this, Dame Elizabeth rose to become the first female Director of the V&A Museum, following on from Sir Roy Strong. Seeking to transform the culture and approach of the curatorial body, she is well documented for the structural changes to the museum during the beginning of her tenure. As part of her ambition to open up the museum to wider audiences and shed some of its cliquish, inward-looking reputation, Dame Elizabeth also embarked upon an advertising campaign with Saatchi & Saatchi which upset more traditional constituencies. Within the museum, as someone who had personally benefited from further education later in life, one of her highest priorities was to improve the education service, believing that the collections could be made relevant to everyone. She launched both a new Research Department and Education Department, which embraced schools, adult and community education. Today, the V&A’s national learning program continues at great pace and breadth from early years to teens to adults. During her time major transformations were also made to new ‘Art and Design’ galleries, with the opening of the Nehru Gallery of Indian Art (1990), the TT Tsui Gallery of Chinese Art (1991), the Samsung Gallery of Korean Art (1992) and a Twentieth Century Gallery that incorporated the material in the existing British 1900 – 1960 Gallery into a thematic international treatment (1992). The ‘Materials and Techniques’ galleries also began to be overhauled. The Glass Gallery was completed in 1994 and work started on the Ironwork and Silverwork galleries. In 1991, Dame Elizabeth was interviewed by Sue Lawley on the BBC’s Desert Island Discs. Sue Lawley asks her: “If there was one sentence that could sum up what you achieved in your ten year tenure, what would it be?” Dame Elizabeth replies, “To make the V&A much more part of the national subconscious. To get it into the nation’s bloodstream. That it was a real and very living, very important part of our culture. It wasn’t elitist. It wasn’t something that was only for the art historian. There’s something in the V&A for everybody – that is what I’d like everybody to know.” This ethos stills runs in our culture today. Dame Elizabeth read enormous amounts of Spanish and French literature and taught herself Italian. Her personal passions – a love of T.S Eliot, Bach and her English sheepdog would take up some of her personal time. On leaving the V&A, she became Vice-Chancellor of the University of East Anglia, but sadly ill-health brough her tenure in Norwich to an early end. A friend recalls of her recent years, ‘After leaving South Ken she retained her keen interest in the V&A and her warm support for its continuing work to bring art to all.’ And remembers her as, ‘very special. Her energy and determination were matched by a dry sense of humour, and an elegant personal style.’ The V&A wishes to acknowledge Dame Elizabeth’s great service to South Kensington, and extends its deepest condolences to her friends and family.


--- [DameElizabethEsteve-Coll, director of the V&A who divided critics...] ---
Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll, director of the V&A who divided critics with her ‘rebranding’ exercise - Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll served as the director of the Victoria and Albert Museum from 1987 to 1995, facing challenges and making controversial decisions to modernize the institution. Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll, who has died aged 85, was a brave and far-sighted director of the Victoria and Albert Museum from 1987 to 1995 – a polarising period which she looked back on as “the troubles” and for which she paid a heavy personal price. She followed Sir Roy Strong, who had been forced to resign despite ground-breaking exhibitions on the plight of country houses, and impeccable credentials as a democratising former director of the National Portrait Gallery. On top of deterioration to the South Kensington building and its finances, a National Audit Office report had singled out the V&A – together with the British Museum – for failure in a duty to conserve and care for its vast reserves of precious historical objects. Steadying the ship required Elizabeth Esteve-Coll to make a number of unpopular decisions from the off. In 1988 she hinted at a wholesale “rebranding” of the museum when she hired Saatchi and Saatchi to produce a soon-notorious advertising campaign. Posters plugging “an ace caff with a rather nice museum attached” were intended to draw in a younger and more urbane crowd of new visitors. Instead they were scorned by many in the art world as “crass”. The mood only worsened when, in January 1989, Elizabeth Esteve-Coll announced a plan to cull the number of long-standing museum curators. The scheme elicited loud cries of protest from interested parties, many of whom feared a consequent loss of expertise. One of her predecessors, Sir John Pope-Hennessy, denounced her as a “vulgar populist”, while three of the V&A’s four unions called for her resignation. Yet Elizabeth Esteve-Coll held firm to her vow to forge a “strong museum to face the pressures of the late 20th century”, creating a Department of Research and raising sponsorship for eight new galleries as part of that push towards modernisation. Under her tenure, many thought, the building became cleaner, better maintained and better signposted than it had been under Sir Roy. By 1994 she could boast of a year-on-year rise in visitor numbers, drawn by eye-catching exhibitions which sometimes divided the critics but mostly delighted the public. One on the alternative dressing of subcultures (Streetstyle: From Sidewalk to Catwalk) was a prototype for the hugely successful fashion surveys of more recent decades. Though her personal detractors remained unpersuaded even after her departure, Elizabeth Esteve Coll’s commitment to the welfare of the museum was seldom in doubt. She endeavoured to prove herself through sheer hard work (14-hour days were routine) and by making occasional doughty appearances in the British press. “I am not as weak-kneed as I think people would like to hope,” she told The Sunday Times in 1989. Asked what her chosen epitaph would read, she replied: “She made it work.” She certainly made it more popular, having inherited an annual audience numbered in hundreds of thousands. Although rising visitor numbers were suddenly halved after her tenure, when voluntary donations gave way to compulsory admission charges, they surged again with free entry to reach a pre-Covid record of 4.4 million in 2017-18. A pioneering director of deep personal modesty may have felt herself finally vindicated. She was born Elizabeth Anne Loosemore Kingdon on October 14 1938, a bookish only child who spent much of the wartime years living with grandparents near Whitby while her father served in the Army. Both parents were keen book-collectors, who encouraged the same interest in their daughter. After the war the family moved to Darlington, Co Durham. There Elizabeth attended the local girls’ school and spent many of her weekends on visits to the area’s historic buildings, churches and museums. From the outset she had a passionate love of culture and travel. Briefly embarked on a degree in Spanish and English at Trinity College Dublin, she ran away to sea, aged 19, after encountering the “warm brown eyes” of Catalan captain José Alexander Timothy Esteve-Coll (known by his English name of Alex). An exile from Franco’s Spain, 30 years her senior, Alex had served in the Royal Navy during the war then joined the mercantile marine. The couple married in 1960 and Elizabeth Esteve-Coll revelled in sailing the world for a decade. The only woman aboard a series of cargo ships, she continued her studies by reading in English, French, Spanish and Italian and cultivating a love of Japanese culture. This was supplemented with carrier bags full of texts that she picked up every time they came into port. Books would cascade through her life. Although never able to conquer the scourge of seasickness, and despite her fragile appearance and love for good clothes she became a dab hand in the robust shipboard arts of maintenance: chipping, hammering and oxy-acetylene welding. With Alex nearing the naval retirement age, the couple returned to dry land in the 1970s. In 1976, through evening studies, Elizabeth Esteve-Coll took a First in history and history of art from Birkbeck College, London. By the time of her husband’s death in 1980 she had an administrative role at Kingston College of Art, followed by a spell as librarian at the University of Surrey. Although these credentials led to her successful stint as head of the National Art Library at the V & A, they would spur attack from those who judged her too much of an “outsider” – having failed to take the usual educational route via the Courtauld Institute of Art – to hold a senior position at the V & A. In an era with few women in leading managerial roles, she was widely derided as another Iron Lady. Unlike Margaret Thatcher, however, her newspaper of choice remained The Guardian and she was sustained by broad reading, music, conversation and an ironic sense of humour. Reappointed for a second five-year directorial term, Elizabeth Esteve-Coll resigned in 1995 after being offered the position of vice-chancellor of the University of East Anglia. That same year she was appointed DBE for services to the arts. Already there may have been intimations of the ill-health which would force her early departure from the UEA post when, in 1997, she revealed a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. As travel continued between homes in Norfolk and France, her stoical stamina survived until the curtailing cruelties of lockdown. By that point she had served as chancellor of the University of Lincoln (2001-08) and helped to give away many millions in Wolfson Foundation funding. Belying the apparent coolness of her public image, private warmth and generosity and a certain nobility of bearing won the undying loyalty of a wide circle. Her book choice of T S Eliot on Desert Island Discs brought in the author’s widow, Valerie. Friendship with Lisa Sainsbury led to Elizabeth Esteve-Coll giving guidance to the Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts and the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures in Norwich. She received Japan’s Order of the Rising Sun for her cultural contribution in 2005. Partnered in latter decades by her fellow academic Moya Willson, who survives her, Elizabeth Esteve-Coll never looked back in anger. Neither did she keep her thoughts wholly to herself. Candid memories were recorded for the British Library and will be released with her death. Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll, born October 14 1938, died September 16 2024


--- [RememberingElizabethEsteve-Coll, groundbreaking director of the...] ---
Elizabeth Esteve-Coll is best known in the art world for having been a charismatic but at the time much criticised director of the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A), in London, from 1988 to 1995, a turbulent period in its history; but she should also be remembered as a professional librarian at Kingston University and the University of Surrey, then keeper of the National Art Library from 1985 to 1988, as well as a briefer period as vice-chancellor of the University of East Anglia (UEA) from 1995 to 1997. After retiring as a result of multiple sclerosis (MS) in 1997, she remained an active figure in the affairs of the Sainsbury Centre at UEA, the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures, the arts panel of the Wolfson Foundation and Norwich Cathedral, as well as serving as chancellor of the University of Lincoln from 2001 to 2008. Elizabeth Kingdon was born in Ripon in 1938, an only child. Her father, Percy Kingdon, worked for the National Provincial Bank, later the NatWest, in Middlesbrough, Darlington, Loftus, Hull and Bedale, while also serving in the army during the Second World War. Her family was bookish, keen on poetry, with strong musical interests, and her parents took her on visits to country houses, cathedrals and castles as well as weekend visits to her grandmother in Whitby. She was head girl at her grammar school in Darlington. After a year doing her A levels at a crammer in Oxford, she went to Trinity College Dublin to read English and Spanish, and fell in love with a Spanish sea captain, José Esteve-Coll, known as Alex, an exile from Franco’s Spain who had served in British intelligence during the war and then in the British merchant navy. She married him in 1960. Records, including a later appearance on BBC Radio 4’s Desert Island Discs, suggest she spent the whole of the 1960s reading, learning languages and travelling the world, but in the mid-60s at least, the couple were living in Muswell Hill, north London, in a flat belonging to Maurice de Sausmarez, author of Basic Design. In the early 1970s she went to evening classes at Birkbeck College, in London, where, with her wide reading and good knowledge of languages, she got a first in history and history of art. This led her to a job as an information librarian in the School of Art at Kingston Polytechnic (now University). From there she was appointed director of the University of Surrey Library. She was an immensely capable, hard-working, professional librarian, knowledgeable about new developments in library science and, in 1985, was appointed keeper of the National Art Library at the V&A by Roy Strong. She could not have been less like the other keepers—relatively young, very dedicated, a breath of fresh air. She changed the atmosphere of the library and its working methods with extreme efficiency. Older members of staff were sent on management training courses. Younger staff were promoted to positions of greater responsibility. This was why, when Strong resigned in 1987, so many of the staff were keen for Esteve-Coll to succeed him: they felt that she could reform the museum in the way that she had the National Art Library. But a big, old-fashioned, hierarchical museum with entrenched ways of working was harder to change. She may not have had the same premeditated confidence as to what needed to be done. So, she established a committee under John Murdoch, keeper of the Department of Paintings, Prints and Drawings, which came up with a multitude of different ways as to how the museum should be reformed, but no consensus. Meanwhile, she consulted friends, colleagues and management experts as to how best to introduce change. At the heart of what she proposed was a clearer separation between research and collections management. This idea, never fully explained, was based on her realisation that many of the curatorial staff devoted too much time on unfocused private research, leading to publications not necessarily related to the museum’s holdings, while relatively little was spent on their core responsibility of looking after, managing and cataloguing the collection, particularly objects in store, and making information about the collection available to a wide public. Esteve-Coll took up her post at the V&A in early 1988. Following a critical report of the conditions of storage by the National Audit Committee, she faced a hearing in front of the Public Accounts Committee in which she was attacked by committee members and asked what she proposed to do. HM Treasury made funds available for a package of senior redundancies on condition that they were spent by the end of the financial year. On 9 February 1989, nine keepers of the museum were summoned to her office and offered voluntary redundancy. It was a radical way of managing change by top-slicing senior management and caused a widespread outcry, including amongst the Board of Trustees who felt they had not been adequately told what had been planned. Martin Kemp, professor of art history at the University of Oxford, resigned. Michael Podro, professor of art history and theory at the University of Essex, made strenuous efforts behind the scenes to mitigate the damage. Robert Armstrong, the chair of trustees, stayed silent and may not have provided the psychological support Esteve-Coll needed. Esteve-Coll paid a heavy price as the odium of the art world was heaped upon her, including a particularly vicious attack by John Pope-Hennessy, her predecessor but one. A revolution that needed to happen In practice, the revolution was not as extreme as first feared. The majority of the existing departments remained semi-intact under Gwyn Miles, a conservator, as surveyor of collections with responsibility for looking after the collections. A research department was created to raise external funding and enable staff from within the museum, as well as outside, to focus on substantial research projects, including exhibitions and publications. The education department was given more responsibility and funding to encourage public interpretation. Her changes [at the V&A] have produced a museum that is better run and focused on the interests of a non-specialist public In retrospect, it was a revolution that needed to happen. Esteve-Coll retained the devoted loyalty of those staff who liked and admired her and supported her reform, but not of the wider museum community. It was not an easy period for the museum or for her as it experimented with new types of exhibition, new ways of advertising itself, and began the important task of updating and re-presenting its galleries. The Nehru Gallery of Indian Art opened in 1990, the T.T. Tsui Gallery of Chinese Art in 1991, the Samsung Gallery of Korean Art in 1992 and a new Glass Gallery in 1994. In the long term, her changes have, as she intended, produced a museum that is better run, more professional, and focused on the interests of a non-specialist public. In 1995, she left the V&A and became vice-chancellor of UEA, a post for which she was ideally suited. By now she was suffering from MS. Two years later she resigned. She remained astonishingly active in spite of increasing immobility, travelling back and forth between Norfolk, Corfu and France, still lively, vigorous, always with a strong sense of humour, very direct and down to earth. She lived in Aylsham, north of Norwich, with Moya Willson, a former pro-vice-chancellor at UEA. Elizabeth Anne Loosemore Kingdon; born Ripon, North Yorkshire, 14 October 1938; keeper, National Art Library 1985-88; director, Victoria and Albert Museum, London, 1988-95; vice-chancellor, University of East Anglia 1995-97; DBE 1995; chancellor, University of Lincoln 2001-08; married 1960 José Alexander Timothy (Alex) Esteve-Coll (died 1980); partner of Moya Willson; died Aylsham, Norfolk, 16 September 2024.


--- [DameElizabethEsteve-CollDBE, 1938-2024 - Sainsbury Institute for...] ---
It was with great sadness that we learned of the passing of Dame Elizabeth Esteve-Coll on 16 September at the age of 85. She died peacefully at home in Norfolk. Dame Elizabeth was instrumental in the creation of the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Cultures, and was a close friend of our founding benefactors Sir Robert and Lady Lisa Sainsbury. She was responsible for finding our headquarters in Norwich Cathedral Close and oversaw the development of the Lisa Sainsbury Library which continues to be the major asset of the Sainsbury Institute. As a former Vice Chancellor of the University of East Anglia, she was hugely supportive as we developed new Japan-related degree programmes and the Centre for Japanese Studies at UEA. Dame Elizabeth ensured that we forged strong bonds with our Norfolk and Norwich community, and our Third Thursday Lecture Series, now in its 23rd year, was her creation. She was a tremendous supporter of all of our events, and visited Japan with us on a number of occasions. From the outset, she served as one of our founding Trustees and as a member of our Management Board. She first visited Japan in 1964, the year of the 1st Tokyo Olympics. In 2005, she was awarded the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays and Neck Ribbon by the Japanese government for her promotion of Japanese culture in the UK. Dame Elizabeth was an inspiration to us all and we will miss her greatly. We offer our sincere condolences to her family and friends. We reproduce here an article from Orientations in which Dame Elizabeth interviewed Lady Lisa Sainsbury about her interest in Japanese art, along with three interviews with Dame Elizabeth herself from past issues of our e-bulletin, looking at the past, present and future of the Institute (Part 1, Part2, and Part 3).
