=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[South Africa to introduce shared parental leave after landmark judgment]
Nov 10, 2023 · South Africa is set to become the first country in Africa to introduce shared parental leave after a high court ruled that both parents must have the right to time off after the birth of a baby or ...
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2023/nov/10/south-africa-to-introduce-shared-parental-leave-after-landmark-judgment

[South Africa introduces shared parental leave, a first in Africa]
South Africa has taken a groundbreaking step in becoming the first African country to implement shared parental leave. This landmark decision, resulting from an October ruling by the Johannesburg High Court, grants fathers the right to share four months of parental leave with their partners. Prior to this ruling, mothers were entitled to four months of leave, while fathers were limited to a ...
URL: https://www.weforum.org/videos/south-africa-shared-parental-leave/

[Fathers entitled to equal parental leave, South Africa's top court rules]
Oct 3, 2025 · The current law grants mothers four months of leave and fathers 10 days South Africa's highest court has unanimously ruled that all parents of new-borns are entitled to equal parental leave - a ...
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c0q7y5d0l3eo

[South African fathers entitled to equal parental leave ... - BBC]
Oct 3, 2025 · South Africa's highest court has unanimously ruled that all parents of new-borns are entitled to equal parental leave - a landmark judgment hailed as a major victory for gender equality and family ...
URL: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c0q7y5d0l3eo

[South Africa is first nation in Africa to offer shared parental leave]
South Africa has become the first country in Africa to introduce shared parental leave, allowing parents to choose how to divide four months leave between them after the birth of their baby, or adopting a child. Last month, the Gauteng Division of the High Court in Johannesburg made the landmark judgement, changing the previous laws that allowed only mothers to four months of leave, while ...
URL: https://womensagenda.com.au/latest/south-africa-becomes-first-nation-in-africa-to-introduce-shared-parental-leave/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [South Africa to introduce shared parental leave after landmark judgment] ---
South Africa is set to become the first country in Africa to introduce shared parental leave after a high court ruled that both parents must have the right to time off after the birth of a baby or adopting a child. The landmark judgment allows parents to choose how to divide four months parental leave between them. Previously, mothers were entitled to four months’ leave while fathers or partners were allowed a maximum of 10 days. While there has been growth in the number of African nations guaranteeing paid leave for fathers over the past 20 years, in many countries it remains below three weeks. Some only allow two or three days off. Campaigners have labelled it a tremendous step. Wessel van den Berg, MenCare officer at Equimundo, a gender equality organisation, said: “It raises the bar on leave for parents in a wonderful way. I’m thrilled our law is becoming more in line with our constitution.” He added that while the judgment was “a significant milestone”, it also highlighted the need for further reforms to align policy with the reality of life in the country. Politicians have two years to refine and develop the law. Nkululeko Mbuli, communications strategist for Embrace, a social movement for mothers, said the policy was a move in the right direction but “it still shortchanges mothers”. She said that the judgment, issued last month, placed responsibility for leave with individuals rather than “building a caring system”. The unemployed and those working in insecure employment were left out, she said. “Mothers want to be excited but they are concerned about the practical implications,” she said. Thandile Ndoda, 30, lives in Cape Town and is expecting a baby with her husband, Kwanda, 34, later this year. Kwanda was happy about the “progressive” move, and would take more leave to support Thandile. But both agreed a mother should not have to give up her leave. “I think fathers should be allowed to be at home more but I don’t agree with sacrificing the mother’s maternity leave,” said Thandile. Kwanda added: “I think the new generation of men is taking on a more liberal stance. They want to be a core part of their children’s lives.” They, along with Van den Berg and Mbuli, want to see an extra portion of non-transferable “use it or lose it” leave for both parents, that does not cut into the shared leave period, as in Spain and Sweden. “The journey is far from over,” said Van den Berg, “but this judgment represents a promising step toward a more equitable and balanced caregiving landscape in South Africa.”


--- [South Africa introduces shared parental leave, a first in Africa] ---
Martin Jacob February 17, 2026 South Africa has taken a groundbreaking step in becoming the first African country to implement shared parental leave. This landmark decision grants fathers the right to share four months of parental leave with their partners. South Africa has taken a groundbreaking step in becoming the first African country to implement shared parental leave. This landmark decision, resulting from an October ruling by the Johannesburg High Court, grants fathers the right to share four months of parental leave with their partners. Prior to this ruling, mothers were entitled to four months of leave, while fathers were limited to a mere 10 days. The court deemed the previous parental leave laws as discriminatory, not only in terms of gender but also in their treatment of adoptive and surrogate parents. These parents were previously restricted to 10 weeks of leave for one parent and 10 days for the other. The new ruling ensures that all sets of parents have equal access to the full four months of leave, and single parents of any gender can take the entire leave by themselves. While the parental leave is unpaid, parents can claim unemployment benefits. South Africa's parliament has two years to develop the new laws, taking into account the country's high unemployment rate of around 32%. Shared parental leave is gradually gaining recognition across Africa, but many countries still lack paid paternity leave, and some offer only a few days off. The global average for paternity leave currently stands at 21 days, compared to 191 days for maternity leave. Shared parental leave can play a crucial role in addressing gender imbalances in the unpaid care economy, where women shoulder 76% of the unpaid care burden. The lack of adequate care infrastructure remains a significant barrier to women's participation in the workforce. Bringing you weekly curated insights and analysis on the global issues that matter. Martin Jacob February 17, 2026


--- [Fathers entitled to equal parental leave, South Africa's top court rules] ---
Fathers entitled to equal parental leave, South Africa's top court rules South Africa's highest court has unanimously ruled that all parents of new-borns are entitled to equal parental leave - a landmark judgment hailed as a major victory for gender equality and family rights. Under the current law, mothers are granted four months of leave, while fathers receive just 10 days. In its ruling, the Constitutional Court declared parts of the legislation unconstitutional, calling it discriminatory against fathers, and ruled that both parents may now share the granted leave however they choose. "This is a ground-breaking step for equality, family wellbeing, and the future of fatherhood in South Africa," said Sthembiso Phakathi, founder of Single Dads Network. In 2023, a lower court found certain sections of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCE) Act and the Unemployment Insurance Fund Act (UIF) unjust and ruled that they violated the rights of various family structures. The Gauteng High Court then ruled that the law unfairly treated types of parents differently regarding the length of parental leave and unemployment benefits received. The case was brought to court by a married couple, the Commission for Gender Equality and others, who sought to address the unfair societal burden placed primarily on mothers, highlighting that parenting responsibilities should be shared. The petitioners argued that the current legislation unfairly discriminated against parents who were not the birth mother - specifically, fathers, adoptive parents, and parents of children born to surrogates - by granting them only 10 days of parental leave, while the birth mother received four months. Delivering the ruling on Friday, Justice Zukisa Tshiqi said that both parents should be entitled to share the available days as they saw fit, describing the current law outdated and one which "unfairly burdened mothers and excluded fathers". "The protection of birth mothers to the exclusion of other parents has the unfortunate consequence of perpetrating the assumption that women are, and should be, the primary caregivers of children. "The father is marginalised and deprived of the opportunity to involve himself as a parent in the upbringing of the baby during the early stages of life," she added. Justice Tshiqi said the ruling was not only about gender equality but also about protecting the dignity of families, emphasising that the ultimate focus of the court's decision was the wellbeing of children. "The unequal treatment not only marginalises parents but also deprives children of the opportunity to be with their caregivers during a crucial period of nurturing and adjustment to their new environment." The petitioners welcomed the ruling, while legal experts warned that the decision would have far-reaching implications for employers, who will need to adjust their current leave policies to comply with the judgement. "The essence of the case is that it highlights the need to provide equal parental leave benefits, recognising that nurturing a child is a shared responsibility," Tsietsi Shuping from the Commission for Gender Equality told the BBC. He said the current law "did not reflect evolving societal norms around parenting". Labour lawyer Patrick Deale told state media that the judgment was "a positive and expected outcome" for parental rights in the country. The court has suspended its declaration of invalidity for three years, giving parliament time to amend the current laws to align with its judgement. In the meantime, parents will be entitled to decided how they want to share the four months and 10 days of leave. If only one parent is employed, that parent may take the full leave allocation. More about South Africa from the BBC: Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica


--- [South African fathers entitled to equal parental leave ... - BBC] ---
Fathers entitled to equal parental leave, South Africa's top court rules - Published South Africa's highest court has unanimously ruled that all parents of new-borns are entitled to equal parental leave - a landmark judgment hailed as a major victory for gender equality and family rights. Under the current law, mothers are granted four months of leave, while fathers receive just 10 days. In its ruling, the Constitutional Court declared parts of the legislation unconstitutional, calling it discriminatory against fathers, and ruled that both parents may now share the granted leave however they choose. "This is a ground-breaking step for equality, family wellbeing, and the future of fatherhood in South Africa," said Sthembiso Phakathi, founder of Single Dads Network. In 2023, a lower court found certain sections of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCE) Act and the Unemployment Insurance Fund Act (UIF) unjust and ruled that they violated the rights of various family structures. The Gauteng High Court then ruled that the law unfairly treated types of parents differently regarding the length of parental leave and unemployment benefits received. The case was brought to court by a married couple, the Commission for Gender Equality and others, who sought to address the unfair societal burden placed primarily on mothers, highlighting that parenting responsibilities should be shared. The petitioners argued that the current legislation unfairly discriminated against parents who were not the birth mother - specifically, fathers, adoptive parents, and parents of children born to surrogates - by granting them only 10 days of parental leave, while the birth mother received four months. Delivering the ruling on Friday, Justice Zukisa Tshiqi said that both parents should be entitled to share the available days as they saw fit, describing the current law outdated and one which "unfairly burdened mothers and excluded fathers". "The protection of birth mothers to the exclusion of other parents has the unfortunate consequence of perpetrating the assumption that women are, and should be, the primary caregivers of children. "The father is marginalised and deprived of the opportunity to involve himself as a parent in the upbringing of the baby during the early stages of life," she added. Justice Tshiqi said the ruling was not only about gender equality but also about protecting the dignity of families, emphasising that the ultimate focus of the court's decision was the wellbeing of children. "The unequal treatment not only marginalises parents but also deprives children of the opportunity to be with their caregivers during a crucial period of nurturing and adjustment to their new environment." The petitioners welcomed the ruling, while legal experts warned that the decision would have far-reaching implications for employers, who will need to adjust their current leave policies to comply with the judgement. "The essence of the case is that it highlights the need to provide equal parental leave benefits, recognising that nurturing a child is a shared responsibility," Tsietsi Shuping from the Commission for Gender Equality told the BBC. He said the current law "did not reflect evolving societal norms around parenting". Labour lawyer Patrick Deale told state media that the judgment was "a positive and expected outcome" for parental rights in the country. The court has suspended its declaration of invalidity for three years, giving parliament time to amend the current laws to align with its judgement. In the meantime, parents will be entitled to decided how they want to share the four months and 10 days of leave. If only one parent is employed, that parent may take the full leave allocation. More about South Africa from the BBC: Go to BBCAfrica.com, external for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, external, on Facebook at BBC Africa, external or on Instagram at bbcafrica, external


--- [South Africa is first nation in Africa to offer shared parental leave] ---
South Africa has become the first country in Africa to introduce shared parental leave, allowing parents to choose how to divide four months leave between them after the birth of their baby, or adopting a child. Last month, the Gauteng Division of the High Court in Johannesburg made the landmark judgement, changing the previous laws that allowed only mothers to four months of leave, while fathers or partners were given a maximum of 10 days leave. Gender equality organisations in the country of 60 million have welcomed the decision that moves to normalise genderless parental leave in a continent where some nations still don’t offer fathers paid parental leave. Nkululeko Mbuli, a communications strategist for Embrace, a Cape Town based social group for mothers, is positive about the latest policy change, but thinks “it still shortchanges mothers”. “Mothers want to be excited but they are concerned about the practical implications,” she said, adding that the judgement doesn’t seek at “building a caring system”. She also believes that unemployed individuals and those in volatile employment circumstances are continuing to be left out. The gender equality organisation Equimundo is also celebrating the latest news. Wessel van den Berg, an officer working within the group’s MenCare campaign (whose mission is to “inspire men around the world – to become more involved fathers, more invested partners”) described the policy in South Africa as “a significant milestone” that “raises the bar on leave for parents in a wonderful way.” “I’m thrilled our law is becoming more in line with our constitution,” he told The Guardian. “The journey is far from over, but this judgment represents a promising step toward a more equitable and balanced caregiving landscape in South Africa.” The International Labour Organisation (ILO) charter recommends parental leave (paid or unpaid leave offered by an employer) for both parents.
