=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Andrew Garbarino - Wikipedia]
Garbarino was born and raised in Sayville, New York. [5] He graduated from Sayville High School and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in history and classical humanities from George Washington University. He then earned a Juris Doctor from Hofstra University School of Law. [6]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Garbarino

[Andrew Garbarino - Ballotpedia]
Biography Andrew Garbarino was born in Sayville, New York. Garbarino earned a B.A. in history and classical humanities from George Washington University and a J.D. from Hofstra University. His career experience includes working with his family's law firm. Garbarino is a member of the Sayville Rotary Club and Knights of Columbus. [1] [2] Committee assignments U.S. House 2025-2026 Garbarino was ...
URL: https://ballotpedia.org/Andrew_Garbarino

[Rep. Andrew Garbarino - American Flood Coalition]
Andrew Garbarino is a New York Congressman, representing Long Island’s South Shore in the U.S. House of Representatives. Garbarino grew up in Sayville, New York, before attending George Washington University to receive a Bachelor of Arts degree in history and classical humanities.
URL: https://floodcoalition.org/members/andrew-garbarino/

[Andrew R. Garbarino]
Nov 5, 2025 · BACKGROUND Garbarino, 40, of Patchogue, took office in Congress in 2021. He had previously served four two-year terms in the State Assembly. He graduated from Sayville High School, where he participated in student government and worked at a hardware store. Garbarino graduated from George Washington University in Washington, D.C., with a bachelor’s degree, and received his law degree from ...
URL: https://projects.newsday.com/voters-guide/profile/andrew-r-garbarino

[13 Facts About Andrew Garbarino - FactSnippet]
13 Facts About Andrew Garbarino 1. Andrew Reed Garbarino is an American attorney and politician serving as the US representative for New York's 2nd congressional district since 2021. 2. Andrew Garbarino graduated from Sayville High School and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in history and classical humanities from George Washington University. 3.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-andrew-garbarino.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Andrew Garbarino - Wikipedia] ---
Andrew Reed Garbarino ( GAR-bə-REE-noh; born September 27, 1984) is an American attorney and politician serving as the U.S. representative for New York's 2nd congressional district since 2021. A member of the Republican Party, he served as the New York State Assemblyman for the 7th district from 2013 to 2020.
A moderate Republican, Garbarino is known for frequently breaking with his party on high-profile issues. In 2021, he voted with Democrats to help pass the Bipartisan Background Checks Act and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and supported the creation of a commission to investigate the January 6 Capitol attack. In 2022, he voted in favor of the Respect for Marriage Act. In 2023, he was one of 18 Republicans who voted against Jim Jordan's nomination for Speaker of the House all three times.
In July 2025, he became the Chair of the House Homeland Security Committee following the resignation of Mark Green.


--- [Andrew Garbarino - Ballotpedia] ---
No content


--- [Rep. Andrew Garbarino - American Flood Coalition] ---
No content


--- [Andrew R. Garbarino] ---
Andrew R. Garbarino Andrew R. Garbarino is running for U.S. Congress - 2nd District BACKGROUND Garbarino, 40, of Patchogue, took office in Congress in 2021. He had previously served four two-year terms in the State Assembly. He graduated from Sayville High School, where he participated in student government and worked at a hardware store. Garbarino graduated from George Washington University in Washington, D.C., with a bachelor’s degree, and received his law degree from Hofstra University. He is an attorney.. ISSUES Garbarino said he will fight inflation that he blames on Democratic spending policies. Garbarino said he will seek to restore full deductibility on federal income taxes of New Yorkers’ state and local taxes, known as SALT, that were reduced under a Republican tax package during the Trump administration. He said he supports finishing the wall along the southern U.S. border that was begun during the Trump administration. A previous version of this profile listed the wrong year Garbarino was elected to Congress. Sarra Sounds Off Ep. 10: Playoff football matchups On the latest episode of "Sarra Sounds Off," Gregg Sarra takes a look at the second round of football playoffs, plus Jared Valluzzi and Jonthan Ruban highlight the plays of the week.


--- [13 Facts About Andrew Garbarino - FactSnippet] ---
Andrew Reed Garbarino is an American attorney and politician serving as the US representative for New York's 2nd congressional district since 2021. 13 Facts About Andrew Garbarino Andrew Garbarino graduated from Sayville High School and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in history and classical humanities from George Washington University. Andrew Garbarino then earned a Juris Doctor from Hofstra University School of Law. Andrew Garbarino's family owns numerous small businesses in communities from Bay Shore to Patchogue. Andrew Garbarino was reelected three times, in 2014,2016, and 2018. Andrew Garbarino was a member of the New York Conference of Italian-American State Legislators as an assemblyman. On January 6,2021, Andrew Garbarino did not object to the Electoral College results, saying:. In March 2021, Andrew Garbarino was one of eight House Republicans to vote for the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2021. Andrew Garbarino voted against the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, as did every congressional Republican. On May 19,2021, Andrew Garbarino was one of 35 Republicans who joined all Democrats in voting to approve legislation to establish the January 6,2021 commission meant to investigate the storming of the US Capitol. On November 5,2021, Andrew Garbarino was one of 13 House Republicans who voted with a majority of Democrats in favor of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. In October 2023, Andrew Garbarino was one of 18 Republicans who voted against Jim Jordan's nomination for Speaker of the House all three times. In 2021, Andrew Garbarino co-sponsored the Fairness for All Act, the Republican alternative to the Equality Act.
