=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Saba Valadkhan - Wikipedia]
Saba Valadkhan (Persian: صبا ولدخان) is an Iranian American biomedical scientist, and an Assistant Professor and RNA researcher at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. [1] In 2005, she was awarded the GE / Science Young Scientist Award for her breakthrough in understanding the mechanism of spliceosomes - "akin to finding the Holy Grail of the splicing catalysis field ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saba_Valadkhan

[Saba Valadkhan - Wikiwand]
Saba Valadkhan (Persian: صبا ولدخان) is an Iranian American biomedical scientist, and an Assistant Professor and RNA researcher at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. [1] In 2005, she was awarded the GE / Science Young Scientist Award for her breakthrough in understanding the mechanism of spliceosomes - "akin to finding the Holy Grail of the splicing catalysis field ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Saba_Valadkhan

[Saba Valadkhan Facts for Kids]
Saba Valadkhan is an Iranian American biomedical scientist. She is a professor and RNA researcher at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. In 2005, she received a special award for her amazing discovery about how spliceosomes work. Scientists called her discovery "like finding the Holy Grail" because it was so important.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Saba_Valadkhan

[Grokipedia: Saba Valadkhan]
Learn more about Saba Valadkhan on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Saba_Valadkhan

[Sajjad Moazeni receives NSF CAREER award to help make the next generation of AI supercomputers faste]
Sajjad Moazeni receives NSF CAREER award to help make the next generation of AI supercomputers faster and more powerful and energy efficient UW Department of Electrical Computer Engineering.
URL: https://www.ece.uw.edu/spotlight/moazeni-nsf-career-award/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Saba Valadkhan - Wikipedia] ---
Saba Valadkhan (Persian: صبا ولدخان) is an Iranian American biomedical scientist, and an Assistant Professor and RNA researcher at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. In 2005, she was awarded the GE / Science Young Scientist Award for her breakthrough in understanding the mechanism of spliceosomes - "akin to finding the Holy Grail of the splicing catalysis field"  - a critical area of research, given that "20 percent or 30 percent of all human genetic diseases are caused by mistakes that the spliceosome makes".


--- [Saba Valadkhan - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Saba Valadkhan Facts for Kids] ---
Saba Valadkhan facts for kids Quick facts for kids Saba Valadkhan | | |---|---| | Alma mater | Columbia University | | Scientific career | | | Institutions | Case Western Reserve University | | Thesis | Catalytic and folding properties of protein-free spliceosomal snRNSs (2003) | Saba Valadkhan is an Iranian American biomedical scientist. She is a professor and RNA researcher at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. In 2005, she received a special award for her amazing discovery about how spliceosomes work. Scientists called her discovery "like finding the Holy Grail" because it was so important. Understanding spliceosomes is key, as many human genetic diseases happen when spliceosomes make mistakes. Early Life and Education Saba Valadkhan became a medical doctor in Iran in 1996. She studied at Tehran University of Medical Sciences. After that, she moved to America to continue her studies. She earned her Ph.D. at Columbia University in New York. In 2004, she became an Assistant Professor at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. Discovering How Genes Work During her Ph.D. studies, Dr. Valadkhan focused on how small nuclear RNAs help the human spliceosome. Think of the spliceosome as a tiny, super-smart machine inside our cells. Its job is to edit our genes. Genes are like instruction manuals for our bodies. Sometimes, these manuals have extra parts that need to be cut out. This cutting and pasting process is called splicing. Dr. Valadkhan's main goal was to figure out exactly how the spliceosome does its job. She created a simpler version of the spliceosome in her lab. This mini-spliceosome had only two special RNA molecules. Even with just these two parts, it could do the same cutting and pasting job as a full spliceosome! This discovery was a huge deal. It showed that RNA molecules, not just proteins, are the main workers in the spliceosome. This helped answer a big question scientists had for a long time. Her simple system also gave other scientists a new way to study how spliceosomes work. This research is very important because it helps us understand and maybe even fix genetic diseases. Awards and Recognitions Dr. Valadkhan has received many awards for her important scientific work. - In 2004, she was given the Harold Weintraub award. This was for her excellent Ph.D. research. - Also in 2004, she was named a Searle Scholar. This is a special award for young scientists doing exciting research. - She also won the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Young Scientist Grand Prize in the same year. - In 2006, she became a founding member of the Rosalind Franklin Society. This group honors women in science. - She also received the Nsoroma Award from the Cleveland Chapter of the National Technical Association in 2006. See also - List of famous Iranian women


--- [Grokipedia: Saba Valadkhan] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Sajjad Moazeni receives NSF CAREER award to help make the next generation of AI supercomputers faste] ---
By Wayne Gillam | UW ECE News UW ECE Assistant Professor Sajjad Moazeni was recently named recipient of a National Science Foundation (NSF) CAREER award, one of the most prestigious awards in the nation for early-career faculty. The award will support Moazeni’s work developing ‘smart,’ energy-efficient links between thousands of networked computer processors and memory units connected by optical fiber — the ‘brain’ of an AI supercomputer. These smart, optical interconnects will not only function as a bridge between electrical and photonic (light) signals but will also increase computing speed and capacity needed to develop the next generation of artificial intelligence and machine learning applications. Moazeni’s research will help to empower AI supercomputers to tackle some of the most complex problems facing our world today, while at the same time, reduce the technology’s environmental impact through greater energy efficiency. “I am thrilled and honored to have my proposal selected for funding since it allows my group to work on future AI supercomputers,” Moazeni said. The NSF selects award recipients who are faculty members at the beginning of their careers to lead advances in the mission of their department or organization. The intent of the NSF CAREER program is to provide stable support, enabling awardees to develop not only as outstanding researchers, but also as educators demonstrating commitment to teaching, learning and dissemination of knowledge. The award spans five years, and it will enable Moazeni to better integrate his research and education efforts. Smart, energy-efficient optical interconnects Our world’s problems are increasingly complex, but AI and machine learning applications, including AI supercomputers, are being developed to help us address many of these tough challenges. For example, more accurate climate-change modeling, sustainable supply-chain logistics and faster drug development could all be made possible by faster and more powerful AI and machine learning applications. AI supercomputers could also facilitate significant advances in natural language processing and speech recognition, enabling our smartphones and other devices such as Alexa to better understand and enhance our everyday lives. However, the size and complexity of AI and machine learning models and datasets needed for these sorts of applications are growing at an exponential rate. This means substantial increases in computing speed, capacity and energy efficiency will be needed to make the next generation of AI supercomputers a reality. “Advanced learning models for AI and machine learning systems are so large that they have recently reached trillions of parameters, terabytes of data that need processing,” Moazeni said. “Pretty much the only way to handle this type of computation is to run it over thousands of processors that exist in data centers in the cloud — a supercomputer. Recent research has shown that we need to improve communication links between all these processors to better support this level of computing.” Moazeni’s research seeks to address computing speed and capacity by redesigning the optical interconnects on a chip (known as ‘co-packaged optics’) and by using a novel system-level architecture to enable the interconnects to function as more than simply a converter between electrical and photonic signals. These new, co-packaged optics will have enhanced capabilities, enabling them to assist processors with computing tasks, as well as memory access and data retrieval across a large network of devices. Energy efficiency will be improved by moving power-hungry circuitry from the electrical domain into reconfigurable photonic devices, radically transforming signal equalization techniques and markedly reducing power consumption. “I would consider co-packaged optics commercialized over the next five to 10 years the ‘current generation,’ even though it’s not yet in the marketplace,” Moazeni said. “For the next generation after that, we’ll need to improve the energy efficiency by at least a factor of 10, so that’s what I and my research team are setting out to achieve.” Teaching about the intersection of integrated circuits and photonics As part of the education component supported by the award, Moazeni will be developing a course for graduate and advanced undergraduate students that will help bridge the gap between integrated circuits and photonics. “In this course, I’ll be giving an overview of the state of the art of electronic and photonic design, and we’ll go over applications from communications, computing, all the way to bioelectronics and neural photonics,” Moazeni said. “The course is meant to cover the entire space of electronics and photonics. We’ll talk about the challenges, how you can integrate the technology efficiently and the methodology of designing such systems.” Moazeni has already been teaching a version of this course at UW ECE over the last two years, but he plans to update and expand the course according to the research that is supported by the NSF award. Curriculum and materials for teaching the course will also be made publicly available. “We’re going to put all the course materials online, and I would be happy to help any other school or university that would like to offer this course,” Moazeni said. “As far as I know, there is no other school that offers a course like this, so it could be something that would potentially benefit a lot of other universities and schools.” Moazeni is also in the midst of forming plans for other educational outreach efforts, which potentially will include school visits by members of his research team and lab tours for college-level and K–12 students. According to Moazeni, inclusive access for undergraduate and graduate students will continue to remain a priority for him and his research lab, which already includes a high percentage of students from underrepresented groups. “It’s clear that we need more powerful computers for AI and machine learning development, and that the type of computers we’ll need in the future could benefit greatly from co-packaged optics. Marrying electronic and photonic technology together will be necessary for solving many upcoming challenges,” Moazeni said. “There is also a real need to train researchers and engineers from diverse backgrounds to develop skills in both areas, so they can build more powerful computers capable of transforming all our lives for the better.” To learn more about the research, education and outreach programs supported by this NSF CAREER award, contact Sajjad Moazeni.
