=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gliese 367 b - Wikipedia]
The exoplanet takes just 7.7 hours to orbit its star, one of the shortest orbits of any planet. [1] As of 2025, Gliese 367 b is the smallest known exoplanet within 10 parsecs of the Solar System that has a measured radius, [6] though Proxima Centauri d and the planets of Barnard's Star are less massive and could be smaller.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gliese_367_b

[List of smallest exoplanets]
Gliese 367 b (Tahay), 0.699±0.024 · Smallest exoplanet within 10 parsecs with a measured radius. · 0.633 ; Kepler-2003b (KOI-4978.02), 0.7±0.1.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_smallest_exoplanets

[Exoplanet Catalog - NASA Science]
Feb 6, 2026 · This exoplanet encyclopedia — continuously updated, with more than 6,000 entries — combines interactive 3D models and detailed data on all confirmed exoplanets.
URL: https://science.nasa.gov/exoplanets/exoplanet-catalog/

[Gliese 367 b - Wikiwand]
As of 2022[update], Gliese 367 b is the smallest known exoplanet within 10 parsecs of the Solar System, [6] and the second-least massive after Proxima Centauri d.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/GJ_367b

[What is the smallest known planet? | Space]
Mar 11, 2024 · The solar system's largest planet, Jupiter, could fit over 1,300 Earths inside it. But Earth isn't the smallest planet in the solar system; that title went to Mercury after Pluto was relegated to ...
URL: https://www.space.com/smallest-known-planet


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gliese 367 b - Wikipedia] ---
Gliese 367 b, formally named Tahay, is a sub-Earth exoplanet orbiting the red dwarf star Gliese 367 (GJ 367), 30.7 light-years (9.4 parsecs) from Earth in the constellation of Vela. The exoplanet takes just 7.7 hours to orbit its star, one of the shortest orbits of any planet.
As of 2025, Gliese 367 b is the smallest known exoplanet within 10 parsecs of the Solar System that has a measured radius, though Proxima Centauri d and the planets of Barnard's Star are less massive and could be smaller.


--- [List of smallest exoplanets] ---
Below is a list of the smallest exoplanets so far discovered, in terms of physical size, ordered by radius.


--- [Exoplanet Catalog - NASA Science] ---
This exoplanetary encyclopedia — continuously updated, with more than 6,000 entries — combines interactive 3D models and detailed data on all confirmed exoplanets. When you select a planet’s name, see a visualization of each world and system, along with vital statistics. Filter by exoplanet type, by discovery method, or by the mission or facility that found it. Gas Giant exoplanets are as massive as Saturn or Jupiter, or larger; this category also includes "hot Jupiters," which orbit close to their stars (artist's concept). For each exoplanet listed above, the thumbnail image (artist's concept) links to an interactive 3D representation of the planet. When you get to that detail page with the 3D visualization, learn more about the exoplanet — including how long it would take to get there from Earth — by selecting the plus sign next to the exoplanet's name. Do NASA Science and Explore Key Questions about the Universe! 01 Exoplanet Watch NASA invites people of all ages and backgrounds to participate in authentic NASA research via "citizen science" or "participatory science" projects, where volunteers and amateurs have helped make thousands of important scientific discoveries. As a part of the Exoplanet Watch project, you'll help scientists track and study exoplanets as they transit in front of stars. Do you have your own telescope? You can help observe newly discovered exoplanets and collect information about their transits to help characterize their orbits. UNITE participants coordinate with other citizen scientists and researchers around the globe to track and learn about these new worlds.


--- [Gliese 367 b - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [What is the smallest known planet? | Space] ---
What is the smallest known planet? Although Kepler 37-b has held the title of "smallest planet" for over a decade, it won't hold that designation forever. Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful Want to add more newsletters? By most measures, Earth is small. The solar system's largest planet, Jupiter, could fit over 1,300 Earths inside it. But Earth isn't the smallest planet in the solar system; that title went to Mercury after Pluto was relegated to a dwarf planet in 2006. But are there even smaller planets out there? And, if so, do we know of any? Unsurprisingly, very small exoplanets, or planets orbiting other stars, are extremely hard to spot. But of the ones scientists have found, the smallest is Kepler 37-b. Discovered in 2013 by scientists using data from the Kepler space telescope, it is smaller than Mercury and about the same size as Earth's moon. "We were finding quite a few Earth-sized things, but not very much smaller than that," said Thomas Barclay, an astrophysicist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center and first author of the 2013 paper that first identified the planet. "It was kind of an outlier." Related: A dwarf planet beyond Neptune has a mysterious ring that astronomers can't explain Like all exoplanets discovered by the Kepler space telescope, Kepler 37-b was detected using a technique called the transit method. As faraway planets orbit their stars, they transit — or pass in front of — their stars, creating a slight dimming of the star. For stars and planets in the right position relative to our solar system, scientists can analyze the dimming and infer not only the existence of a planet but also some of its properties — what it's made of, its distance from its star, and its size. As its name suggests, this tiny exoplanet orbits the star Kepler-37, which is about 209 light-years from Earth. Kepler-37 is the same general type of star as the sun, but it's slightly smaller and cooler. It also hosts three other planets, though none are as small as Kepler 37-b. To confirm the size of Kepler-37 — and, therefore, the size of Kepler 37-b — Barclay said his team worked with colleagues who used asteroseismology, the analysis of the natural oscillations in a star's brightness. Kepler 37-b is rocky and much closer to its star than Earth — or even Mercury — is to the sun. Therefore, Kepler 37-b takes only 13.4 Earth days to orbit its star. Like Mercury, it likely has an extremely harsh surface and no atmosphere. Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! But is Kepler 37-b really a planet? It certainly isn't like any of the planets in the solar system. In fact, the definition of a planet is tailored mostly to our solar system, Barclay said. According to the International Astronomical Union, a planet must orbit a star, be large enough to have coalesced into a spherical shape, and clear its orbit and surrounding area of any objects of similar size. With exoplanets, it's harder to say for sure, and it can be especially difficult to tell if an exoplanet is truly clearing debris and similarly sized objects from its orbit, Barclay said. But with Kepler 37-b, there isn't much doubt, he added. "It's big enough, and has enough gravity; it's close enough to its star that it would clear out an area of influence," he said. "So it certainly would be considered a planet by any definition." Although Kepler 37-b has held the title of "smallest planet" for over a decade, it won't hold that designation forever, Barclay said. Since the Kepler space telescope was retired in 2018, scientists have been devising new ways to discover exoplanets, including the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope, for which Barclay is the operations scientist. The telescope, scheduled for launch by May 2027, will use a technique called microlensing, a type of gravitational lensing, to find exoplanets. Microlensing events happen when a star's gravity bends the light from a more distant, unrelated background star around it. If the alignment is perfect, the closer star works as a lens for the background star, magnifying its light. If the closer star has a planet, the light is amplified more. Scientists can analyze the minute spike in light to infer the properties of any exoplanets orbiting the closer star. According to NASA, the Roman telescope may find about 2,600 exoplanets by scanning the skies for these microlensing events. The new telescope "almost certainly is going to find planets smaller than this one," Barclay said. Rebecca Sohn is a freelance science writer. She writes about a variety of science, health and environmental topics, and is particularly interested in how science impacts people's lives. She has been an intern at CalMatters and STAT, as well as a science fellow at Mashable. Rebecca, a native of the Boston area, studied English literature and minored in music at Skidmore College in Upstate New York and later studied science journalism at New York University.
