=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? - GoodTo]
Jan 23, 2023 · With season 2 of Happy Valley being filmed over 7 years ago, we'll forgive you for not remembering more of Alison's season 2 arc. So we've shared what exactly went down at that farm in the last series and why Alison killed her son - as viewers patiently wait till Happy Valley is next on.
URL: https://www.goodto.com/entertainment/why-did-alison-kill-son-happy-valley

[Series 2 Episode 6 | Happy Valley Wikia | Fandom]
Series 2 Episode 6 ... Catherine and Shaf call in at Far Sunderland farm to visit Alison and Daryl, but discover a scene of carnage when they enter the building, with Alison slumped on the dining table covered in blood having taken an overdose.
URL: https://happy-valley.fandom.com/wiki/Series_2_Episode_6

[Happy Valley S2:E6 Series 2 Finale Recap - Ginges Be Cray]
Mar 16, 2016 · So this is it. The very last known episode of Happy Valley to date and now we find out at least some of what’s happened with our Catherine and everything else. Right, this is Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire)’s patch, let’s find out how this series ends. Last week we left Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch) shooting her son Daryl (Robert Emms) after his nocturnal homicidal confessions, John ...
URL: https://gingesbecray.com/happy-valley-s2e6-series-2-finale-recap/

[Happy Valley recap: Everything to remember about season 1 and 2]
Dec 27, 2022 · Throughout series two, Catherine investigated a series of killings that were revealed to have been committed by Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms), a young local farmer. He confessed to his mother Alison (Susan Lynch) who, wanting him to avoid jail time, shot him dead. After Alison survived an overdose, Catherine arrested her.
URL: https://uk.news.yahoo.com/happy-valley-recap-everything-remember-123448223.html

[What Happened in 'Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before ...]
Apr 24, 2023 · After a hiatus of seven years, Happy Valley is coming back to American TV for a third and final season, premiering on BBC America on Monday, May 22, at 10/9c, with episodes streaming the same day ...
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/1090397/happy-valley-seasons-1-2-recap-final-ending/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? - GoodTo] ---
Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? Recapping that devastating season 2 moment Parenting advice, hot topics, best buys and family finance tips delivered straight to your inbox. You are now subscribed Your newsletter sign-up was successful WARNING: This article contains information that some readers might find distressing. As viewers get their teeth into Happy Valley season 3, some have needed a refresher on the events that came before - including how did Becky die and where we've seen returning character Alison Garrs before. Featuring prominently in the current season, some may recall Alison was a main character with a harrowing storyline in the second series - that involved the death of her son Daryl. With season 2 of Happy Valley being filmed over 7 years ago, we'll forgive you for not remembering more of Alison's season 2 arc. So we've shared what exactly went down at that farm in the last series and why Alison killed her son - as viewers patiently wait till Happy Valley is next on. Why did Alison kill her son in Happy Valley? In Happy Valley season 2, Alison killed her son Daryl after he admitted to murdering three sex workers. Seen as a mercy killing - Alison shot her son in the head as she believed he wouldn't survive the ordeal of life imprisonment. The night before his murder, Daryl (played by Robert Emms) heads to his mother's bedroom in the middle of the night, wakes her and confesses to "doing bad things". "Have you hurt someone?" she says, adding "Is it to do with those women". Earlier that day Alison questioned her son about the damage to his van after learning of a hit-and-run appeal following the latest murder. Back to the present and Daryl says he doesn't know why he did it. Though Alison had her own suspicions of Daryl being linked to the spree of sex worker killings in Calder Valley, the news nevertheless comes as a shock. The two decant downstairs where they discuss his crimes further. "You'll visit me in prison," he asks her, viewing it as his only option. "I don't think you'll like prison," Alison replies, deep in thought, as she tries to rack her brain for an alternative. The next morning on the farm, Daryl arrives downstairs to a full fry up on the kitchen table. He takes a seat and starts to tuck in, whilst his mother starts the conversation. "So I've got a plan. You've always wanted to go to America haven't you?" she says. Parenting advice, hot topics, best buys and family finance tips delivered straight to your inbox. Alison goes on to explain she's got savings and passports and that the two could jet off to America and try their luck before the police catch up with them. A convinced Daryl talks of Las Vegas and seeing the desert. Alison then retreats from the kitchen to pick up the rifle, but continues talk of the dream trip, asking her son what else he'd like to see. "Florida, California," he continues. "Can we go to Disneyland?" The audience then sees Alison aim the rifle at the back of Daryl's head. The action jumps to outside the farmhouse now, and after a loud bang, we see blood splatter on the kitchen windows. A vulnerable and child-like lad who is something of an outsider - having been isolated on the farm - it's thought that Daryl's mother Alison deemed him not strong enough to deal with prison life and how he'd fare amongst other inmates. This is why she ultimately decides to end his life instead. In the season two finale, Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) arrives at the farm. She finds Alison barely responsive at the kitchen table, having taken a concoction of pills and alcohol in an overdose attempt. Catherine rescues and later arrests the grieving mother after she confirms that it was her who shot Daryl. As the investigation unfolds, the audience learns (via Catherine) the gruesome reality of Alison and Daryl's life. It turns out Alison was raped by her father, resulting in her pregnancy with Daryl. This therefore confirms that Daryl was Alison's half brother as well as her son. Who plays Alison in Happy Valley? Alison Garrs is played by Northern-Irish actress Susan Lynch. The 51-year-old is best known for her TV roles in Apple Tree Yard, Killing Eve and Monroe, and for playing Miss Lawton in Downton Abbey. In 2003 she also picked up the British Independent Film Award for Best Supporting Actress for the 2003 film 16 Years of Alcohol. As for her personal life, Lynch was previously married to Line of Duty's Craig Parkinson - with whom they share a son. The two separated in 2019. Susan is also the younger sister of fellow actor John Lynch. Alison's role in Happy Valley season 3 Viewers saw Susan Lynch return as Alison Garrs in Happy Valley season 3. Just released from prison, Catherine catches up with her as she's moving into a new flat and trying to rebuild her life. In episode three, Catherine pops round with some clothes and other things she's donated to help get Alison on her feet. She asks Alison for a favour - to borrow her blue van for an afternoon. Catherine fills Alison in on her plan which is to use the car to follow Claire, Neil and Ryan as they travel to Sheffield prison to see Tommy. Sadly for Catherine the trip proves exactly what she was dreading - that Ryan is seeing his dad again and that all three of them lied to her about doing it. When is Happy Valley next on? Episode 5 of Happy Valley will next air on Sunday 29 January at 9pm on BBC One. Season 3 consists of 6 episodes in total, which means the next episode is the grand finale. If you need to catch up on the current season, you can find all released episodes of Happy Valley on BBC iPlayer. The streaming service also has the whole Happy Valley season one and season two boxset - if you'd like to go back and refresh your memory on what happened prior to the latest series. Video of the Week Emily Stedman is the former Features Editor for GoodTo covering all things TV, entertainment, royal, lifestyle, health and wellbeing. Boasting an encyclopaedic knowledge on all things TV, celebrity and royals, career highlights include working at HELLO! Magazine and as a royal researcher to Diana biographer Andrew Morton on his book Meghan: A Hollywood Princess. In her spare time, Emily can be found eating her way around London, swimming at her local Lido or curled up on the sofa binging the next best Netflix show.


--- [Series 2 Episode 6 | Happy Valley Wikia | Fandom] ---
| Series 2 Episode 6 | | |---|---| | Episode number | 12 | | Directed by | Sally Wainwright | | Written by | Sally Wainwright | | Air date | 15 March 2016 | | Episode chronology | | | ← Previous "Series 2 Episode 5" | Next → "Series 3 Episode 1" | | Series 2 | Catherine and Shaf call in at Far Sunderland farm to visit Alison and Daryl, but discover a scene of carnage when they enter the building, with Alison slumped on the dining table covered in blood having taken an overdose. Meanwhile, Andy and Jodie begin to suspect that the person who killed Vicky Fleming could be someone on the team and as the investigation heads towards a conclusion, John's torment increases, leading him to take drastic measures to avoid the consequences of his actions. Last in the series.


--- [Happy Valley S2:E6 Series 2 Finale Recap - Ginges Be Cray] ---
So this is it. The very last known episode of Happy Valley to date and now we find out at least some of what’s happened with our Catherine and everything else. Right, this is Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire)’s patch, let’s find out how this series ends. Last week we left Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch) shooting her son Daryl (Robert Emms) after his nocturnal homicidal confessions, John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle from Downton Abbey!) flexing on his wife Amanda (Julie Hesmondhalgh from Broadchurch series 3!) and then deflating like a balloon at the news of another body. We also saw wee Ryan Cawood (Rhys Connah) sending a letter to his dad, thanks to the ever-helpful Miss Weiland (Shirley Henderson – Moaning Mrytle!), who Catherine has only just identified as the racetrack purchaser. We also saw perhaps the birth of a new power couple, whom Dixie has dubbed Gawood, given Catherine and Ann Gallagher’s (Charlie Murphy) booze-soaked cuddle last time. A couple of things I would like to clarify before we jump straight in; I said last week that while Neil Ackroyd (Con O’Neill) was always a suspect to me because of his disturbed affect around Catherine, I forgot to say why I don’t think he did the murders. It’s because we know he didn’t kill Vicky (Amelia Bullmore!), who would be the presumed catalyst for him becoming a murderer. It would be a hell of a coincidence if she just ended up being part of a bunch of poor women lumped in with his kills, you know? Another thing that’s bothering me is that this murderer is supposed to be be quite organized, DNA and evidence savvy. Daryl…well, he got rid of his car, right enough, but. You know? A truly organized killer would have been able to maybe take advantage of the fact that someone was in custody for the rest, not go and get Sean Balmforth (Matthew Lewis – Neville Longbottom!) off the hook almost immediately. I’m picking at straws here, I know, just the little things. On we go! Catherine is at the school, talking to the Headmistress (I don’t know if that’s her role but I’ve always wanted to use that title), explaining about the situation and showing her the pictures of the racetrack purchase and why not just bring in the helpful Miss Weiland? Catherine has seen Frances at Lynne Dewhurt’s funeral and this part will all be done. Mrs. Beresford (Olwen May) wants to know why anyone would do such an insidious thing, Catherine says “because people are weird. People are mad. And they don’t always have it tattooed across their foreheads” and if we weren’t only two and a half minutes in, I’d call that the line of the night. Mrs. Beresford offers to bring Miss Weiland of the excellent CV in, but Catherine needs to let the DIU handle it, she can’t be involved, and really, she just wants the school to find someone else to read with Ryan, so he doesn’t keep coming home with the idea that his dad is a bit of all right and she’s just a nasty bitch trying to keep he and Ryan apart. The Headmistress only nods; knowing what Catherine’s really saying. Parenting is hard, even without a murderer in the family. Holy shite and it doesn’t matter anyway, as Catherine is leaving, Frances is walking in, both the film and my heart slows down as they walk by each other and I swear I am all chicken skin and every hair sticking up. Catherine knows. Catherine and Shafiq Shah (Shanze Zaza) roll up on the Sunderland farm, and hey! There’s Daryl’s car back and the front end is all bashed up. I thought he got rid of it. Catherine knocks and they enter to find…holy feck. Alison killed Daryl and then tried to kill herself and they don’t know what’s going on. She’s tried to overdose and it’s so fcuking bloody. It’s carnage. Catherine is trying to walk Alison around a bit, maybe to get the drugs working and out of her system, but Shafiq doesn’t think they should touch anything “oh man up Princess, use your initiative” snaps Catherine and that would be a great gif if it didn’t feature an Alison covered in blood and brains front and center. Backup isn’t coming for another 16 minutes, so Catherine has Shah call the paramedics for advice about to treat someone who has ingested a bunch of diezapan, whiskey and vodka. They need to induce vomiting and then put her in the recovery position; Shafiq goes back inside while Catherine does her best to explain to Alison about throwing up while grudgingly digging in her pouch for rubber gloves. Alison is able to speak a bit, and she tells Catherine SHE shot Daryl, astounding Catherine. Alison leans forward to throw up and suddenly, the Peugot is in view and Catherine knows exactly what’s happened. She radios Operation Syracuse to check out Daryl’s car and gently holds Alison in her arms while cautioning and arresting her for murder. Why am I crying?? Catherine cradling that woman covered in blood and resting her head on her crown and she just. She knows and she understands and I wonder about Becky and why am I still crying?? I can’t think of a way that could have done better, it was brutal and tragic and just. Magic Wait a minute, I cried during Girls this week too, let me get a calendar, no, forget THAT, it’s just. So well done. Back at Operation Syracuse, John is looking like wallpaper paste again, watching Jodie Shackleton (Katherine Kelly) and the lead talk across the office. Jodie fills him in on the developments at the Sunderland Farm, you can see hope spring up in John again. He’s gonna have a heart attack just from each of these up and downs. How can no-one have noticed his AFFECT?? Maybe Jodie has, because she lies to John and says Daryl DIDN’T cop to Vicky Fleming. And maybe he did say that, maybe we didn’t see that, but I am wondering if she’s winding him up. He swallows his tongue again as she goes on to explain that Daryl only murdered that last victim because he was angry that people thought he DID kill Vicky. There’s the blood of two people on John’s hands now. The investigation will now focus on Vicky’s mysterious boyfriend and John moves in slow motion to retrieve his notebook to head down to the briefing. In the changing room, Catherine breaks down and we take another minute to cry. In walks Mike Taylor (Rick Warden), who knows just what’s up, asking if she’s okay, is she still seeing that therapist: YES. Back off, Mike, she’s just seen someone murder their own child, she who has held onto every scrap of Becky she can. He says there is news, they’ve identified the racetrack purchaser as Frances Drummond, but Catherine wants to know how she has an excellent CV as Miss Weiland with references? Mrs. Beresford would have checked. Clare Cawood (Siobhan Finneran) is sunning herself at the allotment when her phone rings, startling her into a crotch of hot tea. It’s Catherine, and she explains to Clare and us how the resourceful Frances was able to impersonate Miss Weiland of the excellent references: Miss Weiland is dead. Now. Did Frances kill her, or was it just a happy coincidence that someone with the exact credentials she needed to get close to our Ryan happened to die conveniently? Turns out Frances is a pharmacist and that made my ears go up. No, I need to shut up and just watch, Cecily Weiland was Frances’s sister and she stole documentation while comforting Cecily’s bereft husband. Lead investigator Andy Shepherd (Vincent Franklin – couldn’t take it any more, I didn’t think they’d take this long to say his name anywhere near the camera and I FINK this is the guy in IMDB) is on scene at the farm; he’s twigged that it MUST be someone connected to the investigation (DNA awareness and the, er, bottling) and he asks Jodie to think about it while she’s sitting directly across from John who pretends to not be listening and tries not to poop his pants. Andy asks Jodie to run through a scenario in which he would do the murder; everyone has it in them, he figures: why would he? She’s talking out loud, bringing John’s ears up even more, but then Andy cuts to the chase: John’s number was in Vicky’s phone. Frances is arrested summarily for fraud, she sags but still insists to Mrs. Beresford that Ryan needs someone to talk to. I’m more concerned about Catherine, who says someone may need to pop ’round to Upper Brunswick Street to suggest the resourceful Miss Drummond head back to Scotland after she gets out on bail. Clare distracts by saying that Winnie (Angela Pleasence) has found Ilinka (Ivana Basic) a job cleaning at White Lion, one of the neighbours has found it so it’s probably legit. Catherine is off reliving the horror of the morning again, she can’t believe someone would kill their own child. And that all Alison was worried about was that Daryl didn’t want anyone thinking she’d killed Vicky Fleming, because THAT makes a difference. Catherine is indeed staking out Frances’s house on Upper Brunswick street, but she doesn’t want to frighten Frances, she wants to understand why. And she wants Frances to understand what has really happened with Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton). Frances lets her in and they have an extremely tense conversation and I know Catherine can take care of herself, but I spent most of the time measuring the distance between her and Frances. You cannot discount desperation, as we found with John, OR the wiry strength of a person whose first love, found late in life, is being threatened by an force made corporeal in Catherine. I hate it when Catherine closes her eyes! Ergh! Neil and Clare are watching the news, OH GREAT THANKS FOR PUTTING ANDY SHEPHERD’S NAME ACROSS THE TICKER LIKE THAT IN EPISODE 6, VERY HANDY, Neil looks so relaxed…and then the extra appeal for information about Vicky. Clare comforts Neil and Amanda Wadsworth looks…twigged. Hey! Tesco IS a grocery store, NOT Ryan’s friend, thanks Facebook friend! John is crying in the parking lot, bemoaning how he hasn’t done ANYTHING and well, that’s not exactly right… Much calmer and not-attacked is Catherine, returning home to find Clare and Neil wanting to talk to her about Vicky Fleming. It’s the next morning, Catherine stops John in the hallway to pass on her information to one of “you lot” and poor John, he just gets to hear it all, doesn’t he? She tells him about the whole scam Vicky was running, the blackmail and everything else and now he knows that was a pattern. I don’t think his heart can take much more of this. Catherine notices how pale he is, yay! Someone noticed he looks like he’s been squirting syringes of Drano into his mouth every morning. It’s about time! She carries on, but she’s definitely noticed how odd he is acting and looking; telling Ann she did well to dodge that particular bullet. Ann thinks John was having an affair, though, and there’s a miscommunication and we’re so CLOSE I can almost taste it!! Also close are Ann and Catherine in the hallway; Dixie’s got me measuring that distance now too! John holds onto Neil’s contact information, trying to work up the nerve to bring it into Andy and not throw up at the same time and then Jodie walks in there and his nerve fails. That information will bring so much more pressure to bear on this mystery boyfriend. Joyce (Ishia Bennison) is ushering gentleman into the station with a great bloody shiner; is that Amanda’s boyfriend? I only saw him the once, under the sheets, so I can’t be certain. He has information about Victoria Fleming, so maybe he’s another of her victims. Operation Syracuse is investigating two people who have come forward to say they’ve seen Vicky with a man, the publican and a front desk clerk, both of whom John remembers and then it all gets a little echo-y for him. Ann stops Catherine; she’s remembered everything about the house to house and John all jumpy and on his phone and asking about where to find a thousand pounds and thinking he was having an affair. She’s pressing the point that someone inside the investigation would make more sense than OUT of it when Joyce grabs Catherine to come interview Graham Tattersal (Steve Edge), the bloke with the black eye that had information about Vicky; nobody upstairs is available to listen. Catherine tells Ann she’ll pass it along. Graham IS the man under the covers with Amanda! And he remembers very clearly how John came in early at 1 pm on a supposed Ops Night, it was “exciting” and Catherine thinks it’s a bit ridiculous, until he gives John’s name. Catherine is walking through the station with Graham while John gets his things and runs. Full out, he’s gone and now everything is out. She radios and jumps in with the young office who was such a wanker so many episodes ago (careful now, Cawood’s got a bottle in her hand!), who is in the right place for once in his life. Jodie and Andy stare at each other. John is at a dead end at the rain station, but he can’t stop, and I think he’s armed! He runs on foot now, through the woods to another dead end on a wall, threatening to jump. She says “it’s not that high, you’re just gonna break your legs and make a mess” and this is why I love Catherine Cawood. John and Catherine are talking, he explains everything and he didn’t get very far, he’s standing up nice and high on a wall right where all the police can see and hear quite clearly from the station. He says he’s not like that, he’s not a monster and I’m reminded of Frances suddenly, who Catherine said the very same thing to. Catherine is trying to talk him off the wall, but the mention of his children brings him to his knees and it’s terrible and funny all at the same time. She asks for advice as to how to handle Suicide Prevention and he tells her she should be telling him he’s going to get out of this alive! And be assertive, Catherine! Assertive but reassuring, empathetic, kind, and John’s done this 17 times and what are you going to do, John? Mess up Catherine’s record up before she’s even started? This scene is why I love Happy Valley He knows, though. He knows that it won’t be better in 24 hours and I knew he was going to roll off the wall from there and I knew also that there would be a vehicle there to make much more of it than a mess. And so it was. Catherine sags to the ground. Too much. Too much. Maybe we both cry. Mike is walking with a recovered Catherine, he says “there but for the grace of God” and she doesn’t agree. She doesn’t think the bottling involved any situational bias. She says she did try to talk him down, you know, she thought she had him coming down and she cries “WHAT A SHIT WEEK!!” It’s about to get worse, and maybe NOT NOW, MIKE! He has information about who else has been visiting Tommy Lee Royce and I wonder if Ryan made it there on his bike. We cut to Tommy Lee Royce being informed that his visits and phone calls have all been suspended pending further inquiry, he takes it with his usual grace under pressure. Good thing there was another officer or it might have gone quite badly for the first. Catherine knocks on Frances’s door again, this time in uniform. She reads off a list of all of Tommy’s other visitors, which are also his fiancées it turns out. Is it illegal to be engaged to several people at once, or is it just the marrying? Some kind of fraud? She tells Frances to take care and takes her leave. Catherine’s at the hospital now, visiting Alison, who is alive and lucid. She tells Alison she can’t begin to understand how she feels, but that she also lost a child and can be depended on at any time to talk. Tommy gets his letters, including the one from Ryan, and smiles. He really is very handsome. Shame about the psychopathy. Catherine is visiting Becky’s grave when Clare comes up, she tells Clare what Alison told her at the hospital. Daryl was a product of child abuse, his dad was also his granddad and she thought maybe he was an aberration, so kept him away from the lads in town, but they sensed it, or something, as teenagers do, and it became a self-fulfilling prophecy: they were outcasts. Alison suspected Daryl knew, but she didn’t know how to talk to him: she didn’t have the language. Catherine understands that. They leave the graveyard, Catherine lagging behind while Clare and Daniel tease Ryan about his wanting a dog. It’s more than she not knowing how to bring up the language of rape to our Ryan; he also has one half of the DNA of a rapist / murderer and in the first series…she was worried that some of his more obstreperous goings on at school were related to that. So. We’re out. The whole theme of this series revolved around the Nature vs Nuture debate; what would drive seemingly good people with decent lives to commit heinous acts such as murder, disfigurement, even fraud? Are people born evil, or is there a switch inside us all just waiting to be turned the wrong way? You could argue that there is only one truly evil person: Tommy Lee Royce, although Daryl is certainly in there as well, lacking any empathy or remorse. Everyone else could have gone either way, including Catherine, but as there is one truly evil person, there is one truly good person: our omnipresent and ubiquitous Catherine. That’s it for our Happy Valley series for now; thank you so much for reading. Join me for any of the other shows I recap, House of Cards recaps being starting next week and I am always up for viewing / recapping suggestions for other excellent shows. I will miss you, Sarah Lancashire and fans, be well!


--- [Happy Valley recap: Everything to remember about season 1 and 2] ---
Happy Valley recap: Everything to remember about season 1 and 2 After what feels like forever, Happy Valley is returning for a third series. The brilliant BBC crime drama from Sally Wainwright wedged itself into viewers’ hearts with two series released in 2014 and 2016, respectively. It received further acclaim in the US after being released on Netflix. For some time, it was unknown whether the third series would happen, despite Wainwright’s assurances. But then, in 2021, the new season was officially announced. Now, in the BBC’s first new drama of 2023, Sarah Lancashire’s detective Catherine Cawood will be returning to our screens. Considering it’s been six years, you’re probably in need of a little referesher ahead of the forthcoming episodes. Read on for a recap... Tommy Lee Royce For those who don’t remember, Tommy (James Norton) is the convicted rapist who is believed to have raped Catherine’s daughter, which led to the birth of her son Ryan (Rhys Connah), and later to her suicide. Tommy was sent to prison for abducting and raping a Yorkshire local named Ann Gallagher (Charlie Murphy), and, at the end of series one, abducted Ryan in order to carry out a murder-suicide, which was foiled by Catherine. Tommy spent series two behind bars, but indoctrinated a lady named Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson) to help him make Catherine’s life a misery. Frances, a lonely pharamcist who became a fan of Tommy’s, manipulated the criminal’s young son, and Catherine’s grandson, by writing letters to him in the guise of his father. She also praised Tommy to Ryan while working as a teaching assistant at his school. By the end of series two, Frances realised Tommy had a string of interests in the outside world, and cut ties with him. But this left him enraged as he had viewed Frances as his best bet at tormenting Catherine. However, in the last episode, it was revealed that Frances might have driven the ultimate wedge between Catherine and his son: viewers saw Tommy receiving a letter from Ryan, in which he told his dad he loved him. The conclusion to the mystery killings Throughout series two, Catherine investigated a series of killings that were revealed to have been committed by Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms), a young local farmer. He confessed to his mother Alison (Susan Lynch) who, wanting him to avoid jail time, shot him dead. After Alison survived an overdose, Catherine arrested her. Catherine’s sister Clare’s new romance In series two, Catherine’s sister Clare (Siobhan Finneran) started a romance with an old friend, Neil Ackroyd (Con O’Neill). They are both recovering alcoholics, which concerned Catherine and led to a fall-out between the pair. Both fell off the wagon, with Catherine forced to arrest Neil for drunken behaviour in public. By the end of the series, though, he promised to take good care of Clare. Catherine’s concerns about Ryan The final message of Happy Valley’s second series involved Catherine’s concerns for Ryan. There were several moments that led her to believe her grandson might have an angry streak in him, just like his father. Unbeknownst to Catherine, Ryan was in contact with Tommy, and with six years now gone by in the series, the show will no doubt explore the rippling effect this has had on a now teenage Ryan. Happy Valley returns to BBC One on New Year’s Day.


--- [What Happened in 'Happy Valley' Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before ...] ---
What Happened in ‘Happy Valley’ Seasons 1 & 2? Get Up to Speed Before the Final Season After a hiatus of seven years, Happy Valley is coming back to American TV for a third and final season, premiering on BBC America on Monday, May 22, at 10/9c, with episodes streaming the same day on AMC+ and Acorn TV. The first two seasons of the British crime procedural are currently available on both of those streaming platforms, but in case you don’t have time for a full debrief on the action so far, here’s a recap of Seasons 1 and 2. (Content warning: Happy Valley includes storylines involving sexual assault and suicide.) As the series starts, viewers meet Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire), a police sergeant in a West Yorkshire community beset by drug problems. Catherine’s daughter Becky died by suicide, and Catherine blames a man named Tommy Lee Royce (James Norton) for Becky’s death, since Royce raped Becky. Now Catherine is raising Ryan (Rhys Connah), the child that resulted from that rape, and living with her sister, Clare Cartwright (Siobhan Finneran), who’s recovering from a heroin addiction. Royce is still around town, unfortunately. In fact, he gets involved in a ransom scheme soon after getting out of prison. Accountant Kevin Weatherill (Steve Pemberton) wants more money from his boss, Nevison Gallagher (George Costigan), so he teams up with the criminal Ashley Cowgill (Joe Armstrong) to kidnap Nevison’s daughter, Ann (Charlie Murphy), and demand ransom. Cowgill brings in two goons, Royce and another man named Lewis Whippey (Adam Long). Kevin has a crisis of conscience about the ransom idea, but it comes too late — the criminals have already abducted Ann. So Kevin goes to the police station and starts giving a statement to Catherine, but he leaves before detailing everything. It gets worse: Whippey later discovers that Royce raped Ann as well. Royce also murders police officer Kirsten McAskill (Sophie Rundle), Catherine’s protégé, when she pulls over his van for speeding. After spotting Royce around town, Catherine does some digging and uncovers evidence of the kidnapping. She learns about the abductee when Nevison and his wife finally tell the police about the kidnapping, defying Cowgill’s orders. Catherine visits the house of Royce’s mother’s, Lynn Dewhurst (Caroline O’Neill), and that happens to be where Royce stashed Ann after Cowgill ordered him to kill her. Catherine finds and frees Ann, but Royce attacks her, and the ensuing fight lands Catherine in the hospital. While Catherine recuperates, police arrest Kevin and Cowgill for abduction, but Cowgill snitches about a drug smuggling ring in exchange for witness protection. He never makes it into that protection, though: He’s gunned down by other smugglers before assuming his new identity. As for the other two accomplices, Royce overhears Whippey telling a friend about all the crimes Royce has committed — raping Ann, killing Kirsten, attacking Catherine — and so Royce adds Whippey to his list of murder victims. Royce, who previously let slip to Ryan that he’s his father, then abducts the boy and even threatens to kill him, but Catherine finds Ryan’s bicycle and then Ryan before it’s too late. Season 2 starts with Catherine finding Lynn’s decomposing body. Improbably, Catherine finds herself a suspect in the case — and in two similar killings — because of her animosity toward Royce. And Royce, now imprisoned, also blames Catherine for Lynn’s death. He even makes a lunge at Catherine, despite his handcuffs, at Lynn’s funeral. Viewers also find out in Season 2 that Royce has forged a connection with a woman named Frances Drummond (Shirley Henderson), who’s working under a fake name as a teaching assistant at Ryan’s school. And Frances tries to get Ryan to become closer to Royce, even buying a birthday present for the boy on Royce’s behalf. Frances eventually realizes, though, that she’s not as engaged to Royce as she thinks she is. In fact, Royce is “engaged” to many other women. Meanwhile, a detective sergeant, John Wadsworth (Kevin Doyle), is blackmailed by Vicky Fleming (Amelia Bullmore), his mistress, who tells him to either pay her a ransom each month or leave his wife and children. In an ensuing argument, John strangles and mutilates Vicky and burns down her flat to make her death look like the work of the serial killer who has been murdering sex workers in the region. Eventually, a farmer named Daryl Garrs (Robert Emms) confesses to the crimes to Alison Garrs (Susan Lynch), his mother, who then shoots him dead to save him from a life in prison. Alison then overdoses on diazepam, and Catherine arrives at the farm to find Daryl dead and Alison clinging to life. Catherine arrests Alison, who maintains that Daryl said he wasn’t involved in Vicky’s death. After hearing from Clare’s new boyfriend about Vicky’s blackmailing ways and hearing from others about John’s violent streak, Catherine realizes that John was the one who killed Vicky. She confronts her colleague on a bridge, and he confesses to the killing before jumping to his death. Season 2 ends with Royce receiving a letter in prison from Ryan. And Catherine still has no idea that her grandson is in touch with his criminal father… Happy Valley, Season 3 Premiere, Monday, May 22, 10/9c, BBC America (and streaming on AMC+ and Acorn TV)
