=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Novo Theatre, Dhaka - Wikipedia]
Novo Theatre, Dhaka (formerly Bhasani Novo Theatre and Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre) [1] is a planetarium on Bijoy Sarani Avenue of Tejgaon area in Dhaka, Bangladesh. [2][3][4]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Novo_Theatre,_Dhaka

[Bangabandhu Novo Theater: Architect Ali Imam's Modernist Masterpiece]
Formerly known as Vasani Novo Theatre, the Bangabandhu Novo Theater is a stunning architectural gem designed by Ali Imam. This modernist structure features a glass facade and striking red brick steps leading to its entrance. Explore this iconic landmark in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
URL: https://www.pinterest.com/pin/bangabandhu-novo-theater-architect-ali-imams-modernist-masterpiece--833728949749195734/

[Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre - City Traveler]
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre is located at Bijoy Sharani Avenue of the Tejgaon area in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Previously it was known as the 'Bhashani Novo Theatre'. Now it is known as 'Bangabandhu Novo Theatre'. Architect Ali Imam designed it. The ministry of science and information and communication technology of Bangladesh Government exposed this planetarium to ...
URL: https://www.citytravelerbd.com/novo-theatre/

[Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre]
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre is a planetarium on Bijoy Sharani Avenue of Tejgaon area in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It is an attractive infrastructure with most modern architectureal view. The theater opened to public on 25th September 2004. It was previously named Bhashani Novo Theatre. The space center was commissioned by the Ministry of Science and Communication Technology of the ...
URL: https://dailyasianage.com/news/29883/bangabandhu-sheikh-mujibur-rahman-novo-theatre

[Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre | Kolorob]
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre previously it was known as the 'Vasani Novo Theatre .' now it is known as 'Bangabandhu Novo Theater.' Architect Ali Imam designed it.The Ministry of Science and Information and communication technology of Bangladesh govt. Exposed this planetarium on 25th September 2004 for general people.
URL: https://kolorob.com.bd/bangabandhu-bhashani-novo-theater/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Novo Theatre, Dhaka - Wikipedia] ---
Novo Theatre, Dhaka (formerly Bhasani Novo Theatre and Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre) is a planetarium on Bijoy Sarani Avenue of Tejgaon area in Dhaka, Bangladesh.


--- [Bangabandhu Novo Theater: Architect Ali Imam's Modernist Masterpiece] ---
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select. Touch device users, explore by touch or with swipe gestures. Undilwer Bangladesh Ltd Background Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre previously it was known as the 'Vasani Novo Theatre .' now it is known as 'Bangabandhu Novo Theater.' Architect Ali Imam designed it.


--- [Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre - City Traveler] ---
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre is located at Bijoy Sharani Avenue of the Tejgaon area in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Previously it was known as the ‘Bhashani Novo Theatre’. Now it is known as ‘Bangabandhu Novo Theatre’. Architect Ali Imam designed it. The ministry of science and information and communication technology of Bangladesh Government exposed this planetarium to Bhashani Novo Theatre. Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre has been established as a non-formal science educational institute to eradicate superstitions and blind faith from the society and to inculcate positive scientific temper in the mind of people especially among the students. This theatre has been established by the Ministry of science and technology. History of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre: The Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Novo Theatre opened to the public on 25 September 2004. It was previously named Bhashani Novo Theatre. It was made by Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre bill 2010. The space center was commissioned by the ministry of science and communication technology of the government of Bangladesh. Build on 5.46 acres of land. Its spaces range in size from its 21-meter dome seating 275 people to three-meter inflatable and portable domes where people sit on the floor. A large number of advanced technological instruments have been procured from Japan, America Korea, France, Italy, and India for the planetarium not only the planetarium show a very exciting ride simulator, 5D movie theatre, 5D interactive edutainment simulator model of planets of the solar system. Scientific and digital exhibits and some portrait of world-renowned scientists and solars are also available at the site of Novo theatre. Novo Theatre Opening Hour: The Bangabandhu Novo Theatre is open to visitors from Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday to 11:00 AM to 7:00 PM but Friday it starts from 10:00 AM to 7:00 PM. Apart from Wednesday. Usually, the tickets are sold before two hours of each show every day. Novo Theater Close Day: Wednesday is the weekly holiday. Novo Theatre Show Details: - Thu. 10:00 AM – 6:30 PM. - Fri. 9:30 AM – 6:30 PM. - Sat – Tue. 10:00 AM – 6:30 PM. Contact Number: - Telephone: +88 02 9138878 - Fax: +88 02 9139888 - Email: bsmrnovotheatre@yahoo.com Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre Address: - Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre - Bijoy Shoroni, Tejgaon - Dhaka-1215, Bangladesh Location or How to Visit: There are many local and direct buses from various places inside and outside Dhaka. You can visit Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre very easily through rickshaw and public transport with a minimum cost of 30 BDT from Motijheel in Dhaka. Most Attractive Things: It would be an absolutely thrilling experience no doubt, the development of modern science and technology has finally enabled us to experience just that in our own country. Recently the ‘Space Theatre’ at the turning point of Bijoy Shorani, Dhaka has undergone its completion. The Dhaka Bhashani Novo Theatre has aroused a great deal of curiosity amongst the general public. Some have imagined it to be a theatre promoting the cultural arts while it is, in fact, a theatre building in order to promote astronomy. The planetarium displays the solar systems through a special projector and enables us to gain a wider knowledge of outer space and our galactic well as learn more about stars, their names, movements, etc. with the help of scientifically powerful projector inside the planetarium, the astronomical shows are displayed on a large curved domed screen on the ceiling. These curved ceiling represents the sky and shows moving images of plants and stars through a projection on to a large screen dome at an angle of 120 degrees. At the time of projection, the planetary system is also for a better understanding of the spectators interpreted in both Bengali and English.


--- [Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre] ---
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre is a planetarium on Bijoy Sharani Avenue of Tejgaon area in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It is an attractive infrastructure with most modern architectureal view. The theater opened to public on 25th September 2004. It was previously named Bhashani Novo Theatre. The space center was commissioned by the Ministry of Science and Communication Technology of the Government of Bangladesh. It is one of the favourite visiting spots in Dhaka. Everybody can come here to spend leisure time and to gain knowledge. Famous architect Ali Imam designed . The Planetarium dome simulates Earth and its cool blue sky. This dome-shaped theater was built with the latest equipment, enabling visitors to soar into space as well as experience the thrills of an interplanetary journey in a three-dimensional environment. The curved ceiling represents the sky and shows moving images of planets and stars through projection onto a large-screen dome at an angle of 120 degrees. This planetarium features three kinds of exhibits. They Journey to Infinity presents a celestial show of stars, planets and other heavenly bodies in virtual reality. The ai amader Bangladesh features Bangabandhu Sheik Mujibur Rahman`s 7 March lecture, while The Grand Canyon describes North America`s settlement clan, Garikhad, which existed in The Grand Canyon four thousand years ago. Visitors need not look up in the dome to watch the show. Instead, they feel they are watching space live, with everything around them, presented by 150 projectors. The Planetarium added a new capsule simulator and smart-step floor. Latest News


--- [Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre | Kolorob] ---
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Novo Theatre previously it was known as the ‘Vasani Novo Theatre .’ now it is known as ‘Bangabandhu Novo Theater.’ Architect Ali Imam designed it.The Ministry of Science and Information and communication technology of Bangladesh govt. Exposed this planetarium on 25th September 2004 for general people. Table of Contents Vashani Novo theater This planetarium is built on 5.46 acres of land. It is located near on Bijoy Shoroni at Tejgaon, Dhaka. The dome of this astronomers is about 21m of height and 3m of wide. About 275 people can seat here. To eliminate prejudice and superstition from society and for establishing positive scientific ideas in front of people especially students, it is developed as an informal science center. Ministry of Science and It has been set up it on nearly 22096 square meters of land. This astronomy center has been prepared on Bangladesh government’s own fund at a cost of approximately 1231.27 million. Sophisticated equipment is purchased from Japan, USA, Korea, Italy. This astronomy center has been prepared on Bangladesh government’s own fund at a cost of approximately 1231.27 million. Sophisticated equipment is purchased from Japan, USA, Korea, Italy, France, and India. There have exciting simulator ride, 5D film theater, 5D interactive edutainment simulator, the planets and the solar system replica, scientific digital exhibition, and renowned scientists portrait. There also have the modern 150- seat auditorium, 50-seat conference room, hydraulic lift, ramp, and underground parking system nearly 100 vehicle capacity. The dome earth and blue sky are enhanced in the planetarium. Visitors enjoy the feeling of losing in the environment of three-dimensional space as well as to the planet. The theater built with the most modern equipment. On the roof, the show curved swirling stars in the sky, and the planets are shown in 120-degree angle Larger screen reflects on these planets. There are three types of the exhibition are placed. A documentary film called ‘Infinite Journey ‘ which represents stars, planets and other objects in the real sense of space. ‘This is my Bangladesh.’ another documentary film represents the 7th March speech of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Visitors don’t need to keep looking at the dome during the show time because there have 150 projectors where the shows go on. Recently one new capsule simulator and smart step floor have been added here. Displayed objects of Novo Theatre Two different types of documentary film exhibited here. One is ‘Infinite Journey ‘ and the other one is ‘Ai Amar Bangladesh ‘. First one is on the planet, stars, and the sun. Second one reflex the natural beauty, tradition, and the village life of Bangladesh. First one is on the planet, stars and the sun. Second one reflex the natural beauty, tradition, and the community life of Bangladesh. How to go theater You can go there by C.N.G or auto rickshaw from anywhere of Dhaka or you can go Farmgate by bus from there it will just take 7/8 minute on foot. Restrictions: Carrying any foods, water, Restrictions Taking any foods, water, the camera is strictly prohibited. Clicking photograph and entering the theater during show time is restricted. Novo Theater ticket price 2026 There is four ticket counter in the theater. Two is at the northern side of the entrance of the theater. And two is at the southern side. Entry fee is only 50 BDT per head. Entry for children under the age of two years is fully free of cost. There is an existing ride called ‘simulator ride’ which is worth 5tk per head for five minute riding on it. Usually, before 1hr form, the beginning of the show ticket selling starts. Usually, before the beginning of the show ticket selling starts. Novo Theater Show Time 2026 Saturday -Thursday: 10.30 am, 12.00 pm, 03.30 pm, 05.00 pm, and 06.30 pm Friday: 10.00 am, 03.00 pm, 05.00 pm, 07.00 pm Special time of Ramadan Saturday -Thursday: 10.00 am, 12.00 pm, 02.00 pm Friday: 09.00 am, 11.00 am, 2.30 pm. It remains closed on Wednesday and on all Government holiday. Wednesday is the Novo theater holiday. Novo Theater Dhaka show time Saturday -Thursday: 10.00 am, 12.00 pm, 03.30 pm, 05.00 pm Friday : 10.30 am, 12.00 pm, 02.00 pm, 03.30 pm, 05.00 pm, 06.30 pm. Parking system The cost of parking vehicle are listed below: Bus: 30 to Car: 10 tk Motorbike: 5 tk Toilet facilities and others: At the western side of the ground floor of the theater there has 8 toilets for male and 8 toilets for female. There have sufficient security system, instruments, and fire alarming objects.
