=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Premier League 21/22: Remembering every Player of the Month this season]
Jun 24, 2022 · Following the conclusion of the Premier League season we’ve decided to look back and reflect on another campaign of top-flight action. Here is every Premier League Player of the Month from the 2021/22 season.
URL: https://thefootballfaithful.com/premier-league-21-22-remembering-every-player-of-the-month-this-season/

[Premier League Player of the Month - Wikipedia]
The Premier League Player of the Month is an association football award that recognises the best adjudged Premier League player each month of the season. The winner is chosen by a combination of an online public vote, which contributes to 10% of the final tally, a panel of experts, and the captain of each Premier League club. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Premier_League_Player_of_the_Month

[David De Gea named Players Player of the Year 03 June 2022 ...]
Jun 3, 2022 · The Manchester United squad has crowned David De Gea as the Players’ Player of the Year for 2021/22, following a season in which the Spaniard performed consistently and produced many sublime saves.
URL: https://www.manutd.com/en/news/detail/david-de-gea-named-man-utd-players-player-of-the-year-for-2021-22-03-june-2022

[La Liga Player of the Month]
Kylian Mbappé, Lamine Yamal, Diego Godín and Lionel Messi are the only players to win the Player of the Month award for 2 consecutive months · Antoine Griezmann ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Liga_Player_of_the_Month

[Premier League Awards - Player, Manager & Goal of the Month & Season]
Find out which players and managers have won monthly and season awards, on the official website of the Premier League.
URL: https://www.premierleague.com/en/awards


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Premier League 21/22: Remembering every Player of the Month this season] ---
Following the conclusion of the Premier League season we’ve decided to look back and reflect on another campaign of top-flight action. Here is every Premier League Player of the Month from the 2021/22 season. August – Michail Antonio (West Ham) Michail Antonio enjoyed an electric start to the Premier League season to earn August’s accolade, scoring four times and providing three assists in just three appearances for West Ham. Antonio’s haul included a brace in a 4-1 thrashing of Leicester at the London Stadium, a double which saw the forward overtake Paulo Di Canio as the Hammers’ all-time leading scorer in the Premier League era. Michail Antonio is the Premier League Player of the Month for August ???? ⚽️4️⃣ ????3️⃣What a start to the season for the West Ham striker! ???? pic.twitter.com/r9GNgJfIe7 — Football on TNT Sports (@footballontnt) September 10, 2021 He also registered his 50th goal in the Premier League as his evolution from versatile option to out-and-out centre-forward completed in the opening months of the campaign. Antonio ended the season with 10 league goals, becoming the first West Ham player to score 10 goals in three consecutive top-flight campaigns since Tony Cottee did so in five successive seasons between 1983/84 and 1987/88. September – Cristiano Ronaldo (Manchester United) Cristiano Ronaldo’s immediate impact since returning to Manchester United ended with September’s Player of the Month award, with the five-time Ballon d’Or winner scoring three goals in as many games. Ronaldo’s second debut for the Red Devils saw him score twice against Newcastle at a raucous Old Trafford, as the home crowed celebrated the return of a former favourite to the Premier League. 3 games ???? 3 goals ⚽️Cristiano Ronaldo is voted September's Premier League Player of the Month ???? pic.twitter.com/cZM3dEappN — GOAL (@goal) October 8, 2021 Ronaldo’s award was the fourth of his Premier League career, with the 13 years separating September’s recognition and his previous award the longest gap between Player of the Month accolades. October – Mohamed Salah (Liverpool) Mohamed Salah’s brilliant start to the season saw him win October’s gong, having scored five goals and provided four assists during a sensational month of performances. Salah’s month included scoring stunning solo efforts in clashes with Manchester City and Watford, before netting a hat-trick as Liverpool thrashed Manchester United 5-0 at Old Trafford. Hat-trick ✅ Assist ✅ Player of the Match ✅@MoSalah’s performance on Sunday simply had it all ???? pic.twitter.com/0A4pEwZ8m9 — Liverpool FC (@LFC) October 26, 2021 Salah’s treble against the Red Devils extended his fine early season form with the Egyptian having scored for a tenth consecutive game across all competitions. November – Trent Alexander-Arnold (Liverpool) Trent Alexander-Arnold made it consecutive Player of the Month accolades for Liverpool, after being named as November’s winner. The right-back was influential form across the course of the month, scoring one goal, providing four assists and keeping two clean sheets in three appearances. Trent Alexander-Arnold is the first defender to win multiple Premier League Player of the Month awards. ◉ December 2019 ◉ November 2021Changing the game. #PLAwards pic.twitter.com/I6wIob8GMx — Squawka (@Squawka) December 10, 2021 Alexander-Arnold’s goal was a fine free-kick in defeat at West Ham, before he starred as the creative force behind convincing wins over Arsenal and Southampton. December – Raheem Sterling (Manchester City) Raheem Sterling enjoyed somewhat of a slow start to the season, before exploding during the festive period to win December’s Player of the Month gong. Sterling scored five goals in five appearances for Manchester City throughout December, in addition to providing an assist in a period of form that came in the midst of a 12-game winning for Pep Guardiola’s side. Manchester City in the Premier League in December: WWWWWWW Player of the Month: Raheem Sterling Manager of the Month: Pep Guardiola ???? pic.twitter.com/HWimK6bzOG — B/R Football (@brfootball) January 14, 2022 Their performances over the winter built a lead at the top of the Premier League that City would not relinquish as Guardiola’s side were crowned champions for a fourth time in five seasons. January – David de Gea (Manchester United) David de Gea became the first goalkeeper in almost six years to win the Premier League’s Player of the Month award in January, with the Spanish shot-stopper having been a rare positive in a disastrous campaign for Manchester United. De Gea made 22 saves across just four fixtures in January, earning his first-ever Player of the Month accolade after a decade of stellar service for the Red Devils. Fraser Forster had been the previous goalkeeping winner of the award, earning recognition for Southampton in February 2016. February – Joel Matip (Liverpool) Joel Matip took February’s prize after an influential role in a winning run for Liverpool that closed the gap on league leaders Manchester City. The centre-back formed part of a Reds defence that conceded just one goal in four games, whilst he also contributed in the final third with an assist against Leicester and goal in the 6-0 thrashing of Leeds. Joel Matip ❤ The @PremierLeague Player of the Month for February ???? pic.twitter.com/HOaYOkahQp — Liverpool FC (@LFC) March 11, 2022 Matip became the first ever Cameroonian to claim the Premier League’s Player of the Month. March – Harry Kane Harry Kane earned his seventh Premier League Player of the Month award in March, equalling the all-time record held by Sergio Aguero. Kane’s award came after four goals and two assists in four fixtures, a league-leading contribution which helped Spurs to three wins and boosted their hopes of Champions League football. ???? Harry Kane has now won seven @PremierLeague Player of the Month awards. No player has ever won more. ???? pic.twitter.com/LelRzOqnIJ — Tottenham Hotspur (@SpursOfficial) April 1, 2022 The England captain’s goal in the win at Brighton also saw him eclipse Wayne Rooney as the highest-scoring Premier League player in away fixtures. April – Cristiano Ronaldo Cristiano Ronaldo moved one award behind the joint-record of Kane and Aguero after claiming his sixth career Player of the Month accolade in April. The 37-year-old scored five goals in the month, including reaching 100 goals in the division with a strike in Manchester United’s 3-1 defeat at Arsenal. Five goals in April, including a hat trick vs. Norwich. Cristiano Ronaldo is the Premier League Player of the Month for the second time this season ???? (via @ManUtd)pic.twitter.com/XgaAEBw4CZ — B/R Football (@brfootball) May 12, 2022 Ronaldo also scored a hat-trick as the Red Devils beat Norwich 3-2 at Old Trafford, his second treble of the 2021/22 season. ** Note: There is no Premier League Player of the Month award for May ** Read – Ranking the 10 best signings of the Premier League season Read Also – Premier League end-of-season awards 2021/22


--- [Premier League Player of the Month - Wikipedia] ---
The Premier League Player of the Month is an association football award that recognises the best adjudged Premier League player each month of the season. The winner is chosen by a combination of an online public vote, which contributes to 10% of the final tally, a panel of experts, and the captain of each Premier League club. It has been called the Carling Premiership Player of the Month (1994–2001), the Barclaycard Premiership Player of the Month (2001–2004) and the Barclays Player of the Month (2004–2016); it is currently known as the EA Sports Player of the Month.
The Premier League was formed in 1992, when the members of the First Division resigned from the Football League. These clubs set up a new commercially independent league that negotiated its own broadcast and sponsorship agreements. The Premier League introduced new Manager of the Month and Manager of the Season awards for the 1993–94 season, supplementing the existing Football Writers' Association and Professional Footballers' Association Player of the Year awards. For the 1994–95 season, the Premier League introduced the Player of the Month award, which is presented alongside the Manager of the Month award. The first Player of the Month was awarded to Tottenham Hotspur player Jürgen Klinsmann for his performances in August 1994.
Sergio Agüero, Harry Kane, and Mohamed Salah have been Player of the Month the most with seven awards each. Nine players have won the award in consecutive months: Robbie Fowler, Dennis Bergkamp, Cristiano Ronaldo, Harry Kane, Jamie Vardy, Mohamed Salah, Bruno Fernandes, İlkay Gündoğan, and Marcus Rashford. Only Mohamed Salah and Marcus Rashford have won the award three times in a single season. Fernandes is the first player to win four awards in one calendar year. Nineteen individuals have won two awards in a season: Robbie Fowler, Dennis Bergkamp, Ruud van Nistelrooy, Thierry Henry, Wayne Rooney, Ryan Giggs, Cristiano Ronaldo, Ashley Young, Peter Odemwingie, Robin van Persie, Daniel Sturridge, Luis Suárez, Harry Kane, Jamie Vardy, Sergio Agüero, Son Heung-min, Bruno Fernandes, Erling Haaland, and Mohamed Salah. Robbie Keane has won the award while playing for three clubs, while twelve players have won the award playing for two clubs: Alan Shearer, Dion Dublin, David Ginola, Dwight Yorke, Tim Flowers, Teddy Sheringham, Danny Murphy, Andrew Johnson, Nicolas Anelka, Dimitar Berbatov, Scott Parker and Robin van Persie.
The award has been shared on six occasions: by Blackburn Rovers's Alan Shearer and Chris Sutton in November 1994, Liverpool's Robbie Fowler and Stan Collymore in January 1996, Southampton's Kevin Davies and Manchester United's Andy Cole in November 1997, Arsenal's Dennis Bergkamp and Edu in February 2004, Tottenham Hotspur's Dimitar Berbatov and Robbie Keane in April 2007 and Liverpool's Steven Gerrard and Luis Suárez in April 2014. More than four in ten of the Player of the Month awards have gone to English players, and about a fifth of foreign winners have been French or Dutch. Michail Antonio became the first player to win the award with different nationalities, winning in July 2020 as an Englishman and in August 2021 as a Jamaican. Manchester United have had more Player of the Month awards than any other club.
As of January 2026, the latest winner is Brentford forward Igor Thiago.


--- [David De Gea named Players Player of the Year 03 June 2022 ...] ---
Players' Player of the Year announced The Manchester United squad has crowned David De Gea as the Players’ Player of the Year for 2021/22, following a season in which the Spaniard performed consistently and produced many sublime saves. In what has been a tough campaign for our first team, the 31-year-old played every single minute of Premier League action and was regularly on hand to save his side. De Gea accumulated a total of seven Man-of-the-Match awards during the campaign, with only Cristiano Ronaldo having claimed as many. The Spaniard also earned our Player-of-the-Month award for November, December and January. The Players' Player award is viewed as a significant mark of respect from your team-mates and David should be proud of his efforts throughout 2021/22. Why De Gea is our Players' Player of the Year Remind yourself why David De Gea is our 2021/22 Players' Player of the Year by watching our no.1's season highlights... Of De Gea’s performances this season, his displays at home to Villareal and away to West Ham stand out. United recorded a 2-1 win away to the Hammers, despite the hosts being awarded a penalty in injury time. Our Spanish goalkeeper stepped up to the challenge and repelled Mark Noble’s penalty to earn the Reds three points. In the 2-1 Champions League win over Villareal at Old Trafford, it was once again De Gea who stole the headlines, producing some sublime saves to keep the score at 1-1 in the second half. The 33-year-old’s display laid the foundations for Ronaldo’s last-gasp winner against the Spanish side. In 2017/18, the Spaniard became the first United player to be awarded our Players’ Player of the Year prize on three occasions, and he extends that record to four with this 2021/22 win. Cristiano Ronaldo and last year’s winner Luke Shaw are joined by former winger Antonio Valencia as the only other players to have claimed the award more than once since its inception in 2006. Players’ Player of the Year: 2005/06: Ryan Giggs 2006/07: Cristiano Ronaldo 2007/08: Cristiano Ronaldo 2008/09: Nemanja Vidic 2009/10: Wayne Rooney 2010/11: Nani 2011/12: Antonio Valencia 2012/13: Michael Carrick 2013/14: David De Gea 2014/15: David De Gea 2015/16: Chris Smalling 2016/17: Antonio Valencia 2017/18: David De Gea 2018/19: Luke Shaw 2019/20: Anthony Martial 2020/21: Luke Shaw 2021/22: David De Gea Congratulations on your fourth success, David, and keep up the good work. LAST CHANCE TO VOTE The poll to name our Sir Matt Busby Player of the Year will close on Saturday morning, before the winner is officially announced. Have you registered your vote yet? Make sure you do via the poll above. We confirmed on Thursday morning that De Gea, Fred and Ronaldo are the top three contenders following their positive seasons on an individual basis. Thank you to everybody who has voted so far and look out for the winner on Saturday.


--- [La Liga Player of the Month] ---
The Player of the Month is an association football award that recognises the best La Liga player each month of the season.


--- [Premier League Awards - Player, Manager & Goal of the Month & Season] ---
No content
