=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic ...]
Dec 16, 2021 · Article Open access Published: 16 December 2021 Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic diversity Lindell Bromham, Russell Dinnage, Hedvig Skirgård, Andrew Ritchie ...
URL: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41559-021-01604-y

[What is the future of the world’s linguistic diversity?]
Dec 16, 2021 · Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic diversity - Nature Ecology & Evolution Using a global analysis of 6,511 spoken languages with 51 predictor variables spanning aspects of population, documentation, legal recognition, education policy, socioeconomic indicators and environmental features, the authors identify predictors of current and future language ...
URL: https://communities.springernature.com/posts/what-is-the-future-of-the-world-s-linguistic-diversity

[1,500 endangered languages at high risk of being lost this century]
Dec 19, 2021 · 1,500 endangered languages at high risk of being lost this century New study identifies 51 stressors on endangered languages Date: December 19, 2021 Source: Australian National University Summary ...
URL: https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2021/12/211216145917.htm

[Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic ...]
Language diversity is under threat. While each language is subject to specific social, demographic and political pressures, there may also be common threatening processes. We use an analysis of 6,511 spoken languages with 51 predictor variables spanning aspects of population, documentation, legal recognition, education policy, socioeconomic indicators and environmental features to show that ...
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34916621/

[A Dataset on Linguistic Connectivity Across and Within Countries]
by T Gurevich · 2025 · Cited by 5 — It describes in detail more than seven thousand languages in 242 countries and territories. We make use of 6,675 languages for which data on ...
URL: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-025-04692-8


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic ...] ---
Abstract Language diversity is under threat. While each language is subject to specific social, demographic and political pressures, there may also be common threatening processes. We use an analysis of 6,511 spoken languages with 51 predictor variables spanning aspects of population, documentation, legal recognition, education policy, socioeconomic indicators and environmental features to show that, counter to common perception, contact with other languages per se is not a driver of language loss. However, greater road density, which may encourage population movement, is associated with increased endangerment. Higher average years of schooling is also associated with greater endangerment, evidence that formal education can contribute to loss of language diversity. Without intervention, language loss could triple within 40 years, with at least one language lost per month. To avoid the loss of over 1,500 languages by the end of the century, urgent investment is needed in language documentation, bilingual education programmes and other community-based programmes. Similar content being viewed by others Main As with global biodiversity, the world’s language diversity is under threat. Of the approximately 7,000 documented languages, nearly half are considered endangered1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8. In comparison, around 40% of amphibian species, 25% of mammals and 14% of birds are currently threatened with extinction9. The processes of endangerment are ongoing10, with rates of loss estimated as equivalent to a language lost every one to three months7,11,12, and the most pessimistic predictions suggesting that 90% of the world’s languages will be lost within a century13. However, unlike biodiversity loss14, predictions of language loss have not been based on statistically rigorous analysis. Here we provide a global analysis to model patterns of current and future language endangerment, and compare the predictive power of variables representing some of the potential drivers of language loss. Our analysis has three key features. First, we examined a broader set of influences than previous studies, encompassing demographic factors, linguistic resources, socioeconomic setting, language ecology, connectivity, land use, environment, climate and biodiversity (Table 1). Second, we addressed major statistical challenges of large-scale comparative analyses, by simultaneously accounting for phylogenetic non-independence, spatial autocorrelation and covariation among variables. Third, our models incorporated demographic and environmental variables that can be projected into the future, allowing us to make predictions of future patterns of language endangerment in time and space. While language change and shift are natural processes of human cultural evolution, the loss of global language diversity has been massively accelerated by colonization and globalization. Many factors contribute to language endangerment, some of which are specific to particular regions, language groups or languages. The historical context of each language, such as patterns of colonial expansion, and particular political climates, such as support for bilingual education, are expected to have substantial impacts on language endangerment patterns10. In addition to specific historical and local influences, there may also be widespread general factors that contribute to language endangerment, which can be used to identify languages that may come under increasing threat in the future. For a dataset containing 6,511 languages (over 90% of the world’s spoken languages), we analysed 51 predictor variables that target different aspects of language maintenance15, including language transmission (for example, whether a language is actively learned by children or used in education), language shift (for example, connectivity, urbanization, world languages) and language policy (for example, provision for minority language education, official language status). We also included variables that have been associated with language diversity, including features of climate and landscape. Clearly, any list of threatening processes will be incomplete, and the requirement for globally consistent data will fail to capture important influences on language vitality that operate at regional or local levels. Our aim is not to provide a comprehensive picture of language endangerment but a useful exploration of the influence of a selection of potential impacts. Broad-scale quantitative studies are therefore a complement to more focused qualitative studies on language endangerment and loss. Understanding global threats to language diversity requires that we develop a macroecology of language endangerment and loss16. A macroecological approach has many advantages: it allows evaluation of a large range of factors that influence language vitality; formal testing of general patterns above the signal of individual language trajectories; statistical comparison of the explanatory power of different models, accounting for covariation of cultural, socioeconomic and environmental factors; and a way of avoiding the confounding effects of spatial distribution and relationships between languages17. Although threats to linguistic diversity, shaped by social, cultural, political and economic influences, often differ from processes threatening biodiversity18, the analytical challenges associated with studying global patterns of endangerment are common to biologists and linguists17,19,20,21. Here we use global analysis to illuminate some of the complex interactions of extrinsic factors threatening language diversity, and use this understanding to predict the fate of the world’s languages over the next century. Results and discussion Current patterns of endangerment We use an endangerment scale based on EGIDS, which incorporates a range of factors including domains of use and intergenerational transmission22,23. We describe languages that are losing first-language (L1) speakers as ‘Threatened’, those with only adult speakers and no child learners as ‘Endangered’ or those with only elderly speakers as ‘critically endangered’, and languages with no L1 speakers as ‘Sleeping’ (the term preferred by many speakers of endangered languages1,24,25: Supplementary Table 1). Of the 6,511 languages in our database, 37% are considered threatened or above (which we will refer to generally as ‘endangered languages’); 13% of these are no longer spoken (sleeping). The areas of greatest absolute number of endangered languages are in New Guinea, Central America, Himalayas and Yunnan, and regions between Central and West Africa (Extended Data Figs. 1 and 2), but this pattern may largely reflect diversity17: where there are more languages, speaker populations and geographic ranges tend to be smaller, potentially resulting in more endangered languages. Areas with the highest proportion of their languages endangered include Australia, North China, Siberia, North Africa and Arabia, North America, and parts of South America (Fig. 1). Areas with the greatest language loss to date are in Australia, South America and USA (Extended Data Fig. 2). Predictors of language endangerment Our analysis seeks the best set of variables, from 51 candidate variables, to explain variation in endangerment level (the dependent variable), over and above covariation due to relationships between languages, spatial autocorrelation and contact between language distributions, and allowing for interactions between predictor variables and region. We reduced the number of variables by grouping variables according to their pairwise correlations, identified independent variables with significant predictive power on a proportion of the data (training dataset), then evaluated the fit of the model on the remaining data (test dataset). We then estimated model parameters on the full dataset (see Methods for details). Our best-fit model explains 34% of the variation in language endangerment (comparable to similar analyses on species endangerment26,27,28). These variables cannot provide a full picture of the processes threatening language diversity, as there will be many other important factors that cannot be included due to lack of appropriate and consistent data with global coverage, or because of the idiosyncratic nature of processes of language endangerment and the influence of historical factors that cannot be captured in a broad-scale model. For example, patterns of human migration and past episodes of population expansion and contraction will not be captured fully in contemporary language distribution data. Furthermore, language endangerment and loss is an ongoing process, and there may be historical factors that caused dramatic reduction in L1 speakers that will not be captured in current values of socioeconomic variables, such as massacres of Indigenous populations or ethnic groups, punishing people for speaking their language and separating children from parents. Patterns of language endangerment may at least partially reflect past influences, such that current predictors might not fully capture important processes that resulted in the current endangerment status (a phenomenon known in conservation biology as extinction filter effect29). Because of these unavoidable limitations, no study of this kind can aim to comprehensively describe factors affecting vitality of all of the world’s languages. But by identifying contemporary factors that are significant predictors of current patterns of endangerment at a global scale, we contribute to the understanding of the complex interaction of factors contributing to language endangerment. Five predictors of language endangerment are consistently identified at global and regional scales: L1 speakers, bordering language richness, road density, years of schooling and the number of endangered languages in the immediate neighbourhood. Each of these predictors highlights a different process in language endangerment; taken together, they paint a picture of the way interactions between languages shape language vitality. Number of first-language (L1) speakers is the greatest predictor of endangerment. It is important to emphasize that not all small languages are endangered, and that language loss does not necessarily result from a reduction in number of people in a particular culture or population, but often occurs when people shift from using their heritage language to a different language1,30. Therefore the multilingual setting in which each language is embedded (referred to as the language ecology) plays a key role in endangerment, by influencing whether speakers shift to another language or adopt additional languages in their multilingual repertoires31. Our results suggest that direct contact with neighbouring languages, as reflected in the number languages with overlapping or touching distributions, is not in itself a threatening process. In fact, languages whose distributions are directly in contact with a greater number of other autochthonous languages have lower average endangerment levels (Fig. 1). This may reflect a common observation that communities in regular contact with speakers of other Indigenous languages may be multilingual without necessarily giving up their L1 language31. If ongoing language contact was a threat to language vitality, then we might expect that more isolated languages, such as those on islands, would be less endangered, but this is not the case (Supplementary Fig. 7). Similarly, we find no evidence that barriers to human movement that might be expected to reduce contact between nearby speaker populations, such as steep or rough terrain, are associated with reduced endangerment. We conclude that being in regular contact with speakers of another language does not in itself usually endanger Indigenous language vitality. Instead there are other more complex social, economic and political dynamics influencing language endangerment that may co-occur with language contact but are not synonymous with it. A language is more likely to be endangered if a higher proportion of languages in the region are also endangered, suggesting that, in addition to language-specific threats, there are also widespread factors that influence language vitality across a region. One such factor is the density of roads in the neighbourhood surrounding each language (Fig. 1). One interpretation of the association between road density and language endangerment is that roads increase human movement and thus bring people into contact with speakers of other languages, and this may result in language shift. However, our results suggest that the association between language endangerment and roads is unlikely to simply reflect language contact. If language contact always generated language shift and loss, then we would expect languages with a high degree of contact with other languages to be more endangered. In fact, we find the opposite: languages whose distribution overlaps or meets many other languages are less endangered (Fig. 1 and Supplementary Data 3). Furthermore, if contact between speakers of different languages was a driver of language loss, then we would expect landscapes that inhibit movement to reduce language contact and show lower levels of endangerment, but none of the other connectivity variables, such as altitudinal range, landscape roughness or density of waterways, show consistent association with language endangerment. The association with roads is neither simply a result of socioeconomic shift, as other indicators of development (for example, GDP, life expectancy) are not associated with language endangerment, nor is it a reflection of increasing urbanization, land use change or increase in built environment (Supplementary Fig. 7). Instead, road density may reflect connectivity between previously remote communities and larger towns, with increase in the influence of commerce and centralized government. Lack of roads has been cited as a protective factor in maintaining Indigenous language vitality, as it may limit the spread of ‘lingua francas’, such as Tok Pisin in Papua New Guinea32. The association between road density and language endangerment may reflect movement of people in two directions, as people move from their traditional homelands into larger population centres, and outsiders move into previously isolated communities, both of which have been implicated as threats to Indigenous language vitality33. For example, access to new employment opportunities (such as a shift from rural work to factory or construction work) may result in shift away from heritage languages to dominant languages of commerce34,35,36. Roads can aid the spread of ‘lingua francas’ or languages of central governance37. There is consistent global support for higher average levels of schooling being associated with greater language endangerment (Fig. 1). The association between schooling and language endangerment cannot be interpreted as a side effect of growing socioeconomic development, because years of schooling is a much stronger predictor of endangerment patterns than other socioeconomic indicators. Instead, it is consistent with a growing number of studies showing a negative impact of formal schooling on minority language vitality, particularly where bilingual education is not supported or, in some cases, is actively discouraged38,39,40. Yet having a minority education policy is not globally associated with reduced threats to language diversity, possibly due to variation in the extent and manner of provision of bilingual education for speakers of minority languages. For example, the Bilingual Education Act of the United States (1968) was primarily concerned with improving access to mainstream education for students from non-English speaking backgrounds by using heritage language as a bridge to English acquisition, rather than being designed to allow students to maintain their first language41. The spatial scale of the variables reflecting education policy and outcomes cannot capture variation within countries. Reliable statistics on average years of schooling are, for most parts of the world, only available as national averages, even though years of schooling may vary within a country, particularly between socioeconomic groups, or when comparing rural and urban populations. However, we note that the same effects have been reported in local-scale studies: for example, in a remote northern Australian Indigenous community, increased number of years schooling is associated with reduced use of Indigenous language elements across all generations, from elders to children42. Collection of regional data on variation in number of years of schooling would allow the generality of this relationship to be tested at a range of spatial scales. Similarly, our data on education policy is necessarily coarse grained, which may mask some patterns at local scales: national legal provision may not reflect use of minority languages in schools at a local or regional level. For example, in China, the Regional Ethnic Autonomy Law (1984) promotes learning both regional languages and Mandarin Chinese, but the policy is not translated into educational practice evenly across all regions due to lack of resources in some languages, or local emphasis in some places on students from minorities learning the centralized language of governance and commerce39. The same bilingual education policy may invigorate minority languages in some areas, but result in greater emphasis on education in the dominant national language in other places43. More fine-grained analysis at regional level is needed to examine the influence of minority languages in classrooms on language diversity and vitality. Our results not only identify global threats to language vitality, but also reveal differences in threatening processes in different regions. For example, in Africa, language endangerment is associated with greater areas of pasture or croplands, potentially reflecting language shift associated with subsistence change (for example, as hunter–gatherer societies adopt the languages of neighbouring pastoral or agricultural groups44). Climate has the strongest association with language endangerment in Europe, with endangerment levels increasing with temperature seasonality, reflecting patterns of language erosion in Arctic regions. These regional patterns are ideal foci for future studies of language endangerment: while the current study is constrained to predictors that are globally relevant and consistently measured for all regions of the world, a targeted study could focus on variables considered important at regional scales, such as land use and subsistence in Africa, population density change in Oceania, or climate in Europe and Central and Eastern Asia (Supplementary Fig. 7). Predicting future language loss If a language is no longer being learned by children, we can use demographic information to predict when, in the absence of interventions to increase language transmission, there will be no more living L1 speakers. We can combine the current L1 speaker population size with endangerment score (which tells us the relative generational distribution of L1 speakers and whether the number of L1 speakers is declining; Supplementary Table 1), and use demographic information on age structure of the population (Supplementary Table 8) to predict how many L1 speakers will be alive in the future (see Supplementary Methods 5 for details). Our analysis is conservative in that it only considers change in L1 speakers in languages identified as having reduced transmission to younger generations (see Supplementary Table 1): we did not model change in speaker number for languages currently considered to be stably transmitted, even though they may become endangered in the future. Our model predicts that language loss will at least triple in the next 40 years (Fig. 2). Without intervention to increase language transmission to younger generations, we predict that by the end of the century there will be a nearly five-fold increase in Sleeping languages, with at least 1,500 languages ceasing to be spoken (Fig. 3). Some parts of the world stand out as ‘hotspots’ of future language loss, with the greatest absolute loss of languages predicted to occur in the west coast of North America, Central America, the Amazon rainforest, West Africa, north coast of New Guinea and northern Australia (Extended Data Fig. 4). After 80 years, the model predicts additional areas of language loss in Borneo, southwest China and areas around the Caspian Sea. The greatest proportional loss of languages is predicted to occur in the Arctic, interior plains of Northern America, temperate areas of southern Chile and the Sahara (Extended Data Fig. 5). In addition to demographic shift, our model also identifies predictors of language endangerment that are likely to change over time. For some of the variables associated with language endangerment, such as average years of schooling, we lack an adequate predictive model that is global in extent but would allow for regional variation. However, there are some variables identified as significant predictors of language endangerment at regional levels, such as land use and climate, for which we can predict future values on the basis of current trends (see Supplementary Information 5.2). For example, we can use climate change models to predict future values of climate variables at all points of the globe, and we can use information on rates of change in land use in each grid cell to project possible future values for land use variables in that grid cell. Clearly, such predictions should be regarded as possible values only, and all such future projections are subject to caveats: for example, we chose a mid-range climate model so the future values could be higher or lower depending on the effectiveness of global climate change mitigation strategies, and the land-use projections are based on the average rate of change in the last few decades, although local factors may cause those rates of change to either increase or decrease in the future. But it is a useful exercise to add climate and land use to the predictive model to illustrate the potential for forward prediction of variables impacting endangerment status. The results of the predictions based on generational shift and demographic transition are shown in Figs. 2 and 3. Predictions that are additionally adjusted for change in climate and land-use variables show qualitatively the same results (Extended Data Figs. 2–5). Safeguarding language diversity The crisis of language endangerment has prompted worldwide efforts to recognize, document and support language diversity45, reflected in the UNESCO International Decade of Indigenous Languages, beginning in 2022. Every language represents a unique expression of human culture, and each is subject to idiosyncratic influences of their specific history and local sociopolitical environment. By identifying general factors that impact language vitality, or areas at greatest risk of language loss, we may be better placed to direct resources for maintenance of language diversity. In biology, ‘extinction debt’ describes the inevitable loss of species that are currently persisting with inviable populations or insufficient habitat46,47. For languages, ‘extinction debt’ arises from reduced intergenerational transmission. Languages currently spoken by adults but not learned as a first language by children will, without active intervention and revitalization, have no more L1 speakers once the current L1 speakers die. Using information on intergenerational transmission for each language combined with demographic information, our model predicts that the greatest increase in endangered languages will coincide with areas of greatest language diversity, in particular New Guinea and Central America (Fig. 2a). However, some regions are predicted to lose a greater proportion of their current language diversity, such as the Great Lakes region of North America, the northern Sahara and eastern Siberia (Fig. 2). We emphasize that these predictions are not death knells, but possible outcomes in the absence of investment in language vitality. For example, while our model predicts Alutiiq (Pacific Gulf Yupik {ems}) in Alaska to increase in endangerment level, the community has instituted a language revitalization programme that may counter the predicted trend. Identifying external factors associated with language endangerment can focus attention on areas where language vitality might become threatened. For example, some areas with the greatest predicted increase in road density, such as Nigeria, Papua New Guinea and Brazil48, are predicted by our model to have the highest potential loss of languages (Extended Data Fig. 4). Since increasing road density also has negative impacts on biodiversity, focusing mitigation efforts on areas of increasing road density may be beneficial for both language vitality and biodiversity49,50. In addition to identifying correlates of language endangerment that are likely to change in the future, such as land use, we also identify factors that are open to intervention to reduce loss of language diversity. Currently, more years of formal schooling are associated with greater rates of language endangerment (Fig. 1). Research suggests that bilingual education, where students learn part or all of the curriculum in their first language, typically results in greater overall academic achievement without sacrificing proficiency in the dominant national language51, but emphasis on high-stakes testing for competency in the national language can contribute to erosion of heritage language proficiency42. Having provision for bilingual education enshrined in legislation, or official recognition of minority languages in government or in education, is not sufficient to reduce language endangerment (Supplementary Fig. 7). Implementation requires genuine commitment to bilingual education, and support from community members who can bring heritage language to the classroom. The benefits of providing support to enhance Indigenous language vitality, in terms of wellbeing52,53 and socioeconomic outcomes54, are likely to far outweigh the costs. Implementation of support for Indigenous language vitality at all levels of governance and within speaker communities is urgent, given the predicted loss of L1 speakers who can aid language vitality and transmission (Fig. 3). We emphasize that our analysis is focused on L1 speakers who learned the language as children, reflecting continuity of language transmission over generations. A language classified as ‘Sleeping’ (no L1 speakers) may be spoken as an acquired (L2) language in a multilingual context, as a reflection of ethnic identity or through revitalization (which may ultimately generate new L1 speakers). Language revitalization benefits from documentation, such as texts, dictionaries and grammars. Our future predictions give cause for concern that within 80 years there could be 1,500 or more languages that will no longer be spoken, yet a third of these currently have little or no documentation (Fig. 3). The majority of these languages currently have living L1 speakers, so there is still time to increase documentation based on the expert knowledge of fluent first-language speakers55, and to support communities to re-invigorate intergenerational language transmission56. The loss of language diversity results from a complex network of factors, particularly those associated with colonization, globalization, and social and economic change. While identifying correlates of endangerment does not provide a full picture of the loss or erosion of any particular language, it does contribute to a general ‘theory of language loss’38,57. A key difference between species and language endangerment patterns is that while many correlates of species extinction risk are intrinsic features of species biology (such as low reproductive rate or specialist diet58), we have considered only ‘external’ factors, which frame the context in which languages persist. But external factors, unlike species traits, are amenable to manipulation. Some identified predictors of language endangerment may act as ‘red flags’, highlighting areas that would benefit from interventions to support language vitality (such as regions where road networks are expanding rapidly) or prompt finer-grained analysis of potential impacts (such as educational policy). Our study highlights the critical level of under-documentation of language diversity (Fig. 3), showing that without intervention, we might lose a substantial proportion of language diversity without having ever adequately documented how those languages represent unique expressions of human cultural diversity59. Investing in speaker communities to provide them with the support they need to encourage language diversity and vitality will bring measurable benefits in terms of social justice, community wellbeing and cultural engagement53,54,55,60. Methods Language data We used data on L1 speakers, geographic distribution, endangerment level and relationships for 6,511 languages classified as ‘spoken L1 languages’17,61,62 (see Supplementary Methods for details of data and variables). We give the standard nomenclature according to the ISO 639-3 three-letter language identifiers in Supplementary Data 1, and throughout this document we give the ISO code in curly brackets at the first mention of a language. Nine ‘world languages’ were included only as factors potentially influencing language vitality (see Supplementary Table 2) but were otherwise excluded from all language-level analyses. There are several schemes for evaluating and categorizing the risk of language loss63,64, most of which target indicators of language vitality, such as intergenerational transmission, official recognition, domains of use, and level of documentation and resources23,65 (Supplementary Table 1). We based our analysis on EGIDS because it provides the most comprehensive coverage for our data (Supplementary Methods 2.1.2 and Fig. 1). Signed languages were not included in this analysis due to insufficient information on number of L1 signers, distributions and endangerment status for the majority of the world’s signed languages (Supplementary Information section 2.1.6). Many previous analyses of global patterns of language endangerment relied on speaker population size and geographic distribution as proxies of endangerment status4,20,66. While low speaker number is the ultimate outcome of endangerment, current population size may not always provide a reliable indicator of language vitality or risk of loss67,68. Small localized languages may be stable and vigorous, for example some Papuan languages are confined to one or a few villages with only hundreds of speakers, yet are not considered endangered (for example, Neko {ISO 639-3: nej}, Mato {met}), and large widespread languages are not secure if they are not being reliably transmitted to younger generations (for example, Domari {rmt}, an endangered Indo-European language with over a quarter of a million speakers). Using population and range size to represent endangerment also conflates endangerment and diversity: range and population size correlate with number of languages per unit area17, so an area with more languages may, all things being equal, also contain a larger number of endangered languages4,20. Our analysis emphasizes global trends and general patterns over specific language trajectories or local histories. Use of global databases provides an overview of language diversity and vitality, but it is not possible to verify current speaker numbers, endangerment and distributions without expert knowledge of each individual language. Some regions or language families may be less well represented in global databases (for example, Australian languages have patchy representation and would benefit from expert revision on speaker numbers and endangerment levels). Furthermore, there is often no clear line between a dialect and a language, and this can result in variation in assigning L1 speakers to languages (Supplementary Methods 2.1.2). Our results should therefore be interpreted as providing general patterns and broad-brush predictions rather than specific detail on particular languages. Predictor variables We included ten broad categories of variables to describe key extrinsic factors that influence language vitality (Table 1). Variables were either recorded per language, as a weighted average across the language area or national values, or for a 10,000 km2 ‘neighbourhood’ around the language (see Supplementary Methods for details). For each language, we recorded the reported number of L1 speakers, endangerment level (Supplementary Table 1), distribution62, level of documentation61, whether the language has official recognition in any country, or is officially recognized as a language of education. We characterized the ‘language ecology’ by the diversity of languages in the surrounding area, the number and proportion of endangered languages in the area, the relative representation of speakers compared to nearby languages, and whether it occurs in a country (or countries) that has one of nine ‘world languages’ as an official language (Supplementary Table 3). We recorded levels of educational attainment and education spending at national level, as well as the presence of a general provision for the use of minority languages for instruction in all or part of formal schooling, and whether each language is recognized for use in education (Supplemenary Tables 5 and 6). Socioeconomic context is represented by Gross Domestic Product per capita (GDPpc), the Gini index of income inequality and life expectancy at 60 years of age (Supplementary Tables 5 and 7), noting that these national averages do not capture variation between groups or areas within each country (see Supplementary Information 2.4). To represent the environmental context of each language, we included variables representing population density, climate, land use, biodiversity loss, connectivity and ‘shift’ (that is, the rate of change in land use, population, built environment) (Table 1). Because language loss is often a result of language expansion replacing autochthonous languages, we included measures of connectivity: density of roads and navigable waterways (which encourage human movement) and landscape roughness and altitudinal extent (which discourage human movement). To indicate human impact on the natural environment, we included ‘human footprint’ (which summarizes anthropogenic impacts on the environment69) and measures of biodiversity loss. We included factors previously shown to be correlates of language diversity: mean growing season, average temperature, temperature seasonality and precipitation seasonality (we did not include species richness because biodiversity patterns are not significantly associated with language diversity above and beyond these climatic covariables17). To model the impact of changing landscape and environment, we included rates of change in urbanization, population density, land use and human footprint69. The variables we included vary in their degree of spatial resolution. For variables concerning legislation and policy (for example, provision for minority language education), data is typically available only at country level. For some socioeconomic variables, such as life expectancy, there is regional data for some countries, but most areas only have country level data, so for consistency we used national averages provided by global organizations such as the World Bank and World Health Organization (Table 1). For environmental variables, such as temperature seasonality, we averaged values over all grid cells in the language distribution area, but for landscape factors influencing human movement, such as mountains and roads, values within the language area are not fully informative because we wish to capture movement between language areas. For these variables, we averaged over all grid cells in a ‘neighbourhood’ centred on the language distribution. For full details of the spatial resolution of each variable, see Supplementary Methods. The variables included in this study necessarily represent current environments, socioeconomic status and contemporary policy settings. Aside from shift variables (Table 1), which represent change over time, we cannot directly capture historical processes, such as past educational programmes, historical disease epidemics, warfare or genocide. These are important factors in language endangerment but cannot be easily represented in globally consistent, universally available variables, so investigating the impact of these factors is beyond the scope of this analysis. Analysis Previous analyses of global language endangerment included relatively few potential predictors and did not control for the confounding effects of both spatial proximity and relationships between languages2,4,20,66. Languages that cluster in space will share many environmental, social and economic features. Related languages may share not only many linguistic features but also many environmental, social and economic factors and shared historical influences17. All analyses rest on the assumption that datapoints are statistically independent of each other, so if we find that the residuals of the model show phylogenetic signal, then phylogenetic non-independence (when datapoints are related by descent) violates the assumption of standard statistical tests and can lead to spurious relationships70,71. Our method estimates the contribution of relatedness to observed patterns of endangerment, so that if there is little or no influence of relatedness on patterns of endangerment, then the phylogeny will have no effect on the outcomes17. A large contribution of phylogeny tells us that languages tend to be more similar to related languages in their endangerment status than they are to randomly selected languages. This does not imply that languages inherit either their endangerment status or threatening processes from their ancestors, but that relatives show patterns of similarity of endangerment72. If this is the case, we need to account for this phylogenetic non-independence in our analysis, so that we can identify factors that are significantly associated with endangerment above the association which is expected purely due to their shared relationships (closely related languages having more similar patterns of endangerment). Failure to account for spatial autocorrelation can lead to false inference of patterns of language endangerment19. For example, socioeconomic indicators such as GDP have a strong latitudinal gradient, and so does language diversity and range size, so if range size is associated with endangerment, we would expect a significant correlation between GDP and language endangerment even if there is no direct influence of one on the other71. Just as repeatedly sampling two neighbouring areas but counting each observation as a unique datapoint inflates perceived environmental correlations by pseudoreplication73, repeatedly sampling related languages with similar cultural traits, linguistic features, historical influences and language ecologies also potentially inflates perceived associations between endangerment and environmental or social factors19,70. Both of these sources of covariation in the data must be accounted for to find meaningful correlates of language endangerment. In our analysis, the dependent variable is the level of endangerment, based on EGIDS rankings (Supplementary Table 1). We are seeking global correlates of language endangerment, but we are aware that some threatening processes may have greater or lesser impact in different regions (Supplementary Methods 2.1.3). Therefore, in addition to the predictors we described above, we included an interaction term between each region and each independent predictor, to account for any region-specific effect of the predictor on endangerment. This interaction term was constructed by taking the product of the predictor and a binary variable recording whether a language belongs to the region. Any interaction term with no variation in the corresponding region was removed. Instead, we included an intercept for each region to account for differences in the average level of language endangerment among regions. In total, we have 51 predictors, 51 by 12 interaction terms, and 12 intercepts in the independent variables (Supplementary Data 3). The basic steps of our statistical analysis are: - (1) applying transformations to the 51 predictors (Supplementary Methods 4.1, Table 1), then calculating their interaction terms; - (2) grouping the 51 predictors according to their pairwise correlation (Supplementary Methods 4.2) and grouping interaction terms with their corresponding predictors (Supplementary Data 3); - (3) dividing the dataset into two, with two-thirds of the languages assigned to a training dataset and one-third to a test dataset. The training dataset was used to select the independent variables (candidate models) to predict current endangerment level (Supplementary Methods 4.3) and the test dataset was used to evaluate the fit of these candidate models to predict endangerment level (Supplementary Methods 4.4); - (4) using the best model, re-estimating the model parameters using all 6,511 languages; - (5) using the predicted change in L1 speaker population, environment and climate to generate future values of variables, then using the best model to predict future endangerment given these predicted future values (Supplementary Methods 5). Because the dependent variable in our analysis (endangerment level) is an ordinal variable, we used ordinal probit regression74 to model language endangerment status. To satisfy the parallel regression assumption (that an independent variable has the same effect on threat status across all endangerment levels) for the majority of variables, we grouped recorded EGIDS scores into seven levels by combining levels 1–6a into a ‘stable’ level (Supplementary Methods 4.2 and Table 1). To account for spatial and phylogenetic autocorrelation, we constructed three matrices. The phylogenetic matrix represents relationships between languages as inferred from a taxonomy, with branch lengths scaled to relative divergence depths17 (Supplementary Methods 3). The distance matrix captures similarity in nearby languages due to shared environment using an exponentially decreasing function of the great-circle distance between the centroids of polygons of two languages. Since distance between centroids may not reflect on-the-ground language contact, we also used a contact matrix which contains 1 if two language polygons overlap (allowing a buffer of 100 km around each polygon), and 0 otherwise. We do not expect this contact matrix to fully capture the degree of ongoing contact between languages, which may be determined by local factors including modes of transport, form of subsistence or connectivity, but we included it to allow for an influence of close association between language distributions as an influence on patterns of endangerment, above and beyond the great-circle distances between the centres of language distributions. The distance, contact and phylogenetic matrices had zero diagonals and each row was normalized to unity. Because each matrix had its own coefficient, if patterns of autocorrelation due to distance, contact or relatedness were not important in shaping the values of variables, then the model would estimate the coefficient to zero and the matrix would not influence the result. We then fitted an autoregressive ordinal probit model to the data. We modelled the threat status of a language as a linear function of not only the independent variables but also the threat status of other languages whose associations with the language depend on the distance, contact and phylogenetic matrices. The model was fitted to the data using a two-stage least squares approach74 implemented in a custom R code based on the ‘ordinalNet’ package75. We used a weighted sum of all the three matrices to describe autocorrelation among languages17. The weight was estimated by maximum likelihood using the ‘L-BFGS-B’ method76 in the ‘optim’ function in R. To select the best model to predict endangerment level in our data, we first randomly divided the data into a training dataset (including 2/3 of the languages) and a test dataset (the remaining 1/3 of the languages). Then, we grouped highly correlated independent variables together and applied a stepwise selection procedure to the training dataset (see step 3) to select candidate models (details in Supplementary Methods 4.4). The procedure started with a model of a single independent variable that had the highest likelihood to the training dataset, then goes through each group (see step 2) in a random order by adding a variable of the group to the model that significantly and maximally increased model fit, and removing a variable of the group from the model that had the least and non-significant impact on model fit. These steps were repeated until there were no more variables that could be added that increased model fit, or could be subtracted without reducing model fit. This model selection procedure left us with a set of candidate models. Lastly, we measured the predictive power of each model by predicting the threat status of the languages in the test dataset and constructed the best model on the basis of its predictive power. The best model was constructed by including predictor variables that were selected in over one-third of the candidate models which did not significantly differ in their predictive power from the model with the highest predictive power. We then estimated the coefficients of predictor variables on the complete dataset. We used this best model to predict, for each language, the probability that the language falls in each of the seven endangerment levels (combining 1–6a into one ‘Stable’ level; Supplementary Table 1). Using these probabilities, we randomly sampled the endangerment level of each language and counted the number of languages with sampled endangerment level of 2 or above (that is, EGIDS 6b–10) as the number of languages predicted to be endangered, or those in the top two levels (that is EGIDS 9–10) as the number of languages predicted to be Sleeping. This procedure was repeated 1,000 times to generate the probability distribution of the number of languages predicted to be endangered or Sleeping. We found that the expected endangerment level tends to be lower than the reported endangerment level for individual languages (Supplementary Fig. 6), but, over all the languages, the model accurately predicted the proportions of languages that are endangered and sleeping (Fig. 3). In some cases, the mismatch between predicted and observed endangerment levels may reflect ‘latent risk’ in endangerment status27: languages that have characteristics typical of an endangered language, such as low L1 speaker population size, yet are rated as stable (Extended Data Fig. 1). These languages may be expected to come under increasing threat in the future. For example, Yindjibarndi {yij}, a language of the Pilbara region of Australia, has an EGIDS rating of 6a (Stable) but has a small L1 speaker population (310) and is in an area where many languages are endangered or no longer spoken. Our model predicts the expected endangerment level of this language as ‘Critically Endangered’ (EGIDS 8) at present, and without intervention to ensure language vitality, it could potentially be no longer spoken within 80 years. The reported endangerment level and the predicted probability of each language falling in each endangerment level at present, in 40 years and in 80 years are listed in Supplementary Data 4. Future prediction We used the best model of current language endangerment status to predict possible future changes in endangerment status for our global database of languages. Current EGIDS levels give us information on intergenerational transmission, so we can use that information to model declining L1 speaker population: if a language is currently only spoken by adults and not transmitted to children, then, without revitalization, there will be no more L1 speakers once the current speakers die. EGIDS also indicates which languages are declining in L1 speaker population so we can model the probable decline in numbers in 40 years (2060) and 80 years (2100; Supplementary Methods 5.2.1). These models predict possible patterns of language loss in the absence of revitalization programmes that might increase the number of L1 speakers, by assuming that without intervention to improve language transmission and vitality, endangered languages will undergo demographic shift that changes endangerment level, as described in Supplementary Methods 5.1 and Table 7. These predictions are conservative in the sense that they assume that languages that are not currently endangered will remain stable into the future. We emphasize that this procedure is specifically modelling the shift in number of first language (L1) speakers of a language, not the population they belong to. A population may thrive and its ethnic identity remain strong even if speakers shift to a different language. To model the L1 speaker population size, we need to consider generational transmission of the language (that is, are children learning it as their first language?), rather than the number of people in the population that they belong to. For example, if a language with an EGIDS level of 6b (Threatened) is predicted to be Endangered (EGIDS level 7) in the future on the basis of having no child L1 speakers, we adjust the probability distribution of the endangerment level predicted by the model for the language at that timepoint by shifting the probability distribution one level up, setting the probability that the language has an endangerment level lower than Endangered to zero, and renormalizing the probability distribution. We then randomly sample the endangerment level of each language, and count the number of languages overlapping each hex grid that are Endangered or Sleeping. This procedure is repeated 1,000 times to get the probability distribution of the number of languages predicted to be endangered or sleeping in each hex grid. We plot the combined predictions on a map, showing both the expected value of the number of languages per grid that are endangered or sleeping in 40 and 80 years, and also the proportion of languages per grid that are Threatened, Endangered or Sleeping. In the Supplementary Information, we demonstrate how this predictive model can be extended to incorporate future values of predictor variables, such as changing climate or land use. Reporting Summary Further information on research design is available in the Nature Research Reporting Summary linked to this article. Data availability All variables analysed are provided in Supplementary Data. These variables are derived from a range of sources, as cited in the text and in Table 1 (most of these data are freely available but some are under license). Code availability Code for data preparation is available at https://github.com/rdinnager/language_endangerment. Code for running the analysis is available at https://github.com/huaxia1985/LanguageEndangerment. The custom R code includes functions that modify functions in the ‘ordinalNet’ R package to correct for autocorrelation in ordinal probit regression. Change history 03 February 2022 A Correction to this paper has been published: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-022-01684-4 References Rehg, K. L. & Campbell, L. The Oxford Handbook of Endangered Languages (Oxford Univ. Press, 2018). Romaine, S. in Language and Poverty (eds Harbert, W. et al.) Ch. 8 (Multilingual Matters, 2009). Sallabank, J. & Austin, P. The Cambridge Handbook of Endangered Languages (Cambridge Univ. Press, 2011). Sutherland, W. J. Parallel extinction risk and global distribution of languages and species. Nature 423, 276–279 (2003). Eberhard, D. M., Simons, G. F. & Fennig, C. D. Ethnologue: Languages of the World 22nd edn (SIL International, 2019); https://www.ethnologue.com/ Moseley, C. Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger (UNESCO Publishing, 2010); http://www.unesco.org/culture/en/endangeredlanguages/atlas Catalogue of Endangered Languages (University of Hawaii at Manoa, 2020); http://www.endangeredlanguages.com Campbell, L. & Okura, E. in Cataloguing the World’s Endangered Languages 1st edn (eds Campbell, L. & Belew, A.) 79–84 (Routledge, 2018). The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species Version 2019-2 (IUCN, 2019); http://www.iucnredlist.org Romaine, S. in The Routledge Handbook of Ecolinguistics (eds Fill, A. F. & Penz, H.) Ch. 3 (Routledge, 2017). Crystal, D. Language Death (Cambridge Univ. Press, 2000). Simons, G. F. Two centuries of spreading language loss. Proc. Linguist. Soc. Am. 4, 27–38 (2019). Krauss, M. The world’s languages in crisis. Language 68, 4–10 (1992). Brondizio, E. S., Settele, J., Díaz, S. & Ngo, H. T. (eds) Global Assessment Report on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES, 2019). Bowern, C. Language vitality: theorizing language loss, shift, and reclamation (Response to Mufwene). Language 93, e243–e253 (2017). Mufwene, S. S. Language vitality: The weak theoretical underpinnings of what can be an exciting research area. Language 93, e202–e223 (2017). Hua, X., Greenhill, S. J., Cardillo, M., Schneemann, H. & Bromham, L. The ecological drivers of variation in global language diversity. Nat. Commun. 10, 2047 (2019). Grenoble, L. A. & Whaley, L. J. in Endangered Languages (eds Grenoble, L. A. & Whaley, L. J.) 22–54 (Cambridge Univ. Press, 1998). Cardillo, M., Bromham, L. & Greenhill, S. J. Links between language diversity and species richness can be confounded by spatial autocorrelation. Proc. R. Soc. B 282, 20142986 (2015). Amano, T. et al. Global distribution and drivers of language extinction risk. Proc. R. Soc. B 281, 20141574 (2014). Loh, J. & Harmon, D. Biocultural Diversity: Threatened Species, Endangered Languages (WWF, 2014). Fishman, J. A. Reversing Language Shift: Theoretical and Empirical Foundations of Assistance to Threatened Languages Vol. 76 (Multilingual Matters, 1991). Lewis, M. P. & Simons, G. F. Assessing endangerment: expanding Fishman’s GIDS. Rev. Roum. Linguist. 55, 103–120 (2010). Hinton, L. in The Green Book of Language Revitalization in Practice (eds Hinton, L. & Hale, K.) 413–417 (Brill, 2001). Hobson, J. R. Re-awakening Languages: Theory and Practice in the Revitalisation of Australia’s Indigenous Languages (Sydney Univ. Press, 2010). Di Marco, M. et al. A novel approach for global mammal extinction risk reduction. Conserv. Lett. 5, 134–141 (2012). Cardillo, M., Mace, G. M., Gittleman, J. L. & Purvis, A. Latent extinction risk and the future battlegrounds of mammal conservation. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 103, 4157–4161 (2006). Bolam, F. C. et al. How many bird and mammal extinctions has recent conservation action prevented? Conserv. Lett. 14, e12762 (2020). Balmford, A. Extinction filters and current resilience: the significance of past selection pressures for conservation biology. Trends Ecol. Evol. 11, 193–196 (1996). Brenzinger, M. Language Death: Factual and Theoretical Explorations with Special Reference to East Africa (Mouton de Gruyter, 1992). Aikhenvald, A. Y. in Language Endangerment and Language Maintenance: An Active Approach (eds Bradley, D. & Bradley, M.) 24–33 (Taylor & Francis, 2002). Aikhenvald, A. Y. in Lectures on Endangered Languages: 5. Endangered Languages of the Pacific Rim (eds Sakiyama, O. & Endo, F.) 97–142 (ELPR, 2004). van Driem, G. in Language Diversity Endangered (ed. Brenzinger, M.) Ch. 14 (Mouton de Gruyter, 2007). Muysken, P. in Historicity and Variation in Creole Studies (eds Highfield, A. & Valdman, A.) 52–78 (Karoma, 1981). Gal, S. Language Shift: Social Determinants of Linguistic Change in Bilingual Austria (Academic Press, 1979). Holmquist, J. Social correlates of a linguistic variable: a study in a Spanish village. Lang. Soc. 14, 191–203 (1985). Dobrin, L. M. in Endangered Languages: Beliefs and Ideologies in Language Documentation and Revitalization (eds Austin, P. K. & Sallabank, J.) Ch. 7 (British Academy, 2014). Sasse, H.-J. in Language Death: Factual and Theoretical Explorations with Special Reference to East Africa (ed Brenzinger M.) 7–30 (Mouton de Gruyter, 1992). Wang, Y. & Phillion, J. Minority language policy and practice in China: the need for multicultural education. Int. J. Multicult. Educ. 11, 1–14 (2009). McCarty, T. L. in Language Policies in Education: Critical Issues (ed. Tollefson, J. W.) 285–307 (2002). Wiese, A.-M. & Garcia, E. E. The Bilingual Education Act: language minority students and equal educational opportunity. Biling. Res. J. 22, 1–18 (1998). Bromham, L., Hua, X., Algy, C. & Meakins, F. Language endangerment: a multidimensional analysis of risk factors. J. Lang. Evol. 5, 75–91 (2020). Gao, X. & Ren, W. Controversies of bilingual education in China. Int. J. Biling. Educ. Biling. 22, 267–273 (2019). Dimmendaal, G. J. in Investigating Obsolescence: Studies in Language Contraction and Death (ed. Dorian N. C.) 13-32 (Cambridge Univ. Press, 1989). Brenzinger, M. in Language Diversity Endangered (ed. Brenzinger, M.) IX–XVII (Mouton de Gruyter, 2007). Kuussaari, M. et al. Extinction debt: a challenge for biodiversity conservation. Trends Ecol. Evol. 24, 564–571 (2009). Tilman, D., May, R. M., Lehman, C. L. & Nowak, M. A. Habitat destruction and the extinction debt. Nature 371, 65–66 (1994). Meijer, J. R., Huijbregts, M. A., Schotten, K. C. & Schipper, A. M. Global patterns of current and future road infrastructure. Environ. Res. Lett. 13, 064006 (2018). Laurance, W. F. & Balmford, A. A global map for road building. Nature 495, 308–309 (2013). Newbold, T. et al. Global effects of land use on local terrestrial biodiversity. Nature 520, 45–50 (2015). Crawford, J. Language politics in the U.S.A.: the paradox of bilingual education. Soc. Justice 25, 50–69 (1998). Hallett, D., Chandler, M. J. & Lalonde, C. E. Aboriginal language knowledge and youth suicide. Cogn. Dev. 22, 392–399 (2007). Taff, A. et al. in The Oxford Handbook of Endangered Languages (eds Rehg, K. & Campbell, L.) 862–883 (Oxford Univ. Press, 2018). Dinku, Y. et al. Language Use is Connected to Indicators of Wellbeing: Evidence from the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Social Survey 2014/15. CAEPR Working Paper no. 132/2019 (CAEPR, 2020); https://doi.org/10.25911/5ddb9fd6394e8 Essegbey, J., Henderson, B. & McLaughlin, F. Language Documentation and Endangerment in Africa (John Benjamins, 2015). Davis, J. L. Language affiliation and ethnolinguistic identity in Chickasaw language revitalization. Lang. Commun. 47, 100–111 (2016). Clyne, M. in Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (eds Fase, W. et al.) 17–36 (John Benjamins, 1992). Cardillo, M. et al. The predictability of extinction: biological and external correlates of decline in mammals. Proc. R. Soc. B 275, 1441–1448 (2008). Evans, N. Dying Words: Endangered Languages and What They Have to Tell Us Vol. 22 (John Wiley & Sons, 2011). Ndhlovu, F. in Language Planning and Policy: Ideologies, Ethnicities, and Semiotic Spaces of Power (eds Abdelhay, A. et al.) 133–151 (Cambridge Scholars, 2020). Hammarström, H., Forkel, R. & Haspelmath, M. Glottolog 4.1. http://glottolog.org (Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, 2019). Lewis, M. P., Simons, G. F. & Fennig, C. D. Ethnologue: Languages of the World 17th edn http://www.ethnologue.com (SIL International, 2013). King, K. A., Schilling-Estes, N., Lou, J. J., Fogle, F. & Soukup, B. Sustaining Linguistic Diversity: Endangered and Minority Languages and Language Varieties (Georgetown Univ. Press, 2008). Lee, N. H. & van Way, J. Assessing levels of endangerment in the Catalogue of Endangered Languages (ELCat) using the Language Endangerment Index (LEI). Lang. Soc. 45, 271–292 (2016). Language Vitality and Endangerment: International Expert Meeting on UNESCO Programme Safeguarding of Endangered Languages (UNESCO, 2003). Tershy, B. R., Shen, K.-W., Newton, K. M., Holmes, N. D. & Croll, D. A. The importance of islands for the protection of biological and linguistic diversity. BioScience 65, 592–597 (2015). Igboanusi, H. Is Igbo an endangered language? Multilingua 25, 443–452 (2006). Ravindranath, M. & Cohn, A. C. Can a language with millions of speakers be endangered? J. Southeast Asian Linguist. Soc. 7, 64–75 (2014). Venter, O. et al. Sixteen years of change in the global terrestrial human footprint and implications for biodiversity conservation. Nat. Commun. 7, 12558 (2016). Bromham, L., Hua, X., Cardillo, M., Schneemann, H. & Greenhill, S. J. Parasites and politics: why cross-cultural studies must control for relatedness, proximity and covariation. R. Soc. Open Sci. 5, 181100 (2018). Bromham, L., Skeels, A., Schneemann, H., Dinnage, R. & Hua, X. There is little evidence that spicy food in hot countries is an adaptation to reducing infection risk. Nat. Hum. Behav. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-020-01039-8 (2021). Purvis, A., Cardillo, M., Grenyer, R. & Collen, B. in Phylogeny and Conservation (eds Purvis, A. et al.) 295–316 (Cambridge Univ. Press, 2005). Hurlbert, S. H. Pseudoreplication and the design of ecological field experiments. Ecol. Monogr. 54, 187–211 (1984). Dow, M. M. Network autocorrelation regression with binary and ordinal dependent variables: Galton’s problem. Cross Cult. Res. 42, 394–419 (2008). Wurm, M. J., Rathouz, P. J. & Hanlon, B. M. Regularized ordinal regression and the ordinalNet R package. Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.05003 (2017). Byrd, R. H., Lu, P., Nocedal, J. & Zhu, C. A limited memory algorithm for bound constrained optimization. SIAM J. Sci. Comput. 16, 1190–1208 (1995). Barro, R. L. & Lee, J.-W. A new data set of educational attainment in the world, 1950–2010. J. Dev. Econ. 104, 184–198 (2013). Leclerc, J. L’aménagement linguistique dans le monde http://www.axl.cefan.ulaval.ca/monde/index_alphabetique.htm (2019). Solt, F. The Standardized World Income Inequality Database, Version 8 https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/LM4OWF (2019). Global Agro-ecological Zones (GAEZ v3.0) (FAO, IIASA, 2010). Author information Authors and Affiliations Contributions L.B., R.D., H.S., A.R., M.C., F.M., S.G. and X.H. conceived and designed the experiments; X.H. analysed the data; L.B., R.D., H.S., A.R. and M.C. contributed materials/analysis tools; L.B. wrote the paper. Corresponding author Ethics declarations Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. Additional information Peer review information Nature Ecology and Evolution thanks Ruth Oliver, Salikoko Mufwene, Claire Bowern and Hannah Wauchope for their contribution to the peer review of this work. Peer reviewer reports are available. Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Extended data Extended Data Fig. 1 Residual in the best model for language endangerment level. Residuals of the model predicting number of endangered languages (a) and Sleeping languages (b), calculated, for each hex grid, as the predicted number of languages with distribution in the hex grid and with (A) predicted endangerment level above ‘Stable’ (corresponding to EGIDS 6b-10) and (B) predicted to be no longer spoken (ie EGIDS 9-10) minus the number of languages with distribution in the hex grid and with reported EGIDS from 6b-10 (A) and from 9-10 (B). The predicted number of languages in each category is calculated by using the best model to estimate the probability distribution of endangerment level for each language with distribution in the hex grid, sampling from the probability distribution the endangerment level of each language, repeating the sampling 1000 times, and averaging the number of languages with sampled endangerment level of endangered or Sleeping over the 1000 times. A negative value (blue) indicates that the model estimates fewer endangered or Sleeping languages than the reported EGIDS score from Ethnologue (e17/e16). A positive value (red) indicates the model estimating a greater number of endangered or Sleeping languages than observed. In some cases, this could indicate higher ‘latent risk’, for languages that have many of the predictors of high endangerment but are currently rated as stable or at a lower level of endangerment. Dark grey areas do not have data for all the independent variables in the best model for language endangerment level. Language distribution data from WLMS 16 worldgeodatasets.com. Extended Data Fig. 2 Current and future predicted distribution of endangered languages. The current patterns of language endangerment are plotted as absolute number of languages with a reported EGIDS score of 6b-10 with distribution in each hex grid. a) the number of languages with observed EGIDS from 6b to 10 at present. b) the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 in 40 years minus the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 at present. c) the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 in 80 years minus the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 in 40 years. The predicted number of languages is calculated in the same way as Supplementary Fig. 7. Dark grey areas have no data for independent variables in the best model for language endangerment level. Language distribution data from WLMS 16 worldgeodatasets.com. Extended Data Fig. 3 Current and future predicted proportion of endangered languages. a) the proportion of languages with observed EGIDS from 6b to 10 at present. b) the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 in 40 years minus the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 at present. c) the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 in 80 years minus the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 6b to 10 in 40 years. The predicted proportion of languages is calculated as the predicted number of languages divided by the total number of languages with distribution in each hex grid, where the predicted number of languages is calculated in the same way as Fig. 7. Dark grey areas have no data for independent variables in the best model for language endangerment level. Language distribution data from WLMS 16 worldgeodatasets.com. Extended Data Fig. 4 Current and future predicted number of languages no longer spoken. a) the number of languages with observed EGIDS from 9 to 10 at present. b) the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 in 40 years minus the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 at present. c) the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 in 80 years minus the predicted number of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 in 40 years. The predicted number of languages is calculated in the same way as Fig. 7. Dark grey areas have no data for independent variables in the best model for language endangerment level. Language distribution data from WLMS 16 worldgeodatasets.com. Extended Data Fig. 5 Current and future predicted proportion of languages no longer spoken. The proportion of Sleeping languages with distribution in each hex grid. a) the proportion of languages with observed EGIDS from 9 to 10 at present. b) the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 in 40 years minus the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 at present. c) the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 in 80 years minus the predicted proportion of languages with EGIDS from 9 to 10 in 40 years. The predicted proportion of languages is calculated as the predicted number of languages divided by the total number of languages with distribution in each hex grid, where the predicted number of languages is calculated in the same way as Fig. 7. Dark grey areas have no data for independent variables in the best model for language endangerment level. Language distribution data from WLMS 16 worldgeodatasets.com. Supplementary information Supplementary Information Supplementary Information. Supplementary Data Supplementary Data 1–4. Rights and permissions Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. About this article Cite this article Bromham, L., Dinnage, R., Skirgård, H. et al. Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic diversity. Nat Ecol Evol 6, 163–173 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-021-01604-y Received: Accepted: Published: Version of record: Issue date: DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41559-021-01604-y This article is cited by - Lost in translation: advancing intervention adaptation for populations with non-dominant language preference in high diversity settings Implementation Science Communications (2025) - English proficiency and national competitiveness in sustainable development research based on a bibliometric analysis Discover Sustainability (2025) - Le système Meta AI donne un coup de pouce aux langues menacées - à condition que les humains ne soient pas oubliés Nature Africa (2024) - Meta’s AI system is a boost to endangered languages — as long as humans aren’t forgotten Nature (2024) - Islands are engines of language diversity Nature Ecology & Evolution (2024)


--- [What is the future of the world’s linguistic diversity?] ---
No content


--- [1,500 endangered languages at high risk of being lost this century] ---
1,500 endangered languages at high risk of being lost this century New study identifies 51 stressors on endangered languages - Date: - December 19, 2021 - Source: - Australian National University - Summary: - A new study warns 1,500 endangered languages could no longer be spoken by the end of this century. - Share: A world-first study warns 1,500 endangered languages could no longer be spoken by the end of this century. The study, led by The Australian National University (ANU), identified predictors that put endangered languages at high risk. Co-author Professor Lindell Bromham said that of the world's 7,000 recognised languages, around half were currently endangered. "We found that without immediate intervention, language loss could triple in the next 40 years. And by the end of this century, 1,500 languages could cease to be spoken." Published in Nature Ecology and Evolution, they study charts the widest range of factors ever putting endangered languages under pressure. One finding was that more years of schooling increased the level of language endangerment. The researchers say it shows we need to build curricula that support bilingual education, fostering both indigenous language proficiency as well as use of regionally-dominant languages. "Across the 51 factors or predictors we investigated, we also found some really unexpected and surprising pressure points. This included road density," Professor Bromham said. "Contact with other local languages is not the problem -- in fact languages in contact with many other Indigenous languages tend to be less endangered. "But we found that the more roads there are, connecting country to city, and villages to towns, the higher the risk of languages being endangered. It's as if roads are helping dominant languages 'steam roll' over other smaller languages." The researchers say the findings also have important lessons for preserving many of the endangered languages spoken by Australia's First Nations peoples. "Australia has the dubious distinction of having one of the highest rates of language loss worldwide," Professor Felicity Meakins, from the University of Queensland and one of the study's co-authors, said. "Prior to colonisation, more than 250 First Nations languages were spoken, and multilingualism was the norm. Now, only 40 languages are still spoken and just 12 are being learnt by children. "First Nations languages need funding and support. Australia only spends $20.89 annually per capita of the Indigenous population on languages, which is abysmal compared with Canada's $69.30 and New Zealand's $296.44." Professor Bromham said that as the world enters the UNESCO Decade of Indigenous Languages in 2022, the study's findings were a vital reminder that more action was urgently needed to preserve at-risk languages. "When a language is lost, or is 'Sleeping' as we say for languages that are no longer spoken, we lose so much of our human cultural diversity. Every language is brilliant in its own way. "Many of the languages predicted to be lost this century still have fluent speakers, so there is still the chance to invest in supporting communities to revitalise indigenous languages and keep them strong for future generations." Story Source: Materials provided by Australian National University. Note: Content may be edited for style and length. Cite This Page:


--- [Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic ...] ---
# Global predictors of language endangerment and the future of linguistic diversity.

Authors: Lindell Bromham, Russell Dinnage, Hedvig Skirgård, Andrew Ritchie, Marcel Cardillo

## Abstract

Language diversity is under threat. While each language is subject to specific social, demographic and political pressures, there may also be common threatening processes. We use an analysis of 6,511 spoken languages with 51 predictor variables spanning aspects of population, documentation, legal recognition, education policy, socioeconomic indicators and environmental features to show that, counter to common perception, contact with other languages per se is not a driver of language loss. However, greater road density, which may encourage population movement, is associated with increased endangerment. Higher average years of schooling is also associated with greater endangerment, evidence that formal education can contribute to loss of language diversity. Without intervention, language loss could triple within 40 years, with at least one language lost per month. To avoid the loss of over 1,500 languages by the end of the century, urgent investment is needed in language documentation, bilingual education programmes and other community-based programmes.


--- [A Dataset on Linguistic Connectivity Across and Within Countries] ---
Abstract We construct a new global dataset on common language. The data cover 242 countries and territories and are based on information about the speakers of 6,675 languages. Using data from Ethnologue, we provide 11 bilateral measures reflecting different dimensions of linguistic connections within and between countries, including common official languages, common native and acquired languages, and linguistic proximity across different languages. A key novelty of the dataset is that it includes consistently defined information on linguistic relationships not only between different countries but within the administrative borders of countries as well. Similar content being viewed by others Background & Summary The Domestic and International Common Language (DICL) Dataset provides new data on linguistic relationships within and between countries1. Using extensive data on 6,675 languages in 242 countries and territories, we have constructed a collection of 11 indices measuring different dimensions of linguistic connections. These indices provide information about common official languages, speakers of common native and acquired (secondary) languages, and linguistic proximity between different languages. Each index provides measures of the linguistic connections between the populations in different countries (international) as well as within each country (domestic). The 11 indices are each able to capture different dimensions of linguistic relationships. We construct two measures of common official language based on a liberal (COL) and a more restrictive definition of official languages (COR). COL and COR capture languages that hold an official status within each country and therefore represent commonalities in the typical languages of business, education, and legal institutions, for example. The index of common native language (CNL) captures the languages spoken as a mother tongue by populations and can reflect both an ability to communicate as well as a wide range of other cultural similarities between populations, such as ethnic ties. The index of common acquired languages (CAL) captures connections between non-native speakers and can be useful in identifying communication through common regional or global languages. The index of common spoken language (CSL) combines native and acquired language speakers into a single measure capturing all linguistic ties. The 6 proximity indices capture populations speaking different but closely related languages that may be mutually or partially intelligible. These proximity indices are divided into two groups referred to as “linguistic” and “branch” proximity indices. The 3 linguistic proximity indices—calculated for native language speakers (LPN), acquired language speakers (LPA), and all speakers (LPS)—are based on the full evolutionary history of each language’s linguistic tree. The 3 branch proximity measures (BPN, BPA, and BPS) similarly account for divergences in language trees but not their full history, offering an alternative treatment of language proximity. The two types of proximity indices allow for the consideration of communication between different languages and across language families. The DICL Dataset1 is derived from linguistic information contained in the Ethnologue: Languages of the World dataset2, which details the number of speakers of each language in each country and is considered one of the most unique and comprehensive sources for this type of information. We did not undertake any additional data collection to adjust or supplement this data source. Thus, the relative contribution of the DICL Dataset is that it contains publicly available, aggregate measures that summarize this micro-level data in order to describe the linguistic relationships between and within countries. The data provided in the DICL Dataset1 expands upon the existing common language information used extensively throughout the literature, such as the data provided by the Dynamic Gravity Dataset3, Melitz and Toubal4, and the GeoDist dataset5. The DICL data are based on a wider collection of languages and more detailed information on the status of these languages throughout the world. The richness of the underlying data allows for the creation of multiple new continuous measures, which are better able to capture the diversity in linguistic ties between populations than the indicator variables present in most other datasets. The dataset is also the first to provide consistently defined measures of both international and domestic language diversity. By comparison, Melitz and Toubal4 provide several continuous measures but these measures are based on more limited linguistic data and do not contain domestic measures. Meanwhile, Desmet et al.6 provide measures of within-country language diversity that draw on many of the same linguistic concepts as the DICL Dataset1 but they do not provide any corresponding international measures. Ultimately, the DICL Dataset is a more comprehensive and diverse source of information on country-level and bilateral linguistic connections than any existing public dataset of its type. The DICL indices present a detailed picture of the extensive and diverse linguistic relationships around the world. The two indices reflecting official languages (COL and COR) present a fairly balanced mix of relationships, with about 40 percent of country pairs exhibiting at least one common official language. Meanwhile, the remaining 6 indices suggest that strong linguistic ties are relatively uncommon and vary considerably in intensity. As an illustration of this rich variation, Fig. 1 depicts the CNL index as a network in which the higher the CNL value between two countries (nodes), the larger and darker the link between them. This visualization in particular highlights the diverse extent to which countries tend to be connected to others linguistically. Some are moderately connected to many other countries, as is often the case with populations speaking major global languages. Some exhibit strong connections with a smaller cluster of other countries, often representing groups of regional neighbors or colonial ties. Others, oriented along the periphery of the network, exhibit few strong connections, reflecting their linguistic remoteness compared to much of the rest of the world. Notably, these patterns illustrate the complex multilateral relationships present in the data that extend from the dyadic values reported for each pair of countries. The other DICL indices paint similarly complex and varied linguistic relationships. Measures of linguistic commonality or fractionalization have been commonly used in empirical studies to identify the direct and indirect impacts of linguistic connections between populations. In some cases, they have been used to examine direct implications of language, such as the ability to communicate. In others, they have been used as proxies for otherwise difficult to observe social connections, such as cultural affinities and identity. Similar measures have been used extensively in anthropology and linguistics7,8, sociology9, political sciences10,11 and economics12,13,14. At the time of writing, several published studies and numerous working papers have already made use of the DICL Dataset1. These studies show that estimates obtained using DICL measures are consistent with estimates in prior literature that used different datasets. Methods Description of the Source Data The DICL indices are built using a single and unique source of data, which is the Ethnologue: Languages of the World dataset (21st edition)2. This is the most comprehensive linguistic dataset available. It describes in detail more than seven thousand languages in 242 countries and territories. We make use of 6,675 languages for which data on native speakers (L1-Users) is reported by Ethnologue. Ethnologue also reports the number of acquired language speakers (L2-Users) for 649 languages. As mentioned by Lewis15, the distinction between languages and dialects is very difficult to draw. There are highly detailed and overlapping subgroups within each language community, each representing different dialects. Ethnologue captures these types of relationships through linguistic family trees, which track how languages and dialects can come together or split apart overtime. These measures of linguistic proximity connect each language and dialect to other languages and dialects, allowing for a more expansive treatment of language. There is a large variation in the number of languages spoken in each country. Some countries have only one or two languages reported in the dataset while others have several hundred languages listed. On average, there are 47 languages spoken in a country, although the median number is about a third of that (17). Papua New Guinea has the largest number of native and total spoken languages, exceeding 800 languages. Meanwhile, there are 9 countries with speakers of only 1 language, such as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Faroe Islands, and Pitcairn. Our data covers a large number of speakers, of which most are considered native speakers. As an illustration, Table 1 presents the most widely-spoken languages based on the total number of speakers (native or acquired) across all countries. English and Mandarin Chinese are the two most widely-spoken languages, both representing more than 1.1 billion speakers globally. Notably, the English-speaking population is primary comprised of acquired speakers across 165 countries while the Mandarin-speaking population is largely made up of native speakers. Construction of the Common Language Indices To construct the DICL language indices, we gather four types of information: the official language(s) of each country; the native and acquired language(s) spoken in each country; and linguistic trees, which are used to construct cladistic distances between different languages. This information is used to construct 11 separate indices describing different dimensions of linguistic relationships within and between countries. These indices include 2 measures describing common official languages, 3 measures describing common native and/or acquired languages, and 6 measures describing the linguistic proximity between distinct languages. We use the Ethnologue data as it is provided. We do not alter the languages spoken within a country or the populations of speakers. Consequently, the DICL Dataset is intended to provide new summary measures of language connections rather than new linguistic micro-data. For the two official languages indices, we follow the Ethnologue definition of official language, which specifies the function for which each language is recognized in a country. Ethnologue’s definitions of language status are described in Table 3 of the Methodology section of their site (https://www.ethnologue.com/methodology/). We derive two measures based on different definitions for official language. The first (COLij) uses a liberal definition that includes languages identified by Ethnologue as serving any official function—whether national or provincial, statutory or de facto. The second is a “restricted” version (CORij) that is based on a narrower subset of official languages representing only national statutory or de facto languages. Specifically, CORij utilizes only languages designated with the function codes “SNL” (statutory national language), “SNW” (statutory national working language), “DNL” (de facto national language), and “DNW” (de facto national working language). It does not include languages that are official at the state or provincial but not national level, for example. These official languages are the ones in which government functions and business are conducted throughout the country. Both indices represent a major difference with existing datasets that only consider a limited subset of statutory official languages. The two indices are defined such that they equal 1 if the two countries share a common language that is recognized as having an official function under each respective definition, and 0 otherwise. Within a country (i = j), the indices are set equal to 1 if the country has at least 1 official language. Of the 29,403 unique pairs of countries in the data, 6,386 (21.7 percent) share a common official language under the definition of COL. Meanwhile, under the definition of COR, 5,790 pairs of countries (19.7 percent) share a common official language. For the common native language index (CNLij), we base our measure on the products of the percentages of native speakers of each language in each country pair. This product represents the probability that two people chosen at random from each country share a common native language k. We then aggregate these individual probabilities over all languages spoken in the countries. Specifically, the common native language index is computed as CNLij = ∑k∈K(lki × lkj), ∀i, j ∈ Ω. Ω denotes the set of countries in our dataset and lk is the percentage of native speakers of a specific language k from the set of all languages K in a country i or j. The aggregate index does not necessarily reflect a probability because individuals could potentially exhibit more than one native language. Nonetheless, the intuition remains, as the index is similarly increasing in the likelihood that two people speak a common language. We make full use of the 6,675 languages with speakers available in the dataset to compute the index. The common native language index between populations of the same country is given by \(CN{L}_{ii}={\sum }_{k\in K}{l}_{ki}^{2}\), which is the opposite of the commonly employed ethno-linguistic fractionalization (ELF) index16. For the common acquired language index (CALij), we base our measure on the products of the percentages of speakers of acquired languages in each country pair. The acquired language index is computed as CALij = ∑k∈K(aki × akj), ∀i, j ∈ Ω. The only difference in this computation compared to CNL is that the share of acquired language speakers (aki) is used instead of the share of native speakers. There are 649 languages with acquired speakers available in the dataset to compute the index. The domestic version of the index is similarly defined according to \(CA{L}_{ii}={\sum }_{k\in K}{a}_{ki}^{2}\). It is often the case that individuals speak multiple acquired languages, which can result in index values that exceed 1. These larger values imply that not only can most people speak a common language, many share multiple common languages. As with the CNL index, the CAL index cannot be interpreted as a probability because of the presence of multilingual speakers. However, it is similarly increasing in the frequency that two randomly selected individuals can speak the same language. In total, 116 CAL indices (0.3 percent) are greater than 1. It should also be noted that this index captures ties between acquired language speakers only and does not consider connections between acquired speakers and native speakers. The CAL index is slightly more limited than the official or native language indices described above because there are 46 countries that are lacking any information on acquired language speakers. No CAL index values are given for these 46 countries, resulting in a total of 38,416 CAL records for the other 196 countries. The common spoken language index (CSLij) is derived in the same way as the CNL and CAL indices but is based on speakers of both native and acquired languages. It is computed as \(CS{L}_{ij}={\sum }_{k\in K}[({l}_{ki}+{a}_{ki})\times ({l}_{kj}+{a}_{kj})]\), ∀i, j ∈ Ω. Similarly, the domestic values are computed as \(CS{L}_{ii}={\sum }_{k\in K}{({l}_{ki}+{a}_{ki})}^{2}\). Of the three common language measures, CSL provides the broadest coverage as it captures native speakers sharing a common language with acquired speakers and, therefore, reflects language ties between all speakers. As with CAL, the CSL index can exceed 1 in cases where populations widely share more than 1 common language. 163 of the values (0.4 percent) are greater than 1. The CSL index is also limited by the unavailability of acquired speaker information for 46 countries and does not include values for these countries. For the linguistic proximity indices (LPNij, LPAij, LPSij, BPNij, BPAij, and BPSij), we turn to linguistic trees. The indices are inspired by ideas from Laitin17 and Fearon11, who used the Ethnologue classification of languages into trees, branches, and sub-branches as the basis to compare different languages. Within the classification, languages are broadly grouped into 152 language families with common characteristics based on root proto-languages. Stemming from the proto-languages, languages are repeatedly split into different branches and sub-branches with their closest relatives. These linguistic trees provide a means for evaluating the similarities between two languages based on the proximity of their respective branches. For example, languages on a common branch within a family may share many words, characters, and other systematic features—often rendering them mutually intelligible. The further apart two languages are, however, the fewer features they share in common and the less likely it is that any parts of them are intelligible. For the 3 “linguistic proximity” indices, we develop an algorithm that makes use of all languages in our dataset and the full structure of the language trees. It measures the cladistic distance between languages by how far two languages are from their closest common proto-language. Using the linguistic family classification provided by Ethnologue, we compare the proportion of the linguistic tree that each pair of languages shares to the proportion in which they diverge. Linguistic proximity (Pkh) between languages k and h is given by the number of common branches (bkh) the two languages share starting at the proto-language divided by the average length of the branches that terminate in each language (bk or bh), or Pkh = bkh/[0.5(bk + bh)]. For example, if two languages split after the seventh branch, one of those languages is 10 steps removed from its proto-language, and the other language is 11 steps removed, then the proximity for these two languages is 7/10.5 or 0.6667. To account for the fact that most countries have populations speaking multiple languages, we use the speaker share in a country to aggregate across languages. This results in a population-weighted measure of linguistic proximity. We compute the native language proximity index as LPNij = ∑k∑h≠k(lki × lhj × Pkh), ∀i, j ∈ Ω. Notably, the aggregation is based solely on pairings of different languages (k ≠ h) as same language pairs are already described by the the CNL index. A similar index is constructed for acquired languages (LPAij) and all spoken languages (LPSij) using each country’s acquired language share (aik) and native plus acquired language share (lik + aik), respectively. Using this algorithm, we construct an index that takes a value of zero if two languages do not originate from a common proto-language and share no part of a language tree. For languages that stem from the same proto-language, a value between zero and one is assigned. Languages that diverge early in their family tree receive lower proximity score than languages that share many common branches prior to splitting. Low index values signal that the populations largely do not speak any closely related languages. High index values may be indicative of two types of connections. In all cases, larger values suggest the presence of widely spoken, closely related languages. For the LPA and LPS indices, larger values may also reflect multilingualism in related languages, which allows for higher values than LPN. The “linguistic proximity” measures are based on the proportion of each language’s branches that are shared. As a result, the relative length of each language’s respective tree influences the LPN, LPA, and LPS indices. As alternative measures that are not dependent on the full length of the trees, we derive three additional indices referred to as “branch proximity” indices. To construct these indices, we define branch proximity between two different languages in terms of the number of times a branch has split since the two languages shared a common branch. Specifically, we define branch proximity as \({R}_{kh}=\left(M-[0.5({b}_{h}+{b}_{k})-{b}_{kh}]\right)/M\). M denotes the maximum possible tree length for any language (\(\mathop{\max }\limits_{k}({b}_{k})\)), which is used to normalize Rkh between 0 and 1 and make it decreasing in the level of separation, similar to the LP measure (Pkh). However, while Pkh reduces the effective value of branch splits when trees are longer, Rkh treats each split as having the same value regardless of tree length. In cases where languages belong to separate linguistic trees and share no common branches, we set Rkh = 0. Using the branch proximity measure, we derive three branch proximity indices that aggregate across all languages spoken in each country. The definitions for each respective measure follow those used to define the linguistic proximity measures but use Rkh in place of Pkh. Specifically, BPNij = ∑k∑h≠k(lki × lhj × Rkh), ∀i, j ∈ Ω. Meanwhile, BPAij and BPSij are defined in the same way using aij and lij + aij instead of lij, respectively. As with the LP indices, the BP indices are increasing in the frequency with which populations speak related languages as well as the closeness of those of those languages. Index Values The language data paints a vivid picture of the complex ways in which countries are interconnected via language. Table 2 provides summary statistics of each variable in the DICL Dataset1. As demonstrated by the mean and percentiles, most pairs of countries exhibit relatively weak linguistic ties and low index values compared to the countries with the greatest ties and largest values. Importantly, each index reflects distinct dimensions of linguistic connections. To further emphasize these differences, Table 3 presents a correlation matrix for the 11 measures. In most cases, the correlations between the indices are relatively low, implying that each is capturing different types of variation in language patterns. The notable exceptions are the 2 official language indices and the corresponding pairs of LP and BP measures. In both cases, the high correlations are expected as the correlated indices differ based on relatively small differences in definition rather than fundamental differences in what they measure. Overall, the differences in the information embodied in each index may be important for users and should be considered carefully when using the data. Data Records The DICL Dataset1 is available from the Harvard Dataverse (https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/8WGJTL) as well as from the U.S. International Trade Commission’s Gravity Portal (https://www.usitc.gov/data/gravity/dicl.htm). It can be downloaded as a single comma separated text file (.csv) and is about 8.4 MB in size. In total, the Dataset contains 15 columns and 58,565 rows comprised of indices for 29,403 unique country pairs. For convenience, the international records are mirrored so that there is a record for both the pair (i, j) and (j, i). The domestic records appear once for each country. The 15 columns contain each of the language measures described in the previous section as well as names and ISO 3-digit alpha identifiers for each country. The first row of each column contains a column label. The columns are defined as follows. - iso3_i: Country i ISO 3-letter alpha identifier - country_i: Country i name - iso3_j: Country j ISO 3-letter alpha identifier - country_j: Country j name - col: Common official language indicator - cor: Restricted official language indicator based on a narrower definition of what qualifies as an official language - cnl: Common native language index - cal: Common acquired language index - csl: Common spoken language index (native and acquired) - lpn: Linguistic proximity index for different native languages - lpa: Linguistic proximity index for different acquired languages - lps: Linguistic proximity index for different spoken languages (native and acquired) - bpn: Branch proximity index for different native languages - bpa: Branch proximity index for different acquired languages - bps: Branch proximity index for different spoken languages (native and acquired) Technical Validation To validate the quality of the data, we consider a few different approaches. First, we compare the new DICL data with several of the other prominent datasets describing international common languages. These comparisons demonstrate that the DICL indices are highly correlated with these other sources when they reflect similar types of relationships. Second, we demonstrate that the index values are successful in capturing and summarizing expected real-world linguistic patterns. Finally, we note that research using the DICL indices has regularly produced estimates that are consistent with most past research on international and domestic common language. These approaches demonstrate that the DICL index values, which consolidate extensive information on global language-speaking populations into parsimonious measures, reflect these language patterns effectively and accurately. Comparison with Prior Measures The DICL Dataset1 provides some data that is comparable with many of the measures commonly used throughout the literature. Table 4 presents the correlation between each DICL index and the closest measures from 3 other sources. First, the “common_language” (both countries share a commonly spoken language based on the CIA World Factbook) indicator of the Dynamic Gravity Dataset3. Second, the “comlang_off” (common official language) and “comlang_ethno” (common language spoken by at least 9% of population in each country) indicators of the GeoDist dataset5. Third, the “col” (common official language) indicator, “cnl” (common native language) index, “csl” (common spoken acquired language) index, “lp1” (linguistic proximity based on language trees) index, and “lp2” (linguistic proximity based on common words) index of Melitz and Toubal4, hereafter “MT 2014”. Despite aiming to capture similar types of linguistic relationships, these measures differ from the DICL data in terms of the data they are based upon, technical definition, and language coverage. The measures of MT 2014 represent the closest comparison to the DICL indices as there are similarities in the definitions for all but the “LP” measures. Notably, the country coverage of the DICL (242 countries) is generally greater than that of the GeoDist (224) or MT 2014 (195) datasets, but fewer than the Dynamic Gravity Dataset (254). The correlation coefficients presented here are based solely on the common country-pairs. For the sake of parsimony, only the correlations between variables that ostensibly measure similar dimensions of linguistic relationships, thereby representing meaningful comparisons, are presented. Some of the new DICL indices are highly correlated with earlier measures but others diverge substantially. We observe relatively high correlation between the measures when their technical definitions align, such as between the official language indicators and the CNL/cnl and CSL/csl indices of the DICL and MT 2014 datasets. We interpret this as validation that many of the DICL indices align with existing linguistic data sources. In other cases, the correlations are lower, driven at least partially by differences in how the variables are defined. In all cases, we expect differences to arise because of the DICL Dataset’s1 greater coverage of more languages and use of more recent source data. Comparison with Expected Patterns To validate that the constructed indices reflect the real world language patterns they are intended to reflect, we consider whether the indices appear to systematically capture certain expected features of language demographics. Looking at the mean value of each country’s indices, we can examine their implied linguistic connectivity to the rest of the world. Table 5 presents the 5 most and least closely connected countries based on each index. The mean official language indices, COL and COR, tend to be high for countries with multiple recognized languages—especially those that recognize globally or regionally prominent languages. Such countries include India and Rwanda, for example. The least connected via official languages are simply the countries that have no officially recognized languages, such as Saint Helena, Ascension, and Tristan da Cunha and the Aland Islands. The common language indices highlight numerous different types of connections. The countries with the highest average CNL indices tend to be countries that are linguistically homogeneous and have large native English-speaking populations, such as Saint Helena, Ascension, and Tristan da Cunha; Isle of Man; and Guernsey. The least connected on average tend to be countries with native speakers of many different languages, such as Cameroon (nearly 170 different languages) or the Democratic Republic of the Congo (more than 200 languages). The CAL index highlights a very different set of counties. The most connected tend to be countries with very large populations of English acquired speakers, such as Northern Marianas and Dominica. The CAL index also highlights countries like Luxembourg, which has a diverse set of native languages but it’s speakers also speak multiple acquired languages in large numbers, such as French, German, English, Italian, and Spanish. The CSL index similarly highlights countries with large populations of speakers of major global languages, including those that speak these major languages naively, like the United Kingdom. It also highlights countries with rampant multilingualism in prominent languages, such as Luxembourg. Meanwhile, the least connected based on the CAL index are countries with relatively low levels of multilingualism, such as Iran and Japan. Similarly, the least connected based on the CSL index are countries that largely speak uncommon languages and have relatively small multilingual populations, such as East Timor and Bhutan. The linguistic proximity indices identify countries with many extensive connections between closely related languages. The highest LPN countries are generally those with large populations speaking a language that is itself not especially prominent globally but is closely related to major international languages. For example, these countries include majority Portuguese and Italian speaking countries like Brazil, Portugal, and Italy. By comparison, the countries with the smallest LPN indices are largely east Asian countries with majority languages that are not closely related to any major global languages. For LPA, the most connected countries are largely European countries with large populations of speakers that have learned the major languages of Europe and elsewhere. Notably, several central European countries, such as Croatia and Slovenia, have especially high average LPA indices due to their populations of both western language and Russian speakers. The countries with the lowest LPA indices are mainly countries with few speakers of any major acquired language, such as Iran and Turkey. The LPS index highlights many of the same types of countries as the LPN and LPA indices, although not always in the same order. The branch proximity indices highlight many of the same countries as the linguistic proximity indices, particularly in terms of the least connected. As with the linguistic proximity measures, the least connected based on the branch proximity indices are those with few speakers of any languages belonging to widely spoken language families. Notably, the most connected countries based on the branch proximity indices do differ from those based on the linguistic proximity indices. In particular, BPN, BPA, and BPS tend to highlight countries speaking languages with shorter family trees, such as those widely spoken in Armenia (Armenian) and Vietnam (Vietnamese), for example. By comparison, the countries highlighted by the linguistic proximity measures are those speaking languages with longer family trees, like Brazil and Portugal (Portuguese) or Italy (Italian). Across all indices, the constructed measures appear to generally replicate anticipated patterns in language demographics. Countries that are globally well connected consistently feature high index values while countries with few linguistic ties feature low index values. Evidence from Empirical Studies Over the first several years for which the DICL data have been publicly available, several studies have used the data as part of their empirical analysis. These studies have generally produced estimates using the DICL indices that are consistent with past findings using other linguistic information, suggesting that the DICL data is capturing linguistic relationships in a consistent and expected way. These findings are consistent across different empirical questions and fields of study. In a companion piece, we have tested the data extensively in a typical international trade model18. When included as a determinant of trade in econometric regressions, many of the DICL indices yield positive and significant coefficient estimates that are consistent in sign and magnitude with both theoretical predictions and other empirical applications using this type of linguistic data. Notably, some of the DICL indices are shown to statistically outperform other popular data series that have been used extensively. When included alongside alternative language measures, the DICL indices rendered the other measures statistically insignificant, suggesting that the DICL indices capture key aspects of linguistic variation more effectively than the older indices. Numerous other studies have utilized the DICL data and produced similarly consistent results. In examining the role of cultural similarity in determining migration patterns, Grohmann19 shows that using DICL data to control for linguistic similarity produces estimates that are similar in magnitude and direction to those in earlier work that use different data to measure language. Fontagńe et al.20 examine the role of infrastructure in pan-African trade. In this estimation, the authors use the DICL linguistic proximity index as a control for ease of communication, producing positive and significant results that are consistent with prior literature on language and trade. Miricola et al.21 use DICL common language measures to check the robustness of their estimation results and also show that the estimates are positive, significant, and consistent with prior literature. Among the published work, Paniagua et al.22 use the native linguistic proximity index as a control while studying tourism flows and Frensch et al.23 use the indices as a control while studying topography and trade. Both studies, again, show that linguistic similarity has a positive and significant impact on trade. We interpret these results as being strong empirical evidence that the new DICL indices are capturing linguistic patterns relevant to social and economic outcomes in an appropriate and effective way. Usage Notes The country identifiers in the DICL Dataset1 generally match ISO 3-digit country codes. The limited exceptions to be aware of are cases where ISO codes have changed over time or often differ from source to source (e.g. ROU/ROM for Romania or MNE/MNT for Montenegro). A list of common cases like these can be found in the technical documentation of the Dynamic Gravity Dataset (table C3) at https://www.usitc.gov/data/gravity/dynamic_gravity_technical_documentation_v1_00_1.pdf. The DICL uses the same country identifiers as the Dynamic Gravity Dataset3 and International Trade and Production dataset24. Combining the DICL data with the economic, geographic, and international trade information in these datasets should be seamless. The contents of this data descriptor reflect version 2 of the dataset (v2). The initial version of the DICL Dataset (v0), which was released in 2021, contained fewer indices (only COL, CNL, LPN) and used a slightly different definition for linguistic proximity compared to the current version described here (the earlier measure included same-language pairings). It also originally included a composite index equal to 0.5 × (CNL + LPN). Version 1 (v1) of the dataset, which was released in March 2024, added several additional indices (COR, CNA, CNS, LPA, and LPS), dropped the composite index, and began omitting same-language pairs from the calculation of the linguistic proximity indices. Version 2 of the dataset, which was released in December 2024, added three additional indices (BPN, BPA, and BPS) and corrected an issue with the calculation of the linguistic proximity indices in version 1. Specifically, a small number of languages that terminated at the same point on a linguistic tree were unintentionally treated as being the same language and were omitted from the calculation in version 1. This omission affected relatively few indices overall and very few indices significantly; however a small number of linguistic proximity indices are substantially larger in this latest version. Version 2 also reintroduced one language that had been inadvertently omitted in version 1, resulting in a small change to the index values for several countries, primarily in East and Southeast Asia. Code availability The code used to produce the DICL Dataset1 from the source data is included as part of the dataset repository hosted by the Harvard Dataverse (https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/8WGJTL). The code consists of a single Python script that draws on 3 data files. Two of the data files reflect the source data from Ethnologue, representing information on the speakers of each language in each country and language family trees, respectively. The third data file contains a list of country names and ISO codes. While we are unable to provide the Ethnologue source data, we have included representations of the data files, with actual values replaced with placeholders to avoid disclosure, as comments in the Python script to illustrate the structure of these datasets for anyone without access to this Ethnologue data. The file containing country names is included as part of the repository. The dataset was created using Python (version 3.11.8) and the Pandas package (version 2.1.4)25,26. References Gurevich, T., Herman, P. R., Toubal, F. & Yotov, Y. V. The domestic and international language (DICL) database. Harvard Dataverse https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/8WGJTL (2024). Simons, G. F. & Fennig, C. D.Ethnologue: Languages of the World (SIL International, Dallas, Texas, 2018), 21 edn. https://www.ethnologue.com/. Gurevich, T. & Herman, P. The dynamic gravity dataset: 1948-2016. USITC Working Paper 2018-02-A https://www.usitc.gov/data/gravity/dgd.htm (2018). Melitz, J. & Toubal, F. Native language, spoken language, translation and trade. Journal of International Economics 93, 351–363, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jinteco.2014.04.004 (2014). Mayer, T. & Zignago, S. Notes on CEPII’s Distances Measures: The GeoDist Database. CEPII Working Paper 2011-25, https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1994531 (2011). Desmet, K., Ortuño-Ortín, I. & Weber, S. Linguistic diversity and redistribution. Journal of the European Economic Association 7, 1291–1318, https://doi.org/10.1162/JEEA.2009.7.6.1291 (2009). Greenberg, J. H. The measurement of linguistic diversity. Language 32, 109–115, https://doi.org/10.2307/410659 (1956). Greenberg, J. H.Language in the Americas (Stanford University Press, 1987). https://www.sup.org/books/anthropology/language-americas. Lieberson, S. An extension of Greenberg’s linguistic diversity measures. Language 40, 526–531, https://doi.org/10.2307/411935 (1964). Fearon, J. D. & Laitin, D. D. Weak states, rough terrain, and large-scale ethnic violence since 1945. In Annual Meetings of the American Political Science Association, Atlanta, GA, vol. 8, 19–99, https://web.stanford.edu/group/fearon-research/cgi-bin/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Weak-States-Rough-Terrain-and-Large-Scale-Ethnic-Violence-Since-1945.pdf (1999). Fearon, J. D. Ethnic and cultural diversity by country. Journal of economic growth 8, 195–222, https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1024419522867 (2003). Ginsburgh, V. & Weber, S. The economics of language. Journal of Economic Literature 58, 348–404, https://doi.org/10.2307/27030435 (2020). Ginsburgh, V., Weber, S. & Macmillan, P. The Palgrave handbook of economics and language. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-137-32505-1 (Springer, 2016). Gazzola, M. & Wickström, B.-A. The economics of language policy https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262034708/the-economics-of-language-policy/ (MIT Press, 2016). Lewis, B.From Babel to dragomans: interpreting the Middle East https://doi.org/10.1093/oso/9780195173369.001.0001 (Oxford University Press, 2005). Alesina, A., Devleeschauwer, A., Easterly, W., Kurlat, S. & Wacziarg, R. Fractionalization. Journal of Economic Growth 8, 155–194, https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1024471506938 (2003). Laitin, D. D. What is a language community? American Journal of political science 142–155, https://doi.org/10.2307/2669300 (2000). Gurevich, T., Herman, P. R., Toubal, F. & Yotov, Y. V. One nation, one language? domestic language diversity, trade, and welfare. CEPR Discussion Paper Series DP15701, https://repec.cepr.org/repec/cpr/ceprdp/DP15701.pdf (2021). Grohmann, T. Cultural similarity and migration: New evidence from a gravity model of international migration. IOS Working 404, https://www.econstor.eu/handle/10419/281137 (2023). Fontagné, L., Lebrand, M., Murray, S., Ruta, M. & Santoni, G. Trade and Infrastructure Integration in Africa. SSRN https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4672520 (2023). Miricola, S., Rungi, A. & Santoni, G. Ownership chains in multinational enterprises. arXiv Papers 2305.12857, https://ideas.repec.org/p/arx/papers/2305.12857.html (2023). Paniagua, J., Peiró-Palomino, J. & Santana-Gallego, M. Does happiness drive tourism decisions? Economic Modelling 111, 105824, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.econmod.2022.105824 (2022). Frensch, R., Fidrmuc, J. & Rindler, M. Topography, borders, and trade across europe. Journal of Comparative Economics 51, 816–832, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jce.2023.02.002 (2023). Borchert, I., Larch, M., Shikher, S. & Yotov, Y. V. The international trade and production database for estimation (ITPD-E). International Economics 166, 140–166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.inteco.2020.08.001 (2021). The pandas development team. pandas-dev/pandas: Pandas. Zenodo https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3509134 (2020). McKinney, W. Data structures for statistical computing in Python. In van der Walt, S. & Millman, J. (eds.) Proceedings of the 9th Python in Science Conference, 56–61, https://doi.org/10.25080/Majora-92bf1922-00a (2010). Acknowledgements The views expressed in this paper are strictly those of the authors and do not represent the opinions of the United States International Trade Commission or any of its commissioners. Author information Authors and Affiliations Contributions All authors contributed to the design of the dataset and analytical approaches. T.G. and P.H. constructed the data. P.H. produced the data descriptions. P.H. and F.T. wrote the manuscript. All authors reviewed and revised the manuscript. Corresponding author Ethics declarations Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. Additional information Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Rights and permissions Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modified the licensed material. You do not have permission under this licence to share adapted material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/. About this article Cite this article Gurevich, T., Herman, P.R., Toubal, F. et al. A Dataset on Linguistic Connectivity Across and Within Countries. Sci Data 12, 542 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-04692-8 Received: Accepted: Published: Version of record: DOI: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-04692-8
