=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Azra Akšamija Appointed to Aga Khan Award for Architecture 2025 Master Jury – Art, Culture, and Tech]
Azra Akamija Appointed to Aga Khan Award for Architecture 2025 Master Jury Art Culture and Technology ACT. Azra Aksamija received the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 2013 for her artistic work in the Altach Islamic Cemetery. She is the editor of the book Arch...
URL: https://act.mit.edu/2024/10/azra-aksamija-appointed-to-aga-khan-award-for-architecture-2025-master-jury/

[Publications | Aga Khan Academies]
Aga Khan Academy Dhaka is a programme of the Aga Khan Development Network AKDN. The AKDN is a group of development organisations with mandates that include the environment health education architecture culture microfinance rural development disaster reduction th...
URL: https://www.agakhanacademies.org/dhaka/publications

[Why Choose the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad | Aga Khan Academies]
Why Choose the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad Aga Khan Academies jump to NavigationHome. Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad has been awarded IB status by the International Baccalaure
URL: https://www.agakhanacademies.org/hyderabad/why-choose-aga-khan-academy-hyderabad

[Community Service | Aga Khan Academies]
Aga Khan Academies are a programme of the Aga Khan Development Network AKDN The AKDN is a group of development organisations with mandates that include the environment health education architecture culture microfinance rural development disaster reduction the pr...
URL: https://www.agakhanacademies.org/maputo/community-service

[Speeches | Aga Khan Academies]
Speeches by Salim Bhatia Director of Academies at the 2017 Aga Khan Academies graduation ceremonies. Keynote address by the first lady of the Republic of Kenya at the 2016 graduation ceremony. His Highness the Aga Khan spoke at the foundation stonelaying ceremon...
URL: https://www.agakhanacademies.org/general/speeches


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Azra Akšamija Appointed to Aga Khan Award for Architecture 2025 Master Jury – Art, Culture, and Tech] ---
ACT Professor and Director Azra Akšamija has been appointed to Aga Khan Award for Architecture 2025 Master Jury. The independent panel, responsible for selecting the winners of the prestigious US$ 1 million Award, will meet in January to evaluate and shortlist projects from hundreds of nominations worldwide. Dean Hashim Sarkis is on the steering committee. Following the selection of the shortlist, projects will undergo rigorous on-site reviews by independent experts, the majority of whom are architects, conservation specialists, planners or structural engineers. The Jury will meet for a second time in summer 2025 to examine the on-site reviews and select the final winners. The selection process emphasizes architecture that not only provides for people’s physical, social and economic needs, but also stimulates and responds to their cultural aspirations. Particular attention is given to building schemes that use local resources and appropriate technology in innovative ways and to projects likely to inspire similar efforts elsewhere. Azra Akšamija is an artist and architectural historian born in Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina and based in Boston. She is a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Department of Architecture, where she is the director of the Art, Culture and Technology Program. She is the founding director of the MIT Future Heritage Lab (FHL). She holds a MArch from Princeton University, a PhD in Architecture from MIT and a Diploma Engineer degree from the Technical University Graz. Akšamija’s work explores the intersection of art, design, history and preservation, often focusing on cultural heritage, identity and social justice issues. Her artistic practice engages with topics such as the representation of Islam in the West, the agency and resilience of refugee communities, and the role of art in addressing social inequalities and environmental challenges. She is the author of two books: Mosque Manifesto: Propositions for Spaces of Coexistence (2015) and Museum Solidarity Lobby (2019); and the co-editor of Design to Live: Everyday Inventions from a Refugee Camp (2021) with Raafat Mazjoub and Melina Philippou. She has exhibited her work in leading international venues and museums in Zagreb, Belgrade and Ljubljana, the Sculpture Center and Queens Museum of Art in New York, the Royal Academy of Arts London and Design Festivals in Milan, Istanbul, Eindhoven and Amman. Most recently, her work has been shown at the Kunsthaus Graz in 2024, the Diriyah Contemporary Art Biennale 2024, the Venice Architecture Biennale in 2023 and 2021, and the Aga Khan Museum Toronto in 2020. Her work has been recognised with the Art Award of the City of Graz in 2018, an honorary doctorate from the Montserrat College of Art (2020), the LafargeHolcim Award 2021 and the Emerging Voices Award by the Architectural League New York in 2022. She received the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 2013 for her artistic work in the Altach Islamic Cemetery. She is the editor of the book Architecture of Coexistence, Building Pluralism published in 2020, which features Award recipients in Europe as case studies. She served as an on-site reviewer for the Award in 2016.


--- [Publications | Aga Khan Academies] ---
View all Academies publications icon_top.png find_an_academy.jpg You can also keep up-to-date with latest news on the Aga Khan Academy Dhaka on our Facebook page.


--- [Why Choose the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad | Aga Khan Academies] ---
Why Choose the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad Admission to the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad is based on merit. This is broadly defined as exceptional intellectual potential, leadership, a commitment to learning, strong sense of integrity, and the desire to work towards and instigate positive change. As part of a network of Academies, we have been established to provide exceptional students from all backgrounds with an outstanding education. We seek students representing a diverse range of economic, cultural, ethnic and religious backgrounds. We look for students who have the ability and motivation to excel academically and who demonstrate leadership in community service and other co-curricular pursuits. We are more than just residential schools that strive to give their students a sound academic foundation. We emphasise the importance of academic excellence while instilling in students a sense of civic responsibility and the desire, ability and commitment to give back to their communities locally and globally. "In my view, the most important thing a student can learn in any educational institution is the ability to keep on learning." Our educational approach measures success not just by academic achievement, but by how students apply what they know to make the world a better place. The overall educational programme is designed to foster students’ curiosity while providing them with the skills and intellectual confidence to engage with what they do not know and find answers and solutions.


--- [Community Service | Aga Khan Academies] ---
Community Service Community service is a major part of the student experience at the Academy. Both the curriculum and student life incorporate aspects of community service. Service opportunities extend the educational experience beyond the classroom and help our students learn about the real-world implications of their studies. Through community projects with local organisations and groups, our students gain a sense of the connections between their education and the world around them. Students can participate in a variety of structured community initiatives and internships to learn about their place in the world. By partnering with local agencies of the Aga Khan Development Network, students learn first-hand about the operations of an organisation, and work toward making tangible contributions to the agencies. In addition, community engagement gives our students an understanding of broad concepts such as human rights, dignity and autonomy, while emphasising the ethos of leaving the world a better place. To learn more about the Academy's programme, please visit the Academic Programme page.


--- [Speeches | Aga Khan Academies] ---
Director of Academies Salim Bhatia's welcoming remarks to the 2017 graduating classes at the Aga Khan Academies in both Hyderabad and Mombasa. Speeches Keynote address by Her Excellency Margaret Kenyatta, First Lady of the Republic of Kenya, at the 10th graduation ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Mombasa Speech by Salim Bhatia, Director of Academies, at the 10th graduation ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Mombasa Graduating student Joshua Ekirikubinza's speech, given on behalf of the Aga Khan Academy Mombasa's Class of 2015 Welcome address by Director of Academies Salim Bhatia at the AKA Hyderabad and AKA Mombasa 2015 graduation ceremonies (conducted simultaneously) Keynote speech by Dr Matt Reed, CEO AKF India at the 2015 graduation ceremony in Hyderabad Welcome address by Salim Bhatia, Director of the Aga Khan Academies network, at the inauguration of the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad Speech by His Highness the Aga Khan at the inauguration ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad Speech by Director of Academies, Salim Bhatia, at the graduation ceremony at the Aga Khan Academy Mombasa Keynote speech by Mr Jan Mohamed at the graduation ceremony at the Aga Khan Academy Mombasa Remarks by His Highness the Aga Khan at the Academy of Sciences in Lisbon Speech by Dr Hossain Zillur Rahman at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Dhaka Speech by His Highness the Aga Khan at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Dhaka Salim Bhatia's welcoming remarks at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Dhaka Welcome address by Salim Bhatia at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Kampala Speech by H.E. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Kampala Remarks by His Highness the Aga Khan at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Kampala Remarks by His Highness the Aga Khan at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the residential campus, Aga Khan Academy Mombasa Salim Bhatia's welcoming remarks at the residential campus foundation stone-laying ceremony, Aga Khan Academy Mombasa Speech by the Chief Minister at the foundation-stone laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad Opening remarks by Salim Bhatia at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad Remarks by His Highness the Aga Khan at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aga Khan Academy Hyderabad Remarks by His Highness the Aga Khan at the groundbreaking ceremony of the International Academic Centre of Excellence, Dar es Salaam
