=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Andrew Dickson White - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Feb 20, 2026 · Like her husband, Helen was a social scientist and educator; the two met at a conference where she was presenting a paper. Together, Helen and Andrew had one daughter, Karin White. One of Andrew's cousins was Edwin White, who became an artist of the Luminism /Hudson River schools. His nephew was Horace White, governor of New York. Education
URL: https://alchetron.com/Andrew-Dickson-White

[Andrew Dickson White - Wikipedia]
[5] One of Andrew's cousins, Edwin White, became an artist of the Luminism style and Hudson River School. [6] His nephew was Horace White, governor of New York. Beginning in the fall of 1849, White enrolled as an undergraduate at Geneva College, known today as Hobart and William Smith Colleges, at the insistence of his father. [7]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Dickson_White

[Andrew Dickson White - Wikiwand]
[5] One of Andrew's cousins, Edwin White, became an artist of the Luminism style and Hudson River School. [6] His nephew was Horace White, governor of New York. Beginning in the fall of 1849, White enrolled as an undergraduate at Geneva College, known today as Hobart and William Smith Colleges, at the insistence of his father. [7]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Andrew_Dickson_White

[Andrew Dickson White Facts for Kids]
Andrew Dickson White facts for kids Andrew and his brother were baptized at a church in Homer. One of Andrew's cousins, Edwin White, became a famous artist. His nephew, Horace White, later became the governor of New York. College Days In 1849, White started college at Geneva College, which is now called Hobart and William Smith Colleges. He felt that this small school was not the right fit for ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Andrew_Dickson_White

[Andrew Dickson White Explained]
Horace and Clara White had two children: Andrew Dickson and his brother. Andrew was baptized in 1835 at the Calvary Episcopal Church on the town green in Homer. [5] One of Andrew's cousins, Edwin White, became an artist of the Luminism style and Hudson River School. [6] His nephew was Horace White, governor of New York.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Andrew_D._White/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Andrew Dickson White - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name Andrew White Preceded by None | || Role Former New York State Senator Books A History of the Warfare of Scienc, Fiat Money Inflation in France, The warfare of science, Seven Great Statesme, Paper ‑ Money Inflation i Similar People Ezra Cornell, Helen Magill White, Sidney Drell, Esther Dyson | || Succeeded by Aaron Augustus Sargent | Andrew Dickson White (November 7, 1832 – November 4, 1918) was an American historian and educator, who was the cofounder of Cornell University and served as its first president for nearly two decades. He was known for expanding the scope of college curriculae. A politician, he had served as state senator in New York. He was later appointed as a US diplomat to Germany and Russia, among other responsibilities. Contents - Family and personal life - Education - Early professional life - Diplomatic career and later work - Bibliophile - Death - Conflict thesis - Cornell University - Legacy and honors - References Family and personal life He was born on November 7, 1832 in Homer, New York, to Clara (née Dickson) and Horace White. Clara was the daughter of Andrew Dickson, a New York State Assemblyman in 1832 and his wife; and Horace was the son of Asa White, a farmer from Massachusetts, and his wife. Their once-successful farm was ruined by a fire when Horace was 13. Despite little formal education and struggles with poverty after his family lost its farm, Horace White became a businessman and wealthy merchant. In 1839 he opened what became a successful bank in Syracuse. Horace and Clara White had two children: Andrew Dickson and his brother. Andrew was baptized in 1835 at the Calvary Episcopal Church on the town green in Homer. He married twice. He married first, on September 27, 1857, Mary Amanda Outwater (February 10, 1836 – June 8, 1887), daughter of Peter Outwater and Lucia M. Phillips of Syracuse. Mary's maternal grandmother Amanda Danforth, daughter of Asa Danforth, Jr. and wife of Elijah Phillips, Jr., was the first white child born in what would become Onondaga County, New York. Her great-grandfathers included General Asa Danforth, an early pioneer of upstate New York and leader of the State Militia, as well as Elijah Philips, Sr., who had responded to the alarm to Lexington, Massachusetts, in 1775 and later served as the High Sheriff of Onondaga County. Andrew and Mary had three children together: Frederick Davies White, who committed suicide in his forties in 1901 after a prolonged series of illnesses; Clara (White) Newbury, who died before her father; and Ruth (White) Ferry. After his wife died in 1887, White went on a lecture tour and traveled in Europe with his close friend, Daniel Willard Fiske, librarian at Cornell. After two years as a widower, in 1890, White married Helen Magill, the daughter of Edward Magill, Swarthmore College's second president. She was the first woman in the United States to earn a Ph.D. Like her husband, Helen was a social scientist and educator; the two met at a conference where she was presenting a paper. Together, Helen and Andrew had one daughter, Karin White. One of Andrew's cousins was Edwin White, who became an artist of the Luminism/Hudson River schools. His nephew was Horace White, governor of New York. Education Beginning in the fall of 1849, White enrolled as an undergraduate at Geneva College (known today as Hobart and William Smith Colleges) at the insistence of his father. He was inducted as member of Sigma Phi. In his autobiography, he recalled that he had felt that his time at Geneva was "wasted" by being at the small Episcopalian school, instead of at "one of the larger New England universities". Rather than continue "wasting" his time, White dropped out in 1850. After a period of estrangement, White persuaded his father to let him transfer to Yale College. At Yale, White was a classmate of Daniel Coit Gilman, who would later serve as first president of Johns Hopkins University. The two were members of the Skull and Bones secret society and would remain close friends. They traveled together in Europe after graduation and served together on the Venezuela Boundary Commission (1895–96). His roommate was Thomas Frederick Davies, Sr., who later became the third bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Michigan, 1889–1905. Other members of White's graduating year included Edmund Clarence Stedman, the poet and essayist; Wayne MacVeagh, Attorney General of the United States and U.S. Ambassador to Italy; and Hiram Bingham II, the missionary, collectively comprising the so-called "famous class of '53." According to White, he was deeply influenced in his academic career and life by Professor Noah Porter (later, Yale's president), who personally instructed him in rhetoric and remained a close personal friend until Porter's death. Alpha Sigma Phi inducted White as a member in 1850 and he served as editor of the fraternity's publication, The Tomahawk. White remained active in the fraternity for the rest of his life, founding the Cornell chapter and serving as the national president from 1913 to 1915. He also served as an editor of The Lit., known today as the Yale Literary Magazine. He belonged to Linonia, a literary and debating society. As a junior, White won the Yale literary prize for the best essay, writing on the topic "The Greater Distinctions in Statesmanship;" this was a surprise as traditionally a senior was chosen for the winning essay. Also as a junior, White joined the junior society Psi Upsilon. In his senior year, White won the Clark Prize for English disputation and the De Forest prize for public oratory, speaking on the topic "The Diplomatic History of Modern Times". Valued at $100, the De Forest prize was then the largest prize of its kind at any educational institution, American or otherwise. In addition to academic pursuits, White was on the Yale crew team, and competed in the first Harvard–Yale Regatta in 1852. After graduation, White traveled and studied in Europe with his classmate Daniel Coit Gilman. Between 1853 and 1854, he studied at the Sorbonne, the Collège de France, and the University of Berlin. He also served as the translator for Thomas H. Seymour, the U.S. Ambassador to Russia, following Gilman's term as translator, although he had not studied French (the language of diplomacy and the Russian royal court) prior to his studies in Europe. After he returned the United States, White enrolled at Yale to earn an M.A. in History and be inducted into Phi Beta Kappa in 1856. Early professional life In October 1858, White accepted a position as a Professor of History and English literature at the University of Michigan, where he remained on faculty until 1863. White made his lasting mark on the grounds of the university by enrolling students to plant elms along the walkways on The Diag. Between 1862 and 1863, he traveled to Europe to lobby France and England to assist the United States in the American Civil War or at least not come to the aid of the Confederate States. In 1863, White returned to reside in Syracuse for business reasons. In November, he was elected to the New York State Senate, running on the Union Party ticket. In the senate, White met fellow upstate senator Ezra Cornell, a self-taught Quaker farmer from Ithaca who had made a modest fortune in the telegraph industry. Around this time, the senators were called on to decide how best to use the higher education funding provided by the Morrill Land-Grant Colleges Act, which allocated timber land in the Midwest, which states could sell as they saw fit. Through effective management by Cornell, New York generated about $2.5 million (equivalent to $49 million in today dollars) from its allotted scrip, a greater yield per acre than any state, except, perhaps, California. The senators initially wanted to divvy the funds among the numerous small state colleges of their districts. White fervently argued that the money would be more effectively used if it endowed only one university. Ezra Cornell agreed, telling White, "I have about half a million dollars more than my family will need: what is the best thing I can do with it for the State?" To which, White immediately replied "The best thing you can do with it is to establish or strengthen some institution of higher learning". The two thus combined their efforts to form a new university. White pressed for the university to be located on the hill in Syracuse (the current location of Syracuse University) due to the city's transportation hub. This could help attract faculty, students, and other persons of note. However, as a young carpenter working in Syracuse, Cornell had been robbed of his wages, and insisted that the university be located in his hometown of Ithaca; he proposed to donate land on his large farm on East Hill, overlooking the town and Cayuga Lake. White convinced Cornell to give his name to the university "in accordance with [the] time-honored American usage" of naming universities after their largest initial benefactors. On February 7, 1865, White introduced a bill "to establish the Cornell University" and, on April 27, 1865, after months of debate, Governor Reuben E. Fenton signed into law the bill endowing Cornell University as the state's land-grant institution. White became the school's first president and served as a professor in the Department of History. He commissioned Cornell's first architecture student, William Henry Miller, to build his president's mansion on campus. White was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1884. In 1891, Leland and Jane Stanford asked White to serve as the first president of Stanford University, which they had founded in Palo Alto, California. Although he refused, he recommended his former student David Starr Jordan. Diplomatic career and later work While at Cornell, in 1871, he took leave to serve as a Commissioner to Santo Domingo, along with Benjamin Wade and Samuel Howe, at the request of President Grant in order to determine the feasibility of a United States annexation of the Dominican Republic. Their report (available here) supported the annexation, but Grant was unable to gain sufficient political support to take further action. Later, White was appointed as the US Ambassador to Germany (1879–1881). After returning to the United States, he was elected as first president of the American Historical Association (1884–1886). Upstate New York Republicans nominated him for governor in 1876 and for Congress in 1886, but he did not win either primary. Following his resignation in 1885 as Cornell's president, White served as Minister to Russia (1892–1894), President of the American delegation to The Hague Peace Conference (1899), and again as Ambassador to Germany (1897–1902). In 1904, White published his Autobiography, which he had written during a period of time relaxing in Italy following his retirement from the Department of State with the change in administrations. Cornell's third president, Jacob Gould Schurman, was appointed as ambassador to Germany from 1925 to 1929. At the onset of World War I, White supported the German cause within Europe, because he had strong professional and emotional ties to Germany. By the summer of 1915, he retreated from this position, refraining from offering any support, either publicly or privately. In the fall of 1916, President Woodrow Wilson appointed White to a peace commission to prepare a treaty with China. As of December 1916, White had reduced some of his obligations, resigning from the Smithsonian Board of Regents and the trustees of the Carnegie Institution. Bibliophile Over the course of his career, White amassed a sizable book collection. His library was probably best known for its extensive section on architecture; it was then the largest architecture library in the United States. He donated all 4000 books to the Cornell University Library for the purpose of teaching architecture as well as the remainder of his 30,000-book collection. In 1879, White enlisted George Lincoln Burr, a former undergraduate assistant for one of his seminars, to manage the rare books collection. Though Burr would later hold other positions at the university, such as Professor of History, he remained White's collaborator and head of this collection until 1922 by traveling over Europe, locating and amassing books that White wanted. In particular, he built the collections on the Reformation, witchcraft, and the French Revolution. Today, White's collection is housed primarily in the Cornell Archives and in the Andrew Dickson White Reading Room (formally known as the "President White Library of History and Political Science") at Uris Library on the Ithaca Campus. The A.D. White Reading Room was designed by William Henry Miller, who had also designed White's mansion on campus. While serving in Russia, White made the acquaintance of author Leo Tolstoy. Tolstoy's fascination with Mormonism sparked a similar interest in White, who had previously regarded the Latter-Day Saints (LDS) as a dangerous cult. Upon his return to the United States, White took advantage of Cornell's proximity to the religion's birthplace in Palmyra to amass a collection of LDS memorabilia (including many original copies of the Book of Mormon); it is unmatched by any other institution outside the church itself and its flagship Brigham Young University. Death On October 26, 1918, White suffered a slight paralytic stroke following a severe illness of several days. On the morning of Monday, November 4, White died at home in Ithaca. Three days later, on November 7, on what would have been White's 86th birthday, White was interred at Sage Chapel on the Cornell campus. The chapel was filled to capacity by faculty, trustees, and other well-wishers. White's body resides in a sarcophagus in the Memorial Room with those of other persons deemed influential in the founding and early years of the university, including co-founder Ezra Cornell and benefactor Jennie McGraw-Fiske. His marble sarcophagus was designed in the popular Art Nouveau style. If features crests of countries and institutions that played important roles in White's life. For example, the picture on the right shows the crests of the two countries where White was an ambassador; the coat of arms of Imperial Germany is on left and Saint George, a variation on the coat of arms of Moscow, representing Russia, is on the right. The sarcophagus was completed in 1926 by sculptor Lee Oskar Lawrie (1877–1963), who also created sculptures adorning Myron Taylor Hall at Cornell. Lawrie is perhaps best known for his Atlas statue at Rockefeller Center in New York City. In his will, White left $500,000 (over $7 million in 2008 dollars) to Cornell University. White had already donated considerable sums to Cornell earlier in his life. Conflict thesis At the time of Cornell's founding, White announced that it would be "an asylum for Science—where truth shall be sought for truth's sake, not stretched or cut exactly to fit Revealed Religion." Until then, most of America's private universities had been founded as religious institutions and generally were focused on the liberal arts and religious training. (By the later 19th century, most were not explicitly antagonistic to science). In 1869, White gave a lecture on "The Battle-Fields of Science", arguing that history showed the negative outcomes resulting from any attempt on the part of religion to interfere with the progress of science. Over the next 30 years he refined his analysis, expanding his case studies to include nearly every field of science over the entire history of Christianity but also narrowing his target from "religion" through "ecclesiasticism" to "dogmatic theology." The final result was the two-volume A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom (1896) in which he asserted the conflict thesis of science with dogmatic theology. Initially less popular than John William Draper's History of the Conflict between Religion and Science (1874), White's book became an extremely influential text on the relationship between religion and science. In it,he argued that "the great majority of the early fathers of the Church, and especially Lactantius, had sought to crush it beneath the utterances attributed to Isaiah, David, and St. Paul." White's conflict thesis has been widely disputed among contemporary historians of science. The warfare depiction remains a popular view among critics of religion and the general public. Cornell University Until at least the mid-20th century, Cornell undergraduates with the surname 'White' were traditionally given the nickname 'Andy,' in reference to White. Notably, E.B. White, author of the world-famous children's book Charlotte's Web, continued to go by the nickname 'Andy' for the rest of his life after his undergraduate years at Cornell. Legacy and honors White was awarded numerous honorary degrees:


--- [Andrew Dickson White - Wikipedia] ---
Andrew Dickson White (November 7, 1832 – November 4, 1918) was an American historian and educator who co-founded Cornell University, one of eight Ivy League universities in the United States, and served as its first president for nearly two decades. He was known for expanding the scope of college curricula. A politician, he had served as New York state senator and was later appointed as U.S. ambassador to Germany and Russia.
He was one of the founders of the conflict thesis, which states that science and religion have historically been in conflict, and tried to prove it over the course of approximately 800 pages in his History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom.




--- [Andrew Dickson White - Wikiwand] ---
Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective Andrew Dickson White American historian and politician (1832–1918) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Remove ads Andrew Dickson White (November 7, 1832 – November 4, 1918) was an American historian and educator who co-founded Cornell University, one of eight Ivy League universities in the United States, and served as its first president for nearly two decades. He was known for expanding the scope of college curricula.[2] A politician, he had served as New York state senator and was later appointed as U.S. ambassador to Germany and Russia. He was one of the founders of the conflict thesis, which states that science and religion have historically been in conflict, and tried to prove it over the course of approximately 800 pages in his History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom. Remove ads Early life and education Summarize Perspective White was born on November 7, 1832, in Homer, New York, to Clara (née Dickson) and Horace White.[3] Clara was the daughter of Andrew Dickson, a New York State Representative in 1832 and his wife. Horace was the son of Asa White, a farmer from Massachusetts, and his wife. Their once-successful farm was ruined by a fire when Horace was 13.[3] Despite little formal education and struggles with poverty after his family lost their farm, Horace White became a businessman and wealthy merchant. In 1839, he opened what became Syracuse Savings Bank in Syracuse.[4] Horace and Clara White had two children: Andrew Dickson and his brother. Andrew was baptized in 1835 at the Calvary Episcopal Church on the town green in Homer.[5] One of Andrew's cousins, Edwin White, became an artist of the Luminism style and Hudson River School.[6] His nephew was Horace White, governor of New York. Beginning in the fall of 1849, White enrolled as an undergraduate at Geneva College, known today as Hobart and William Smith Colleges, at the insistence of his father.[7] He was inducted as a member of Sigma Phi Society in 1850 and he served as editor of the fraternity's publication, The Flame. White remained active in the fraternity for the rest of his life, founding the Cornell chapter and serving as the national president from 1913 to 1915.[8] In his autobiography, he recalled that he had felt that his time at Geneva was "wasted" by being at the small Episcopalian school instead of at "one of the larger New England universities".[7] White dropped out in 1850. After a period of estrangement, White persuaded his father to let him transfer to Yale College. At Yale, White was a classmate of Daniel Coit Gilman, who later served as the first president of Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. The two were members of the Skull and Bones[9] secret society and would remain close friends. They traveled together in Europe after graduation and served together on the Venezuela Boundary Commission (1895–1896). His roommate was Thomas Frederick Davies Sr., who later became the third bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Michigan, 1889–1905.[4] Other members of White's graduating year included Edmund Clarence Stedman, the poet and essayist; Wayne MacVeagh, Attorney General of the United States and U.S. Ambassador to Italy; and Hiram Bingham II, the missionary, collectively comprising the so-called "famous class of '53."[10] According to White, he was deeply influenced in his academic career and life by Professor Noah Porter (later, Yale's president), who personally instructed him in rhetoric and remained a close personal friend until Porter's death.[11] He also served as an editor of The Lit., known today as the Yale Literary Magazine. He belonged to Linonia, a literary and debating society.[4] As a junior, White won the Yale literary prize for the best essay, writing on the topic "The Greater Distinctions in Statesmanship;" this was a surprise as traditionally a senior was chosen for the winning essay.[4][12] Also as a junior, White joined the junior society Psi Upsilon. In his senior year, White won the Clark Prize for English disputation and the De Forest prize for public oratory, speaking on the topic "The Diplomatic History of Modern Times". Valued at $100, the De Forest prize was then the largest prize of its kind at any educational institution, American or otherwise.[13] In addition to academic pursuits, White was on the Yale crew team, and competed in the first Harvard–Yale Regatta in 1852.[14] After graduation, White traveled and studied in Europe with his classmate Daniel Coit Gilman. Between 1853 and 1854, he studied at the Sorbonne, the Collège de France, and the University of Berlin. He also served as the translator for Thomas H. Seymour, the U.S. Ambassador to Russia, following Gilman's term as translator, although he had not studied French (the language of diplomacy and the Russian royal court) prior to his studies in Europe. After he returned the United States, White enrolled at Yale to earn a MA and be inducted into Phi Beta Kappa in 1856.[15] Remove ads Career Summarize Perspective Academia In October 1858, White accepted a position as a professor of History and English literature at the University of Michigan, where he remained on faculty until 1863.[16] White made his lasting mark on the grounds of the university by enrolling students to plant elms along the walkways on The Diag.[17] Between 1862 and 1863, he traveled to Europe to lobby France and Britain to assist the United States in the American Civil War or at least not to aid the Confederate States.[16] Founding of Cornell University In 1863, White returned to reside in Syracuse for business reasons. In November, he was elected to the New York State Senate on the Union Party ticket.[18] In the Senate, White met the fellow upstate Senator Ezra Cornell, a self-taught Quaker farmer from Ithaca who had made a modest fortune in the telegraph industry.[19] Around then, the senators were called on to decide how best to use the higher education funding provided by the Morrill Land-Grant Colleges Act, which allocated timberland in the Midwest, which states could sell as they saw fit. Through effective management by Cornell, New York, generated about $2.5 million (equivalent to $64 million in today dollars[20]) from its allotted scrip, a greater yield per acre than any state except perhaps California.[21] The senators initially wanted to divvy the funds among the numerous small state colleges of their districts. White fervently argued that the money would be more effectively used if it endowed only one university. Ezra Cornell agreed and told White, "I have about half a million dollars more than my family will need: what is the best thing I can do with it for the State?" White immediately replied, "The best thing you can do with it is to establish or strengthen some institution of higher learning."[19] The two thus combined their efforts to form a new university. White pressed for the university to be located on the hill in Syracuse, the current location of Syracuse University, because of the city's transportation hub. That could help attract faculty, students, and other persons of note. However, as a young carpenter working in Syracuse, Cornell had been robbed of his wages,[22] and insisted for the university to be in his hometown of Ithaca. He proposed to donate land on his large farm on East Hill, overlooking the town and Cayuga Lake. White convinced Cornell to give his name to the university "in accordance with [the] time-honored American usage" of naming universities after their largest initial benefactors.[19] On February 7, 1865, White introduced a bill "to establish the Cornell University" and, on April 27, 1865, after months of debate, Governor Reuben E. Fenton signed into law the bill endowing Cornell University as the state's land-grant institution.In 1865, White also authored "...The Negro's Right to Citizenship - a very detailed legal, ethical and logical argument for citizenship for the Negro." A staunch abolitionist, White was also the author of "abolition of Slavery the Right of Government under the War Powers Act" as well as several other legal arguments in favor of the Negro."[23] White became the school's first president and served as a professor in the Department of History. He commissioned Cornell's first architecture student, William Henry Miller, to build his president's mansion on campus. White was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society in 1869[24] and American Antiquarian Society in 1884.[25] In 1891, Leland and Jane Stanford asked White to serve as the first president of Stanford University, which they had founded in Palo Alto, California. Although he refused, he recommended his former student David Starr Jordan. Conflict thesis At the time of Cornell's founding, White announced that it would be "an asylum for Science—where truth shall be sought for truth's sake, not stretched or cut exactly to fit Revealed Religion."[26] Until then, most of America's private universities had been founded as religious institutions and generally were focused on the liberal arts and religious training. In 1869, White gave a lecture on "The Battle-Fields of Science" in which he argued that history showed the negative outcomes resulting from any attempt on the part of religion to interfere with the progress of science. Over the next 30 years, he refined his analysis, expanding his case studies to include nearly every field of science over the entire history of Christianity but also narrowing his target from "religion" through "ecclesiasticism" to "dogmatic theology." The final result was the two-volume A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom (1896) in which he asserted the conflict thesis of science being against dogmatic theology. Initially less popular than John William Draper's History of the Conflict between Religion and Science (1874), White's book became an influential text in the 19th century on the relationship between religion and science. White's conflict thesis has been widely rejected among contemporary historians of science.[27][28][29] The warfare depiction remains a popular view among critics of religion.[30] Diplomat While at Cornell, in 1871, he took leave to serve as a Commissioner to Santo Domingo, along with Benjamin Wade and Samuel Howe, at the request of President Ulysses Grant to determine the feasibility of an American annexation of the Dominican Republic. Their report (available here) supported the annexation, but Grant was unable to gain sufficient political support to take further action. Later, White was appointed as the American ambassador to Germany (1879–1881). After returning to the United States, he was elected as the first president of the American Historical Association (1884–1886). Upstate New York Republicans nominated him for governor in 1876 and for Congress in 1886, but he did not win either primary. Following his resignation in 1885 as Cornell's president, White served as the minister to Russia (1892–1894), president of the American delegation to The Hague Peace Conference (1899), and again as ambassador to Germany (1897–1902).[31] In 1904, White published his Autobiography, which he had written while he was relaxing in Italy after his retirement from the Department of State with the change in administrations. Cornell's third president, Jacob Gould Schurman, was appointed as ambassador to Germany from 1925 to 1929. At the onset of World War I, White supported the German cause within Europe because he had strong professional and emotional ties to Germany. By the summer of 1915, he retreated from this position and refrained from offering any support either publicly or privately.[32] In the fall of 1916, President Woodrow Wilson appointed White to a peace commission to prepare a treaty with China.[33] As of December 1916, White had reduced some of his obligations, resigning from the Smithsonian Board of Regents and the trustees of the Carnegie Institution.[33] Bibliophile Over the course of his career, White amassed a sizable book collection. His library included an extensive section on architecture, which then represented the largest architecture library in the United States. He donated all 4,000 books to the Cornell University Library for the purpose of teaching architecture as well as the remainder of his 30,000-book collection.[34] In 1879, White enlisted George Lincoln Burr, a former undergraduate assistant for one of his seminars, to manage the rare books collection. Though Burr would later hold other positions at the university, such as Professor of History, he remained White's collaborator and head of this collection until 1922 by traveling over Europe, locating and amassing books that White wanted. In particular, he built the collections on the Reformation, witchcraft, and the French Revolution.[35] Today, White's collection is housed primarily in the Cornell Archives and in the Andrew Dickson White Reading Room (formally known as the "President White Library of History and Political Science") at Uris Library on the Ithaca Campus. The A.D. White Reading Room was designed by William Henry Miller, who had also designed White's mansion on campus. While serving in Russia, White made the acquaintance of author Leo Tolstoy. Tolstoy's fascination with Mormonism sparked a similar interest in White, who had previously regarded the Latter-Day Saints (LDS) as a dangerous cult. Upon his return to the United States, White took advantage of Cornell's proximity to the religion's birthplace in Palmyra to amass a collection of LDS memorabilia (including many original copies of the Book of Mormon); it is unmatched by any other institution outside the church itself and its flagship Brigham Young University. Remove ads Personal life Summarize Perspective White married twice. His first marriage, on September 27, 1857, was to Mary Amanda Outwater (February 10, 1836 – June 8, 1887), daughter of Peter Outwater and Lucia M. Phillips of Syracuse. Mary's maternal grandmother Amanda Danforth, daughter of Asa Danforth Jr. and wife of Elijah Phillips Jr., was the first white child born in what would become Onondaga County, New York. Her great-grandfathers included General Asa Danforth, an early pioneer of upstate New York and leader of the State Militia, as well as Elijah Philips Sr., who had responded to the alarm to Lexington, Massachusetts, in 1775 and later served as the High Sheriff of Onondaga County.[19] Andrew and Mary had three children together: Frederick Davies White, who committed suicide in his forties in 1901[36] after a prolonged series of illnesses; Clara (White) Newbury, who died before her father; and Ruth (White) Ferry. After his wife died in 1887,[37] White went on a lecture tour and traveled in Europe with his close friend, Daniel Willard Fiske, librarian at Cornell.[19] After three years as a widower, in 1890, White married Helen Magill, the daughter of Edward Magill, Swarthmore College's second president. She was the first woman in the United States to earn a Ph.D.[38] Like her husband, Helen was a social scientist and educator; the two met at a conference where she was presenting a paper. Together, Helen and Andrew had three children. Death and legacy Summarize Perspective On October 26, 1918, White suffered a slight paralytic stroke following a severe illness of several days.[19] On the morning of Monday, November 4, White died at home in Ithaca.[39] Three days later, on November 7, on what would have been White's 86th birthday, White was interred at Sage Chapel on the Cornell campus. The chapel was filled to capacity by faculty, trustees, and other well-wishers.[40] White's body resides in a sarcophagus in the Memorial Room with those of other persons deemed influential in the founding and early years of the university, including co-founder Ezra Cornell and benefactor Jennie McGraw-Fiske. His marble sarcophagus was designed in the popular Art Nouveau style. It features crests of countries and institutions that played important roles in White's life. For example, the adjacent picture shows the crests of the two countries where White was an ambassador; the coat of arms of Imperial Germany is on left and Saint George, a variation on the coat of arms of Moscow, representing Russia, is on the right. The sarcophagus was completed in 1926 by sculptor Lee Oskar Lawrie (1877–1963), who also created sculptures adorning Myron Taylor Hall at Cornell. Lawrie is perhaps best known for his Atlas statue at Rockefeller Center in New York City.[41] In his will, White left $500,000 ($10.5 million in 2024) to Cornell University, in addition to the considerable sums donated to the institution earlier in his life. Cornell University In his 1904 autobiography, The Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White, White wrote: During my life, which is now extending beyond the allotted span of threescore and ten, I have been engaged after the manner of my countrymen, in many sorts of work, have become interested in many conditions of men have joined in many efforts which I hope have been of use; but, most of all, I have been interested in the founding and maintaining of Cornell University, and by the part, I have taken in that, more than by any other work of my life I hope to be judged. — Andrew Dickson White, The Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White (1904) Until at least the mid-20th century, Cornell undergraduates with the surname 'White' were traditionally given the nickname 'Andy' in reference to White. Notably, E. B. White, author of the world-famous children's book Charlotte's Web, continued to go by the nickname 'Andy' for the rest of his life after his undergraduate years at Cornell.[42] Remove ads Legacy and honors Historian Benjamin G, Rader argues that in creating Cornell: White championed nondenominationalism, coeducation, an elective curriculum, and academic freedom. These positions won him a lasting reputation as a pioneer in the history of higher education.[43] According to professor Geoffrey Blodgett, White confronted a series of complex challenges in his long career: Above all, the creation from scratch of a large, high-quality, coeducational, nonsectarian public university in the cockpit of post-Civil War, educational politics was an organizational chore of awesome subtlety for man of White's genteel background and soaring ideals."[44] Degrees received by Andrew Dickson White White was awarded numerous honorary degrees, including: - University of Michigan, LL.D. (1867) - Cornell University, LL.D. (1886) - Yale University, LL.D. (1887) - Columbia University, L.H.D. (1887) - University of Jena, Ph.D. (1889) - St. Andrew's University, LL.D. (October 1902)[45] - Johns Hopkins University, LL.D. (1902) - University of Oxford, D.C.L. in connection with the Bodleian Library tercentenary (October 1902)[46] - Dartmouth College, LL.D. (1906) Remove ads Gallery - 1878 - 1881 - 1882 - Seated right of center with the Cornell faculty - 1885 - Seen sitting on the far right with the founding members of the American Historical Association - 1896 - Featured in Popular Science Monthly - In Berlin, 1900 - C.1905 - Gelatin silver photograph of White - An undated signature of White - c. about 1905 - Gelatin silver print cabinet card photo and undated signature of Andrew D. White. Possible original photo that was used in the original Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White book - 1906 - White and Goldwin Smith at the opening of Goldwin Smith Hall. A statue of White was later installed in front of the building. - An autographed copy of Autobiography of Andrew D. White Volume 1, dated June 23, 1916 - White, 1910 - 1915 - Featured in The New York Times - An undated photograph of White, published c.1918 in the Cornell Alumni Magazine after his death - c. about 1915 - Standing near his statue on the Cornell campus - The statue of White on the Cornell Arts Quad by Karl Bitter Remove ads Ancestry Selected bibliography - Outlines of a Course of Lectures on History (1861). - Syllabus of Lectures on Modern History (1876). - Fiat Money Inflation in France: How It Came, What It Brought, and How It Ended; To Which is Added an Extract from Macaulay Showing the Results of the Tempering with the Currency of England. New York: D. Appleton and Company. 1896. Retrieved May 18, 2024 – via Internet Archive. - A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom, 2 vols. (1896), online at Gutenberg text file. - Seven Great Statesmen in the Warfare of Humanity with Unreason (1910). - The Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White (1911), online at Autobiography of Andrew Dickson White: Vol. 1, Vol. 2 - Fiat Money Inflation in France: How It Came, What It Brought, and How It Ended 3rd Edition, Libertarian Press (PDF) (3rd ed.). New York: D. Appleton and Company. 1933 – via mises.org. , e-text Remove ads See also References Further reading External links Wikiwand - on Seamless Wikipedia browsing. On steroids. Remove ads


--- [Andrew Dickson White Facts for Kids] ---
Andrew Dickson White facts for kids Quick facts for kids Andrew Dickson White | | |---|---| | White in 1885 | | | 1st President of Cornell University | | | In office 1866–1885 | | | Succeeded by | Charles Kendall Adams | | 16th United States Ambassador to Germany | | | In office June 19, 1879 – August 15, 1881 | | | Preceded by | Bayard Taylor | | Succeeded by | Aaron Augustus Sargent | | 1st President of the American Historical Association | | | In office 1884–1885 | | | Preceded by | None | | Succeeded by | George Bancroft | | 41st United States Ambassador to Russia | | | In office July 22, 1892 – October 1, 1894 | | | Preceded by | Charles Emory Smith | | Succeeded by | Clifton R. Breckinridge | | 24th United States Ambassador to Germany | | | In office June 12, 1897 – November 27, 1902 | | | Preceded by | Edwin F. Uhl | | Succeeded by | Charlemagne Tower Jr. | | Member of the New York Senate from the 22nd district | | | In office 1864–1867 | | | Preceded by | Allen Munroe | | Succeeded by | George N. Kennedy | | Personal details | | | Born | Homer, New York, U.S. | November 7, 1832 | Died | November 4, 1918 Andrew Dickson White House, Ithaca, New York, U.S. | (aged 85) | Resting place | Sage Chapel, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, U.S. 42°26′50″N 76°29′05″W / 42.447307°N 76.484592°W | | Nationality | American | | Political party | Republican | | Height | 5 ft, 5 in | | Spouses | Mary A. Outwater (m. 1859; died 1887)Helen Magill (m. 1890–1918) | | Residence | Andrew Dickson White House | | Alma mater | Yale College (A.B. in 1853 and M.A in 1856) | | Signature | | | Scientific career | | | Institutions | | | Notable students | David Starr Jordan | Andrew Dickson White (born November 7, 1832 – died November 4, 1918) was an American historian and educator. He is best known for helping to create Cornell University. He also served as its first president for almost 20 years. White worked to make college classes cover more subjects. He was also a politician, serving as a state senator in New York. Later, he became an American diplomat (a person who represents their country) to Germany and Russia. He also helped develop the idea called the "conflict thesis." This idea suggests that science and religion have often been in conflict throughout history. He wrote a long book about this topic. Contents Andrew Dickson White's Early Life and School Andrew Dickson White was born on November 7, 1832, in Homer, New York. His parents were Clara and Horace White. His father, Horace, became a rich businessman even though his family had faced hard times. In 1839, Horace opened a bank in Syracuse. Andrew and his brother were baptized at a church in Homer. One of Andrew's cousins, Edwin White, became a famous artist. His nephew, Horace White, later became the governor of New York. College Days In 1849, White started college at Geneva College, which is now called Hobart and William Smith Colleges. He felt that this small school was not the right fit for him. In 1850, he left Geneva College. After some discussion with his father, White transferred to Yale College. At Yale, he became good friends with Daniel Coit Gilman. Gilman later became the first president of Johns Hopkins University. They were both part of a secret society called Skull and Bones. They even traveled together in Europe after they graduated. White was very active at Yale. He joined several clubs and societies. He was an editor for the fraternity's newspaper, The Tomahawk. He also edited the Yale Literary Magazine. White won several awards for his writing and public speaking. He even competed on the Yale crew team. Studying in Europe After graduating from Yale in 1853, White traveled and studied in Europe. He went to famous universities in Paris and Berlin. He also worked as a translator for the U.S. Ambassador to Russia. When he returned to the United States, White continued his studies at Yale. He earned a Master of Arts degree in History in 1856. Andrew Dickson White's Career Working in Academia In 1858, White became a professor of History and English literature at the University of Michigan. He taught there until 1863. He helped improve the university grounds by having students plant trees. From 1862 to 1863, he went to Europe. He tried to convince France and Britain to support the United States during the American Civil War. He wanted them to avoid helping the Confederate States. Creating Cornell University In 1863, White returned to Syracuse. He was elected to the New York State Senate. There, he met another senator, Ezra Cornell. Ezra Cornell was a farmer who had become wealthy in the telegraph business. Senators were deciding how to use money from a new law called the Morrill Land-Grant Colleges Act. This law gave land to states to help fund colleges. White strongly believed the money should go to one strong university, not many small ones. Ezra Cornell agreed. He offered to donate a large sum of his own money to create a new university. White suggested that the university be named after Ezra Cornell. On February 7, 1865, White introduced a bill to create "the Cornell University." The bill was signed into law on April 27, 1865. This officially created Cornell University as New York's land-grant institution. White became the first president of Cornell University. He also taught history there. He hired William Henry Miller, one of Cornell's first architecture students, to design his home on campus. In 1891, White was asked to be the first president of Stanford University. He turned down the offer but suggested his former student, David Starr Jordan, for the role. The Conflict Thesis Idea When Cornell University was founded, White wanted it to be a place for Science. He believed that truth should be sought for its own sake, not just to fit religious beliefs. At that time, many American universities were religious schools. In 1869, White gave a speech called "The Battle-Fields of Science." He argued that history showed problems when religion tried to stop scientific progress. Over the next 30 years, he studied this idea more deeply. He wrote a two-volume book called A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom (1896). In this book, he presented his "conflict thesis." This idea claimed that science and strict religious beliefs were often at war. While his book was very important in the 19th century, most modern historians of science do not fully agree with the "conflict thesis" today. Working as a Diplomat While he was president of Cornell, White also served as a Commissioner to Santo Domingo in 1871. President Ulysses Grant asked him to see if the United States could take over the Dominican Republic. Their report supported the idea, but it did not happen. Later, White became the American ambassador to Germany (1879–1881). After returning home, he was chosen as the first president of the American Historical Association (1884–1886). After he stopped being Cornell's president in 1885, White continued his diplomatic work. He served as the minister to Russia (1892–1894). He was also president of the American group at The Hague Peace Conference in 1899. He then served again as ambassador to Germany (1897–1902). In 1904, White published his Autobiography. He wrote it while relaxing in Italy after retiring. His Love for Books Throughout his life, White collected many books. He had a very large collection about architecture, which was the biggest in the United States at the time. He gave all 4,000 of these books to the Cornell University Library. He also donated the rest of his 30,000-book collection to the library. In 1879, White asked George Lincoln Burr to manage his rare book collection. Burr traveled around Europe to find and collect books that White wanted. He built important collections on the Reformation, witchcraft, and the French Revolution. Today, White's collection is kept at the Cornell Archives. Many books are also in the Andrew Dickson White Reading Room at Uris Library. This reading room was designed by William Henry Miller, who also designed White's home. While in Russia, White met the famous author Leo Tolstoy. Tolstoy was interested in Mormonism, which made White curious too. White had thought of the Latter-Day Saints (LDS) as a dangerous group before. When he returned to the U.S., he collected many items related to Mormonism. His collection is one of the best outside of the church itself. Andrew Dickson White's Personal Life White was married two times. His first marriage was to Mary Amanda Outwater in 1857. They had three children: Frederick Davies White, Clara (White) Newbury, and Ruth (White) Ferry. Mary died in 1887. In 1890, White married Helen Magill. Helen was the first woman in the United States to earn a Ph.D. She was also a social scientist and educator. They met at a conference. Together, Helen and Andrew had three children: Edward Magill White, Hilda White, and Karin Andreevna White. Death and What He Left Behind Andrew Dickson White passed away on November 4, 1918, at his home in Ithaca. Three days later, on what would have been his 86th birthday, he was buried at Sage Chapel on the Cornell campus. The chapel was full of people who wanted to honor him. White's body rests in a special stone coffin called a sarcophagus in the Memorial Room. Other important people from Cornell's early days, like co-founder Ezra Cornell, are also buried there. White's sarcophagus was designed in the Art Nouveau style. It shows symbols from countries where he was an ambassador and universities where he studied. The sculptor Lee Oskar Lawrie finished the sarcophagus in 1926. Lawrie also created the famous Atlas statue in New York City. In his will, White left $500,000 to Cornell University. He had already given a lot of money to Cornell during his life. His Impact on Cornell University In his 1904 autobiography, Andrew Dickson White wrote about his life's work: Most of all, I have been interested in the founding and maintaining of Cornell University, and by the part, I have taken in that, more than by any other work of my life I hope to be judged. For many years, Cornell students named 'White' were often called 'Andy' in honor of Andrew Dickson White. A famous example is E. B. White, the author of Charlotte's Web, who was known as 'Andy' after his time at Cornell. Honors and Awards White received many honorary degrees from different universities, including: - University of Michigan, Doctor of Law (1867) - Cornell University, Doctor of Law (1886) - Yale University, Doctor of Law (1887) - Columbia University, Doctor of Humane Letters (1887) - University of Jena, Doctor of Philosophy (1889) - St. Andrew's University, Doctor of Law (1902) - Johns Hopkins University, Doctor of Law (1902) - University of Oxford, Doctor of Civil Law (1902) - Dartmouth College, Doctor of Law (1906) Gallery - 1915 - Featured in The New York Times - The statue of White on the Cornell Arts Quad by Karl Bitter See also In Spanish: Andrew Dickson White para niños - Andrew Dickson White House


--- [Andrew Dickson White Explained] ---
No content
