=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[George Melly - Wikipedia]
Melly was President of the BHA 1972-4, and was also an Honorary Associate of the Rationalist Association. He was also a member of the Max Miller Appreciation Society and, on 1 May 2005, joined Roy Hudd, Norman Wisdom, and others to unveil a statue of Miller in Brighton. [10]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Melly

[Max Miller Statue - Royal Pavilion Gardens | Brighton]
The unveiling of the statue took place in New Road, opposite the Theatre Royal at 11:30 am by Sir Norman, Roy Hudd, June Whitfield, George Melly, the Mayor of Brighton & Hove Pat Drake and MMAS's very own Jo Blake.
URL: https://www.royalpaviliongardens.co.uk/max-miller-statue

[27 Facts About George Melly - FactSnippet]
9. George Melly was a member of the Max Miller Appreciation Society and, on 1 May 2005, joined Roy Hudd, Norman Wisdom, and others to unveil a statue of Miller in Brighton. 10. George Melly's singing style, in particular for the blues, was strongly influenced by his idol, Bessie Smith. 11.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-george-melly.html

[queerplaces - George Melly - Elisa Rolle]
Melly was President of the BHA 1972-4, and was also an Honorary Associate of the Rationalist Association. He was also a member of the Max Miller Appreciation Society and, on 1 May 2005, joined Roy Hudd, Norman Wisdom, and others in unveiling a statue of Miller in Brighton. [10]
URL: http://www.elisarolle.com/queerplaces/fghij/George%20Melly.html

[LEGACY - Max Miller]
A bronze statue sculptured by Peter Webster was unveiled on 1 May 2005 by Roy Hudd, George Melly, June Whitfield and Norman Wisdom on 1 May 2005 (re-sited August 2007) in the Pavilion Gardens, New Road, Brighton.
URL: https://www.maxmiller.org/legacy


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [George Melly - Wikipedia] ---
Alan George Heywood Melly (17 August 1926 – 5 July 2007) was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer, and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973, he was a film and television critic for The Observer; he also lectured on art history, with an emphasis on surrealism.


--- [Max Miller Statue - Royal Pavilion Gardens | Brighton] ---
Max Miller Statue Act 1 UNVEILING 1st MAY 2005 THE UNVEILING ~ MAX DAY Comic Legend, Sir Norman Wisdom, was in Brighton on Sunday, May 1 (MAX DAY) 2005, to participate in the unveiling of a bronze, life-sized statue of the City’s own ‘Cheeky Chappie’ – comedian MAX MILLER. Announcing this to members, the President of the Max Miller Appreciation Society, Roy Hudd OBE, said: “I’m tickled pink ! One great comic to do the business for a previous one !” The unveiling of the statue took place in New Road, opposite the Theatre Royal at 11:30 am by Sir Norman, Roy Hudd, June Whitfield, George Melly, the Mayor of Brighton & Hove Pat Drake and MMAS's very own Jo Blake. After the unveiling, Roy Hudd, OBE, President of the Max Miller Appreciation Society, hosted a celebration luncheon in the Brighton Corn Exchange. Many well-known names were present including Sir Norman Wisdom, June Whitfield, George Melly, Dora Bryan, Geoffrey Hughes, Judy Cornwall, Christopher Green, Terry Garoghan, Victor Seaforth, Wyn Calvin, Sheila Matthews, John Bardon, scriptwriters David Renwick (One Foot in the Grave), Jimmy Perry (Dad's Army, Hi-Di-Hi), Sir Peter Blake, John Fisher, stars of Coronation Street and EastEnders and numerous local celebrities. Sir Norman sang his signature tune "Don't Laugh at Me 'Cos I'm a Fool" and the many celebrities reminisced about Max. All this is captured on the DVD of the ceremony and luncheon. Click on this Link to find out more: Act 2 MAX IS BACK MAXTRAVAGANZA ~ SUNDAY, 12th AUGUST 2007 On 12th August 2007 the statue was unveiled in its new position by Ken Dodd, assisted by Dennis Norden, Michael Aspel and the Mayor of Brighton & Hove Cllr. Carol Theobald. In 2006 the Max Miller Statue was removed from New Road and put into storage for safe keeping whilst pedestrianisation of New Road proceeded. On completion of these roadworks, Max returned, this time to a new and better position in the Royal Pavilion Gardens, New Road opposite the Theatre Royal. He will be in the midst of buttercups and daisies pointing to a site which was once the Oxford Music Hall. Max's return was celebrated by a Maxtravaganza, second unveiling/ rededication ceremony on Sunday, 12th August at 3pm. After the ceremony, celebrities, members and guests adjourned for tea, cakes and nibbles in the Max enclosure in the Pavilion Cafe grounds. Final Act LET THERE BE LIGHT AL MURRAY, THE PUB LANDLORD LIGHTS UP THE STATUE At last the statue is illuminated. On Monday, 30th May, 2011, Al Murray, pushed the button to light up the statue. He entertained the large crowd telling them what a great fan he is of Max and reciting Max's, "When roses are red...".


--- [27 Facts About George Melly - FactSnippet] ---
Alan George Heywood Melly was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer, and lecturer. 27 Facts About George Melly George Melly was a relative of the philanthropist Emma Holt, of Sudley House Liverpool; her mother had married Melly's great-grandfather. George Melly joined the Royal Navy at the end of the Second World War because, as he quipped to the recruiting officer, the uniforms were "so much nicer". George Melly retired from jazz in 1962 when he became a film critic for The Observer George Melly was scriptwriter on the 1967 satirical film Smashing Time. George Melly returned to jazz in the early 1970s with John Chilton's Feetwarmers, a partnership that ended in 2003. George Melly released six albums in the 1970s including Nuts in 1972 and Son of Nuts the next year. George Melly wrote a light column, Mellymobile, in Punch magazine describing their tours. George Melly was an Honorary Associate of the National Secular Society and a Distinguished Supporter of the British Humanist Association. George Melly was a member of the Max Miller Appreciation Society and, on 1 May 2005, joined Roy Hudd, Norman Wisdom, and others to unveil a statue of Miller in Brighton. George Melly's singing style, in particular for the blues, was strongly influenced by his idol, Bessie Smith. George Melly recorded a track called "Old Codger" with The Stranglers in 1978, for which the lyrics were especially written for him by then band member, Hugh Cornwell. George Melly, who was bisexual, moved from strictly homosexual relationships in his teens and twenties to largely heterosexual relationships from his thirties onwards. George Melly married twice and had a child from each marriage, though his first child Pandora was not known to be his until she was much older. George Melly married his second wife, Diana Moynihan, in 1963 and they lived on Gloucester Crescent in Camden Town. George Melly brought with her two children from two previous marriages. George and Diana Melly had a country retreat, Scethrog Tower in the Brecon Beacons, between 1971 and 1999. George Melly was the first musician to be contracted for the opening festival and remained a supporter until his death. George Melly was a factor in the festival's success and served as its president in 1991. George Melly was still active in music, journalism, and lecturing on surrealism and other aspects of modern art until his death, despite worsening health problems such as vascular dementia, incipient emphysema, and lung cancer. George Melly suffered from environmental hearing loss because of long-term exposure to stage sound systems, and his hearing in both ears became increasingly poor. George Melly often equated his dementia to a quite amusing LSD trip, and took a lot of pleasure from his deafness, which he said made many boring conversations more interesting. On Sunday 10 June 2007, George Melly made an appearance, announced as his last ever performance, at the 100 Club in London. George Melly died at his London home of lung cancer and emphysema, aged 80, on 5 July 2007. On 17 February 2008 BBC Two broadcast George Melly's Last Stand, an intimate portrayal of Melly's last months. George Melly's sister Andree Melly was an actress, who lived in Ibiza with her husband, Oscar Quitak. In 2018 writer, musician and film maker Chris Wade made a documentary about George Melly entitled The Certainty of Hazard, featuring his wife Diana, son Tom, and various friends and associates. Diana George Melly died on 2 February 2025, at the age of 87.


--- [queerplaces - George Melly - Elisa Rolle] ---
Queer Places: The Grange, 12 Fulwood Park, Liverpool L17 5AH, UK 55 Gloucester Cres, London NW1 7EG, UK The Tower, Scethrog, Brecon LD3 7YE, UK Kensal Green Cemetery Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, Greater London, England Alan George Heywood Melly (17 August 1926 – 5 July 2007) was an English jazz and blues singer, critic, writer and lecturer. From 1965 to 1973 he was a film and television critic for The Observer; he also lectured on art history, with an emphasis on surrealism. The Navy has had an enduring reputation for same-sex liaisons or, as George Melly described it, ‘rum, bum and concertina’. This is the title he gave to his entertaining and bestselling autobiography, first published in 1977. Melly joined the Royal Navy towards the end of the war, when he was just 18. He informed the recruiting officer that he was drawn to the uniforms because they were ‘so much nicer’ than the Army and RAF. Melly was born at The Grange, St Michael's Hamlet, Toxteth, Liverpool, Lancashire, the elder son and eldest of three children of wool broker Francis Heywood Melly and Edith Maud Isaac.[1] His mother was Jewish.[2] Melly was a descendant of the shipowner and Liberal MP George Melly.[3] He was also a relative of the philanthropist Emma Holt, of Sudley House Liverpool; her sister had married Melly's great-grandfather.[4] Melly was educated at Stowe School, Buckinghamshire where he discovered his interest in modern art, jazz and blues and started coming to terms with his sexuality. Melly was an atheist. Interviewed by Nigel Farndale in 2005, Melly said "I don't understand people panicking about death. It's inevitable. I'm an atheist; you'd think it would make it worse, but it doesn't. I've done quite a lot in the world, not necessarily of great significance, but I have done it."[5] Melly once stated that he may have been drawn to surrealism by a particular experience he had during his teenage years. A frequent visitor to Liverpool's Sefton Park near his home, he often entered its tropical Palm House and there chatted to wounded soldiers from a nearby military hospital. It was the incongruity of this sight, men smoking among the exotic plants, dressed in their hospital uniforms and usually missing a limb, that he felt he later recognised in the work of the Surrealists. He joined the Royal Navy at the end of the Second World War. As he related in his autobiography Rum, Bum and Concertina, he was crestfallen to discover that he would not be sent to a ship and was thus denied the "bell-bottom" uniform he desired.[6] Instead he received desk duty and wore the other Navy uniform, described as "the dreaded fore-and-aft". Later, however, he did go to sea but never saw action; he was almost court-martialled for distributing anarchist literature.[7] After the war, Melly found work in a London surrealist gallery, working with E. L. T. Mesens and eventually drifted into the world of jazz, finding work with Mick Mulligan's Magnolia Jazz Band. This was a time (1948 onwards) when New Orleans and "New Orleans Revival" style jazz were very popular in Britain. In January 1963, the British music magazine NME reported that the biggest trad jazz event to be staged in Britain had taken place at Alexandra Palace. The event included Alex Welsh, Diz Disley, Acker Bilk, Chris Barber, Kenny Ball, Ken Colyer, Monty Sunshine, Bob Wallis, Bruce Turner, Mick Mulligan and Melly.[8] In 1956 he became a writer on the Daily Mail's satirical newspaper strip Flook, illustrated by Trog. He continued this until 1971. He retired from jazz in 1962 when he became a film critic for The Observer. He was also scriptwriter on the 1967 satirical film Smashing Time. The period from 1948 until 1963 is described in Owning Up. He returned to jazz in the early 1970s with John Chilton's Feetwarmers, a partnership that ended in 2003. He later sang with Digby Fairweather's band. He released six albums in the 1970s including Nuts in 1972 and Son of Nuts the next year.[9] He wrote a light column, Mellymobile, in Punch magazine describing their tours. He was an Honorary Associate of the National Secular Society and a Distinguished Supporter of the British Humanist Association. Melly was President of the BHA 1972–4, and was also an Honorary Associate of the Rationalist Association. He was also a member of the Max Miller Appreciation Society and, on 1 May 2005, joined Roy Hudd, Norman Wisdom, and others in unveiling a statue of Miller in Brighton.[10] His singing style, particularly for the blues, was strongly influenced by his idol, Bessie Smith. While many British musicians of the time treated jazz and blues with almost religious solemnity, Melly rejoiced in their more bawdy side, and this was reflected in his choice of songs and exuberant stage performances. He recorded a track called "Old Codger" with The Stranglers in 1978, for which the lyrics were especially written for him by then band member, Hugh Cornwell.[11] Melly, who was bisexual, moved from strictly homosexual relationships in his teens and twenties to largely heterosexual relationships from his thirties onwards.[12] He married twice and had a child from each marriage, though his first child Pandora was not known to be his until she was much older. He married his second wife, Diana Dawson Moynihan, in 1963[13] and they lived on Gloucester Crescent in Camden Town. She brought with her two children (Candy and Patrick) from two previous marriages. Patrick died from a heroin overdose in his twenties. Their own son, Tom, was born two days after the wedding. Diana published an autobiography in 2005 of their life and (open) marriage together. George and Diana Melly had a country retreat, the Tower, at Scethrog in the Brecon Beacons, between 1971 and 1999. This was somewhere Melly could escape the jazz world and indulge his love of fishing on the River Usk. Jazz followed him to Wales and this led to a series of celebrated performances in the area and in the South Wales valleys. In 1984 the Brecon Jazz Festival was conceived by a group of jazz enthusiasts who gained widespread support from the local community. Melly was the first musician to be contracted for the opening festival and remained a supporter until his death. He was a factor in the festival's success and served as its President in 1991. As well as being the President of the Contemporary Arts Society for Wales, Melly was a contemporary art collector. His passion for surrealist art continued throughout his life and he lectured and wrote extensively on the subject. His passion for fly-fishing never dwindled and in later life he sold several important paintings (by Magritte and Picasso) to enable him to buy a mile of the River Usk. In 2000 he published Hooked!, a book on fly-fishing. Melly was still active in music, journalism, and lecturing on surrealism and other aspects of modern art until his death, despite worsening health problems such as vascular dementia,[14] incipient emphysema, and lung cancer.[15] His encouragement and support to gallery owner Michael Budd led to a posthumous exhibition for the modern abstract artist François Lanzi.[16] Melly suffered from environmental hearing loss because of long-term exposure to stage sound systems, and his hearing in both ears became increasingly poor. Despite these problems, Melly would often joke that he found some parts of his ailing health to be enjoyable. He often equated his dementia to a quite amusing LSD trip, and took a lot of pleasure from his deafness, which he said made many boring conversations more interesting. On Sunday 10 June 2007, Melly made an appearance, announced as his last ever performance, at the 100 Club in London. This was on the occasion of a fund-raising event to benefit the charity supporting his carers. He died at his London home of lung cancer and emphysema (which he had for the last two years of his life), aged 80, on 5 July 2007.[13] His humanist funeral was held at the West London Crematorium, in Kensal Green. The hearse was led by a jazz band, including Kenny Ball on trumpet, playing a New Orleans funeral march. His cardboard coffin was covered with old snapshots and cartoons of Melly by his friends, as well as hand-drawn decorations.[17] On 17 February 2008 BBC Two broadcast George Melly's Last Stand (produced by Walker George Films), an intimate portrayal of Melly's last months. His sister Andrée Melly was an actress, who lived in Ibiza with her husband, Oscar Quitak.[18] In 2018 writer, musician and film maker Chris Wade made a documentary about Melly entitled The Certainty of Hazard, featuring his wife Diana, son Tom and various friends and associates.[19] My published books:


--- [LEGACY - Max Miller] ---
Max's Legacy There'll Never Be Another! Max Miller died in Brighton on May 7th 1963 but his contribution to the variety stage and comedy lives on. Books The biography, Max Miller the Cheeky Chappie by John M. East was published in 1977. A paperback version was issued in 1993 with additional material. (East, John M. (1977), Max Miller the Cheeky Chappie, London, W H Allen, ISBN 0491-02260-3) Paperbacks containing Miller's jokes have been published: The Max Miller Blue Book compiled by Barry Took and illustrated by cartoonist Trog (1975)The Max Miller Appreciation Society's Blue Book compiled by members with a foreword by Roy Hudd (2001).Max Miller’s New Blue Book revised edition of The Max Miller Appreciation Society’s Blue Book with contributions from Roy Hudd, Michael Aspel and Ken Dodd (2011). TV Documentaries These were made after his death and include interviews with his wife, friends and fellow artists. Probably the best of the documentaries is the one made by Gerald Scarfe I Like the Girls Who Do. Applause! Applause! Thames TV, 10-Apr-69. Bygones - The Cheeky Chappie, Anglia TV, 19-Jan-79 To view programme, click on BYGONES 40 Minutes - I Like the Girls Who Do - written and presented by Gerald Scarfe, BBC2 TV, 16-Feb-89. To view click on 40 MINUTES Heroes of Comedy - written and produced by John Fisher Thames Television for Channel 4, 27-Oct-95. To view, click on: HEROES The Pier - Remembering Max Miller Meridian TV, 11-Jul-99. A Home for Max Jointly produced by Latest TV Brighton and MMAS 16 October 2022 Plays Here's a Funny Thing by R.W. Shakespeare, a tribute to the comedian. Max's story is told as a part of his act, weaving biographical details amongst the gags and songs starring John Bardon as Max and Clare Kelly as his pianist; First performed in the Liverpool Playhouse followed by the Edinburgh Fringe, it ran at the Fortune Theatre, London from January 1982 and was filmed for Channel 4 TV for showing on 20 November 1982 To view, click on: A FUNNY THING The Cheeky Chappie a play by David Simpson about Max's juxtaposed working and personal life. First performed at the Library Theatre, Manchester in 1986 and in 1987 at the Queen's Theatre, Hornchurch. It was broadcast by BBC Radio 4 on 11 February, 1989 with Joe Melia as Max and Barbara Marten as his secretary. It was revived at the Union Theatre, London in 2004 with Jamie Kenna in the lead. And revived a second time for the Brighton Fringe in 25-29 April and 3-6 May, 2012 at the Marlborough Theatre, Brighton and on 24 June, 2012 at the Art's Theatre, London with Jamie Kenna in the lead and Sarah Moyle as Max's secretary. Casting Shadows by Mark Burgess produced by the Brighton Revue Company for the Queens Head Theatre, Brighton on 13-30 October 1999. The play set in August 1962 is about a "meeting" between Max, Sir Laurence Olivier and Terence Rattigan, all of whom lived in Kemptown at that time. Later it was broadcast by BBC Radio 4 with Roy Hudd playing the part of Max. Maxie - The Max Miller Story, the life and times of Brighton's own Cheeky Chappie written by Les Hull and produced by the Vanguard Theatre Company at the Pavilion Theatre, Brighton on 3-5 July, 2008 starring Nelson E Ward as Max and Amaryllis Crooke as Kathleen Miller.. John Bardon as Max Miller Memorials A bronze statue sculptured by Peter Webster was unveiled on 1 May 2005 by Roy Hudd, George Melly, June Whitfield and Norman Wisdom on 1 May 2005 (re-sited August 2007) in the Pavilion Gardens, New Road, Brighton. Blue commemorative plaques have been erected on three of Max’s former homes. ● 25, Burlington Street, Brighton (1986) ● Ashcroft, Kingston Lane, Shoreham-by-Sea (2000) - photo below showing Bill Pertwee and Ken Dodd unveiling plaque ● 160 Marine Parade, Kemptown, Brighton. (2006) - photo below showing Roy Hudd and Michael Aspel unveiling plaque. A carved paving stone on the Walk of Fame in the Brighton Marina includes Max with over 100 paving stones of other celebrities with Brighton connections (1999). The Memorial Tablet on a wall of the Downs Crematorium, Brighton. The Max Miller Walk on the Madeira Terrace in Kemptown, Brighton was officially acknowledged by the unveiling of a street sign in May, 2012. Max on Sgt. Pepper's Album Cover The Beatles' 1967 album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band has a widely recognized album cover that depicts several dozen celebrities and other images. The image was made by posing the Beatles in front of life-sized, black-and-white photographs pasted onto hardboard and hand tinted.[1] It was created by Jann Haworth and Peter Blake, who in 1967 won the Grammy Award for Best Album Cover, Graphic Arts for their work on it.[2] Blake has said that the intention was to show a new band surrounded by fans after a performance. Sir Peter Blake CBE RDI RA is an avid collector of Max Miller memorabilia and is a life member of the Max Miller Appreciation Society. Click on image to find Max. Clue: left near top Max Miller Bus Brighton & Hove Bus Company 819 Dennis Trident convertible open topper - carried name since delivery in May 1999, changed to Micky Adams + Bobby Zamora during May 2001 then back to Max Miller, repainted in the new livery from November 2004. Repainted in allover red in April 2008 for City Sightseeing Tours. Max Miller moved to bus 808 July 2009 then on to bus 919 a Scania N94UD OmniDekka in February 2015. "That's nice Maxie"
