=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Maulana Azad - Wikipedia]
Azad was born on 11 November 1888 in Mecca, then a part of the Ottoman Empire, now a part of Saudi Arabia. His real name was Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin, but he eventually became known as Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. [6] Azad's forefathers had come to India from Herat. His father was a Muslim scholar who lived in Delhi with his maternal grandfather, as his father had died at a very young age. [7 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maulana_Azad

[Wolpert's works - greaterkashmir.com]
Mar 24, 2019 · The League had accused Azad of allowing Muslims to be culturally dominated by the Hindu majority and Jinnah described him as “Congress Show Boy” and “Muslim Lord Haw-Haw”. ‘Lord Haw-Haw ...
URL: https://www.greaterkashmir.com/opinion/wolperts-works/

[National Education Day 2025: Maulana Azad’s Legacy]
November 11 marks the birth anniversary of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad in India. The day commemorates the nations first Minister of Education. Azad was a freedom fighter and a visionary reformer who believed that true independence could only be achieved through educ...
URL: https://www.jagranjosh.com/general-knowledge/national-education-day-2025-maulana-azad-legacy-1820003972-1

[Maulana Abul Kalam Azad - His Passion For Freedom and ...]
Nov 16, 2011 — He had grown increasingly hostile to Jinnah, who had described him as the “Muslim Lord Haw-Haw" and a "Congress Show boy."Despite being a ...
URL: https://www.newageislam.com/islamic-personalities/asghar-ali-engineer/maulana-abul-kalam-azad-his-passion-freedom-communal-harmony/d/5930

[Maulana Azad loses place in NCERT textbook - The Siasat Daily]
Apr 13, 2023 — Despite growing hostility from Jinnah, who described him as the “Muslim Lord Haw-Haw” and a “Congress Showboy,” Azad remained committed to Hindu ...
URL: https://www.siasat.com/maulana-azad-loses-place-in-ncert-textbook-2567643/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Maulana Azad - Wikipedia] ---
Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin (11 November 1888 – 22 February 1958), better known as Maulana Azad and sometimes referred to as Abul Kalam Azad, was an Indian writer, activist of the Indian independence movement and statesman. A senior leader of the Indian National Congress, following India's independence, he became the first Minister of Education in the Indian government. His contribution to establishing the education foundation in India is recognised by celebrating his birthday as National Education Day across India.
As a young man, Azad composed poetry in Urdu, as well as treatises on religion and philosophy. He rose to prominence through his work as a journalist, publishing works critical of the British Raj and espousing the causes of Indian nationalism. Azad became the leader of the Khilafat Movement, during which he came into close contact with the Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi. After the failure of the Khilafat Movement, he became closer to the Congress. Azad became an enthusiastic supporter of Gandhi's ideas of non-violent civil disobedience, and worked to organise the non-co-operation movement in protest of the 1919 Rowlatt Acts. Azad committed himself to Gandhi's ideals, including promoting Swadeshi (indigenous) products and the cause of Swaraj (Self-rule) for India. In 1923, at an age of 35, he became the youngest person to serve as the President of the Indian National Congress.
In October 1920, Azad was elected as a member of foundation committee to establish Jamia Millia Islamia at Aligarh in U. P. without taking help from British colonial government. He assisted in shifting the campus of the university from Aligarh to New Delhi in 1934. The main gate (Gate No. 7) to the main campus of the university is named after him.
Azad was one of the main organizers of the Dharasana Satyagraha in 1931, and emerged as one of the most important national leaders of the time, prominently leading the causes of Hindu–Muslim unity as well as espousing secularism and socialism. He served as Congress president from 1940 to 1945, during which the Quit India rebellion was launched. Azad was imprisoned, together with the entire Congress leadership. He also worked for Hindu–Muslim unity through the Al-Hilal newspaper.




--- [Wolpert's works - greaterkashmir.com] ---
In our generation, perhaps rarely any of one might have read it or heard about it. In my small collection of biographies, there is a purple coloured hardbound, with pagesturned to smoke yellow biography published eighty-eight years back by George Allen and Unwin Limited, 40 Museum Street, London. It has a foreword by father of Indian Nation Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. The biography has been authored Mahadev Desai Gandhi’s James Boswell and personal secretary. Inside the cover of the book, there is a black and white picture of a man with a Van Dyck beard,dressed in black up-button long coat, a white pyjama, black astrakhan cap and shawl slinging on his shoulders. The picture is of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the man whose story is told by Desai in Queen’s English. dressed in black up-button long coat, a white pyjama, black astrakhan cap and shawl slinging on his shoulders. The picture is of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the man whose story is told by Desai in Queen’s English. In his eight lines forward to the biography praising Azad for his Islamic scholarship, Gandhi writes, “His nationalism is as robust as his faith in Islam. That he is today the supreme head of the Indian National Congress has the deep meaning which should not be lost of sight of by every student of Indian politics.’ The ‘deep meaning’ that Gandhi mention, in fact, sums up the political situation that obtained at that point of time in British India.Maulana Azad was elected as President of Indian National Congress in 1940- he stayed at this position for six years. Those were the times when the communal divide in India had deepened, and the idea of a separate nation for the Muslims of the sub-continent had concretized in the shape of March 23, 1940 resolution adopted by the Muslim League in the Minto Park Lahore. The election of Azad as president at this historical juncture was projected by the Congress as an answer to the West. The League had accused Azad of allowing Muslims to be culturally dominated by the Hindu majority and Jinnah described him as “Congress Show Boy” and “Muslim Lord Haw-Haw”. ‘Lord Haw-Haw was a nickname of William Joyce an American broadcaster who broadcasted Nazi propaganda to Britain from Germany in 1940.’ The phrases used by Jinnah against Azad had stuck to the name of President of the Indian National Congress. The objective behind writing Azad’s biography was to blunt the sway of Jinnah’s phrases and introduce Azad and pluralistic image of the Congress to the West. In his introduction to the biographyMahadev Desai writes, “For Western readers, who do not know Maulana Sahib at all, the work should have obvious value… He has no traces of ill will against British people. It is, therefore, necessary for Western readers, especially the British, to know something about him”. The purpose behind talking about this biography of archival value is to suggest that the memoirs were also authored for achieving the political objectives. In Kashmir also we had our share of biographies written with political purposes. In 1933, a year or less after the birth of the Muslim Conference, Pandit Prem Nath Bazaz wrote the biography of Sheikh Abdullah, who had just begun his political inning and titled it as “Kashmir Ka Gandhi”. In comparing him with Gandhi, Bazaz, of course, had a bigger game plan which unfolded almost six years after its publication. Nevertheless, it does not mean that all the biographies about the political leadership of the sub-continent were written for creating a halo of greatness around them orfor scoringsome points on a political rival or countering political discourses that ran parallel to each other.There have been biographers who candidly and honestly toldthe stories of the leaders that wrotethe destiny of hundreds of millions. The beauty of the top South-Asian leadership has been that they attracted internationally acclaimed historians to write their stories- one of them has been an American historian Stanley Wolpert.Because of his work on the Sub-Continent over a period of time he became a household name in political, academic and media circle. Stanley as his friends called him died on February 19,2019, at 91.In the din of the war cries that dominated the airwaves after the Lethipora blast the death of world-renowned historian of India and Pakistan was not reported in print or electronic media. It had been Gandhi, who had metamorphosed this marine engineering into a historian. On, February 12, 1948, this twenty-one-year-old engineer disembarked at Bombay port. Thirteen days earlier Gandhi had been assassinated, on this day urn of his ashes was emptied into holy waters of Indian rivers andBombay’s Back Bay. He had never before seen such emotionally charged crowds who out of devotion for the assassinated leader vied to touch the waters in which ashes were drowned. It was his first tryst with Indian History. “That early encounter with India,” wrote Stanley, “Changed the course of my life.” On his return to his country, he bade adieu to his career in marine engineering for the study of Indian history and got passionately involved in it. In 1959, he earned his PhD and his dissertation, published as Tilak and Gokhale, wasrecognized as “the best book on the history of India originally published in the United States.” Throughout his sixty yearscareeras a professor of history at the University of California, Los Angeles, SouthAsia, India, in particular, remained subject of his writings,and he wrote about two dozen books on the region. Besides, three books that reflect on the conflict between India and Pakistan, one of his most significant contribution has been biographies of Gandhi, Nehru, Jinnah and Z. A. Bhutto. Like a spider artfully weaving his web, Stanley has spunthe story of the father of Indian nation in his biography of him, ‘Gandhi’s Passion: The Life and Legacy of Mahatma Gandhi. From the piles of Gandhi’s writings, travel notes and reports of his meeting, archives he forthrightly maps his non-violent resistance against the British. He has subtly brought out certain aspects of Gandhi, which many of his biographers have chosen not to write about. Stanley believesthat ‘the truth about great men needs to beknown and discussed. I don’t see anything wrong with their having failings’. Hewrote about Nehru what no biographer in India would venture to mention about,so his biography of first Prime of India, “Nehru: A Tryst With Destiny,published by Oxford University Press, New York, despite being described as bestwas banned in India. ‘Jinnah of Pakistan’, by him is most quoted book aboutfounding the father of Pakistan. Three of his works, ‘India and Pakistan: Continued Conflict or Cooperation’?, ‘Roots of Confrontation in South Asia : Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and the Superpowers’ and Shameful Flight, The Last Years of British Empire in India are essential works for the students of contemporary Kashmir History. Last two chapter of Shameful Flight provide the genesis of the conflict and the ‘Roots of Confrontation in South Asia’, besidesgiving an insight into the history of the relationship between neighbours is a critique of US policy towards the region. To sum up, Stanley Wolpert is an important historian forstudents of South Asia.


--- [National Education Day 2025: Maulana Azad’s Legacy] ---
National Education Day 2025: Every year, November 11 marks the birth anniversary of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad in India. The day commemorates the nation’s first Minister of Education. Therefore, it is not just a tribute to one of India’s greatest visionaries but also a celebration of the nation’s enduring commitment to education as a tool for empowerment, equality, and progress. Let us explore more about why the day is so significant and inspires generations even today, through this blog. (Infographic: Celebrating National Education Day 2025: Honoring Maulana Abul Kalam Azad’s legacy and the 2025 theme, “Technology + Ethics = Future of Learning.) Who Was Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, and How Did He Shape Modern Indian Education? Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was a scholar who was born on November 11, 1888, in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. He was a freedom fighter and a visionary reformer who believed that true independence could only be achieved through education. He was deeply influenced by his exposure to Islamic philosophy and modern thought, and devoted his life to promoting knowledge, critical thinking, and social unity. - After India gained independence in 1947, he became the first Minister of Education, and served until 1958. - During this time, Azad laid the groundwork for India’s modern education system and envisioned a nation where learning would be accessible to all. This was irrespective of class, gender, or community. - His vision emphasized universal primary education, adult literacy, and technical training. - He believed that education should foster national development rather than rote literacy alone. Key Facts About Maulana Abul Kalam Azad and His Educational Legacy The key facts about Maulana Abul Kalam Azad are listed below: | Fact | Details | | Full Name | Maulana Sayyid Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin Ahmed Azad | | Birth | November 11, 1888 – Mecca, Saudi Arabia | | Role in Independent India | India’s first Minister of Education (1947–1958) | | Major Contributions | Established University Grants Commission (UGC), IITs, and Sahitya Akademi | | Vision | Universal education, women’s empowerment, and scientific learning | | Belief | Education as the foundation for democracy and equality | | Legacy Institution | Maulana Azad National Urdu University (named in his honor) | | Famous Quote | “Education imparted by heart can bring revolution in the society.” | | Commemoration | National Education Day celebrated every year on November 11 in his memory | What Is Maulana Abul Kalam Azad’s Most Famous Quote? His powerful words, “Education imparted by heart can bring revolution in the society,” continue to inspire educators and reformers across generations. Moreover, under his leadership, India witnessed the creation of several premier institutions that continue to define the country’s academic excellence. Let us quickly read below the reforms he made to foster a healthy eductaion system in India. Key Educational Reforms and Institutions Shaped by Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Azad’s contributions were not confined to ideology, as he built the foundations of the institutions that still define Indian education. Here are the reforms which still inspires generations: | Reforms/Initiatives | Impact on Modern Education | | Creation of the University Grants Commission (UGC) | Ensured coordinated development of higher education and set quality standards across universities. | | Founding of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) | Laid the groundwork for India’s global reputation in science and engineering education. | | Strengthening of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) | Advanced technical and vocational learning to meet industrial needs. | | Promotion of Adult Literacy and Primary Education | Paved the way for universal education and literacy missions post-independence. | | Establishment of Cultural Institutions — Sahitya Akademi, Sangeet Natak Akademi, Lalit Kala Akademi | Fostered India’s linguistic, artistic, and cultural education ecosystem. | | Encouragement of Scientific Research — Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and others | Strengthened India’s foundation in science, research, and innovation. | National Education Day 2025: Reflecting and Reimagining National Education Day 2025 calls on India to reflect on how far the nation has progressed in realizing Maulana Abul Kalam Azad’s vision of accessible and value-based learning. Across schools, colleges, and universities, seminars, essay competitions, debates, and awareness rallies highlight the role of literacy, innovation, and digital education in shaping modern India. This year’s observance emphasizes how technology and artificial intelligence are transforming classrooms. This will create a urge among students to balance innovation with ethics and human values. You May Also Like to Read: List of 9 Most Famous Mathematicians in History, Check the Hidden Legends! List of 9 Forgotten Kingdoms Lost to Time, Check Here! Conclusion Therefore, National Education Day 2025 is more than a tribute, and it is a reaffirmation of the ideals that built India’s modern education system. His legacy continues to guide an ecosystem grounded in equality, curiosity, and cultural pride. As India advances toward a more digital and inclusive future, honoring his vision means ensuring education remains not just a tool for employment, but a pathway to enlightenment, empowerment, and unity.


--- [Maulana Abul Kalam Azad - His Passion For Freedom and ...] ---
By Asghar Ali Engineer November 16-30, 2011) Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was a unique Islamic personality of great Islamic scholarship, patriotism and passion for communal harmony. However, it is highly regrettable that his services to the country have almost been forgotten. From new generation school or even college going students I doubt even one percent would know him and his achievements. I, therefore, heartily welcomed when in a recent meeting of General body of Institute of Advanced Studies, Simla whose chairman is currently Prof. Mungekar, also a Rajya Sabha member, suggested that like Ambedkar a summer school be held for Maulana Azad also for college teachers so that they may be acquainted with Maulana’s personality and achievements. In fact such summer schools for leaders like Maulana Azad, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan and others are overdue, particularly about Maulana Azad whose sacrifices for the country and its freedom are second to none. Eleventh November 2011 was the Maulana’s birthday and this year Government of India also remembered him and schools were asked to celebrate Maulana’s birthday as it is also education day. However, due to Diwali vacations students had not returned from their native places and hence response was rather poor. Maulana was son of Maulana Khairuddin of Calcutta (now Kolkata) who was highly respected Aalim and had thousands of disciples. He had married an Arab woman from Mecca and Maulana was born there during Maulana Khairuddins stay there. Thus in a way Arabic was his mother tongue and Maulana had great command over it. He was brought up in orthodox Islamic tradition and his father wanted him to succeed him. If he had accepted this offer he also would have had large number of disciples and would have been highly influential like his father. But the Maulana came under the influence of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan and read his writings avidly. However, he was highly independent minded and soon distanced himself from Sir Syed’s emphasis on loyalty to the British Empire though he accepted his views on modernity and modern education. Maulana was passionately committed to India’s freedom and tried to join the underground movement in Bengal but unfortunately those underground leaders thought a Muslim is not fit for joining it. For Maulana patriotism was an Islamic duty as the Prophet (PBUH) is reported to have said that love of one’s country is part of one’s faith (iman). And this love of country demanded its freedom from foreign slavery and thus he considered it his duty to free his country from British slavery. Thus he plunged into freedom movement from very young age. He became Congress President at a very young age, perhaps he was the youngest president of the Congress party. He, like Gandhi Ji, knew Hindu-Muslim unity was very necessary for freedom of India. Thus when he became President of the Congress in Ramgarh session of the Congress, he, in his presidential address concluded his speech by saying that “even if an angle descends from heaven with a gift of freedom for India from Allah I would not accept it until there is Hindu-Muslim unity as loss of India’s freedom is loss of India but loss of Hindu-Muslim unity is loss of entire humanity”. These are very profound words and for Maulana this was not mere rhetoric but was his deep commitment on the basis of his understanding of the Quran. Maulana’s tafsir (commentary) of the Qur’an which he wrote in early twenties during his Ranchi incarceration and is considered as great contribution to tafsir literature from Indian subcontinent. He has devoted the first volume of his tafsir (he could not complete it due to his highly busy political schedule and he had to write it all over again as the British police destroyed his earlier manuscript) to what he calls Wahdat-e-din i.e. unity of religion. Maulana had deep conviction, as we find from his tafsir about unity of all religions and he has shown achievements of his scholarship on expanding this concept in his tafsir and that is why his pronouncement about Hindu-Muslim unity was not mere political rhetoric, much less opportunism, but a deep religious conviction. Maulana was a great statesman and though he was great supporter of the Khilafat movement he was first to discard it when Kamal Pasha staged a coup in Turkey and removed the Khalifas from power and declared the institution of Khilafat as an outdated one. He also welcomed modern reforms of Ata Turk and advised Muslims to give up efforts for protecting institution of Khilafat which Turkish leaders themselves had disowned. Maulana also opposed Jinnah’s demand for one-third representation for Muslims in parliament in when the Nehru Committee Report came for discussion before the Congress Session of 1928. He argued that in democracy no community can be given over representation and as for minority rights, Constitution can take care of them through special provisions as the Indian Constitution did by providing for Articles 25 to 30. Maulana always took long term vision and never fell for cheap popularity. Azad did not agree with Jawaharlal Nehru on denying two cabinet seats to Muslim League in 1937 in U.P. as Muslim League lost in that election very badly. Maulana Azad advised Nehru to take two ministers nominated by Muslim League as refusal to take them will have long term adverse fall out and the Maulana proved right. Jinnah became furious and began to denounce the Congress government as the ‘Hindu’ Government which will never give justice to Muslims. If Nehru had accepted Maulana’s advice perhaps country could have been saved from partition though Nehru had his own reasons to deny two cabinet seats to Muslim League as he wanted to give Congress Muslims more representation. But Maulana thought otherwise on the basis of practical politics. Maulana always thought of future implications and not mere immediate consequences. Nehru and Azad were not merely good friends but had deep respect for each other. Nehru has paid glorious tributes to Maulana for his scholarship and mastery over several languages. Maulana’s knowledge of other religions was also very deep and profound. His commitment to women’s rights was as if he lived today. It is well known that Muslim theologians generally do not support gender equality and want women to be confined to home. Maulana was one of the exceptions. He translated the book published in Arabic in Egypt Al-Mir’at al-Muslimah i.e. The Muslim Woman which stands for gender equality and summarises the debate which was taking place in Egypt on women’s rights and Azad chose to translate this book as he was in favour of gender equality. It is important to note that he commented on the verse 2:228 that “this is revolutionary declaration of gender equality more than 1300 years ago” (Maulana was writing in 1920s). The only two other noted theologians who stood for gender equality from Indian sub-continent were Maulvi Mumtaz Ali Khan who was colleague of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan and Maulana Umar Ahmed Usmani who died recently in Karachi. Both were eminent theologians and were uncompromising in upholding gender equality. Maulvi Mumtaz Ali Khan wrote a book Huquq al-Niswan (Rights of women) and Maulana Umar Ahmed Usmani wrote Fiqh al-Qur’an (Qur’anic Jurisprudence) in 8 volumes elaborately arguing for gender equality in Qur’an. Maulana also had clearly predicted what is happening today in Pakistan. First, it is important to note that like his conviction about Hindu-Muslim unity, it was also Maulana’s strong conviction that it would be wrong to divide India on religious ground. One who loves one’s country can never divide it. Also, he knew that when democracy begins functional it has to take care of rights of minorities and Muslims were no mean minority. They were more than 25% before partition and today, if the country would not have been divided, they would have been more than 33%. Maulana had predicted that today if Muslims think Hindus are their enemy tomorrow when Pakistan comes into existence, and there will be no Hindus they would fight among themselves along regional, ethnic and sectarian lines. He had clearly told this to some members of Muslim League who came to meet him before leaving for Pakistan. This is what is happening today in Pakistan. Not only sectarianism has grown religious extremism is at its apex. Killing has become common and everyday affair. When religion is associated with politics, history of all religions show, power becomes far more important than religion and religious values. Power becomes goal and religion a mere instrument. Maulana knew this very well and that is why he was far more inclined towards a secular democratic polity than religious one. However, Maulana could not prevail and save country from partition as powerful vested interests like feudal lords from U.P. and Bihar and Muslim middle classes (afraid that they may not get services or quick promotions) on one hand, and, the British imperial interests, on the other, were bent upon dividing the country. Asghar Ali Engineer is an Islamic scholar who also heads the Centre for Study of Society & Secularism, Mumbai. Source: Centre for Study of Society and Secularism URL: https://newageislam.com/islamic-personalities/maulana-abul-kalam-azad-his/d/5930


--- [Maulana Azad loses place in NCERT textbook - The Siasat Daily] ---
India’s first Education Minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, has lost a place in the revised political science textbook published by the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT). In the old Class 11 NCERT political science textbook, ‘Indian Constitution at Work’, Azad’s reference appeared in the first chapter ‘Constitution — Why and How?’. A paragraph in the chapter read, “The Constituent Assembly had eight major Committees on different subjects. Usually, Jawaharlal Nehru, Rajendra Prasad, Sardar Patel, Maulana Azad or Ambedkar chaired these Committees. These were not men who agreed with each other on many things. Ambedkar had been a bitter critic of the Congress and Gandhi, accusing them of not doing enough for the upliftment of Scheduled Castes. Patel and Nehru disagreed on many issues. Nevertheless, they all worked together.” However, the revised textbook paragraph reads, ‘Usually, Jawaharlal Nehru, Rajendra Prasad, Sardar Patel or B.R. Ambedkar chaired these Committees.’ This change omitted the significant contribution of Maulana Azad to India’s constitution drafting process. Maulana Azad’s role in India’s independence Azad played a crucial role in the elections for the new Constituent Assembly of India that drafted India’s constitution. In the election, he led the Congress and was an essential member of the assembly. As Congress president, he led the delegation to negotiate with the British Cabinet Mission. Despite growing hostility from Jinnah, who described him as the “Muslim Lord Haw-Haw” and a “Congress Showboy,” Azad remained committed to Hindu-Muslim unity. After Independence, Azad remained a close confidante, supporter, and advisor to prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. As India’s first Minister of Education, he emphasized educating the rural poor and girls. Jammu and Kashmir’s conditional accession dropped Besides Azad’s removal, the reference of Jammu and Kashmir’s conditional accession has also been dropped in the tenth chapter of NCERT textbook, ‘Indian Constitution at Work’. The paragraph ‘For example, the accession of Jammu and Kashmir to the Indian union was based on a commitment to safeguard its autonomy under Article 370 of the Constitution.’ has been deleted.
