=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Con Darling Historical Marker]
Oct 21, 2019 · Con Darling, Ambassador of Smiles, dedicated his life to the betterment of humanity. This memorial pays tribute to his love of community both young and old. May his memory and spirit of giving life in us all. This commemoration was coordinated by the Brockville Lions Club and the Brockville Police Association. Dedicated this 17th day of June 1993 ——————————— This statue ...
URL: https://www.hmdb.org/m.asp?m=141816

[Con Darling Memorial - Blockhouse Island - Brockville, Ontario - Lions ...]
Aug 26, 2011 · Waymarking.com is a way to mark unique locations on the planet and give them a voice. While GPS technology allows us to pinpoint any location on the planet, mark the location, and share it with others, Waymarking is the toolset for categorizing and adding unique information for that location.
URL: https://www.waymarking.com/waymarks/WMCDWN_Con_Darling_Memorial_Blockhouse_Island_Brockville_Ontario

[Posts – Page 2]
Sep 26, 2017 — An enlargement of the above showing a woman pushing a stroller, possibly next to her husband ... The C.P.R. Wharf located at Block House Island in ...
URL: http://www.lynmuseum.ca/heritage-place-museum-lyn-ontario/posts/page/2/

[CON DARLING (1926 - 1993) - Flickr]
This wonderful metal work is on Blockhouse Island in Brockville, Ontario, Canada. It pays tribute to Mr. Con Darling, remembered as an ambassador of smiles who dedicated his life to the betterment of humanity. Con Darling...the lovable &amp; famous clown from Brockville, who walked every parade in rags pushing a live chicken in a stroller. to the delight of everybody who watched...
URL: https://www.flickr.com/photos/larrys_model_railway/albums/72157626932768912/

[Selfie with Con Darling | Culture Days 2020]
Con Darling stood at the pinnacle of this group, well known to generations of Brockvillians, and always willing to appear at a local event to elicit smiles and laughter. This statue was made by the students of Thousand Islands Secondary School and was made financially possible by a grant from the City of Brockville and the local Lions Club.
URL: https://culturedays.ca/en/events/702ede35-747a-4e58-8dbe-bf32a327c852


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Con Darling Historical Marker] ---
Con Darling (1926 to 1993) dedicated his life to the betterment of humanity. This memorial pays tribute to his love of community both young and old. May his memory and spirit of giving life in us all. This commemoration was coordinated by the Brockville Lions Club and the Brockville Police Association. Dedicated this 17th day of June 1993 ——————————— This statue was lovingly constructed by the students at 1000 Islands Secondary School. Erected 1993 by Brockville Lions Club and the Brockville Police Association. Topics. This historical marker is listed in this topic list: Charity & Public Work. Location. 44° 35.269′ N, 75° 40.866′ W. Marker is in Brockville, Ontario, in Leeds and Grenville United Counties. Marker is on Block House Island Road 0.2 kilometers south of Water Street, on the right when traveling south. Touch for map. Marker is at or near this postal address: 30 Block House Island Road, Brockville, Ontario K6V 4S9, Canada. Touch for directions. Other nearby markers. At least 8 other markers are within walking distance of this marker. The Wreck of the ROBERT GASKIN (a few steps from this marker); Blockhouse Island (a few steps from this marker); SS Kingston (a few steps from this marker); The Bluenose Visit, 1933 / La visite du Bluenose, 1933 (within shouting distance of this marker); 5 Sunken Treasures in the Brockville Area (within shouting distance of this marker); a different marker also named Blockhouse Island (within shouting distance of this marker); a different marker also named Blockhouse Island (within shouting distance of this marker); Brockville Rowing Club Regatta (within shouting distance of this marker). Touch for a list and map of all markers in Brockville. Also see . . . Con Darling: “Brockville’s Ambassador of Smiles” Remembered (2014). (Submitted on October 28, 2019, by William Fischer, Jr. of Scranton, Pennsylvania.) Credits. This page was last revised on January 1, 2020. It was originally submitted on October 28, 2019, by William Fischer, Jr. of Scranton, Pennsylvania. This page has been viewed 94 times since then and 49 times this year. Photos: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. submitted on October 28, 2019, by William Fischer, Jr. of Scranton, Pennsylvania.


--- [Con Darling Memorial - Blockhouse Island - Brockville, Ontario - Lions ...] ---
5 captures 21 May 2016 - 13 Aug 2024 Jul AUG Sep 13 2023 2024 2025 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20240813142514/https://www.waymarking.com/waymarks/WMCDWN_Con_Darling_Memorial_Blockhouse_Island_Brockville_Ontario shop forums waymarks scavenger hunts groups categories profile home Home > Categories > Category > Waymark you are not logged in. [log in] Con Darling Memorial - Blockhouse Island - Brockville, Ontario - Lions Clubs International Markers on Waymarking.com View waymark gallery Con Darling Memorial - Blockhouse Island - Brockville, Ontario in Lions Clubs International Markers Posted by: Canadianzombie N 44° 35.268 W 075° 40.866 18T E 445935 N 4937387 A memorial statue and plaque comemorating Brockville's most famous clown, Con Darling. Waymark Code: WMCDWN Location: Ontario, Canada Date Posted: 08/26/2011 Published By: Raine Views: 34 Download this waymark: .GPX File .LOC File .KML File (Google Earth) This statue was made by the students of Thousand Islands Secondary School and was made financially possible by a grant from the City of Brockville and the local Lions Club. Con Darling was a local gentleman who always dressed up in a clown suit and pushed a chicken in a baby carriage in parades. He even lead the Grey Cup Parade in Toronto one year. This statue is a fitting tribute to a great humanitarian, who knew how to make people laugh and it's thanks to groups like the Lions Club who made the project possible. Cheers CZ Street Address (if known): 30 Blockhouse Island Parkway Brockville, ON CA K6V 4S9 Condition?: Great Visit Instructions: 1) Please provide a photo you have taken of the Friendship Arch, Monument or Plaque. 2) If known, please indicate the operating Lions Club responsible for the placement of the Friendship Arch, Monument or Plaque. 3) Any other information regarding your visit would be greatly appreciated. Search for... Geocaching.com Google Map Google Maps MapQuest Bing Maps Nearest Waymarks Nearest Lions Clubs International Markers Nearest Geocaches Create a scavenger hunt using this waymark as the center point Recent Visits/Logs: Date Logged Log 08/21/2022 Bug Finders visited it 04/15/2022 alpha772 visited it 07/11/2017 lindeye visited it 01/07/2016 elyob visited it 10/13/2013 Pistache 911 visited it 10/13/2013 Ou_Est_Charly visited it 10/13/2012 Fee&me visited it 06/29/2012 denben visited it 05/06/2012 jack2u visited it 04/06/2012 jiggs11 visited it 03/31/2012 cblondie visited it 03/28/2012 nursematilda visited it 02/03/2012 petendot visited it 01/21/2012 Mr. Packrat visited it 10/06/2011 mTn_biKer65 visited it 09/24/2011 geenef visited it 08/28/2011 Canadianzombie visited it View all visits/logs iOS user? Try the Waymarkly app! Includes the ability to log visits, view logs, save and filter offline Waymarks and use beautiful offline maps! Waymarkly is the premiere Waymarking app for iOS. Get the Waymarkly app now Map Search from Here Waymark Options View Visits/Comments (16) View Waymark View Gallery (23) Advertisement Quick Searches Waymark Searches: My Waymarks Featured Waymarks Newest Waymarks My Unfinished Waymarks Waymarks I've Visited Newest Uncategorized Waymarks My Uncategorized Waymarks My Assisted Waymarks Category Searches: My Categories Favorites Ignore List Largest Newest Requiring Review Visit Searches: My Visits Group Lists: Groups I Manage Groups I Belong To Newest Groups Recruiting Groups Scavenger Hunts: My Scavenger Hunts Newest Public Hunts My Active Hunts My Completed Hunts Miscellaneous: My Saved Searches Full Category List


--- [Posts – Page 2] ---
Lyn, March 12 – A very successful carnival was held on the local ring on Friday evening which attracted a large number of skaters and spectators. Several contests were held and the valuable prizes which were donated by Brockville and Lyn stores were well worth trying for. The judges were Miss. Helen Purvis, Miss Anna Nelson, Mrs. J.C. McCready and Harris Hanna, who awarded the prizes to the following: Oldest Skater- Walter Billings Oldest skating couple – Mrs. Jock Stewart and Walter Billings. Fastest skater, boy under 14 – Glen Darling Fastest Skater boy over 14 – Ward Pettem, Louis Darling Fastest skating girl – Miss Doris McNish Best skating couple – Miss Rose Leader and Hurbert Leader Best costume, girls – Mrs. Jock Stewart and Mrs. W. Coon Best costume, men – Arthur Ladd Best lady skater – Miss Esther Ladd Fastest backward skating girl – Miss Dorothy Mott Fastest backward skating boy – Cauley Ladd Largest family on skates – Arthur Ladd Fastest log sawyers – Donald Gibson and W. Smith completing the cut in three minutes and 55 seconds Nail driving contest – Thomas McNish, six strokes Prizes were donated by the following: C.E. Johnston Co., Arnold’s stationary store, J.H. Doyle, Smart’s hardware, Hugh Cameron, Cameron and Borthwick, Fullertons drug store, McDougal Brothers, Johnston’s Hardware, H.P. Conklin, H,B, Wright Co., J.C. McCrady, V.W. Coon’s bakery, Walter Billings, Walter Jarvis Gilmaur’s wholesale dealers. The valuable door prize has not yet been called for. The lucky ticket is 248 and the person holding this ticket should call at once at McCrady’s store and receive the prize. (There was no indication of the newspaper or date of this article we would estimate that it was held in the 1920’s or 1930’s) (article published around 1890, publication unknown) If I were to go on a trip to Europe, and someone were to ask me if I had seen my own country, what answer would I give? A month ago, if I had been asked this question, my answer should have been “Why, of course, for I have been in every province of Canada, have camped and toured and worked from Victoria, B.C. to Halifax. Know my country? I should say I do!” That has been my song for many a day, that I have seen my own country. If I had gone to Europe last month, that should have been my answer. Not so now! Listen my friends: I’ve been down to Lyn! Oh, what a bonnie place is Lyn! If I were to go to Europe, or some other country no matter what my answer and self-satisfied pride might have been, say, a month ago, I very much fear I could answer only this, that I thought I knew my Canada like a book, but I have seen Lyn, and all my confidence is shaken Lyn has awakened me to the simple fact that Canada has not yet been found by me. How many other Lyns are there, and to which I have never been? Quaint little villages, off the beaten highway, serene, pure, gentle and oh, what shall I say? Very lovely indeed. No, if I were to venture abroad and be asked how much I know of my own land, well, my answer is going to be, henceforth. “I’m not very sure about my knowledge of Canada, not very sure, but I’ve been down to Lyn.” And they will not know what I mean and they will ask me, and I shall answer them somewhat like this: Did you ever hear of the small river Afron, the “Sweet Afton” of the poet Robert Burns “How lofty, sweet Afton, thy neighbouring hills, Far marked with the courses of clear winding rills!” Or again, in another verse, “How peasant thy banks and green valleys below, Where wild in the woodlands the primroses blow.” You know these lines? Do you know, or can you picture the sweet and gentle scene of Burns’ day? Well, if Burns had passed through Lyn, Ontario, his poem, “Sweet Afton”, might have found its setting there. Lyn is a quaint and lovely village near Brockville. But no! For shame! I am in error: Brockville is a town not far from the beautiful village of Lyn. But, perhaps, that is unfair to Brockville, for, after all, Brockville just hasn’t the natural endowment of beauty to be found at Lyn. The same thing is true, largely, of nearly all the lake or river front towns of Ontario, they haven’t the rolling countryside of the towns back a wee bit in the counties. And Lyn is a typical case, for it is set in a picturesque frame of hills and valleys and rhythmic watercourses. Lyn is an idyll ! It is a village unspoiled in an age of ruin through so-called improvement. It is a psalm in a world of noise and destruction. Its tranquil vales and placid, ambling waters are a rebuke to modern ways of men. It seems to have an atmosphere untouched by the rot and decay of modern hurry, and it knows not the panic of haste of today, that impatience with life which makes the builders poison their mortar so that disintegration starts in the foundation before the roof is finished. Lyn is a pastoral, a poem of peace and quaint beauty, a song of life, a melody in the wistful and yearning key of a shepherd piping ‘neath a tree in the meadow. Ah, yes, all this, and more: It is the soul of true life floating up from the valley on the wind, the fluting of Pan, as he muses on the rim of the river down in the glade where the stream meanders from the meadow over against the wooded hill. Yes, we, Mrs. Robb and I, went down to Lyn. I gave a recital there. The trees are old, the houses look, each one, like home. There is a well-kept lawn, the tidy walk and friendly feeling. It is off the main route of travel. And so, if I seem to have gone mad over Lyn, well, hold your horses a bit; don’t condemn me too hastily. Go down to Lyn yourself, and, I dare to say it, I’ll have company in my madness. Our industries seem to be running about full time. The Last Factory employing about ten hands in turning blocks of hard maple wood into lasts for the Quebec shoe factories to make their shoes on have been running steadily under A.E.Cumming, proprietor. The Lyn Agricultural Works owned by Geo. P. McNish have established more than a county reputation among the farmers for his land rollers, cultivators, root cutters, etc. and his sales this season have been larger than ever. The roller flour mills owned by Jas. Cumming are running night and day by water power with steam auxiliary turning out 300 bags of flour per day, taking a car load of wheat per day to keep them supplied. They have been running behind in their orders all summer and the present boom in wheat has increased that difficulty. The Lyn Woollen Mills, run by steam power, have had an increase in their trade lately due, no doubt, to the excellent cloths and yarns turned out by Mr. R. Walker. “No Shoddy” is his motto and he is bound to win. One of the latest industries to start here is that of Mr. Alba Root who manufactures wooden ware including Elm hub blocks, dry and liquid measures, curry combs, etc. Mr. Root started in a small way, and as he is a practical mechanic and oversees all his work, his business has increased. He sells his goods to the wholesale men of our Canadian cities. The G. & C. Eyre Co. although mot actively manufacturing just now are still able t fill all orders for their several classes of wooden ware. Grandfather clock, also called longcase clock, tall pendulum clock enclosed in a wooden case that stands upon the floor and is typically 1.8 to 2.3 metres (6 to 7.5 feet) in height. The name grandfather clock was adopted after the song “Grandfather’s Clock,” written in 1876 by Henry Clay Work, became popular. The first grandfather clocks featured a Classical architectural appearance, but a variety of styles have enjoyed popularity over the years. One form of early pendulum clock was wall-mounted but, because of its heavy lead weights, probably difficult to secure. It is believed that the grandfather clock was developed to support these heavier clock mechanisms. (Encyclopedia Britannica) The history of our clock is somewhat interesting: This Grandfather Clock was built by Brockville resident John Oscar Adams Fenton (1856-1949) in 1930. He built it for his second cousin Dorothy Hayes Fenton as a gift for her 16th Birthday. The wooden case of the clock was built from old wooden church pews and church organ parts. Because of the Great Depression, money was in short supply, thus the works and Westminster Chimes were installed later in 1937. The works and chimes were supplied by local jeweller, Allan Hayes. The Grandfather Clock was donated to the Heritage Place Museum in 2017 by Donald Ruston UE, son of Dorothy (Fenton) Ruston. The First World War, the “war to end all wars” 1914-1918, stirred the nationalistic pride and sense of duty to King and Country in our Canadian men and boys. Many hurried to join in the very beginning as it was felt that the war would be over before they got the chance to fight. Postcards were a chance for those serving to send back home a glimpse of what life in the military was like. They give us a look into what daily life was like for those who served. While our collection is small, we wanted to share with you what those who served shared with their family and friends back home. We are always interested in increasing our collection so that we may share with everyone this glimpse into our past. If you have postcards there are three ways in which you could share them with us: 1) a direct donation to the museum 2) loan them to us, we will scan them and return the originals to you 3) if you have a digital image you can send it to us at our email address: LynMuseum@gmail.com If you can identify some of the ranks and units of specific postcards we would appreciate hearing from you so we can add this information to the picture: LynMuseum@gmail.com The War at Home England Bustard Camp at Salisbury Plain In 1914, when the British accepted the Canadian government’s offer of a contingent of 25,000 men, they decided to station the Canadians at Salisbury Plain for final training and work up before going to France. Salisbury Plain, in central southern England, had since 1898 been one of the British Army’s main training bases. At the time they had nearly 300 square miles of grassy hilly terrain with an occasional stand of trees. There was a thin coat of topsoil on top of a chalk base. The Plain had been used to conduct manoeuvres, summer camps, and rifle and artillery training on the ranges. In preparation for the Canadians arrival they had pitched floor-boarded tents and erected cook houses. The arrival of an additional 8,000 men above the 25,000 they had been informed to expect, the British Army had to scramble to find additional tents for the men. The men and women stationed sent postcards home of places they may have visited to send notes and to give them a glimpse of a peaceful England The Castle from Connaught Park, Dover Connaught Park was the answer to a long-felt need for a public park in Dover and was achieved in 1883 by the lease of land on rising ground to the north-west of the Castle. Voluntary public subscription covered the cost of landscaping, the lake, trees, shrubs, fencing, and the park-keeper’s lodge. The Castle King Henry II’s Keep (Great Tower) above Inner Curtain Wall (Inner Bailey) and Kings’s Gate. Also has a Western Outer Curtain Wall and Constable’s Gateway. The Park was opened by the Dutchess of Connaught in 1883. Battle Abbey Gateway In 1070, Pope Alexander II ordered the Normans to do penance for killing so many people during their conquest of England. In response, William the Conqueror vowed to build an abbey where the Battle of Hastings had taken place, with the high altar of its church on the supposed spot where King Harold fell in that battle on Saturday, 14 October 1066. He started building it, dedicating it to St. Martin, sometimes known as “the Apostle of the Gauls,” though William died before it was completed. Its church was finished in about 1094 and consecrated during the reign of his son William known as Rufus. William I had ruled that the church of St Martin of Battle was to be exempted from all episcopal jurisdiction, putting it on the level of Canterbury. It was remodelled in the late 13th century but virtually destroyed during the Dissolution of the Monasteries in 1538 under King Henry VIII. At the dissolution, the displaced monks of Battle Abbey were provided with pensions, including the abbot John Hamond and the prior Richard Salesherst, as well as monks John Henfelde, William Ambrose, Thomas Bede and Thomas Levett, all bachelors in theology. The abbey and much of its land was given by Henry VIII to his friend and Master of the Horse, Sir Anthony Browne, who demolished the church and parts of the cloister and turned the abbot’s quarters into a country house. (Wikipedia) NetleyHospital The Royal Victoria Hospital or Netley Hospital was a large military hospital in Netley, near Southampton, Hampshire, England. Construction started in 1856 at the suggestion of Queen Victoria but its design caused some controversy, chiefly from Florence Nightingale. Often visited by Queen Victoria, the hospital was extensively used during the First World War. (Wikipedia) Dover over Marine Parade and CastleDuring both World War I (1914-1918) and World War II (1939-1945) Dover became Fortress Dover – a military zone from where, amongst other things, troops embarked for Continental Europe and beyond. Indeed, Dover, besides being a port was also a major military base with huge barracks on both the Eastern – where the Castle is – and Western Heights. Because Dover was the military port, Folkestone remained the civilian port for the Channel crossing, supplementing as a military port when needs necessitated. (The Dover Historian) Some Post Cards had little pockets in which were a pull out section of smaller pictures, here is one such card. Soldier’s Portraits During the period 1914-1918, local photographers in British towns, villages and training camps took hundreds of thousands if not millions, of portraits of soldiers in uniform. The photographers were simply responding to the demand of these young men who wanted their picture taken before leaving England for the Western Front and elsewhere. You will find WWI photographs taken in 1914-15, of proud young volunteers – ‘Kitchener’s Men’ – looking pleased to be in their new uniforms and soon to be doing their duty for ‘King and Country’. And there are WWI photographic postcards from 1916 on wards, showing not volunteers but conscripts now, who also look happy to be photographed in khaki – but not always! HMS Thunderer was the fourth and last Orion class dreadnought battleship built for the Royal Navy in the early 1910s. She spent the bulk of her career assigned to the Home and Grand Fleets. Aside from participating in the Battle of Jutland in May 1916 and the inconclusive action of August 19th, her service during Word War I generally consisted of routine patrols and training in the North Sea. WWI Silk Post Cards The embroidered silk postcard is a common souvenir of the First World War. They are blank postcards onto which an embossed paper surround has been glued, to frame and hold a central piece of silk. On the silk, a design is hand-embroidered in coloured thread. The embroidered postcards were very popular with British soldiers who often sent them home. They were sold in thin paper envelopes but were seldom sent through the post in them. They were too fragile and, more particularly, they represented quite an investment – they were not cheap souvenirs. Usually they were mailed with letters. For this reason, they are often unwritten, with no marks on the back, any message having been sent in an accompanying letter. Comic Postcards The Great War of 1914-18 was certainly not one of the funniest events to be recorded on picture postcards, especially for those men fighting in the mud-filled trenches of France and Belgian. However, there were artists – both military and civilian – who were willing to inject a little humour or satire into their postcard drawings and paintings – even when depicting the gloomiest of situations. (Tony Allen) Rembering someone left behind Some people found in verse cards the sentiment that they wanted to convey to another but could not express it themselves. In addition, if the verse was not signed perhaps it gave more of a feeling to the receiver that their soldier had created it. Some of these postcards ran in series. (Tony Allen) Postcards From France A variety of post cards were sent from France and Belgium during the war. Some were depicting scenes of the war and destruction, while others depicted Allied Forces united in fighting the Germans. Others were general in nature trying to not focus on the day to day misery that the men and women endured. 13th Battalion (Royal Highlanders of Canada), CEF The battalion was formed from volunteers from the Royal Highland Regiment of Canada (The Black Watch), a militia regiment based in Montreal, as well as men from other militia regiments. Sent to England as part of the First Contingent in September, 1914, the 13th Battalion became part of the 3rd Brigade of the 1st Canadian Division. The 3rd Brigade had the distinction of containing the 13th Battalion (the Royal Highlanders of Canada), the 14th Battalion (the Royal Montreal Regiment), the 15th Battalion (he 48th Highlanders of Canada) and the 16th Battalion (The Canadian Scottish). (Wikepedia) Loved Ones Left Behind It was very common to have photos of loved ones made into postcards and mailed to those serving overseas. Other cards were sent to boost the spirits of the men. Here are some examples of such cards. carried by the men in France to remind them of home. From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings In my youth, Harper’s hill was all that could be desired as a spot to spend an afternoon on. At first the big hand sleigh at the farm was the only means of conveyance, but many times, unless the snow was pretty well packed and frozen, the runner would cut through and you usually got a tumble and a skinned nose in the bargain. My first toboggan was a very crude affair – just three or four barrel staves laid flat and cleats nailed across at each end. This was very speedy but it was a problem, as it would turn around on the hill and carry you down backwards. Later on I secured a thin board about fourteen inches wide and four feet long. The front end was thinned down and the half of a cheese box band was nailed on the under side with a cleat across the other end of the board. Another cleat was nailed across the back. This toboggan proved very satisfactory and would carry two or three quite comfortably. Through the winter, the road in front of our farm house would drift high with snow, and teams passing over it often got stuck or tipped their loads over, and we were called out to help them. On one occasion a team from MacIntosh Mills got stuck and we boys took shovels to help them out. The mills at that time were doing a big business making toboggans. After we had helped him through the banks. Tom Stevenson, the driver of the team said “Well boys, I have no money but if one of these toboggans happens to slide off my load I guess it will be yours.” And it slid off! These toboggans were well constructed of narrow slats, steamed and bent to the proper shape, with cleats across the rawhide thongs binding the slats to the cleats. A little grove was cut underneath so that the cords would not be damaged when used. Our toboggan proved very satisfactory but was not big enough. Harper’s Hill by this time had become very popular and young folks gathered nightly to enjoy the sliding. As we had packed the snow and made a good track clear to the creek, we could cross over it and go up the bank, usually at a pretty good speed. Sometimes, unfortunately the toboggan would leave the track and carry us to a point on the creek where the ice was not solid. On one occasion I was steering, at the back, when this happened. As we neared the edge of the ice, I fell off, the toboggan and the two in front passed over the creek, but did not go clear up the bank, and slid back with the end of the toboggan going through the ice. Of course the water was not deep and the girls waded to the shore. When they missed me they had thought I had gone under the ice and they started to yell. But I was safe and they were wet! Te foundry man in Lyn, a very handy fellow who could do wood work, said he could make us a good strong toboggan. Instead of making his of narrow slats he made it in three sections, each seven inches wide. The cleats were securely with screws, countersunk in the boards, and the boards at the front as usual steamed and bent, and secured with wire to the first cleat. This proved a very satisfactory process and we gave the speedy new toboggan a good trial on Harper’s Hill. One night a couple of my uncles came over with their families and decided to take a ride down the hill. I still have a vivid recollection of Uncle Bidwell Billings, who always wore a felt hat in the winter. As the toboggan gained speed his hat blew off, and I can still see his long hair and whiskers as he went past me down the hill. That same night my other uncle, Herb Billings, decided to have a ride. He was sitting up on the toboggan near the back, and as the toboggan gained speed down the steeper part of the hill he got scared and put his feet out to stop it. When they caught in the snow he was lifted clear and landed face downward and hands outstretched, the result being a skinned nose, forehead and chin. We had to take him to the doctor for repairs. About this time the boys decided to build a slide in Lyn, and in the fall of 1887, cedar posts and lumber were donated and the slide erected, on the hill just west of where the Storey barn now stands. It was a splendid structure and on down the hill the boards were put on their edge to form a channel for the toboggans and their surface was well ice. You could go up the steps at the back of the slide, assemble your load at the top, get a push from the starter and in a second you were down in the flat and across the pond, even to the edge of Cornell’s woods. Sometimes though after leaving the boarded side of the slide, your toboggan would jump the track and head for the cat-tails which covered you with the fluffy tops until you looked like as if you were in a feather bed. The foundry man did a big business making these toboggans for a while. Nearly every family in the neighbourhood secured one. Another slide was erected on Schofield’s Hill, Brockville, just behind where a gasoline station now stands. This was a splendid structure with two slides; at night when it was lighted with torches beside the track it was a gorgeous sight to see boys dressed in blanket suits and toques, swiftly speeding down the hill and across the pond. I enjoyed one night on this hill, my cousin, Eck Kilborn, had a good toboggan and we four, my cousin Joe Clark, later a prominent politician in the West, Bob Geddes, and I had a wonderful evening. Another slide in Brockville was built on what was known as the Lacrosse Grounds. The slide in Lyn did not last long. In 1889 this district was visited by a severe windstorm. Roofs were blown off barns, trees uprooted, and the Methodist Church, not then in use, was blown down and the slide a few rods from it, was levelled to the ground and never rebuilt. The posts and lumber afterwards were used to build sidewalks in the village of Lyn. The wrecked church was rebuilt at Glen Buell, with the brick and other material that was salvaged and fit for use. This church still stands, with a record over its door stating it was erected in 1890. The natural slide at the farm is gone. The demand for building sand has meant that trucks have been hauling for four or five years from he hillside, and now only mounds of earth show where we raced down on our toboggans many years ago. From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings I never seemed to have much luck at this sport. As a boy I could go down to the creek and over to the falls, where with a can of worms I could catch a dozen bullheads, which when cleaned and ready for the frying pan were about the size of sardines. In the spring, by walking along the bank of the creek, I could see nice big red-fin suckers basking in the sunlight, and once or twice, a two foot pike; but a bent pin on the end of a string was no way to catch them. I remember going with my Aunt Belle to the Brooks Farm just east of Butternut Bay, on the St. Lawrence River. As she wanted to go fishing we went down to the boathouse and got the boat into the water. I did not know much about rowing, but my aunt said we should not go fast to troll, and we didn’t. I usually bumped the oars together and pinched my fingers, but we got along very well. All at once she said, “Oh, I have a bite!” But it was a false alarm. In a few minutes she called again, “I have another bite,” but again no luck. It was hard for me to keep the boat on a straight course, but she warned me if she hooked a fish I was to keep on rowing. Again she called, “I have got something this time!” I kept on rowing, but it was getting so exciting that I could hardly keep the boat out in deep water. All at once, about twenty feet behind the boat, the fish jumped and tried to shake the hook from its mouth, then went down under again. My aunt kept pulling in the line, and was just in the act of lifting the big fish over the edge of the boat when it gave a flop, its tail struck the side of the boat and the line broke. She leaned over the edge and saw the big fish swim away! My aunt had become so excited that she was hysterical and just sat there and cried. We certainly had lost a big fish, as I had caught a glimpse of it as its head appeared above the water. As we had lost our tackle and our fish we went ashore and back to the house. For weeks she could hardly talk of anything but the big fish she had lost. Years later, my brother and I had a similar experience outside of Mallorytown Landing about the year 1933. We had hooked a big maskinonge, but just when we got it up beside the boat the line broke. This exciting event was witnessed by the occupants of another boat, and the item was printed in the local paper, where I found it among other articles a few weeks ago. Jones’ Creek, below the old mill was the mecca of local fisherman, and many tales of big catches. Practical jokes played on unsuspecting fisherman always added zest to the stories told after one of these outings. One, as told by my cousin Burt Billings, seems worth repeating. He and his cousin Herb Blair drove to the Mills one night, tramped along the bank to the big rock, where they proceeded to try their luck with worms for bait. Herb seemed the lucky one that night as he hauled in a dozen or more big bullheads. Burt’s luck was different. For an hour he sat there and did not get even a bite. Finally he called to Herb that he was going down near him, to try again. Of course Herb objected, saying if he came down there neither would get a bite, but Burt came just the same, and in a few minutes he hauled in a nice fish! A few minutes later he got another, while Herb’s luck changed. Burt kept on till he had a nice catch of fish and finally Herb said he was tired and was going home. Winding up his line and going back to gather up his fish, on a string, in the dark he could not find where he had placed them; finally he gave up and started for his horse. Burt, gathering up his catch, followed him and they drove home, Herb all the way bemoaning the loss of his fish. Burt got out first and as Herb started on, Burt stopped him saying “Oh Herb I guess the joke is on you. It was your fish I was catching all the time and you can take them home. I just picked one from your lot each time I hauled that piece of stick from the water.” At one time at Yonge Mills there was a long channel or sluice-way; at the head of it you could take up the planks or gate and let the water pour down the passage to the pool below. In the spring the boys would go there, open the gate so that the fish would swim up this runway in droves; then, with a plank placed across this stream near the lower end and a large hoop net placed in the water and held by one of the boys, the rest of the fisherman would go up stream, shut off the water and catch the returning fish in the net. One night my partner Bob, four other lads and I drove to the Mills. They had put the net in three or four times but as the season for suckers was about over had no luck. Finally they said “Bob, you hold the net and we will try again. We will take the poles and splash the water and surly some will go down.” In the darkness with Bob squatting on the plank holding the hoop of the net the boys went up and started splashing. Finally they heard Bob yell, “Come on down quickly! The net must be full! I can hardly hold it. Hurry, Hurry” The lads rushed down, and all together they lifted the net from the water and dumped its contents on the grass but there was no sound of fish flopping. Bob lit a match and held it over the empty net. There were no fish there but the skeleton of a calf, which the boys had thrown into the stream above! From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings In the ordinary herd of cattle on the farm there were very few thoroughbreds and in the spring it was the custom to keep the offspring of only the best cows. A neighbour, wishing a good calf to raise could usually get one for the asking; all others were fed for a few weeks for veal or slaughtered. At the present time many whole herds are thoroughbred animals and young calves not needed on the home farm are sold for prices ranging from twenty-five to fifty dollars each. My job was to dispose of the unwanted calves, and rather than kill them I would try to feed them for a few days and sell them to a drover, who usually called about once a week. It was sometimes a difficult feat to teach a young calf to drink from a pail, as usually it would it would put its nose down to the bottom of the pail, give it a bunt and over would go the milk on the floor or on your clothes. One week when I had missed the drover he left word he would be at the C.P.R. dock the next day, and would take the two calves I had. As I did not care to kill them I decided to load them in the spring wagon and go to town with them. Tying their feet and then tying the caves themselves, I started. A cousin, Annie Slack of Lansdowne, who was visiting us, decided she would go along. It had been raining and the roads were muddy, but all went well until, passing along King St. (Brockville), just opposite Gilmour & Co. office, someone called from the sidewalk and pointed to the back of the wagon. Looking around I saw one calf, hanging, its body suspended behind the box and its feet tied to the other calf. I stopped the horse and handing the reins to the girl I jumped out and ran around behind. I was too late. The other calf had struggled and both had fallen to the street. Brockville streets in the spring were not the clean paved thoroughfares of the present day. Then they were covered with a couple of inches of mud and filth in which the calves were lying. A few years previously we had brought a long black fur coat. It had always been a couple or three inches too long for walking comfortably but I never had it shortened, and this day I had worn it, as the weather was still cold. The horse was a bit nervous as a crowd was beginning to gather to watch the fun. I stooped over, gathered the calves in my arms, and was just straightening up to land them in the wagon when the horse made a step ahead. I attempted to move up also but my foot caught in the front of my coat and down I went full length, my arms still around the calves. My cap fell off, and finally freeing myself from the calves which were struggling and splashing in the mud, I saw that my driver was so convulsed with laughter that she could do nothing with the horse. Hailing a passing team I got the man to come and hold my horse. He backed the wagon nearer to me, and this time I managed to land my load in place. It must have been a very amusing scene for those on the board side walk, but I did not see much fun in it and got away and down to the dock and rid of my load. When I got home and told my parents, I said “Never again! The calves can die of old age before I ever try that again.” From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings The modern way of caring for the hay crop seems a far cry from the old way in which the weather had a lot to do with curing and stacking. The horse fork for unloading was a wonderful improvement, as before it was installed, one man passed the hay to a scaffold at the big beam of the barn and another passed it on up to the man in the hay mow. With the horse fork, when help was scarce and a horse was trained to draw the load, one man could unload his wagon alone, the hay being left to be spread around later. My first memory of haying time was when we had the old wooden horse rake, which I have described in another article. I have heard Father say that for a couple of years after coming to the farm he cut the hay and grain by hand. However, for cutting the grain a cradle was used. This consisted of a scythe with extra prongs, nearly the length of the blade, one above the other, that caught the grain when it fell and laid it in neat shape the heads all pointing one way. Thus the one following to bind the sheaves could, with the aid of a wooden hand rake, draw it together, make a band of a handful of the straw and with a neat twist of the ends secure the sheaf and leave it to be stoked up. About the year 1870 we purchased a new mowing machine. It was manufactured by Cossitt Bros., then of Smiths Falls, (later moved to Brockville) and sold by Edward Glazier. This was a great improvement on the hand cutting. The frame was made of oak, and for thirty-five years it did all the cutting of hay on the farm. A year later a reaper attachment was purchased. This consisted of a platform fitted to the cutting bar and bolted to the frame of the mower at the back; an iron wheel at the other side of the platform carried its weight, and a reel similar to the ones used on the binder of later years held the grain to the knives. On the centre of the platform a post secured with a saddle and breast-plate, so that a man could stand and support himself in the saddle, rest his chest against the breast-plate and with a fork gather the grain from the knives, pass it over to his left until he had enough to make a sheaf, and then with his fork, place the bundle behind the mower, ready to be tied. This mower is now in the museum of the Experimental Farm at Ottawa, with a lot of other farm machinery of ancient manufacture. Later a self-raking reaper was purchased, but the bundles of grain still had to be tied by hand. As binders were beginning to be used locally about the year 1892, a second had Chatham binder, a cumbersome machine, with a wooden frame, was secured and the three neighbours, Father, Horton Rowsom and Will Morrison, managed to get it in working order. It cut the grain on the three farms but the next season the knotter refused to work. The lever that started the tying part having been damaged, the result was that the grain would fill up the knotter and the lever would have to be pulled by hand. Horton Rowsom had a hired man, Ed Haywood. He tied a strong chord to this lever, walked along beside the knotter and when enough grain was in place would pull this cord. So Ed had a job, and all through the harvest he walked around the field pulling the string. Ed was a war veteran from the British army, who had come to Canada One day he ran away with a woman, went over the river and they were married. Ed said afterwards, it was awful rough crossing the river and it had been rough ever since! His wife finally left him, and he made his home with the Rowsoms. In 1894 I had a trip to Manitoba with Horton Rowsom and Stewart Morrison, on one of the Harvest Excursions. There I had a chance to see the new Massey-Harris and Deering binders in operation. The next year a Massey-Harris binder with sheaf carrier was purchased and this served the three of four farms cutting the grain for many years But to get back to the haying…. A new steel horse rake was bought about the year 1875. It also was a Cossitt rake and we were all very proud of it. However, five years later the hired man took old Tom, one of our team, to the field to do some raking after supper. Finishing this he drove the horse to a windrow of hay and left him, while he went on to cock up the raked hay. Tom (the horse) was not used to being in the field without his team mate and decided to leave for home. He took a straight course, the wheel went over a stone pile, and the teeth dropped down making such a clatter that it scared Tom and started him running. We children were outside the fence of the lawn rolling on the slope at the side of the road when we heard Tom coming. The wheel struck the gate post as he came on the road, and the axle broke. Fortunately we knew enough to get inside the fence as he crossed the road and passed right over the place where we had been playing. Striking the rake against a telephone pole, he left the remains of the rake there and went on to the stable. Later, the 14 acre field back of the woods had yielded a great crop of hay. Father had it all ready to stack and secured a couple of extra men and team. All that day I had been on the horse rake following the wagons to clean up the rakings. At four o’clock Father said “Walt, you hitch the horse on the spring wagon, go to the house and bring out our supper. Your mother will have it ready.” Driving across the woodlot and into the meadow I soon reached the house where mother gave me a couple of market baskets all covered with papers and a table cloth, and I drove carefully back to the field. I will ever forget that supper. The men came in, sat round on the ground, the cloth was spread and the basket unloaded – warmed up potatoes, smoked ham, just fried and tender, eggs, fresh buns and in the end of the other basket a large dinner plate of pancakes, each one the size of the plate and covered with butter, then spread with soft maple sugar, to make a pile at least six inches high. Father cut into them as you would a layer cake, each serving the width of a piece of pie and half the depth of the pile! Again they came back for more until the plate was clean Then we finished with a pot of tea and a jug of coffee. It was pretty hard for the men to move very swiftly after such a supper. I think I had two helpings of the pancakes. But by dark the three stacks of hay were finished, the poles were placed on them and we were ready for home. Is it any wonder that the memory of that day and that supper has been with me all these years? From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings In Lyn the cheese factory was located at the foot of the Jarvis Hill, just across the creek from the tan-bark field where they used to play ball. One road led around the corner at the hotel (Stacks), down the mill hill, across a little bridge and along the ban of the creek. The other road turned at the schoolhouse, down the Jarvis hill, past the old barn and on to the factory. At first Father had made a cart with the two wheels of the old wooden horse rake, a wooden axle and long shafts running back to about the back of the wheels. A platform of boards was nailed to the shafts, and the springs taken from an old army wagon, and secured in the centre on the axle and the ends fastened underneath the shafts. For a seat an abandoned bee-hive was used, cleats were nailed on the inside and a loose board laid in. When I got groceries at the store, I could just lift up the board and drop the parcels into the box. There was room on the platform for only one large milk can, which was all that was needed at that time. The horse I was given to drive was one that was hard to make trot, for just as soon as she was stirred up a bit she would break into a canter, with the result that the shafts were bobbing up and down and your neck would get sore trying to keep your head steady. One morning going through the village I had my sister Lou along, and as we went past the post office the horse was doing the regular canter but with not much speed. As I came back up into the village and stopped for the mail, the constable, Tom Hudson, came over to the cart and said “My boy, if I see you going through the village as you went this morning, I will take you to jail!” So I always watched after that for Mr. Hudson. It was fun to see the milk wagons coming along the gravel pit road, and then hurry along and up around the school-house and down the Jarvis hill, and to get in ahead of them at the factory. But one morning as I was going around that way, I saw ahead of me down near the foot of the hill another milk cart. The driver Bob King had been to the factory and unloaded his milk, and had gone up to the village for some bread, and was returning to the factory to get his whey, as he had come in on the gravel pit road. Hurrying along down the hill I yelled to the driver to get out of my way but he did not have time, and as I went by him the hub of my wheel caught the rim of his wheel and tipped his cart over on its side. I drove on down to the factory and got in line, then went back to help the lad whose cart I had tipped over. I do not think I have ever heard anyone use as many cuss words as he did that morning! I dare not go near him, but held the horse by the head while he straightened the cart up. For several days I kept out of his way. The next year my father secured a spring wagon, took the box off and built a platform with room for three or four cans. I had been cautioned to drive carefully, as I was drawing a neighbour’s milk also. For some time I did very well, but one morning on arriving opposite the town pump a big load of milk came down the hill from Seeley’s and on to the main road ahead of me. This was too much! I stirred up my horse and caught up to the load, and was passing just before we came to the hotel on the corner when I was crowded to the sidewalk with both the front and hind wheels on the walk. As we neared the corner the road was lower and the wagon began to tip, with the result that it finally went over on its side and the cans fell to the ground. Fortunately the neighbour’s milk can went clear over and finally landed right end up, so that very little milk was lost from it. One of our own cans that had a very tight cover did the same, but the third can landed on its side and nearly all of its contents poured on to the ground. Of course a crowd arrived on the scene at once and the wagon was righted. I watched for the constable, but he was not up yet, so I did not go to jail. However, I had to draw our neighbour’s milk nearly all summer for nothing, to pay Father for the can I had spilled. From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings The only log canoe that I can remember appeared first on the Lyn pond. An Indian had brought it down from the back lakes, portaging it from back of Temperance Lake, through the canals, over the dams, and finally pulled it up on the shore behind the Lyn post office. He later traded in the village for groceries, and one day when in the village the grocer asked me whether I would like to buy it. This I did, and drew it home to the farm on the milk wagon. As it was late in the fall I did not have a chance to try it our, but that winter I scraped and sandpapered the outside of the canoe. In the spring my mother gave me a collection of paint cans, each containing a small quantity of paint, which I poured all together and stirred well. The resulting colour did not prove very attractive, being a pinkish yellow. However, with great care I puttied all the cracks, then applied the paint, giving it two coats. I saved a small quantity of red paint and this I used to mark a band along the top edge. On the bow I painted the name “Daisy”, and it was ready for the water. One day when father was away I hitched the grey mare to the stone boat, loaded the canoe on and started to lead the horse down the hill to the creek. I had not put a bridle on her but was just leading her by the halter. As we went down around by the barn she got a glimpse of the canoe behind her, and started to run. I hung on as long as I could but finally had to let her go. She ran along the edge of the gravel pit and the canoe rolled off and over and over to the bottom of the hill. I finally caught the mare and got her back in the stable, then went down to examine my canoe. On its was down the hill it had struck a boulder which had opened up a crack in the bottom. Securing more putty I wedged and plastered the break as best I could, but had to wait for the putty to dry. When all was ready I dragged my canoe into the water and tried it. It did not leak very much, and another application of putty completed the job. Anyone who has never tried to keep a log cane right side up would be surprised how easily it tips over; I got wet several times before mastering the art of paddling. I suggest that if you want to try you should get on a floating log, put your feet in the proper position sit down and see how long you can balance yourself ! We had a lot of fun that summer with the canoe. We could go swimming, get into the canoe, one of us at each end and then try to tip it over by leaning over the edge, the other boy leaning the opposite way, then the first one would straighten up and over would go the canoe before the other boy would have time to save himself, both usually getting wet. That summer a few families of Indians came to the neighbourhood to pick strawberries for the farmers, one group living in the little house on our farm. One Sunday two young squaws from the house decided to go for a boat ride. One of them was soon to be married and had bought muslin for a dress. Mother had cut it out and sewed it on our machine, and it looked very neat on the Indian girl, but of course she must put it on for the trip in the canoe. There was only one paddle, and as we sat on the hill watching them, the girl with the paddle put the end of it towards the shore to push the canoe out; the end of it stuck in the mud and as she pulled to release it , it came loose sooner than she expected. Over the canoe went ! They were a sorry looking pair of squaws as they got on their feet and waded to shore, their long black hair hanging about their faces and down their shoulders ! They never tried the canoe again, and in a week or two went back to their homes in St. Regis. The log canoe proved the source of a lot of fun that summer, and many children of the neighbourhood learned to handle it, which was of some benefit to them when later they paddled the lighter cedar canoes manufactured in the factories. I do not remember what became of my canoe, but think it broke away and ws dashed to pieces by the flooded stream later that fall when it was carried down the lower rapids. The original 1861-62 map was a large paper on cloth wall map showing all the townships I Leeds and Grenville County. We so happen to have one of these large maps in the museum. However in 1973 Mika Publishing in Belleville reproduced these maps by township in a book called: Historical Atlas of Leeds & Grenville, Ontario” Also included in this book are excerpts and illustrations from Thad. Leavitt’s book “History of Leeds and Grenville from 1749 to 1879” published in 1879. We have reproduced a full view of this map, along with smaller sections of the map The original 1861-62 map was a large paper on cloth wall map showing all the townships I Leeds and Grenville County. We so happen to have one of these large maps in the museum. However in 1973 Mika Publishing in Belleville reproduced these maps by township in a book called: Historical Atlas of Leeds & Grenville, Ontario” Also included in this book are excerpts and illustrations from Thad. Leavitt’s book “History of Leeds and Grenville from 1749 to 1879” published in 1879. We have shown an overview view of the map,and then individual sections. For Photos, Maps etc. look under the school name on our website AddisonSchool (School Section No. 21) There have been four schools in Addison. The first was built of logs and burned. Both the second and third schools[1] in Addison doubled as Episcopal and Methodist Churches. The second school was a stone building which stood beside the third, framed school. This school was moved to Benjamin Scott’s property and used as a horse stable. It was torn down in the early 1950’s. The third school is a frame building which was constructed in the early 1870’s. It continued to be the Addison School until the 1960’s. The building is now privately owned. In the 1820’s a log school was erected to replace the one room educational centre in the smithy. This building gave way to a stone school which served Addison for 90 years. Charles O.Stowell, who married the two daughters of John Ketchum, was born in Massechusetts February 17, 1797. Educated in the United States he came to Canada as a young man with a teaching certificate. In 1832 he took a teaching job at the old Addison school about 200 yards south of the old Perth Trail. This pioneer log school was later torn down and the school moved into the Methodist Church. When the Methodists build a new stone church on the other side of the road, now the Addison United Church, the old house of worship became a permanent school. This school served the community for 90 years until it became unfit for school purposes. It ended its days as a stable on the Scott Farm, where it eventually gave way to decay and collapsed. A wooden frame school replaced the stone structure and in the late 1960’s it was closed. The Addison School was listed as S.S.no. 21 School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Log building, 20×26 in size, constructed in 1850, condition: Good 1854: Stone building first opened in 1832 Bell’s School (School Section #24) Wolford Twp (School Section #16) Bell’s School was a shared school between Elizabethtown and Wolford Township. It was located on the Rocksprings Road and to the immediate east of the schoolhouse is the Bell’s Cemetery. There used to be a stone church in one corner of the emery, but all that remains now are a few foundation stones. “The school was built on land donated by James Bell who settled there with his family on or before the year 1831. The land for the school was purchased from S. Harper for £30 it was lot 13” (Recorder and Times article) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: no report 1854: Log building, first opened in 1838 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: To the Local Superintendent of schools for the Township of Elizabethtown. Pay to Mary B.Smith as ordered out of the school fund apportioned to School Section No. 24 in the Township of Elizabethtown the sum apportioned to said section (Signed and Sealed) Walter Bell and Richard Richards, Trustees-1871 BoltonSchool (School Section # 23) The old Bolton School once stool on the property of Henry White. The school once stood near the Bolton Cemetery on Lot 5 of the Tenth Concession in Elizabethtown. There were several Berry Families located near the school, and their children made up the larger part of the student body. The Bolton School was located in the hamlet of Shiloh. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: no report 1854: Log building, first opened in 1842 FairfieldEastSchool (School Section #8) The first school was a log cabin built on the west corner of the farm owned by McDougall’s. Johnathan Barr was the teacher and was noted for his stern and strict qualities. When the community became more settled it was found that the school was not central nor adequate enough so a second school was built about a mile and half farther west. This one also passed into history with the erection of a third, which was built a few rods [sic] east again and which is most up to date.[2] About 1865 a wooden frame school was built west of the McDougall farm and around 1900 the third Fairfield East School was erected. The school was phased out during the school consolidation of the 1960’s. (R&T Darling Collection Bk3) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Frame Building, size 20×24, no construction date, condition Good 1854: Log building, first opened in 1808 GlenBuellSchool (School Section # 16) “Peter Booth’ School 1842 Dr. John G.Booth’s eldest son was Peter Booth, born at the farm in 1825. In 1842 at the age of 17, he started teaching at the log school in Glen Buell. He had 63 children, ranging in age from 4 to 17, and received the magnificent salary of 2.5 pounds per month. Peter Booth died in 1860, of tuberculosis, leaving a wife and three young children. In 1842, and enthusiastic young buck, he wrote his first report to the district council: I beg leave to submit the enclosed report of the Common School at present under my instruction. The school house in which this school is taught is on the rear of Lot 31, in the 6th Concession of Elizabethtown on the Main Road leading from Brockville to Farmersville. All the pupils that have attended resided within two miles of the school house and there are probably from 16 to 20 children more living within that distance from the schoolhouse between the ages of 5 and 16 whose names are not on this report as they have not been in attendance. The school was commenced about the first pf April last, Teachers wages two pounds five shillings per month with the expectation that further aid would be granted from the public monies.” (from Lea Booth, John Booth, p54-55) [3] The original school was a small log schoolhouse constructed by Eri Hayes in the 1820’s. The school was closed in the spring of 1965 and pupils bused to either Addison or New Dublin depending on where they lived. Because of overcrowding at New Dublin a few years later, Glen Buell was re-opened for Grade 1 students for a short time. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Log Building, size 24×24, construction date 1837, condition Good 1854: Frame building, first opened in 1844 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That the request of the trustees of School Section No 16 be complied with that the sum of one hundred dollars be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section exclusive of expenses-1869 that the Trustees of School Section No 16 be paid the sum of $1 as non-collected school tax an that Lot 34 in the Seventh Concession of Elizabethtown and the Clerk order the sum to be paid to Boyd Hall-1870[4] GreenbushSchool (School Section No. 20) The first school in Greenbush was built of logs in 1835 on land donated by James Haskin. It burned in 1845 after only ten years of use. The second school, made of stone, was constructed on the same site in 1848. It was twice as large as the first. However it was torn down in 1918 in order to build a larger school. Construction of the brick building was completed within six months, In 1905 the school grounds were enlarged, trees were planted and a fence erected. The land for the extension was purchased from Thomas Webster. While construction was underway in 1918 classes were held in the United Church Hall. Between 1845 and 1848 classes were held above the store at Millhouse and in one of William Olds’ houses. The first teacher on record is Miss. Sarah Taggart in 1840. She was followed by Miss. Lucinda Keller who received $5. per month. The school was phased out of the school system in 1965. [5] School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Log Building, size 26×24, construction date 1830, condition Good 1854: Brick building, first opened in 1849 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That Edward Davis be detached from school section no 18 and be attached to school section no 20-1858[6] Halleck’s School (School Section #5) On June 28, 1963 the school rang its’ bell for the last time. The teacher at the time was Mrs.Marion Ross, and she was the last person to teach at the little brick school house located on the Halleck’s Road. The 27 remaining pupils from this school are being transferred to the Lyn Public School. About 10 years prior there were 34 pupils in the school The original school was a log school house located in the north corner of the Halleck’s Road and No. 2 Highway. Rev. William Hallock built a school before 1810 which had a ready made class, what with 16 Coles, 13 Clows, 10 or 12 Fulfords and his own six children. The school was replaced by the present building in 1935, a trim neo-classical brick Edifice.[7] The brick school house was built further north on the Halleck’s Road around 1839. The land on which the present school was built was donated by Mr. Caleb Halloch (Squire Halloch) on May 12, 1838 and was built by Archibald Davidson a stone mason. A well was drilled for the new school in the 1930’s and toilets were installed around 1939. In the early 1940’s electricity was installed. Between 1886 and 1900 teachers salaries were from $220. to $300 per year. Heritage Elizabethtown erected a plaque near the original school recalling an incident that took place during the War of 1812. The plaque reads as follows: Hallock’s School and the ‘Underhill Incident’ “A one room school near here was the site of an international incident before the war of 1812. William Hallock (1770-1836), a Methodist preacher, established the school in a log cabin on his property. In 1809 the teacher was Isaac Underhill, an alleged American army deserter. On May 1, three American soldiers disembarked from a schooner on the St. Lawrence, seized Underhill at the school and dragged him, bound and gagged towards the river. When Underhill broke free and ran, his captors shot him from behind. They then fled to their boat with armed settlers in pursuit. Underhill died the next day. His murder was a flagrant violation of British sovereignty which outraged Canadians and lingered long on local memory” (Issac Underhill is said to be buried in an unmarked grave in the Fulford Cemetery) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Frame Building, size 24×34, construction date 1811, condition: Not Good 1854: Frame building, first opened in 1817 (this report combines SS #3 and 5) The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1872 That the union of School sections no 3 & 5 be dissolved and that all resolutions uniting the same be rendered the same as if said divisions ere never united at the request of a public meeting held for that purpose signed by Henry Clow, Chairman- 1858 that the Clerk be instructed to prepare a Bylaw to unite School Sections No.3 and No.5 into one section agreeable to the request of the rate payers of said sections- 1869 that the application of the Trustees of School Section No 5 be complied with and the sum of $200 be levied and collected on the Taxable property of said section exclusive of expenses -1872[8] Hawke’s School Sectional School No. 27 (Rear of Young SS # 11) There was a school in Glossville called “Hawke’s School. The school was so named because there were two group of Hawke’s children who attended the school in its early years. One Hawke farm was located north of the school the other farm to the south of the school. The school was sandwiched between the two farm families and filled with Hawke children. It was here that Glossville children were educated. The community sent its children to the old brick school long after people stopped using the name Glossville. After Hawke’s closed the children were bussed to Frankville or to Addison. Land for the school was donated to the area school board in 1857 by John Hawke, and it is probable that the stone building was erected within the following three years. Hawke’s School closed in 1962. The school was located at the junction of Hwy 29 and the Lake Eloida Road. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: no report 1854: first opened in 1830 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section- 1873[9] HowardSchool (School Section #6) On the 12th Day of October 1861, a parcel of land was purchased on which to build the Howard School. The indenture was between Andrew Donaldson and his wife Eliza and the School Section number 6 in the township of Elizabethtown, for a sum of sixty dollars. The parcel of land was described on the indenture as a part of the rear of the east half of Lot number twenty three in the Second Concession in the Township of Elizabethtown. In 1946 a well and pump were installed.[10] School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: no information except: condition: Not Good 1854: Frame building, first opened in 1850 Jellby (School Section # 22) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: No Report 1854: Stone building, first opened in 1826 Lillie’s School (S.S. No. 12 Elizabethtown) (S.S.No. 9 Front of Yonge) Lillie’s School was located at Lillie’s about five miles from Lyn on the Graham Lake Road. The original school was built of wood and located on the west corner of Hendry Road a quarter of a mile west of the new school. The wooden structure blew down in a wind storm. It was replaced by one made of brick in 1880. This school was 40 feet long by 30 feet wide and could accommodate 35 students. The new brick school was used up until school consolidation in the 1960’s. The school was closed in June 1963, and was demolished in 1988.[11] The school also served as a church and services were held there every two weeks on a Monday evening by Methodists Ministers from Lyn. One the first graduates of Lillie’s School was John Booth who became a provincial land surveyor and helped to survey the counties of Leeds and Grenville. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone Building, size 26×36, construction date 1845, condition: Poor 1854: Stone building, first opened in 1842 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1872 That $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section – 1873[12] LynSchool (School Section #7) The first school house was located in the centre of the village by the creek. It was abandoned for a newer one room brick school at the west end of the Village, across from the present building. It was in use until 1867 when it burned down. The growth of the village led to a new two story, four room stone school house being built across from the one room brick structure. The stone schoolhouse in Lyn was built in 1867 and served the children of the district until 1959/1960. “The classrooms were on the ground floor and the second floor boasted a small stage so that concerts and plays could take place. Parties and dances were held there too”[13] The Public School in Lyn was built in the year 1867. Although the first annual meeting of the school, on record, took place in 1876 there was undoubtedly meetings before that, as an entry in the old minute and account book shows that John Halliday was the Sect-Treasurer in 1871. The first annual meeting of School Section No 7 was held in the school hall Wed, Jan 12, 1876 at 10 o’clock. Mr. Norman Coleman was appointed chairman and R.S.Hudson Sect. The school has to date had 60 teachers. The first school fair was held about 1914 on the old “Tan Bark Flats” with entries of cooking, vegetables, fancy work and collections of butterflies and insects. (Suzanne Coke, 1944) [14] The “New” Lyn School opened its doors to 185 pupils on September 4, 1956. It was planned by architect Mr.Prus and built by contractor Mr.J.Saunders of Prescott for the cost of $92,000. Miss. Anna Hudson was the prince[al of this new school. As the enrolment of the school increased with the closing of the Howard and Halleck’s School, it was found necessary to add four more room sto the original six room building. The addition was completed and ready for use in September 1963. The enrolment then was 263 pupils. Still the number increased and by 1965 all those pupils residing on the Howard Road were transferred to the Tincap School. In June 1965 the enrolment was 295. On June 29th, 1967 Miss Anna Hudson retired as Principal , Mr.J.Tallmire of Brockville became the new principal. (Anna Hudson, 1967) [15] School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: no report only: condition: Good 1854: Brick building, first opened in 1850 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1872 that the trustees of Lyn School Section No 7 be paid the amount due said section on account of debentures and the clerk order the same to be paid- 1871[16] ManhardsSchool (School Section # 13) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone Building, size 18×24, construction date 1847, condition: Good 1854: Stone building, first opened in 1844 MarshallSchool (School Section No. 17- Elizabethtown) (SS # 3 – Augusta) Alt name Gosford School The first children of the area of Linden Bank went to school in a crude log building, but in 1869 the farmers of the area constructed what became to be known as Marshall School. The school was built out of stone on a low knoll on Gosford Road probably 100 yards off the North Augusta Road. After serving generations pf Linden Bank children the school was phased out by the school consolidation of the 1960’s. The school itself was built on land donated by the Marshall Family. Several families of Marshalls lived in the area, running their farms and contributing to community life. The school had rough wooden benches and desks. It had only one room, in which all the grades were taught. It was designated as Elizabethtown SS No. 17. A plague over the doorway gave the date of construction as 1869. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone Building, size 32×26, construction date 1848, condition: Good 1854: log building, first opened in 1844 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That the request of the trustees of School Section No 17 be complied with that the sum of three hundred and fifty dollars be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section exclusive of expenses-1869 that the Reeve be and is hereby authorised to notify according to law that portion of the Township formerly composed of Union School Section No 29, also School Section No 17 that the council intend to pass a Bylaw to attach the first named portion of the Township to School Section No 17 at the next sitting of the Council on the 4th of Oct next- 1871 that the Trustees of School Section No 17 be paid the sum of $200 dollars being part of the assessment on said Section for school purposes and the Clerk order the same to be paid-1873[17] Maud’s School (School Section No. 18) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone Building, size 28×38, construction date 1830, condition: Good 1854: Log building, first opened in 1819 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That Edward Davis be detached from school section no 18 and be attached to school section no 20-1858 That the request of the trustees of School Section No 18 be accepted and that the sum of $60. be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section for school purposes-1862 that the petition of the trustees of School Section No 18 be complied with and the sum of Thirty dollars be levied and collected on the assessed rateable property of said section free of all expenses for school purposes and paid to the trustees of said section- 1867 That the request of the trustees of School Section No 18 be complied with that the sum of sixty five dollars be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section exclusive of expenses-1869 that the application of the Trustees of School section No 18 be complied with and the sum of Eighty dollars be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section exclusive of expenses-1871 that the application of School Trustees Section No 18 be complied with and the sum of $100 dollars be levied and collected on the Taxable property of said section exclusive of expenses-1872[18] Meads Sectional School No. 14 School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Frame Building, construction date 1826, condition: Good 1854: Stone building, first opened in 1820 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that the sum of three dollars and fifty cents be paid to trustees of School Section No 14 of Elizabethtown as uncollectible and the clerk order the same to be paid Benjamin Frances 1873[19] MooresSchool (School Section #21) We have no additional information about this school. If anyone has any information or photos, we would appreciate hearing from you. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Log building, 20×26 in size, constructed in 1850, condition: Good 1854: Stone building first opened in 1832 New DublinSchool (School Section #15) The first school was built near Lamb’s Pond, almost across the road from the Ernest Kendrick farm, later owned by Donald Stewart. Later a school was built on the Horton Farm near the present school. No dates are know for the erection of either of these buildings. The second school was torn down and while the third school was being built pupils attended classes in the first Orange Hall, a frame building between the present school and the Methodist Church. The third New Dublin School was built in 1880. Annie Scott who taught in 1894 received $310. per year. [20] School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Log building, 20×24 in size, constructed in 1837, condition: Good 1854: Stone building first opened in 1813 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1872 That the sum of 21.50 pounds clear of all expenses be levied and collected on the rateable property of school section No 15.- 1862 that the application of the Trustees of School Section No 15 be complied with and the sum of $30 be levied and collected on the assessed taxable property of said School Section for School Purposes exclusive of expenses for the year 1869 that the application of the Trustees of School section No 15 be complied with and the sum of $115 be levied and collected on the assessed taxable property of said section exclusive of expenses for school purposes- 1871 that the application of the Trustees of School Section No 15 be complied with and the sum of $155 be levied and collected on the assessed taxable property of said Section exclusive of all expenses for the year 1872 PurvisStreetSchool (School Section # 8 Front of Yonge) The first school was a stone structure built in 1844. The children sat on wooden benches and in the winter these benches were placed around a box stove to keep the pupils warm. On May 12, 1890 the local ratepayer held a meeting and voted to build a new school. The school closed in June 29, 1967. The school was located west of Lyn. The pupils who attended this school will attend Caintown School until the new modern 12 room school is ready in Mallorytown. The present brick structure was built to replace a stone building which had been erected in 1844. On May 12, 1890 the ratepayers held a meeting and voted 11 to 9 in favour of building a new school. On June 16, 1890 the following resolution was passed “ The tender of George Aaron Purvis of Purvis Street to build a school similar to the one recently built near the Toll Gate on the Perth Road, at the rear of Brockville for the sum of $675.00 and use of the old material from the other school was accepted” The school referred to in this resolution nwas the Brick School on the Chemical Road. A plate bearing the date of the old school was transferred to the new one. The first teacher was Laura Clow (later Mrs.McCraken of Brockville) who received a salary of $225. Mr.Kenny was the inspector. The caretaker received $15. a year and hard maple wood was purchased for the box stove at $1.19 a cord. In 1891 William Young furnished the material and build a wood shed for $90. [21] The stone used in construction was from another school on the Chemical Road[22] Read’s School (School Section 2- Elizabethtown) (School Section 30 – Augusta) Read’s Public School, a log structure, was built in 1831 and served the community of Bethel for nearly 50 years until a stone building was erected in 1880 on the same plot of land. The land had originally been donated by UEL Pioneer Guy Carleton Read (1785-1849), The Read family gave their name to the school and the nearby Read’s cemetery which dates back to 1800. The original log school was also used by Methodist circuit riders for church services. Among the early teachers were Jehiel Collins, in the early 1800’s; William Garvey around 1820; John Walker 1854; Tom Henderson 1855; Catherine Wright 1858 and many others. The school was located in Bethel. (Recorder and Times, Darling Scrapbook Collection Book 3 pgs 17-29) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Frame building, 28×30 in size, constructed in 1810, condition: Good 1854: Stone building first opened in 1853 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that the request of the Trustees of School Section No 2 be complied with and that the sum of $160.00 clear of all expenses be levied and collected on the assessed rateable property of said school section for school purposes for the current year 1867 That the request of the trustees of School Section No 2 be complied with that the sum of two hundred dollars be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section exclusive of expenses- 1869 that the Clerk order the treasurer to pay the Trustees of School Section No 2 or their order the sum of $160 as part payment of the amount due said section- 1870 that the application of the Trustees of School section No 2 be complied with and the sum of Two hundred and forty dollars be levied and collected on the taxable property of said section exclusive of expenses-1871 that the application of School Trustees Section No 2 be complied with and the sum of $240 be levied and collected on the Taxable property of said section exclusive of expenses 1872[23] RedanSchool (School Section # 26 – Elizabethtown) (School Section #20 – Kitley) Redan was settled in the years 1840-1860 by Irish Immigrants. The original inhabitants were the Youngs, the Marshalls, Burnetts, Pritchards, Motts, Richards and Wilsons. The old Richardson homestead here was originally part of a clergy reserve. In 1854 the government released all clergy reserve land to the public and the Richard family took a 100 acre plot in the centre of this community. Redan School was located a short distance from the Mott homestead. The original schoolhouse was a log structure located near the junction of the Rocksprings and Redan roads. The site is now covered by a swamp. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: no report 1854: Frame building The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That the request of the trustees of school section no 26 be excepted and that the sum of $125. be levied and collected on the rateable property for the current year 1862- 1862 that the application of the Trustees of School section No 26 be complied with and the sum of $80 be levied and collected on the rateable property of said School Section exclusive of all expenses-1871 that the application of the Trustees of School Section No 26 be complied with and the sum of $80 dollars be levied and collected on the Taxable property of said section exclusive of expenses-1872 that $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section-1873[24] RockSchool The new Rock School, which stands today as a home, was built in 1937. The school was built of native granite quarried a few yards distant from the school. This new school is located on Hwy 2 west of Brockville, and west of Oakland Cemetery. It is regarded as a model rural public school with accommodations for over 30 pupils, indoor toilets, two cloak rooms, a teacher’s room, store room and a basement playroom. The original Rock School was built in 1844, and stood to the west of the present site. Prior to this stone school and earlier log school stood on the bank of Grants Creek further east of the present location. Rock SpringsSchool (School Section #25 – Elizabethtown) (School Section # 19 – Kitley) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: no report 1854: no report Rowes Corners (School Section # 4) School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Frame building, constructed in 1832, condition: Good 1854: Stone building first opened in 1846 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That the sum of $73. clear of all expenses be levied and collected on the rateable property of school section No 4.-1862 that the application of the trustees of School Section No 4 be received and laid over for further consideration- 1868 that the Trustees of School Section No 4 of Elizabethtown be paid to Samuel McNish agreeable to the request of the Trustees of said Section- 1871 To the Municipal Council of the Township of Elizabethtown in Council assembled, Gentlemen, Please pay Samuel McNish the sum due School Section No 4 of Elizabethtown, signed Sidney Easton and Cyrus Wright- 1871 that James Daniels and John Daniels be relieved from paying School Tax to School Section No 4 amounting to $6.66 cents as said Daniels belong to the Separate School in Brockville and the collector get a copy of this motion- 1872[25] Seeley’s School (School Section #10) The original school building made of stone was built in 1849. The second building was built of brick in 1889, the brick school burned one cold winter’s day on January 26, 1957. Only the bell in the belfry and one baseball bat in the basement were saved. Seeley’s School was built across from North Star Farms at Seeley’s Corners. There were 17 students in the last class at the school in 1957. The growth of the settlement at Seeley’s necessitated the building of a school. In 1849 one was built on the corner of Sawmill Road and that leading to Leetuck, or Lee Road on the farm of Thomas Booth. This location was on the 6 acres purchased by Alexander Stewart. In 1889 the school became crowded and John W. Stewart, rather than have the new one so near his own dellings gave anther lot $50 and drew the bricks from one lot to the other. The first teacher of the new school was Homer Moore. On Sunday January 26, 1957 the building was destroyed by fire. The last teacher was Mrs. Allan Stewart and she and her twenty pupils’ were transported to the Old Lyn Public School. Starting the following September the pupils went to the new Lyn School then to the New Dublin School. (Mrs. Allan Stewart 1967) [26] A teacher’s yearly salary in 1862 was sixty dollars. The original building was probably a one room log building. Old School Victim of Sunday Fire. A venerable brick building built in 1889 was complete. It destroyed by fire of unknown origins. The school had a capacity for 33 pupils, however at the end it had 20 students. Mrs. Alvin Gardiner, residing nearby spotted the fire about 1:10pm. Brockville Fire Department was called, but before the men could receive permission to make the trip, a second call was received stating that nothing could be done to save the building. There was no water supply and the nearby creek was frozen solid. The school was a sturdy building that served the community well during the past 68 years. The building was about 40 feet long and 30 feet wide, it had been the means of education for generations of district youngsters. The current students would be bused by Stewart’s bus lines to the Lyn School. [27] School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Frame building, constructed in 1810, condition: Not Good 1854: Stone building first opened in 1809 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that the application of the Trustees of School Section No 10 be complied with and the sum of Two Hundred Dollars be levied and collected on the assessed Taxable Property of said section exclusive of expenses for School Purposes[28] SherwoodSpringsSchool (School Sectional #3 Elizabethtown) (School Sectional # 1 Front of Yonge) The first school building was made of logs and located on the west side of Sherwood Springs Road, near the site of Jim Eligh’s brick house. It started in 1851, but not opened until January 3, 1854. The second school structure was a framed building built on the north side of Hwy 2 across from where Sherwood Springs Rd. now meets Hwy 2. This building was purchased by Fred Latham and moved down to the opposite side of the road and a second story was added.[29] The third school was located on Hwy 2, where Woodland Park Zoo was built after the school closed. The school built in 1907 was closed in 1956 with an enrolment of 20 students. The original school which closed in 1906 was located in a white house at Latham’s Corners, Susie Doolan was the first teacher. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone building, 30×36 in size, constructed in 1844, condition: Good 1854: report combined with SS#5 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That the union of School sections no 3 & 5 be dissolved and that all resolutions uniting the same be rendered the same as if said divisions ere never united at the request of a public meeting held for that purpose signed by Henry Clow, Chairman- 1858 Annual school meeting of School Section No 3 of the freeholders and householders of said section, acceptance of financial report; that we have a free school this year; that Wm Clow & Mr.S.Fulford be auditors for the ensuing year; that one chord of wood be delivered at the school house and cut by each scholar that the teacher measure the wood and if it falls short that the person who brought it shall bring another chord; that the persons who send children to school shall board the teacher- 1862 That the petition of the trustees of School Section No 3 be complied with and that the sum of $140. clear of expenses be levied and collected on the rateable property of said school section for school purposes for the currant year 1865 that the Clerk be instructed to prepare a Bylaw to unite School Sections No.3 and No.5 into one section agreeable to the request of the rate payers of said sections- 1869 that the application of the Trustees of School section No.3 be complied with and the sum of $18 be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section exclusive of expenses – 1869 that the Trustees of School Section No 3 be paid the sum of $240 the amount levied on said section for School purposes and the Clerk order the said amount to be paid to William Wilson-1873[30] Spring ValleySchool (School Section #11) Spring Valley School was first located at the corner of W.E.Stewarts field to the left of Ruben Davis’ driveway. The original school was an unpainted frame building, that got so old that it could no longer be kept warm in winter. In 1878 the present school was completed farther down the road and opened in September of that year. The foundation for this school was laid in 1877. The land was donated by Frank McCrae on condition that the building be used for both school and church purposes. The first contract to build the new school was not completed and later Harvey Hayes took the contract and hired James Davidson to do the work. Miss Jennie Grant was the first teacher in 1878. The first gathering in the school was a church service on Sunday conducted by Rev.Mr.Blair who was the Pastor of the Lyn Circuit. The enrolment of the school in 1950 was 18 pupils, in 1902 it was 27. (the original name of Spring Valley was Niblock’s Corners) The school had it’s last class on June 29, 1965, students were then bussed to the new school at New Dublin. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone building, 22×28 in size, constructed in 1843, condition: Not Good 1854: Frame building first opened in 1816 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That the sum of 20 pounds clear of all expenses be levied and collected on the rateable property of school section No 11.- 1862 Adiel Sherwood inherited Lots 1 & 2 on the death of his father in 1826, and four years later sold Lot 1 to Henry Bradfield, a stone mason. Bradfield who lived here for 50 years also donated land for a school in 1860 (S.S.#1) on the Highway. [32] School Superintendents Report for 1854 shows that the school was made of stone and opened in 1860[33] School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone building, 20×26 in size, constructed in 1844, condition: Good 1854: Stone building first opened in 1860 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: That the request of the trustees of Union School section No 1 in Elizabethtown and No 1 in the Twp of Augusta be completed and the sum of 90 pounds be levied and collected on that property 1862 that the trustees of School Section No. 1 be paid the sum of $0.67 cts as School tax on 12 acres of land on part Lots 7&8 in the 1st concession of Elizabethtown assessed to William Holms and the clerk order the same to be paid 1870 that the application of the trustees of School Section No 1 be complied with and the sum of $100 be levied and collected on the assessed taxable property of School Section No 1 of the Township of Elizabethtown for school purposes free from all expenses for the year 1870 that the application of the Trustees of School section No 1 be complied with and the sum of $150 be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section exclusive of expenses 1871 that the Trustees of School Section No 1 be paid the sum of $52.82 as balance of the amount levied and collected in said Section for school purposes and the clerk give an order for the same- 1872 that the application of trustees of school section No 1 Elizabethtown be complied with and the sum of $150 be levied and collected and the rateable property of said section for school purposes exclusive of expenses- 1872 that the Trustees of School No 1 be paid the sum of $150 dollars being the amount levied on said section for School purposes and the Clerk order the sae to be paid to Alexander Miller- 1873 that $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section- 1873 that the Trustees of School Section No 1 be paid the sum of $150 dollars being payment of the amount collected on said section for school purposes and the Clerk order the same to be paid to the Trustees[34] – 1873 TinCapSchool (School Section #9) The unique name of Tincap was given to the community by some early settlers because the old stone schoolhouse boasted a cupola with a tincap, and as this was the only building of note, Tincap seemed a very suggestive name. The school was burned about 1894, classes were then held for a short time in a stone house owned by Mr.M. O’Donnell. A new frame building was built, it was equipped with a tin cap and bell, to keep this school linked to the original. The first teacher in the new school was Miss. Susie Hanna of Lyn. Here is an excerpt from Alvyn Austin in his unpublished 2000 book “ The History of Elizabeth Township” The Tin Cap- “ Another more fanciful version is that Breakenridge furnished the militia with ‘tin caps’ during the war of 1812 and placed one on the school cupola, which sparkled in the sun and could be seen for miles. The log schoolhouse was replaced by stone in 1850, which burned in 1894; the present school (the 4th) has a replica of the famous “Tin Cap” in its foyer” School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Stone building, constructed in 1844, condition: Good 1854: Frame building first opened in 1800 TincapSchool New Building The new all brick structure was opened on Monday November 7th, 1960. The school continued as a complete grade 1-8 until 1972. At that point the older grades were transferred to Lyn School, and Tincap remained as JK to grade ?, Until it’s final closure in 2005. YongeMillsSchool (School Section #28 – Elizbethtown) (School Section # 2 & 3 – Front of Yonge) The Yonge Mills School house is located on the Yonge Mills Road, some 3 ½ miles west of the village of Lyn. On September 26th 1874 a ¾ acre lot was severed from the land owned by Mr. Griffin and Phillips and transferred to the Trustees of the Public School Section. The school opened in 1874 and was in use until its closure in 1968. The school was built from stone and similar to others built around the same time period. In 1954/55 a wall was erected across the room so that the lower level students could be taught by a second teacher. In 1960 a well was dug and a furnace room added. Prior to 1960 the school was without running water and each day a student had to carry a bucket of water from Gardiner’s across the road to the school. The lavatory was divided with the teacher’s in the centre and two on either side for the boys and girls. The first school in Yonge Mills was a wooden structure located on the corner of Devil’s Door Road and County Road 27, opposite Yonge Mills Church. The second school was a brick structure which held classes from 1859 to 1874. The third school was a stone structure built in 1874 and was open until June 1968. In 1956 the enrolment of the school was over 50 pupils. [35] This was a Union School Section some of the pupils coming from Elizabethtown Township and some from Front of Yonge Township. School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: No Report 1854: No Report The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section[36] Name Unknown (Moores ??) Sectional School No. 19 School Superintendents Report (Ontario Archives) Shows the following information, which in some cases contradicts what we have already researched, and contradicts other filed School Superintendents Reports: 1850: Log building, 22×28 in size, constructed in 1836, condition: Good 1854: No Report The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: introduce a Bylaw to set forth and establish the Boundaries of School Section No 19- Elizabethtown that said by law do now pass and be entitled ByLaw to set forth and establish the Boundaries of School Section no 19- Elizabethtown That payment of 7 pounds be given to Peter Buell Section Treasurer of School Section no 19 as uncollected and non resident tax for that section That the sum of $175. clear of all expenses be levied and collected on the rateable property of school section No 19. that the clerk be authorized to communicate with the Chief Superintendent of Schools respecting voucher for ten pounds of school moneys for school section No 19 in Elizabethton for the year 1860 to inform him if he received such voucher and if the money is available That Stephen Scott treasurer be authorized to retain $8.13 from the ten pounds revenue from the Chief Super indent of Education and apply it to school purposes ten pounds being moneys paid for school purposes for school section no 19 out of the funds of this municipality in 1862 that the request of the trustee of school section No 19 be complied with and the sum of sixty dollars clear of all expenses be collected of the assessed house holders and free holders of said section for current year 1867 that the application of the Trustees of school Section No 19 be compiled with and the sum of $160. be levied and collected on the rateable property of said section free of all expense that the Clerk order the treasurer to pay the Trustees of School Section No 19 or their order the sum of $160 as part payment of the amount due said section that the Trustees of School Section No 19 be paid the balance of assessment due said section and the clerk order the sum to be paid the William Stafford that the sum of $150 be levied and collected on the rateable property of School Section No 19 for school expenses agreeable to the request of the Trustees of said Section exclusive of expenses that the Prayer of the Petition Wm Mott and others be complied with and that rear part of Lot No 9 in the first concession of the Township of Elizabethtown from the corporation of the Town of Brockville back to the Second Concession in said Township be detached from School Section No 32 and attached to School Section No 19 is said Township that the Trustees of School Section No 19 be paid the sum of $52.31 cents being balance of assessment and such section and the clerk order the same to be paid Charles Wesley ? ? Of said section[37] Brockville Schools Sectional School No. 29 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that the Reeve be and is hereby authorised to notify according to law that portion of the Township formerly composed of Union School Section No 29, also School Section No 17 that the council intend to pass a Bylaw to attach the first named portion of the Township to School Section No 17 at the next sitting of the Council on the 4th of Oct next 1871 that $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section[38] 1873 Name Unknown Sectional School No. 30 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section- 1873 [39] Name Unknown Sectional School No. 31 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that $36 dollars of Clergy money be divided amongst the School Sections of this Township in the following manner, namely Sections No 1 $10, No 12 $5, No 26 $9, No 27 $9.31 cents, No 28 $5, No 29 $2, No 30 $5, No 31 $6 bring union section all the full Sections will leave the sum of $13.11 cents each and the Clerk ? the sum to be paid to the Trustees of each School Section- 1873[40] Name Unknown Sectional School No. 32 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that the Prayer of the Petition Wm Mott and others be complied with and that rear part of Lot No 9 in the first concession of the Township of Elizabethtown from the corporation of the Town of Brockville back to the Second Concession in said Township be detached from School Section No 32 and attached to School Section No 19 is said Township-1871[41] Name Unknown Sectional School No. 33 The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: that the application of school trustees of School Section No33 in the township of Elizabethtown be complied with and that the sum of seventy five dollars be levied and collected on the taxable property of said section for school purposes exclusive of expenses for the year 1873 that the Clerk be and he is hereby authorized to correct the assessment of school Sect No 33 by adding the assessment of Joseph Miller, John B.Moor and Ruben Per to said Section-1873[42] SheldonSchool Reference Notes: The following information was extracted from the motion papers of the Elizabethtown Council 1855-1873: (Petition) To the Honourable Council in New Dublin Assembled; The humble petition of the undersigned most humbly requests that your honourable body will be pleased to grant a sum of money on road section leading from the town line of Kitley to Johnston School House partly between Lots No twenty one and twenty two in the eleventh concession of Elizabethtown the ? obstruction is a steep precipice which is very injurious to the traveling community for which your petitioners shall as in duty bound for ever pray (signed) Bouf W Tackaberry, ?, Joseph Portes, Jacob Smith, S,Johnston. John Humpres-1854 that the clerk be authorized to prepare a Bylaw to Divide the township of Elizabethtown into two Electoral Divisions for elections purposes the first division to be five front concessions and the poling place to be at the Stone School house near the tin cap in the third concession of said township and the second division to consist of the six read concessions of said township and the poling place to be at the town hall at Dublin Corners-1866 that the request of the Trustees of School Section No ? be complied with and that the sum of $85.00 free of all expenses be levied and collected on the assessed rateable property of said school section for school purposes for the current year-1867 [1] Greenbush and Addison Villages a look at the history and homes by Karen Clout BA pub 1994 [2] The Recorder & Times Apr 11, 1927 “ Fairfield and its Pioneers by Mrs. H.E.Pyke [3] The History of Elizabethtown Township, by Alvyn Austin unpublished 2002 From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings It was nearly the end of July 1881. The hay crop had been all taken care of when Father and Mother decided to take a holiday and drive to Gananoque, a town about thirty miles west, to visit her sister. It was a three hour trip with horse and carriage, and was undertaken only about once a year. When returning they had brought with them a cousin, Vernon Taylor, a boy about my own age. As usual, the creek was the great attraction. A raft which I had constructed a few weeks previously was anchored in the shallow water, and next afternoon we played around with it for quite a while. Then we decided to build a wharf to moor the raft to it. Securing an axe from the barn we sharpened the end of a couple of sticks and drove them into the bed of the creek a couple of feet from the bank, put a board on its edge from one stake to the other and secured it with some stones. Next we took the raft, paddled it up the creek to a spot where a heavy bank of sods hung down to the water, the earth underneath having been washed away by the spring floods. We could break off a chunk, put it on the raft and continue till we had a load, then shove them to our wharf, pile them like stones on one another until we had a solid foundation above the water level. The day was warm and sunny. Since I had been in the water nearly every day, I had a pretty good tan. My cousin, although he had to wear a bathing suit at home, also had a fairly brown skin, but as we were playing in a secluded part of the creek, we decided he also would not wear his suit; therefore before the end of the afternoon he had acquired a pretty good sunburn. Finally at the call for supper we climbed the hill to the house and soon afterwards were in bed. Next day was a holiday. The Farmers’ Picnic was to be held at St. Lawrence Park, a short distance west of the Brockville cemetery. My cousin had complained in the morning of being uncomfortable from the sunburn he had received the day before, but went with us to the picnic. Tablecloths were spread on the grass under the trees, and dinner was served, everyone sitting around tailor fashion and enjoying the many good things from the lunch baskets, all but my cousin, who protested he did not care to sit, but leaned against a tree to eat his lunch. In the afternoon there were swimming races, boat races, and a lot of other fun, but Vernon would not even get in a boat, as it hurt him to sit down, he said. It was a wonderful afternoon. The men got a long rope; choosing sides till twelve men were selected for each team and then had a tug of war. It was a great day, but to soon we were loaded onto the wagons, all but the big boys and girls who were staying for the evening to enjoy a dance at the pavilion. Next morning my cousin’s sunburn was hurting terribly and he had me examine him to see what was causing the trouble. When I found two water blisters nearly as large as his hand, I understood why he preferred to eat his lunch standing up the day before. While we were playing around the yard one of us suggested we have a tug of war, the same as they had had at the picnic, but as there was no one to take hold of the rope we had found in the shed we tied one end to the top of the lath fence at the side of the house. Then we took hold of the other end and started pulling. My cousin was behind me and as the laths would bend we would brace ourselves and give another pull, the same as the men did….. Unfortunately, there was a limit to the strength of the laths, and all at once they broke and we sat down in the driveway, my cousin giving out a horrible yell as he struck the ground. The blisters had broken! In a couple of hours he felt quite comfortable, but after that he always wore his bathing suit when we went out on the raft. For information on St. Lawrence Park look under Along Hwy 2, St. Lawrence Park on this website Butternut Bay is located at the very western edge of Elizabethtown Township in the First Concession along the banks of the St. Lawrence River. In Thad. W.H. Leavitt’s book “History of Leeds and Grenville” published in 1879 he writes the following about Butternut Bay: (It was originally called “St. Lawrence Central Camp Ground” “This beautiful and healthful summer resort and Camp Meeting Ground, is situate on a high bluff of the St. Lawrence, in the first Concession of the Township of Elizabethtown. The ground is admirably located, commanding a fine view of the majestic river. Nature has done much to make the spot a coveted summer retreat. The grounds, embracing some twenty-five acres, are finely wooded, being in that respect superior to the Parks located on Well’s Island. To the untiring exertion of the Rev. A.D. Traveller, assisted by other ministers, is fue the honor of having established the first permanent Park upon the Canadian side of the river. In 1875, the land was purchased and is now held and controlled by the Bay of Quinte Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. A spacious Tabernacle, a Boarding House and about thirty beautiful Cottages have been erected, and others are in the process of completion. Two sessions of religious services are held each year, one in June and the other in September. Among the contemplated improvements is the establishment of a Telegraph Office, a Post Office and a Custom’s Office. At the close of the season (1878), six series of religious meetings had been held upon the grounds. It certainly is not asking too much of Canadians to expect them to cordially assist the undertaking. The Park is only three and a half miles from Brockville, with which it is in constant communication through the medium of a comfortable steamer, during the sessions of religious service. A special feature of attraction is the establishment of a Sunday School Parliament, which assembles annually during the June Session. The price of lots has been placed very low, to enable all classes to secure a summer home, the intention being to make the Park not only a Camp Ground but also a permanent place of residence during the summer months.” In Alvyn Austin’s book “Elizabethtown: The Last of the Royal Townships” pub 2009 we learn the following about The St. Lawrence Campground (Butternut Bay). “Rev. A.D. Traveller, the minister of George Street Methodist Episcopal church in Brockville, bought 25 acres of Jessup’s Tract in 1875, a bluff surrounding a little bay in the river. He planned a religious campground like the famous Chautauga, with lectures and music in addition to the religious sermons. There were several religious campgrounds on the American side, at Morristown and Wellesley Island, larger and more urban than Butternut, as well as further afield like Old Orchard Beach, Maine. There were only in Ontario, the St. Lawrence Campground and Grimsby, which has disappeared. The Camp meetings promoted a teaching called Holiness, an important evangelical doctrine which permeated Canadian churches into the 20th century. Holiness teachings (also called Entire Sanctification by John Wesley) stated that believers could by conscious diligence live without sin. Moreover they should expect an intense religious experience, a “Second conversion”, in secular terms ‘regeneration’, and thereafter would live the Higher (or Deeper) Life, free from sin. The best place to induce this emotional fervour was a ‘primitive’ woodland setting, ‘a grove of trees to shade the worshippers, log seats, an elevated stand for the preachers, tents, a spring of clean water, burning pine knots for light, and a way of dealing with rowdies and liquor sellers’ At first the people lived in tents, and the meetings were held under a large marquee ‘tabernacle’. The land was surveyed into lots 30 by 40 feet, and leased to church members for $10. for a tent lot and $25. for a cottage lot “and an annual rental of one peppercorn, for a period of 999 years. The building committee set a standard design for the cottages, a small farm house ornamented with a square, mansard-roofed tower and deep overhanging gingerbread, far out of scale with the house. A frame tabernacle, a post office and telegraph, general store and custom’s house were added. One advertisement enticed prospective buyers with “good lodging, abundant and healthful food, beautiful lots for those who wish to pitch tents or erect cottages, wide streets, broad parks and a fresh water ocean, well stocked with fish, boats, good society, and the very noblest of intellectual and religious entertainment.” The following are excerpts from a booklet published in 2006 “Butternut Bay a Treasured Summer community” by Dr. Reginald Anderson and Bob Anderson: The ‘Cliff Chateau Hotel’ The original hotel was built in 1885 and was destroyed in the windstorm of 1888. It was rebuilt in 1889 by Mr. M.B.Slack of Lyn and was known as the Cliff Chateau. It extended along the front of the adjacent woods, facing the river. There is no record to tell when the last guests were accommodated but apparently the hotel was still in operation in the 1920’s. A brochure for the hotel reads as follows: The Cliff Chateau- This spacious hotel is situated in a beautiful park, known as Butternut Bay, about six miles above the City of Brockville, on the St. Lawrence River, at the beginning of the Thousand Islands. The hotel is built on a cliff, 75 feet above the river and 50 feet from t, commanding an excellent view of the St. Lawrence in all directions and making it the coolest summer resort on the river. It has been thoroughly renovated and contains large, airy double and single rooms. Spacious upper and lower verandahs. Good home cooking, particularly homemade bread. Cliff Chateau can be reached from Brockville by the Str. Missisquoi on Mondays and Fridays, leaving Mather’s wharf at 1 PM, giving you half and hour’s beautiful sail through some o0f the islands landing at Butternut Bay, three minutes walk from the hotel or any day by conveyance of auto, cab or motor boat. Excellent boating, safe bathing, good fishing, tennis lawn, telephone, daily mail. This hotel opens June 20 and closes October 1st. Rates of the Cliff Chateau 2 persons in a room- $20. to $28. per week 1 person in a room- $10, $12 and $15 per week Reduced rate for children occupying Parent’s or Nurses’ Room Rate by the day $2.50, single meals, 75¢ Thos. C. Kemp, Prop. and Mgr. RR #3, Brockville, Ont. Because of very poor roads and unreliable early model automobiles, except for the last year of two of its operation, all the hotel guests would have arrived by steamship. (The S.S. Brockville was still bringing cottagers to Butternut Bay as late as 1920) One wonders about staying at the hotel in September, noting October 1st as the closing date. The weather can be chilly in September and it is difficult to visualize how the “Large airy rooms” could have been heated. It is interesting to recall that in the early 1920’s there still remained an indication of the lawn tennis court in front of the hotel. The following photos are undated, but will give you some idea of what Butternut used to look like: From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings Our old farm house was situated on the south side of the Lyn road. It had been re-modelled about the year 1871, and with lots of apple trees around it was a very pleasant spot to be brought up in. South of the house and on the side hill were the barns; the hill below was quite steep, ending with the sandpits that dropped away sharply to the creek. To stand near the house and look south across the valley was always a pleasure, and in the spring to the east of the barns you could hear the roar of the falls a quarter of a mile away. The water flowing down and across the flat below the sandpits was always cool, as Father said it was fed from the springs away below the gravel pit bordering its banks; and at one spot where there was a bend, our swimming hole was located. It was the mecca for all the boys, and in the summer evenings you could run down the hill hide your clothes behind a bush, and for a half hour enjoy the clean fresh feeling of a good swim. Then, putting on only what was necessary, you made your way to the house, and with fresh clothing you were ready for anything. Sunday morning was usually the time that more of the boys gathered for a cooling dip. We always tried to get down there first, as we had to hurry to be ready for church, but a lot of the boys who had other views regarding this spent an hour or two in the water. There was always another reason why we wanted to have our swim first; if these boys arrived before you were dressed, a handful of mud or sand tossed your way hit you with a splash and sent you back in to clean up again. But the tough guy who started this was usually the last one to get dressed, as repeated attempts were usually failures, and finally you saw him race over to where his clothes were, grab them and run for the woods, where nettles were most abundant. It was a great spot in the spring when the snow was melting. The stream always overflowed its banks, and driftwood, pieces of boards, and fence rails were salvaged, pulled back from the shore and later were made into a raft. The pieces of boards we nailed crosswise with some nails we had secured from where an old barn had been torn down. These nails were nearly all made by hand and hammered out square, and the ends pounded to a point, with the head left a bit larger. It was not known when this barn had been built and no one could remember when it had ever been used. The stream or creek, above our lot rambled and twisted its way for a quarter of a mile through the woods, having tumbled its waters over the falls, that at one time furnished power for a mill located below and at one side of the narrow flume. The flume had been cut through solid rock with the help of hand drills, blasting powder and chisel. In our boyhood it was a great place to spend an afternoon, fishing for bullheads below the falls, and playing around the few remaining timbers of the old mill that was still standing. I remember tracing an abandoned road from the mill to the bank of the stream above the falls, where at one time a bridge had crossed the water. The road then ran on to the main concession or street. Below our farm and on for a bit the creek wound its way around trees, protruding rocks and bushes to a deep gully worn through the rough rocky bed of the stream. In the spring you could stand on the bank and see large red fin suckers dashing through the running water to the quieter pools farther up, and many times were treated to a nice dinner of fish caught in these rapids. As the flooded flats cleared and the stream went back to its natural course we built our raft, fastening a long rope on one end so that one of us could go aboard and pole across the creek, while the other boy hung onto the rope, fastened another rope in place and towed our raft from each side up as far as we could go. It was great fun! Reading David Harum and his experience driving horses or mules hitched to the end of a tow rope, hauling barges on the Erie Canal always reminded me of these days with the raft. My sister’s birthday came in April, and Mother had a party for her. A few of the boys too were invited, but instead of staying at the house and playing there, they all wanted to go to the creek. My raft had been securely tied to a tree along the shore, and they all wanted to play with it. I had told them that it was not safe for more than two or three at once, but they would not listen, and four stepped on. They used with poles out from the shore and when the current caught it away they went down stream, laughing and yelling. All went well. It was always a tricky job to steer around the crooks and rocks on the bank, and they were nearly down to the lower log where they would have to stop, when the raft caught a rock, swung around and struck again and it was all over! I managed to salvage the broken boards and the rails, but the bys were wet right to their armpits! Their good clothes of course were soaked, so we went back to the house. One of the lads who did not live far away went home. I can see him yet plodding along with the water gushing from his boots at each step. The three others, well, Mother found enough clothing for them and their garments were hung around the kitchen stove to dry. Mother told them she ought to make them put on the girls’ clothes as punishment, but it nearly broke up the party. There was another swimming hole above the falls to which the big boys at noon would run from school, for a dip before one o’clock. One day I went with three or four of them, not to swim, but to play around on a flat rock at the edge of the deeper water. Getting too near the edge I slipped and down I went. I can still feel the weeds at the bottom of that hole at my feet I came to the top but down I went again. Next time, as I came up I heard one of the boys yell “he’s drowning!” Well they dove in and got me out, laid me with my face down hill and was I sick! I went back to school that afternoon and had a horrible head-ache. A neighbour heard about it and told Father. He said. “All right boy, I am going to teach you to swim!” Father in his younger days was an athlete; he could play ball, swim well and could do a perfect dive. I have heard him tell of going to the river, climbing up the high rock overlooking the swift water of the Needle’s Eye, and after diving into the swirling current he would swim down to the eddy below, then go back and do it all over again. He could turn cartwheels, do hand springs and walk all over the flat on his hands. We were all in the water one day. (You could go back a couple of rods from the bank, take a run and jump, and land in two or three feet of water.) All at once I heard a loud splash, and looking round, saw Father in the water. I knew it was of no use for me to try to get away, he caught me and before I left the creek that day I could swim. Years later when the family were all home for a holiday, we went down to the swimming hole, eighteen of us, enjoyed a swim and then sat on the bank and told others of the fun we had when as children, we took our bath in the swimming hole at the creek. From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings It was nearly the last week of haying. Father and a neighbour, Chris Bateson, had done this work together on both farms, and I drove the rake. This day we were on our neighbour’s farm, and I was following the wagon, cleaning up the rakings. I remember I had gone over a small clump of grass and had wondered why the mower had missed it, when all at once my horse started to switch his tail, kick and shake his head. I did not realize what was wrong until I felt a sting on my bare leg, and looking down, saw a swarm of bumble bees. My rake was about half-full of hay, which was rolling over and over in front of the teeth, and each time it came over, more bees came from it. I had raked into the nest, pulled it into the hay, and was rolling out more bees at each turning. By this time my horse had started to run away, so I dumped out the hay and away we went down the fields. Fortunately there was noting in the way, so I hung on and let him run guiding him enough that we finally came to a high rail fence, and I got him stopped. We had left the bees still flying around the hay, and next day I went over and burned or smoked them out. The foundry man in Lyn was of an inventive mind. One day he had been out in the country delivering a cultivator, and in the deal had secured three hives of honey bees. Bringing them home, he had placed them on a long bench at the edge of the garden. Later on he was called form the shop with the news that he bees were swarming, and going to the garden found the whole swarm had lodged on the limb of an elm tree about ten feet from the ground. Backing up his spring wagon under them and placing a couple of packing boxes in it, he fastened a market basket on a short pole, tied a cord to the end to the limb and climbed up on the boxes. He held the basket under the bees and started jerking the cord, the bees dropping in bunches into the basket. All went well until he made a misstep, tipped over the boxes and fell on the floor of the wagon, with the basket of bees tipping over on him. I was talking to his son a short time ago. He gave me a part of the story, but he said he ran from the scene as his father fell, so that he could not remember any remarks that came from the occupant of that wagon ! There always seemed to be a fascination for some people in keeping bees, and my partner decided he was going into the bee business. Procuring one hive to start with, he placed it in his garden, under a small apple tree, between the house and barn. The weather turned warm and one day his bees swarmed, and lit in a limb of the apple tree. He had prepared for this event, had a large straw hat fixed up, with a netting around the rim and a cord to tie it around the neck. He had tied cord around the legs of his trousers at his boot-tops, his wife had placed a pair of leather gauntlets on his hands, tying them tightly at his wrists, and he was ready to get the swarm into the new hive already placed in position. Stepping up to the limb he proceeded to shake it gently, the bees dropping around the hive, and some, of course, dropping around his boots. He was careful not to step on them. All at once he started to yell, and ran for the house. In moving around he had stepped on one of the ends of the bow-knot of the cord tied around his trouser leg, loosened it, and the bees had crawled up inside stinging him around the waist-band. He was met at the door by his wife, who told him not to come in there as the baby was asleep in the kitchen. Then he turned and started for the barn but remembering his horse was loose inside, he again turned, ran out to the street and across the canal. His hat by this time had come off and was hanging behind his head with the netting still over his face. At that time the steps to the work shop were outside the main building, and up these steps he ran and into the room above. Wondering what the mater was, I followed him. Then he yelled “Don’t come in here” He found a wood chisel, cut the strings on his gauntlets and the one on the other pant leg and finally got those trousers off and beat off the bees that still insisted on staying with him. Finally he went home and to bed. There were over twenty stings around his waist ! His wife had to go to the druggist for a remedy, but he was quite ill for a day or two. Later he decided that bee-keeping was not in his line, and made someone else happy with his bees. From the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings My cousin Eck Kilborn, a boy of about my own age, and doubly related to me, (his mother was a first cousin of my father and his father a brother of my mother), was an only child and so for companionship was always ready to come to my house. We were great chums, and I am sorry to say we seemed to get into more trouble than any others of my family. His home was about four miles from mine, and he was always planning, when we were together, some reason for my going home with him. One day he and his father and mother came to our house, driving a team of horses on a lumber wagon with a high box. They had a spring seat raised up and resting on the side board of the box. A heavy buffalo robe was thrown over the east, hanging down in front and behind and touching the floor of the box. My Cousin suggested that, about the time they would be ready for home I get into the box, crawl under the seat inside the robe, and lie down on an old cushion he had put there for me. At last they were ready, and I climbed in and we started off. We had decided I should crawl out when we were well on our way and too far from my house for me to be returned. All went well, although the stone road was so rough that I got a lot of bumps on the way down. My cousin said he would kick the robe with his feet when it was time for me to appear, and I watched patiently for the signal. Finally it came. I crawled out in front of my aunt and uncle. It was too late for them to turn back and take me home, so they decided to drive on and send word to my grandfather’s that I was with them. My family missing me, started to search the barn, down at the creek and at the neighbour’s. Finally word came to them that I had hidden in the wagon and was at my cousin’s. My parents came down that night for me and as punishment I had either to take a thrashing or agree not to go to my cousins for two months. I was just a little fellow only seven years old, so finally I took the strap, on Eck’s advice. One day my cousin came to see me, driving with his parents in their covered buggy. It was quite new, and had such high wheels that to climb in you needed a box to stand on. They had unhitched the horse, and left the buggy in front of the barn. My sister, my cousin and I were playing around it and as there was some mud on the wheels we decided to run it down to the creek, going around by the cow path and on down where it was not to steep. My sister climbed up in the seat, the back curtain of the top was rolled up and I got in and held up the shafts, my cousin pushing behind. Finally as we moved off, he climbed up on the axle and stood looking through at me in the shafts. The buggy gained speed. I tried to make the turn and keep in the track but fell. I hung on to the shafts and was dragged down almost to the high edge of the gravel pit where there was a drop of about forty feet to the boulders and water below, when the ends of the shafts started digging into the ground. I still hung on and finally we stopped… They had to hitch the team to the back of the buggy to get the shafts out of the ground and haul it back up the hill. My sister was crying and I was muddy and scared. One shaft was splintered but they took a strap from some old harness and wound it around and put some tacks in to get home. I had already suffered my punishment as I was sore and sick for a week- but we didn’t wash the buggy! My cousin Eck was a great one to go exploring wherever there were old machines or iron stored. On one of his visits with us we went up into our shed, that later was moved away to make room for the more modern woodshed. There were a couple of scantling nailed against the end of the building and cleats nailed on making a ladder to climb up to the little square door opening into the upper floor, It was quite a feat to go up this ladder, open the door and climb in. We three, my cousin, my sister and I were all up there. Eck was pulling out an old piece of iron that lay on the floor. The sap buckets made of wood at that time, were piled one above the other on the floor, and as he pulled again, he tipped over the pile of buckets. Al at once there was a loud buzzing, and a cloud of bumblebees swarmed around our heads. My sister was nearest the door and she tried to get down the ladder, but got several stings before getting outside. I took off my new hard sailor hat and started fighting the bees with it. My cousin headed for the door and he got his share of stings. When I finally got down, all that was left of my new hat was the brim. It was a warm rainy day in August. To deaden the stings, my sister said to go out and get some mud from the road, put it on the spots and let it stay there for awhile. The road at that time had been covered with red cinders from the Chemical Works, and the mud from these left a red stain on everything it touched. But we did not care! We started daubing our stings with mud so that when we were through we looked like spotted tigers. We went into the house, and didn’t we get it! “Where in the world have you been and what has happened?” my mother exclaimed. When later I rescued the crown of my hat, Mother sewed it to the brim and I had to wear it like that all the rest of the summer. As told by Marble Billings many years ago, about 1879 Shortly after I was married and moved to my farm east of Lyn, I was called to the door one morning in November by a neighbour, William Judson, who said that he had left his horses out in the back pasture the day before, and finding a couple of inches of snow on the ground next morning had started out to bring them home. On arriving at the pasture, which also contained a growth of shrub trees, he found his horses in a very excited state, running around with heads and tails up, snorting and very scared. His dog, which had preceded him into the grove, started barking and growling, running around a clump of bushes, and finally with an awful howl, started for home. On approaching a little nearer the grove, he saw a large black bear digging in the leaves for some wild apples that had fallen from a small apple tree growing there. At once, realizing he could do nothing alone, he had hurried to me to bring my dog and a gun, a muzzle-loader shot gun, which I first loaded with buckshot. Then I routed out another neighbour, Clark Clow, also Firman Judson, and Henry Rowson, who each had shot guns, which were soon all loaded with buckshot or bullets. Then we started back to the pasture. Of course our several collie dogs were all excited at seeing the guns being loaded, and upon arriving at the grove, the dogs got the scent of the bear aand started tracking him along a ditch that crossed the side road and into the Rowsom woods. Soon they caught up to him, barking and racing towards him, when suddenly Mr. Bear turned and gave one of the dogs a cuff with his paw, and started chasing them. By this time we were getting pretty close to him and one man fired. The bear then turned, and coming to a big elm tree that had proved the tallest in the woods, he started to climb it, keeping on the side farthest from the hunters. Up and up he went and finally stopped where there were a couple of big limbs branching out making a little shield for him from the shots now being fired. Finally, when a well aimed shot penetrated his ear he squealed, and started backwards down the tree again. Mr. Rowsom finally fired. The bullet penetrated his brain and he fell backwards to the ground. I had not fired my gun before as I knew it would have been of no use, but when the bear struck the ground I ran up and held the muzzle of my gun to his head, but the bear was dead. By George ! We were an excited bunch. We got a wagon and team into the woods and loaded the carcass on. Putting the side board up so that it would not roll off, we drove up to Lyn to the hay scales which at that time were at the side of the street opposite the Baxter Block. We had covered our prize with blankets and we were over to the store and asked whether they would come and weigh our bear. Of course everybody laughed for they thought it was a joke. But when we lifted off the blankets and side board there was a mad rush towards the wagon. Our bear weighed over four hundred pounds, and we sold the hide for seven dollars. I have always been sorry I did not buy it myself, as it would have made a lovely sleigh robe. I have heard my father tell this true story many times, and always it was so real that we children listening were very much disturbed by it, especially when it was told to a neighbour about our bed time. In our various collections we have photos of people with no names attached, our forgotten people. Take a look and see if you recognize anyone, if you can put a name and date with a photo please let us know. There are a total of 150 photographs. The beginnings of the historic ‘Fragonard Parfumeur’ began in Grasse, France shortly before the First World War. By the 17th century, Grasse was the capital of perfume production with its ideal climate for the cultivation of roses, jasmine and other essential flowers that were used to make attractive fragrances. More importantly to the development of the Fragonard Perfumery, Grasse and it’s French Rivera charm, was becoming a popular destination for tourists. Entrepreneur and a perfume aficionado, Eugène Fuchs, opened his own perfumery in 1926 based on the idea of selling fragrance directly to the tourists. He named it in homage to the renowned 18th century French romantic painter Jean-Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806); a fitting tribute to the son of a master glove maker and perfumer who was born in Grasse, the city Fuchs also hoped to commemorate for its refinement of arts. Fuchs’ spirit and enthusiasm behind the success of his perfumery has grown under the help of four succeeding generations who have all contributed to Fuchs’ passion and design. For example, under the direction of Fuchs’ grandson Jean-François Costa, Fragonard went through a rapid expansion and modernization. Additionally, in 1978, Costa opened the Musée des Parfums, located on the top floor of the original perfume factory in Grasse that celebrates the role of perfume production in the culture and history of Grasse. The museum is open to this day. Currently, Fragonard is run by Costa’s three daughters; they have opened additional production in Eze and Paris, as well as greatly expanded the retail line in not only selling fragrances and perfumes, but also eaux de toilettes, cosmetic products, soaps, shower gels, old-fashioned bath salts, scented candles and home fragrance diffusers. Northern Electric Company Limited Wooden Telephone Box The Northern Electric Company, established in the late 1800s, was a revolutionary enterprise that pioneered Canada’s telecommunications production and innovation. Founded in Montreal, Quebec (later expanding to other locations, such as Bellville, Ontario), Northern Electric went through a historic evolution from a small Canadian telephone equipment supplier to the architect of a budding world of networks. Under a few different company names (i.e. Northern Electric, Northern Telecom Limited, Nortel) numerous products, such as radios, televisions, amplifiers, speakers, switchboards, and telephones were manufactured and sold on a massive scale. Wooden wall phones were one of the first telephone models available to the public and had a long lifespan in rural Canadian households. For example, the long and bulky coffin shaped wooden wall mounted telephone box was one the first telephones put into wide circulation. The three-box telephone was another popular wooden model that did not house the phones features in a large coffin shaped box, but rather in 3 separate wooden boxes. Both these local battery powered magneto phones were manufactured until the early 1960s, and remained in service well into the 1970s despite the evolution of household telephones. Our collection houses a Northern Electric Company Limited wooden telephone box that I speculate to be the top or upper box of a three-box wall mounted telephone. This upper box would contain the magneto or electric generator that produces the electricity required to ring the bells of the party being called. The middle box would contain the phone’s transmitter, and the bottom box would contain the batteries that would have powered the phone and a protruding flat or inclined horizontal surface that would allow for the jotting down of notes while using the telephone. One spring, when I was about fourteen, we had several white frosts. The snow in the sugar-bush was still early two feet deep, but it was nearly time to get out the tin sap buckets, put on a couple of kettles of water, build a good fire in the kitchen stove, and give these buckets a through cleaning. The spiles also came in for a good scalding before we could tap the bush. Early next morning it looked the right time to head for the woods, so with our load we started. There had been a track broken in from the road and the team jogged along until we came to the maple grove. Then with a hatchet, a bit and bit stock, I struck out over the frozen snow, picked out the spot to bore the hole, and proceeded to tap the tree. The driving in the spile to the proper depth, I went on to the next tree while my sister Lou brought the bucket and hung it in place. Nearly all forenoon we could walk on the crust, but by eleven o’clock the snow began to get soft and your feet would break through, sometimes causing you to fall. With the great depth of snow it began to mean hard work, but we stuck to it and by noon had nearly two hundred and fifty trees tapped. We already had a sugar shanty, and going to it we cleared the snow from around the front door and got the door open. The wood for the fireplace had been piled ready, and we started for home. Having plunged through the wet snow until we were wet to our hips, we had to hunt out dry clothes and put them on before we had dinner. As the next day was cold and stormy there was no use of our going to the bush. However, the second day proved a real sap day, and before night we found every bucket filled. Boiling the sap seemed a slow process, but by night we had a foaming pan of thin syrup, and, as Father had come down prepared to boil all night and had the fur robes all arranged in the bunk beside the arch, I decided to stay with him. So after seeing there was lots of wood inside, I curled up in the robes and went to sleep. About two o’clock father woke me saying he had forgotten to fill the lantern, and I would have to go home and get some coal-oil. This seemed a long trip, so I said I would go across the hill to the Brown farm on the chance of finding an oil can in their shed. Emerging from the bush I walked over the hill and down to the shed door, where I knew they usually had a supply of lanterns, as they often had to go to the cattle barns during the night. Entering the woodshed I held my Lantern up and sure enough on a long girder hung a dozen lanterns. I went over to them and picked one up. There was no oil in it; the next one was the same. The third one had lots of oil in it, but the chimney was broken. Comparing the lanterns, I saw the chimney on my lantern would work on the other, so going outside, I changed the chimneys, lit the third lantern and returned to the sugar bush in a very short time. We were able to take care of our syrup and were home before daylight. The first attempts at boiling sap are quite vivid in my memory. Three big kettles at the farm that were used for heating water at butchering time were cleaned and taken to the bush. At the spot there was a ledge of rock about four feet hgh, against which the kettles were placed. A green pole with supports at each end was placed over the kettles and chains fastened to them and around the pole; then it was raised until there was room to build a good fire underneath. With the pole securely braced we were ready for the sap. It was slow work as the sap would boil over when too much fire was put on, and the smoke and ashes would settle on the top of the kettles. The only way we had to stop it boiling over was to plunge a chunk of fat pork fastened to the end of a long stick into the foaming sap. I did not understand the virtue of this, but I remember having to stand before the fire and to watch those kettles. A year of two later an arch was built, and a nice new tin sap-pan was bought, also a couple of hundred tin sap buckets. The first buckets we used were made of wood, similar to wooden pails that later were sold from the stores. Before farmers used wooden buckets they made sap buckets by hand. Basswood logs about fourteen inches across were split in two, an axe was used to hew a hollow in the centre of each log. This was cut in spaces of about two feet each, an adze was used to smooth the hollow, the saw cut them in the right lengths, the round side of each trough was flattened so that it would not tip over, and they were ready for the sap. Before the metal spile was used, pieces of cedar about ten inches long were split to about an inch and a quarter, a channel was cut in the piece and at the other end a hole was bored lengthwise in to the channel gouged out, a hot piece of heavy wire shoved through the hole to clear out the shaving and this end then shaped to fit in the hole bored in the tree. When later metal spiles were obtained and the wooden buckets used, my father made a loop of wire near the top of the bucket and then could hang the wire on the hook of the metal spile. Our wooden buckets had at one time been painted red on the outside, with the name “A.Dunham” printed on each one. I suppose these buckets had at one time been owned by this man. One incident I well remember. Our old friend, Vanamber Brown, had a bush just over the line fence between our two wood-lots. He had built up an arch of dry stones and banked it with earth. We were first that night to get our pan off, and we placed the syrup in a large milk can, for transportation to the house. We had hurried over to help Vanamber, but we were too late. He had noticed that his syrup was ready to come off, and had placed a couple of poles about seven feet long, one end on the side of the arch and the other on a log inside the shanty. He then attempted to pull the pan over on the poles, and had got along so far all right. However, unfortunately the pole near the front of the pan was lower that the other. He turned to get his can ready, and the syrup started running to the front of the pan, with the result that the weight of the syrup upended the pan and the whole day and a half’s boiling ran out on the ground. He managed to save about a gallon that still remained in the end of the pan, but the rest was gone. The memory of a dinner in the bush at Easter when Mother would send down warmed up potatoes, boiled ham, eggs, doughnuts, fresh syrup coffee and a mince pie, still remains in my thoughts along with the fun and frolics of our guests, who, gathered for a sugar-off, were all eager to help Dad with the fire. I can see them yet, piling armfuls of dried limbs all around him till you could just see his head, but he enjoyed it all and had a warm welcome for the whole crowd. Then we made jack-wax on the pans of snow, packed solid so that the hot syrup would not go through. Forks were passed around, or small cedar sticks dipped in the syrup as it hardened in the snow, and eyes glistened as the sweet sticky jack-wax was drawn in a ribbon form and then rolled again on the forks to taste and taste again. These were great days – Often in later years these guests would write to remind us of the big dinner and the sugaring off in the maple bush on our farm. Curling irons or curling tongs are far from being a modern invention. In fact, these hairstyling tools have been around for centuries and were used by early Babylonian, Assyrian, Persian, Greek and Egyptian civilizations. Often used to signify wealth and beauty, Persian and Greek nobles used iron or bronze rods, that were heated over a fire, to produce impressive hairstyles, and for Egyptian nobles, stylish wigs. Even Babylonian and Assyrian men crimped and curled their beards with basic curling irons. Sir Hiram Maxim, a US-born citizen of England, who gained hundreds of patents for various military, household, health, and beauty industry inventions (i.e. the maxim machine gun, a light bulb, an asthma inhaler, and a mousetrap) is accredited with patenting one of the earliest curling iron designs in 1866. By 1921, many more patents were materializing. Frenchman Marcel Grateau is acknowledged as the official inventor of the curling tong. In 1872, Grateau revolutionized hair styling when he invented the “Marcel Wave” as alternative hairstyle to the long curls that were in trend at the time. The curling tong he invented, and used to create the “Marcel Wave,” still closely resembled the curling irons used by ancient civilizations. Over time, only the handles of curling tongs and the size of the metal barrel varied from one tool to another; handles would often be made of different types of wood, or more expensive models would have nickel-plated handles and floral embellishments. However, curling tongs were still designed with metal barrels that needed to heated over gas burners. Many accidents resulting in burnt or damaged hair occurred as the heat of the metal tongs was difficult to control, even in the hands of trained operators. A problem which was solved with the invention of an electric curling iron, which was easier to control the apperatus’s temperature and therefore safer to operate. Prior to the 1800’s, the idea of powered washing machine was just beginning to come to fruition. That being said, the “scrub board” or “washboard” has arguably been around for ages. The traditional washboard were made out of a rectangular piece of wood that had a series of ridges for the clothing to be rubbed upon. Whereas, later washboards still had a wooden fame, but its ridges were made out of metal. Yet, rubbing, wringing, and lifting water-laden clothes and linen was a daunting and time consuming task. To ease this chore, numerous washing machines models were being patented during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. For instance, New Yorkers Amos Larcom and Nicholas Bennett and Canadian John E. Turnbull are just a few of the long list of names associated with the development of the washing machine in the early 1800’s and onwards. In 1858, William Blackstone of Indiana built a washing machine for his wife that was the first official washing machine model made for convenient use at home to remove dirt and stains. In 1907, the Hurley Electric Laundry Equipment Company out of Chicago invented the “Thor” washing machine which was the first commercially sold electric-powered model with a galvanized tub and an electric motor. We house three washing machines in our collection: A hand crank washing machine manufactured by the Boss Washing Machine Company out of Norwood, Ohio. Run by the companies president Conrad Dietz, they produced and developed models from hand-operated wooden machines to electric-motorized metal washers. A wooden Dolly Washer that was water powered. While we do not know what company manufactured this model, we do know that it was patented in 1916. Lastly, a wooden hand operated model manufactured, circa 1908, by the Michigan Washing Machine Company out of Muskegon, Mi. The Kodak Brownie Hawkeye camera was one of the many Kodak ‘Brownie’ cameras that Eastman Kodak (Rochester, NY) manufactured between the 1900’s and well into the 20th Century. These cameras shared the ‘Brownie’ name, but ranged from box cameras, to folding cameras, and later, movie cameras. Kodak Brownie box cameras were sold at inexpensive prices to the average consumer who took ‘everyday’ photos. The Hawkeye model debuted in 1949 and its production lasted through 1951. This Bakelite box camera produced twelve 2¼” by 2¼” images on 620 spool film. It sold extremely well and acquired popularity for its sleek design and simple minimalist features, such as a single-element non-focusing meniscus lens and a simple rotary shutter that were easy to operate. Its size and weight were great for your average user and had a convenient strap at the top. In 1950, Kodak introduced the Kodak Brownie Hawkeye Flash model. This model was the same as the Kodak Brownie Hawkeye but added a new feature to the existing design, a “Kodalite Flasholder” accessory that synchronized with the shutter. Production of the Flash model seized in 1961, but both models are popular collector’s items, as well as fun and efficient cameras that photographers still enjoy using today. A Brief History of the Elizabethtown-Kitley Fire Department From the very beginning to the Present Our township is located along the St. Lawrence River and our municipality surrounds the City of Brockville, Ontario Canada. We amalgamated with our neighboring township of Kitley on January 1st, 2001 and are now the Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley and cover an area of 590 sq kilometers. We have 3 fire stations with 1 full time Fire Chief, 1 full time Administrative Assistant and 1 part time Fire Prevention Officer, along with 60 volunteer firefighters. We house 4 Tankers, 4 Pumpers, 3 Rescue units, 1 Medical Van, and 2 Club Cab Trucks. Elizabethtown Fire Department was established in 1963 at 26 Main St. W. in the Village of Lyn, a second station was a converted two bay garage. Kitley Fire Department was established in the Village of Frankville in 1965. The following is historical information on both Elizabethtown and Kitley Fire Departments Who were the first members of each fire department, Elizabethtown & Kitley? Elizabethtown Dave McCrady-Chief Earle Miller-DC Arnold Ladd Ivan Cross George Williams Herb Simpson Frank Willows William Murray George Bycroft Cliff Churchill Gerald Coon Ron Flood Allan Hanna Don Jowett Ron Murphy Alf McDonald Norm Reynolds Don Toohey Don White Frank VanDusen Eddy Casselman, Clarence Hoare, Don Toohey, Frank Willows, Doug Jowett, Matt Bonokoski, Herb Dewar, Jack Darling, Bill Gaskell, Huge McClintock, Don Mott, Roy Bradley, Bill Empey, Ron Cross, Joe Cirtwell Kitley Gerald E. Moran- Chief Gib Johnston Charlie Smith Garnet Baker Borden Armstrong Ray Bennett James Dawson Arthur Ferguson Allan Mercier Gerald Sands Doug Bryan James Rae J.R. Victor Johnston Guy Johnston Marshall Davidson Ray Ireland Gordie Brundige Ronald Eaton Basil Beaupre Gerald Lawson Earl Sands Gerald Mercier Gerald S. Moran Jack Wilkinson Ken Baker Jack Hanton Who were the Fire chiefs of each fire department, Elizabethtown & Kitley? Elizabethtown- Dave McCrady 1963-1967 George Williams 1967-1979 Don White 1979-1989 Jim Donovan 1989-2001 Kitley- Gerald E. Moran 1965-1967 Ray Ireland 1967-1989 Ken Baker 1989-2001 Elizabethtown –Kitley Jim Donovan 2001- Present Who are the fire chiefs today, and their role and duties? Fire Chief Jim Donovan, Deputy Fire Chief Andy Guilboard A chief (and/or his/her designate) is the person who is ultimately responsible to Council and is appointed to deliver Fire Protection Services as set out by the municipality for the residents. They are also appointed by the Province to enforce the Fire Protection and Prevention Act and the Ontario Fire Code. The 2017 Fire fighters are, –Barb Brownell – Fire Administration 1995-present Doug Andress Daniel Ashe Randy Beaupre Gerry Bell Brad Buchanan Rachel Bond Cody Burridge Donna Carty Dillon Champagne Lisa Charbonneau Jesse Dentz Mike Dunster Derrick Empey Tom Evans Adam Findlay Andrew Flood Gary Foster Dave Goguen Steven Goguen Paul Gordon Andy Guilboard Ryan Healey Aaron Heidemann Steve Helmus Derrik Hill Matt Huskinson Bill Johnston Michael Jonker Alfred Kelly Tyler Knapp David Laliberte Brian Lawson Dakota Layng Nathan Leclair David Loney Andrew Malanka Dylan Maud Alan Merkley Steve Moore Dan Noel Brian Normandin Chris Paul Zack Paul Pascal Peladeau Eric Perrin Jeremy Renkema Michael Rowntree Jeff Sargent Chad Scott Matt Shaw Tim Slusarchuk Gerry Smith Jeff Smith Matthew Spencer Jamie St.Pierre Owen Stevens Scott Tedford Tim Tedford Brian Triemstra Mark Weldon Cory Wilson Matt Worden Michael Yates Number of fire and rescue call per year? Approximately 210 calls per year What is the average number of hours spent attending fire and rescue call per year? Total Hours for 2016-9,503 How many hours are spent in training per year? Training Hours for 2016 – 3,723.5 hours List the awards the department has won locally, regional, provincially? Extrication Team- The team was established in 1999 and since has competed in 13 regional competitions and 5 international competitions. In 2008 the extrication team hosted the Eastern Ontario Extrication Competition in Frankville. Fire Fit Team – Riverfest 2008-Placing First. 2008 Ingleside – Fastest Relay Team 2008 – Canadian Nationals- Fastest Volunteer Relay in Canada What Fund-raising activities dose the fire department do? and what do they use the money for? Fund Raising – Chicken BBQ, Fish Fry, MD Boot Drive Fire Fighter’s Association Both, the Elizabethtown and the Kitley Fire Fighter Associations still actively fund raise to assist in the purchasing of equipment, sponsoring local youth recreation activities and donating to local charities (MD). They participated in parades throughout the Counties again this year. What is the fire department Mission Statement/Motto? MISSION STATEMENT The primary mission of the Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley Fire & Emergency Services is to provide a range of programs to protect the lives and property of the inhabitants of the Township of Elizabethtown-Kitley from the adverse effects of fires, sudden medical emergencies or exposure to dangerous conditions created by man or nature. Our Family, Helping Yours The above information was provided by the Elizabethtown-Kitley Fire Department On May 6th, 1985, Kitley Fire Department celebrated its’ 20th Anniversary. During these years the Township of Kitley went from being without a fire department to having one of the best equipped and best trained in the Country. Accomplishing this took a considerable outlay of time and money. Fire protection for the township prior to 1965 was inadequate at its best. Smith’s Falls was paid to respond to calls for help, and respond they did. Their best equipment however was allocated for use in the town of Smith’s Falls, and only their second pumper came to calls in Kitley. Since an adequate supply of water in town was supplied by hydrants, they did not have a tanker to haul water. Local residents had to supply the water unless the fire was close to a creek or pond from which they could pump water. Seeing milk cans of water being hauled to supply the pumper was a frequent sight at a fire in the township. No matter how great the effort, water could not be hauled in sufficient quantity to supply the pumper. The first hope for improvement came because of a push from the village of Frankville. A group known as the Frankville Fire Brigade was formed to provide fire protection for the village. Thought their equipment was very limited, they had a building and a good well. The well was equipped with a deep lift pump, and was able to provide a continuous supply of water through a 1 ½ inch line. On August 13, 1964, Reeve Charles Sands met with the Village of Frankville Trustees, The Frankville Fire Brigade and a large group of interested people. The decision was made that changes in Fire Protection were necessary. The Fire Marshall’s office was contacted regarding requirements for a legal fire department. Mr. Maurice Roussey met with the Council and informed them that setting up an adequate Fire Department was too large a venture for a village and that a Township Fire Department should be considered instead. A survey of the Township’s requirements was undertaken and provided information that the Frankville Fire Hall and an unused Toledo Fire Hall did not meet standards and did not have room for expansion. The discussion for a new fire hall was discussed at length by Council. Even though they would have liked to have the building in the centre of the Township, this was not possible since the men interested in being firefighters were from the Frankville area. In the end, the location was decided when land was donated on the north end of Frankville for this purpose. The property was of sufficient size and on Hwy#29. The deed was completed and the lot fenced in May of 1965. With the support of volunteers a fire hall was constructed. The building including heating and hydro cost a total of $7,445. Of this amount Council through taxes paid only $3,205., the Fire Association through fundraising paid the rest as well as 2,222 hours of volunteer labour by 66 men. The total equipment at this time amounted to a 1946 Mercury truck with a 1000 gallon tank inherited from the Frankville Fire Brigade. This truck affectionately named “Lulabelle” was the complete source of water. Driving ‘Lulabelle’ however required special care, since there were no baffles in the tank, unless it was completely full, the movement of the water would push her through stop signs. The Fire Department decided a better tanker was necessary, and in November of 1965 a 1959 GMC truck was purchased for $900. as well as a 1200 gallon tank. The money was borrowed from the bank using the signatures of 27 men as collateral. By June of 1966, the loan as well as interest was paid off Volunteers repaired the truck and tank to get it ready for use by the department. December 14, 1965 was a great day for Kitley Fire Department. The new pumper arrived! This vehicle from King Seagrave carried 500 gallons of water and was equipped with a pump capable of delivering 625 gallons per minute, it was completely equipped with hose, nozzles, ladders and most of the other items a firefighter might need. A new Hale portable pump, to be used for filling the tankers also arrived in December. The pumper at a cost of $17,486. and the portable pump at $610. were both purchased by council. The official opening of the Fire Hall took place on Saturday, June 223, 1966 at 2pm. Kitley Fire Department now had equipment which would meet all the requirements of the Fire Marshall’s Office. Alarm System In order to receive calls an alarm system was needed. Since no system was available through the Lewis Telephone System, the firefighters set up their own. They installed phones in all the firefighter’s homes and then strung their own wire to the old Frankville Fire Hall and to the office of the Lewis Telephone System. Even though the wire was old, the system for ringing the 25 phones was ‘state of art’ for 1965. The wire however was a different matter. Every weekend Ray Ireland and Ken Baker spent many hours climbing poles and splicing wires. Stories still circulate regarding the number of side cutters that Ray left on the cross arms of telephone poles. Fire Association The Fire Department would have been hard pressed to succeed without the assistance of the Firefighter’s Association. Since the formation of the Department, the Association has met regularly on the 3rd Monday of every month. Hey have been involved in almost continual fundraising for 20 years. They raised money through raffles, Walk-a-thons, New Year’s Eve dances, Wedding receptions and in numerous other ways. The association has raise many thousand dollars and spent it on necessary equipment for the Fire Department Women’s Auxiliary to the Fire Department On April 25, 1977, the Women’s Auxiliary was formed with Linda Brundige as its first president. Their objective was fund raising and they helped purchase pagers and turn out gear. Extracts taken from the booklet “ Kitley Volunteer Fire Department- The first twenty five years- 1965-1985. Authors and publisher unknown. Thanks to the Elizabethtown-Kitley Fire Department for this information. Unfortunately our photos are not the best, if anyone has some good qualtiy photographs we would appreciate hearing from you. Lanterns and lamps were used daily as a tool of the trade for railroad workers in the past. They were the best means of communication when operating and directing trains. These lanterns communicated signals between trains, stations, and workers, since loud working environments and the distance involved in train operations negated communication by speaking or yelling. Railroad lanterns and railroad lamps serve two separate ways of signalling. Railroad lanterns have a globe surrounded by a metal frame or caging and a fuel source, originally oil and later kerosene. A railroad lantern was portable and was an effective light source that could be easily seen at night from a distance. The railroad worker would swing and move the lantern in different ways according to what message he wanted to send. For instance, to give a stop signal, the lantern would be swung back and forth horizontally across the tracks and the signal to proceed was to move the lantern up and down vertically. In addition, different coloured globes or lenses, of both the lanterns and lamps, were used to mean different signals. Red, Blue, Yellow, and Green and Clear/White, had its own significance. For example, a lantern with a blue globe was hung on equipment to mark that wasn’t to be moved. A lantern with a green globe was used by switch tenders to indicate that the switches were aligned properly and to proceed with caution. Railroad lanterns are often classified into five different categories. These are: fixed globe lanterns, tall globe lanterns, short globe lanterns, conductors’ lanterns, and inspectors lanterns. Unlike lanterns, railroad lamps were designed to be stationary and were made out of sheet metal or cast metal. While they may have handles on them for transportation, they were generally larger than lanterns and had lenses to magnify the light, rather than a globe. Additionally, while lanterns were primarily used at night, lamps were used during the day as well as the night. Railroad lamps include: marker lamps, switch lamps, classification lamps, crossing-gate lamps, semaphore lamps, and each were mounted in different places and gave different signals. Marker lamps, for example, were hung on the last car to signal the end of the train. Whereas, switch lamps were mounted to a railroad track switch and would indicate, using specific colours, which position the switch was set to. The forebears to modern electric irons, flat irons or smoothing irons, later modified into what is more commonly known as ‘sad irons,’ were constructed by blacksmiths in the Middle Ages. ‘Sad’ is an Old English word for “solid,” and the term “sad iron” is used to distinguish heavy flat irons, usually weighing 5 to 9 pounds. The heft of a sad iron would proportionally effect the amount of heat held in the iron, and consequently how well the fabric would be pressed flat. The base of a sad iron is triangular shaped with a pointed tip to make it is easy to iron around buttons. They were heated on an open fire or a stove, and their metal handles had to be gripped with a thick potholder, rag, or gloves while ironing. Detachable wooden handles were added later to sad irons in place of the soldered metal handles. Wooden handles would stay cool while the metal bases were heated. Sad irons, circa 1900, featured an asbestos lining, under a removable hood that fitted over the heated “core,” and prevented heat from traveling up into the handle and burning the hand of the user. It was about the middle of January. We had been nearly snowed under from a week’s snow storm, then rain that flooded the flats along the creek, and a sudden change to a very cold weather that froze the snow, making a glare sheet of ice from the Lyn Road down across to the creek that was still level with its banks. Sunday afternoon my cousin with his parents came up for a visit. We two were out in the yard, playing on the crust with the big hand sleigh, and looking across to Harper’s hill, decided it would be a good chance to try a ride there. We walked up the road, climbed the fence and got the sleigh in position, then I lay down on my stomach and my cousin lay on my back. Away we went! The hill at the top was very steep, the sleigh gained speed and in seconds we were on the glare ice of the flat, then across the creek, up the bank and …Then I came to. We had gone head first into a clump of small bass-woods. My cousin seeing the danger had thrown himself clear but I had no chance; the force of the collision had knocked me out for a minute or two. We finally got back across the creek, where my cousin laid me on the sleigh and began the long pull back to the house. We finally got to the warmth of the barn where I lay down on the straw in the feed floor, in front of the cattle for an hour. When I returned to the house, where my uncle was waiting to go home, I complained of a headache and got sent to bed. Next morning I felt better but never told Mother what had happened, as I knew that she would say it was good enough for me, when I had gone sleigh-riding on Sunday. Driving along the Lyn Road I often look down the hill. The line fence has been moved and passes close to the clump of trees we hit that Sunday long ago. The sand and gravel have been taken away to the city so that there is no more fun on Harper’s hill. But the memory of that boyhood escapade still lives. Zam-Buk is a healing antiseptic ointment or embrocation that was advertised to help soothe and heal: cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, sprains, piles, pimples, eczema, leg, sores, ulcers, ringworm, chapped hands, sores, insect bites, chafing, chilblains, rheumatism, and cold sores. Zam-Buk had several formulas but was sold with antimicrobial and analgesic properties from ingredients like camphor and eucalyptus oil. The origins of Zam-Buk can be traced back to the early 1990s and was founded by Charles Edward Fulford of Leeds, England. The geneses of the products name, Zam-Buk, is unknown but is believed by some to have its roots from a town in South Africa. However, this theory remains unproven. The ‘Zam-Buk’ name and product acquired widespread recognition and popularity from its original use on rugby and football pitches in Australia and New Zealand. First aid officers would apply the antiseptic to injured players, cleansing their wounds and eliminating the chances of infection. The term ‘Zam-Buk’ would come to mean the first aid officers, rather than the treatment itself. The ointment was used extensively in the sporting world and was advertised as being “unequalled for sportsman.” This cure-all balm found itself on Canadian pharmacy shelves circa 1903, and sold with great success. Manufacturing efforts discontinued in 1998. Unfortunately not all of the photographs in our collection are identified. In this instance we have a small black photo album that was donated and we know nothing about it. The photos are not labelled. From the clothes and the military uniforms on some of the men we would estimate the dates of the photos between 1910 and 1920. The photos are not of the best quality, but nonetheless they do give us a good insight into how the people lived back then. If anyone recognizes any thing familiar in these photographs we would appreciate hearing from you. As photography developed as a commercial medium during the 1840s, it was realised that it was perfect for producing stereoscopic images and daguerreotypes were produced to be viewed using Wheatstone’s apparatus. This was achieved initially by taking one photograph, then moving the camera a few inches and taking a second. In early stereo views, sometimes the movement of people between the exposure of the left and right images is obvious. Soon, special stereoscopic cameras were developed to take the left and right images simultaneously, with two lenses separated by around the same distance as human eyes. In late 1840s, David Brewster greatly improved the viewer by using lenses instead of mirrors and this allowed a compact, portable device to be produced. Queen Victoria was amused by his viewer at the Great Exhibition 1851 and helped spawn a craze. Brewster claimed that by 1856 over 500,000 viewers had been sold. In the 1850s and 1860s, it can be argued that it was stereoscopic views, along with cartes-de-visite that popularised photography and spurred its growth and development. The London Stereoscopic Company was probably the largest manufacturer of photographs in the world during the 1860s, with its slogan ‘a stereoscope in every home’. By the end of the 1860s, this must have been virtually true for the middle class homes of Britain. Although its popularity ebbed, there was a second growth phase in the 1890s, with Underwood and Underwood becoming a huge publisher of images. They were eventually taken over by Keystone, who continued producing stereo views into the 1930s. In addition to the classic stereo view card (approx. 170mm x 80mm), several other smaller side-by-side formats emerged (particularly in France). The Viewmaster disc was probably the best known and is still produced today. (internet-no source name available) The stereoscopic viewing cards posted here are from our collection and give you a glimpse into the past. Anson McNish was born in Lyn, Ontario, the son of George McNish owner of the Lyn Agricultural Works and Almira Jane Fell. Anson was a mechanic by trade, but also an Amateur Photographer. As an amateur photographer, Anson has given us some very fine detailed pictures with glimpses into his life and surroundings. Anson married Antoinette (Nettie) Brookman, in Fultonville, NY on August 10, 1910. Together they had one daughter Florence Catherine who was born on Dec 3, 1913 in Weston, Ontario and unfortunately died at the early age of 15 on April 16, 1928 in Fultonville, NY These photos are of his daughter Florence, who from the photographs taken was loved by both Anson and Nettie. It must have been a great loss for both of them when she died in 1928 at the young age of 15. Florence McNish is buried along with her mother in the Fultonville, NY cemetery. Here are some of the photos that Anson took of his daughter, Florence. Anson McNish was born in Lyn, Ontario, in 1878, the son of George McNish owner of the Lyn Agricultural Works and Almira Jane Fell. Anson was a mechanic by trade, but also an Amateur Photographer. As an amateur photographer, Anson has given us some very fine detailed pictures with glimpses into his life and surroundings. Anson married Antoinette (Nettie) Brookman, in Fultonville, NY on August 10, 1910. Together they had one daughter Florence Catherine who was born in 1913 and unfortunately died at the early age of 15 in 1928. These photos are some of the very first photographs the Anson did. In these photos he shows us everyday life of his friends and family in and around the Lyn Area. Thanks to Anson we have some great insight into this time period of the late 1800’s to early 1900’s. Anson McNish was born in Lyn, Ontario, in 1878, the son of George McNish owner of the Lyn Agricultural Works and Almira Jane Fell. Anson was a mechanic by trade, but also an Amateur Photographer. As an amateur photographer, Anson has given us some very fine detailed pictures with glimpses into his life and surroundings. Anson married Antoinette (Nettie) Brookman, in Fultonville, NY on August 10, 1910. Together they had one daughter Florence Catherine who was born in 1913 and unfortunately died at the early age of 15 in 1928. These photos are some of the very first photographs the Anson did. In these photos he shows us everyday life of his friends and family in and around the Lyn Area. Thanks to Anson we have some great insight into this time period of the late 1800’s to early 1900’s. The Following Three Photographs taken by Anson McNish are the earliest pictures we have of the Village of Lyn taken from the Valley Anson McNish was born in Lyn, Ontario, the son of George McNish owner of the Lyn Agricultural Works and Almira Jane Fell. Anson was a mechanic by trade, but also an Amateur Photographer. As an amateur photographer, Anson has given us some very fine detailed pictures with glimpses into his life and surroundings. Anson married Antoinette (Nettie) Brookman, in Fultonville, NY on August 10, 1910. Together they had one daughter Florence Catherine who was born in 1913 and unfortunately died at the early age of 15 in 1928. Nettie and Florence are prominent features in most of his photographs. In 1920 Anson moved to Fultonville, NY. He owned and operated a car repair garage with Nettie’s sister’s husband in the next village, Fonda, NY. After his wife (1944) and daughter (1928) died Anson sold his interest in the garage and moved back to Brockville. Photos from Niagara Falls, Toronto and Southern Ontario 1907 to 1920 Anson McNish was born in Lyn, Ontario, the son of George McNish owner of the Lyn Agricultural Works and Almira Jane Fell. Anson was a mechanic by trade, but also an Amateur Photographer. As an amateur photographer, Anson has given us some very fine detailed pictures with glimpses into his life and surroundings. Anson married Antoinette (Nettie) Brockman, in Fultonville, NY on August 11, 1910. Together they had one daughter Florence Catherine who was born in 1913 and unfortunately died at the early age of 15 in 1928. Nettie and Florence are prominent features in most of his photographs. His photography was way above average for his time and his attention to detail is exceptional. He has given us a glimpse into everyday life in Weston. These photos are from the time Anson lived in Weston, Ontario from 1907 to 1920. During that time he worked at the Moffat Stove Works in Toronto. Anson McNish was born in Lyn, Ontario, the son of George McNish owner of the Lyn Agricultural Works and Almira Jane Fell. Anson was a mechanic by trade, but also an Amateur Photographer. As an amateur photographer, Anson has given us some very fine detailed pictures with glimpses into his life and surroundings. Anson married Antoinette (Nettie) Brockman, in Fultonville, NY on August 10, 1910. Together they had one daughter Florence Catherine who was born in 1913 and unfortunately died at the early age of 15 in 1928. Nettie and Florence are prominent features in most of his photographs. His photography was way above average for his time and his attention to detail is exceptional. He has given us a glimpse into everyday life in Weston. These photos are from the time Anson lived in Weston, Ontario from 1907 to 1920. During that time he worked at the Moffat Stove Works in Toronto. Anson McNish was born in Lyn, Ontario, the son of George McNish owner of the Lyn Agricultural Works and Almira Jane Fell. Anson was a mechanic by trade, but also an Amateur Photographer. As an amateur photographer, Anson has given us some very fine detailed pictures with glimpses into his life and surroundings, and everyday life in the early 1900’s. Anson married Antoinette (Nettie) Brookman, in Fultonville, NY on August 10, 1910. Together they had one daughter Florence Catherine who was born in 1913 and unfortunately died at the early age of 15 in 1928. Nettie and Florence are prominent features in most of his photographs. These photos are from the time Anson lived in Weston, Ontario from 1907 to 1920. During that time he worked at the Moffat Stove Works in Toronto. As a side note copies of these photos have been donated to the Weston Historical Society. This is the story of two ordinary people who, in search of a better life, migrated to Canada in the early 1800’s. They were both born in Antrim, Belfast, Northern Ireland and knew each other in their early days there, but came to Canada separately, only to meet up later and marry. Louise Knox was born in 1822. We know little of her life in Ireland, except that she came from a large family of two brothers and five sisters, Louise being the third youngest. From what we know, she moved with her older sister, Eleanor, and Eleanor’s husband John Kerr, to the area around Mountain, Ontario. While we are uncertain of the date they left Belfast, Eleanor’s first child, Robert, was born in Canada in November of 1840, so the chances are good that they left prior to this date quite possibly in 1839. Louise would have been around 16 years old when she started out on her big adventure. Settling in Mountain Township with her sister and brother-in-law, she would no doubt have been a great help to her older sister and her young family. Patrick Johnston was born in Antrim, Belfast, Northern Ireland in 1819. It was said that he was the least educated of his three brothers (John, Samuel and James) and one sister, Eleanor. This may have been the reason he decided to leave the security of his home and immigrate to Canada. Perhaps as a young man in his 20’s, he was just out looking for adventure. We know nothing about his sailing and arrival in Canada. The ship on which he sailed most likely took him to Montreal, where he would have then taken a smaller ship up river and then by road to his final destination of Elizabethtown, or what is now known as Brockville. What brought him to Brockville is unknown. He must have travelled around the area, because on one of his trips to Bytown (Ottawa), he ran into a friend from Belfast who told him that Louise was living in the Mountain area. Patrick found his childhood friend Louise. They were married around 1845 and settled west of Brockville. Their first house was located in what is now Oakland Cemetery. The stone foundation can still be seen in the westerly portion of the cemetery, backing onto Grant’s Creek. Judging by the size of the foundation the house was small, probably a log house, with a dirt floor and loft for sleeping. Patrick and Louise started their family with the birth of their first child William James in 1846, who died the next year in 1847. Their family grew as the years went by and eventually they had nine children, six boys and three girls. Two of the boys died in their youth, William at 1 year and David at 3. Both children would have been buried in an unmarked area of the cemetery reserved for children. Their children would have gone to school at the Rock School House, a stone school built in 1844 and located just west of where they were living. Patrick was a cabinet and furniture maker as well as a mechanic, perhaps a “Jack of All Trades”. How good he was is unknown, but he must have been able to make enough money to support his wife and seven remaining children. At some point the family moved from their small cabin to a house located on the Halleck’s Road just west of where the Lyn Road used to cross over the Grand Trunk RR Tracks. (The location is now buried by Highway 401.) In 1887 with their family grown and having moved out, their youngest son John, purchased a house and farm with 75 acres on the Lyn Road just south of the Grand Trunk Railroad. Patrick and Louise moved in with him and the three of them lived together in this small, five-room house. In May of 1891 John married Lilly Bell Patterson, and she moved in with her new husband and his parents. Perhaps the last thing a new bride wanted in those days was to live with her in-laws, but she accepted it and they all managed together. In August of 1892 Patrick, at the age of 73, met an untimely death. He unfortunately had taken a “fondness to Drink” and would take the ferry from Brockville across to Morristown, N.Y when the taverns were closed in Brockville. On one of his adventures to Morristown, he may have had a bit too much to drink, for on his return when stepping off the ferry onto the dock at Brockville, he slipped into the water between the ferry and dock and drowned. An inquest into his death was held, and the corner ruled it an “Accidental Drowning”. Louise continued to live with her son John and his wife Lilly Bell, and their family of three small girls, until her death in 1911 at aged 88. She was remembered as a very kind woman, who would sit rocking in her rocking chair smoking a clay pipe. Their children married and had their own families. The boys grew into tall men, all over 6 feet. Samuel went into the “Saloon” business and somehow managed to scrape together funds to purchase a Saloon/Hotel in Brockville called the Commercial Hotel. After selling that, he bought the Windsor Hotel located on Perth St. The building still stands today, but not as a hotel. Sam’s two brothers John and Stewart would work for him on weekends acting as ‘bouncers’ for those customers who got too rowdy. Samuel died in 1909. John learned the trade of a stone mason and worked for a time at the Brockville Cemetery Memorial Works, and later went out on his own as a stone mason. Some of his work can still be seen around the area. He died in 1950. Stewart moved to Gananoque and met an untimely death by drowning in the St. Lawrence River in 1902. William, (named after his deceased older brother who passed away at the age of one), worked as a painter at Canada Carriage, a very large carriage factory in Brockville. He died in 1918. Patrick and Louise along with their son Stewart lie buried in Oakland Cemetery across the road from where they first lived. The descendants of Patrick and Louisa now number over 600 known relations and have moved throughout Canada and the United States. This is the story of two ordinary people who moved to Canada in search of a better life. In so doing they gave their descendants a chance to grow and thrive in a free and democratic society. News Article from the Evening Recorder, Monday, August 29, 1892 Accident or Suicide Another Body Found in the River Between six and seven o’clock this morning the body of a man was found floating in the Transit’s slip at the C.P.R. dock by a labourer named Kelly. He immediately gave an alarm and a large crowd was soon gathered. The remains were quickly identified as those of an elderly cabinet maker named Patrick Johnston, who resided west of the town on the Lyn road. After being taken from the water the body was given in charge of Undertaker Clint and removed up town for holding an inquest. Chief Rose enpanelled a jury which viewed the remains and adjourned until tomorrow night at seven o’clock. The fact of the body being found floating gives the affair an air of mystery though it is generally thought the Transit’s wheel may have brought it to the surface. In so far as known there are no marks of violence on the body and as deceased was seen alive on Saturday he could not have been long in the water. Deceased who was 67 years of age and a fine mechanic was somewhat given to the use of intoxicants, but would be very unlikely to take his own life. He leaves a wife and large family of grown up children all respectably connected and who are at a loss to know how the unfortunate man met his death. The funeral will take place to-morrow at 2:30 p.m. from his late residence to the cemetery. The Evening Recorder, Tuesday Feb 14, 1911 Mrs. Patrick Johnston Another of the elderly residents of this section, Mrs. Patrick Johnston breathed her last evening at the home of her son, Mr. John F. Johnston, Lyn Road, after an illness of several months, the last three of which she had been confined to her bed. A breaking up of a hitherto robust constitution incidental to her advanced years was the cause. The late Mrs. Johnston was born in Ireland ninety years ago, her maiden name being Louise Knox. Coming to Canada she settled in Elizabethtown sixty five years ago and had since been a resident of the Township. Mr. Johnston died nineteen years ago, and a family of two sons and two daughters are now called upon to mourn the loss of their mother. They are Mrs. Harry Woods, of Vancouver, B.C.; Mrs. E. Tobey, Montreal; Wm. J., Brockville and John F. Elizabethtown. In religion she was a Methodist. The funeral will take place from her son’s residence to-morrow at 3:30 to Brockville cemetery. Service at the house at 3 o’clock. Major William Read, United Empire Loyalists and settler in Kitley Township Major William Read came to America from his native Ireland as a young man and settled on Bison Creek in the Parish of St. George, Queensboro Twp, Province of Georgia. The Reads, Lyles and Russells all had come from Ulster in the northeast part of Ireland (capital city Belfast). Young William Read arrived in Savannah on the ship “Hopewell” in 1769. There, William, in true pioneer spirit through toil and the sweat of his brow cleared the land and built himself an increasingly prosperous farm. There he also met and married Jennet Russell the daughter of his neighbours David Russell and Jennet Lyle and soon began a family of his own. When the war broke out in 1777 William, an outspoken young man, identified by the rebels as a danger to their cause, eventually sought refuge in east Florida where his father-in-law David Russell was already in exile. There he joined Colonel Brown’s Florida Rangers and stayed with them until Georgia was taken over by the British army. He served at the siege of Savannah following which he was discharged from the Florida Rangers. He was then commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Georgia Militia and was later granted a captain’s commission by Sir James Wright. He remained in the King’s service until the evacuation of Savannah and then went to St Augustine. During the war he was taken prisoner once and clothing and arms valued at 12 pounds were taken from him. His lands and possessions were confiscated and sold. In 1784 he took his family to the Gut of Canso in Nova Scotia, arriving on the good ship Argo where he attempted to farm for several years. Finding the land too inhospitable, he abandoned his hopes for success there and set off first for Quebec where he applied for land in Hinchinbrook Twp but didn’t stay there long. William Read in response to Governor Simcoe’s proclamation about new lands available in Upper Canada for settlement then moved his family to Leeds County about 1897, first to Yonge Twp, then Elizabethtown Twp, Augusta Twp, Bastard Twp & Kitley Townships. He and his family finally settling in Kitley Township on Lot 27 Con 8 near the village of Frankville. There William Read built a home for himself and his family from a clearing in the forest and began to prosper once again. He and his wife Agnes (Nancy) Russell (daughter of David Russell and Janette Lyle) eventually had a total of 13 children. The Rev William Bell, a dour Scottish Presbyterian minister, seems to have been quite friendly with William Read as he is referred to a number of times in Rev Bell’s journal. The Read home was located about halfway between Brockville and Perth so a likely stopping point for travellers. His father-in-law David Russell, who had fought beside William Read in Brown’s Rangers, died of a fever in St Augustine in 1782. In 1783 his widow Janet Lyle returned to Ireland with her five dependent children. As early as 1807 William Read began to gather volunteers for a militia anticipating that there might be future troubles. In 1812 William Read once again found himself taking up arms to defend his country when the War of 1812 broke out serving as second in the 2nd regiment of the Leeds County militia commanded by Colonel Joel Stone. William Read’s daughter Elizabeth married a gentleman by the name of William Magee in 1822. Their two eldest daughters Euretta and Marinda both married Kirks. The Kirk and Magee families lived in Leeds until the 1840’s when they migrated to the Huron Tract and settled northeast of London along with many other Leeds families. The Kirk family lots became the village of Kirkton in Usborne Twp. Huron County, Ontario. The Magees settled nearby and had 13 children of their own. After his death in February of 1828, at 79 years of age, William Read was buried on his farm near Frankville in Kitley Twp. Line 8. His life a testament to the indomitable will of the Loyalists who survived the losses and hardships of pioneer life to forge the foundation for a nation. This story was copied from the United Empire Loyalists’ Association of Canada, the information is from Donna Magee UE This story is of interest to us because Major Reid, resided in Kitley Township and is buried in the Montgomery Cemetery. There is no headstone for his grave. His story makes up part of our history and our heritage. Unfortunately no pictures exist of Major Read. For information on the Montgomery Cemetery go to our post on Cemeteries in Kitley S.S. No 2 & 3 in Young and S.S. No. 18 in Elizabethtown We are fortunate to have in our collection the Minute Book and Ledger for this school for the years 1877 to 1893. Unfortunately there are some pages missing and some so faded that they are un-readable. This book gives us some insight into the function of the school during this time period. The Expense Ledger is located in the middle of this page. Local School Tax Assessments by landholder is at the bottom of this page Teacher’s Contract for 1882 Memorandum of Agreement made this 31st day of January 1882 between the Public School Trustees of S.S. Nos. 2&3 Yonge and 28 Elizabethtown and Florence Sherwood of the Town of Brockville, the holder of a Third Class Certificate of Qualification as a Public School Teacher in Ontario as follows: The Trustees hereby employ for their said school such teacher at the yearly salary of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for the term of one year beginning on the first day of January one thousand eight hundred and eighty two and ending on the thirty-first day of December in the same year. And further agree that they and their successors in office will pay such salary to the said Teacher at least yearly, and will exercise all powers and perform all duties under the Public Schools Act, and Regulations of the Education Department which may be required for making such payment. The Teacher agrees with the said Public School Trustees to teach and conduct the said school during the said term according to the said Law and Regulations in that behalf. The foregoing is subject to the following conditions: (1) That the Teacher shall continue to be the holder of a legal Certificate of qualification as a Public School Teacher in Ontario (2) That holidays and vacations prescribed by the Law and Regulations are excepted from the said term (3) That the days on which the Teacher has attended the meetings of Teacher’s Association or Institutes as certified by the Inspector of Chairman thereof, shall be allowed her as if she had actually taught in the said School; and (4) That in case of sickness as certified by a registered Medical Practitioner, he shall be entitled to receive his salary without deduction for such period as may be authorized under the Statute in his behalf. The Trustees and the Teacher may at their option respectively terminate this agreement by giving notice in writing to the other of them at least ___ months previously and so as to terminate on the last day of a calendar month. This agreement shall also be construed to continue in force year to year, unless and until it is terminated by the notice herein before prescribed. As witness the Corporate Seal of the said Trustees and the hand and seal of the Teacher, on the day and year first above mentioned. Signed: Florence Sherwood, Teacher Trustees: G.A. Purvis; James Dickey; Nelson Forrester Teachers as per Record Book: 1877 Caroline A. Murray 1881 Hattie Davis, salary $250.00 1882 Florence Sherwood, of the Town of Brockville, salary $250. 1883 Jennie Robertson, of Augusta, salary $265.00 1884 Jennie Robertson, of Augusta, salary $265.00 1885 Jennie Robertson, of Augusta, salary $265.00 1886 Christine Wilson, salary of $300.00 1887 Jennie Madden of Delta , salary $280.00 1889 Jean Beatty of Lansdowne, salary of $300. 1889 A.R.Rowsom of Athens at $25. per month for the term beginning 19th August 1889 ending the 31st of December of the same year 1890 Edith Tennant of Caintown , salary of $275.00 Accounts Ledger for Yonge Mills School 1877 to 1893 1877 Credits Balance on hand from last account $17.48 Clergy Money $2.33 County Assessment for Yonge $27.00 County Assessment for Elizabethtown $2.66 Clergy Money for 1874 $1.00 Elizabethtown $1.00 Government Grant $24.08 Rate Bill for 1877 $316.95 Total: $391.50 Notes at end of page Bought of John Dickey eight cords hard wood at $2.75 per cord Bought of Anson McLean four cords soft wood at $1,75 per cord Bought of J.P.Buell 125 posts at $10, per hundred Bought twenty five hundred ft lumber at $10.00 per thousand one hundred lbs nails at $3.00 per hundred 1877 Debits Feb 8th paid John Dickey per James Dickey for wood $15.00 “ for postage and change of money $0.05 Feb 14th Bought one pail and dipper $0.50 postage $0.05 A. H. McLean for wood $7.00 paid J.P. Buell for posts $10.00 one broom $0.30 Paid H. Clow for building $16.00 Paid Teacher $15.00 Paid Teacher $24.08 Paid for posts $2.50 paid J.Phillips for repairing stove $1.50 paid for sawing 10 1/4 cords wood .45¢ per chord $4.62 Paid Henry Clow 50¢ extra for gateway $0.50 paid to H.McLean for lumber $1.30 paid to H.McLean for drawing lumber $5.00 paid for lumber 2500 ft $25.00 paid for 83 lbs nails at 3¢ per lb $2.61 paid for building fires $2.00 paid for cleaning School house $2.00 Paid Teacher $15.00 Paid Teacher $70.00 Paid interest on H. Clow’s note $0.56 paid for prize books $5.00 paid for collecting school bills $3.17 paid for wood John Dickey $1.50 paid Teacher in full $125.92 paid difference on J.McNish’s School bill $1.49 1878 Money Received balance on hand from last account $33.18 Municipal Assessment for Yonge $25.50 Municipal assessment for Elizabethtown $4.06 Aug Government grant for Yonge $21.86 Government grant for Elizabethtown $4.09 Dec School assessment for 1878 $248.18 Credits $336.87 Debits $328.39 Balance on Hand $16.38 1879 Money Received Balance on Hand from last account $16.38 Jan 16th Municipal Assessment for Yonge for 1878 $24.24 “ Municipal Assessment for Elizabethtown for 1878 $5.89 Aug Government Grant for Yonge $20.00 Government Grant for Elizabethtown $3.20 Dec School Assessment for Yonge $231.65 School Assessment for Elizabethtown $75.14 Total $376.50 Expenses $298.87 Balance on Hand $77.63 1879 Expenses Jan Postage $0.14 “ Broom $0.25 Feb Chalk $0.30 “ Paid Teacher $30.13 “ Paid A.H. McLean for Wood $16.00 June Dilaper [sic] from L.W. Coward $0.13 “ Paid Teacher $25.00 Aug Paid Teacher $23.20 “ buy a broom $0.30 Oct Three Window Curtains $1.60 “ Chalk $0.40 Nov 23rd Paid for sawing wood @ .35¢ per cord $3.50 Dec 23rd Paid Teacher $112.67 Dec 17th Paid Teacher $75.00 “ Interest on Note $0.75 “ Paid J.Scott for repairing grounds around house $3.50 “ W.Scott for building fires $2.00 Abe ?? For whitewashing and cleaning house $4.00 Total $298.87 1880 Money Received Balance on hand from last account $77.63 Jan 23rd Municipal Assessment for Yonge for 1879 $23.67 Municipal Assessment for Elizabethtown for 1879 $3.49 Juy 31st Government Grant for Yonge $17.69 “ Government Grant for Elizabethtown $2.34 Dec 20th School Assessment for Yonge $172.42 “ School Assessment for Elizabethtown $74.55 “ Government Grant for Elizabethtown $1.24 Dec 24th Received for Prize Books $0.60 total $373.63 expenses $344.69 Balance on hand $28.94 $7.40 Dollars to be collected on Yonge Mills Property 1881 Money Received Balance on Hand from last account $28.94 Jan 24th Municipal assessment for Yonge for 1880 $21.00 “ Municipal assessment for Elizabethtown for 1880 $5.02 June 13th Received from Council for use of School House $3.00 July 28th Government Grant for Yonge 1881 $19.76 “ Government Grant for Elizabethtown 1881 $3.10 Dec 24th School Assessment for Yonge $171.85 “ School Assessment for Elizabethtown $63.15 Balance $315.82 1881 Expenses Jan 8th For cleaning School House and after Election $2.50 Jan 29th 1 Box of chalk $0.35 Feb 2nd 5 cords of Soft Wood at $1.60 per cord $8.00 “ 5 cords hard wood at $2.50 per cord $12.50 Mar 3rd Two Brooms $0.50 April 7th paid insurance on School House $6.40 June 20th One pail $1.25 and dipper .13¢ $1.38 Aug 20th Cleaning School House $2.00 Aug 24th Paid Teacher $26.02 Aug 30th for postage $0.06 Oct 2nd Paid Teacher $22.86 Dec 1st Sawing 10 cords wood at .30¢ per cord and putting in shed .25¢ $3.25 Dec 23rd Paid Teacher in Full $201.12 Dec 27th Drawing Lumber from Lyn $0.75 Total $287.69 1882 Receipts Balance brought forward $28.13 Received .50¢ for door $0.50 March 18th Received from the Municipal Assessment for Elzabethtown in 1881 $2.24 April 5th Received from the Municipal Assessment for Yonge in 1881 $22.00 October 28th Government Grant for Yonge $20.86 Dec 5th Government Grant for Elizabethtown $3.60 Dec 22nd Received School Tax Yonge $183.00 Dec 26th Received School Tax Elizabethtown $76.11 Total $336.44 Expenses $274.34 Balance on Hand $62.10 1882 Expenses Paid F.Cowley for building fires for 1881 $2.00 Jan 9th Paid N.L Gardiner for cleaning the school $2.00 Jan 10th Paid John McKay for plastering $1.50 Jan 30th Paid Edwin Bagg for porch and repairs $16.68 March 1st Postage $0.06 “ 1 box Chalk $0.35 March 18th Paid Teacher $2.24 April 5th Paid Teacher $22.00 Sept 2nd 2 brooms $0.50 Oct Paid Teacher $20.85 Dec 5th Paid Teacher $3.60 Dec 18th Paid Clifford Kerr for building fires $1.25 Dec 22nd Paid as Final Payment to Teacher $201.31 Total expenses $274.34 1883 Credits Balance brought forward from last account $62.10 Dec 29th To cash for use of Schoolhouse for the municipal election 1882 $4.00 March 5, 1883 Received from Municipal assessment for Yonge $20.03 $20.03 June 4th Received from Township Treasurers for use of schoolhouse for Municipal Elections, 1883 $3.00 August 20th Received from Municipal assessment and Government Grant for Elizabethtown Montgomery / Harlem / Delta Cemetery– Concession 8, Lot 25 or 26 ,GPS: 44.713472, -75.990880- in field on private land. The Montgomery’s were the owners of a log cabin that was relocated from their farm to Highway 29, Frankville and eventually moved to Upper Canada Village. They along with others are buried on the old family farm. Gravesites in the Montgomery Cemetery Joseph Montgomery Sr. died 23 Dec. 1895 age 93 yrs. Margaret Montgomery died 20 Mar 1869 age 82 yrs. Joseph Montgomery Jr., died 24 Jul 1892, age 68 yrs Coleman, originally known for making lanterns, made over 30 different models of irons from 1929 to 1948. The myriad of fuel iron models manufactured by Coleman came in an assortment of enamel coloured finishes, such as turquoise, green, red, tan, and black. Perhaps the best known and most commonly found today is the “Cool Blue” enamel Coleman’s 4A gasoline iron. The Coleman’s No. 4 iron was a short-lived follow up to the No. 3 that was quickly redesigned as the 4A iron, devised for enhanced efficiency. It became an instant success. The Coleman 4A gasoline iron was much lighter than the previous ‘sad irons’ and no longer required to be heated on the stove or by charcoal. Instead, the pump was used to build up pressure in the fuel tank and a match was lit underneath the iron, making a flame inside the iron that would distribute the heat on the surface. Despite these benefits, fuels irons made ironing a potentially dangerous job. They had a very real possibility of causing a fire or exploding. Gas-pressure irons, that had been manufactured as early as 1900, were eventually replaced by electric-powered steam irons, circa the 1970s, as an affordable and safer alternative. The Long Beach Motel is the last stop on our drive through the southern part of Elizabethtown along Highway No. 2 going from East to west. This hotel is now gone and nothing remains of a building that held wedding receptions, dances, great meals and rooms for overnight travelers. It started out as a small two story hotel and restaurant with rooms attached. Unfortunately there was a fire and the eastern part of the building burned and was removed leaving only the main building hat now stands today. We are very short on the history of the Long Beach Motel, the name was later changed to The Flying Dutchman. The one thing that we do have are some photos of this one time great motel. A Brief History of Motels The 1950s and 1960s was the pinnacle of the motel industry in the United States and Canada. As older mom-and-pop motor hotels began adding newer amenities such as swimming pools or color TV (a luxury in the 1960s), motels were built in wild and impressive designs. In-room gimmicks such as the coin-operated Magic Fingers vibrating bed were briefly popular; introduced in 1958, these were largely removed in the 1970s due to vandalism of the coin boxes. The American Hotel Association (which had briefly offered a Universal Credit Card in 1953 as forerunner to the modern American Express card) became the American Hotel & Motel Association in 1963. As many motels vied for their place on busy highways, the beach-front motel instantly became a success. In major beach-front cities such as Jacksonville, Florida, Miami, Florida, and Ocean City, Maryland, rows of colorful motels such as the Castaways, in all shapes and sizes, became commonplace. [Wikipedia] Motel building boomed in the ‘50s and ‘60s and establishments began to offer families the adventure they were seeking right at the site. Tourists could engage in recreation at the motel site, keep their cars outside the door, lock their belongings in the room, and employ a chain lock to keep out intruders; adventure and security offered in one package. The enormously popular Holiday Inn formula moved the trend in lodging more toward the old hotel form and started eroding the original motel form. Motels bypassed by the interstate system left once thriving businesses [America’s Roadside Lodging: The Rise and Fall of the Motel Lori Henderson] Here was another popular place to stay if you were travelling along Highway No. 2 in the 1950’s and 60’s. The Brock Tourist Villa was on located on the north side of the highway just east of the now Hwy 401. Very popular in its’ day when staying in these small cabins was the only way to travel. “A 1927 New York Times article declared “touring motorists can now sleep in bungalows if they do not want to pitch tents—large roadside industry developed.” Precursors to the motel, these cabin camps were only the beginning of a large roadside industry. The article reported that the growth of the bungalow camp “has been sensational” particularly in the west and that “these camps are nearly all privately owned and they are in direct competition to the municipal camp.” This article also foretold the future of competition among roadside cabin camps and their descendants, the motel, describing the different amenities provided by different proprietors. Some operators brought guests flowers and others provided hot water.” [1] [1]America’s Roadside Lodging: The Rise and Fall of the Motel by Lori Henderson Lori Henderson This building is now a private residence located on the south side of Highway No.2 just east of the Halleck’s Road. It was operated as a restaurant in the late 50’s or early 60’s. Unfortunately at this time we don’t have much history on the business If anyone knows anything about this we would appreciate hearing from you. Heading west along No. 2 highway the next place you would come to would be on the river side of the highway. A good place to spend the night or a few days vacation as they had cabins and a small beach on the river. The court was operated in the 1950’s and 60’s. With the introduction of ‘motels’ and the opening of Highway 401 in the mid 1960’s the traffic along Highway 2 decreased and so did their business. The village of Lyn is situated in the Pre-Cambrian Shield six miles west of Brockville and one hundred and forty one miles west of Montreal. In relation to the St. Lawrence it is three miles north of the point where the ship channel crosses from the Canadian side to the American side, called by the inhabitants “The Five Mile Light” or “Cole’s Ferry” From the time of the first settlement on the rocky ledges covered with rough scraggy timber, the name of Coleman was connected with this place, in fact until the year 1837 it was known by the name of “Coleman’s Corners”. The Leavitt’s History of Leeds and Grenville says “Able Coleman, the man who caused two blades of grass to grow where before there was only one, is characterised as a public benefactor.” It would seem that he started his first mill in 1788, the date inscribed upon the first millstone, but when government rations were with held after the second year of the settlement’s establishment, he sold the village site to a Mr. Haleck for a small sum and then went to Montreal to work at his trade as a tanner. With his earnings he bought a cow, returned to Coleman’s Corners and became a miller, tanner and farmer. The oldest inscription in the Lyn Cemetery reads: “In Memory of Able Coleman, who departed this life in Full Assurance of Eternal Life, April 25th, 1810” Richard Coleman bought the town-site from Mr. Halleck for he conceived the idea that it would be a fine place for a manufacturing town. It was surveyed into lots in 1813. The first house was built in 1814 by Mr. Brownson for a hotel. The same house is now occupied by (Mrs. Stephen Boyce) Mr. Charlie Lewis, although it has been remodelled and changed hands many times since then. The house now occupied by Mr. Widdis. Mr. Mel Davidson was the second one built the original builder being Capt. Stuart, and army captain. For the next score of years the village made rapid progress under the pushing energies of its owners, Messrs. Coleman. In 1820 a frame grist mill was erected and although not conducted on the roller system it was a great boon to the countryside. In 1837 the question of the name of the village came to the fore. “Lowell” was its new designation, no doubt because many of the settlers were sons of U.E. Loyalists, and still had tender recollections of their native state of Massachusetts. It was soon discovered however that another village in Ontario bore the same name, and it was necessary to change the name again “Lyn” was thought an appropriate one, for the word, lin, being the Scotch name of a waterfall. In 1838 a new grist mill, larger and of improved design, replaced the earlier one. This original mill is now the Post Office and store. In 1841 a saw mill was erected. Then a tannery for the manufacture of sole leather, as well as one for the manufacture of uppers. The manufacturing of the year 1844 was given as no less than $500., all of which was consumed within the province, the raw hides being what was termed “Spanish” and imported from the United States, some of them weighing when ready for market. 45 pounds. The Recorder of 1850 says “Thanks to the Colemans, Lyn has the most celebrated and extensive tanning establishment in the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville.” There were at this time employed by the Colemans between 30 and 40 men whose wage amounted in one year from $1500.- $1750. The majority of these men were transients, a number coming from Montreal. They lived in shacks – some on the mill road and others back of the pond. Other industries in Lyn about the same time were shoe, whip, comb and stave makers as well as a flax mill and a brickyard which made Lyn one of the best paying stations on the Grand Trunk Railway. Lyn, although not celebrated as a seat of learning, has always had a good school. The first one was situated near where the lath factory stood and was used until it became too small for the fast increasing population. The house next used was situated near Mr. Halliday’s store. The brick one was then built and used until 1867 when the stone one now in use was built. The social activities of the village were many. There were dances, a number of them formal, and the store being stocked with rich and expensive materials which were made up by local dressmakers. The dances and entertainment were held in the Buell and Pergan halls. There was a club called the Quintet Club, consisting of five young men-about-town who were the chief instigators of these affairs Skating on the Pond was the main sport in winter, and a game like hockey was played with sticks made from branches of trees. The church played an important part in social the life of the village. There were parties for the children at New Year’s and the tea meetings were very popular, being like our church suppers with a program given by the local talent. In the summer there were picnics, people going by boat to Alexandra Bay, and later by the Brockville and Westport Railway to Westport. In 1849 an Agricultural Society Fair was held, with prizes offered for horses and cattle and domestic manufactures, agricultural implements and ploughman ship with Charles Booth as Secretary. In June of the same year between 500 and 600 people attended a public meeting for the promotion of temperance. Speeches were given by Canadian and American speakers and the “Sons of Temperance” appeared in their regalia. Until 1855 the Colemans had water for their mills from natural sources, but with the cutting of the forests, the supply was reduced. Then they bought the wild land running back from Lyn for six to eight miles, and converted marshes and shallow lakes into a series of reservoirs, canals being cut and dams erected. In the Fellows’ Directory of 1866, we find Lyn described as a thriving and progressive village, a station of the Grand Trunk Railway. The prosperity was due to a large extent to the manufacturing’s, of which James Cumming was agent. The boot and show factory was the most recent addition to the business and was sufficiently extensive to require the services of between 40 and 50 men. The local stores were described as commodious and well stocked with merchandise of every description. The best example of this is given by an advertisement in the Fellows’ Directory which reads thus: “A.T. Trickey, druggist, general merchant, Main street, Lyn, manufactures of two conditioning powders for horses and cattle, has established correspondence with a reliable House in Montreal, receives direct from them in regular supplies which enables him to offer great advantages to the Counties’ trade.” The Dominion Directory of 1871 gave Lyn a population of 750 and just ten years later the Lovell’s Business and Professional Directory of Ontario gave the population as only 300. The Grand Trunk Railway (CNR) owned the sand pit but in 1940 Wells Simpson bought it from the railroad. The Brockville- Westport Railway was begun in 1885 and finished in 1888. Then on Saturday, August 30, 1952 the line was discontinued. Mr. Tobin was the last station master in Lyn. The old red brick schoolhouse mentioned previously was burned down several years ago but was rebuilt using the same walls. It is just across the road from the present school and is now a private dwelling. Just besides this building is another old landmark. It used to be an old rough-cast hotel by Mr. Gilleclain but is now occupied by Miss Florence Roberts. Beside this hotel there were four others – one just on the corner which was the Dr. Brown house, and one known as Stack’s Hotel, which was burned 26 years ago (1939). The double house owned by Charles Lewis and the rough-cast house where Jock Stewart lives were both very old hotels. A very old bakeshop was located behind the Coon Bake shop (now closed) in what was known as the Baxter Block. There was another bakeshop back of the Oddfellows’ building. Then J.C.Cumming built the stone building across from Herbison’s blacksmith’s shop. It is now a dwelling owned by Mr. Baillie, an old Irish sailor and his daughter Rhoda. Lyn also had its own blacksmith shop. One was located behind the Coon Bakery. It was first run by George Stratton and then Bill Yates. Charles Herbison bought it from the latter and then sold out to Bill Wiley. Charles Herbison bought the old carriage shop about 25 years ago (1940) from Bill Tennant who had it for years. The stores in Lyn were handed down from family to family. Joshua Lillie ran the post office and store, sold to Mort Gardiner, and then to Omar Mallory who shared with Walter Billings. The latter ran it after Mr. Mallory’s death. These were all relations. Then Kenneth Bolton bought it and sold it to B.H.Bishop. The post office was given to Blake Mott (after Mr. Billings) and located where the W.I. is now in the Oddfellows’ building. Then David McCrady had it in connection with his hardware store in the Mason’s building. Then last year it went to Earl Miller. The Buell store was owned first by Mills and McManus from Morrisburg, then George Buell, finally James Greer. Ray Stewart bought it and converted it into a garage. The Belsile store was first a harness shop owned by Stelton Horton, changed to grocery owned by R.P. Boyd. Then William Laverty converted it into a barbershop and sold to Robert Willey who operated a meat shop there. William Quinn and Heaslip ran it for a while and then changed it into a residence. It was a general store run by Belisle. The McCrady store was owned and operated by: first A.T.Trickey, second Mort Gardiner, third C.M.Taylor, fourth John McCrady. Then John’s son Dave took over and after him his brother Frank who sold it to Earl Miler. The old Pregau store was originally a shoe making store. Alex Pergau was the shoe maker and then Jim who did mostly repairing. The building is now just a dwelling. There have been several attempts made to have an organized sports programme. Below the Green Hill, across from the Mill, was a Tan Bark, over 70 years ago. It was burned and for some time was a baseball diamond and in winter a boarded in skating rink. About 15 years ago (1950) a rink was built behind Miller’s Store and again a few years ago another attempt was made but both failed because it was too hard to get good ice. The Jr. Farmers had a ball team for a couple of years recently. There is no Catholic Church in Lyn. They go in to their own church in Brockville but they have now purchased the old Methodist church and plan to have their own church here. There are a number of Lodges, namely, the Masons, the Oddfellows, and the Rebecca’s. There is also a Women’s Institute and a Young Peoples’ Union. The early settlers did not neglect the religious side of their life. Although they did not have a church, they held services in halls or houses. The first church was built by the Methodist body on the spot where the Church of England sheds now stand. It was the only church for miles around and people used to walk or ride long distances to attend a ‘quarterly meeting.” It would seem that this church was used by other denominations, who did not have a church of their own at that time, and it was sometimes spoken of as the “Union Church.” Maurice Brown in a letter states that he believed the first Methodist Conference to be held in Eastern Ontario of the Methodist Episcopal Church was held in it and most of the delegates were from New York State, and that a number of Bishops were in attendance. James Cumming told me when he first came to Lyn it was the only church in the village, that my grandmother used to sit in a rocking chair in front of the seats and rock and say “Amen” and “Bless the Lord.” The Methodist Episcopal Church for some unknown reason left this site and built a brick church on top of the hill above Lyn on the way to Lillie’s. The only ministers names which we can find associated with this church are Gifford, Perley, Brown (maybe also Mr. McDowell and Mr. Ainsworth). At the tie of union in 1884 of the Wesleyan Methodist and the Methodist Episcopal, to quote from Maurice Brown’s letter again “In Lyn the usual difficulty was experienced. As very often happens as to the choice of a church when they could not agree in Lyn, the Board of Wall St. Church was asked to come and make the choice. They did so and unanimously selected the one by the school which was a very fortunate decision as I will explain to you. There was a church funeral for a man who lived where Grant Hudson lives at present. A very severe windstorm came up and the Methodist Episcopal Church blew down. It was the bricks from that church that built the present Glen Buell edifice.” The Presbyterians were the next to organize. Their first service was held in the ballroom of the Bronson Hotel and conducted by the Rev. William Smart, who was one of the pioneers of religion than whom no man did more for the moral and religious interests of the people for, as it is said “so long as the children of the original settlers maintain their memories. The name of Rev. William Smart will e held dear by them.” A Sabbath school was also organized in this same room by Mr. Smart and Adiel Sherwood, who was at one time Sheriff of Brockville. Services were held occasionally in the old Methodist Church and then in Pergau’s Hall until the church was built. It was only a mission station until the year 1855, when Rev. Robert McKenzie was given the charge. Rev. R.McKenzie was succeeded by Rev. John Burton who was later pastor of the Northern Congregational Church, Toronto. Then for six years the Presbyterians were without a settled minister until 1874 when Rev. Arch Brown was called and settled here. The Lyn section of the Presbyterian congregation resolved in the autumn of 1874 to build a church and the work in connection therewith was commenced in April 1875. Donor of the building site was James M.Cassels, M.D., of Quebec, Robert Cassel was chairman. The building committee was composed of James Cumming, Chairman, Robert Bryson, treasurer, John Halliday and James Bulloch, James Hamilton, Archibald Davidson, Peter Purvis and John McNish. The architect was W.G. Thomas, Montreal, and the contractors Hugh McKay, Joshua Franklin and William Whitton, masonry and plastering, Edwin Bagg. The building is stone, covered with slate, of the Gothic Order with an auditorium of 60 x 34. The vestry, in rear, is 10 x 16, and tower on side 14×14. Total cost was about $4000. From “Evening Records” Brockville, Thursday, May 15, 1875 – “On Friday afternoon the 7th inst. The cornerstone of a new church for the Presbyterian congregation at Lyn was laid by the Rev. William Smart of Gananoque, assisted by the Rev. Archibald Brown, Rev. James Hastie of Prescott and the Rev John Burton of Belleville. The weather being favourable a large assembly gathered to witness the interesting ceremony. Copies of the Recorder (daily and weekly, Monitor, Montreal and Toronto newspapers and current coins of the Dominion were deposited in the stone, together with the engraved copy of the following: “Memorial –In the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost on the 7th day of May in the year of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, in the thirty-eight year of the reign of Victoria, and while the Right Honorable the Earl of Dufferin was Governor-General of the Dominion of Canada and the Hon. John Crawford Lt. Governor of the Prov. Of Ont. This cornerstone of Christ Church, Lyn in connection with the Canadian Presbyterian Church was laid by the Rev. Wm. Smart of Gananoque.” A few of the first settlers of Yonge, Elizabethtown and Augusta, deploring the want of religious ordinance, applied at the beginning of the present century to the London Missionary Society to have a missionary or minister to settle over them. The directors of the Society recommended Rev. Wm. Smart who had just completed his theological study at Gossport to accept the call implied in the petition, and offered to pay his passage and outfit. Mr. Smart, having acceded to the proposal, and having been ordained in the Scotch Church, Swallow St., London, arrived in Elizabethtown (no Brockville) in October 1811 and commenced his ministerial labours there extending them to Coleman’s Corners, Yonge and Augusta In 1812 the people under his care were formed into a regular ministerial charge. In 1846 he resigned the charge of Brockville, but continued to preach for some time to the rural part of the congregation. Coleman’s Corners (Lyn) was, after Mr. Smart left the district, supplied with preaching by the Rev. Mr. McMurray and the Rev.J.K.Smith who succeeded the charge of Brockville. The first minister of Lyn and Yonge was the Rev. Robt. McKenzie who remained from July 5th 1859 to 1862. He was succeeded by the Rev. John Burton, who was ordained on November 17, 1864. Under Mr. Burton’s pastorate the congregation of Fairfield was united with Lyn and Yonge. Mr. Burton accepted a call from the congregation at Prescott on Feb 4, 1868. After his departure the Fairfield congregation was separated from Lyn and Yonge and the charge remained vacant yill May 19, 1874 when the Rev. Archibald Brown was inducted. He office bearers being: Elders, Jas. Hamilton, John Halliday, James McNish, John Dickey, Jacob Warren and Wm. Forrester. Board of Managers: Robert Bryson, Treasurer: James Cumming, Archibald Davidson, John Armstrong, Peter Purvis and James Bulloch. Trustees of Church Property: Robt. Bryson, Peter Purvis, James Hamilton and James Cumming. The chief subscriber was James Cumming who promised twice the amount given by any other donor. All the pews were numbered on brass plates affixed to the pew. At the right and left of the pulpit are square pews which had a certain social distinction. The right one was occupied by the Manse family, and the one on the left by th Cassells family who gave the land to the church for one dollar. At the rear of the church is a magnificent memorial window placed by the Cassells family. It was imported from Belgium in 1875 and placed there when the church was dedicated. Underneath the centre panel of this window is their coat of arms. The church was dedicated by Rev. Dr.MacVicar, the principal of the Presbyterian College, Montreal on Feb. 6, 1876 and was known as Christ Church and was so registered in the deed of the property. The offering at the opening amounted to $146.00. The proceeds of the tea meeting amounted to $240. The bill advertising this meeting is in good preservation at the Manse. The communion cloths used for the covering of the front pew are still in good condition and were used when the Presbytery met here in 1950. The Baptismal Font was presented by James Cumming in memory of his wife and is of Italian marble. It was placed in the church in 1893. The pulpit was hand made by the uncle of George A.McNish (elder for over 40 years) in 1876. It was a labor of love as it took over a year to make. The church bell was brought over the frozen St. Lawrence in 1870 and weighs half a ton. It was first put in the Wesleyan Methodist Church but when in 1939 the congregation moved from that church to Christ Church the bell was also moved. The cost of the bell today would be more than $1500. In 1916 Anniversary Services were held. The following excerpt being taken from a paper owned by Miss Mary Cumming, Lyn, March 1, 1916: “The 40th Anniversary Services of Christ Church, Lyn, was conducted by the Rev. S.G. Brown of Almonte on 27th inst. The Methodist Church cancelled their service in the morning so that all could attend and commemorate the opening of Christ Church in Lyn 40 years ago. The Rev. Gentleman in the morning spoke on “Influence of the Hill” in furnishing inspirations to Christians in all ages. The first Pres. Missionary to Lyn came from the Hills of Scotland sent out by the London Missionary Society in 1811. He held his first service in the Court House in Brockville in the morning and preached in the upper room of a tavern in Lyn in the afternoon nearly 105 years ago. After 65 years of faithful services between Kingston and Cornwall the Rev. Wm. Smart gave his last public address at the opening of Christ Church, Lyn, 40 years ago. The old members who took art in the opening of the church 40 years ago, were taken to the Hilltop by Mr. Brown’s stirring sermon and with the presence of their Methodist brethren, notwithstanding the storm raging without, the uplifting power of God’s presence was felt in this Anniversary Service. At the evening meeting Mr. Brown spoke most touchingly of the Heroism of Canadians in the present crisis and craved the prayers of all for a new consecreation for God, King and Empire. Mr. Brown’s eldest son having given up his life as an offering for his country, with the Princess Patricia’s, gave point to his words of cheer and comfort for those whose friends are now fighting the battles of the Empire. His eloquent, uplifting discourses last Sabbath will linger in the memories of the worshippers of Christ Church.” At the time of Union in 1925 the Presbyterians and the Methodists decided to use the Methodist church, but as the years went by it was decided to move back to the Presbyterian Christ Church, for the costs of repairs became so extensive to the Methodist church when it was hit by lightening twice. In keeping with this decision renovation of Christ Church was begun. This included digging and extension of a cellar in order to have a Sunday School room and kitchen. Following this renovation, which cost over $4000. which was paid off in two years, Dr. Kent of Queen’s University re-opened and dedicated Christ Church in October 1939. Since this time six memorial windows have been installed adding greatly to the atmosphere of worship with God’s house. The membership of this Church has altered since 1940 from a rural congregation to a suburban one since so many of the congregation work in the different plants in Brockville and live in Lyn. The list of ministers which has served Christ Church is as follows: (Before the building of the church) Rev. Wm. Smart 1811-1846; Rev. Mr. McMurray, Rev. J.K. Smith, Rev. Robert McKenzie 1859-1862, Rev. John Burton 1864-1868, Rev. Archibald Brown 1874- ?; Rev. J.J. Richardson; who was the first minister called after the church was built in Rev. A. Brown’s term of office. Rev. J.J Wright; Rev. Chas. Daly, Rev C.E.A.Pocock 1916-?, Dr. D.M.McLeod, Rev Mr. Gardiner, Rev Mr. McCrea till Union in 1925. Rev R.A. Delve 1929-35, Rev A.S. Doggett 1935-40 when Chrisy Church was reopened. Rev H.B. Herrington 1940-42, Rev C.K. Mathewson 1942-59 (the present) Records in connection with the early history of Lyn congregation are scarce and we have to rely on the memory of those who knew in their early years or learned from the lips of the older generation, the facts connected with the origin of St. John the Baptist Church. The first trace of an Anglican service in this locality is found in connection with a “United Church” which stood where the Anglican church sheds now stand (these have been removed, but position would be about one hundred yards east of the church). There are in St. John’s Church at present a pair of wooden collection plates with “St. Paul’s Church, Lyn” written on them. Whether we take this as evidence that the Union Church was called St. Paul’s or not does not alter the fact that tradition states that it was the first in these parts, several denominations, including the Quakers, using this old “Union Church” as a place of worship. The Church of England Services there were conducted by Rev John Stannage, who came from New Dublin to officiate. The fate of this building is not known to those who supplied the previous information, but for some reason the Anglican services were transferred to Pergau’s Hall in the present Pergau bock in Lyn. There Dr. Lewis, Rev. Stannage and Rev. Mr. Jones held services while the present church was in the course of construction. The construction did not proceed very rapidly as the Brockville Recorder points out in its article on the subject “That the number of people holding Anglican views in this community were few.” In the course of ten years from 1858 to 1869, the work lingered for some time only the basement being finished, i.e. foundation. Then renewed efforts completed the task in August 1869. On Sept. 1, 1869 it was opened by Bishop Lewis. In the period of construction James Coleman of Coleman Brothers, the millers of Lyn, were particularly active. It is reported that Peter Pergau supplied the lime for the building, that the rough stone was quarried on the B.C. Brown place now owned by Joseph Bolin, while the dressed stone came from Hector Bradfield pace east of Brockville and was dressed by a stone cutter named Dyer, and was teamed to Lyn by the men of the congregation. Also, that Edwin Bagg who lived where C. Imerson now lives had the contract for the carpentry work. The stone fence in front of the church was built by George Monteith, who lived in Lyn and is buried here. At the opening service in 1869, Dr. Lewis, former rector of St. Peter’s Brockville, and then the Bishop of the Diocese of Ontario, was present and confirmed a large class. Other clergy present included Rev. John Carroll of Gananoque, Rev. G.J. Low of Delta, Mr. Denroche of Arnprior and Mr Cook of North Augusta. The following clergy have given of their services to the church during the past years: Kearney L. Jones, Henry Auston, G.W.G. Grout 1881, T.A. Smith 1901, J.D.P. Wright 1912, John Lyons 1917, T.F. Dowdell 1925, A.E.U. Smart 192, Ernest Teskey 1926-33, F.O. Ware 1933-41, R.M. Savory 1941-42, R.S. Foreman 1942-44, A.B. Caldwel 1944, E. LeGrow 1944-45, J.B. Hall 1945-47, F. Payne 1947-50, J.M.Cameron 1950 – Lyn has become a residential village for the people who work in Brockville and commute every day by car or bus. Lyn has lost its importance as a manufacturing village and it can never hope to be the site of large factories for it has no waterfront nor railway terminal. Its future lies in its growth as a village for workers who wish to live in the quiet of the country, when the St. Lawrence Seaway is finished which will bring with it the extension of manufacturing sites along the shores of the river. The Church has a vital function to perform in such an industrial residential area for it must bring to those people who do a monotonous factory job a wider vision of life, its worth and its meaning, for this is the only institution which cares for other than material values in the lives of these people. The sad part is that many of these people have become so busy with the material on every day and all days that they do not take the interest in the church which the first hardy founders of this village did. It thus provides the church with an opportunity and a challenge which I am sure the Spirit of God will use for the furthering of God’s Kingdom. A story about growing up in the 1950’s By Ellery Edgeley It could never be said, we kids were ever bored, or, had nothing to do! Regardless of the fact we lived in a smallvillage in the country, some activity or interesting diversion could always be found, to entertain ourselves, and occupy our recreational time. Typical of young children, we discovered a new and very different way of having fun, spending a few hours just relaxing, and, at the same time, touring the country side. Each day, Monday through Friday, the mail had to be delivered to the surrounding rural areas of Lyn, and this particular job belonged to a man named Mr. Ladd. Early every morning he would pick up the mail from the post office at Miller’s General Store, load his truck and head out to the back areas to deliver it. During the summer holidays one of the kids, who happened to be hanging around the store, asked Mr. Ladd, if he could go along, and assist him with the mail, and he agreed. This, as it turned out would be of great help, because now, if the mail box was located on the right hand side of the road, the truck pulled over and the helper could put the mail into the box, thus saving Mr. Ladd, from having to put the truck out of gear, hold the brake, lean over and place it in himself. The truck he drove was an old dark blue 1930’s Chevrolet with a square cab designed to hold two people, and on the back it had a large platform enclosed by front and side racks, probably used at one time to haul cans of milk. Having this helper along became a daily practice. Some of the other kids found out about these little jaunts their friend was making, so they asked Mr. Ladd if it would be all right if they could come along too, and being the good soul he was agreed. It wasn’t long before word spread, and soon the back of that old truck was beginning to fill up with anywhere from six to over a dozen kids. I honestly believe, even it there had been twenty or more kids, wanting to climb aboard and ride along, Mr. Ladd would have found some way of piling every one on. And the group was not all boys. This was one activity in which boys and girls joined together and shared the fun. Mr. Ladd usually departed from the general store around 9:30 a.m. so everyone would have to be there shortly before then. As a rue, most kids our age are not early risers and hate to get out of bed in the morning, especially during the summer holidays, but there was always a couple who would be there at 8:00 anxious to get underway. One, by one, each of us would saunter up to the gathering place, some still half asleep, and wait, as Mr. Ladd sorted his load of mail. There was one particular chap, named Dickie, who on many a day managed to just barely make it on time. Everyone would begin yelling for him to hurry up, and he would come running down the street, still munching away on his peanut butter and toast. His hair would be uncombed, sticking straight up, and he appeared as though he had slept in his clothes all night. Just as the truck started up, Dickie would jump up onto the back with the help of many hands. The entire rural route usually took about three hours to complete. The long duration of time it took was probably due to the fact that very road travelled was dirt, with the exception of about half a mile. On hot, dry summer days a long cloud of dust trailed the mail truck as it journeyed along with its cargo of mail and kids. Leaving the village, we headed west into the country which contained some of the most beautiful dairy farms to be seen anywhere. In their lush green pastures, large herds of Holstein cows, along with a sprinkling of Jerseys could be seen grazing, while other fields contained clover and sprouts of corn. There were fields of uncut hay and its tall strands flowed like waves in a sea of green, as gentle summer breezes blew across them. The air had what we called, “that farm smell”, a combination of hay, silage and manure. Farmers were always busy working, whether on a tractor or driving a team of horses, but sometimes if they were near the road, they would often stop and come over for a short visit with Mr. Ladd and we kids. It didn’t take long, and after a few trips, we got to know everyone on the mail route. Not all of the homes on the route belonged to farmers; countless others were owned by people who were employed in the Town of Brockville. Besides travelling by farms the route also wound its way through heavily wooded areas, and in some places ran parallel to a couple of beautiful lakes. During those long, hot summer days, only one thing ever stopped us group of kids from making the daily trip. Rain! On these days, only a helper went. But the rest of the time, the number always varied. As the days passed, we all became closer, like a family. We’d tell stories, make up games to play, and sing all kinds of songs. Riding in the open air with the wind blowing in our faces was thrilling and refreshing. There were a couple of spots o the route, where apple trees grew next to the road, and late in the summer they would start to bear apples. Mr. Ladd would sometimes pull off to the side of the road under them, and let us pick a few to eat. At this time of year, they were still quite green so we didn’t eat that many. No one wanted to get a stomach ache or worse. Most times, we’d just use them for target practice, throwing at a tree of large boulder in a field. As I mentioned, the mail route ran through several heavy wooded areas, and one particular road on it was called ‘The Devil’s Door’ road. Located in the Yonge Mills area about five miles west of Lyn, it derived its name from the fact that it possessed a secret doorway to the bowels of the earth, and Devil himself. A short distance from the road an entrance to a passage-way could be seen, running between towering, deep crevice, rock edges on each side. Tall trees and a heavy concentration of thick brush shrouded the entire area in darkness, giving it a frightening, foreboding look, as if to warn any curious or daring soul, they should proceed no further. Should one be foolish enough to do so, they could be in grave, perilous danger. Wild stories were abound, of individuals, who had dared fate to enter ‘The Devil’s Door’ never to be seen again. It had been said to, that young children in particular should stay far away from the area, and never, never, venture too close, because the Devil would get them, and take them back to the centre of the earth. Each morning that old mail truck full of kids, had to pass by ‘The Devil’s Door’! Every day, as we approached and passed by, everyone on the truck would stare at that entrance in fear, and pray that the old truck wouldn’t break down or quit right there. Once by we all breathed a little easier. Sometimes as we neared the door Mr. Ladd would slow down the truck, and holler ot and ask, if anyone wanted to get off and see the Devil. There was never any response; there were no brave takers on that truck. Still we were curious. Deep down inside, we all knew we wanted to see what was hiding beyond that entrance. The question was, were we brave enough! Finally after much deliberation, we had all decided that the time had come. We should enter ‘The Devil’s Door’! The next morning we all gathered at Miller’s General Store, excited and ready to follow through with our planned escapade. With new found courage, we asked Mr. Ladd, if he would stop at ‘The Devil’s Door’, and take us in. He paused for a few seconds, glanced around at the dozen wide eyed kids and asked. “Are you sure you want to go in there? The Devil might get all of you kids!” At the moment we were still in village and everyone was brave, so without hesitation, a chorus of voices hollered out. “We’re not afraid of the devil, we’ll go in! There’s no devil there anyway.” With a twinkle in his eyes, Mr. Ladd agreed. “OK, I’ll stop and take you in, but remember, I warned you.” Everyone piled onto the back of the old mail truck and in boisterous, wild chatter we all began saying what we’d do when we got to the door and came face to face with the devil. As we pulled away, we secretly wondered if we’d ever see the village again. A short distance from Lyn, we began making our first mail drops. ‘The Devil’s Door’ was still about a half hours drive yet, but the closer we got the more silent everyone became. There was no more brave talk or singing. Each person was quietly wrapped up in their own thoughts. As the truck turned onto ‘Devil’s Door’ road, all the bravery suddenly seem to dissipate. Everyone’s mind went into high emotional gear, conjuring up all kinds of wild notions and scenarios, about what may lie in waiting ahead. With intent eyes, we scanned the woods, expecting at any moment now, for a red man with horns, goatee and long sharp pointed tail, to leap out and pounce on all of us defenceless children. With his three pronged spear, he would force us deep into the bowels of the earth. The old truck rounded a slight bend in the road and came to a stop. There it was! The ‘Devil’s Door’! Now, as we stood in the safety of the truck, it looked more foreboding and sinister than ever before. Mr. Ladd turned the motor off, and got out of the truck. The silence was deafening. What if it wouldn’t start up again? Maybe we should leave while there was still time. Besides, I don’t recall seeing a rural mail box here on the side of the road with the name ‘Satan’ emblazoned on it, indicating a stop. “All right, who’s coming”, Mr. Ladd invited us. For a few second, no one spoke or moved. “I’ll go” came a voice, not exactly exuding a tone of courage. One by one, individuals climbed down from the truck, until a meagre total of seven brave soles gathered beside Mr. Ladd. Four boys and three girls. “What’s the mater?”. He asked, “Doesn’t anybody else want to come?” As the rest of us cowered in the back of the truck, I said “No Thanks, I can se it fine from right here.” No sense in chancing fate, I thought; all of those stories we heard, might just be true. I wasn’t about to be taken by the devil, down into the dark abyss of the earth, and hell below, sentenced to an eternity of stoking furnaces or worse. I was almost certain I hadn’t committed and sins recently, but then, maybe I had. Just to be on the safe side, I’d better not go. Better safe than sorry. As I looked around, it was relieving to see, that I was not the only smart person on board that truck. Or should I say, coward! Someone should stay behind anyway, in case something terrible did happen, we could go for help or let relatives know what had happened, when the others failed to return. All we could do now was watch, as Mr. Ladd, led the seven foolhardy, ‘would be’ adventures, into ‘The Devil’s Door’, and beyond. Slowly, they moved ever so carefully along the front of the towering stone walled ledge which ran up to the door and disappeared into the darkness beyond. This was probably, the last time we would ever see our friends again. We waited for what seemed an eternity. “Maybe we should holler and see if they’re OK!” someone peeped up. “No! Keep quiet! Do you want the Devil to know we’re here?” So we waited. Sitting there I knew that I had made the right decision not to go. Suddenly, screams came from somewhere deep in ‘The Devil’s Door’. Now, the screams verified I had been right. “What are we going to do?” Somebody yelled “Let’s get out of here!” All eyes were focused on the door entrance. “No. We have to wait for them.” The terrified screams continued, and before we could move someone came bolting out from the entrance. It’s always been said that boys can run faster than girls, this day proved it. For boys came blasting for dear life, out from the darkness and towards the safety of the truck and their waiting comrades. “Where’s everyone else?” Then came the three screaming girls, scrambling like the devil himself were chasing them. “What happened?” we demanded. Everyone was trembling with excitement! Still huffing and puffing to catch their breath, they quickly related their horrifying experience beyond the door way. Once they were deep inside the dark passage-way, surrounded by hugh trees, someone though they had seen what might have been the Devil himself. Mr. Ladd had seen the person or object first and warned the rest and, it was then that everyone began to scream and run for their lives and safety. “Oh no!” someone shouted. “Where’s Mr. Ladd? The Devil got him!” Now we were all doomed for sure we thought. Suddenly a relieved voice cried out. “There he comes, he’s OK! The devil didn’t get him.” Funny but Mr. Ladd didn’t seem to have the same urgency to run fro the entrance that the others did. As we watched him walk toward the truck, everyone was wishing he would hurry faster so we could get as far away from that spot as quickly as possible. “Where’d everybody go?” he asked.” I though you wanted to see the Devil and his passage-way.” No one spoke a word. We just stood in the back of the truck and stared at the entrance, waiting to see if the Devil was coming after us. As Mr. Ladd opened the door, and climbed into his truck, I could not help but notice a wide mischievous grin on his face. It was then that I began to wonder, just who the real devil might be. Much to our relief, the old mail truck fired up and slowly we crept away from “The Devil’s Door”. We kids continued to ride along on that mail route for the rest of the summer, but every day when we passed by ‘The Devil’s Door’, everyone fell silent. To compound our fears, and apprehension, every so often, Mr. Ladd would slow down as if he were going to stop, and then ever so slowly drive on. The subject of ‘The Devil’s Door’ was never brought up again. It had been a fun and mist unforgettable summer, but it came to an end. September meant we kids had to return to school, leaving Mr. Ladd to drive the rural mail route alone, without our help and company. In some ways it was probably a relief for him, not to have a bunch of noisy kids along, but then, being the kind of man he was, I think he truly missed us. And now, the dark old blue mail truck, with its load of carefree children and our eerie, creepy visit to ‘The Devil’s Door’, are happy memories, from a time long ago. My first drive in Eastern Ontario was on a June afternoon. My Mother, my two brothers, Herbert and Roy, and myself had arrived at Brockville only that morning and had been met by my father who had several months before accepted a position of district manager of the present Mutual Life Assurance Co. of Canada. We were the guests of his old time friend, John Elliott, on the staff of the Brockville Collegiate. It happened to be Circus day and so that morning I stood on Pearl St. and witnessed my first Circus parade, and shuddered with terror and delight as I saw the huge lumbering elephants and the cages with ions and other wild animals. In the Early afternoon we had our first drive out to our new home in Lyn. I can still remember the exclamations of my mother over the beauty of the winding creek near the Billings’ home which always attracts my attention today. When we reached the stucco covered old stone house that father had rented from Mr. Nelson Shipman we found that it was still in the process of being painted by Mr. Shipman’s nephew, Horace Gardiner. And the cute little front porch was all wet paint. It was only a little while before my brother Herbert had gotten his nice new suit covered with wet paint, much to the annoyance of my mother. It was not until the following fall that I started to school. My first teacher was Miss. Ena Williamson, who had charge of the junior room which then occupied all of the lower floor. She became the wife of Dr. George Judson at the end of the year and my next teacher was a Mrs. Knapp. When I was promoted to the Senior room, my teacher was Miss Christina Wilson for the four years I spent there. When the Entrance examinations were tried, out of a class of eight pupils only one failed. The required marks for passing were 422 and I had the honor of heading the class with a total of 581 marks. Later on when I became a student in the Brockville Collegiate, it was found that I had obtained the highest marks of any student in the newly formed first form. At that time the Lyn students travelled to Brockville on the Grand Trunk Railway. The station was about a mile distant from the village and the students usually walked to catch the 8 a.m. mixed train which was very irregular in its time, sometimes not reaching town until nine o’clock. However we were not late very often. We would proceed to the school via the William Street crossing and return the same way to board one of the passenger cars awaiting us. Our evening train left at 5 p.m., so by the time we had reached home it was usually six o’clock. As we had left home by 7:30 a.m. it made a long day. On the train we met other collegiate pupils from Mallorytown and Landsdowne. I remember the three Fairlie Boys fro Lansdowne They were the sons of the Presbyterian Minister there and have since become leading Canadian citizens. Before the year was over the Grand Trunk ceased to operate that nice little train and it was necessary for the Lyn pupils to obtain other transportation, several ‘loads’ were organized. The driver of the largest load was Howard Everts who later became a Public School Inspector in Saskatchewan. The son of our Methodist Minister, Milton Perley, was the driver of another load which included his sister Aleda, Lucy Cumming and myself. I well remember on one occasion when we were returning home right near Nigger Hill [1], Milton stopped to get a few nice apples from a near bye orchard. But I would not partake of any of these apples as I said they were ‘stolen’. It is interesting to note that Milton became a Methodist Missionary to China in later years! Concerts in these days were few and far between and sometimes were held in conjunction with a sugar social or a strawberry festival. At one of these held in Buell’s Hall I can recall Mr. James Cumming as chairman introducing a young lady ‘who had come all the way from Scotland to sing the song “Green Grow the Rashes O!”. She shortly after became Mrs. Gordon Cumming. On another occasion in the school hall (the former junior room downstairs) I remember the Billings boys, Horace and Tom, amusing us greatly by the song “Johnny was the One I Wanted”. Horace died at an early age, but Tom is now Dr.T.H.Billings, in charge of an important city church in the U.S. Another performer on that programme was Frank Fulford who captivated us with his violin solos. He later became a wealthy man and lived in a castle in England. One great event in our lives was the time our Sunday School ran an excursion. We were transported from the B&W station to the C.P.R. dock in Brockville on flat cars, furnished with crude board seats and decorated with evergreen trees which however did not afford protection from the flying cinders. Next we boarded the steamer “John Haggart” for a wonderful trip among the Thousand Islands and I expect had our picnic lunch baskets with us. My mother was busy chatting to Dr. Jusdon when she was interrupted by her small daughter dashing up and exclaiming “Herbie’s lost his cap. It fell into the ‘crik’! That remark nearly finished Dr. Judson, I thought he would never stop laughing at one for calling the might St. Lawrence – a ‘crik’! During the general elections of 1896 the boys and girls of Lyn Public School became keenly interested in politics and wore red or blue bans of ribbon to indicate their arty as ‘Grits’ and ‘Tories’. I think Mr. James Cumming was the Liberal candidate on that occasion but did not succeed in winning. However when Wilfred Laurier became the new Prime Minister, the village had a big celebration and Sir Charles Tupper was burned in effigy. [1] Located on the Lyn Road app. ½ km south-east of the intersection with the Howard Road. So called because a black family, Mr. and Mrs White lived there. Long ago, the death of an unidentified tramp led to a merry wake by the farmers of the region west of Lyn. In the early 1800’s, two farmers found the body of a transient in a field north of Jones Creek. While they were discussing their find and wondering whether or not they should send a rider into Brockville to fetch a coroner, Charles Jones, the pioneer merchant and miller of Elizabethtown, rode up. Jones, who had mills in Brockville, Jones Creek and Yonge Mills, as well as a general store in Brockville, told the farmers that Brockville had no coroner, and in fact the nearest medical examiner resided in Gananoque. He also ventured the opinion that it was not necessary to incur needless expense and that the best thing to do under the circumstances was to give the victim a decent burial. He suggested a cheap coffin be purchased and the unknown tramp laid to rest. He contributed $2.00 towards the cost. After his departure, the farmers proceeded to search the pockets of the corpse, finding another $2.50. Neighbours were notified, and since there was no minister in the area, one of the best educated and influential settlers was chosen to conduct the service. The coffin was made in Lyn and the tramp duly placed in it. The funeral service was held at a log house at Yonge Mills. The tramp was interred at an area graveyard, and after the service, the mourners discovered they still had $1.50 unexpended. The question immediately arose, as to how it should be spent. By Universal consent, the mourners decided that the fund should be invested in spirits. In those days $1.50 bought quite a quantity of liquor. In fact, the gathering was supplied with a pail full of the best whisky available in the district. Every man present had several cups, until the pail was empty. Then they went home happy. Nothing was thought of the matter, the custom of ‘drinking’ being almost universal. The tramp’s grave was never marked and the exact location is unknown today. I have been reliving those old days and getting a great deal of pleasure in doing so. We didn’t know it then, but those were very happy days, with loads of fun and very little responsibility. Our main worry was to make the grade and do as little work as possible. My first year at Brockville Collegiate Institute (BCI) we went in with Milton Perley. He had remained behind when his father moved and was staying with Dr. Sharpe. Jessie and Herb Kilpatrick, Gertrude, Milton and I made up that load. He drove a sorrel horse called “Katrina”. I can still hear him say “You’re not pullin’ together thar, Kit”. After Milton left Lyn, we went in with Alfred McCready. It was a three seated democrat and quite a load for one horse. The occupants were changing now and again as they graduated or were satisfied with a short term. I am a little hazy about this load, but Mabel Greer, Sam McCormick, Harford Steed, Ed, Pettem, Fred and Helen Barlow, and always Gertrude and I. It seems to me that Arthur Judson was along too. The last two years we went with Howard Everts with and old white horse that used to take blind staggers and try to climb trees. Quite frequently something would break, and no matter how near we were to Brockville we always ‘turned tail’ and walked home in order to enjoy a day’s skating, snow shoeing or tobogganing on Billings’ Hill. We thought the fresh air would do us good, and Tommy Marquis (BCI Teacher) always took our excuses. He had a soft spot for the Lyn kids. Occasionally we used to buy bottles of soft drinks and each have a straw in the same bottle, to see who could get the most. I remember one night the girls bought a basket of peaches, and the boys took the same notion that same night. Of course we thought we ought to eat them before we got home. I am ashamed to say that Gertrude and I each ate 24, but Helen being smaller, and of smaller capacity, could only manage 20. Of course the peaches were not of the large variety. It is a wonder we didn’t burst, but nothing happened. Some contest! (This note was dated Feb, 24, 1952, from Prescott, Route 2) The annual meeting of this society was held at the Edger’s House, Frankville, on Thursday last. N.H. Beecher, chairman; W.D. Livingston, secretary. The treasure’s report read as follows: Receipts from all sources, including balance from last report, $811.56; expenditures, $500.78; leaving a balance on hand of $310.78. The following officers were elected: President, D. Downey; vice president P. Stewart; directors, William Enni, O.L. Munro, Joseph Hanton, William Mitchell, R. Richard, B.F. Stewart, Joseph Jones, Jas. L. Gallanger W. G. Lee; secretary, W.D. Livingston; treasurer, William Eaton. The fair this year is to be held on Thursday and Friday Sept. 26 and 27. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following event A union camp meeting will be held by the Athens, Addison, Frankville and Toledo, Lyn and Mallorytown circuits of the Methodist church on the Unionville fair grounds, commencing Wednesday afternoon, August 21st. Arrangements are being made to have the grounds thoroughly equipped. The main building will be seated for the audience room. Ample accommodation for sleeping, etc., to those bringing provisions, will be provided free on the grounds. One building, floored, warm and dry, will be set apart for the use of the ladies of the Epworth League Full lodging, eating and horse accommodation will be provided at Mr. Forth’s at the most reasonable rates. During the continuance of the meeting, no driving will be allowed on the track. The place is central and only a step from the railway station. An effort will be made to secure commutation [sic] rates on the Brockville and Westport R.R. Tuesday Aug 27, 1895 issue Not withstanding the desire expressed by the committee of management that all church going people should attend their own places of worship on Sabbath, an immense crowd gathered at Unionville camp meeting on that day. It is estimated that from fifteen to eighteen hundred attended the afternoon meeting. The weather has not been very favourable for the meeting, but the buildings and grounds have been found so well suited to the purpose that a very pleasant and profitable time has been spent. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue Glen Buell, Saturday, Aug. 31. – The camp meeting held here has been the saviour of life to many. One good sister from Frankville says she is going to carry the fire home with her, as there is much need of it in her village. We hope the fruits of her labours may be blest and many be brought to the Saviour. Tuesday Sep 10, 1895 issue It is reported that a gang of thieves (for we cannot class them otherwise) made a general raid on the whips, halters, and lap rugs, on the camp-meeting grounds at Unionville on Sunday evening We hope for the good name of those attending the camp meeting that this rumour is not correct. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the above meeting. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 Tuesday July 2, 1895 issue Fairfield East, Friday, June 28 – The Ladies’ Aid hald a lawn social on the grounds at the Manhart church on the evening of June 26th. Quite a large crowd assembled to help empty the tales. After refreshments they were furnished with a firt class entertainment, consisting of readings, speeches, and excellent music by the choir. Everybody seemed to enjoy themselves immensely. The funeral services of Miss. Mary McCracken were conducted in the Manhart church on Tuesday, June 25, and services for her mother on Friday, June 28. The services were both conducted by the Rev. Mr. Danby of the Presbyterian church. The church was filled on both occasions. The bereaved family have the sympathy of the entire community. The cry around this part of the country is not like the old woman who was starving and the parson went in to pray with her and asked for everything that he thought she needed excepting for something to eat, and she cried, “Don’t forget the potatoes” Here, it is, “Oh, for a few drops of rain !” What might have been a very serious accident occurred at Mr. Hiram Manhart’s one day last week. In building a fire to get supper, some sparks flew from the chimney and caught the roof, but owing to great presence of mind and timely assistance from the neighbors the fire was extinguished with very little loss. There is one of our prominent young men strolls up on the railroad occasionally and it is rather dangerous to be coming back when one is a little sleepy, as the train passes through the woods and deadens the sound, so that he might meet with and accident. So beware, G., and drive instead of walking; it is more pleasant. Tuesday July 9, 1895 issue Fairfield East – Monday, July 8 – A number of our young people attended the celebration at Athens on Monday, 1st inst., and report having a No. 1 time. Mrs. O. Lillie and child of Newboro are visiting her father, Mr. Anson Manhardt. Miss McBratney is spending her holidays at Mr. Hiram Manhardt’s The lasted fad around this part of the country is for a young gent to take his sweetheart to a party or pic-nic and bring her home without her supper. I guess H… means business, as he seems to be a pretty frequest visitor. But of course it is all right. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue Fairfield East Friday, July 26 The Rev Dr. Larmour will deliver a discourse to the Foresters on Monday, 28th inst. At half-past two in the afternoon. A number of courts are invited to be present. The long looked for rain has come at last and is doing lots of good. There is to be seen a broad smile on nearly everybody’s face. We think Professor Bonn had better come again so that some of our intelligent young men might learn all about horses and their ailments. He says he has been in the business for twenty five or thirty years and does not begin to know all about them, but one young man heard him lecture once and says he knows it all now. Mr. and Mrs. G.A. Gilroy of Glen Buell visited at R.J. Sturgeon’s on Sunday last. Tuesday Aug 20, 1895 issue Fairfield East – Monday, Aug. 19- Farmers are at their harvesting and report a very light crop. The Foresters are getting along with the hall, slow but sure It is reported that a young couple residing in this neighbourhood never heard a rooster until one morning last week when they got up about three o’clock and ran to the barn to watch one crow. Wonder if they have ever seen the oars…[sic] Rumor says we are about to have a school for lady pugilists in the near future and then Wilie wants to look out and have a good backing or he may not come out in the second round as well as he did in the first. There are some from this vicinity taking the Manitoba fever. Hope it will not end with any serious results. Now, boys, the next time you go to a social, try to not go in at the eleventh hour, so you will be in time for supper. Tuesday Oct 1, 1895 issue Fairfield East, Saturday, Sept 28 – Our blacksmith, Mr. Hough, is the happy man this time. It is a real nice little baby girl. That young man from the other street, who comes over this way to church occasionally, has to look pretty sharp so as not to make any more mistakes, as the twin sisters look very much alike Mr. R.J. Sturgeon lost two fine cows by lightning on Wednesday last. Quite a number from here attended Prescott fair and report a large time, and the show of vegetables the best ever on exhibition in this part of the country. Husking bees are the rage now The whistle and whirr of the steam thresher are to be heard in every direction. Tuesday Nov 5, 1895 issue Fairfield East, Thursday, Oct 31 – Bert Smith is the happiest man in this community. It is just the “sweetest, nicest little girl dat eber libed” The Misses Mason and Birdsell are holding revival serviced near Algonquin Mr. O.F. Bullis and wife of Athens are attending the tent meeting at Algonquin, and also visiting friends in this vicinity last week. Mr. Gordon Manhart has gone to Newboro to attend school. We miss his smiling countenance very much, but hope our loss will be his gain. Mr. Ford Wiltse and wife of Athens were visiting at R.J. Sturgeon’s on Sunday last. We are pleased to see the smiling face of Mort Manhart in our midst again, after his sojourn in the cheese factory for the summer. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 B & W Railroad and Stage Line February 12th, 1889 issue A passenger on the B&W Stage last Wednesday had one of her heels frozen. March 12th, 1889 B&W: A large force of men have been shovelling out the snow drifts on the B&W during the past five or six days. On Sunday night a heavy freight train arrived here from Lyn. The line was this morning clear of snow from Westport to a point three miles east of Athens, and it is expected that regular trains will be running again tomorrow. March 19th, 1889 issue B&W– The snow blockade on the B&W which was raised on Sunday of last week was followed by a further blockade by the G.T.R. refusing to allow the B&W to pass over their line from Lyn to Brockville until a settlement was effected of the large account due them. Manager Hervey came down with the “Spot Cash” and was also able to secure a further lease of running powers over the G.T.R. line until such time as the B&W track shall be laid on the two miles yet unfinished. Traffic was resumed on the road on Saturday (Inst.) and regular trains are now running over the road on scheduled time. Contractor Knowlton of Newboro passed down yesterday to make arrangements for outing down the rails on the two miles yet unfinished. March 26th, 1889 issue B&W It is said that arrangements are almost completed for finishing the laying of the track on the B&W from Brockville to Lyn. The iron for the overhead bridge will probably be on the ground this week. If these rumours are correct, another month will see that section of the road in running trim. April 2nd, 1889 issue The B&W R.R. must be a great boon to the back country at this season of the year. The train passes here every day (LYN) loaded with passengers. Saturday April 27, 1889 The run off on the B&W, near this place (LYN) on Wednesday, might possibly have been saved by the employment of a few more section hands. “A stitch in time saves nine.” April 30th, 1889 issue B&W RR Railway Business: The following are among the railway honuacs [sic] voted on by the Dominion Parliament: To the Brockville, Westport and Sault Ste. Marie Railway, $64,000. for 20 miles, from Westport to Palmer Rapids. To the Thousand Island Railway $54,000. from the St. Lawrence River at Gananoque to a junction with the B&W. Tuesday May 7, 1889 issue B&W RR The twenty mile extension of the B&W west of Westport, will pass through a portion of the country rich in phosphate deposits. The B&W has a full fledged news agent who supplies the daily papers’ The Reporter will be for sale on the train hereafter, commencing with tonight. The work of ballasting the B&W is progressing rapidly. A large force of men, including about twenty Italians are working at the gravel pit and in the lifting gangs. Monday May 13, 1889 The “R.G.Hervey,” as one of the B&W engines is called, has a new bell, replacing the old one, which was cracked voice, used to emit a discordant warning to the unwary. The new bell is a dandy. December 31th, 1889 B&W RR The B&W station at Unionville is being divided. One section will be removed to Gilbert’s Crossing and the other will be moved up to the Addison Road. Tuesday Nov 20, 1894 issue- (date show is the date on the paper, not the correct date) B&W – On Friday evening shortly after leaving Lyn, the B&W express struck a cow with disastrous results. The cow was instantly killed and the engine and tender derailed. No serious damage was occasioned to the train and it reached Athens only about three hours late. Tuesday Jan. 8, 1895 issue- The B&W was several hours late yesterday morning, the train being held over to allow voters to mark their ballots in the Crosby election. Tuesday Jan. 15, 1895 issue- The Mallorytown stage failed to arrive last night, the road being blocked with drifts. The other stages were only slightly behind schedule time and the B&W express came through without delay. (Athens) Feb. 12, 1895 issue- Reports from woodsmen put the depth of snow on the level at from three to six feet.(Lyn) Surely the regularity of the train service on the B&W this winter should convince the back country folks of the reliability of a mail service on that route. At present it takes three days to get a return mail from Delta or west of this to Lyn, and the same from Addison or Greenbush. Tuesday Sep 10, 1895 issue The Westport Mail Service The deputation from the villages along the line of the Brockville and Westport Railway that went to Ottawa to interview the postmaster general with regard to the B&W Railway, returned today and report that no difficulty will be experienced in the railway getting the carriage of the mails, provided that the railway will give proper security for the due conveyance of the mails. In fact an order in council was passed as far back as October, 1891, providing for the transfer under these conditions. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 May 7 1889 There was buried yesterday at Toldeo one of the pioneers of the township of Kitley in the person of Mr. George Marshall. Who passed away at the ripe age of 87 years. Mr. Marshall was born in Vermont in 1802 and emigrated to Canada with his father Joseph when but six months old. The family settled finally on the 2nd Concession of Elizabethtown on the farm now owned by Mr. V.R.Marshall, but soon after moved to Toledo and settled on the farm where he died and to which his son Collin succeeds. Mr. Marshall was a staunch Liberal in politics and a consistent member of the Methodist Church. He married Nancy Fralick, who died some years ago and had five children, Albert, Noah, Melvin, Mary and Collin. All survived him except Melvin. Tuesday Oct 23, 1894 issue- Toledo– Saturday Oct 20. Husking bees are all the go. Mr. J. Hunt, who has been very sick for the past three weeks is slowly recovering. Special services are being carried on in the Baptist church by the pastor, Rev., Mr. Kennedy. A grand concert will be given in the town hall next Thursday night for the benefit of the Methodist Church. A grand concert is being prepared by the home talent, in dialogues, recitations and singing. Besides this, the following foreign talent have been engaged: Miss Fannie Robinson, soprano, Smith’s Falls; Miss. Gerty Coad, elocutionist, Brockville and Mr. C.C. Slack, conic singer, Athens. Tuesday Oct 30, 1894 issue- Toldeo– Saturday Oct 27th – Mr. Geo Stratton is having his house painted The concert on Thursday night last turned out to be a success, although the night was bad and Mr.C.C. Slack of Athens was not there on account of sickness. Muss. Gerty Coad of Brockville gave some fine recitations and Miss. Fannie Robinson sang some fine solos. Besides this, the home talent distinguished themselves in singing, recitations and dialogues. Nov 18, 1894 issue- The Orange Lodge of Toledo in full regalia, attended divine services here (Frankville) in the Methodist church on Sunday morning, Nov. 4th, where a very impressive sermon was preached by the Rev. G.H.Porter, M.A., B.D. for the occasion. Nov 18, 1894 issue- Addison, Saturday Nov.10- Miss. Adda Sexton has engaged to teach Toledo school for the coming year. Tuesday Dec. 18, 1894 issue- Frankville– Dec 14- On Christmas night the Sabbath school of the Methodist church, Toldeo, intend holding their grand annual entertainment in the town hall, when an excellent programme will be presented, consisting of cantata, readings, dialogues, tableaux, recitations, pantomimes, etc. The Toledo Orchestra Band will furnish music. Admission 15¢ Tuesday Jan. 8, 1895 issue- Toldeo Presbyterian Anniversary The anniversary services of St. Andrew’s church, Toldeo, will be held on Sunday and Monday, 13th ad 14th inst. On Sunday at 11 and 7 pm Rev. Chas H. Cooke, M.A. of Smith’s Falls, will conduct the morning and evening services, and in the afternoon at 2:30 Rev. J.A. Kennedy, of Athens will preach. On Monday evening the annual tea and entertainment will be held in the town hall, when a programme of unusual excellence will be presented. The Presbyterians of Toledo are making special efforts to render these services unprecedented successful and their efforts will no doubt meet with a generous response from the public. Tickets are sold for 40¢; double, 75¢; three for $1.00 Tuesday Jan. 15, 1895 issue- Toledo– Monday, Jan 14- The post office has passed into the hand of Geo. S. Stratton. It is hoped that the post office will remain where it is and that it will be conducted as good a manner as it has been for the past year. The Baptist concert on New Year’s night was a success. The dialogues, recitations, solos, duets, quartets, etc. were given in good style. The orchestra gave some very fine music. The proceeds amounted to $41.00 The Toledo Methodist Sabbath school entertainment, which took place on Christmas night, was a great success. The town hall was packed to its utmost and in fact some who came late could not get in. The program was excellent and in spite of the crowded way in which the children were kept it was given without much delay. The music in the cantata was very fine. The Shepherd’s scene in this was grand and the tableau part where the light was thrown on to the shepherd’s was magnificent. The small children acted their parts nicely. There were four grand dialogues given entitled, ‘Rejected’, ‘Hospitality’, ‘The Assessor’. and ‘The Irish Party’. The later represented a number of Irish men and women and the acting in it kept the audience in laughter. Besides this, there were several very fine pantomimes. The Toledo orchestra band were also in attendance and the audience acted as if they could have listened all night to their music. At the end of the program some very valuable present were distributed. The proceeds of the evening amounted to $45. The Epworth League of this place will give a social at Mrs. Derbyshire’s on Wednesday night, the 23 of this month. Mrs. J. Coad fell some time ago and is not able to be out. Mrs. Derbyshire has been visiting friends in Portland these last few days. The anniversary services in the Presbyterian church on Sunday were very well attended, in spite of the stormy weather. Mr. Price has started a newspaper in Toledo known as Toledo Town News. The Presbyterian anniversary entertainment at Toledo last evening proved to be a very pleasant event. Quite a number from Athens attended. Full report next week. Tuesday Jan. 22, 1895 issue- Toledo– Monday, Jan 21- Remember the social at Mrs. Derbyshire’s on Wednesday night the 23rd. Miss. Terry McLean of Arnprior, has been visiting friends in Toledo for the last week. Mr. Glen Coad entertained a number of young people at her home on Friday last. Miss Carry Sweet of Portland has been visiting here for the past week. A social will be given at Mrs. Brigginshaw’s next Friday night, the 25th, for the benefit of the English church. Admission 15¢ The tea-meeting in connection with the Presbyterian church on Monday night was a success. Tea was served in the town hall after which every one went to the church where a grand program was given. The Presbyterians also gave a social in the town hall on the following Tuesday, which was largely attended and everyone enjoyed themselves immensely. Tuesday Jan. 29, 1895 issue- A grand ball and supper will take place at the Union hotel, Toldeo, on Tuesday evening Feb 5. The proprietor, Mr. John Foster, is experienced in managing such affairs, and, with the help of a first class committee, will make this event a success. Tickets, $1.00 Tuesday Feb. 5, 1895 issue- Toledo– Monday Jan 28- There was no service in any of the churches on Sunday last, as the ministers were unable to put in their appearance on account of the storm. Miss Stella Coad, of Brockville , is visiting friends in Toledo The socials on Wednesday and Friday nights were a success. A large number were present at both of them and they report themselves as having spent a very enjoyable time. Mrs. Noah Marshall is very sick The funeral of the late William Montgomery took place here in the Presbyterian church on Wednesday last and was conducted by Rev. Mr. Cameron. Mr. Chas. Grey laid his youngest child to rest in the Presbyterian cemetery on Thursday last. The funeral was conducted in the Presbyterian church by Rev. Mr. Cameron. Saturday, Feb 2 – Miss. J.McLean, who has been visiting friends here for the past month, has returned to her home in Arnprior. Mr. J. and T.Drummond are visiting their many friends in Toldeo. A number of our young people spent a very enjoyable time last Friday night at the home of Mrs. J. Bruce. Mrs. Noah Marshall and Mrs. G. Coad, who have been on the sick list for a very long time are no better. As Miss Sexton, the principal teacher of our school, was sick on Wednesday and Thursday of last week, the children in her room had a couple of holidays. Mrs. Albert Moran, of Athens, was with us on Sunday last. Mrs. Eva Stratton, who has been visiting friends near Athens, has returned home. We are sorry to hear that Dr. Reeve has left us and has now taken up his practice in the village of Lanark. We also understand that the family are to leave about the first of March. This is sad news for the people of Toledo, as Dr. Reeve and family were regarded with great respect by people around here. Tuesday Feb. 12, 1895 issue- Toldeo– Monday Feb 11- Foster’s ball Tuesday night was a success. The Bible society agent preached in the Methodist church on Saturday night last. Mrs. Gallagher and Mrs. Johnson were the guests of Mrs. Derbyshire Mr. Frank Fowler is on the sick list.\Miss. Louisa Edgar and Miss McClare attended the Christian Endeavor convention last week at Spencerville. There is a new doctor in town. His friends live in Toronto, but he has just returned from New York where he has been for the last two years. Mr. J. Coad is very sick. Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue– Toledo, Monday, Feb 25- The scarlet fever is raging in this place at present. Mr. Derbyshire and Mr. N.H. Beecher have returned from Toronto where they have been attending the A.O.U.W. grand lodge. The social at Mrs. Eaton’s on Wednesday night last was a grand success. We understand that there is to be a wedding on Tuesday night next. Our new doctor, J. Bruce Ferguson, M.D., C.M., has his office at Mr. Summerville’s. He has received several calls and is giving great satisfaction. Miss Annie Haskins is on the sick list. Mrs. Noah Marshall and Mrs. Geo. Coad, who have been on the sick list nearly all winter, are at present no better, Tuesday March 5, 1895 issue– Toldeo – Monday, Mar. 4. – Mr. Will Stratton has bought the entire stock of goods of Mr. Parker of Frankville and will commence business in that place today. will have a good man for sure. A social is to be given by the Christian Endeavor of this place tonight at the home of Mr. T. Hunter, Dr. Ferguson’s brother was in the village this week. A young men’s Liberal Club was organized in this place Friday night last. Mr. Mackey has engaged a new clerk. Mr. Robinson of Smith’s Falls was in the village last week visiting friends.\We understand that Dr Reeves’ family are to leave this week. Mr. C.A. Wood met with a very serious accident on Friday last. He was removing ice from the roof of his new house when he suddenly slipped and fell to the ground a distance of over twenty feet. His wife seeing the accident summoned help and with difficulty he was removed to his room. Dr. Ferguson was at once summoned and reported that there were no bones broken. Mr. Wood’s sufferings were very great at first, but at present he is a little easier. On account of there being no houses to rent in Toledo, Mr. Price is compelled to move his family to Frankville Mr. Bert Wood is home again on account of his father’s accident. Mr. W. Hull and Miss. Maggie Parker were married at the residence of the bride’s uncle, Mr. H. Nichols, on Tuesday, Feb 26 at 6 o’clock, by Rev.G.H.Porter. Only the nearest relations were present and they report themselves as spending a very pleasant time. It is with regret that we announce the death of the late Mr. T. Sherman. His funeral took place in the Methodist church on Sunday afternoon and was conducted by the Rev. G.H. Porter. After the service his body was laid to rest in the Toledo cemetery. Tuesday April 2, 1895 issue– Toledo– Monday April 1 – Great preparations are being made for sugar making. The merchants have already received some new syrup. Mr. George Carr is very low Mr. Horatio Eaton’s auction sale comes off on Tuesday. Mr. J. Foster is making preparations for some improvements on his buildings next summer. Mr. Albert Moran has been engaged as clerk by Mr. Beach of Athens. Prof. Taylor has been doing some of his wonderful tricks in the town hall for the past week. The Recorder’s correspondent for Toledo is not aware of the latest style when he calls the spoon that was used by the Epworth League in stirring coffee a broomstick. Tuesday April 16, 1895 issue– Marriage Hull-Parker – On Feb, 26th, at the residence of H.Nichols, Esq., Toldeo by Rev. G.H.Porter, M.A., B.D., Mr. W.J. Hall to Miss Mary A. Parker, both of the County of Leeds Tuesday April 23, 1895 issue– Toldeo– Monday, April 22,- Sugar making is over and the farmers have started their spring work. Mr. Derbyshire, our general merchant, has taken over 1,500 gallons of syrup this year. Mrs. Noah Marshall is still on the sick list. Dr. Ferguson, our new doctor, is meeting with great success. Toledo people were greatly excited last week over the disappearances and strange death of Miss Stevenson of Frankville. It looks as if Mr John Foster was going to destroy the looks of Toledo the way he is moving and tearing down buildings but we live in hopes of seeing great improvements in a short time. A dangerous yet laughable scene took place here on Friday last when a team belonging to Mr. A. Parker of Frankville broke loose from his wagon and while running away through the village they met with a washing machine agent who had a horse and wagon. As he did not get out of their road one horse took each side of the wagon and tried to get past in this way. There was a lively time for a while but the men soon got the tangle unravelled, and the agent came off safe with only a sore hip and lost hat. It is with very deep regret that we announce the death of an old and respected resident in the person of Mrs. Geo. Coad, who passed away peacefully on Friday forenoon last Her funeral took place on Sunday in the Methodist church and was conducted by the Rev. G.H. Porter after which her remains were laid to rest in the Toledo cemetery. While the funeral sermon of the late Mrs. Geo. Coad was being preached the congregation was somewhat disturbed by the cry fire and when some of the men went out it was found that the home of Mrs. J. Smith was on fire. Every effort was made to save the building but inside of an hour the building was burned to the ground. However the household furniture and summer kitchen were saved by the united efforts of the men. The fire started from a chimney which was burning out at the time and as the timber was old and dry the fire got a good start before anything could be done. Let this be a lesson to the people of Toledo to see tat their chimneys are always in a good condition. Tuesday April 23, 1895 issue– A Sad Death Miss Stephenson, a young lady eighteen years of age, daughter of the rector of the English church at Toledo, met with her death in a strange and sad way last week. She went for a walk on Tuesday afternoon and failing to return by 10 p.m. her friends became alarmed for her safety. Enquiry failed to reveal her whereabouts and a search party was instituted early next morning but all efforts to discover her that day failed. She was last seen on the bridge that spans the creek, so that the searchers rightly inferred that she had followed its course and perhaps entered the woods Traces of her devious way were found in a swamp and woods and fields, but when night fell the weary searchers were obliged to return home, disheartened. Next morning at break of day a large number of men assembled, prepared to line out and search every foot of the country. Just as they started, Mr. Running and Constable Richards discovered the body of the unfortunate girl. She had reached the line fence between the Parker and Coad farms, within a few yards of succour and safety, when she fell exhausted. She had been dead apparently some hours. An inquest held by Dr. Vaus failed to elicit any evidence of foul play, the doctors testifying that her death was due solely to exposure. Deceased was nearsighted and it is probable that darkness came on sooner than she expected, resulting in her terrible sufferings and death. The tragic event has profoundly moved the people of the whole community, who sympathise deeply with the family in their heavy affliction. Tuesday June 18, 1895 issue– Toledo – Monday, June 17,- Chantry football club is coming down here next Saturday to play our boys a match. The Rev. G.H. Porter, M.A., B.D. preached his farewell sermon in the Methodist church on Sunday last. A number of our young people spent Saturday at Charleston Lake and report having spent a very enjoyable time. We are sorry that the Addison men feel so bad over their boys not defeating our team in the last foot ball match they had. Addison has got a good team, but they cannot deny that Toledo had the best of the last match, and for that reason a large piece has been put in the Brockville Times to try and cover it over. This is all right, but when a lot of stuff is put in which is very far from the truth we cannot help thinking that they have gone a little too far. By their talk, a person would think half of our men did not live in Toledo at all, but we would like them to show us one of our men who does not live in Toledo or within three miles from it. They also did the referee injustice by speaking of him in the way they did, but we claim he did his very best and that he did not have any reason to favour our team, as most of our boys are strangers to him, while most of Addison men go to school with him at Athens. Besides this, there are several other things we could mention, but we will not go any further, because in one way we feel sorrow over their disappointment in their boys not defeating our team in their last match. Tuesday July 16, 1895 issue Toledo Monday, July 15 – Many of our farmers have finished their haying and some of them won’t have enough to winter their stock. Mr. Harry Reeve and his sister Muriel of Lanark are visiting their many friends in the village at present. Mr. J. Smith has begun to rebuild his house, which was burnt some time ago. Mr. Simmie Manhard and Mrs. Cornell of Athens gave some of their old friends a flying visit on Friday last. Our students who have been going to school at Brockville and Athens are now home on their vacation. Miss Rena Coad of Brockville is the guest of Miss Ethel McCrum Mrs. Derbyshire is visiting her mother at Portland this week. Mr. S. Sliter, who has been working for Mr. Mackay for some time, has left the firm and is now living at Westport. Our Orange Lodge took in the Twelth [sic] at Ottawa this year. Owing to a large and steady increase in business, Mr. Borthwick our new baker, has engaged Mr. E. Pennock of Brockville as helper. Mr. Borthwick is giving excellent satisfaction and finds no trouble in selling his bread any where it goes Miss Leah Stratton is in Brockville this week on a visit to her friends there. Our Epworth League is doing a rushing business this year selling ice cream on Saturday nights. Miss Lillie Tallman who has been visiting friends in Ottawa for some time, has returned home. Mr. Charles Stratton was home on a visit last week. Dr. Ferguson in now in New York where he is taking up the practice of one of the leading physicians of the New York Post Graduate Hospital. This speaks very highly of Dr. Ferguson, and Toledo may well be proud of having such a doctor. Dr. Hargraves is taking up Dr. Ferguson’s practice while he is absent. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue Toledo Monday, July 29 – It is with very deep regret that wa announce the death of Mr. James Coad, a very highly respected person, who has been sick for a very long time. His funeral took place on Friday last and was conducted by the Rev. Me. Stillwell in the Presbyterian church, after which his remains were conveyed to the vault near Smith’s Falls. As Mr. Coad was a member of the A.O.U.W., his brethren turned out in their usual respectful manner to convey him to his last resting place. We expect to be able to report a very pleasant event in our next week’s news. Mrs. Derbyshire is at present in Portland taking care of her father who is seriously ill. Mr. Harry Reeve has returned home and was accompanied by Mr. Talmage Stratton. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue Mr. James Coad of Toledo died on Thursday morning last. He had been a sufferer for a long time from diabetes. Tuesday Aug 6, 1895 issue Toledo – Saturday, Aug 3. – Several from here intend taking in the great show at Smith’s Falls on the 13th Mr. Talmage Stratton has returned home from Lanark where he has been visiting friends. Our baker has quite a curiosity in the shape of two eagles. He intends fitting them up in fine shape to show at the fall fairs Miss Gertrude Reeve of Lanark is the guest of Miss May Pratt. Dr. Gallagher of Bay City, Michigan, gave his sister, Mrs. Derbyshire, a short visit last week. On Tuesday evening, July 30th, one of the happiest events Toledo has seen for some time took place in the Presbyterian church, when Miss Lena Edgar was united in Marriage to Mr. James Sexton of Elgin. The Church was nicely decorated with ferns and flowers, and long before the time of the mirage the seats were packed to their utmost. After a half hour’s waiting the ceremony was performed by the Rev. Mr. Fleming. The bride looked very charming in her handsome dress, and Toledo, we may safely say, is losing one of its most prominent young ladies. The Presbyterian congregation will especially miss her, as for a large number of years she has taken an active part in the Christian Endeavor, the choir, and in all the church work. Not only did she work for the interest of her own church, but she was always found willing to give her aid in the entertainments or concerts and of the other churches. About nine o’clock the guests and the happy couple drove to the bride’s home where a very enjoyable evening was spent. Tuesday Aug 27, 1895 issue Toledo- Monday, Aug 26 – School commenced last week with the same staff of teachers Miss Gertrude Reeve has returned to her home at Lanark The boys are making great preparations for duck hunting Miss DeWolfe of Athens is visiting friends here A large number from here took in the Sell’s brothers big show at Smith’s Falls Miss Mary Pratt and Miss Eva Stratton are visiting friends in Smith’s Falls Our foot ball team were successful a few days ago in defeating Chantry and Harlem team by 1 to 0 Mr. Wm. DeWolfe is home from the United States where he has been for some time. Miss Carrie McCrum has returned home from Brockville where she has been visiting friends. A few from here attended the camp meeting at Unionville on Sunday Miss Edith Coad of Brockville is the guest of Miss Carrie McCrum Rev. D. McLean and Miss Katie McLean of Arnprior are visiting friends here For a number of years back, hunters have come to our lakes and shot ducks whenever they pleased, but let them take warning this year to be careful when and how they capture their ducks. We are glad to see the improvements that are being made in the cemetery. This is something that has been needed for some time and we hope that those interested in the grounds will make a good job of it this time. Tuesday Sep 10, 1895 issue Toledo, Monday, Sept. 9. – Wild ducks are very scarce this year, though about fifty hunters were here on Monday. Foster’s horse won a prize at Kingston races. Bread is down to five cents Miss Derbyshire of Norwich is here visiting her brother Our teachers have been re-engaged for the next year Great preparations are being made for the pic-nic on the 14th Mr. Wm. Bell of Almonte is home on a visit to his mother Miss Merrick, Miss Derbyshire, Mr. T. Stratton, and Mr. Weir of this place spent Saturday last at Portland where they spent a very enjoyable time on the river. Tuesday Sep 24, 1895 issue There was a tremendous crowd at Toledo picnic on the 14th and the affair passed off very successfully and pleasantly. The day was a little cold but otherwise was a favourable though there doubtless would have been a much larger crowd out had the weather been warmer. There was abundant provision made by the generous hearted people who did the cooking for even a far larger number than was present and everything was of the best. The citizens band, Smith’s Falls, supplied the music and during the afternoon there were games in the field and three very exciting trotting races. In the fast race D. Forth of Unionville took first money; in the green race, A.Rogers took first; and in the three minute race W. Murphy’s horse came in ahead. Tuesday Oct 1, 1895 issue Toledo, Monday, Sept. 30 – Mr. C.A. Woods has been doing a little more work on his new house Mr. W. Pratt paid a short visit to his old home last week. Dr. Kilborn and family have moved back to their old home at Oeon [sic] station. Mr. John Smith has his new house about finished Mr. S.Carr and Harry Reeve of Lanark gave some of their friends a short visit last week. Miss Sarah Brown of Arnprior is visiting friends here. Dr. Ferguson has returned from New York where he has been walking the hospitals A large number from here left last week to attend the Ottawa exhibition, among the number being Mr. and Mrs. H. Hicks, Miss Leah Stratton, Mrs. McLean, Mr. George Stratton, and Talmage Stratton. Mr. J. Geo. Hunter, who has been home on a visit for a short time, has left for Springfield to attend the Y.M.C.A. training school Tuesday Oct 15, 1895 issue Toledo, Monday, Oct. 14, – A sermon was preached to the A.O.U.W. by Rev. Mr. Stillwell on Sunday morning last. The Rev. Mr. Sheldon occupied the Baptist pulpit on Sunday Miss Schofield has removed her millinery shop from Mr. Mackey’s store to the drug store stand. Mr. R. Percival has opened up a tailor shop in a room back of the post office. We wish him every success. Miss Mary Pratt is visiting friends in the States Miss McCann has opened up a millinery shop in Mr. Mackey’s store. Our teachers attended the convention at Brockville A number from here went to Brockville last week to hear Laurier. Tuesday Nov 5, 1895 issue Toledo, Monday, Nov 4. – Miss Mary Pratt has returned home from the States, where she has been visiting friends for some time. Our tailor, Mr. R.H. Percival is doing a rushing business. He has engaged Miss Bulford of Athens as assistant. Mr. Will Steward has returned fomr from Nova Scotia, where he has been working all summer. Our stage has again changed hands and is now in the possession of Mt. T. DeWolfe. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 Tuesday Oct 30, 1894 issue- Glen Buell– Monday Oct 29. Much interest was taken in the result of the great squirrel hunt of last week between ye men of the woods who are lovers of the gun and residents of Spring Valley. They issued a challenge to the red men of the glen to go into a friendly competition in order that the fact of superior skills might be made known to the public. Spring Valley March 4th1889 The Goose Pickers’ Association which was to be organized at Dogtown, will meet here in the gymnasium rooms next door south of the Grand Central Hotel. We expect to hear the tin wedding bells ring again. Gideon and his band are making havoc in the bush, both in cordwood and logs. We are glad to hear that Mrs. Nelson Whitmarsh has recovered from a severe illness. Mrs. James Emmans, from Cass City Mich., has been visiting her father Mr. John Westlake and other friends. She will leave for home on the sixth, accompanied by her nephew, Mr. Allen Hays. Rollicking Jake is busily engaged in moving to Addison, where he will settle on the old Hewitt homestead. There were quite a number from Pious Hollow attended a party at Briar Hill, NY on Friday last. They reported a good time. Referring to Miss Maude Addison’s appearance in the Charity Concert last Thursday evening, the Recorder says: “She is an exceedingly clever young lady, and is destined to make her mark on the stage. Mr. C.C.Slack as a character singer gave the audience a treat.” Spring Valley March 18th , 1889– Sugar weather is near at hand. Mr. Blanchard, from Lombardy, has moved to the farm vacated by Mr. Jacob Hewitt. Mr. Thomas Atcheson has had a series of law suits in which he suffered defeat, causing him some trouble of mind. Pig thieves made another raid on Shosiaville [sic], but were met by Jimmy and his 82- calibre. He delivered four shots in succession, and drove the raiders away. I think the authorities should put a stop to such proceedings. Archie Baldwin, our old bachelor of Noisy Hill, went to market the other day with his first load of produce for the season- his own make of butter, for which he received the highest prices. A young man from Pratt Valley is ?? Sunday wending his way to the large farm on Charity Island. We expect to hear of a wedding which will cause some excitement. A protest is lodged against the Dogtown lady who won the prize at the goose picking held here. The deciding contest will be between the said lady and a lady of the centre ward, and the deacon will be a judge. Spring Valley– Monday May 13, 1889 The hail storm did considerable damage in this art of the country, breaking window glass and causing teams to run away while working in the fields. Some of the hailstones measured six inches in circumference. There has been another fight at Pious Hollow among two of the Donnybrookers. They went to town and loaded themselves with bug-juice, and when they returned home they found a number of friends awaiting their return, having a supply of whiskey with them. The exhibition went on lively. They buried the King of the Hollow two sods deep. Then a lady and gent got into a fight. They fought hard tearing each other’s clothes Next day the young man was summoned before the Kadi and fined $10. and costs. The little giant was working on the south side of the pan-handle farm when the hailstorm came up and caused the team to run away with the plough. He says that he would have held them if his hat had not blown off. They did no damage. The Pratt Valley gent has turned out to be an eye doctor. Here was a lady visitor at Charity Island who was afflicted with sore eyes. The doctor examined her eyes and pronounced it acute inflammation, but said he could cure them if she would consent to use his eye wash according to directions. A bottle of the eye wash was sent and used only once, when the lady’s eyes got so bad that she could hardly see, the wash nearly blinding her. I say to the public that they ought to beware of such quacks; they do more harm than good. Tuesday Feb. 5, 1895 issue- Miss. Jennie Thompson of Spring Valley is this week visiting friends in Athens Tuesday Feb. 12, 1895 issue- Spring Valley– Monday Feb 11- On Friday evening last about twenty invited guests partook of the hospitality of Miss. Gertie Hayes. After oysters were served a very enjoyable time was spent in games of all sorts, all being well pleased with the evening’s outing. Where we have the next one ? Doctor M. is back to this vicinity, seeming to have improved considerably since he went away. Mr. Thomas Thompson had the misfortune to freeze his face on Wednesday last while coming from the woods. We understand our pugilist has sent out several challenges during the past two weeks. Look out boys. Owing to the condition of the roads, the boys are unable to practice their speedy horses. Our school is progressing favourably under the management of Miss. Tennant of Caintown. Mr. Joshua Gilroy has refused a handsome sum for his celebrated horse, Doc. L is a hustler. Tuesday Feb. 19, 1895 issue– Spring Valley, Monday Feb 18- Mr. B.H. Brown, son of Anson Brown, a well to do young farmer here, has devised and completed a fine labor-saving device to convey the manure from his dairy stable and dump it on the sleigh or wagon in the shed. A single track is hung high enough to clear the head and far enough back of the drop to be out of the way. On this track plays a truck, or car, 5 feet long; from this car is a trough or box suspended at the desired height and large enough to hold the droppings of 12 cows or more at once. The car is run to the back end of the back end of the line of cows and passes down as fast as the manure can be scooped in, and begins to turn on a quarter circle part of the track as soon as it leaves the cows and at the centre of the shed dumps its load on the sleigh and continues on up to the far end of the other line of cows and returns when filled and dumps in the same manner as before. Two dumps easily discharge all that is deposited in 24 hours from 24 head of cattle. The track is 90 feet long and in form exactly like an old fashion ox-bow and dumps at the middle of the bow. It is a self dumper. His arrangement for watering stock and this device with some others, prove the B.H. is a practical genius and is of some ?? in his day and generation. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 Jan 8, 1889 Miss. Hester Wiltse has been engaged to teach school in NewDublin for the coming year. Saturday June 22nd 1889 Mr. Byron Cadwell of New Dublin has just put in a first class cheese box plant in his saw mill. Saturday July 20- 1889 Births: Cadwell- At New Dublin, July 11th the wife of Byron Cadwell, of a son. Tuesday Dec. 18, 1894 issue- New Dublin Church opening at New Dublin Wednesday last was a red letter day in the parish of New Dublin as on that day the new church of St. John the Evangelist was opened for devine service. The new church of stone finely finished in wood, with windows of stained glass, and stands on the same ground as the one erected about sixty years ago. Notwithstanding the unfavourable weather a large number of clergy and laity attended the three services held during the day. The clergy present were: Rev. Rural Dean Grout, (Rector of the Parish) of Lyn, Rev. Rural Dan Carey of Kingston, Rev. Messrs Cooke of Kingston, Young and Landsdown, Elliott of North Augusta, Forsythe of Oxford Mills, McTear of Maitland, Stephen of Frankville and Wright of Athens. Dedication and Morning Prayer were said by Rev. Rural Dean Nesbitt, assisted by Rev. Messrs Stephenson and Young. The Holy Eucharist was offered by Rev. Mr. Cooke, assisted by Rev. Messrs Forsythe as Gospeller, Wright, E isoler [sic] and McTear as Server. The sermon was preached by Rev Rural Dean Carey from Haggal II,9. Dinner was served by the ladies of the congregation in the town hall and was a most beautiful spread. After dinner the Litany was intoned by Rev. Mr. Elliott, and addresses were delivered by Rev. Messrs. Forsythe, Cooke and Young and Messrs. N. Brown and W. Stafford. The ladies also provided a first class tea which was largely patronized. Evensong was said by Rev. Wright, assisted by Rev. Messrs. Nesbitt and Cooke, when the following delivered addresses: Nesbitt, McTear, Wright and Cooke. Miss. M. Webster ably presided at the organ at all the services and during the offertory. Miss Joynt, of North Augusta sang a very fine solo from Mozart- “Come unto me” The Rector, Building committee and ladies of the congregation deserved the greatest credit for the successful manner in which the work was carried on and completed. We congratulate the church people of New Dublin on the possession of such a nice church, complete in every part, for the service of Almighty God. Tuesday June 11, 1895 issue– New Dublin– June 10- Mr. T. McBratney is rushing business on his new residence. Mr. Hudson Kendrick of Rocksprings spent Sunday with his parents. Miss. L. Ward of Elgin was the guest of Mr. Aaron Sherman on Sunday last. Mrs. E. Healy, who has been visiting her mother, Mrs. Samuel Horton, returned to her home in Perry Sound on Friday last. Mrs. R. Maud of Smith’s Falls and her sister of Kemptville were guests of B.J Horton on Sunday Mrs. Eugene Bradley and daughter from Perry Sound are visiting friends here. Mr. B. Cadwell’s saw mill is running full blast. He is doing a rushing business in cheese boxes. The paper states that his boxes are the best that arrive on Montreal markets. The Methodist church was well filled Sunday afternoon to hear the Rev. Mr. Knox deliver his farewell sermon. The sermon was a very touching one, the text being Matt XXVI chapter, 13th verse. All miss his presence among us, but our loss will be some other’s gain. We wish him much success in his new field of labor, and pray that he may receive souls for his hire. A visitor at Mr. Edward H. Rowsom’s , a bouncing baby girl Our school is progressing nicely under the management of Mr. Geo. Homer of Rocksprings. Tuesday June 18, 1895 issue– New Dublin– Friday June 14,- Berry picking is the order of the day. Mrs. H. Davis is seriously ill. The people of St. John’s Church are to have their annual picnic in Mr. W. Earl’s grove on June 21st. Mr. E.H. Rowsom is rushing business on his new barn, the stone work being put up by Mr. R. Kendrick. No slop work done here. We understand that Mr. Anson E.H. Sherman has purchased a new guitar, with which he expects to charm the citizens in a short time. The president of the Mope-pope factory was badly disturbed by a shower of stones, which caused him to fire. Miss A. Gordon of Athens is the guest of Mrs. B. Cadwell Mrs. David Slack and Miss Hall were the guests of Mrs. B. Cadwell on Friday last Mr. J. Rappell of the Tin Cap was a guest of Mr. T. McBratney on Thursday last. Tuesday June 25, 1895 issue– New Dublin– Monday There was a large number of Friends passed through here on Wednesday to attend the funeral of Mrs. Joseph Hayes of Glen Buell. Messers. Churchill Pepper have dissolved partnership, Mr. Pepper having struck another situation in Brockville. Visitors – Mrs. M. Kendrick and little daughter of Shilo is visiting friends here this week. (at New Dublin) Mrs. Shepley Rousom and daughter were the guests of Mrs. Richard Kendrick on Wednesday of this week. Mrs. A. Robinson of Hard Island returned home on Thursday after paying a short visit to her daughter Mrs. Henry Horton. Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Horton left on Saturday for Watertown to visit there daughter, Mrs. Patterson. Mr. Albert Hayes wears a broad smile – it’s a girl Tuesday July 2, 1895 issue New Dublin, Saturday, June 29 – Road work is the order of the day in this section. Some of the farmers have commenced haying, on account of the dry weather. Mr. Alex. Compo and son of Athens were in the employment of Mr. Byron Caldwell this last week. Mr Caldwell is doing a rushing business in cheese boxes, having to work late and early to fill his orders. Miss. Ina Gordon of Athens returned home on Monday after visiting Miss. V. Cadwell of this place The terribles of this place celebrated their first anniversary in Mr. Joseph Deacon’s office on Monday last, which cost them $35.78 Tuesday July 9, 1895 issue New Dublin, Monday, July 8 – Dry weather still continues in this section. Fruits of all kinds will be a perfect failure if rain does not come soon. Mr. Hudson Kendrick of this place who is in the employment of Mr. Wilson of Rockspring as cheese maker, and his chum, Mr. George Steacy, were visiting friends here on Sunday last. Huds look hale and hearty. Quite a number of our city folks took in Dominion day. Some went to Athens and others took in the trip over the G.O.P. to Westport. All report a rattling good time. Mr. Joshua Boulton of Brockville and son of Montreal paid our city a flying visit on Dominion Day. Mrs. Robeson and little son of Brockville are visiting Mr. and Mrs. John Kendrick this week. Miss Vienna Kendrick returned home on Thursday last after an absence of two weeks. Miss Maud Kendrick was the guest of Mrs. Aaron Shermen on Wednesday of last week. Another birth in the city. It’s a young girl. Mr. Johnnie Austin had a ??? on his finger which caused him to have his finger taken off between the first and second joint. It was very painful. The correspondent to the Times is a little rattled concerning Mrs. A. Sherman’s illness. She says she is improving quite fast; therefore, I think that the correspondent needs a bottle of porter or old rye. Rev. Mr. Grout of Lyn preached a sermon to the Orangemen. The ?? was fine and the sermon was grand. The Rev. Mr. Pimlott preached an excellent sermon to his people on Sunday last. His text was, “Adam, where art thou ?” Tuesday July 16, 1895 issue Mrs. Horton, relict of the late Wm. Horton of New Dublin, died at that place on Sunday, 7th inst., aged 71, Deceased was a daughter of the late Wm. Whitmore of Wiltsetown. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue New Dublin On Saturday last two of our young men from Bolton Hollow distuised themselves and came into town as tramps. They gave the appropriate name of Black Knight and Whiskers. We will all drink cherry wine this winter, as cherries are plentiful in this section. They would all like to know who is the Reporter correspondent for this place. Well, friends, it is I; do you know me ? A few of our city boys went to Lamb’s pond on Sunday and two of them went out in the punt “Armstrong.” They encountered a large snake and in the trouble that followed one of the boys fell out of the punt into the mud and water. Miss Ethel Blanchard of Athens has been visiting friends in Brockville on Sunday. Mr. and Mrs. Will Bolton were the guests of Mr. George Bolton Tuesday Aug 13, 1895 issue Laid at Rest A New Dublin correspondent writes the Reporter as follows: No trouble was experienced by he friends of our young man Robert Bolton, whose body was found Tuesday morning last, in securing the remains. The village authorities at Morristown considered that the facts concerning the drowning being a pure accident were so well verified that an inquest was not necessary. A permit was accordingly granted at once for the removal of the body. It had drifted fully a mile from the place where the canoe was upset, and was found by a resident on the river front floating in a bay near his boat house. The remains, which were quite badly decomposed, were removed to Clint’s undertaking establishment Tuesday night and the funeral took place from there at one o’clock Wednesday to the cemetery at New Dublin. The services were conducted in the Methodist church at the village by the Rev. Dr. Griffith, and were attended by large numbers from the surrounding country who have evinced the ?? sympathy with the mourning friends since the announcement was made. The deceased was a member of Mr. Birk’s Sunday school class and other representations from the Jas. Smart works, attended the funeral in a body, Respect was shown by all for the deceased, as he was one of our most noble young men. Tuesday Aug 13, 1895 issue New Dublin Monday, Aug 12- The minister of this place is a hustler, having raised money to clear the debt on the church and to build a shed He must be somewhat absent minded, or was thinking of the story he told of the cow that had three calves, as he did not announce that there would be no service here on Sunday on account of communion service at Greenbush. The prayer meeting flourished. Under a large apple tree, our village blacksmith stands, which is Mr, John Kendrick with a hammer in his hands; he mends binders and reapers and tires and bands, and sells all of his fine honey he can. Miss. Adda Sherman has left the employment of Mrs. B. Cadwell and is now visiting her brother and sister, Mr and Mrs. Aaron Sherman of this place. Tuesday Aug 20, 1895 issue New Dublin – Monday, Aug. 19 – Frequent showers are visiting this section The people in this section will soon have their grain all in and will have room to spare in their barns, as straw is very short. The heavy wind on Saturday evening did considerable damage in the orchard around here. The Sherman brothers have Mr. Thos. McBratney’s house all first coated, it will soon be ready for the carpenters to finish their work. Mr. Johnnie Lickow has left the employment of Mr. Byron Cadwell. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue New Dublin, Monday Sep 2 – A large number of our friends attended the camp meeting last week. Miss M. Ward has returned home after an absence of over two weeks. Miss Vienna Kendrick has been visiting friends in Winchester and her cousin, Miss Kendrick, returned home with her for a short time Miss Rowsom, Miss McNeil and Miss Moulton, from Ingersoll are visiting friends in this place Tuesday Sep 10, 1895 issue New Dublin, Monday, Sept.9. – Mr. Aaron Sherman is again on the sick list Mr. Ira Mallory, Brockville, is helping Mr. B. Cadwell get out a special order for cheese boxes. Mr. Cadwell goes to Toronto fair on Wednesday next. Misses W. and Edna McBratney were guests of Mrs. Aaron Sherman on Monday Black squirrels are very plentiful It is currently reported here that the junior curd official of Glen Buell made an excursion west to Lake street with a beautiful little maid in her teens. While in the house some little trouble arose whereby our beloved son of the Glen had a special mark placed on his beautiful face. We advise the junior to be careful in future about entering upon new fishing grounds. Tuesday Oct 8, 1895 issue New Dublin, Saturday, Oct. 7, – Council met here today We are to have a bee this afternoon to haul material on the ground for a shed at the Methodist church. Our holiness prayer meeting is flourishing in this place Mr. and Mrs. Jas. McDougal are happy and rejoicing over a new born babe. It is a girl. A large load of our holiness people went to Algonquin on Sunday last to a camp meeting. They had a good and profitable time. Mr. Hudson Kendrick has returned home from his factory for good. Mr. Anson Sherman was visiting friends in Athens last week. Wm. B. Boulton, Esq. is away up to London this week attending the Ontario high court of I.O.F. He was sent as a delegate for Court Glen Buell. We shall expect to hear Bro. Boulton address a public meeting in our town hall on his return. Our mutual friend and citizen, Wm. H. Davis, has gone west for the purpose of squandering in traveling a quantity of money which came into his possession without labor, and he can’t afford to keep it with hard earned coin. He will visit Owen Sound, Toronto and other points of interest before returning to his usual place of worship. Tuesday Oct 15, 1895 issue New Dublin, Friday, Oct 11. – Apple picking is the order of the day They are worth 15 cts. Per bushel in this section Mr. John Davis will soon have the stone work completed on his new stone house. It is being done by Mr. Thos. Foxin and Mr. Joseph Place, and it is an excellent piece of work. A holiness convention is to he held at this place in the town hall on the second day of Nov. We hope that all that are interested in this good work will be preset. All are invited and made welcome. Our prayer meeting is prospering in this place. A large number went to Algonquin on Sunday last. A large audience was present. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1884, 1889, 1894, 1895 and 1924 March 28, 1884 – The Breaking of a Dam Floods the Village The Village of Lyn situated five miles west of Brockville is today undergoing all the horrors of a flood, an experience seldom falling to the lot of dwellers in Eastern Ontario Towns. This morning at an early hour it was noticed that the small stream of water passing through the centre of the quite hamlet and partially held in check by a rotten looking dam, had assumed the proportions of a small river. A few more moments elapsed during which a roaring noise resembling the rapid approach of a furious thunder storm was heard and then with a boom and a crash a great body of water came rushing down the narrow gorge carrying everything before it. Hugh masses of thick ice were swirled about like corks and a few minutes after the first warning the water had reached the depth of two feet in some of the streets of Lyn and one Lady Mrs. Raymond, was obliged to gather her effects hurriedly together and vacate her dwelling which was soon flooded. At latest accounts Purvis Store, Gardiner’s Store and a dwelling occupied by Mr. Peter Pergau were invaded by the watery element, while many other residences had banked their houses in hope of restricting the invasion. To add to the trouble large blocks of ice are floating about the streets and threatening damage to the buildings. The trouble originated from the breakage of Coleman’s Dam erected between the two points of lakes by the Coleman Brothers about twenty five years ago. The dam is situated about three miles above the village and is supposed to have become weak through age. Lyn, Tuesday March 26th, 1889 Spring has come, the voice of the blackbird and robin is heard in the land and the vendors of maple syrup are seen on our streets. Poor sap-weather they say. March has been decidedly lamb-like all through, but lion may put in an appearance in April. Heldon Brown, son of Ira Brown, has gone to Idaho to go into business with his brother, who has been out there for some years. Every body wishes “Shel” success. Ms. James McLean, who has been an inmate of the lunatic asylum at Kingston for some time, died suddenly on Thursday, and was buried at Stone Church, Young on Saturday. Rev. J.J. Richards being away on vacation, visiting friends in the North-West, his pulpit is supplied by students and others. Rev. Mr. Phillips kindly officiates when called upon during the week. The Methodist Church Ladies’ Aid Society intend holding a sugar social on April 3rd. Lyn, Saturday April 27, 1889 The warm weather and rain of this week have started the grass, strawberries etc. which are looking well. Farmers have commenced seeding somewhat earlier than for some time past. As the corn fodder and ensilage subject is a very important one, why is it not expedient to have the next meeting of the Farmers’ Institute held at once, when the matter can be thoroughly discussed in time to be of benefit for this season ! A weeks notice, with through advertising, would bring a large gathering to Brockville on any Saturday. Lyn– Saturday June 22nd 1889 The fine weather of this week has brought on the strawberry crop very rapidly. The yield promises to be very heavy and the appearance of the fruit magnificent. The Indian pickers have come and the next two weeks will be busy ones. Mr. Wm. Bullock has been on a trip through the states of Pennsylvania and New York. He reports a pleasant time. The License Commissioners have been fit to grant in Lyn the only license in the township, in the face of the petition of 49 ‘fanatics’ against it. As soon as the granting of the license became known the old stagers began to fall into line, and the old time scenes, so common before the passage of the Scott Act, are again frequently witnessed. The idiotic stare, boisterous hilarity and reeling stupidity were all to be seen at one time yesterday. But it is all right and according to Act of Parliament. But will the sighs and tears of the wives, sisters and mothers be less bitter ! Let them weep- it is their privilege; but they must be careful not to do anything to stay the cause of their tears, or they will overstep the bounds of propriety and be accused of fanaticism! Strange it is that men will pray on Sunday, “Lead us not into temptation.” And on Monday encourage the opening of a public bar to tempt the weak Is such Christianity real or burlesque ! Tuesday Oct 16, 1894 issue- Lyn- Monday Oct 16 Mr. John DeCarle of Montana, US and Miss Maggie Wilson of Lyn were married on the 11th. They leave in a few days for the west. The loss of Miss. Wilson will be much felt, as she was one of the most popular young ladies. Factories are all running now which makes things lively. On Saturday one of the oldest inhabitants of Yonge Front passed away at the ripe old age of 86 years, viz.: Mr. Peter Purvis, familiarly know as “Aunt Keziah”. She will be buried today at the stone church. Tuesday Nov 20, 1894 issue- (date show is the date on the paper, not the correct date) Lyn, Nov 26 – Hunting and fish stories are the leading topic here just now, but none of them come up to N’s in last week’s Reporter One of our clergymen put in a good word for life insurance yesterday. A couple of farmers from the Front of Yonge had quite an experience coming from Westport on Saturday evening. What would travellers do if there were no houses of entertainment along the road ? There has been quite a stir in real estate this fall. When there are no houses to rent people have to buy. Tuesday Jan. 8, 1895 issue- Lyn– Jan 7- The holidays passed off very quietly. Christmas was dull for want of sleighing. On New Year’s morning Presbyterian S.S. scholars were treated to candy and fruit, and in the afternoon the Methodist S.S. took a drive, followed by a social in the school room. The sleighing is making things lively in the wood and log business. The whistle at the saw mill sounds well after being silent for some time. Miss Naomi McCormack has been engaged to take charge of the junior classes in our school. We were sorry to loose Miss. Clow The Rev. Mr. Wright, being away for the holidays, his pulpit was filed on the 30th by a Mr. Thompson, divinity student of Princetown college. Those who staid at home on account of the storm lost a fine gospel sermon. Mr. William Langdon and lady. of Lyn, spent New Year’s with friends in the village. (Addison) Tuesday Jan. 22, 1895 issue- Mr. Charles Hayes has severed his connection with the Model farm at Maple Grove and has taken a residence in Lyn. He will be missed very much as he was a general favourite with all. We wish him and his family success in their new home. Lyn- Monday Jan 21- One of the saddest drowning accidents occurred here on Saturday. Little Joey, youngest son of Joseph Miller, went out to play after dinner and got down on the ice in the canal that carries the water to the flour mill, got through and was carried under the ice to the grating at the walkb_a_d [sic] . Willing hands went to work to get him out, but it was half and hour before the body was recovered, and although every effort was made to resuscitate him, life was extinct. What makes this accident particularly sad is that Mr. Miller lost another son by drowning about seven years ago, and also that a little precaution in covering the canal would render such an accident impossible. Mr. Miller’s family has the sympathy of the whole community. Tuesday Feb. 5, 1895 issue- Lyn- Monday Feb 4 Much sympathy is felt for John Armstrong in his illness Mr. Kilpatrick, our new school trustee is proving the right man in the right place. His knowledge of modern school methods makes him a great help to the teachers. It is hoped that our school will be raised out of the rut of old fogeyism and made what it should be. It is sheer nonsense that so many pupils should go to other places to do 5th class work that might be done here. The annual Sunday School drive of the Presbyterian S.S. takes place on the 11th, in the afternoon, and the congregational meeting in the evening – a combined social and business meeting that is always looked forward to as a very enjoyable affair. Feb. 12, 1895 issue- Lyn– Feb 11- Johnnie Armstrong is home on a flying visit, on account of his father’s illness and had a rough time making the trip. He was on the train that was run into west of Toronto, but escaped any injury except a shaking up. J. Armstrong, sr., is some better, able to go out driving. Reports from woodsmen put the depth of snow on the level at from three to six feet. Surely the regularity of the train service on the B&W this winter should convince the back country folks of the reliability of a mail service on that route. At present it takes three days to get a return mail from Delta or west of this to Lyn, and the same from Addison or Greenbush. Owing to the snow blockade, the S.S. dinner and annual meeting of the Presbyterian congregation has been postponed until Tuesday the 26th. B. Stack advertises his hotel for sale. The house has been much improved since he has occupied it and it is said to be one of the most comfortable country hotels on the road. On Saturday evening the Liberal meeting was well attended, in spite of the storm, and was very enthusiastic, every one feeling that there were good grounds for expecting a Liberal victory at Dominion elections. Tuesday March 5, 1895 issue– Lyn – Monday, Mar 4,- The annual meeting of the congregation of Christ church (Presbyterian) came off on the 30th and was a very pleasant and successful one. Reports showed increased interest in missionary, S. school and other work. The meeting was a business and social one, and all seemed to enjoy themselves. A pleasing feature in the proceedings was the presentation of a number of interesting volumes to Miss. C. Willson as a token of appreciation of her services as sec-treasurer during past years. Miss. Willson was taken completely by surprise and replied briefly. Quite a number of cases of lagrippe have developed during the last few days. Mr. Theron Thrall, our oldest inhabitant, is very low. Everybody is pleased to see John Armstrong out again and improving in health. A very serious coasting accident occurred here on Saturday evening. A party of young people were enjoying themselves on the mountain near the G.T.R. station when a toboggan collided with a stump, resulting in Miss. Etta Stafford, daughter of Wm. Stafford, Esq., having her leg broken above the knee, besides other injuries. Tuesday March 12, 1895 issue– Lyn- Monday Mar 11 – During last week both Mr. and Mrs. Thrall, an aged couple, passed away. Mr. Thrall, who has been an invalid for a number of years, died on Tuesday and his aged wife followed on Thursday. Mr. Thrall aged 86, Mrs. Thrall 75. The annual charity social came off on Friday and was quite a success. About $20. was realized. Fred Lee has opened up an ag’l machine depot here, handling implements made in the country, and is now canvassing the western section with samplers. Fred is a hustler and it will pay parties to see him before placing orders. The sleighing is good and large quantities of logs and wood are coming to the village. Tuesday March 26, 1895 issue– Lyn – Mar 18 – Mrs. N. R. Gardiner had the misfortune this morning to slip on the ice and break her arm and sprain her ankle. Wm. Bullock left today for Montreal where he intends going into the grocery business. Wm. Neilson & Sons bought four head of fat cattle through the village that they had purchased from the Stewart Brothers, Seeley’s Corners, which were a credit to them as feeders. The serious results of over study in the case of Miss. Robins is another example of the evils of the cramming system carried on in our schools. To get an education they must go to the high schools where everything is run at high pressure. It is high time that something was done to make our common schools such as would provide a good common business education. Tuesday, March 26- The Rev. Mr. Patton, missionary of the Canadian Tract Society, occupied the pulpit of the Presbyterian church yesterday, giving an account of the society’s work among the lumberman and inland sailors, which was very interesting. On Sunday next 31st, a mass meeting of the Lyn, Caintown and Mallorytown congregations will be held in the Presbyterian church, Lyn, at 3:30 p.m., when the ordination of the newly elected elders will take place. Rev. Mr. Cameron of St. John’s church, Brockville will preach. A gloom was cast over the village when it became known that Mrs. Omar Mallory had passed away. She had been very ill for some days, but was thought to be better, but on Saturday became worse until about one a.m. this morning when she died. Much sympathy is felt for Mr. Mallory and family. Yesterday (Monday), after a brief illness, Mrs. Omar Mallory of Lyn departed this life. Deceased was a daughter of Mr. Henry Judd, Mallorytown, and a sister of Mrs. I.C. Alguire, Athens. She was highly esteemed by all who knew her, and her sudden demise is a subject of sincere regret to a large circle of friends. The funeral takes place to-morrow and the remains will be interred at Mallorytown. Tuesday April 9, 1895 issue– Mr. Wm. Stafford, of the Lyn stock yards, in his report to the Department of Agriculture for the year ending Oct. 31, 1894, says: Official regulations concerning the transportation of American stock have been strictly carried out. The yards have been always kept in a good state of repair. No Canadian cattle were allowed to come in contact with the yards. All animals dead on arrival here have been buried within the isolated yards under my direction. There were 835 cars, 13,855 head of cattle; 13 cars- 855 head of cattle; 13 cars, 261 horses; and 7 cars, 1,100 head of sheep, at the station this year, all of which were unloaded, fed and watered. Rev. J.J. Wright of Lyn will occupy the pulpit of St. Paul’s Presbyterian church on Sabbath next, the pastor, Rev. J.J. Cameron taking his appointments on the Lyn Circuit. Tuesday April 23, 1895 issue– Lyn,- Monday April 22,- Another of our old residents passed away last week in the person of Mrs. Raymond. A year ago she had a paralytic stroke but recovered so far as to be able to go about, until on Monday evening last she had another and sank until Thursday noon when she died. Wallace Nicholson and wife are visiting Mr. Robert Widdis, her father, who is very ill. Mrs. Martin Hunt has returned after spending the winter with her son at Syracuse, NY Miss Jennie Raymond is home from Chicago, on account of the death of her mother, Peter Pergau has commenced building his new house on the Demming lot. Pity we did not have some more men like Peter. James McNish of Elm Grove farm is very ill. The death of Henry Robinson of Hallecks was quite a shock to the people of the village. His youngest son in now lying at the point of death. Tuesday April 30, 1895 issue– Lyn– Monday, April 29- W.Neilson & Sons have removed their meat market into the brick building near the P.O., having a fine roomy shop. The old premises are to be torn down. It was erected 49 years ago by H.E. McDonald for a shoe shop and is the oldest building on Main St., except the blacksmith shop and the Raymond house remaining as the first built. It is removing an old landmark. Rev, Mr, Wright gave the report of the Liquor committee a pretty rough handling in his discourse yesterday. Tuesday June 11, 1895 issue– Lyn– Monday June 10.- Rev. A. Mallory filed the pulpit in the Methodist church yesterday, morning and evening Everybody is pleased that Rev. Mr. Perley is to remain another year. The Hornerite tent has been here since 29th May, but has attracted very few from this neighbourhood. On Friday quite a crowd from a distance gathered in convention. It is said that they are to remain another week. Mr. Cumming is clearing away the ruins and debris of a part of the old tannery, where he intends building an addition to the Flouring Mill, to be need for grinding provender, & etc. Our factories are all running full time. The Ag’l Works are very busy sending off cultivators and horse shoes. Farmers appreciate the advantage of the reduction in prices. Prospects are fair for a crop of strawberries, but they need rain badly. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue McNish – At Brookfield, Missouri, aged 76, Lavina McNish, wife of Geo. McNish, formerly of Young Co. of Leeds, Ont mother of G.P. McNish, Lyn. Tuesday Aug 13, 1895 issue Lyn, Monday Aug. 12 – The magnificent illumination at Union Park on the 8th was witnessed by a large number from here. Our school board are over-hauling the school house and putting things in good shape – new seats, draining the basement, and putting in furnace for heating etc. The two school rooms are to be on the upper flat, leaving the lower room to be used as a town hall for the present. The union S.S. excursion takes place next week to Gananoque. The Hornerites have secured Buell’s hall as a place of worship. The quarterly meeting in the Methodist church on the 4th was largely attended. On Friday evening Mrs. Jas. Hall and her party of native Coreans [sic] drew a large audience at the Methodist church. Mrs. Hall’s description of the manners and customs of that country, and the singing and reading of the Coreans in their native tongue, were very interesting. Peter Pergan has his new home finished E.A.Cumming is putting a new boiler in his last factory Mr. H. Coleman and family are visiting his brother-in-law, Jas. Cumming, Esq. Mr. Meikle of Smith’s Falls took a spin on Sunday morning from Charleston to meet Rev. J.J. Wright, an old friend. He came by way of Athens 17 miles in 90 minutes. Tuesday Aug 13, 1895 issue Lyn O.W.Weed and wife of Sandy Creek, N.Y. are spending a few week’s with Mrs. Weed’s sister, Mrs. G.P. McNish Walker’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin has been here and gone carrying away some money and the ???? of a humbugged crowd. Tuesday Aug 27, 1895 issue Lyn– Monday Aug 28 – The union S.S. excursion came off on Friday, 23rd, and was a very pleasant affair School has opened and both scholars and teachers are much pleased with their new quarters Wm Bulloch has retires to Kyn, having sold out his interest in the grocery business in Montreal. M.Kilpatrick, our general Insurance agent, is receiving a visit from his brother from Rousa city, Mo. The visitor filled the pulpit of the Methodist church last evening very acceptably. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue Mr. U.R. Lapoint of Elizabethtown is slightly demented and when under the influence of liquor is inclined to be dangerous. Last week he armed himself with a gun and an axe and drove into Brockville where he par took of refreshments and speedily qualified for police interference. He was arrested, adjudged insane, and will be confined in the new asylum. A Lyn correspondent says: – An English sharper representing himself variously as “an expert butter maker” a commercial traveller with samples and horses at Brockville, a secret detective, etc., managed to skip a small bill at a boarding house here. He was seen afoot heading for Athens Tuesday morning. Pass him along. Messer’s. Omer and John E. Brown of Delta and Wm Bullock of Lyn, and Geo Stanton of Canton, N.Y., were fishing in Red Horse lake last Wednesday and numbered among their catch two salmon weighing respectively 20 lbs and 12 lbs. The Red Horse has furnished fine sport this season and many big catches have been made, but this twenty pounder probably breaks the record. Tuesday Sep 24, 1895 issue Lyn– Saturday, Sept 21 – One of the oldest inhabitants of this village passed away on Wednesday morning last in the person of Robert Widdis, aged 66, who has carried on the business of wagon making for over 35 years. Everybody is much pleased at the success of our local thoroughbred stock men at the fairs this fall. E.A.Cumming is placing a new steel boiler in the last factory and is overhauling and remodelling his machinery, getting ready for a busy time. The whistle of the Eyre Mfg. Co. has been heard for the last few days signifying that business had been resumed after being shut down for a time. The Ag’l Works are busy getting out plows, improved Giant root cutters, sugar arches and roller castings. The W.C.T.U. are talking of getting up an entertainment to open the new hall, provided by putting both departments of the school on the upper flat. Everybody attends their entertainments, so they are sure of a full house. The Unionville fair was voted a great success by the many who visited it from here. The “merry go round” was a great attraction to old and young, but centrifugal force was the strongest in the case of one of the “boys”. March 29, 1924 – A Lyn Landmark Destroyed The building destroyed was one of the landmark of Lyn Village. It was built many years ago by Richard Coleman and in 1854 was converted to a factory by Messer’s James Bullock and Walter Coleman. For a number of years it stood unoccupied. Early this year Mr. Drunige, who operates a saw mill at Jasper and portable sawing equipment at Maitland, purchased the building and equipped it with $2,500. worth of machinery. He had cut between 150,000 and 200,000 feet of umber since operations were started in February. Owing to limited yard space most of the lumber manufactured was drawn away daily and fortunately there was not much of the finished product on the grounds when the fire broke out. Close to 40 cords of slab wood were piled in the engine and boiled room of the plant and this gave the Brockville fireman their hardest battle in subduing the flames. The loss will be in the neighbourhood of $4,000. and although the owner of the property was away and could not be interviewed it was learned from a authoritative source that no insurance was carried on the building or contents which are a total loss The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 Greenbush- Jan 15 1889 Peace has been restored and the ‘little brown jug’ found. That ‘man in the North End’, mentioned by your occasional reporter, assisted very kindly to sample the contents. It was pronounced by the ‘expert’ to be deficient in quantity, but in quality to be up to the standard jug juice of the present day. Olds Bros. have remodelled their saw and shingle mill and are now ready to do first class work in all their branches. O.A. Willoughby, blacksmith, has invented a calk sharpener for the horse shoes. It is said by competent judges to exceed anything of the kind hitherto invented Omer has applied for a patent. Saturday Jan 26th, 1889- Another of the old settlers of this section passed away, in the person of Mrs. Emily Blanchard of Greenbush, relict of the late Ebenezer Blanchard of Greenbush. Mrs. Blanchard was in her 75th year of age and has always resided on the family homestead since her marriage. She was a member of the Society of Friends and her funeral took place at their meeting house on Sunday last, where a large concourse of friends and relatives gathered to pay the last tribute of respect to one whose memory they will long cherish with fond recollections. Greenbush, Tuesday April 9th 1889 John Forsyth had the misfortune to loose his valuable Ayrshire cow. Cause of death: want of the necessaries of life. Norton Olds, while attending the saw in Olds Bros’ mill a few days ago, noticed the saw strike a very hard substance. On examination a stone weighing five pounds was found em-bedded to the depth of eight inches in a solid oak log. The saw was considerably damaged. John McBeatney and Whitfield Pritchard start to-morrow for Manitoba, with their two valuable stallions, Eclipso and Emperor. They both intend to take up land. S.G. Smith is slowly recovering from his severe illness. We are glad to see him around again. Melissa Blanchard is very low. She has been confined to her house all winter. Robert Connell, while assisting in removing lumber from the saw at the mill, had a narrow escape, his hand being badly cut. Tuesday Jan. 8, 1895 issue- Mrs. Jno. Patterson of Greenbush will shortly dispose of her farm stock and implements (date next week) and remove to Athens to reside. On Sunday evening, George Stewart, aged 19 years, only son of Mr. Hiram Stewart, died at his home in Addison after a brief illness. On Christmas day he joined a skating party at Greenbush and contracted a severe cold, which despite the best of medical care, terminated fatally. The funeral takes place to-day at 10 a.m. Tuesday Jan. 15, 1895 issue- On Thursday, Jan 24. Mrs. Jno. Patterson, Greenbush, will offer for sale by public auction a lot of valuable farm stock, implements, etc. Sale at 1 p.m. N.E. Brown, auctioneer- See bills. Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue– Greenbush, Wednesday, Feb 20- Mr. and Mrs. B. Loverin and Mr. Clarence Blanchard are visiting friends in the United States We are sorry to learn that Coll. McBratney got kicked by a horse, but hope it will be nothing serious. Mrs. Allan Wing, who has been travelling for the good of her health, has returned to the Buster House. Mr. Merrick Mott is a guest of Mr. John Lovern. Mr. and Mrs. John Blanchard are visiting friends at Forfar. Messer’s. Geo. And John Olds, who were seriously ill, are fast improving. There must be some attraction at North Augusta that takes Messers. I. Kerr and John Loverin there frequently. What is it, John ! We wish to inform the Times correspondent of the little hamlet of Rocksprings that the “long haired hungry grits” are preparing a more expeditious vehicle than the velocipede to do duty at the next election News comes from Athens that Mr. A.E. Donovan of that village is to oppose Mr. Geo. Taylor. Mr. Donovan seems to be popular, and if he decides to run may make it hot for Mr. Taylor. People are inquiring why a certain gentleman from Frontenac who was in the habit of visiting this locality does not make his appearance. It is well to be cautious when danger is ahead. Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue– Mrs. John Patterson of Greenbush and Lorren N. Brown, Addison and their families are among the latest additions to Athens’ population. Tuesday April 9, 1895 issue– Greenbush – Monday, April 8 – Mr. Arthur Tinkis returned home on Saturday last from Queen’s College, Kingston Mr. Morton Sanford of Brockville with his daughter Victoria, visited relatives here Saturday. Sugar making is taking the attention of most of our citizens just now and during these pleasant evenings the merry shouts of the boys can be hears resounding through the woods. Quite a number from here attended the social at Mr. Clarence Blanchard’s on Friday evening last and report having a good time and lots of sugar. Miss Grace Unsworth of Brockville is the guest of Miss Bertha Blanchard, and Miss M. Gault is visiting Mrs. Norton Olds. Miss Anna Culbert, of Merrickville, has returned home after an extended visit to friends and relatives here. Our enterprising blacksmith, Mr. Jas. Hewitt, is giving his shop a new coat of paint. Miss May Johnson of Irish Creek is the guest of Miss Helen Dixon who recently returned from New York where she was visiting her sister, Mrs. Howard McGrath. Miss Rose Peterson of Belleville is visiting her aunt, Mrs. John Loverin. Tuesday April 23, 1895 issue– Greenbush– Monday, April 22,- Sugar making is over and people are gathering their sap buckets. Our cheese factory opens to-day with Mr. Davis in charge assisted by Mr. D. Fenlong. Mr. Ernest Loverin has gone from amongst us and will spend the summer in Forfar learning to make cheese. We are pleased to hear that Miss Kietha Blanchard who has been on the sick list for the past two weeks, is much better. Dr. S.S. Cornell is in attendance. Mr. Ed Smith entertains a new ‘royal guest’ at his fireside. It’s a girl. We would think it nothing more than fair if your Addison correspondent would attend the public doings of his village before trying to report thereon. His information must have been more remote than second hand when he got ‘sugar social’ changed to ‘toe social’ and ‘literary concert to ‘resurrection concert’. It is to be hoped it wasn’t on Easter Sunday night he wrote his news for the Reporter and so got things mixed up. Mr. Will Kerr is spending a few days with his uncle Mr. Thos. Kerr. Easter was remembered by the ladies of our church some of them bringing plants and flowers, but the display was very small when we consider the number of successful amateur florists we have amongst us. Tuesday May 7, 1895 issue– Greenbush, Monday May 6,- Farmers are busy with their seeding Mrs. Levi Stone who, with her two children, has been visiting her father, Mr. Robt. Connell, during the past winter, started for her home in Tacoma, Wash., last Thursday. She was accompanied as far as Carleton Place by Mrs, Connell, who intends visiting some relatives at that place. The house of Mr. Geo. Langdon, about a mile west of here, had a narrow escape from being burned on Tuesday last. The fire was caused by some sparks alighting on the roof. With the prompt assistance of some of the neighbors, the flames were extinguished in time to save the house. The illness of Mrs. Alex. Blanchard who has been an invalid for the past six years, has taken a serious turn and small hope is entertained of her recovery She has the sympathy of the entire community in her suffering. Mr. A.L. Tinkess left last Saturday for New York where he intends to spend the summer. The remains of Ms Walker, whose maiden name was Elizabeth Kerr, were brought to the family burying ground on the farm of Richard Kerr for interment on Thursday last. The Rev. Johnathan Kerr, brother of the deceased, accompanied the remains to Brockvil’e where he was joined by the other members of the family. Tuesday May 21, 1895 issue– Greenbush- Monday May 20- Mr. and Mrs. J. Johnson of Smith’s Falls are still in our village We are sorry to hear of the illness of Mr. Henry Patterson and hope it may not prove serious. Tuesday June 18, 1895 issue– Greenbush, Monday, June 17 – Mr. Robt. Ricket is busy repairing his house. Quite a successful Sunday school picnic was held last Saturday at H.L. Kerr’s beautiful grove. A bountiful repast was partaken of, after which the sports commenced and lasted until evening. Prof. Benn gave a free lecture on the horse here last Saturday evening and endeavoured to form a class to receive instruction in the care of domestic animals, especially the horse, but failed to get enough pupils and so intends leaving our village for Addison. Mr. Maurice Shaver of Ottawa arrived in our village Saturday evening and accompanied his wife and daughter home to-day. Mr. Philemon Olds of Gouverneur, N.Y., and Mr. Jas. Olds of Morristown, N.Y., made a short visit to relatives and friends here last week. Mr. Howard McGath of New York joined his wife and daughter last Saturday in their visit at Mr. Geo. Dixon’s where they will remain another week. Tuesday July 2, 1895 issue Greenbush– Saturday, June 29 – The strawberry festival last Thursday evening on the lawn at Mr. Ed Stowell’s, under the auspices of the Ladies’ Aid Society of Addison, was a decided success. The evening was fine, the lawn was nicely illuminated, while the shower of the previous day had gladdened the hearts of the people; the Athens Citizens’ band furnished abundance of choice music, and everything seemed conductive to merriment and good cheer. The grocery on the grounds was under the able management of Mr. Byron Loverin and yielded a good profit. Misses Maud Taplin and Lizzie Kelly helped to swell the financial profit of the evening by selling home made candy and bouquets. Tuesday July 9, 1895 issue Greenbush, Monday, July 8 – Mrs. E. Harris of Mt. Pleasant, Michigan, with Mr. Noah Marshall of Toledo, made a short call in our village last Saturday en route for Toledo, where Mrs. Harris is going to attend the sick bed of her aunt, Mrs. Noah Marshall. Considerable trouble has been made in our factory by some of the patrons sending bad milk. Inspector Publow has made two or three visits lately and strongly urges the better care of the milk. Another of our young men, Mr. Herbert Olds has given up celibacy for matrimonial bliss, having been married to Miss Maria Gault at the residence of the bride’s parents, Brockville, last Monday, July 1st. Their many friends join in wishing them long life and happiness. Farmers say that rain is very much needed, many of them having to cut their hay prematurely as it was drying out so badly. The crop is very light and many have already finished haying. School has closed and our popular teacher, Mr. Byron Haskins, intends spending part of his vacation at New Dublin. Mrs. Norris Loverin spent last week with her son in Athens. Tuesday Aug 13, 1895 issue Greenbush Monday, Aug. 12 – Miss Ethel Blanchard of Athens was visiting relatives and friends here last week. The recent rains have brightened vegetation and the farmers are reaping a fair crop of grain. Miss Bertha Blanchard has returned from her sojourn with the family of Rev Wm. Knox of Ashton A large concourse of people attended services in our church on Sunday evening last, conducted by the Rev. Wm. Pimlot. There will be preaching here every alternate Sunday evening instead of always in the morning as formerly. Last week Messrs. Theodore Blanchard and Byron Loverin made a visit to the farm of Fletcher Bros., Oxford Mills, for the purpose of purchasing some thoroughbred stock with a view to improving their dairy. Mr. German Tinkis of South Indian spent last week in our village on a visit to his mother. The trustees of our church advertised for tenders for the painting of the walls and ceiling of our church. One of our young men wanted ‘us four’ to go for a pic-nic to Charleston on Saturday last, but the fourth one couldn’t go as her mamma wouldn’t consent, so Billy had to scour the country for some one to fill the void in the company, but with all his energy failed to do so. And as Jack thinks there is a good deal of fun in seeing Billy get left so badly, he didn’t hesitate to say so. As a consequence they have already had one pugilistic encounter and another is expected when they meet without their good clothes on. Mrs. And Mr. J. Johnson of Smith’s Falls are visiting relatives here. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue Greenbush, Monday, Sept. 2 – Mrs. Almeron Blanchard is in New York visiting her sons. Messrs. John Olds, John McBratney and James Fenlong are among those who took part in the harvesters’ excursion to the North West Mr. Ricket’s house, when finished, will make a great improvement to our village. Mr. Talmage Smith of Brockville spent Sunday with his mother here. Mr. and Mrs. Dowsley of Brockville are the gusets of Ms. Gilbert Olds Mr.E.Olds of Morristown, New York is spending a few days with relatives here. Mr. Chas. Kerr of Athens is putting a new roof on the church here. Messes. Metcalfe & Snow of Smith’s Falls are engaged in painting the walls and ceiling. Both improvements were very much needed. Miss Keitha Blanchard starts to-day to attend the Athens high school. We wish her every success. Tuesday Oct 1, 1895 issue In passing through this district we were much pleased to notice the improvements that have been carried out in the Methodist church of Addison and Greenbush under the superintendence of the popular and much respected gentleman, Rev., Mr. Pimlott. Tuesday Oct 8, 1895 issue Byron W. Loverin of Greenbush left a basket containing 16 potatoes at the Reporter office last week that tipped the scale at 27 lbs., the largest weighing 3 lbs and 2 oz. The weighing was done by B.D. Judson, which is proof that the weights are correct. These potatoes are of the Rural New Yorker No. 2 variety from seed purchased from H.N. Hawks, Addison. We propose dividing this basket of potatoes into two lots and giving them as a premium to any two of our subscribers who will send in one new yearly subscriber each to the Reporter, accompanied by the cash ($1.00), which will pay up to Jan. 1st, ’97. The first come, first served. Tuesday Oct 15, 1895 issue Greenbush, Monday, Oct. 14 – The corn crop being very heavy this year, husking bees are the order of the day. Wedding bells are to ring in our midst this week. Our church, which has been repaired and painted, will have reopening services on the 27th and 28th of this month. The trustees of the church are to be congratulated on securing the services of such excellent painters as Snow & Metcalfe, of Smith’s Falls Among those from here who took in the annual excursion to New York were Miss O Tinkes, Messers Almeron Blanchard and Geo. Dixon Mr. A.L. Tinkes, who spent the summer in New York, returned last week and will attend Queen’s College, Kingston. Tuesday Nov 5, 1895 issue Greenbush – Mr.A.L.Tinkiss, who started for Kingston on Saturday the 26th ult., was taken seriously ill at Westport with pneumonia, where he is now under the doctor’s care. His mother, Mrs. Simeon Loverin is with him. Mr. and Mrs. M. McCormack and Mrs. J. Olds of Morristown, N.Y., attended the funeral of the late Wm. Olds which took place here last Monday. Tuesday Nov 5, 1895 issue Greenbush Re-opening There was a large attendance at the re-opening of the Greenbush Methodist church on the 27th alt. when service was conducted by Rev. J.S. Reynolds of Elgin. On the following Tuesday evening a tea and entertainment was held at which a very pleasant time was spent. Mr. Keeler of Brockville presided. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 Glen Buell – Jan 22 1889 There is likely to be a change in the personnel at the Bell Farm managers for the coming season. It is generally understood from hints thrown out by the genial president in his after dinner speech at the annual school meeting that he will be looking for higher honours in the near future. The wily old president was wide awake for his own interests when he made the statement that ‘if his friends and the Reporter stuck to him as closely during the coming year as they did in the past, that he would have no difficulty in securing the position of Reeve of the Township for the year 1890’ Why do we not get a published statement from the proprietor of Glen Buell Cheese factory respecting prices the patrons received for milk and cheese for the year 1888. Glen Buell: Saturday Jan 26th, 1889- Early Friday afternoon, Professor David and a number of the Eureka Troop arrived in town and at once began active preparations in Manufacture’s Hall of the concert that evening. Old January, with all his faults favored the troop and all interested with a fine night for the occasion. At half-past seven nearly every possible seat in the room was occupied, excepting the one arranged for the Professor of Music, who had not arrived from Addison. However after a few minutes delay he claimed his chair, and Prof. David appeared on stage and made his maiden speech which was, as the school boy remarked, just right- short and sweet. The programme for the evening was complete and remarkably well rendered by the Troopers. The play of Aunt Polly visiting the Grove was excellent. The part played by ‘Betsey Ann’ in the dialogue, ‘The Mysterious Box’ was well received by all present. The recitations given by Mrs. D.J.Forth and Miss. Mande Addison were remarkably well rendered and well received. The music for the occasion was all that could be desired. We are free to admit that the concert under Prof. David’s management was a success. ‘Jolly John’ upon enquiry found that he was acquainted with Manager David. Secro Snowflake was the worst specimen of humanity that we ever saw. Master Handsome performed his art with credit. The darkey who managed the curtain was a little fresh. Receipts were good. Glen Buell– Monday March 4th 1889. We notice with pleasure that our cousins of the progressive Methodist Church are getting large quantities of building material for their new synagogue. The trustee board have secured from Boyd Hall, Esq. a valuable lot on Main Street, nearly opposite the family residence of the General Superintendent of the Bell Farm Syndicate Co. Mr.John Sturgeon ad wife are enjoying their annual vacation among friends and relatives near Carleton Place. Our Butcher Boy, of the East End has provided himself with a black-thorn stick, in preparation for the Donnybrook Fair, to be held on the 17th inst. Glen Buell, Monday, March 25th1889 For a length of time our Glen Buell people have not had a practical shoemaker. We are pleased, however, to notice that John Earl Jr., has purchased the tools, stock in trade, and good-will of the old cobbler’s business and opened up a shop on Earl St. Mr. Earl is a young man of good industrious habits has served three or four years in a large concern in Belleville, Ont., and is qualified to look after the business of this line of trade. Give him an order and thus encourage this young man. Death, that old enemy of man, recently entered the family residence of Mr. E. Westlake, Point Edward and claimed his victim their youngest child, Dora, about three years old. Miss. Turney has arrived home after a pleasant vacation of two weeks among her many friends at Lombardy. Our public school board deserve much credit for the choice made by them in the selection of a teacher for the present term. She is an active, energetic, wide awake teacher. She has charge of about forty children in the public school, runs a private class two nights in the week, attends church without fail on the Sabbath, and entertains her friends in the evening. Mr. H. Sandford and his wife, who have held very important positions in connection with the celebrated Bell Farm Company, have removed to Smith’s Falls. The lack of their company, counsel, and advice on questions of importance, will be keenly felt by the president. Glen Buell, Monday April 1st 1889 A few weeks ago, a lady from Chipmuck Valley called on the owner of Charity Island and informed her that owing to the changed condition of her finances, consequent upon the successful termination of her suit for back-number alimony, against the estate of the deceased millionaire, she had decided to retire from active participation in poultry raising, and was prepared to dispos of the greater portion of her stock. After considerable haggling, a bargain was struck and part of the purchase money was advanced. O her arrival home the Chipmuck Valley lady found a lady from Dogtown waiting to see her with a view to purchasing the same lot of bipeds to which end she offered 25 cents more than the first purchaser. The offer was accepted, and the fowl were at once removed to the genial climate of Dogtown. When the Charity Island lady drove over to take home her purchase, she was blandly told that the tempting offer of the Dogtown lady had secured the geese. A feeling of chagrin at being beaten out of a good bargain by a younger lady, and the desire to make the original owner squirm, prompted the lady to offer 50 cents more than the last purchaser. A happy thought struck the recipient of the millionaire’s bounty. Here was a fine chance to win renown in the field of diplomacy. She told the would be purchaser to go home contented and she would have the fowl, and straightway hired away to the happy possessor of the much sought after property. With demure face she announced that there would be a lot of trouble if she could not get the fowl back for Charity Island. After a long and animated discussion, the original owner of the fowl secured a promise that upon the return of the deposit money the coveted geese should be turned over to the Charity Island lady. Late that evening a team was sent from Charity Island for the fowl. Arrived at Dogtown the teamster was beguiled with entertaining conversation, while the ex butcher hastily placed the web footed squawkers in a basket and carried them to the sleigh. Returning to Charity Island the tired and sleepy teamster took the fowl from the basket and placed them in a shed with some more of their species. The lateness of the hour and tired condition of the favourite son did not prevent him from noticing the fowl felt as if they had been sent out into the cold without their full quota of nature’s covering, and on entering the house he remarked that the geese had a mighty thin covering for the time of the year. Next morning the poor geese were found in a deplorable plight and had to be carried in and thawed out at the kitchen stove. Thereafter they were kept in the cellar for three weeks and blanketed. Your correspondent discovered that the Goose Pickers Association of Dogtown had met on the afternoon of the final sale and transfer, and anonymously resolved to pick the fowl clean, in order that the purchaser number two might be cheated out of the downy feathers. Glen Buell– May 7 1889 We hope to be able to give your readers a short account of how work is progressing on the Bell Farm next week. The genial president has returned from Charleston Lake, where he had been superintending the building of the stairs in the new Armstrong House, The deputy toll taker is in trouble again. It is said that a man hailing from the classic city out by the “gagin’ canaul” [sic] in a fit of absentmindedness drove trough the tollgate without paying the fee. The deputy made up his mind that he had been cheated out of his lawful dues times enough; so hastily ordered one of the subordinates on the farm to hitch up a horse, he started after the delinquent at a break neck pace. Which about a mile on the road to Athens, he succeeedes by his wild and almost frantic shouting and gesticulations in attracting the attention of the traveller. A bait was made, and when Richard drove up the traveler mildly asked what was the matter. “You haven’t paid to toll” blurted out Richard. “Oh! I’m so sorry to have given you trouble, but I quite forgot all about it.” Said the traveller. “To what part of the globe are you bound ?” asked Richard. “I’m bound for Frankville” quoth the traveller. “Then you are on the wrong road.” Said the deputy, and thereupon both turned around and retraced their way to Unionville. Arriving at the crossroad, Richard pointed out the way, when, with many thanks from the traveler sped on his journey. All at once a bewildering thought struck the deputy. Here he had been and gone fully a mile after an entire stranger, in order to collect a toll, and had expended a lot of wind in trying to make him stop. Then he had befriended him by pointing out the right way, and all he had received in return was a very polite “Thank You.” And the way he spurted back and forth between the toll bar and the provision counter was sad to behold. Saturday July 20- 1889 Dr. Jas. H. Hall, an old Glen Buell boy well known here, is meeting with much success in New York city, He graduated with honors from the Medical Missionary Institute, and afterwards was placed in charge of a dispensary at Castle Garden, a position requiring much arduous labor. I addition to this post, the doctor has charge of the Tremont Hospital. Dr. Hall is a young man of industry and ability and we predict for him a very useful career in the medical missions of the Flowery Empire, to which he intends devoting his life. Tuesday Oct 30, 1894 issue- Glen Buell– Monday Oct 29. Much interest was taken in the result of the great squirrel hunt of last week between ye men of the woods who are lovers of the gun and residents of Spring Valley. They issued a challenge to the red men of the glen to go into a friendly competition in order that the fact of superior skills might be made known to the public. Tuesday Nov 20, 1894 issue- (date show is the date on the paper, not the correct date) Glen Buell, Nov 26- Some time ago Ethiopean John, while rusticating in the woods back of Glossville, came across a very large black bear. Having no weapon and lacking sufficient courage to attack him single handed, he retreated to the house of his host, the well known steam threshing machine man, where be succeeded in getting a gun and the assistance of ‘Forgie’ to help slay the dangerous animal. Throwing off the governor belt they soon arrived at the scene of his bearship, but, lo ! to their amazement, the bear turned out to be a large black cat. Score one for John who says that his eyes must have magnified that cat. On Thursday last a number of our young people spent a very enjoyable evening at the residence of Mr. Geo. Hall. The social under the auspices of the Epworth League will be held in the schoolhouse next Thursday evening. Besides refreshments there will be a good programme of recitations, songs, etc. A good time is anticipated. Tuesday Jan. 1, 1895 issue- Glen Buell Mr. John Westlake is seriously ill Miss Louise Earl is home from Chicago visiting her parents. Anther member is added to the family of Mr. Jno. Lee of Reynard Valley. Our local cheese makers, Messrs Jas. Kirkland and Sheldon Hudson are home for the winter. They both look hale and hearty. On Wednesday, Dec 19, one of our most popular young men in the person of Mr. Alvin Gilroy was united in marriage to Miss. Lena Yates of Athens. Rev. Mr. Perley conducted the ceremony. We wish the young couple a happy, prosperous journey through life. Some enterprising agent could find ready sale for a couple of hand organ of the improved kind. No cranks would be required with the articles, as we are well supplied with these and they are of musical nature too. The entertainment which took place on Wednesday, Dec 19th, was a grand success. The children who took part in it showed that their instructors, Mrs. Forth and Miss. Clow, did their utmost to make entertainment as pleasing and interesting as possible. The recitations by Misses Towriss, Henderson, Orton and Whaley, and Mesrs. Lynn and Stewart were given in their usual good style and gave evidence that thre is no lack of talent in that direction here. The musical part played no small share towards making the entertainment a success. We beg leave to thank the Addison orchestra for the choice selections rendered by them. The instrumental music furnished by Master Allen Lapointe showed marked ability and as time advances we hope to see him one of the shinning lights in the musical world. The Christmas tree fairly groaned under its weight of presents for the children. After receiving these a treat of nuts and candies was given them, and all went home feeling happy. Before closing we must not forget to thank genial John Yates for the very able manner in which he filled the chair. Tuesday Jan. 8, 1895 issue- Glen Buell – Saturday, January 5- For some time in the past the ex-champion of the ring, who has lately put himself into training for the final match with his dusky foe, has been of the opinion that trailing the cunning fox alone and unobserved does not impart the necessary muscle and ambition to spread the colored man over the arena in three rounds. Acting upon these convictions, he decided to make a grand fox hunt through the holidays and sweep the game in some foreign locality out of existence and, as the artist of North Augusta gave such a glowing account of the magnificent game where he came from, the land of his nativity was selected as the scene of the slaughter- Great were the preparations made for the feasting and merry making of the party and for the proper care of the hounds when they reached the hunting grounds. The shades of the evening were beginning to fall when the party started from Pt. Edward, the ex-champion riding with the artist, who acted as a guide. After passing the B&W crossing the artist awoke to the fact that he was not foremost of the caravan, and as the most distinguished should always lead he decided to get there or hurt someone in the attempt, but soon found out to his disappointment that his camel wasn’t quick enough. This might be accounted for, however, as the animal transported a very heavy load consisting of, besides the two men (both heavy weights), “Watch” the famous bloodhound out of Dogtown, a quarter of horsemeat, a turkey and several other stables named in the bill of fare, too numerous to mention. But a happy thought struck the artist and instead of following the trail around to the Glen, as the others had done, he took the cross track between the White House and Pt. Peter. They had not gone far on this trail, however when the ex-champion, in his excitement imagining that he was in close pursuit of a fox, began to sway his massive frame from side to side in the endeavour to get a glimpse of the fleeting visions and in doing this rocked over the cutter and all therein was thrown violently into a snow bank. The artist pluckily held on to the reins for a few rods sweeping enough snow off the road to give him a good recommendation to the managers of the BW as a snow plow. The ex-champion fell on Watch burying him in the snow, but as soon as he had dug his way out he started for home at a rate that would distance the swiftest fox. The runaway horse ran into a farm yard , then on a lane where he freed himself from the cutter and started for the North Pole, but after getting over its fright it decided to remain in Canada and stopped in the shade of some bushes until it was discovered by some of the party soon afterwards. The animal was brought back to the cutter, which was but slightly injured. A little hay wire was ut into use and all was soon in good running order again. Its cargo was reloaded, all except Watch and ex-champion, who refused the invitation to again recline on the downy robes. As yet we have not heard the result of the chase, but suspect that the slaughter of game was great. We think however, if excitement imparts strength to the ex-champion the colored champion in the coming match will be scattered to the four winds of the earth. Tuesday Jan. 22, 1895 issue- The proprietor of the Model farm at Mt. Pleasant has been engaged for the past week hauling wood from his timber limit at Glen Buell. Tuesday Jan. 29, 1895 issue- Jack Westlake, and old and respected resident of Glen Buell, died on Sunday evening. Funeral takes place at the Methodist church, Glen Buell, to-day (Tuesday) at half past eleven o’clock. Tuesday April 16, 1895 issue– Glen Buell, Monday, April 15,- 7,000 lbs. of milk were taken in on Monday, April 15, at our factory here. This amount speaks well for the cheese-maker N.Stewart, who is a general favourite. Parker Seaman has moved to a small place near Borne, N.Y., where he will have charge of a cheese and butter factory. The funeral of the late Mrs. Bennet Towriss took place last Sunday at our church. An able and eloquent sermon was preached by Rev. Mr. Hagar of Athens, from Rev., 14 Chap., 13 vs. Mrs. Towriss was a daughter of the late Jerry Bullis and was born in this neighbourhood. She was in the 54th year of her age, and was a strong healthy woman until about a year ago when she was taken with diabetes from which complaint she died on Friday night last. Lillian Hall and Albert Sturgeon are spending their Easter holidays at home. We are sorry to hear that the later met with quite an accident in the sugar bush by cutting his foot severely with an ax. A number of our farmers are shipping maple syrup to the west. If the farmers depended on rain water for making maple syrup, a vast quantity would be made. We see the genial face of Mr. Moorhouse in our midst again. Welcome back, John. Tuesday April 30, 1895 issue– Glen Buell– Monday, April 29.- A new bicycle in town The Epworth League was conducted by Miss Towriss last Friday evening. The Rev. C.F. Buker was visiting friends at the Hall last week. The result of the fishing party of last week was that Mr. N. Stewart caught a severe cold and was very ill for a few days. Sawing machines are something of the past. The boys expect to get their board next week. The bicycle owned by H.Lynn met with an accident the other evening and was taken up to Galillee to be repaired, but the professor’s skill not being sufficient for the task he was obliged to return it to the owner. Tuesday June 25, 1895 issue– There was a large number of Friends passed through (New Dublin) here on Wednesday to attend the funeral of Mrs. Joseph Hayes of Glen Buell. Tuesday July 9, 1895 issue Glenn Buell, Monday, July 8 – The long wished for rain has come at last. Though too late to help the hay, it will do unlimited good. Mrs. Alvin Gilroy is convalescent C.J. Gilroy our worthy postmaster is on an extended tour up West, after having placed and imbecile boy, brought up by T. Whitford, in the asylum maintained in Orillia. Four people from our school tried entrance examinations at Athens. This speaks well in favour of Miss Booth the teacher seeing that no pupil has tried the entrance for four years. Glen Buell is to be congratulated on securing the services of so efficient a teacher. Mrs. Dr. W.J. Hall is daily expected. Tuesday July 16, 1895 issue Glen Buell– Monday July 8. – Mrs. G.A. Gilroy has been suffering very badly with quinsy, but we are glad to be able to say she is much better and has gone to Athens to spend a few days with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J.F. Yates Mr. Howard Moorehouse has also been suffering with quinsy, but is on the road to recovery. We think there is another house in this neighbourhood that ought to have outside windows on, to keep it calm inside, as the neighbors can hear every time they have a big storm; so, if it would be of any benefit to them (as it certainly would do the neighbors) we would advise them, by all means to have them put on, or at least close their shutters so that the language of the much respected lady of the house will not disturb the slumbers of the public, as it has a very bad influence on the young, and we will then hope that there will be no more straw set afire or calves killed. Ethiopian John has changed his occupation from a farmer to barber, so that any person having the misfortune of getting one side of his whiskers pulled out can get them all trimmed up equal to Mr. McLaughlin, free of charge. Mr. C.J.Gilroy and Master Willie Whitford are taking a trip to Orillia and write that they are having a very pleasant time. Tuesday July 16, 1895 issue Glen Buell Monday, July 15, Most of the farmers in this vicinity have finished haying. It is not necessary to say that many of the farmers are already buying hay. Miss Stella Orton was the only successful candidate from this school in the late entrance exams. Mr. John Anderson met with quite an accident the other day by his horses trying to run away with the mowing machine. At first it was thought that he was seriously injured, but he escaped with some serious bruises on his leg and is now able to walk around. Miss Minnie T. Sturgeon has returned home from attending the high school in Harriston Mr. Fawcett of Drayton is on an extended visit in this vicinity. Mr. Robert Latimer is still on he sick list. We miss him very much in the church. The pulpit here was ably filled last Sunday by Rev. Mr. Warren who preached an eloquent sermon from Gal.VI: 7 and 8 Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue Mr. and Mrs. G.A. Gilroy of Glen Buell visited at R.J. Sturgeon’s (Fairfield East) on Sunday last. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue Glen Buell Monday, July 22 – Dr. Rosetta Sherwood Hall, (wife of the late Rev. W.J. Hall, medical missionary in Corea [sic]) and family have arrived safely at Glen Buell, the home of his Canadian parents. She has one son and daughter, small children. She has also two native Coreans with her, Mr. Pak and wife. Mrs. Pak assisted Mrs. Hall in her medical mission work in Corea considerably, and is brought to America by Mrs. Hall to be educated as a full fledged doctor of medicine, then go to her native country and thus be in a position to get very much nearer to her sister Coreans in need than any foreigner can hope . Ever since it became known that Mrs. Hall would return from Corea to her native home at Liberty, N.Y., the very many friends of Wm. J. Hall M.D. have been looking forward with much interest to the arrival of his wife and children at Glen Buell. Preparations are being made for a public welcome of the beloved Doctor’s wife and children in the beautiful little church, in the building of which the doctor was an earnest and most willing helper. Wednesday evening, July 31st, has been set apart for that purpose. Any person wishing to see and hear Mrs. Hall and her Corean friends would do well to embrace the opportunity, which is one of a life time. Wm. Karley, wife and children of Montreal are at present enjoying their vacation at the home of our genial friend, D.J. Forth. Considerable interest is now manifested in the preparations for the coming camp meeting in Forth’s grove. Miss Orton, of the White House, has gone east on a holiday visit. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue Glen Buell Saturday, July27 – Mrs. Dr Hall and children, also a Corean [sic] and his wife, have arrived from New York City, to visit her father-in-laws, Mr. George Hall’s Mrs. R.G. Sturgeon has gone to Algonquin to spend a few days with her sister, Ms. Henry Greene, and will visit the Brockville asylum and other prominent places on her way home. We feel in duty bound to warn our friends of the danger of eating much canned fruit and vegetables, as one person in the vicinity has been very ill for so doing. Mrs. Milton Dancy has returned from Elgin where she has been visiting friends for the last two weeks. The wolf is still prowling around, and though treated to a dose of shoe leather, it is still fared that he will yet capture one of the tender lambs. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue Miss Jennie Goodall of Glen Buell is the guest of Misses DeWolfe, Reid st. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue Glen Buell, Saturday, Aug. 31. – Mr. George Gibson and Lady of Mallorytown passed through our village last week en route to visit friends at Addison The camp meeting held here has been the saviour of life to many. One good sister from Frankville says she is going to carry the fire home with her, as there is much need of it in her village. We hope the fruits of her labours may be blest and many be brought to the Saviour. Mr. C.J. Gilroy and son shipped their celebrated heard of choice thoroughbred cattle on this morning’s train to the Kingston exhibition. One of our north wards citizens claims to be the champion curd-eater of this section. A pound a day is putting it mild. A couple of King street gents from Addison passed through our village recently enquiring the way to Jerico. After some deliberation it was decided to go by Brock’s. Arriving at their destination all right, they had a good time, only they frightened the good matron a little by their sudden appearance on the scene. We wish them every success. Great preparations are being made for our fair this season, which promises to be the best ever held. Tuesday Sep 10, 1895 issue New Dublin, Monday, Sept.9. – It is currently reported here that the junior curd official of Glen Buell made an excursion west to Lake street with a beautiful little maid in her teens. While in the house some little trouble arose whereby our beloved son of the Glen had a special mark placed on his beautiful face. We advise the junior to be careful in future about entering upon new fishing grounds. Tuesday Oct 15, 1895 issue Glen Buell, Friday, Oct 11. – Miss Lucy Hall is away visiting friends at Almonte. Mr. and Mrs. Henry Greene visited at R.G. Sturgeon’s on Sunday last. There is a certain lady in our village who is very curious to know who the Glen Buell correspondent is. She interviewed the Dogtown dairyman some time ago, and silenced him, and she now accuses our Glen Buell dairyman. So, beware, Mr Editor, and don’t give her my name; for woe betides me if she knew it. Mr. and Mrs. W.H. Davis have been visiting friends in Detroit for the past week. Mr. and Mrs. R.J. Sturgeon made a flying visit through here one day last week. Mr. and Mrs. B.S. McConnell and sister assisted in our choir last Sunday. Any person wishing to engage a first class gardener can see one at Paul’s Point almost any time. Potato digging is the order of the day now. The latest and best way of drawing them in is to put a barrel on your chain boat and then hitch your Ayrshire cow to it. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing the following hamlet for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 Tuesday Oct 30, 1894 issue- Frankville, Oct 28- The new fence erected in front of the McCrea property adds much to its appearance. Wesley Brown’s new house is nearly completed on the outside and the inside is now being plastered Mrs. Gilroy, who has been spending the past week with friends here, has returned to her home in Athens Miss. Montgomery, who has been spending the summer here, has returned to her home in New York. Mr. Andrews, of Clinton, is visiting relatives here. We regret to announce the serious illness of Benjamin Brown. Some of the patrons think their cheese is being docked about ¾ of a cent. Chas. Pepper is employed in the blacksmith shop of O.I.Monroe. A hunting party left here on Thursday last for Crotch lake. The party included W.Hanton, C.Leehy, Dr. M.L. Dixon, O.L. Munroe and L. Brown The Rev. Dr. Griffith, M.A., Ph. D., of Brockville delivered a lecture in the Methodist church on Friday evening last. Subject: “Character Building” It was highly appreciated. Two mill wrights from Brantford are now placing the new machinery in Mr. S. Runnings saw mill and will soon have it in working order Nov 18, 1894 issue- Frankville, Friday, November 9- Miss. Edith Gilroy of Athens is visiting friends here. Mr. Don Southworth of the Recorder was in the village on Thursday last. Miss. Lily Good is again confined to her room through illness. Miss. Jennie Hanton has a successful operation performed on Sunday last by Drs. Dixon, Burns and Connerty, and from last accounts is getting along nicely. The new machinery in Mr. Running’s saw mill was started on Thursday last and is giving good satisfaction. We regret the departure of Mr. C.B. Tallman, who we learn has bought the stock of Mr. Stevens of Lyndhurst and will move there shortly. Mr.and Mrs. Tallman take with them the best wishes of many Frankville friends. The Orange Lodge of Toledo in full regalia, attended divine services here in the Methodist church on Sunday morning, Nov. 4th, where a very impressive sermon was preached by the Rev. G.H.Porter, M.A., B.D. for the occasion. Tuesday Dec. 4, 1894 issue- Frankville, Saturday Dec 1 – Hog killing is the order of the day. Mr. Alex Compo of Athens is engaged in Mr. Running’s saw mill. Rumors say one of our young men is about to join the Benedicts Miss. Lilly Good, who has been ill for some time is gaining slowly. Our cheese factory, Farmers’ Friend is still running. Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Running, of Charleston, spent a few days last week with relatives here. Mr. Wesley Brown is about ready to move into his new house. Tuesday Dec. 18, 1894 issue- Frankville– Dec 14- Our cheese factory, Farmers Friend is still improving. Mr. Wesley Brown has moved into his new house. Miss. Jennie Broughton left on Friday last to spend her ‘Xmas holidays at her home in Brantford. There is a good opening here for a first class tinsmith The officers of the Methodist Sabbath school are preparing an excellent program for their annual ‘Xmas tree and entertainment to be held on ‘Xmas eve. Miss Dilla Percival of Brockville is visiting relatives here. The Rev. Wm. Sparling, B.D. of Easton’s Corners delivered a lecture in the Methodist Church on Saturday evening last under the auspices of the Epworth League Subject, “Conscience” and it was highly appreciated. It is with deep regret we chronicle the death of Mr. Ezra Ireland which sad event occurred on Saturday, Dec. 8th, at 8 p.m. Deceased was 62 years old, widely known and highly respected and was a son of the late Lewis Ireland, who emigrated here some eighty years ago. The Rev. G. H. Porter, M.A., B.D. conducted the last sad rites of deceased in the Methodist church on Thursday, 11th inst. At 10 a.m. and the funeral was largely attended. The remains were placed in the Athens vault. He leaves a widow, one son and one daughter- Mrs. E.T. Latimer, of Lansdowne, and Alfred who resides at home. The mourning friends have the sympathy of the whole community in their sad bereavement. On Christmas night the Sabbath school of the Methodist church, Toldeo, intend holding their grand annual entertainment in the town hall, when an excellent programme will be presented, consisting of cantata, readings, dialogues, tableaux, recitations, pantomimes, etc. The Toledo Orchestra Band will furnish music. Admission 15¢ February 12th, 1889 Mr. W.F.Earl, our enterprising young tin merchant, is about to open a branch tin shop and stove depot at Frankville March 25, 1889 While attending a circular saw the other day, Mr. Frank Ireland, of Frankville, met with a very painful accident. The saw caught his hand between the thumb and forefinger, tearing away a large piece of flesh. Frankville, Monday April 15th, 1889 Miss. Jessie Barrington has opened a dress making establishment in our village Saturday June 22nd 1889 A strawberry social will be held at Mr. Marney Loucks’, Frankville on the 28th inst. Fruit will be served at 7 pm, after which an evening will be spent in social intercourse. A free will offering will be taken up in aid of the fund for furnishing the Methodist parsonage at Frankville. Tuesday Jan. 1, 1895 issue- The annual meeting of Kitley Ag’l Sciety will be held at the Edger’s House, Frankville on Thursday, Jan 10th. A full attendance of members is requested Frankville– Tuesday, Jan 1- Sleighing has at last come in full blast. Mr.A.Brownbridge is still on the sick list; also Mr. B. Brown. A Parlor Club has been organized by the young people of this village. The entertainment given in Brownbridge’s hall, under the auspices of the English church Sabbath school, Dec 28th, was a grand success. An excellent programme was rendered, consisting of readings, recitations, dialogues and an orchestra under the leadership of Mr. Jasper Eaton. Mr. N.H. Beecher presided. Proceeds $23. Tuesday Jan. 8, 1895 issue- Frankville, Friday Jan.4- The youths of our school are to be instructed this year by Miss. Robeson, of Mt. Forest Mr. and Mrs. C.B. Tallman, of Lyndhurst, formerly of this place spent part of last week with their many friends here. Miss. Maggie Running of Athens, spent her holidays at her home here. Mr. and Mrs. J. Mitchell, of Brockville, spent a few weeks here the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Mitchell. Mr. Robt. Soper, who represents the T.Milburn & Co., of Buffalo is renewing old acquaintances here. Mr. C. Dowsley and H.H. Elliott returned to Queen’s college on Monday after spending their holidays with their parents here. Mr. H.K. Webster has placed a street lamp at the rear of his store for the benefit of the public. Another of the oldest landmarks of this place has passed away in the person of Mr. Richard Hanton, sr., who departed this life on Wed., Jan. 2nd at the advanced age of 81 years. The funeral took place at his late residence on Friday at 10:30 a.m. and was conducted by the Rev. Mr. Stevenson, after which the remains were conveyed to the family burying ground. Tuesday Jan. 15, 1895 issue- Kitley Agricultural Society The annual meeting of this society was held at the Edger’s House, Frankville, on Thursday last. N.H. Beecher, chairman; W.D. Livingston, secretary. The treasure’s report read as follows: Receipts from all sources, including balance from last report, $811.56; expenditures, $500.78; leaving a balance on hand of $310.78. The following officers were elected: President, D. Downey; vice president P. Stewart; directors, William Enni, O.L. Munro, Joseph Hanton, William Mitchell, R. Richard, B.F. Stewart, Joseph Jones, Jas. L. Gallanger W. G. Lee; secretary, W.D. Livingston; treasurer, William Eaton. The fair this year is to be held on Thursday and Friday Sept. 26 and 27. Tuesday Jan. 29, 1895 issue- Mr. Wm. Montgomery, Frankville, died on the 21st inst., aged 58 years. Mr. W.D. Livingston of Frankville, the well known apiarist of that locality, had , last spring count, 30 colonies. His increase was 22 full colonies and 1000 lbs of comb and extracted honey. Mr. L. had difficulties to contend with that would have discourages less preserving men in the apiary, but these are about overcome and he will soon reap the reward he so well deserved. His stock is in fine condition at present. Frankville– Friday, Jan. 25- Another of the well known residents of this place has passed away, after a few days illness in the person of Mr. Wm. Montgomery, sr., who departed this life on Monday, 21st inst., at the advanced age of 66 yrs. Mr. Montgomery was an extensive buyer of livestock for the Montreal Market and his dealings have always been of such nature as to gain for him the esteem of those with whom he did business. The obsequies took place on Wednesday to the Presbyterian church, Toledo, where the Rev. J.J. Cameron preached a very appropriate sermon for the occasion from II Timothy 1st chap., 10th verse. The family have the sympathy of the whole community in their sad bereavement. Miss Jennie Broughton has returned home after an absence of two months. Rev. J. Wilson gave a lecture in the Methodist church on Friday, 18th Jan., under the auspices of the Epworth League. Subject: “Electricity.” It was highly appreciated. Our saw mill is running full blast under the management of Mr. Cadwell, of Athens. Tuesday Feb. 12, 1895 issue- At the annual meeting of Farmers’ Friend cheese factory, Frankville, the following officers were selected for 1895: Salesman, Mr. Smith; secretary, W.D. Livingston; treasurer, A.H.Parker; auditors, Jos. Coad, Enos Soper; committee. Wm. Eaton, J.Loucks and Jas. Jones. The milk delivered to the factory last season realized $19.30 Tuesday Feb. 12, 1895 issue- Frankville – Friday, Feb 8- The thermometer registered 28 degrees below zero on Wednesday morning last. Mr. A.H. Parker purchased the Rudd farm for the sum of $2,745. The revival services are being conducted in the Methodist church by the Rev. G.H. Porter. Mr. W.D. Livingston is on the sick list. A number of young people of this place spent an enjoyanle time at the residence of Mr. Wm. Eaton on Tuesday evening last. Mr. D. Dowsley, of Gananoque, is visiting relatives here. The annual milk meeting of Farmers’ Friend cheese factory was held in Brownbridge’s hall on Tuesday evening Jan 29th when the report of the past season was read by sec. Mr. C. Rudd. Milk delivered realized $19.30. The following officers were elected: Salesman, Mr. Smith; secretary, W.D. Livingston; treas, A.H.Parker at a salary of $20 each. Auditors, Jos. Coad, Enos Soper. Mr. Jones was re-engaged as cheese maker for another year. Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue– Benson S. Brown died at his residence near Frankville on Saturday night last. Funeral today (Tuesday) at the Methodist church, Addison under the auspices of the A.O.U.W. Tuesday March 5, 1895 issue– Frankville, Saturday, March 2nd,- Election is the order of the day. Mr. Charles Cross is confined to his home with quinsy. Alfred Lyang, of Merrickville, is visiting relatives here The saw logs are coming in at a lively rate. The many friends of Mr. W.D. Livingston will be glad to hear he is gaining slowly and hopes are entertained of his recovery. Mr. Price, tailor, of Toledo, is moving into the village The Rev. Mr. French of Lombardy delivered a missionary address in St. Thomas’ church on Sunday morning to a large congregation. Mr. A.H. Parker, merchant, has sold his entire stock to Mr. Wm. Stratton of Toledo. The Reporter bespeaks a fair share of public patronage for Mr. Sutton. Tuesday March 12, 1895 issue– Last week the Reporter printed labels for the apiary of W.D. Livingston, Frankville and for the maple syrup manufactory of Levi Monroe Addison. These little advertisers do not cost much and greatly enhance the appearance of the cans containing the liquid sweeteners they describe. We have paper specifically suited for the purpose. Send or call and get an estimate for what you require. The name of the producer attached to an article is a guarantee of excellence and always has weight with the buyer. Tuesday March 19, 1895 issue– Frankville, Friday March 15 – Mr. W.D. Livingston is now convalescent. Mr. George Seeley of Brigtown has retired and moved to this vicinity. Mrs. Woods of Morton is quite poorly at her brother’s residence Mr. Wesley Brown. Miss Morrison of Soperton is visiting relatives here. Miss. Ladoma Eaton had the misfortune to fall and sprain her ankle last week. Mr. Price Tailor of Toledo has moved to our village. We regret to announce the serious illness of Master Bruce Ireland Mr. and Mrs. R.N. Parker of Brockville spent last week visiting relatives here. A sugar party will be held at the Rev. G.H. Porter on Friday evening next. Proceeds for church improvements funds. The Foresters had an oyster supper on Monday evening in their lodge room where they spent an enjoyable time. Mr. and Mrs. Fred Ireland left here on Wednesday last for Dakota where they intend making it their future home. Tuesday March 26, 1895 issue– A week ago it was reported that Mr. David Dowsley of Frankville, the well known auctioneer, was dangerously ill. Since that time, we are pleased to say, his malady has taken a favourable turn and he is now in a fair way for recovery. Tuesday April 2, 1895 issue– Frankville – Saturday, March 30- Sugar making has commenced. Our cheese factory opened on Tuesday, 19th, under the management of J. Jones. Mr. and Mrs. L.J. Cornwell of Stratford were te guests of Mr. and Mrs. R. Richads last week. Mr. Harry Boulgar left last week for Gananoque where he has secured a situation on the railroad. Harry has many warm friends here who regret his departure and wish him success in his new situation. The many friends of Mr. David Dowsley will be pleased to learn that he is gaining slowly and hopes are now entertained of his recovery. Form another correspondent. Monday, April 1 – We are cultivating at present a species of the ‘genus hominis.,’ known generally as cranks. Another of our most prominent young men, in the person of Mr. C. Eaton, has ventured into the matrimonial arena, taking unto himself one of Athens’ fair – Miss. L. Niblock. Messrs. C. Leehy, L.Brown, W. Hanton, S. Leehy, A. Rabb and W. Brownbridge with the aid of a rifle, shot gun and two hounds, succeeded in securing three fine specimens of the raccoon. The members of the Parlor Club decided to close their meetings on account of the bad roads and stress of work, and on Tuesday evening, having invited their parents, they all met to partake of oysters and cake. It was needless to ask how any one enjoyed it, as the bright merry faces and pleasant conversation, mingled with joyous laughter, spoke for themselves. Having partaken of the refreshments, the tables were cleared and a programme, prepared by the members, was given as follows, with Mr. Wm. Richards in the chair: Opening selections, orchestra; Speech, chairman; Vocal, ‘Remember you have children of your own;’ Reading , Miss. L. Mitchell ; Selection, orchestra; Reading, Miss. A. Richards; Vocal solo. Mr. F. Eaton; Address, Mr. H. Leehy; Address, M.J. Loucks; Duet, Miss I. Mitchell and Mr. J. Eaton; Chorus, Glee Club. The meetings of the Parlor Club have had a most beneficial effect on the young people, both in intellectual and a social way, and it is hoped that the young people of Frankville will always continue to manifest the same interest in recital and literary work, and may success crown their efforts. Tuesday April 16, 1895 issue– Frankville – Saturday, April 13,- At the closing session of the Frankville Epworth League, Mr. Jos. Jones, the president, was presented with an address and a handsome bamboo table, as a slight token of esteem and a souvenir of his official term. Although the membership of the League is less numerous than last year, owing to the strict enforcement of the law respecting the pledge the interest has been well maintained, with unbroken harmony and increasing spiritual life. The Sabbath evening prayer and praise meetings, under the auspices of the League, will go on as usual during the summer. Friday, April 13,- Mr. H.K. Webster has made an assignment to Mr. Omer Brown of Delta. Miss Birdie Vanlone of Delta, it the guest of her brother, Mr. Wm. Vanlone. Mr. T. Dowsley, we are sorry to report, is very ill with pneumonia. Miss Maud Duc of Silver Brook is the guest of Mrs. H.K. Webster. Mr.H.H. Elliot of Queens College is home for the summer holidays. Miss. Louisa Edgar of Toledo was the guest of the post master on Wednesday last. The public school scholars gave a concert in the school house on Thursday afternoon last. Quite a number of visitors were present and report having an enjoyable time. The Methodist church was nicely decorated for the Easter services. The choir rendered some suitable selections for the occasion. Tuesday April 16, 1895 issue– Trickey – Henderson.- On April 3rd, at the Methodist parsonage, Frankville by the Rev. G.H. Porter, M.A., B.D., Mr. Melvin O. Trickey to Miss Lotitis Jane Henderson, both of County of Leeds Tuesday April 23, 1895 issue Toledo people were greatly excited last week over the disappearances and strange death of Miss Stevenson of Frankville. Tuesday June 18, 1895 issue– Frankville, Saturday, June 15- Rain is much needed in this section The Methodist church is undergoing some necessary repairs Mr. and Mrs. Darius Ireland and Mrs. M. Ireland spent a few days last week visiting Mrs. E.T. Latimer of Lansdowne. Mr. O.L. Munroe has the cellar wall of his house completed. A union social was held at the parsonage on Friday evening last, when a very enjoyable time was spent. The Rev. G.H. Porter, M.A., B.D. preached his farewell sermon on Sunday morning last to a large congregation. The rev. gentleman, during the two years as pastor, has made many warm friends here and many join with us in wishing him success in his new field of labor. A.H. Parker is selling his store now occupied by Mr. B. Crait. Tuesday July 9, 1895 issue Frankville, Saturday July 6 – Farmers are nearly through haying. Miss May McGuire of Brockville is the guest of Miss Josie Brombridge. Mr. Troop of Prescott is visiting friends here A number of young people of this place spent an enjoyable time at the residence of Mr. Sloan Leehy on Friday evening last. A new tin shop is being opened up here. Miss Lucy Easton of Eastons’ Corners and Miss Hattie Easton of Merrickville are visiting friends here. Mr. O.L Munroe has moved his house on the lot in the village, which makes quite an improvement. The trustees of our school intend making some improvements in our school house during the holidays. A baseball team is being organized here. Mr. and Mrs. R. Dowsley are guests of Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Dowsley Rev. Mr. Stevenson, pastor of St. Thomas’ church is at present seriously ill. Tuesday July 16, 1895 issue Frankville – Monday, July 15,- The rain of last week was much needed. Mr. Richard Running is nicely recovering from a serious cut on the hand. Rev. Mr. Stephenson, pastor of the English church, died on Sunday, 7th, and was taken to the Brockville cemetery on Wednesday. Many are preparing to take a trip on the B&W, at the time of the excursion to UnionPark and among the Thousand Islands on Thursday next. Mr. J.C. Eaton has at present the largest class of pupils on the piano and organ of any other teacher in Leeds and county. Mr. Eaton has many excellent selections of his own composing, principally for piano. Mr. A. James filled the pulpit on Sunday, 14th, in the absence of the Rev. Mr. Stilwell, pastor Mr. Ed Moles of Athens was in our village on Sunday last with his bicycle. Our merchants are causing a large excitement. Tuesday July 30, 1895 issue Frankville Saturday, July 27 – Mr. J. Bullis is doing a rushing business in the meat line. Master B. Dowsley of Kingston is visiting his grandfather, Mr. D. Dowsley The trustees of our school have engaged the service of Miss Barnett of Robison’s Mills to teach our school the remainder of the year. The Rev. Mr. Stillwell, who has been confined to his house for the past two weeks, is now convalescent. The trustees of our school are having some improvements made on our school house during the holidays. Messrs. VanLoon & Hanton have the contracts, for the sum of $280.00. A good ball match took place here on Saturday evening last between the Lombards and the house team. Mr. J.Loucks of Picton is home spending his vacation. Mr. D. Dowsley was in Brockville last week and received a large list of special prizes for the fall fair. Tuesday Aug 6, 1895 issue Frankville– Aug. 1 – Our new tinsmith is doing a good business Mr.Roland Downey is camping on Delta Lake. Miss Flossie Edgers has returned home from a very enjoyable visit amongst friends All of the people in this vicinity are looking forward to the two great fairs of this district, Unionville and Frankville. The full description of the special attractions to be seen only at Unionville fair, which appeared in last week’s Reporter, were eagerly read by our citizens. Nearly every one exclaiming, “I’ll be there” Mr. E. Lewis and wife of Carleton Place are the guests of Miss. Lodema Eaton Mr. D.McDonald and Miss Good, Carleton Place, were the guests of Thos. Good at the Brownbridge house last week. Mr. McDougall of Brockville comes to our village frequently of late. ‘Tis said on special business. The choir of the Methodist church here are going to have a social shortly at the residence of Wm. Eaton. Miss Millie Stewart of Frankville is visiting Mrs. A.W. Judson of Glen Elbe Tuesday Aug 13, 1895 issue Mr. D. Dowsley, Frankville, is spending a week at Charleston, and is catching his full share of the fish. Tuesday Sep 10, 1895 issue Frankville, Friday, Sept. 6. – Some necessary improvements are being made in the rectory Dr. Dixon is at present on the sick list. Mr, and Mrs. R. Parker of Brockville are visiting relatives here. Mr. Geo. Holmes, who has been seriously ill for the past two weeks is now convalescing Miss Katie and Blanche Leehy of Brockville are visiting relatives here. Mr. and Mrs. A.H. Parker left on Monday for Toronto exhibition. Farmers are beginning to fill their silos A very happy event took place here on Wednesday evening, the occasion being the marriage of Mr. Alfred Ireland to Miss Minnie Reynolds, eldest daughter of Mr. John Reynolds. The union was performed by the Rev. M.J. Spratt at the R.C. Church, Toledo in the presence of a large number of invited guests. The bride was assisted by Miss Maggie Hanton, while Mr. Wm. Reynolds acted as best man. After the nuptial knot was tied the happy couple and guests repaired to the brides residence where a sumptuous repast had been prepared. All join in wishing them a happy wedded life. Tuesday Oct 8, 1895 issue Frankville, Monday, Oct 7, – Mr. S.J. Stevenson of Ottawa was the guest of Mr. J. Richards last week. Miss Gertie Coad, Brockville, is visiting her many friends in this vicinity. A very quiet wedding took place at Mr. Enos Sopers, on Wednesday last it being the marriage of Miss. Etta to Mr. W.W. Devitt of New York City. After the wedding breakfast the happy couple left for their home in New York. Miss Morrison, Soperton, was the guest of Mr. Enos Soper last week. Miss Devitt of Easton’s Corners and Miss Ida Bates, Elbe Mills, are guests of Miss Cynthia Soper. Mr. Hill Richards is a happy man. It’s a girl. Will Dowsley has returned to Queen’s College, Kingston. Dr. L.M. Dixon is improving in health. We hope to see him around in a short time. Rumor says another wedding is soon to take place. Mr. O.L. Munroe is drilling a well at the rear of his lot Mr. Wm. Dowsley, jr., sad H.H. Elliott, who have been spending the summer at home, returned to Queen’s College, Kingston on Thursday last. Mr. R. Brownbridge, proprietor of the Florida House, has made considerable improvements to his house, adding much to its appearance. Tuesday Nov 12, 1895 issue Frankville, Monday Nov 11, – One or two cases of scarlet fever are reported here. Mr. O.L. Munroe has moved into his new house. Mr. R. Hanton has moved to Athens to reside The special sermon to the Chosen Friends was preached by the Rev. R. Stilwell on Sunday at 2.30 p.m. Mr. W. G. Richards has engaged a fine brick residence with Mr. Lyman Brown for his farm of 100 acres, paying the difference of $2,300. We understand that Messrs. Jones & Robb have purchased the Farmers’ Friend cheese factory from Messrs. Smith & Knapp. Tuesday Dec 10, 1895 issue Frankville, Friday Dec. 6. – Miss Burnett has been re-engaged to teach our school for the coming year. Rev. R. Stilwell is this week conducting a series of revival services at the Leehy appointment. Mr. Lyman Brown has moved to our village. Miss Louisa Crummy, who has been in Dakota for the last two years, is home on a visit to her parents, Mr. and Mrs. R. Crummy. Miss Gerty Gallagher is visiting friends in Brockville The annual milk meeting of Farmers’ Friend Factory was held in Brombridge’s hall on Tuesday evening last, when the report of the season was read by the Sec’y. W.D. Livingston On motion of J. Loucks, seconded by G. Percival, Mr. C.A. Wood took the chair for the evening. Mr.J.Jones was appointed salesman. W.D. Livingston, secretary, and A.H. Parker, treasurer. Mr. John Webster of Brockville was present and made a speech on the manufacture of cheese, also speaking of the high reputation that Farmers’ Friend factory had. He said it stood as high as any in the Brockville district, and hoped it would continue so. Miss Rettier of Napanee is the guest of Miss Laura Mitchell The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts have been taken from this paper referencing Addison for the years 1889, 1894 and 1895 Jan 8, 1889 Miss. Jane Brown, Addison and Mr. Earl, of Young, were married on the 12th inst, at the residence of the bride’s father, amid festivities and pleasure. There was a large company of friends present, and many valuable presents were made. Saturday Jan 26th, 1889- The wedding of Mr.Sterns Knapp, of Plum Hollow, to Miss. Jennie Love of Addison, took place at the residence of the bride’s parents on Wednesday last the 28th inst. About eighty guests were present and the presents were numerous and costly, as well as being in good taste. The happy couple started the wedding trip on Uncle Sam’s side of the line followed by a shower of all the old boots and slippers which could be found in the Addison neighbourhood. May the newly wedded pair be blessed with every happiness Addison Jan 29, 1889 Mrs. Poolab of Pleasant Valley has gone to Ottawa to spend a few weeks with her son, Lewis Mr. Chas. Snider has gone to Michigan to make his fortune. We wish him success. It is rumoured that wedding bells will soon ring in our village. Addison: Mar 12, 1889 – Miss. Theresa Covey of Gananoque is the guest of Mr. Wm. Langdon her brother in law. Mr. William Quinn has leased the blacksmith shop on King Street for another year, Success to Billy. Mr. Ed Davis has secured the services of Mr. Henry Sheridan for the coming year. Mr. C. Stowell has succeeded in placing about twenty tons of ice in the mammoth ice house in his cheese factory for use this coming season. Mrs. Pritchard has gone to Shelborne to visit her friends there. Mr. Omar Arnold, who has been very sick for some time, will, we are glad to say, soon be convalescent. Addison March 9th 1889 Our King St. blacksmith has been and gone and done it, and now Theresa is mistress of the little white house. Mr. Ed McVagh has moved away to prepare for his cheese making this coming season, and Mr. Chas. Hayes has moved into the house vacated by him. Mrs. A.Cole is spending a few days with her friends here. Mr.David Langdon is very sick at his son William’s here. Addison, Saturday March 16th, 1889 Died at the residence of his son William, Mr. David Langdon, at the advanced age of 76 years. Mr. Hirman Clow and lady of Yonge Mills, are the guests of Mr. William Langdon. Senator Roberts has vacated his old residence on Selina St., and is snugly domiciled with our King St. tea merchant, On Tuesday evening, 12th inst., there was held one of the largest, if not the largest, milk meeting ever held in this vicinity. Mayor Derbyshire, of Brockville and Mr. Strong made most eloquent addresses which were very edifying and beneficial. Mr. Gibson of Elbe has moved to our village, having leased the celebrates Hillside Farm from Mr. Walter Lewis. Addison, April 1st, 1889 On Tuesday evening, the 26th, a number of our villagers drove to Frankville to join in celebrating the marriage of Mr. Jackson of Gananoque, to Miss. Theresa Covey. The nuptial ceremony was performed by Rev. Mr. Styles at the residence of her brother and sister, Mr. and Mrs. J.Y.Covey. The groom was ably assisted by Mr. H. Leacock, of Frankville, whilst Miss. Aggie Scott of Addison waited upon the bride. A number of guests were in attendance. The bride was the recipient of a number of handsome and valuable presents, which testified to the high esteem in which she was held by her many friends here. The ceremony being performed at 8:30 pm the happy couple and suits were invited to an adjoining room, where a sumptuous repast awaited, provided by the kind host and hostess. Justice having been done here and usual toasts proposed and responded to, the hall was quickly cleared and all were merry as the marriage bell when the sweet strains of the violin were sounded by Messrs. Leacock and Hannah. The light fantastic was tripped until the wee sma’ hours, except an occasional break for some favourite song. A very enjoyable evening was spent, and all separated for their several homes, well pleased with their evening’s enjoyment, and wishing for a similar meetings ere long. He happy couple are visiting here at her brother’s, Mr. Wm. Langdon, previous to removing to Gananoque. It is needless to add, they have the best wishes of this community for their future happiness. Mrs. Prichard has returned from Shelburne and is now fully prepared to wait upon her many customers. Mr. H.B. Brown, our popular agent for ploughs, harrows, binders, etc., of the east ward, is doing a good business, being energetic and attentive to orders. Henry is always cheerful and ready to deal. Messer’s. R.M. Arnold and E. Wiltse are busily engaged completing our village factory, which will be second to none in Ontario. Mr. Stowell is bound to give big results. Any one desirous of inspecting a first class farm house, with regard to plan of rooms, mode of heating etc., should call on Mr. E Davis and have his wants gratified. Mr. Geo. Pullah has returned from New York. He is looking hale and hearty, especially when wearing that elegant suit of clothes just got from H.S. Moffatt. A vacant shoe shop here now and a good opening. One of Glen Buell’s worthy scribes received an invitation to attend a wedding at a friend’s house a few miles out in the back country. To be sure of getting there in good time preparations were made for an early start, so old Dolly was slicked up and everything put in the finest order possible. Old Dolly being rather high spirited, and his honour being so enamoured with the scenery, he partially forgot the object in pursuit, and wandered off the road altogether. After driving four or five miles our of his way, on making enquiries as to his whereabouts, he was directed by a kind friend Mr. Charles Goff, to the haven he desired to reach, but unfortunately too late to see the nuptial knot tied or to partake of the sumptuous repast provided by the host for the evening. Mr. C. Stowell has got the boiler for his factory on the ground. Sugar making is the order of the day, that is, when the sap runs. Mr. A. Cole of Ogdensburg arrived on the 2 pm train. He intends spending a few days here on very important business. Addison, Monday April 8th 1889 Mrs. Pritchard has moved from King St. and has opened a first class dress making emporium on the corner of King and Selina Sts. Mr. George Jackson leaves here this morning for the great North west where he intends to take up land and farm on a big scale. He is accompanied as far as Carleton Place by his brother in law, Mr. Wm. Langdon, who also intends going out to the North West next spring. Sugar parties are all the go now, but gather up the feathers nice and clean, boys. Mrs. George Patterson presented her husband with a fine girl baby one day last week. George is all smiles now. Anyone wanting choice selections of eggs for setting purposes should call on our King St. fowl fancier, Mr. Wm. Langdon. Birth: On the 8th inst., the wife of Walter Lewis, a son. Addison- Saturday May 11, 1889 Mr. Frank Taplin met with quite an accident yesterday, which might have resulted fatally. As he was trying to capture a colt, it accidentally kicked him, rendering him insensible for some time, At last accounts, he was improving slowly. Our King St. tea merchant has succumbed to high pressure in business and gone railroading for a change. Miss. Koyle of Brockvlle is the guest of Mr. Walter Lewis. Mr. Charles Snider has the misfortune to lose his celebrated Rysdik colt. High feed and indigestion were too much for him. The first consignment of this season’s cheese left here on Thursday. It was pronounced a number 1 article, and was purchased by Mr. D. Derbyshire of Brockville. Mr. H. B. Brown has sold his celebrated Hillside arm to Mr. G.S. Booth, which eaves a good blacksmith stand to lease, second to none in the country. Addison- Saturday June 18, 1889 As Mr. James Barlow and his daughter, Mrs. Levi Church, were returning from the English Church dinner at Athens, one of the lines fell from the old gentleman’s hands, causing the horses to plunge into a deep ditch. Both were thrown from the vehicle, Mr. Barlow receiving serious injuries, which confined him to his bed, and Mrs. Church escaping with a bad cut in the forehead. Mrs. Mowat and family, California, are guests at Mr. W. Lewis’. Mr. E.S. Wiltse and his son are away erecting a house for Mr. A. Cole, Kitley. Mrs. A.A. Davis, Brockville is visiting friends here. Mrs. Demming, Gananoque, and Miss. Poolah, Brockville are visiting Mrs. Poolah, Pleasant Valley. The rain is doing much damage. Some farmers have not finished seeding yet, and some of the fields look like miniature lakes. Saturday June 22nd 1889 The annual lawn social in connection with the Addison circuit of the Methodist Church will take place on Wednesday evening next. This is a very popular fixture and we have no doubt it will be well attended. Both the retiring and incoming pastors will be present. Tuesday July 2nd, 1889 Owing to the juicy conditions of the weather on Wednesday last, the Addison lawn social was postponed to Friday the 5th inst. Addison Saturday July 20- 1889 Farmers have commenced haying in this section and report a very heavy crop. Mr. Ezra Wiltse has been engaged by Mr. Levi Lewis of Newboro, as assistant clerk in his store. Miss. Hester Wiltse is home spending vacation with her friends here. Our King St. tea merchant arrived home on Thursday night last, but owing pressure of business, stayed only a short time. Mr. H. Brown started one of his Maxwell binders on the farm of Malcom Brown, which gave such entire satisfaction to Malcom that he purchased it on the spot. He sold two ore the same day. Mr. Henry Sherden, who has been sick all the season, at last accounts, was no better. Mr. Willam Wiltse and his best girl passed through our village en route to see their friends at Young Mills. We were in error in our item two weeks ago when we stated that Mr. and Mrs. W. Mallory, of Mallorytown, were guests of W. Lewis of this place. We have learned since that Mr. Mallory is a widower and that his companion was one of Mallorytown’s most respectable young ladies. When we knew Mr. Mallory, a few years ago, he was married and having never heard of his wife’s death, se supposed that it was his wife that was with him. We make this correction in justice to the parties concerned. Mr. Ed Stowell of Addison, is making a tour of inspection with the cheese instructor in the Province of Quebec. Ed is determined to know all there is to be known about the cheese industry. Addison- Saturday Dec 14 1889 Miss Jennie Gibson has been engaged to teach our school for the next year. Mr. Joseph Moulto has moved into our village and now occupies the villa vacated by Senator Roberts. Our mayor has consented to remain with us anther year on condition that he be furnished with an assistant on all pubic days. Mr. Edward McVeigh, of West Winchester was in our village this week obtaining his share of the estate of the late Sarah McVeigh. Addison- Saturday, Dec 28 1889 Our Christmas concert for the benefit of our Sunday School proved a success, the receipts amounting to enough to carry our school for the coming year. The solos and recitations were first class in every respect. The lecture delivered by Rev. Mr. Oliver was very interesting and the suggestions thrown out by our worthy divine are worthy of our careful consideration. Mr. A. Cole of Kitley has opened out a cabinet shop at the residence of Mr. Ezra Wiltse, King St. east. Addison Dec 26th, 1889 Barlow’s Cheese Factory- As it has become customary among cheese factories to make a public statement of accounts during the year, I thought I would make the following reports which I hope you will consider worthy of space in your valuable paper. Total amount of milk received at Barlow’s Factory was 720,018 lbs. from which was made 69,586 lbs. of cheese; lbs. of milk to lb cheese 10.47 lbs; average price per lb. cheese 9.47 cents; total amount received for cheese $6589.28; amount of manufacturing $869.76, leaving a net balance of nearly $15.70 per ton to patrons. Signed C.L. McCrady, Secretary. Tuesday Oct 16, 1894 issue- Addison- Saturday Oct 13- Mr. William Gray of Forthton, has the contract of repairing the Grand Central for H.S. Moffatt. Mrs. Walter Lewis of King St., will leave in a few days to spend the winter with her parents in New York State. Mrs. Poulin of Pleasant Valley, has moved to Brockville and Mayor Kelley will occupy the villa for the coming year. The foreman of the Model farm at Mt. Pleasant and his best girl were visiting friends at Slab St. recently. Mrs. Hiram Brown and her daughter Lillian of Michigan are visiting their many friends in this vicinity for a few weeks. It is rumoured that a young gentleman from Deer Park visited the stocking farm last week, and it is said that he got some very fine footwear for winter. Tuesday Oct 30, 1894 issue- Addison, Monday Oct. 29- Mr. Moore and lady of Hamilton, Ontario are the guests of Mr. W.Lewis of King St. It is rumoured that there is to be a change in the dispenser of knowledge in our school next year. We see no reason why there should be a change, as our present teacher is giving first-class satisfaction. Mr. Daniel Livingston and lady, of Hard Island, were visiting friends at Silver Brook for a few days last week. The Rev. Mr. Scanlon of Brockville was canvassing our village in aid of the Stanstead college last week. He met with a hearty response from a few of our most wealthy citizens. Miss. Anna Langdon of Mt. Royal, is recuperating at Silver Brook for a few days. Mr. Fred Bates has engaged as foreman on the Model Farm at Maple Grove for this winter. Mr. John Latham and a lady, of Yonge Mills, spent a few pleasant days with friends at Mt. Pleasant last week. Foreman Hull has severed his connection with the Model farm at Mt. Pleasant for the present, but will resume his former position in the spring if all is well. Mr. Ezra Wiltse , of King St, is engaged erecting a very commodious building for Mr. A. Cole of Kitley, this week . Ezra is a hustler, and makes things ‘git’ sometimes. Nov 18, 1894 issue- Addison, Saturday Nov.10- Mr. Robert Barlow of Glossville has leased his farm to a very extensive farmer of Kitley and will live a retired life for a few years to come. Dr. Brown of Mt. Pleasant has disposed of his celebrated bay, Boston, to Mr. Richard Cardiff of Glossville who intends fitting it up for spring races. Messrs. Henry and William Knox have returned home after spending a few days with friends at Inkerman and vicinity. Messrs. Hyde and Co. have been engaged for some days constructing a water course across King st., which will drain all the water on the north side of Selina st. It was badly needed. Mr.George Langdon of Mt. Royal, has been on the sick list for a few days. We hope it will not prove serious. Quite a number of our local sports attended the fair at North Augusta on the 2nd inst. And did considerable business. Jabes was on hand and did some big swapping as usual. Mr. William Peterson of Rocksprings has leased the residence on King st. from Mr. Frank Eiltse, of Silver Brook. We extend a hearty welcome. Miss. Adda Sexton has engaged to teach Toledo school for the coming year. Tuesday Nov 20, 1894 issue- (date show is the date on the paper, not the correct date) Addison, Saturday Nov. 24- Foreman Hull has severed his connection with our King St. farmer and Mr. George Evans has been engaged to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Wellinngton Lewis, who has been seriously ill for some time, is slowly recovering. Mr. Fred Bates has said good bye to his many friends in this section and will recuperate in the balmy breezes of York state for the future. Mrs.[sic] William Peterson has been engaged as foreman at Maple Grove for the present. Mr. Benson Empy has been engaged to instruct the youths of our school for the coming year. Addison, Saturday Nov. 24- Wedding bells have again pealed forth their melodies in our midst’s, it being the marriage of Mr. John Best, of Glossville to Hanna, daughter of Mr. James Brown of the same place on the 21st inst. The ceremony was performed by the Rev. Mr. Knox in the presence of about 100 invited guests, after which all partook of a sumptuous repast provided for the occasion. The presents were costly and numerous, showing the very high esteem in which the young couple were held in the community. The orchestra from Addison and vicinity assembled about 10:45 o’clock and discoursed some excellent music. The bride and groom left on the 2 p.m. train for Ottawa on a short honeymoon trip, taking with them the best wishes of all that theirs may be a long and happy life. The Athens Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Tuesday Jan. 1, 1895 issue- The entertainment which took place on Wednesday, Dec 19th, was a grand success. The children who took part in it showed that their instructors, Mrs. Forth and Miss. Clow, did their utmost to make entertainment as pleasing and interesting as possible. The recitations by Misses Towriss, Henderson, Orton and Whaley, and Mesrs. Lynn and Stewart were given in their usual good style and gave evidence that there is no lack of talent in that direction here. The musical part played no small share towards making the entertainment a success. We beg leave to thank the Addison orchestra for the choice selections rendered by them. The instrumental music furnished by Master Allen Lapointe showed marked ability and as time advances we hope to see him one of the shinning lights in the musical world. The Christmas tree fairly groaned under its weight of presents for the children. After receiving these a treat of nuts and candies was given them, and all went home feeling happy. Before closing we must not forget to thank genial John Yates for the very able manner in which he filled the chair. Tuesday Jan. 8, 1895 issue- Rev. Wm. Knox of Addison is the possessor of a monster bald eagle; its wings outspread measuring over eight feet from tip to tip. Addison- Saturday Jan. 5- Mr. Peter Baker of Cornwall, is spending a few days with friends in Glossville and vicinity. The village carpenter, of Slab st., has resumed his studies at the corner school house for another year. We wish him success. It is rumoured that wedding bells will soon ring at Silver Brook. We extend congratulations. R.H. Field and lady, of King st. were visiting friends at Mallorytown this week. It is rumoured that a prominent citizen of Silver Brook is about to unite with the Loyal Orange Lodge of this place. Mr. William Langdon and lady. of Lyn, spent New Year’s with friends in the village. (Addison) It is just whispered that one of our King st. gents is about to take a life partner in the near future. We regret to learn of the death of Mrs. Robt. Barlow of Addison which occurred on Tuesday evening, 8th inst.. Funeral on Thursday at 10 a.m. from family residence to Christ church, Athens. Mrs. Barlow was a sister of Ralph Davis, Brockville; Wm. Davis, Frankville; and Edward Davis, Addison. She has been a great sufferer for several years and death came as a welcome release from pain. The family have the sympathy of the community in their sad bereavement. On Sunday evening, George Stewart, aged 19 years, only son of Mr. Hiram Stewart, died at his home in Addison after a brief illness. On Christmas day he joined a skating party at Greenbush and contracted a severe cold, which despite the best of medical care, terminated fatally. The funeral takes place to-day at 10 a.m. Tuesday Jan. 15, 1895 issue- One of the largest funeral processions that ever entered Athens was on Thursday of Mrs. Rob’t Barlow, whose death at Addison was chronicled last week. Nearly ninety cutters filled with friends and neighbors were in line. Service was conducted at Christ Church. Tuesday Jan. 22, 1895 issue- Addison, Monday, Jan 20.- The Rev. Mr. Klyne is conducting revival service in our church this week and we hope much good may be accomplished. The proprietor of the Model farm at Mt. Pleasant has been engaged for the past week hauling wood from his timber limit at Glen Buell. Miss. Field, of Mallorytown, is the guest of Mr. R. H. Field. King st. east Mrs. Argue of Ottawa is visiting at the parsonage for a few weeks. Mr. Ezra Wiltse and Miss Viola Wiltse of King st. east were visiting friends at Jasper on Sunday last Mr. Joseph Moulton is engaged as foreman with Mr. William Woof for the rest of the winter. Mr. Charles Hayes has severed his connection with the Model farm at Maple Grove and has taken a residence in Lyn. He will be missed very much as he was a general favourite with all. We wish him and his family success in their new home. Tuesday Feb. 5, 1895 issue- Addison, Saturday Feb.3 The 3rd quarterly meeting for the year was held in our church on Sabbath last. The Rev. Mr. Knox delivered a very impressive address to a large congregation and administered the sacrament to about 100 communicants. The juvenile instructor of Slab st., is having the best success with her pupils as far as can be ascertained. Owing to unavoidable circumstances that little machine agent has failed to connect, but if there is anything very important transpires in the quire little burg we would be very happy to hear it. Mr. Burton Smith and lady of Fairfield attended quarterly service in our village on Sunday last. Mrs. H.B. Brown has been on the sick list for a few days, but under the skilful treatment of Dr. Stanley is recovering. Mr. Noah Gifford and lady of Soperton paid our village a visit on Saturday last. The Rev. Mr. Klynes will continue revival services for a few weeks. Success has crowned his labours and still the good work goes on. Messrs. Kelly and Strong have succeeded in storing about 100 tons of ice for use in Palace factory, the trade of which, promises to be larger than ever before. Tuesday Feb. 19, 1895 issue- Addison, Monday, Feb 18- The many friends of Mrs. George Empy will be glad to hear that she is slightly better and hopes are entertained of her recovery. Mrs. A. Church of Mt. Pleasant was taken suddenly ill on Saturday last. Dr, Bourns of Frankville, was summoned and at last accounts she was slowly recovering. Mr. Hiram Langdon and lady, of Carleton Place, are visiting friends in this vicinity for a few weeks. Mr. Geo. Clow of Yonge Mills, was the guest of Mayor Langdon of Mt. Royal on Sunday last. Mr. C. Stowel, of Maple Grove, is slightly indisposed. We hope it will not prove serious. Miss Maud Ducolon, of Silver Brook, visiting friends in Frankville and vicinity for a few days last week. It is rumoured that one of our King st. gents has a slight hankering after one of the leading belles of Jasper. Go it while your young – a faint heart never wins a fair lady. The revival services have closed in our village for the present, the Rev. Mr. Klyne goes to Slab st. for the present. Goodness knows, he is badly needed in that section, and we wish his labours may prove of benefit to many. Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue- Addison, Monday, Feb 25- Again it is our sad duty to chronicle the sudden demise of one of our most highly respected residents of Mt. Pleasant in the person of Mrs. A. Church, who took ill on the 16th inst. The best of medical skill was summoned and all that kind friends could do was done, but to no avail. Death came as a release from pain and suffering in the short space of only four days. She was a kind and devoted wife to her husband and a loving mother to her six little children that are left to morn her loss. She always had a kind word and cheerful greeting for every one, under all circumstances, and few there are in this section that had more friends. She leaves to mourn her loss a husband and six little children, four sons and two daughters, one brother and sister, and a kind father and mother. The funeral service was performed by the Rev. Mr. Knox in our church, after the remains were conveyed to the family cemetery in Athens. The bereaved friends and family have the heartfelt sympathy of all in this their hour of sorrow and trouble, knowing that it will be a happy transition from a world of suffering and pain to a home with her blessed Saviour in the realms of eternal glory. Dearest Phoeba, thou hast left us, Here thy loss we deeply feel, But ‘tis God that has bereft us, He can all our sorrows heal. But in heaven we hope to meet thee, When the trials of life are o’er, And to clasp thee to our bosom, There to dwell for evermore. Master Harry Church is very sick at present, caused by blood poison, and little hopes are entertained of his recovery. Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue- Mrs. Martha Duclon, relic of the late Peter Duelon of Addison died at the residence of her son-in-law, Joseph Miller, Elizabethtown, on Saturday evening last Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue- Mrs. John Patterson of Greenbush and Lorren N. Brown, Addison and their families are among the latest additions to Athens’ population. Tuesday Feb. 26, 1895 issue- Marriage- Johnston- Robertson- On Feb 20 at the Methodist parsonage, Addison by Rev.W. Knox, assisted by Rev. Mr. Gomery of Montreal. Mr. W.J. Johnston of Yonge, to Miss. A. McMillen Robertson, daughter of Mr. James Robertson of Scotland. Tuesday March 5, 1895 issue- Addison- Monday, March 4 – Mr. Edward Gray has returned home after spending a few days with friends in Gananoque and vicinity. Among the arrivals on Saturday evening express was our old friend Uncle Daniel, who will recuperate at Mt. Royal for a few days. Miss. Viola Wiltse is visiting friends in Kingston for a few weeks. Mrs. William Cross and grand daughters Ellie and Mabel Cross were visiting at the residence of Mr. Ezra Wiltse, King st., this week. Uncle Chauncy is able to resume his position as foreman. He says it takes more than a broken limb to interfere with his business. Mr. George Marshall was taken very ill on Saturday last. We hope it will not prove serious. Mr. R.M. Arnold of Selina st., received the contract of fitting up the emporium for the P.I.’s at Mt. Pleasant, his being the lowest tender. On Friday last, Emms, second daughter of Mr. W. Miller of Mt. Royal, fell from the loft in his barn. Her head came in contact with some machinery cutting it in several places and fracturing the skull. Dr. Stanley was called and dressed it, removing several pieces of the bone. She is in a very critical condition at present. Again we are reminded of our mortality by the removal of one of the oldest citizens on Slab street in the person of Martha, relict of the late Peter Dacolon. Diseased was in the 85th year of her age and had been an invalid for the last nine years. She bore her long illness with Christian patience and never was heard to murmur or complain. She leaves one son and four daughters to mourn her loss. The funeral services were performed in our church by the Rev. Mr. Know after which the remains were conveyed to the family cemetery at Athens. The bereaved friends have the sympathy of all in this their hour of sorrow and bereavement. Tuesday March 5, 1895 issue- Concert at Addison Throughout the whole of Ontario the Ladies’ Aid as a society has cast its influence, devoting the time and talent of its members to better the social and financial conditions of the church. It is only necessary for us to know that a concert and dinner is given by a Ladies’ Aid when we at once conclude that the proceeds are for some good and useful purpose. The Ladies’ Aid of Addison gave an entertainment in the school house on Friday evening and although the roads were in a bad condition, a good crowd assembled to pass an enjoyable hour. About 8 o’clock the president of the society, Mrs. Stowell, took the chair and proceeded with a lengthy programme. An orchestra consisting of the boys of Addison and also of Athens orchestra entertained the audience while the curtains were down and the managers preparing for the next scene. The first selection was by Mrs. Byron Loverin entitled “Carl the Martyr” It was a lengthy recitation but the ability and naturalness the reciter held the eager attention of the large crowd until the closing when she received hearty and prolonged applause. Mr. Crawford, disguised as a ??? represented “Mayor ??” at the World’s fair, paying $2. a day for his board with the additional ??? of a “Donkey” to drink his wine and bed bugs as large as squirrels. Mr. Crawf [sic] Slack, of Athens gave some of his comic songs in a popular style as to receive an encore after every appearance. The moments sped swiftly as they generally do when people are happy, and before the programme was finished the clock had chimed eleven. All were apparently satisfied with their entertainment and dispersed to their several homes leaving about $30. in the hands of the “Aid”. Tuesday March 12, 1895 issue- Last week the Reporter printed labels for the apiary of W.D. Livingston, Frankville and for the maple syrup manufactory of Levi Monroe Addison. These little advertisers do not cost much and greatly enhance the appearance of the cans containing the liquid sweeteners they describe. We have paper specifically suited for the purpose. Send or call and get an estimate for what you require. The name of the producer attached to an article is a guarantee of excellence and always has weight with the buyer. Tuesday March 19, 1895 issue- The Addison Concert An occasional correspondent having given the Reporter only a brief account of the Addison concert, another correspondent sends the following: The concert given in Addison by the young people of that place on the evening of Friday, March 1st, was a decided success. Although the evening was not a favourable one the school house was well filled with an appreciative audience. In the enforced absence of Dr. Bourns of Frankville the chair was taken by Mrs. Ed. Stowell who, with marked ability disposed of a lengthy programme consisting of choruses, recitations, dialogues, songs, quartets, trio and a charade. The recitations given by Miss. Towriss of Glen Buell, Miss Clara Arnold, Miss Minnie Duclon and Mrs. Byron Loverin were well received, that of Miss Towriss being especially pleasing and though it was her first appearance among the people of Addison we can assure her of a hearty reception should she again favour them. Mr. Byron Haskin of Greenbush very creditably assisted in the singing and other parts of the programme. Mr. Slack of Athens received hearty encores after each of his selections. A good orchestra consisting of members from Athens and Addison gave abundance of music. The dialogues were of a harmonious style and kept the audience convulsed with laughter. We can assure the people of Addison of a full house should they give another concert. Addison, Saturday, March 16- Mr. Wilbert Mallory and lady of Mallorytown were visiting friends in this vicinity for a few days last week. Mr. Fred Taplin has arrived home from New York and is taking a course in the Business College in Brockville for the present. The proprietor of the Model at Mt. Pleasant has purchased the celebrated trotting mare, Black Diamond from Mr. A. Church, for the exorbitant sum of four hundred. He intends fitting her up for the turf and will make it hot for the boys this summer. Mr. Franklin Wiltse and son of Silver Brook, champion sawers of this section, cut nearly 100 cords of stove wood in one day recently for Mr. Selah Hawks of Glossville. Any one wanting wood cut on short notice should give them a call. Our little machine agent is doing a rushing business this spring, as every one far and near finds it to their advantage to deal with him, as he handles none but first-class goods and is always open for a trade. He will take a quantity of first class syrup in deal if customers prefer. There is not a snipe in five miles around that will need a cathartic this summer if the author of that beautiful poetic illusion will take the trouble to read it to them by the light of the moon. We will be very glad to furnish and information at any time that would help them to pose as a first rate poet, but we are afraid to gorge them with too much at a time for fear their poor dilapidated cranium might explode. Mr. Delbert Patterson, of Jasper, paid our village a short visit last week. Mr. A. Church of Mt. Pleasant has moved to Glossville which leaves a first class blacksmith stand to lease for the present. Mr. Ezra Wiltse, jr., has engaged as foreman with Mr. R.H. Field for this season. Tuesday March 26, 1895 issue- Mr. H.S. Moffatt, Addison is conducting one of his clearing sales. All interested should obtain one of his bills giving quotations. Tuesday April 2, 1895 issue- Addison, Saturday, March 30 – Miss. Viola Wiltse has returned home after spending a few pleasant days with friends in Kingston. Rumor has it that she may become a permanent resident of the Lime stone city in the near future. Mr. Thomas Charlton and his charming young bride passed through our village last week en route to visit his brother George at Mt. Royal. Tommy says any one saying a marriage is a failure is sadly mistaken. Owing to a slight mistake between uncle Chancy and the proprietor of our King st. farmer, the foreman will strike for an advance in his salary this season. Mr. William Hay has been engaged as assistant in our cheese factory this season. We wish him success. Mr. George Evans has bid his many friends in this section good-bye for the present, having engaged as foreman on the Model farm of Mr. Morton Knapp, of Lake Eloida. We congratulate Mr. Knapp on securing so efficient a foreman, as Mr. Evans had a large experience with one of our leading farmers in this vicinity, last season. One of our local sports has purchased the fashionable turn-out from Mr. W. Lewis of King st. Mr. A. McVeigh of Mt. Royal is busily engaged buying deacon skins, for which he pays the highest prices. Among the numerous arrivals at the Florida House last week we noticed our old friend Mr. John O’Connor. Tuesday April 16, 1895 issue- Addison, Saturday, April 13 – Mr. H.S. Moffatt is shipping 500 gallons of syrup out north, for which he pays the highest price of any buyer in this section. Mr. A. Davis and family of Brockville spent a few days in our village, the guest of R.H. Field, King st. Mr. David Wiltse has been engaged as foreman in our butter factory for a few weeks. The Dominion Government wants some choice samples just now, and David is just the boy can do it. Mr. John O’Connor paid our village a short call recently on some very important business. John is a hustler and we hope he will succeed all right. Mr. Robert Dixie of East Saginaw has leased the Prospect cottage at Mt. Pleasant and will assist Professor Blanchard to superintend the Model farm for this season, which will give the proprietor more time to devote to his other business. With a little development, he will eclipse any of our local sports, as Black Diamond is sure to win every time. Mr. Fred Blanchard is spending the Easter holidays with friends on King st. For the benefit of the church fund, the toe [sic] social at Mt. Royal last week was largely attended by the leading aristocrats of our village. They report a pleasant time. Glorious church work ! – first a resurrection concert, then a toe [sic] social, and the Lord knows what won’t come next. We wish them success. Tuesday April 30, 1895 issue- Addison- April 27- Mr. David Wiltse has engaged with Mr. George Barnes of Athens as cheese maker in the factory at Portland. We wish him success. Mr. Wellington Lewis of King st. has been on the sick list for a few days. We hope it will not prove serious. Uncle Chancy, foreman for our King st. farmer, has bid good bye to his many friends in this section, having secured a position in a very extensive ranch in Michigan. We hope he ma succeed in his new home. Mr. Robert Dixie and lady are snugly domiciled at Mt. Pleasant where they will reside for this season. They will be happy to entertain any of their old friends who may call. We are very sorry your Elbe correspondent made a slight mistake in informing the public that our little machine agent had cancelled his engagement at Slab st., as it is not so; he never fails to connect and gets there every time. We hope the Elbe correspondent will be a little more careful in the future, as it might prove serious. Mr. A. McVeigh of Mt. Royal has leased the Baker estate and will farm it quite extensively this season. We wish him success. Alfred Pepper moved to Jellyby, having leased Orchard Valley cheese factory for this season. The many friends of Mr. Thomas Brown, a former resident of this section, are very sorry to hear of his illness and hope he will soon recover. Mr. A. Cole and lady of Kingston is about to ocate to this section We extend a hearty welcome. Tuesday May 21, 1895 issue- Addison Orangemen are arranging for an excursion over the B&W to Newboro on Dominion Day Addison School House – The appearance of our school yard has been much improved by the levelling and planting of more trees. Also the windows of the house are adorned with nice plants, all of which will have a beneficial part in the education of the pupils in attendance. We regret to have to announce the death of Mrs. Alex. Blanchard who passed quietly away on the evening of Saturday the eleventh inst., at the residence of her son-in-law, Mr, Wm. Connell. Deceased was in the 59th year of her age and was much beloved by all who knew her. The funeral services, which were well attended, took place at the Quaker church, Athens. The bereaved family has the sympathy of the entire community. Mrs. Howard McGrath of New York arrived last Wednesday on a visit to her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Dixon. Tuesday June 11, 1895 issue- Addison- Monday, June 10 – Road work is the order of the day in this section right now. Mayor Langdon of Mt. Royal has been engaged for some time erecting quite an extensive addition to his family residence which, when finished, will add greatly to its appearance. The mayor is a hustler and never leaves anything half done. Mr. E. Wiltse of King St. has the contract. The editor of the Newboro Standard registered at the Florida house last week. Mr. Omer Arnold is so far recovered as to be able to go out driving occasionally. It is rumoured that one of our King st. gents allied himself with the United Workmen while in Ottawa recently. We wish him every success. Mr. C. Hawks & Co. have struck a bonanza in the manufacture of a composition for the destruction of the Texan fly, as it is a sure thing every time, and everybody should but it. Mr. A. Cole and lady of Kitley were guests of Mr. Ezra Wiltse, King st. east on Sunday last. Quite a number of our local sports intend going to Westport on Dominion day. Tuesday June 18, 1895 issue- The Ladies’ Aid of Addison will hold a strawberry festival on the lawn of Mr. E. Stowell on the evening of Thursday June 27th. Athens brass band will be in attendance. Toledo and Addison football teams will play a final game in a field opposite the lawns at 6p.m. Ice-cream sold on the grounds. A grand time is expected. Tuesday June 25, 1895 issue- Remember the lawn social at Mr. Ed Stowell’s, Addison, on Thursday evening next. Addison and Toledo football teams play a final game and Athens brass band will be present. Tuesday July 2, 1895 issue Greenbush- Saturday, June 29 – The strawberry festival last Thursday evening on the lawn at Mr. Ed Stowell’s, under the auspices of the Ladies’ Aid Society of Addison, was a decided success. The evening was fine, the lawn was nicely illuminated, while the shower of the previous day had gladdened the hearts of the people; the Athens Citizens’ band furnished abundance of choice music, and everything seemed conductive to merriment and good cheer. The grocery on the grounds was under the able management of Mr. Byron Loverin and yielded a good profit. Misses Maud Taplin and Lizzie Kelly helped to swell the financial profit of the evening by selling home made candy and bouquets. Tuesday July 9, 1895 issue Addison, Saturday, July 8 – The farmers in this section are mostly through haying and report the highest crop for many years. Several of our local sports took in the excursion to Westport on Dominion day and seemed very much pleased with their trip. Mayor Langdon of Mt. Royal assisted at the Model farm at Mt. Pleasant for a few days last week. It is rumoured that Mr. George Horton, a very extensive farmer of Kitley, has a slight hankering after one of the leading belles of Silver Brook. Go it, George, a faint heart never wins a fair lady. Mrs. Langtry and two sons of Carleton Place are visiting friends in this vicinity for a few weeks. Dr. Brown and Mr. R. Dixie have the contract of securing the hay crop on the experimental farm at Mt. Pleasant. We wish them every success. Quite a number of the leading citizens of Silver Brook attended the celebration at Ogdensburg on the 4th. The village carpenter of Slab st. has resumed his studies at the little yellow school house, and has promised to be more diligent in the future. The social given at Maple Grove by the Ladies’ Aid was a grand success, realizing about $50, but the trouble is now they do not know what to do with the money. Again it is our sad duty to chronicle the sudden demise of one of the most promising citizens of our vicinity in the person of Miss. Mabel, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Ormond Moore, in the 14th year of her age , with that flattering disease, consumption. Deceased was beloved and admired by all who knew her. The funeral service was preformed in our church by the Rev. Mr. Hagar of Athens, after which the remains were conveyed to the family cemetery at New Dublin. The parents and friends have the utmost sympathy of all in this their hour of sorrow and affliction. Tuesday July 16, 1895 issue Addison Monday, July 15,- The parsonage here is being repaired and painted, and when done will present a pleasing appearance. Miss Ray Boyde of Athens returned home last Saturday. Mr. and Mrs. O.P. Arnold intend starting on a visit tomorrow, to the Rev. W. Rilance of Cardinal Miss E. Bissell is attending the sick bed of her aunt, near Ottawa Messers. W. Gibson and W. Hay went to Ottawa on the 12th Mrs. C.F. Gray who has been on the sick list for some time past, is slowly recovering under the skilful treatment of Drs. Dixon and Bourns. On Wednesday of last week Mr. Benson Empey bid good-bye to bachelorhood and was married to Miss Sheldon of Chantry. Benson’s many friends here extend congratulations. Miss Jennie Bishop of Oswego, N.Y. is visiting Mr. Jas. Brown’s. The Ladies’ Aid society of this place is doing a good work. The members, only thirteen in number, have raised for church purposes over one hundred dollars in the last five months. The small auxiliary of the W.F.M.S. was last week presented with the annual donation of $10 from Mr. Robt. Connel of Greenbush. Mr. Connel is a great help to the mission cause here and we think there are others who might do likewise. Tuesday Aug 6, 1895 issue Addison, Saturday Aug 3 – Rev. Mr. Pimlot will hold a mammoth camp-meeting at Forthton about the 20th inst. We hope much good may be accomplished. Miss Alma and Cora Langdon of Mt. Royal are visiting friends at Lyn for a few days. Mr. A. Church has disposed of Black Diamond to Mr. William Mulcahy, of Caintown. Look out, boys, you want to get a hustle on now, as she is hard to beat. Mr. Joseph Moulton has returned home, having finished his contract on the Yonge Mill canal. On account of increase in business, Dr. Brown of Mt. Pleasant had to purchase another horse. We wish the Dr. every success. Mayor Langdon, of Mt. Royal, has disposed of this season’s crop on the Experimental Farm at Mt. Pleasant to our little machine agent and |||Mr. R. Dixie has the contract of securing it. Mr. A. Dolan and lady, of Chicago, are visiting friends in this vicinity for a few weeks. Tuesday Aug 20, 1895 issue Miss Jessie Addison met with a serious accident last week. While driving near the toll gate a rig collided with the buggy in which she was seated and the shock threw her violently to the ground. Her shoulder was dislocated and her arm was broken. Tuesday Aug 20, 1895 issue Addison, Saturday, Aug 17 – Mrs. Pritchard has returned home after spending the holidays with friends in Shelburne and vicinity. Mr. Walter Lewis and lady are recuperating at Charleston for a few days. Mr. James Cummings of Lyn passed through our village this week. He made a short call at the residence of Mr.W.Lewis of King st.east Miss Addie Barlow has returned home after spending a few days at Massena Springs. The proprietor of the Model Farm at Mt. Pleasant is sparing neither time nor money to make his herd of trotters the most famous of any in this section, having purchased the celebrated Mayflower from Mr. A.Church at a most fabulous price. Miss Viola Wiltse is visiting friends in Kitley this week. Dr. Brown, of Mt. Pleasant has been quite indisposed for a few days. We hope it will not prove serious. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue Addison, Saturday, Aug 31, – Miss Anna Davis of Plum Hollow was visiting the residence of Mr. Joseph Moulton, King st., for a few days last week. The camp-ground meeting at Forthton has been productive of much good. Many have found pardon and the luke warm professors have been stirred to a sense of the duty they owe to their God and fellow man. We hope the good seed sown may bear fruit to the honor and glory of God, as there is much of it in these parts. Mrs. Prichard and son Clare have returned home after spending the holidays with friends in Shelborne. She has opened her emporium on King St. with all the latest styles and fashions for the season. Mr. Joseph Scott and lady of North Augusta paid our village a short visit recently. Our school has opened for the fall term. Benson wears a broad smile, having captured one of Harlem’s leading belles during the holidays. We wish the happy couple long life and happiness. Mrs. A. Davis and family spent a few days at her parental home last week. Tuesday Oct 1, 1895 issue In passing through this district we were much pleased to notice the improvements that have been carried out in the Methodist church of Addison and Greenbush under the superintendence of the popular and much respected gentleman, Rev., Mr. Pimlott. Tuesday Oct 8, 1895 issue Addison, Saturday, Oct. 5, – Wedding bells will soon ring out at Glossville The village carpenter of Slab st. and his best girl took in the Ottawa fair. Mr. J. Latham and lady of Yonge Mills paid our village a visit last week. Mr. Almeron Blanchard has gone to New York to visit his two sons for a few days. Mrs. Joseph Moulton and Mrs. C. Blanchard took in the Almonte fair last week. Mr. E.S. Wiltse and lady were visiting friends at Fairfield on Friday last. Dr. Brown of Mt. Pleasant exhibited his fancy pair of roadsters at the North Augusta fair on Friday last. They took the prize from all. Miss Alma Langdon of Mt. Royal is visiting friends at Lyn and vicinity for a few weeks. Tuesday Oct 8, 1895 issue On Wednesday last, Mr. Delber Dobbs was united in matrimonial bonds with Miss Annie Scott, daughter of Abel Scott, Esq., of Addison. After a brief trip the happy couple have established their home in Athens. The Reporter extends congratulations and best wishes. Tuesday Oct 15, 1895 issue Addison, Monday Oct. 7, – Mr. James Hall of Glossville met with quite a serious accident last week by getting struck on the hand as he was moving the thresher in the barn, which dislocated his thumb and bruised his hand to quite an extent. Mr. Thomas Whitford is engaged as foreman for the present. Miss Lettie Pimlott has returned home after spending a few days with friends at Picton and vicinity. It is rumoured that one of the leading farmers of Silver Brook has leased the Experimental farm at Mt. Pleasant. Mayor Kelly and H.S. Moffatt attended the fair at Almonte last week and reported a jolly time. Tuesday Oct 15, 1895 issue Mr. A. McDougall of Addison passed through Athens last week with a large herd of fine young beef cattle. Tuesday Oct 22, 1895 issue Addison, Monday, Oct 21. – Mr. A. Blanchard has returned home from New York and reports times are booming in York state. Mrs. James Glazier and son Charles of Fairfield are visiting friends in this vicinity for a few days. Dr. Brown of Mt. Pleasant has been quite indisposed for some time, but it is hoped he will be able to attend the North Augusta fair on the first Friday in November next. Mayor Langdon of Mt. Royal has been engaged for some time repairing his residence, which makes a great improvement in the appearance of his premises. Mr. W. Lewis and lady of Athens were guests of Mr. Walter Lewis of King street on Sunday last. Mrs. James Eagan of Cincinnati were visiting at the residence of Mr. Frank Wiltse of Silver Brook, her brother in law for a few weeks. The proprietor of the Model farm at Mr. Pleasant has disposed of his thoroughbred porkers at a fabulous price and will buy more if they are first class. Mr. John Percival of Forthton has been on the sick list for some days, but at last account was improving. Tuesday Oct 29, 1895 issue Addison, Monday, Oct 28. – Mr. Gordon McKea of Ventnor has engaged as foreman at the Glossville creamery which is now in operation. Death has again entered our village and claimed as its victim one of our oldest citizens in the person of Thankful, relict of the late Peter Brown, in the 89th year of her age. Deceased had been a sufferer for the past two years with a cancer on her face, but she bore it with Christian patience and faith in her Saviour that He doeth all things well. Death came as a relief from pain on Sabbath morning 27th inst. At the residence of Mr. Vincent Wiltse with whom she had resided for a number of years. The funeral service was preformed by the Rev. Mr. Hagar of Athens, after which the remains were conveyed to the family cemetery at Athens. Mr. George Booth of Silver Brook has purchased from our little machine agent one of his celebrated lighting express sulky, plows, and challenges the best they can produce to compete with it. Mr. D. Copeland of Syracuse paid our village a short visit last week. He always brings good cheer and his visits are always welcome. Mr. F.W. McKinnon of Smith’s Falls registered at the Florida House on Saturday last and spent the day in calling on old friends. We extend hi a hearty welcome always. Tuesday Dec 10, 1895 issue Addison – Monday Dec 9 – The Rev. Mr. Grout of Lyn, delivered a very eloquent discourse in Ashwood Hall on Sabbath evening last, which was highly appreciated by all present. Mr. Thomas and Elwood Gibson have returned home and will spend the winter in our village. On the evening of the 20th inst. There well be held in Ashwood Hall a Christian entertainment in aid of the English church Sunday school to which all are certainly invited Mrs. Oliver Bishop of Oswego is visiting friends in Glossville and vicinity for a few weeks. Among the numerous arrivals at the Florida house last week, we noticed our old friend Mr. John O’Connor. Miss Evelina Pepper is very sick at present and little hopes are entertained for her recovery. The Rev. Mr. Pimlott held revival service in our church last week, but owing to other business it is postponed for the present. Mayor Kelly is engaged building a very commodious carriage barn which when completed, will surpass anything of the kind in the village. The proprietor of the Model Farm at Mt. Pleasant has been engaged for some time repairing the interior of his fine residence. Mr. R.M. Arnold of Sellina st. had the contract, which is sufficient guarantee that it was well done. There will be held in our church on Christmas eve a Sunday school entertainment, to which all are invited. Tuesday Dec 18, 1895 issue Addison, Tuesday Dec. 17. – We are sorry to announce the serious illness of Mrs. Geo. Langdon, but at latest report she was some better. Mr. Ezra Wiltse, jr., who cut is foot one day last week, is again able to attend business. Palace Creamery is doing a good business yet. The output is about 1000 lbs of butter per week. The Addison Council No. 156 C.O.C.F., who attended divine service in Frankville recently, wish to tender the choir and pastor (Rev. Mr. Stilwell) of the Methodist church a vote of thanks for their services. This Council is making rapid strides in its membership and is the leading society of the place. Mr. Wellington Lewis is quite smart this winter, more so than during the past six months, which no doubt many of his old acquaintances, will be pleased to hear. From the pages of The Athen’s Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser, Tuesday Aug 20, 1895 issue we have learned a bit about the annual Fair held in Frankville. Unlike the fair held at Unionville, it appears to be a smaller county fair. The list of prizes and judging catagories gives us some idea into what the fair was like. If you read further down this page after the list of prizes, The Athen’s Reporter of Oct 1st, 1895 gives an account of a day at the fair. The officers of the Frankville Fair Association, recognizing the fact that the cash and special prises that have been so freely given by he businessmen of the surrounding towns and villages have been of great help in bringing our fair up to its high standard as a Township Show, desire to once more take this opportunity of returning thanks to all those that have contributed so generously to the success of our fair. John F. Wood, M.P., Brockville Cash $20.00 Walter Beatty, M.P.P., Delta “ $10.00 Montreal Bank, Brockville Branch “ $10.00 Toronto Bank, Brockville “ “ $10.00 Molson’s Bank, Brockville “ “ $10.00 Molson’s Bank, Smith’s Falls, “ “ $10.00 Union Bank of Canada, Smith’s Falls “ $10.00 Jas. Cummings, Lyn “ $ 5.00 W.A.Edgers, Frankville “ $ 5.00 R.Brownbridge, Frankville “ $ 5.00 D.Derbyshire, Brockville “ $ 5.00 R.Bowie, Brockville “ $ 5.00 W.H.Comstock, Brockville “ $ 5.00 Pair General Purpose Horses The James Smart Manufacturing Company, Brockville, One Dandy Perfection coal stove, value $6.00, to first. William Johnston, Dealer in Dairy Produce, Brockville, One bag of sale, value $1.25 to second. Pair Carriage Horses Central Canada Coal Company (limited) Brockville. James Reynolds Secretary. When in want of any kind of coal, call on us before purchasing elsewhere. One ton of coal in yard, value $5.00 to first. John Briggs & Sons, Sash & Door Factory, Brockville- Goods to the value of $1.50 to second. Pair of Roadsters Cossitt Bros, Agricultural Instruments, Brockville-One set mowing maching knives, value $3.50 to first. D.Allport, Proprietor Smith’s Falls Woolen Mill.- One piece of flannel, value $1.25 to second. Pair Carriage Horses Sixteen Hands, to be Driven by a Lady J,R.McNish, General Produce Merchant, Brockville, Cash $4.00, to first WR.Gardiner, Manager Edged Tool Works, Brockville, One axe and helve [sic], value $1.50 to second. Single Driver, to be driven by owner’s wife or daughter R.W.Steacy, jeweller, Smith’s Falls, Piece of silver ware, value $3.00 to first D.W. Downey, Boot & Shoe Store, Brockville – One pair of Ladies’ boots, valu $1.50 to second Single Roadster A.S. Ault & Co, coal merchants, Brockville. Farmers and blacksmiths will find it to their own advantage to call on us when in town for either stove or blacksmith coal. Stove coal was sell for $5.00 per ton in our yard., Office, Kings st. east.- Ten lengths 4 inch sewer pipe, value $3.00 to first G.A.Rudd, manufacturer of Harness, buggy tops, &c. -\One whip, value $1.50 to second. Three Year Old Colt in Harness William Gilroy & Co., general merchants, Smith’s Falls- One carriage rug, value $1.75 to first Copy of the Brockville Times to the second, value $1.00 Bicycle Race, Ladies E.J.Scott, jeweller, Smith’s Falls- Ladies’ Ring, value $4.00 to first R.Davis & Sons, merchants, Brockville – One Silk handkerchief, value $1.00 to second Cow showing most milking points Smith & Knapp. Cash $5,.00 – $3.00 to first and $2.00 to second, Competition open to Patrons of Barlow’s and Frankville cheese factories only. Collection of Oil Paintings R.H.Smart, hardware merchant- Carpet-sweeper, value $2.50 to first Allen Turner & Co., druggists, Brockville – Selection of tube colors and brushes, value $1.25 to second. Collection of Crayon Drawings W.Johnston, druggist, Smith’s Falls- Fancy case, value $1.50 to first Copy of Weekly Times to second Collection of Water Colors A.H. Swarts, furniture dealer and undertaker, Brockville. Call and see my stock and you will be surprised at the wonderful low prices. –One bamboo table, value $1.50 to first; Copy of Brockville Times, value $1.00 to second Colony of Working Bees Cossitt Bros. Ag’l Implements Mfg., Brockville- One set mowing machie knives, value $3.50 to first William Martin, general agent Massey Harris Mfg. Co., Brockville – Cash $2.00 to second. Display of Honey Agricultural Society – $4.00 to first Alex. McCrady & Son’s Brockville – Pair Driving mitts, value $3.00 to second Twenty Pound Crock of Butter The Rathbum Co., dealers in lumber, sash, doors and factory goods, coal, all sizes, best quality and at lowest prices; also bran, shorts, Flour and feed – 100 lbs, Diadem flour, value $2.50 to first Collection of Fruit John Culbert, Rock Bottom Grocery, Brockville- Caddy tea value $2.00 to first, copy of the Weekly Recorder to second Two Colored Cheeses D.Derbyshire, produce dealer, Brockville- Cash $5.00-$3.00 to first and $2.00 to second Two White Cheese W.J.Cluff, dealer in cheese factory supplies, dairy products and general insurance agents, Brockville- Cash $2.00 to first T.Gilmour & Co., wholesale grocers, Brockville- One caddy tea, value $2.00 to second Display of Fancy Work R. Hawkins, Tinsmith, eavetroughing and dealer in Stoves and Cooking Ranges – A Bird Cage value $1.25 Artificial Paper Flowers Charles C. Lyman & Co., dry goods merchants, Brockville- Oil cloth floor mat, value $1.00 Best Looking Young Lady William Coates & Son, practical opticians, Brockville – One silver necklace $1.00, prize winner to call for prize Best Matched Pair of Cows E.G. Dobbie, hardware merchant Brockville- Set knives and forks, value $1.50 Mantle Drape C.M. Babcock, staple and dry goods Merchant, Brockville – One umbrella, value $1.00 The Athen’s Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Tuesday Oct 1, 1895 issue Frankville’s Big Exhibition The Exhibition Went on “Lively all the While” – The people were there in Thousands and Everybody had a Great Big Time, – Thursday morning opened up pretty glum and gloomy for the managers of Dave Dowsley’s big show, but about noon the clouds brook away, the sun showed its face for the rest of the day and the exhibitors made a big rush and push to exceed all the township and many other county fairs in Eastern Ontario. The show of horses was pronounced by competent judges to be the largest and best of all the fairs in this section, and while the Reporter is not an expert in horse lore, we must coincide with the universal verdict. Cattle, sheep, and swine were shown in large quantities and were a marked improvement on all former exhibits in breeding…… (page ripped and part of this story is missing)…..and quantity of root crop, and we have attended nearly every exhibition of the Frankville fair and have no hesitation in saying that the display was the best ever seen there. We would, however, suggest to the managers that if more care were exercised in placing each class or variety of exhibits together and putting a couple of windows more in front end of Main hall it would add very materially to the convenience of visitors who wish to thoroughly inspect the various exhibits. Outside on the grounds, the last afternoon, the fun was fast and furious. The trials of speed drew a large crowd to the side of the track. The Merry-go-Round did not get into running order until late in the afternoon of the last day, but from that until the close every space was occupied. The musical wonder was there also and drew a fair sized crowd. The darkey, barber acrobat, and grey eyed Annie combination came in for a share of attention. A tintype gallery, a number of Aunt Sallies, and a phonograph man, each tried and fairly succeeded, in drawing a few shekels from the pockets of the crowd. In the inner circle “Uncle Dave” mounted a stocky mare, ‘wearing the same white “Greely plug” that has done duty for so many years, was the High Muckety-Muck of the sports. A barrel race, wheelbarrow race, running race (forward and backward), smoking race, run and jump, bun feed, and pig race were all run off in lively time and afforded and endless amount of fun for the spectators. On the track, Moonstone, Bayonet, Texas Pointer, and Daisy had a close contest for supremacy, with the result that Bayonet got 1st, Moonstone 2nd, and Texas Pointer 3rd place. A bicycle race was wheeled off between the heats and resulted in Brownlee 1st and Moles 2nd. The baby show attracted a lot of interested spectators. Mayor Culbert and the Recorder man acting as judges. They could not do better than to award the prize to an Athens baby, seeing that the judges at Unionville were partial enough to award the prize for the best looking young lady to that classic village. Mrs. Alex. Green was awarded the special prize. The prize list will be published in the Recorder as soon as the secretary gets it in shape for publishing and it can be relied upon as correct and official. He will perform innumerable acts on a spider-looking wire sprung from two to the highest telegraph poles which can be secured. A few of his acts are: Running forward and backward with feet encased in market baskets; Crossing wire blindfolded with a bul lap bag; walking backward with feet in hoops; carrying a cook stove to the centre of wire, cooking and eating a meal consisting of eggs, chops $c. Performance of one hour’s duration. THE BALLOON ASCENSION Will be made at 4 p.m. the second day, Sept. 18th, by Miss. Fannie VanTassell of New York. The thousands who witnessed the successful ascension and leap last fall by Prince Leo were thrilled at the grandeur of the scene as the immense canvas rose into space with the daring aeronaut clinging to a single trapeze bar, but the culmination of excitement was reached as the little cord was severed and the parachute commenced to drop. For a moment it rushed downward through space, until it filled with air, when it slowly floated away over the fields and woods and finally settled to the ground with its undaunted living freight unharmed. There need be no fear that the ascension will not take place, for if the weather proves unfavorable on the day named the high wire performance will be given instead and the balloon ascension made the following day. And then, if the weather is such that it is unsafe to make the attempt, the fair will be continued over to the 20th in order that the ascension may take place. Those that saw it last year will see something better this (year), and those within reach who fail to visit Unionville fair, will miss the opportunity of a life time. This will be the most exciting scene during the fair. The process of inflating the balloon with hot air will be done in the presence of the assembled thousands. Prince Leo, the manager, is a thorough gentleman, courteous to all, and will be pleased to answer any questions relating to his feelings and experiences in the many hundreds of ascensions he has made in different parts of the world. Miss VanTassell will also personally superintend the process of inflation and see that everything is in proper order before the word to cast off is given. The opportunity to see this may never occur again, as the expense of getting this exhibition is enormous. TRIALS OF SPEED IN RING The Committee on Sports will offer nearly $300.00 in purses for speed on the best and fastest ½ mile track in this district. Purses divided as follows: SECOND DAY, Sept. 18 Green Race – $30.00 Divided -$15, $10, $5. Open to horses that never won public money. 2.40 Class – $30.00 Divided -$15, $10, $5. THIRD DAY, Sept. 19 3 Min. Class – $45.00 Divided – $22, $15, $8 Free for all – $70.00 Divided – $35, $23, $12 Conditions–N.T.A. Rules to govern. Races in harness – mile heats – best three in five. Four to enter, three to start. Entrance fees, 10 per cent. Open to trotters and pacers. Horses elegible Sept 1st DJ.FORTH, Sec’y-Treas. The Fair In presenting this annual programme to the friends and patrons of this popular Fair, the Officers and Directors wish to return their sincere thank to exhibitors and visitors who have annually assisted to make the Fair a success. Year after year the Fair has grown in popular favour, until it is generally conceded, even by our rivals, that the Unionville Fair far outstrips all others in Eastern Ontario in the number and variety of its exhibits, the immense number that yearly congregate within its enclosures, and in the excellence of its arrangements for catering to the wants and whims of a fair going people. Our buildings are the largest and best arranged of any east of Kingston, while the Cattle, Sheep, Swine, and Poultry sheds and pens are large in number and admirably adapted to the requirements of those exhibiting. For this season we can only add that everything will be put in first class order and that no pains or expense will be spared to keep up the reputation of the Unionville Fair. Horses The inner circle for showing mares and colts, double and single driving horses, is well adapted to the purpose, being roomy with a smooth surface, and having a convenient Judges’ stand in the centre. Our fair was always noted for the largest and best exhibits of horses in the whole eastern portion of the province, and present indications are that there will be a good show in that class this fall. Poultry We question if there is a better building or more convenient pens of more of them, than in the poultry department at the Unionville fair. A large number of our most prominent exhibitors are also poultry fanciers, and the exhibits in this class always draw a large amount of attention. Grain and Roots The grain and roots will very likely, owing to the very dry season, be much less in quantity and quality than former years; there-fore, if any friend of the society has a good sample of a cereal of any kind we would ask him by all means to bring it along to help keep the exhibits up to the quality usually shown. Our prizes are such as to pay any one well to make and extra effort to bring in a good sample. The Dairy Industry The Dairy industry is a very important one in these counties and the exhibits should be correspondingly large. The quality of Leeds County cheese and butter stands second to none in the world. We usually have large exhibits and we would urge our patrons and cheese and butter makers to help us keep up the reputation of the Unionville Fair of having the largest and best exhibit in this section. The display of honey, bread, cakes, apples, vegetables, and domestic articles is always good. Be sure to come out and see them. Sheep and Swine The sheep and swine buildings and pens are convenient roomy, and so placed as to show off the exhibits to the best advantage. Persons wishing to sell or buy stock should be on hand, as there is always quite a lot of animals in these classes that change hands during the fair, and there is no better place for a buyer to go than to a place where he can see competing animals side by side. Carriages Have a roomy building, built purposely for the exhibit of carriages. If you are a manufacture, bring your wares to our fair and show in competition with others. If you are thinking of purchasing a carriage, what better place than where you can see the different makes arranged side by side ? The implements are shown on the grounds outside this building and many new and useful machines are shown. Many people for the first time see some new ideas in machinery at the fair. Come and see if there is not something new for you here this fall. HOW TO GET THERE If you live along the line of the B & W Railway, purchase your ticket at your nearest station. Special excursions tickets with a coupon attached that will admit to the grounds can be procured at greatly reduced rates. A time table and rates from the different stations will be issued in a few days. Always tear off your gate coupon and have it ready before you reach the gate to prevent delay and confusion. If you are a farmer, hitch up Dobbin and Doll to the spring wagon, and if you have not enough of your own family to fill every seat, give an invitation to your neighbour to jump in and come to the greatest show on earth. If you are a young man that has “no mash” to bring to the fair, jump on to your silent steed and away to the fair. We will give you the use of the track at 1 p.m. the 2nd day for a fancy drill by the bicyclists present, and we may be able to offer a few liberal prizes for the best bicycle rider. Watch the Athens Reporter for any special announcements. We ask everybody’s assistance in making the Unionville Fair a great big success. Remember, friends, we offer more prizes and more money for competitors than all the other fairs in these United Counties put together. Our track for trials of speed is in the best condition and our purses the largest. Our buildings, pens, stalls and accommodation for man and beast are the best. Our list of special attractions are away ahead of anything even attempted by any other fair in this whole district, and please remember as well that all these things take money to bring up to the perfection we have got them and we confidently appeal to the public to come up to our help, and by swelling our gate receipts this year enable us to meet all the heavy obligations we have incurred as well as stimulate us to renew exertions to give you something even better next season. THE BALLOON GOES UP Every time Prince Leo signs a contract Hundreds of thousands in the United States have viewed with wonder, awe and admiration Miss VanTassel’s daring aerial sights. AND PRETTY GIRLS ? Well- yes. Unionville Fair is annually attended by the finest looking girls in the country, which is equivalent to saying the best in the world. The adults as well as the small boys should hoard up their coppers and spare change to provide themselves with taffy, peanuts and soft drinks. No intoxicating liquors of any kind are sold or allowed on or near the grounds “Cheap John” or his chum, will be there to give value for the money invested. No fakirs or games of chance of any kind are allowed on the grounds or within 300 yards thereof. BRASS BAND A first class Brass Band will be on the grounds the last two days and discourse sweet music to the crowds. Salvail & Thomas’ Big Show ! Mr. Salvail, who gave the best of satisfaction throughout this country last fall, has united with Mr. Thomas, another experienced showman, and together they will exhibit under a brand new canvas at Unionville Fair the best side-show travelling on the continent. Among the attractions will be:—- SALVAIL, KING OF MAGIC Whose Tricks and Illusions are the Wonder of the Age A DEVIL FISH The only one ever captured alive—to be shown in a large tank of water. MISS BELLE MORRISON The World’s greatest Second Sight Artist Mis Alice Loe and her Den of Performing Snakes The largest Snakes ever seen in Canada. Her performance is well worth double the price of admission. ADOLPH, THE FIRE KING An Artist of Continental Repute A new version that never fails to please Everything new, neat and nice—strictly moral and high class. No one should miss seeing this triumph of the showman’s profession. This news article was taken from a full page advertisement in the Athen’s Reporter July 30th, 1895 An Account of Miss. Jennette (Fanny) Van Tassel On July 4, 1888, Jenny Van Tassel was scheduled to attempt the first parachute jump by a woman, in Los Angeles. But after practice runs of the Van Tassel balloon went awry – including landing on the roof of a former mayor and demolishing a chimney – the police decided to prevent the ill-advised adventure. But Jenny managed to escape the detective assigned to keep her from the much-ballyhooed stunt and climbed into the gondola piloted by her husband. After rising 6,000 feet Jenny Van Tassel made her historic leap. In a later interview with the Los Angeles Times, Jenny was described as “big she weighed 165 pounds, young, handsome and blonde.” For her part, Jenny responded by describing her jump: “I ain’t exactly a bird nor an angel, but it’s just about what I imagine the sensation of flying is. It was beautiful!” In 1892, Jeanette Van Tassel was invited to participate in a grand celebration by the Nawab of Dhaka, Khwaja Ahsanullah. The ruling Nawabs were well-known for their special events and the balloon ascent would be the first in East Bengal. The plan was to have Jeanette Van Tassel launch from a south riverbank of the Buriganga River, float north of the river and land on the roof of the main building of the Nawab compound at Ahsan Manzi. A fire of wood and kerosene produced the hot air that filled the balloon, which began its flight without incident at 6:20 p.m. on March 16, 1892. But the winds didn’t cooperate. Instead of landing on the palace roof, Van Tassel’s balloon came to rest in a tree at Ramna Garden, nearly three miles away. Police soon arrived and attempted a rescue by extending a bamboo pole to the gondola. As Jeanette Van Tassel descended, the pole snapped and she crashed to the ground, severely injured. She died a few days later. There is little evidence that Park Van Tassel continued his barnstorming career after the Dhaka incident. He died in Oakland, Calif., on October 24, 1930, at the age of 78. At the time of his death, he was operating the “Captain P. A. Van Tassel Toy Balloon Mfg. Co.,” a maker of miniature balloon ascension toys. Jeanette Van Tassel is buried in the Narinda Christian Cemetery at Dhaka. Jeanette Van Tassel, Born: ca.1864, Died: March 1892 Unionville fair directors are always to the front in the line of special attractions and are able to announce that for this season they have a grand array of Talent engaged for the last two days of the fair on the 17th, 18th and 19th, September. An indenture of agreement has been entered into with Prince Leo of New York for a balloon ascension by Miss Fannie Van Tassell of New York on the 2nd day, 18th, and a high wire performance of at least one hour’s duration, by Prince Leo himself, on the 19th. Should the weather prove unfavourable for balloon ascension on the second day the high wire performance will be given that day and the balloon ascension on the third day, and if the weather should be unfavourable on both days the fair will be extended over to the 20th in order that the ascension may be made. The directors have incurred a heavy risk in this engagement and hope to have the liberal presence and patronage of all the old patrons of the fair as well as thousands of people who never visited the fair. In a future issue of the Reporter a programme of the many feats to be performed by Prince Leo on the high wire will be given. Another very interesting attraction at the coming fair will be O’Connell & Salvail’s clown circus, museum and trained animal show, which will certainly be on the grounds on the last two days. Six different kinds of large colored lithographs will be hung up in a few days, giving full particulars. The horse ring and track will be further improved, and already some of the best horses in Eastern Ontario have signified their intention of competing for the very liberal prizes that will be offered. And then we hope our readers will not for a moment forget that the Unionville fair was always noted for the largestand best collection of stock, grain, roots, ladies’ work and the thousand and one things that go to make up a great aggregation of agricultural products and handiwork of the farmers, mechanics, and dairymen of Leeds county. Unionville fair officers never deceived the public. They always advertise thoroughly what they have to offer their patrons and always carry out what they advertise; so that any announcements that appear over the signatures of the society may be relied upon as being bona fide. Further announcements will be made from time to time through these columns. The above is merely an introduction of what is to follow. The above article is from- The Athen’s Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Tuesday July 9, 1895 issue The Athen’s Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Excerpts from various issues Tuesday Aug 20, 1895 issue Our little machine agent intends making some fine exhibits at the Unionville fair next month and will make a discount of 10 per cent off all orders taken at the fair this season. Tuesday Sep 3, 1895 issue The sight of a lifetime – Prince Leo’s Balloon ascension and parachute leap. Tuesday Sep 10, 1895 issue The Unionville Fair. Before another issue of the Reporter reaches our readers the fair of 1895 will be a thing of the past. We therefore wish to remind all our readers within reach to be sure to attend the fair, which will be held on the 17th, 18th and 19th Sept There are many reasons why we can make this request with all confidence, amongst which is that those who attend are certain to be well repaid for their trouble in going to a place where they will see the largest collection of cattle, horses, sheep, swine, poultry, the products of the farm, and the handiwork of the mechanic and farmer. Besides this they will see the best all-around attractions and amusements to be found at any fair in the whole eastern district. Let us briefly notice a few of the most prominent. The Unionville fair has now one of the best ½ mile tracks in the country. He number of horses competing for the liberal purses offered for trials of speed promises to be large. The balloon ascension on the second day by Miss Fanny VanTassell, who will, when at an altitude of 4,000 feet, drop to the ground by he aid of a parachute, will be a scene of thrilling interest. The high-wire performance by Prince Leo on the third day will be a novel innovation in this section. The managers of the fair of 1895 have doe everything possible with the means at their disposal to make the fair worthy of patronage of the public, and they confidently appeal to a generous and appreciative public to come out and by swelling the gate receipts assist them in meeting the heavy financial obligations incurred, as well as stimulate them to renewed efforts to make each succeeding annual fair better than its predecessor. The application for space at the fair is unusually large. Four different manufactures have applied for space to show harness. Robt. Craig, “the hatter” writes this a.m. asking for the whole west side of rear annex to show $2,000 worth of furs. Morrison & Percival, Brockville have a full line of stoves, ranges and furnaces on exhibition, and give ten per cent discount on all orders taken. C.J.Gilroy & Son’s heard of Holsteins drew 5 first and 7 second prizes on Kingston exhibition grounds last week, which is looked upon as a fairly good beginning in the prize winning for this season. The herd is at the Toronto Industrial exhibition this week, in competition with the best herds in the Dominion. We are pleased that in Eastern Ontario we have enterprising farmers who are anxious to get into the best fair rings and compete for a portion of the good prizes given. We hear that Messrs. John Forth & Sons, W.H. & C.H. McNish, Wm. Neilson & Son, all large exhibitors at Unionville fair, were equally fortunate at Kingston. The B&W will run special excursion trains on the last two days of the fair, leaving Brockville at 11 a.m., Lyn at 11:15, stop at Seeley’s and Lee’s if Flagged. That train will run on to Delta and leave there for Unionville at 12:30, p.m., Lyndhurst at 1 p.m. and Soperton, (if Flagged) and Athens at 1 p.m. sharp. Two trains will leave Unionville for Athens at close of fair, one at 5 and the other at 5:30. Train for Brockville at 5:15, Posters with time table and rates, including admission to the grounds will be issued soon. Tuesday Sep 24, 1895 issue Lyn– Saturday, Sept 21 – The Unionville fair was voted a great success by the many who visited it from here. The “merry go round” was a great attraction to old and young, but centrifugal force was the strongest in the case of one of the “boys”. In the 1970’s Doug and Judy Avery opened a “farmer’s market” in an old barn located on their property. They grew and sold fresh garden vegetables and in the spring would also sell bedding plants. Their barn stood out because they painted large flowers all over it. The business was located on the north side of the highway. On the north side of the highway just west of the McLean house was Latimer’s Store. The store was a very small building that had the basic groceries that you would need, they also had candy and ice cold bottles of soda for the kids or thirsty travellers. The little business was run by Mr. Lytle James Latimer (b1873) and his wife Adella Deborah (b.1877). Out in front of the building stood two old gas pumps, the ones with the glass containers on top into which you would pump the amount of gas you wanted and than after reaching the desired quantity, gravity would take over and when the trigger on the pump was pulled it would flow into your tank. There were also several cabins located on the property where the traveller could spend the night. The cabins were called Cedarholm. The old brick house painstakingly constructed by hand in 1823 with every brick handmade on the land surrounding the dwelling was built by Robert McLean. Five generations lived in the house until 1933 when it was sold. The Building of the McLean House and early life living there The building of the McLean house was a Herculean effort by man and beast. Early in its history the McLean homestead was known as Pinehurst Farm. Construction of the brick house started in 1823 and the McLeans moved in two years later. The house was built at a total cost of about $1,600. The red clay bricks, 65,000 in all, were made on the farm, with oxen stamping the clay and water mixture into a pliable condition. The bricks were then moulded by hand into brick size wooden containers. The 12 inch thick beams were hewn by hand; the foundation was composed of stone and cemented by hand. The interior walls and partitions were made of solid brick and plaster. The interior woodwork and doors were made of red pine planking and all the flooring consisted of wide pine planking. All the interior doors were made in the “Bible” design, sometimes called “prayer doors”. The design had a white cross in the upper panel. There are five fireplaces, three on the first floor and two on the second floor. The mantels are of red pine. The kitchen fireplace was equipped with a crane, from which the cooking pots were hung. At one side was the oven. It is believed that in baking, a wood fire was kindled in the oven, and when the fuel was reduced to coals, they were raked out and the freshly kneaded loaves of bread placed inside to bake. As was the tradition of the times, two of the first floor rooms were reserved as bedrooms for the elders of the family. The barns were built with high stone walls topped by lumber sawn from the trees felled to clear the land. The farm had stables for horses, barns for cattle and folds for sheep. McLean house was the locale for husking bees, sugar making, quilting bees and dances, and headquarters for and barn raising bees in the area. For more information on the McLeans go to “Our People, Our History” on this website. Continuing along Highway No 2 from east to west, just after passing Grant’s Creek and St Lawrence Park you would come to the Rock School House. The new Rock School, which stands today as a home, was built in 1937. The school was built of native granite quarried a few yards distant from the school. This new school is located on Hwy 2 west of Brockville, and west of Oakland Cemetery. It is regarded as a model rural public school with accommodations for over 30 pupils, indoor toilets, two cloak rooms, a teacher’s room, store room and a basement playroom. The original Rock School was built in 1844, and stood to the west of the present site. Prior to this stone school and earlier log school stood on the bank of Grants Creek further east of the present location. The old brick house painstakingly constructed by hand in 1823 with every brick handmade on the land surrounding the dwelling was built by Robert McLean. Five generations lived in the house until 1933 when it was sold. The story of the McLeans goes back to old Paisley in Scotland where Alexander McLean took his bride Ann Lang on August 3, 1763. Eleven years later, they set sail for the New World, following their beloved pastor, Rev. John Witherspoon, to America. Their ship was the “Commerce”, a famous trans-Atlantic” sailing ship of the day. The McLeans settled in Harpersfield, N.Y., but they were soon rooted out by the American Revolutionary War. The McLeans remained loyal to the British Crown and were so harassed by their rebellious neighbours that they had to move on nine separate occasions in one year. Each time they lost their possessions, plundered by the rebels. They were cultivating a small farm near Baleston Springs, NY in 1778 but were again driven out. In 1783, with the war over, The McLeans, father, mother and six children, made their way to Canada as U.E.L. refugees. They travelled by way of Lake Champlain to Montreal and thence up the St. Lawrence River by bateau to a point west of Brockville. Their boats were leaking badly and they decided to land on the heavily forested shore of the St. Lawrence near where the community of Fernbank is now located. Once ashore, the family of eight set to work felling trees and soon had a log cabin for a home. The cabin reassured 18 by 20 feet, providing snug protection from the elements. The house was built by hand, for they had very few tools with which to work. The area at that time was still in the Province of Quebec. Division came in 1791. The log cabin endured nearly 40 years. In 1823, the family, having prospered through great toil and industry, built the present house, beam by beam, brick by brick. The bricks were made by hand, using small moulds, at two brickyards on the homestead. One brickyard was located where No.2 highway passes Fernbank, in front of the house, while the other was situated in a pasture north of the farm. Of the early days of the McLeans in Elizabethtown, Lillian Hogaboam, who later occupied the house had this to say: “ Here, alone in the forest without roads, neighbours, schools or doctors, they lived the early months on the new land. Other Loyalists and refugees came and a settlement known as Elizabethtown grew. The trees were cut and the stumps grubbed. Their land was cleared. Cattle and sheep were brought in. The women spun the sheep’s wool into material to keep them warm. Times became better, the family older and they had a better knowledge, as a great deal of time was spent reading books. One of the sons constructed a very good theodolite (a surveying instrument) thought he had never seen one. In the absence of a minister, the consolidations of religion were sought by assembling neighbours and reading a sermon weekly from a book.” Alexander McLean, who was a silk weaver by trade, and Ann had four sons, Robert, John, Alexander and Archibald. Robert’s son Alexander, wed Catharine McCray. John had three sons, Charlie, William who became a minister and Frederick who married Eliza Wilson. Alexander born in 1770, whose wife’s name was Jane, had a son John born in 1803 and died in 1821, and a daughter Jane who became the wife of John Stephens and died March 14, 1871. Archibald born in 1769, wed a girl named Ann. Their son James B. born in 1807 also married a girl named Ann and died March 22, 1880 aged 73 years. Alexander and Catharine McCrady McLean were wed in 1820 and had a daughter Catharine born in 1835 and died unmarried in 1909, and a son John born in 1825 who died in 1850 in his 26th year. John McLean born at Harpersfield, NY on October 9th 1775, came to Elizabethtown with his family being eight years of age when the McLean boats landed. He grew up on the homestead, and when the War of 1812 broke out, won a commission as a lieutenant in the 1st Regiment of Leeds. He took part in the Battle of Crysler Farm and later in the assault on Ogdensburg and capture of that American post by British troops who crossed the St. Lawrence ice at Prescott to attack the fort. He subsequently was promoted to Captain and then to major, receiving large tracts of land for his service to the Crown. He died at McLean House July 17, 1861 aged 86. The homestead of 228 acres was proved up by Alexander McLean on March 23, 1798. In 1810, it was willed to Robert McLean and on May 16th, 1818, it fell to Robert’s eldest son Alexander. The adjoining farm, 114 acres of Lot 24 of the First Concession of Elizabethtown was owned by Alexander McLean who transferred the land in 1808 to Henry and Jane McLean. Five generations of McLeans have lived in the brick house, the last of that name being Frederick J. McLean who died in 1931. The Hogagoams took possession on September 1, 1944 and lived there until selling out to Clarence Babcock of Brockville. The Johnstons later took over the home. The McLeans are buried in the old cemetery at Younge Mills. In all the graves of 56 members of the family dating back to the sons of the original settler of Fernbank, Alexander McLean have been identified. The Building of the McLean House and early life living there The building of the McLean house was a Herculean effort by man and beast. Early in its history the McLean homestead was known as Pinehurst Farm. Construction of the brick house started in 1823 and the McLeans moved in two years later. The house was built at a total cost of about $1,600. The red clay bricks, 65,000 in all, were made on the farm, with oxen stamping the clay and water mixture into a pliable condition. The bricks were then moulded by hand into brick size wooden containers. The 12 inch thick beams were hewn by hand; the foundation was composed of stone and cemented by hand. The interior walls and partitions were made of solid brick and plaster. The interior woodwork and doors were made of red pine planking and all the flooring consisted of wide pine planking. All the interior doors were made in the “Bible” design, sometimes called “prayer doors”. The design had a white cross in the upper panel. There are five fireplaces, three on the first floor and two on the second floor. The mantels are of red pine. The kitchen fireplace was equipped with a crane, from which the cooking pots were hung. At one side was the oven. It is believed that in baking, a wood fire was kindled in the oven, and when the fuel was reduced to coals, they were raked out and the freshly kneaded loaves of bread placed inside to bake. As was the tradition of the times, two of the first floor rooms were reserved as bedrooms for the elders of the family. The barns were built with high stone walls topped by lumber sawn from the trees felled to clear the land. The farm had stables for horses, barns for cattle and folds for sheep. McLean house was the locale for husking bees, sugar making, quilting bees and dances, and headquarters for and barn raising bees in the area. On Sunday, the McLeans walked to church, or in the winter rode sleighs. Buggies and wagons were the mode of travel for families, but the old saddle horse was the standby for the lone traveller having to go any distance. Few people today realize that the first St. Lawrence Park in Elizabethtown was located several miles west of where the present park is located in Brockville. This park was located just to the west of Grant’s Creek and was accessed by the King’s Highway or by daily steamer’s that would dock at the park. If you close your eyes, you can imagine a sunny day in 1865 and taking a horse and buggy ride out to spend the day at the park. From the advertisements posted in the Recorder newspaper, we get a glimpse into the activities that could be had during a day spent at the park. The park provided seats, swings, and every convenience for peoples’ accommodation. There was a Dancing Hall 30×70 feet, a large bowling alley, saloon and a dining room, capable of seating 130 persons, and for those who wanted to spend more time, there were bedding accommodations. The Saloon would have been furnished with the best brands of Liquors and Cigars plus one of the best cooks in the area to prepare your meals. For those of you who wanted to do something more exciting outdoors, there was a half mile track for racing. Row boats would be available for fishing or just taking you best girl out for a ride. All kinds of games were also available, such as Quoits, Croquet, Ball and many more. They had set aside a large 20 acre field for games of all sorts. When you drive by the area 150 years later, no traces remain of this fabulous park, but if you close your eyes you can see and hear the fun that was to be had in this area. The advertisement as it appeared in the Brockville paper of July 19th, 1875 is reprinted here for easier reading: St. Lawrence Park, (McDonald Point) ONE AND A-HALF MILES above BROCKVILLE. On the right bank of the RIVER St. LAWRENCE, in the midst of the beautiful scenery of the Thousand Islands. A.McDougall, Prop. The Proprietor would respectfully notify PARTIES, PIC-NICS &c., he has just fitted the St. LAWRENCE PARK with seats, swings, and every convenience for their accommodation. The PARK has a DANCING HALL 30×70 feet, LARGE BOWLING ALLEY, SALOON, DINING ROOM, (capable of seating 130 persons) and bedding accommodations. Carriages to be had on short notice. First-class ROW BOATS and FISHING TACKLE. All kinds of Games, such as Quoits, Croquet, Ball, &c. Two large wharves, and everything necessary to make a visit, long or short, most pleasant. It has a most beautiful Grove, and the best fishing bay on the St. Lawrence. THE SALOONS Are furnished with all the best brands of Liquors and Cigars. One of the best Cooks that can be obtained has been engaged. Stabling for horses, and a track of half a mile in preparation. A large twenty acre field for Games. There is no more desirable spot on the whole length of the St. Lawrence. All orders by mail, addressed to A. McDOUGALL, Proprietor, Brockville, ONT., will receive immediate attention. The Fire Brigade Band Has been engaged in connection with the Park, and will furnish Music for parties at very reasonable rates. >No Charge for Boats landing at the Wharves. The Boats going East and West pass within twenty rods of the Park. The “Peerless” can be engaged at reasonable rates for excursions and picnic parties. She is owned and kept at the Park. Brockville, July 19th, 1875 Another advertisement from the Brockville paper: Grand Excursion and Picnic. Under the Management of Prescott Lodge of Good Templars, will take place on Thursday, 29th June, ..TO.. McDONALD’S POINT. The Steamer ‘St. Jean Baptiste” will call at the Brockville and Ottawa Railway Wharf at 10 a.m., and thence proceed to Pic-Nic Ground. Tickets 15 cents, or Two for 25 cents; to Be had at M’MULLEN & Co’s. Bookstore. Prescott, June 23rd, 1865 In an excerpt from Walter Kilborn’s book How Dear to my Heart he tells of going to St. Lawrence park in July of 1881 Next day was a holiday. The Farmers’ Picnic was to be held at St. Lawrence Park, a short distance west of the Brockville cemetery. My cousin had complained in the morning of being uncomfortable from the sunburn he had received the day before, but went with us to the picnic. Tablecloths were spread on the grass under the trees, and dinner was served, everyone sitting around tailor fashion and enjoying the many good things from the lunch baskets, all but my cousin, who protested he did not care to sit, but leaned against a tree to eat his lunch. In the afternoon there were swimming races, boat races, and a lot of other fun, but Vernon would not even get in a boat, as it hurt him to sit down, he said. It was a wonderful afternoon. The men got a long rope; choosing sides till twelve men were selected for each team and then had a tug of war. It was a great day, but to soon we were loaded onto the wagons, all but the big boys and girls who were staying for the evening to enjoy a dance at the pavilion. For the complete story and others look on our website under Stories by Walter Kilborn “The Sunburn” From The Athen’s Reporter and County of Leeds Advertiser Tuesday July 2, 1895 issue– St. Lawrence Park A large number of Athenians went to St. Lawrence Park on the excursion last Friday evening. The trip was unanimously voted to have been delightful, and some enterprising local organization should arrange a similar trip to take place at the annual illumination of the islands. It would prove an immense success. The river on Friday evening was simply covered with row boats going and coming from the park. The speakers addressed a very large audience on the general polities of the day but did not as some expected, make special mention of the Manitoba school question. The Athenians rushed home about 1 a.m. very much pleased with the evening’s outing. I was about six years of age and it was Christmas time. We had been at Grandfather’s and I had been given a lovely pair of red skates. Unfortunately Christmas Day was on Saturday, and to wait until Monday to try them was almost too much too think of. Sunday forenoon I bored holes in the heels of my boots with a gimlet, tried on the skates, took them off, and finally went out of the house the back way and was off to a small piece of ice near the edge of the creek. It had been snowing so I had to clean off the ice enough to have a clear spot and then put on my skates again. I had never tried to skate before, but that day I got so I could go across and back without falling, more than three or four times ! I certainly was proud of myself, and the little red skates and in fact at the age of 81, I still have one of those skates. But all things must come to an end, and tired out I climbed the hill to the barn, went in through the lower door, through the doors at the front of the barn and walked on to the house. When I went in my father said, “Where have you been ?” “Down to the barn,” I replied “No further ?” he said. “No.” I said “Where are your skates ?” he asked and when I told him, “Down in the barn”, I knew I was caught. He went to the barn, and around to the back where he found my tracks coming up the hill. Then I saw him coming back to the house. He invited me out to the shed, saying it was bad enough to go skating on Sunday, but to lie about it was worse. I got a good strapping, but it was worth it; I had learned to skate. The Lyn Pond, in the first part of the winter was a great spot and young and old were on the ice each day. I had done my chores at the farm and then my skates, with new straps, were slung over my shoulder and I was off for the whole afternoon. The ice that day was like glass, you could go away up around the bend, around the island, then on up the creek and through the woods, clear out to Seeleys. A young lad about my own age, I think his name was Mulligan skated along with me, in fact we were together all that day, swinging along, hand in hand and we had a lot of fun together. I knew very few of the other boys and was quite contented to have him for company. Tired out at last, I took off my skates and walked home. I never knew that mile home to be so long before. Next day word came to the farm that the boy I had skated with was very ill with diphtheria, but I kept still and did not tell them that I had been with him all the day before. For a couple of weeks afterward I could imagine my throat was getting sore, and I would steal out and get some salt and water to gargle until it was almost raw. The boy I had been with got worse, and he finally passed away, but I never was sick, and did not tell mother about it until long afterwards. The teacher at the Howard School, Jack Shaw, was a young man, who was studying for a medical course at college, and at noon, after eating his lunch, he would put his head on his arms and go to sleep at his desk. One day there were only about nine boys at school, no girls at all. After we had seen the teacher settle for his nap, we took our skates and started for Howard’s flats, which at that time were covered with a lovely sheet of ice. Not satisfied with staying there, we raced down to the creek and away back towards the other street, climbing over logs and fences that divided the farms, continuing on behind the Parslow farm aand build, past the farm that later was the Thompson place, till we came to the rapids. One of the boys who knew this locality said there was a nice pond above the rapids, where once a dam had been built, making poser for a small factory that was owned by a Mr. Niblock, who manufactured wooden horse rakes. I remember we had one of these rakes at the farm before father purchased a new rake with steel teeth. The old rake was a well built machine but to dump out the hay you had to step from a board at the edge of the shafts to a platform, the frame of which passed over the axle of the rake; then you had to hang on to a post behind the horse so that your weight would lift up the teeth made of turned oak. When the hay was all cleared from the teeth you stepped back to the board you first stood on and let the teeth drop down again. It was a tricky job, as you might get your foot caught. I did that once and got a bad squeeze. But to go back to my story… We climbed up around the rapids, and sure enough there was the lovely sheet of ice on the pond, where we played shinny until we were tired and ready to start back. But it was slower work getting to the school, and as we neared the road we saw a man with a load of wood on his way home. That made us realize that it must be nearly three o’clock. Going to the schoolhouse everything seemed very still, so one of the boys went around to the side window and looked in. There lay our t stretched out on his bench, his coat rolled up for a pillow, and sound asleep. It was pretty cold outside, we did not want to waken him, so we opened the door, walked quietly in and all stood behind the stove till one of us sneezed and our teacher sat up. Looking at his watch, and then around the room and seeing us at last, he said “Take your seats”. In a few minutes he said, “We will now take our geography class. You may all come to the front. “One of you put some wood in the stove, and I want you,” pointing to one of the others, “to draw a map on the board of the St. Lawrence River, showing towns from Prescott at the east to Gananoque at the west.” Then He picked up his medical book and went on reading. The boy at the board was an artist who could draw a plan of any farmhouse and barn in the neighbourhood so that you knew at once whose it was. He started with the rapids below Prescott and a drawing of the town, then came to Maitland, where another group of buildings was shown, with the windmill tower, then on to Brockville. Then we saw what he was doing. It was a picture of the creek, the Parslow buildings, the Thompson place and the pond and rapids. Then to finish it, the barn and house of the Howard place with a drawing of the old well, the long pole on the post, and the rope and bucket to lower into the water ! It was pretty hard for us to keep from laughing. He then drew a picture of the school, adding some other buildings to represent Gananoque. The teacher stood up, walked over to the board and said, “You have got your plan the wrong way, the rapids run east and you have them running west.” He went on to Maitland and said, “Yes, you have got the windmill in all right.” Then on to Brockville. “Hum, yes, very good but you have put the towns on the wrong side of the river. But what is this post with the pole and bucket hanging down on the rope?” “Oh,” the boy said “That is the pump house at the waterworks.” Well that broke up the geography class, and in a few minutes we were on our way home. I never found out whether our teacher recognized the drawing, but we did and had many a laugh over it all. I would like to have that picture now. Skating parties were all the rage, as each winter brought its share of ice. One year, 1887, there was a lovely sheet of ice on Gardiner’s flats, located just east of the Chemical Works on the Second Concession. One moonlight night we took our spring wagon, got a load of the young people on board and drove down to the ice, There was a big crowd fro that neighbourhood already on the ice, a chair and hand sleigh had been brought and the girls who could not skate were treated to a swift ride, or just hung on to the chair and tried not to fall down. A couple of the boys would get one of the girls on the sleigh, go away up the ice and swing around, sometimes the runner would catch a root in turning and away the passenger would go rolling over again and again. When we started for home after getting our passengers on board, a lot of the boys going our way climbed on the wagon, and finally with the heavier load the rrear axle started to bend, with the result that one of the wheels was rubbing the box. We had to unload our passengers, all but the driver and walk the three and a half miles back to the farm. I have many pleasant memories of my good times on my skates but that night always seems to be a highlight of them all. This story is taken from the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings, published in 1954. It was about the middle of January. We had been nearly snowed under from a week’s storm – snow, then rain that flooded the flats along the creek, and a sudden change to a very cold weather that froze the snow, making a glare sheet of ice from the Lyn Road down across the creek that was still level with its banks. Sunday afternoon my cousin with his parents came up for a visit. We two were out in the yard, playing on the crust with the big hand sleigh and, looking across to Harper’s Hill, decided it would be a good chance to try a ride there. We walked up the road climbed the fence and got the sleigh in position then I lay down on my stomach and my cousin lay on my back Away we went ! The hill at the top was very steep, the sleigh gained speed and in seconds we were on the glare ice of the flat, then across the creek, up the bank and …. Woods. My cousin seeing the danger had thrown himself clear but I had no chance; the force of the collision had knocked me out for a minute or two. We finally got back across the creek, where my cousin laid me on the sleigh and began the long pull back to the house. We finally got to the warmth of the barn where I lay down on the straw in the feed floor, in front of the cattle for an hour. When I returned to the house, where my uncle was waiting to go home, I complained of a headache and got sent to bed. Next morning I felt better but never told mother what had happened to me, as I knew that she would say it was good enough for me, when I had gone sleigh riding on Sunday. Driving along the Lyn Road I often look down the hill. The line fence has been moved and passes closed to the clump of trees we hit that Sunday long ago. The sand and gravel have been taken away to the city so that there is no more fun on Harper’s Hill. But the memory of the boyhood escapade still lives. This story is taken from the book “How Dear to My Heart” by Walter Kilborn Billings, published in 1954.


--- [CON DARLING (1926 - 1993) - Flickr] ---
CON DARLING (1926 - 1993) This wonderful metal work is on Blockhouse Island in Brockville, Ontario, Canada. It pays tribute to Mr. Con Darling, remembered as an ambassador of smiles who dedicated his life to the betterment of humanity. Con Darling...the lovable & famous clown from Brockville, who walked every parade in rags pushing a live chicken in a stroller. to the delight of everybody who watched... 19 photos · 485 views


--- [Selfie with Con Darling | Culture Days 2020] ---
This is an archived event from Culture Days 2020. Images Selfie with Con Darling Self-guided History & heritage Kids Photography TourDate and time This activity runs the duration of Culture Days. Location Blockhouse Island Fat Lester's Patio Brockville, ON Access Free. Offered in English. Wheelchair accessible. About Every community owes an enormous debt of gratitude to volunteers in many fields, including arts and culture. Con Darling stood at the pinnacle of this group, well known to generations of Brockvillians, and always willing to appear at a local event to elicit smiles and laughter. This statue was made by the students of Thousand Islands Secondary School and was made financially possible by a grant from the City of Brockville and the local Lions Club. Con Darling was a local gentleman who always dressed up in a clown suit and pushed a chicken in a baby carriage in parades. He even lead the Grey Cup Parade in Toronto one year. This statue is a fitting tribute to a great humanitarian, who knew how to make people laugh and it's thanks to groups like the Lions Club who made the project possible. Organizer Brockville Culture Days Brockville Culture Days is a community grassroots organization dedicated to promoting arts and culture year round. As much a networking and facilitation group it encourages the exploration and formation of linkages between artists in different milieu, disciplines and creative communities to explore the art of possibility. This event is part of a hub: Brockville Courthouse Avenue Hub Brockville Culture Days Brockville, ONBrockville's Court House Avenue may be the most impressive urban panoramic vista in all of Ontario. Add a splash of colour from the springtime tulip beds and the issue is settled. If you have an interest in Ontario history, architecture, or...
