=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Phyllida Barlow - Wikipedia]
After graduating from Slade School of Art in 1966, Barlow began a forty-year-long career as a teacher in various institutions, starting with a part-time teaching position in sculpture at the former West of England College of Art, now known as the University of the West of England, Bristol. [10]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phyllida_Barlow

[Exhibition Learning Notes: ‘Phyllida Barlow. unscripted’]
May 20, 2024 · Born in 1944 in Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, Barlow studied at Chelsea School of Art (1960 – 1963) and graduated from the Slade School of Fine Art in 1966, where she later became a professor of Fine Art.
URL: https://www.hauserwirth.com/resources/exhibition-learning-notes-phyllida-barlow-unscripted/

[Dame Phyllida Barlow | Artist | Royal Academy of Arts]
May 26, 2011 · Barlow studied at Chelsea College of Art (1960 – 1963) and the Slade School of Art (1963 – 1966). She later taught at both schools and was Professor of Fine Art and Director of Undergraduate Studies at the latter until 2009.
URL: https://www.royalacademy.org.uk/art-artists/name/Phyllida-Barlow-ra

[Phyllida Barlow Examines the Art of Teaching]
PB I got a job in 1966 at the Bristol School of Art and then went to Chelsea from 1967 to 1978. From the mid-to late 1960s to the early 1970s every art school ...
URL: https://www.frieze.com/article/art-schools-phyllida-barlow

[Phyllida Barlow (born April 4, 1944), British artist ...]
Phyllida Barlow studied at Chelsea College of Art during the period from 1960 to 1963. She continued her studies and the same year, in 1963, she enrolled in the Slade School of Art (present-day Slade School of Fine Art), finishing the school in 1966.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/phyllida.barlow/3742761


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Phyllida Barlow - Wikipedia] ---
Dame Gillian Phyllida Barlow  (4 April 1944 – 12 March 2023) was a British visual artist. She studied at Chelsea College of Art (1960–1963) and the Slade School of Art (1963–1966). She joined the staff of the Slade in the late 1960s and taught there for more than forty years. She retired from academia in 2009 and in turn became an emerita professor of fine art. She had an important influence on younger generations of artists; at the Slade her students included Rachel Whiteread and Ángela de la Cruz. In 2017 she represented Great Britain at the Venice Biennale.




--- [Exhibition Learning Notes: ‘Phyllida Barlow. unscripted’] ---
This resource has been produced to accompany the exhibition ‘Phyllida Barlow. unscripted,’ curated by Frances Morris, at Hauser & Wirth Somerset from Saturday 25 May 2024 – Sunday 5 January 2025. Click here to download a PDF version of this resource. About Phyllida Barlow With an extensive career that spanned six decades, British artist Phyllida Barlow (1944 – 2023) is celebrated for pushing the boundaries of contemporary sculpture, leaving a profound impact on the art world and inspiring generations of artists to come. Born in 1944 in Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, Barlow studied at Chelsea School of Art (1960 – 1963) and graduated from the Slade School of Fine Art in 1966, where she later became a professor of Fine Art. She became a Royal Academician in 2011, and in 2015 she was awarded a CBE for her services to the arts in Queen Elizabeth II’s New Year Honours. Barlow’s work has been exhibited across institutions nationally and internationally. She was commissioned to create the site-specific exhibition ‘dock’ for the Duveen Galleries of Tate Britain, London, UK in 2014, and in 2017 she represented Britain at the Venice Biennale, Italy. Barlow had an important influence on younger generations of artists through her work and long teaching career in London art schools. Her students included Rachel Whiteread, Ángela de la Cruz and Tacita Dean. What does the exhibition look like? In the exhibition, ‘unscripted,’ Barlow’s work takes over Hauser & Wirth Somerset, marking the 10th anniversary of the gallery that was inaugurated by the artist’s solo exhibition ‘GIG’ in 2014. Beginning in the farmyard, a selection of outdoor sculptures disrupts the gallery’s exterior architectural spaces. Works such as ‘PRANK: jinx’ (2022 – 2023) and ‘untitled: megaphone’ (2014) tower over visitors on arrival. ‘untitled: stackedchairs’ (2014) overflow from the gallery’s granary building, parodying its original purpose for storing items such as grain. In the Bourgeois Gallery, a selection of standalone sculptural objects occupy the space. ‘Shedmesh’ (1975 – 2020) is a remake of a 1975 work of the same name, constructed from canvases knotted and tied on a grid resembling painting stretchers. ‘Object for the television’ (1994), a rare work from the 1990s, demonstrates how Barlow plays with the familiar household object of a television set and aerial, making it comical and absurd. Examples of how Barlow’s work pushed the boundaries of scale, materiality and architecture to its limits are on view in the Rhoades Gallery with works such as ‘untitled’ (2007), part of her ‘signs’ series. The textured columns and arches of ‘untitled: 21 arches’ (2012) are mostly made out of polystyrene, taking the place of solid concrete and encourages the visitor to walk around the full perimeter of the sculpture. A collection of Barlow’s smaller paintings, maquettes and wall works are on display in the Pigsty Gallery. These small paintings, her first experiments on canvas, were produced with larger canvases in mind, some specifically intended to show in this exhibition. The recent wall works in this space were made during the national lockdown, many of these works have not been shown publicly before. The Workshop Gallery presents a showcase of different iterations of Barlow’s ‘double act’ series (2010 – 2023). Shown through large-scale sculpture made from plaster, cement, plywood and scrim, as well as maquettes and drawings, these works placed together offer insight into how Barlow developed her sculptural language as one of process-based experimentation. A selection of Barlow’s expressive drawings are on view in the Engine Room. Drawing was always important to the artist and rarely viewed as simply preparation for her sculpture, but rather as an art form in their own right. The Oudolf Field contains outdoor works displayed amongst the garden’s landscaping. Alluding to Barlow’s earlier ‘Object for....’ series, Barlow’s anthropomorphic rabbit ears reappear as a motif in her series titled ‘PRANK (2022 – 2023) and reference objects found in the home and studio. What are the major themes within Barlow’s work? What is sculpture? Barlow challenges conventional understandings of sculpture by embracing unconventional materials, scale and spatial relationships. Her work poses questions about what constitutes three-dimensional artwork in public spaces and what relationship it can have with its surroundings. Many of her works appear as vertical masses, draped fabrics and balanced forms that dominate gallery spaces. These are so large that a team of studio assistants are usually required to assist in their construction. Through her innovative approach to making, Barlow redefines this art form as dynamic and experiential. Materiality Rejecting the traditional emphasis on permanence and monumentality, Barlow experimented with humble and ephemeral materials like cardboard, plywood, fabric, wooden pallets and plaster to make her works. In pushing beyond given material boundaries, Barlow transformed these everyday materials into dynamic and large-scale sculptures and installations. Barlow’s choice of materials emphasizes their inherent qualities of tactility and precarity, challenging notions of fixedness often associated with traditional sculptural materials. Her works refuse to be just objects, demonstrating that creative expression can emerge from the most unexpected of material sources. Space Barlow engages with space in innovative ways. Her installations are often sprawled across gallery spaces, blurring the distinction between sculpture and architecture, inviting viewers to navigate immersive environments. Her works are expansive; they spill out from the architecture that contains them, reaching into spaces overhead and underfoot. Barlow’s restless invented forms stretch the limits of mass, volume and height as they block, straddle and balance precariously. She described her work’s relationship with the space it inhabits as ‘antagonistic’ to the building. In ‘unscripted,’ ‘untitled: stacked chairs’ (2014) occupies the granary building at the front of the gallery, originally a storage container, but now transformed into a site that houses this sculpture for public display. Anti-monumental Barlow’s work questions traditional notions of monumentality through its deliberate embrace of impermanence and fragility. Barlow was brought up in a London that was recovering from the Second World War, and her childhood experiences of bomb damage inspired her to reference cycles of repair, destruction and rebuilding in her methods for making. Instead of evoking monumental permanence and solidity, her sculptures can appear temporary, unstable and in a state of flux. Site-specific Barlow’s site-specific approach often results in immersive experiences where the sculptures seem to emerge organically from the spaces that surround them and invite viewers to experience the space in unexpected ways. Barlow is known for drawing inspiration from her urban surroundings in London, referencing city objects and construction debris. In ‘unscripted,’ her collection of sculptures ‘untitled: surveillance’ (2015) hang from the ceiling like painted-out surveillance cameras, recontextualized in the gallery as if to watch visitors as they move through the space. What inspired Barlow’s work? Barlow’s work is inspired by the everyday objects that surround us. She would notice materials, spaces and the relationships between them. Barlow has spoken to her upbringing in 1950s England and the widespread cultural necessity for improvization, recycling and being resourceful as a means of post-war survival. She has reflected on how her parents would accumulate and recycle objects in her childhood home such as matchboxes, yoghurt pots and old clothes, and this ‘making do’ approach greatly informed her studio methods and material choices. Her work shows a knowledge of art history and other sculptors from the past, such as Robert Smithson and Richard Serra. The activity of sculpture making with techniques such as casting, modeling, carving and welding is also inspired by her own position as she continued to teach alongside her practice. How did Barlow make her work? As a core part of her studio process, Barlow tended not to preserve work once it was shown, instead recycling her materials and offcuts to make the next set of sculptures with a team of studio assistants. The methods of construction are often left completely visible in her work, revealing the physicality of the making process. Barlow also made drawings as an integral part of her practice. Drawing provided Barlow with the freedom to improvise. Her drawings often take objects from the real world like her sculptures, and she used a range of media such as, pencil, pastel, charcoal, acrylic and watercolor. Consistent with the intense physicality evident in her sculptural work, Barlow’s drawings make bold use of vibrant color and texture as a means of expression, and employ a range of techniques such as cross-hatching, scribbling or covering expanses of paper in washes of flat color. What is the Education Lab? The Education Lab, ‘Open Art School,’ in partnership with Bath Spa University, responds to Barlow’s life-long engagement with arts education and notably her ethos of there being ‘no right or wrong way’ to be creative. The Education Lab draws on the latest thinking within creative pedagogy and explorations learning. ‘Open Art School’ provides an interactive space for new ideas, experiments and working methods, inviting a multitude of voices and communities to engage through making. The Education Lab is part of the gallery’s commitment to inclusive learning programs. Located at our galleries in Downtown Los Angeles, Menorca and Somerset, as well as the Chillida Leku museum, each Education Lab is a collaboration with a local community group, school or university. What other artists and art movements does her work relate to? Arte Povera meaning ‘poor art’ in Italian, was a radical art movement that emerged in Italy in the late 1960s that rejected traditional techniques in favour of unconventional mediums, everyday objects and organic substances. It sought to challenge the commercialization of art and emphasize the process of creation. Post-minimalism is a movement that emerged in the late 1960s and early 1970s characterized by artists who retained minimalism’s focus on simple forms and shapes but introduced a wider range of simple and everyday materials, a greater emphasis on process and a more expressive approach. Eva Hesse (1936 – 1970) was a German born American sculptor who is best known for making abstract sculptures from soft and flexible materials such as latex, fiberglass and plastics. Louise Bourgeois (1911 – 2010) is recognized as one of the most important and influential artists of the 20th Century. Her career spanned over 70 years, during which time she employed a wide variety of working methods and materials, across genres of drawing, printmaking, painting, sculpture and textiles. Hans Arp (1886 – 1966) is a key figure in art history who focused his attention on everyday objects. He created biomorphic work whose organic forms highlighted his fascination with processes of procreation, growth and death. He studied the mineral, vegetable and animal worlds for creative inspiration. Glossary Anti-monumental A creative approach in art that rejects traditional notions of grandeur and permanence, often utilizing impermanent materials and unconventional forms to challenge established ideas of monumentality. Collage Used to describe both the technique and the resulting work of art in which pieces of paper, photographs, fabric and other ephemera are arranged and stuck down to a supporting surface. Immersive Refers to an experience that deeply involves and engages the participant or viewer, typically by surrounding them with sensory stimuli or creating a sense of total involvement in an environment. Materiality Refers to the physical qualities and characteristics of materials used in art or design, including their texture, color, weight and durability. Maquette A small-scale model or prototype used by artists or architects to visualise and plan larger-scale artworks or structures. Monument A structure created to commemorate a person or event. Monument often refers to a building or structure of historical or cultural significance. Plinth A heavy base or box on which a sculpture stands or is presented. Recycling Making something new out of something that has been used before. Scrim A semi-transparent fabric used in sculpture-making to create visual depth or to diffuse light within the sculpture. Sculpture Three-dimensional art made by one of four basic processes: carving, modeling, casting constructing. Site-specific Refers to a work of art designed specifically for a particular location and that has an interrelationship with the location. Studio assistant An individual who supports and aids the artist in various tasks within the studio, ranging from administrative duties to hands-on assistance with the creation of an artwork. Discussion questions Key stages 1 – 2 Select one drawing in the exhibition. Look closely at its colors and shapes. What adjectives can you think of to describe what you see? Choose one sculpture in the exhibition. Use your body to mimic the shape of the work? How can you make your body seem big and imposing or small and delicate? Key stages 3 – 4 Barlow often used found and recycled materials to make her work. List other materials or objects that you could make a Barlow inspired sculpture from. Why have you chosen these materials? Think about how these materials might feel to touch? Barlow’s sculptures and installations often hang, spill out and overflow from the spaces they inhabit. How many unusual ways can you spot the sculptures taking up space in the exhibition. GCSE and A-Level Barlow’s sculptural practice is grounded in an anti-monumental tradition. What are the differences between monuments and sculptures? Barlow’s works are often made to be site-specific. In the exhibition, how would you describe the artworks’ relationships with the spaces they are shown in? Do you think sculptures activate places, or are sculptures activated by the spaces they occupy? How does the exhibition help you define the difference between sculpture and installation? Creative activities: During your visit The artist often worked with a team of studio assistants to make her art. Using materials such as paper, string, pipe cleaners and fabric, work together in small groups to make a collaborative sculpture that is inspired by something you see in the exhibition. What do you feel is more valuable in making an artwork, the process or the product? Working in pairs, one person wears a blindfold, and the other chooses a sculpture in the exhibition and starts describing it to their partner. Assist the person wearing the blindfold to draw from the description. Using only words, how can you accurately describe the experience of looking at one of Barlow’s sculptures to someone who can not? Negative space is the space that surrounds an object in space. Just as important as that object itself, negative space helps to define the boundaries of positive and negative space. Look through a viewfinder at the sculptures and rather than drawing them, try to draw the spaces around and in between them. Creative activities: In the classroom or at home Barlow often made site-specific works that respond to the environments and spaces they are exhibited in. Create an artwork that engages with a location of your choice. It could be your bedroom, your garden or your classroom. How could you make your sculpture so it fits into its surroundings? Think about the colors, materials and shapes you can find in your chosen location. The materials Barlow uses for her sculptures can be found in the everyday such as tape, paper and cardboard. Can you think of ways to recycle any unused items in your home?How would you manipulate this material to make your sculpture? Select one of Barlow’s sculptures and use pipe cleaners, fabric and paper straws to produce a 3D maquette of the shape. Use modeling clay, plasticine or Modroc to transform your maquette into a solid sculptural form. Decorate your sculpture with colors inspired by Barlow’s artworks in the show. Inspired by the Education Lab ‘Open Art School,’ design your own poster that responds to the question ‘Why is having an arts education important to you?’ Think about color, slogan, images, typography and font. Supplementary research 1 / 10


--- [Dame Phyllida Barlow | Artist | Royal Academy of Arts] ---
For more than 50 years, British artist Phyllida Barlow took inspiration from her surroundings to create imposing installations that can be at once menacing and playful. She created tactile, seemingly precarious sculptures that resonate with emotional intensity and the urgency of their creation. These constructions are often painted in vibrant colors and the means of their construction left visible, revealing their inexpensive, industrial materials: cardboard, fabric, plywood, polystyrene, scrim and cement. Barlow studied at Chelsea College of Art (1960 – 1963) and the Slade School of Art (1963 – 1966). She later taught at both schools and was Professor of Fine Art and Director of Undergraduate Studies at the latter until 2009. In 2011 Barlow became a Royal Academician and in 2015 she was made a CBE for her services to the arts in The Queen’s New Year Honours. In 2017, Barlow represented Great Britain at the Venice Biennale. She was made a Dame Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire in The Queen’s Birthday Honours in 2021. In February of 2019, Barlow created an entirely new exhibition in our Gabrielle Jungels-Winkler Galleries, which she conceived as her own interpretation of a residential cul-de-sac. By closing the exit door in the final room, Barlow forced the viewer to turn around and revisit each sculpture anew, from the other side. She created forests of seemingly precarious structures, exploring the full height of the gallery space with looming beams, blocks and canvases. Born: 4 April 1944 in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, United Kingdom Died: 12 March 2023 Elected RA: 26 May 2011 Elected Senior RA: 1 October 2019 Gender: Female Preferred media: Sculpture Phyllida Barlow RA 2019 Royal Academy of Arts, London, England 2018 Jupiter Artland, Edinburgh, Scotland 2017 British Pavilion, La Biennale di Venezia, Venice, Italy Turner Contemporary, Margate 2016 Kunsthalle Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland 2015 Nasher Sculpture Center, Dallas, USA Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh Lokremise, St. Gallen, Switzerland 2014 Tate Britain, London Hauser & Wirth, London Hauser & Wirth Somerset, Somerset 2013 Des Moines Art Center, Des Moines Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach Contemporary Art Society, London 2012 New Museum, New York Henry Moore Institute, Leeds Ludwig Forum für Internationale Kunst, Aachen Hauser & Wirth, New York 2011 Hauser & Wirth, London Kunstverein Nürnberg, Nuremberg, Germany 2010 Studio Voltaire, London V22, London BAWAG Contemporary, Vienna, Austria Tate, London Henry Moore Institute, Leeds Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh Hessel Museum, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson Museum Ludwig, Cologne Ludwig Forum für Internationale Kunst, Aachen Kunsthaus Zürich, Zürich Franzen, Brigitte (ed.), ‘Phyllida Barlow: Brink’, Cologne: Walter König, 2013 Phillips, Lisa, Carrion-Murayari, Gary [et al.], ‘Siege’, New York: New Museum, 2012 Le Feuvre, Lisa (ed.), ‘Essays on Sculpture: Bad Copies: the drawings of Phyllida Barlow’, Leeds: Henry Moore Institute, 2012 König, Kaspar, Trummer, Thomas D. (eds.), ‘Before the Law: Post-War Sculptures and Spaces of Contemporary Art’, Cologne: Museum Ludwig/Verlag der Buchhandlung Walther König, 2012 Munder, Heike, Trummer, Displaced Fractures. On the Break Lines of Architecture and its Bodies, Thomas D, Migros Museum für Gegenwartskunst, 2011 Phyllida Barlow and Fiona Macdonald, Phyllida Barlow and Fiona Macdonald, Coexist Publications, 2011 Christine Kintisch, Phyllida Barlow: STREET, BAWAG Contemporary, 2010 Kathryn Rattee and Melissa Larner, Nairy Bagramian & Phyllida Barlow, Serpentine Gallery and Koenig Books, 2010 Ronnie Simpson and Phyllida Barlow, Phyllida Barlow: STINT, Mead Gallery, Warwick Arts Centre, 2008


--- [Phyllida Barlow Examines the Art of Teaching] ---
Phyllida Barlow Examines the Art of Teaching The artist and Slade teacher discusses the past, present and future state of art schools in Britain The artist and Slade teacher discusses the past, present and future state of art schools in Britain Professor of Fine Art at the Slade School of Art in London, Phyllida Barlow has taught art since the late 1960s. Her former students include Rachel Whiteread, Bill Woodrow, Steven Pippin, Melanie Counsell, Keith Wilson, Douglas Gordon, Tacita Dean, Conrad Shawcross, Tomoko Takahashi and Angela De la Cruz. Barlow’s recent work emerges from a 40-year practice in which she has explored many of the inquiries of post-Minimalism: the effect of gravity on materials, the relation of the sculpture to the viewing space, the impact of added colour on our perception of a structure, the push-and-pull between total abstraction and a work’s ability to evoke the body. In the past three years her sculpture has achieved a new visibility with the publication of the monograph Objects For … And Other Things (Black Dog, 2005) and solo exhibitions at Baltic, Gateshead, the Bloomberg Space in London and Spacex in Exeter. Barlow makes her work from a range of materials, such as felt sheets, wooden pallets, polystyrene, red masking tape and foam boards. The sculptures are abstract and often absurd, and after construction many are painted in industrial and synthetic colours. Barlow tends not to preserve work once it is shown, instead recycling her materials to make the next set of sculptures. I have been a colleague of Phyllida Barlow’s for five years at the Slade School of Art, and in this interview we discussed her approaches to teaching in art schools. Mark Godfrey Can you tell me about your experience of art school as a student at Chelsea College of Art and Design and the Slade? Phyllida Barlow I was at Chelsea from 1960 to 1963 and the Slade from 1963 to 1966. I had no qualification from Chelsea because it was changing from the academic National Diploma in Design award to a fine art diploma. It was a very exciting time. Then I came to the Slade, and it was a three-year diploma course. In terms of today’s art education I don’t have any qualification that equals the current BA, MA or MFA. When I arrived at Chelsea, Lawrence Gowing was bringing in a lot of young successful artists, such as Patrick Caulfield, Ian Stephenson and John Hoyland. Henry Moore had been teaching sculpture, and when he left, Gowing brought in the sculptor George Fullard, who’d been badly wounded in World War II, which had an enormous impact on his own work and on his ideas about art education. He was a brilliant visionary. Within days of arriving he’d stirred up a hornets’ nest of intrigue, asking what a sculpture course, such as it was at Chelsea, might be. MG How had it been before he arrived there? PB We worked on the figure in clay, and the welding room was forbidden to women. Stone carving was taught in a very traditional way, as were all the sculpture skills; it was a skill-based school, which Fullard radically changed. MG In what way? PB He got rid of the life figure from the two sculpture studios and encouraged the use of salvaged materials. The King’s Road at that time was going through a radical transformation. All the leases came to an end some time in 1960 and ’61. Many of the old shops were being gutted to make way for the new boutiques like Mary Quant and Tuffin and Foale, so there was all this raw material just lying around. For Fullard the only use for a life class was if it was part of a process for thinking and examining what observation meant, not for creating a facsimile of what was in front of you. MG How were things when you arrived at the Slade? PB There was a feud going on between William Coldstream and the Head of Sculpture, Professor A. H. Gerard – both remarkable men in their own way. Gerard was very much about formal structures that could be discovered and visualized from nature. He was probably a very skilled carver, but I was in no mood for any of that. MG Were conservative pedagogical methods of any use to you? PB No they were not. At the Slade, we were told to work from the figure, it was compulsory. I wanted to re-invent what sculpture could be, to experiment with weird, non sculptural materials. It would have been easier to have made a complete break with sculpture altogether, in the way that Terry Atkinson was doing with his Fine Artz group, in relationship to painting. Because I was still working within the discipline of sculpture I was expected to comply rather than explore beyond the given formal and material boundaries of sculpture. So my first year at the Slade was depressing, but then the atmosphere became lively and rebellious. Larry Rivers did a residency, and Robert Rauschenberg visited. Thorold Dickinson, who was running the film course, was bringing in films that were completely ahead of their time and so different from the rigid language of sculpture and painting that was being taught. When I started teaching, it was film which inspired me most. MG When did you begin to teach? PB I got a job in 1966 at the Bristol School of Art and then went to Chelsea from 1967 to 1978. From the mid-to late 1960s to the early 1970s every art school was employing young tutors straight from art college. It was very exciting; groups like Art & Language were bubbling away, and lots of different art school models were being developed. By 1978 my work was idiosyncratic and unfashionable and I felt isolated. I had three children, so I left Chelsea and returned to teaching in 1983, now with five children, so I needed regular income. I got a job at Brighton with Alison Wilding, Edward Allington, Peter Randal-Page and Eric Bainbridge. It was the most brilliant year I’ve ever had teaching. MG What made it so brilliant? PB We believed that the course should be based on a critical presence – nothing new in that, but we emphasized scrutinizing the work as a group, where different points of view could flourish. From my point of view, I was also being educated by my colleagues, who were exhibiting internationally. I was surprised to get the job because I was completely unknown, 40 years old and at a fragile stage in my artistic development. The opportunity to work with these astonishing artists was beyond my wildest dreams and they have remained great friends and hugely important to me. MG Who were your students during that year at Brighton? PB They included Rachel Whiteread, Stephen Pippin and Lee Andrews who all went on to have fantastic success with their work. MG Where did you go then? PB I went to do a shared post at Camberwell in sculpture with a well-known artist, Brian Catling. The invitation was to change the content of the sculpture course, which we took very literally. Paul de Monchaux, the head of the sculpture course, had established an incredible course and was leaving. Our input seemed to rock the boat, in conjunction with Wendy Smith and John Hilliard running the painting area; and then Tony Carter joined and Stephen Johnson. We all injected completely new approaches into Camberwell, questioning what the subject, content and form of sculpture could be. MG So then you went to teach at the Slade, and it was divided into sculpture, painting and fine art media. It still is. How do you defend such a structure in a post-medium age? PB I can only defend it so long as those three disciplines come together as a debate, to explore why somebody is able to define their activity, for example, as painting, and to relate that to sculpture, film, video, photography, performance, etc. Artists borrow and steal from each other left, right and centre, and that’s what makes the debates come alive. Practical reasons can also make distinctions important because some processes require clean spaces, others require spaces where a mess can be made, some require walls, some require an open space, etc. Most students work on the cusp between disciplines. That is the most exciting place to be, conceptually and in practical terms: where painting comes off the wall, where sculpture becomes a projection, such as a film, video or slide, where projection becomes an object. MG What are the dangers for you of the art school courses that are not structured around mediums? PB In the past 20 years, many art schools have changed to courses that are not medium/discipline-specific. I think this departure gave way to an emphasis on subject-led work. Form has definitely been a non-starter. There has been a loss of understanding of the relationship between the work and the space it occupies. A kind of homogeneity has evolved where there can be an indifference to what the status of the work is once it has left the studio, or its place of manufacture, and to how and why and with what the work relates to within the space it occupies. The exhibiting space can become a conventional backdrop, rather than a potential for challenging the work and the viewer. In courses organised around medium or disciplines, discussions about the use of space are promoted, and these raise many other issues, including the contentious issue of art as commodity. The all-in-one fine art courses probably make sense, but might miss out on debates which the medium specific courses can shake up more effectively because issues are more blatantly exposed, less disguised. MG Do you think medium-based art degrees risk producing students who consider formal questions at the expense of attention to subject matter? PB Subject matter has dominated over form and content for some time, whatever the chosen discipline or medium. Knowing the subject of the work has been in the ascendance since the late 1980s. But things are changing. There is a surge of interest in making work in order to discover a subject. MG What do you regard as the role of the tutor in a one-on-one situation? PB It is essential to give myself up wholly to what the student has to say about the position they find themselves in, in relationship to their work, physically, emotionally, psychologically, socially, politically. It’s important that the student is encouraged to articulate their creative position. This is very different from group teaching which is becoming increasingly important in the form of group tutorials and seminars. MG What do you think is the role of the group tutorial? PB To enable students as a group to take on the formal and aesthetic issues of presentation, to understand its intentions and to question the status of the work: is it finished or a work in progress? Is it political? What are the implications of the work being placed, located in a particular way? And of course, who is the work for? A group offers up a diversity of responses which come from the students, where disagreements can open up the complexity of the discussion and not close it down with a single point of view. Also, I think group teaching can disrupt moral judgments, for example about hard work, or political correctness, as well as creative judgments, and develop a more investigatory approach. MG What do you do with students who can’t or won’t address the questions you just mentioned? I’ve heard you talk about the right of the artist not to write about their work. PB I think that if somebody comes on a fine art course, it has to be very clear that they’re part of a group, even if they want to operate as a loner. I don’t think everybody is able to articulate what they’re doing, but I think the ones who really find it difficult are very different from the ones who don’t want to or refuse and you have to find out why: it might be the beginning of developing a position, for example, where the work has to speak for itself. And then the question is: well, does the work speak for itself, or is this refusal to speak just defensive? MG When you see work in the studio that resembles work the student doesn’t know about, at what point is it appropriate for you to inform them? PB Straight away, because what they’re doing is contextualizing their work, and there should be as few nasty shocks when they leave art school as possible, such as realizing that their work is an unintentional pastiche of an artist’s work they never knew about. As tutors we must inform in all kinds of ways. But you have to be open to getting it wrong. Perhaps you thought the worked look like a John Bock or a Peter Doig, and then you realize, through discussion, that the student has been engaged with a totally different kind of process, with totally different references. MG At what point do you remember students having to take art history and theory seminars and writing essays? PB It was about 1969. But it was in a very different form to what is usually taught now. Stuart Morgan, that remarkable critic and observer of 20th-century art, spoke about being taught liberal studies – which is what history and theory courses were called then – in Brighton in the 1970s. One of the first student essays I remember seeing was delivered in a suitcase on wheels with a drawing of Donald Duck on it; when you opened the suitcase, it was like a jack-in-the-box, and the whole essay sprang out; it was a complete re-enactment of a Donald Duck cartoon, done as a critical work. MG So liberal studies were a component of the fine arts course, and the students were writing essays? PB Yes, but not just on the history of art, which was rather despised. MG Now we have a history and theory component at Slade. Do you see this as a necessary part of art school education? PB On the one hand I think that students need a history and theory component whether they are naturally good at it or not. But there are students whose interests lie in questioning the state of contemporary art, who might be better served presenting their critical processes in a different form: as a lecture, forum, seminar, performance, recording or documentary with greater emphasis on images than words. I think it is easy for academicism to creep in and yet, clearly, not all art students have this ability and they can become disadvantaged by the very system they have elected to join. MG How do you guard against that kind of establishment of orthodoxy among your students? PB Years ago I invited Richard Wentworth in to give the crit of the postgraduate course final exhibition. He sent all the students a postcard asking them to ‘name the orthodoxies that have influenced your work and your final exhibition’, and not a single student understood the question. At the time, the work of the YBAs was taken as an orthodoxy, but Richard suggested that the students had the opportunity to examine and challenge the very orthodoxies that the YBA phenomenon had created. Now slacker art seems to appeal to a lot of students, perhaps because it signals a very quick way of doing things, and it is economically viable, and do-able under all sorts of conditions including the bed-sit! But you can guard against orthodoxies by encouraging students to really interrogate what’s actually in front of them. MG Do you find students are increasingly directing their work towards commercially successful careers? PB By the early 1990s, the emergence of YBAs became a model for a certain kind of career ambition. These artists proved that you could make money out of your art, which of course other generations had not been able to do to that extent. At degree shows now, paintings and other wall-based work always sell quite well, but students have begun to assess and rigorously debate the limitations of commercialism. Degree shows are still filled with projections, performances, installations, which don’t tend to sell. Students also realize that financial success can be isolating and can remove an artist from knowing what is going on at a grass roots level, and there might be many surprises there with new ways of questioning and resourcing how to be an artist. Having said all this, it would be churlish not to celebrate a sale of work, and the possibility for students to recuperate the huge overdrafts they accrue. As someone who hasn’t made money commercially from my work, I encourage students to address questions relating to their futures outside art school. ‘Do you actually need a studio, because studios are expensive? Are you self-sufficient enough to actually get on with producing work in an economically viable way, and does this involve doing some God-awful job for three days a week?’ Economically it’s so tough to live in London and support yourself as an artist. There should be no snobbery at all about going on a teacher training course or something like that, which will give you an income to survive while you make your own work, albeit, in the little spare time you have. MG Are fewer artists going into teaching because they can be more easily supported by sales? PB When I started to teach, art schools were seen as a form of patronage. There was less emphasis on whether you showed your work or not: it was about having the space and time to make work within your own studio, and teaching afforded the means to do that. That whole culture of art schools being patrons has virtually disappeared without trace. A lot of artists who emerged at the YBA time said, ‘We’re not teaching; we’re going to sell’. But I think some of them have had to come back to teaching. The financial success they had in the early years has not sustained itself, and they are looking for jobs in art schools and bring a wealth of experience from that time, which is fascinating. MG One reason to teach is to replenish your ideas about art-making. Are there any particular instances you can tell us about of the impact of teaching on the development of your practice? PB I think the evolution of the physical has influenced me, and I think being wrong-footed always intrigues me. I once made the mistake of referring to Bruce Nauman’s work as pure sculpture and a student, Jasper Joseph Lester, went ballistic and said that you must never use the word ‘pure’ in relationship to the visual arts – it has fascistic connotations. I attempted to justify what I had said: in Nauman’s sculptures of the 1980s, there is no single, ultimate viewing position; they prompt you to keep on moving around, under and across them. But Jasper was right to challenge my use of the word and he made me think more clearly. MG What do you predict will happen to fine arts degree courses? PB One way I hope fine art degree courses might change is to be more inclusive, less didactic about what is good and what is bad art and to take risks with the applicants who could be offered places on fine art courses. Also, it is now critical and crucial to represent the cosmopolitan nature of a country like the UK within the student intake. Can a broader cross-section of society, culturally and economically, be tempted to apply to art schools? And what is meant by ‘non-western’? These are now very important issues, not just for art schools but for art as a whole. MG You’ve been worried about fine arts degree courses becoming too academic. What do you perceive as the problems with this? PB There’s a pressure on fine art courses to include PhD courses and that can emphasize an over-theoretical approach to art supported by the economical fact that PhDs are the cheapest courses to fund as they require the least support … a supervisor and two or three meetings per year, and funding raised by the student in question. Very different from the much more expensive BA courses which require a lot of support: tutors, technical advisors, studios, workshops etc. Too much emphasis on the theoretical can change the culture of fine art courses by the influence from the PhD culture. It’s seen hierarchically as though the PhD is the top with the BA or the foundation courses at the bottom. If there has got to be a hierarchy then it should be about how work is made, how it is to be shown, what it is examining, what questions it is provoking, what the nature of the experiment might be … these are issues which can be either adventurous or banal at any level. A PhD does not mean better art. In fact, it is often the opposite. MG If you were the head of an art school or the founder of a new art school where you didn’t have to answer to any university requirements yet had to award a degree, how would you assess a three-year BA course? PB Maybe by simply granting students a pass or fail for their degree result. Perhaps to get rid of degrees altogether and place greater importance on being able to fail, to understand that as a crucial and critical part of making work. An imaginative, challenging, politicized and contentious awareness of how to present work, not just as an exhibition but as particular to the requirements of the work, would, and is, a key issue of the art school process. If some students elected to be silent, I think that would have to be accommodated, and, as mentioned before, to be understood as a statement in its own right, or as a protest, an act of repudiation … a rare event in art schools now because the financial stakes are high and parents are implicated in the funding of their children’s higher education, which has put the brakes on single-minded acts of rebellion, so to speak. Parents are more likely to complain about their children’s degree result than the student. It is a bizarre situation with students terrified of failure. But an art school has a responsibility to enable students to become articulate and confident about what they are presenting, because that’s what they’ll need when they leave. MG Do you think that in the UK and internationally there are too many fine arts degrees creating too many artists? PB There’s a ‘stack ‘em high, sell ‘em cheap’ educational ethos being nudged into place. It probably has something to do with government statistics, trying to drive down the unemployment figures by keeping as many young people as possible in education for as long as possible. However, what is interesting is that, however remote and economically up against it a fine art course might be, you will still find exceptionally talented students on that course. Also, fine art courses have the potential to prepare students for more than a life as a visual artist. Traditionally art schools were, and perhaps still are, the seed-beds for all kinds of creative promise, for writers, musicians, film directors, performers, organizers, administrators, curators, critics, educationalists, teachers etc. It should not be under estimated what a rich resource an art school education can be. Main image: Phyllida Barlow, untitled: GIG, 2014, fabric, paper, cord, timber, paint, 3 × 5 × 14 m, ‘Revolution in the Making: Abstract Sculpture by Women, 1947-2016’, 2016, installation view. Courtesy: the artist; photograph: Fredrik Nilsen


--- [Phyllida Barlow (born April 4, 1944), British artist ...] ---
No content
