=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[RPDR All Stars 7: 10 Times That Jinkx Monsoon Showed They Were The ...]
Aug 16, 2022 · In episode 2, Snatch Game was the maxi challenge of the week. Intimidatingly, the queens had to play two characters in this legendary Snatch Game (one of the best episodes of All Stars 7). With all strong performances from the contestants, Jinkx's characters of Natasha Lyonne/Judy Garland and Trinty the Tuck's Luci/Leslie Jordan placed in the top 2. While Jinkx may not have the reputation as a ...
URL: https://screenrant.com/rpdr-all-stars-7-10-times-that-jinkx-monsoon-showed-they-were-the-queen-of-all-queens/

[Dave reacts to Jinkx Monsoon in Snatch Game as Judy Garland - RuPaul's ...]
As you may have seen, Jinkx Monsoon mentioned Dave during the All Stars 7 Snatch Game. Dave was Jinkx's partner during the season 5 make-over challenge when Dave famous said that he may have ...
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNk9Pq30mcM

[Drag Race All Stars 7's dramatic Snatch Game is one of best in show's ...]
May 20, 2022 · The queens of All Stars 7 poured their hearts out for a fantastic, intense Snatch Game. (World of Wonder) All Stars 7 has continued to serve up Drag Race excellence with a dramatic, hilarious Snatch Game – with, of course, a twist. Needless to say: There are spoilers for All Stars 7 episode two ahead so be warned!
URL: https://www.thepinknews.com/2022/05/20/rupauls-drag-race-all-stars-7-episode-2-recap-snatch-game/

['Drag Race': Snatch Game winners and the celebs they impersonated]
Jul 7, 2025 · Ginger Minj as Reba McEntire on All Stars 10; Onya Nurve as Eddie Murphy on Drag Race season 17; Jinkx Monsoon as Judy Garland on All Stars 7.
URL: https://www.out.com/gay-tv-shows/snatch-game-winners

[r/rupaulsdragrace - We truly were not worthy of Jinkx's performance.]
But between the two characters Trinity and Jinkx portrayed each, those two found pockets to lob comments back and were comedic brilliance.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/rupaulsdragrace/comments/uuqqdz/we_truly_were_not_worthy_of_jinkxs_performance/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [RPDR All Stars 7: 10 Times That Jinkx Monsoon Showed They Were The ...] ---
No content


--- [Dave reacts to Jinkx Monsoon in Snatch Game as Judy Garland - RuPaul's ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Drag Race All Stars 7's dramatic Snatch Game is one of best in show's ...] ---
Drag Race All Stars 7’s dramatic and hilarious Snatch Game is one of best in show’s herstory All Stars 7 has continued to serve up Drag Race excellence with a dramatic, hilarious Snatch Game – with, of course, a twist. Needless to say: There are spoilers for All Stars 7 episode two ahead so be warned! After a stunning first intro to the first-ever all-winners All Stars, the queens were feeling the heat. Snatch Game is the most iconic challenge in the Drag Race universe, and it’s rightly so a fan-favourite. So RuPaul obviously decided there was never a better time to raise the stakes and have the eight queens impersonate two celebrities each. We have some amazingly talented queens who killed it in previous Snatch Games. I’m, of course, thinking of The Vivienne’s impeachable – we mean, impeccable – Donald Trump and Jinkx Monsoon’s side-splitting portrayal of Little Edie. So twice the work, twice the funny – right? Well, yeah, for the most part. Unlike episode one, which seemed to take FOREVER to get to the challenge, episode two of All Stars 7 jumps straight into the Snatch Game prep. There were some unique choices like Shea Couleé deciding to take on TikToker Elsa Majimbo; Trinity the Tuck as Leslie Jordan; Yvie Oddly as the Boogeyman; and Jinkx as Natasha Lyonne. Honestly, the highlights of round one were Monét x Change’s Mike Tyson, who embodied his trademark lisp and word mix-ups. Raja was terrifying and beautiful as Wayland Parrott Flowers Jr’s iconic, hilarious puppet Madame. Trinity’s version of Satan was just as obnoxious as you’d expect and even answered that they’d worked on a hit called “Old Bottom Road” with Lil Nas X. Satan was definitely below Nas in that lap dance. I will say that Yvie Oddly’s performance as Rico Nasty wasn’t as strong as the other competitors, but Yvie knew it would be an uphill battle from the start. She said in the werkroom that she would be in trouble during the Snatch Game as she didn’t do well in the challenge during her season. But honestly, it’s all over in the second round as the queens are just overshadowed by Jinkx as the one, the only Judy Garland. Not only is Judy a beloved part of the LGBTQ+ community, but Jinkx just embodied the late actor. She even launched into a “filthy” story about a “sandwich” she was part of with Dean Martin and Frank Sinatra. Then Judy launched into a musical moment midway through the competition. Oh, and if you’re a fan of Leslie Jordan, you will just die for Trinity’s Snatch Game. Trinity just shot out joke after joke like being too short to get onto the chair and thirsting over Chris Hemsworth’s “hammer”. In the werkroom, the queens collectively agreed that Jinkx, Raja and Trinity were the ones to look out for this week. Trinity joked that she was excited “not to get a star” as Shea blocked her from getting a star last week. Jinkx even admitted to Monét that she’s going to play a strategy and block the queens who already have stars – so Monét and Shea. Monét looked terrified. We’re then transported to this week’s runway where the theme is the pleather principle – obviously trying to play off the shiny, artificial fabric. The outfits this week aren’t as fabulous as the royal lewks from episode one, but there are few complaints from the judges this week. Yvie’s anime-inspired look with giant, inflatable blue pigtails, and the tiny matching doll was just to die for. Of course, Raja served up true style – what we expect from the fashion queen – with a glam rock look complete with a giant red pleather coat and a blue piece underneath. Jinkx decided to go completely left field with a baby blue and bright pink gown that was very Mary Poppins slash Disney Princess. Shea wore a tight catsuit that channelled Michelle Pfeiffer’s Catwoman from the Tim Burton film Batman Returns. To the surprise and shock of absolutely no one, Jinkx and Trinity are at the top this week for their stellar All Stars 7 Snatch Game performances. The two queens battled it out in an amazing lip-sync battle to the death for Adele’s “Rumour Has It” – such a banger! But it was Jinkx’s song to lose as she stepped out in a perfect half-beehive like the British chart-topper and left everything on the stage. Trinity gave a good fight with some amazing moves, but it would have been a tragedy if Jinkx didn’t win this week. Like she professed in the werkroom, Jinkx decided to use big brain energy on All Stars 7 and blocked Shea. Honestly, it might be the right strategy to keep blocking the people who already had badges, stopping them from getting ahead too much. There are already some clear frontrunners as Shea, Monét, Jinkx and Trinity are giving their all. But will they burn out too fast in the competition? New episodes of RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars 7 air on Fridays on Paramount Plus.


--- ['Drag Race': Snatch Game winners and the celebs they impersonated] ---
When it comes to making RuPaul laugh, these queens understand the assignment. For several years, RuPaul's Drag Race queens have described the Snatch Game as the challenge that separates frontrunners from "filler queens." That long-standing perception has been falling flat over the years. In season 11, for instance, the top 2 queens of the entire season were the two worst performers in the Snatch Game and even had to lip sync for their lives that week — which led to a double shantay. There was also the disastrous Snatch Game of season 14, in which seven of the eight remaining queens bombed and prompted the next episode to be a Lip Sync Smackdown that could settle which of them would actually be eliminated. Yet, most Drag Race fans do remember how each queen did in the Snatch Game, and can often hold onto that perception of them based on how well or how poorly they did in the challenge. Generally speaking, losing the Snatch Game isn't a good look, while winning that challenge does propel a queen to be considered a real contender in the season. With the exception of Drag Race season 1 and All Stars 1, every single season of the original U.S. series has featured a Snatch Game. So, without further ado, let's take a trip down memory lane for an overview of Snatch Game winners on Drag Race and the celebrities they've impersonated. Tatianna as Britney Spears (Season 2) Tatianna impersonates Britney Spears in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 2. Logo TV Season 2 had the first-ever Snatch Game of the entire franchise, which meant that no one had any idea, or example, or blueprint for how to do well in the challenge. In a surprising turn of events, Tatianna's impersonation of Britney Spears was funny and believable, which gave her the edge to win the first Snatch Game of all time. Stacy Layne Matthews as Mo'Nique (Season 3) Stacy Layne Matthews as Mo'Nique in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 3. Logo TV Many queens didn't see Stacy Layne Matthews as a real contender throughout season 3, but her Snatch Game as Mo'Nique (in the style of Precious) was brilliant and really resonated with the judges. Chad Michaels as Cher (Season 4) Chad Michaels as Cher in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 4. Logo TV Chad Michaels walked into Drag Race season 4 as an absolute legend for being the best Cher impersonator in the world. The stakes were absurdly high for Chad to do well in the Snatch Game… But no need to fear! The queen still delivered a pitch-perfect Cher and rightfully won the challenge. Jinkx Monsoon as Little Edie (Season 5) Jinkx Monsoon as Little Edie in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 5. Logo TV The blueprint for how to play the Snatch Game on Drag Race was set by Jinkx Monsoon in season 5 with her impersonation of Little Edie (of Grey Gardens fame). Not only did Jinkx win, but she also re-invented the Snatch Game and showed queens how to do well in that challenge for several seasons to come. BenDeLaCreme as Maggie Smith (Season 6) BenDeLaCreme as Maggie Smith in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 6. Logo TV The Snatch Game of season 6 featured a fierce fight between BenDeLaCreme's Maggie Smith (in the style of Downton Abbey) and Bianca Del Rio's Judge Judy, but DeLa came out victorious in the end by surprising the judges with an unusual choice that turned out to be hilarious. Kennedy Davenport as Little Richard (Season 7 – a tie) Kennedy Davenport as Little Richard in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 7. Logo TV The first and only Snatch Game tie in a flagship season of Drag Race took place in season 7. Kennedy Davenport was one of the winners of that challenge after delivering an incredible impersonation of flamboyant musician Little Richard. It's also worth noting that this was the first-ever male character in the Snatch Game, which meant that the odds were stacked against Kennedy from the start. In any case, she went for it, and we couldn't stop laughing. Ginger Minj as Adele (Season 7 — a tie) Ginger Minj as Adele in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 7. Logo TV Ginger Minj, as Adele, was the other Snatch Game winner of season 7. Just like Kennedy Davenport's Little Richard, Ginger was incredibly funny and consistent throughout the entire challenge. This was a well-deserved tie — and not a cop-out from the judges — when taken into consideration how well both queens did in the episode. Bob the Drag Queen as Uzo Aduba and Carol Channing (Season 8) Bob the Drag Queen as Uzo Aduba and Carol Channing in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 8. Logo TV Bob the Drag Queen had not one, but two Snatch Game impersonations in season 8… And they were both incredible. Bob first did Uzo Aduba (in the style of her character from Orange Is the New Black), and then changed clothes to impersonate Carol Channing. To the surprise of literally no one, Bob won this Snatch Game, and it wasn't even close. Alexis Michelle as Liza Minnelli (Season 9) Alexis Michelle as Liza Minnelli in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 9. VH1 RuPaul had been waiting for someone to do Liza Minnelli in the Snatch Game for many, many years. Thankfully, Alexis Michelle finally gave Ru the full Liza With a "Z" experience in season 9. Though she faced some tough competition from other queens, Alexis still won the Snatch Game with her performance of the iconic Liza Minnelli. Aquaria as Melania Trump (Season 10) Aquaria as Melania Trump in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 10. VH1 As a lewk queen who struggled with public speaking sometimes, Aquaria wasn't the kind of contestant that viewers were watching out for in the Snatch Game. So imagine everyone's surprise when Aquaria's impersonation of Melania Trump in season 10 was literally hilarious and absolutely earned her the win. Silky Nutmeg Ganache as Ts Madison (Season 11) Silky Nutmeg Ganache as Ts Madison in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 11. VH1 Some people claim that Silky Nutmeg Ganache's Snatch Game performance as Ts Madison was just "Silky being Silky," but let's be honest: A lot of queens fumbled this challenge, and Silky was able to consistently make Ru and viewers laugh while staying in character. All things considered, Silky did win this Snatch Game fair and square. Gigi Goode as Maria the Robot (Season 12) Gigi Goode as Maria the Robot in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 12. VH1 It had already been groundbreaking when queens started to play male celebrities in the Snatch Game. Notably, Kennedy Davenport's Little Richard impersonation was the first-ever male character to win the challenge. The idea that Gigi Goode was going to impersonate a literal robot on the Snatch Game (not even just another human being from another gender) seemed way too far-fetched. And yet, Gigi murdered the Snatch Game of season 12 and won the challenge while playing a hilarious version of Maria the Robot. Gottmik as Paris Hilton (Season 13) Gottmik as Paris Hilton in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 13. VH1 Gottmik is another example of a fashion queen that viewers initially had low expectations about… At least when it came to doing well in the Snatch Game. Against all odds, Gottmik's impersonation of Paris Hilton was extremely funny and consistent, which earned her the win. DeJa Skye as Lil Jon (Season 14) DeJa Skye as Lil Jon in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 14. VH1 All but one queen did poorly in the Snatch Game of season 14. DeJa Skye's impersonation of Lil Jon gave her the win, whereas all seven of her costars landed in the bottom and had to lip sync for their lives in a special smackdown. As the Snatch Game winner of the season, DeJa got to watch all of the lip syncs from the comfort of a couch in the werk room. Loosey LaDuca as Joan Rivers (Season 15) Loosey LaDuca as Joan Rivers in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 15. MTV The queens were split into two groups to compete in season 15's super-sized Snatch Game. Loosey LaDuca, who was part of the second group, turned it out with her hilarious rendition of the late, great comedy legend Joan Rivers. Plane Jane as Jelena Karleusa (Season 16) Plane Jane as Jelena Karleuša in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 16. MTV Plane Jane doesn't pretend to be an angel who hates stirring the pot, but her haters were never able to say that she isn't talented in the art form of drag. From the looks to the mug to the accent to the overall performance, Plane Jane was an iconic Snatch Game winner with her impersonation of Jelena Karleuša in the season 16 Snatch Game. Onya Nurve as Eddie Murphy (Season 17) Onya Nurve as Eddie Murphy in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race season 17. MTV It do take Nurve to play actor Eddie Murphy on the Snatch Game, but Onya Nurve pulled that off and had us all laughing with this moment on Drag Race season 17. While it's safe to say that not that many queens saw it coming, Onya dominated that Snatch Game and was a shoo-in for the victory. Alaska as Mae West (All Stars 2) Alaska as Mae West in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 2. Logo TV Alaska's impersonation of Mae West on All Stars 2 is widely considered one of the best performances in Drag Race herstory. Though there was never any doubt that Alaska was a talented and hilarious queen, this performance has gone down as one of the best Snatch Game moments of all time. Katya as Björk (All Stars 2) Katya as Björk in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 2. Logo TV Who in their right mind would think about doing Björk as a funny celebrity character for the Snatch Game? Katya did, and it turned out to be one of the funniest and most epic impersonations in the herstory of the series. Along with Alaska, Katya was the other winner of this challenge on All Stars 2. BenDeLaCreme as Paul Lynde (All Stars 3) BenDeLaCreme as Paul Lynde in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 3. VH1 BenDeLaCreme is also a member of the two-time Snatch Game winner club. After blowing everyone away with her impersonation of Maggie Smith in season 6, DeLa did it again by bringing Paul Lynde to life on All Stars 3. Shangela as Jenifer Lewis (All Stars 3) Shangela as Jenifer Lewis in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 3. VH1 One N and one F. Shangela impersonated Jenifer Lewis in the All Stars 3 Snatch Game. For context, Shangela had been a big fan of Lewis for many years before they became friends. By the time Shangela competed on All Stars 3, she had all of Lewis' mannerisms and catchphrases on lock. Trinity The Tuck as Caitlyn Jenner (All Stars 4) Trinity The Tuck as Caitlyn Jenner in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 4. VH1 Playing Caitlyn Jenner in the Snatch Game of Love could've been very tricky, but Trinity The Tuck turned it out and was one of two winners of that challenge on All Stars 4. Not only did she nail Caitlyn's mannerisms and voice, but she also turned this (otherwise not very funny) woman into a hilarious Snatch Game character that we couldn't get enough of. Manila Luzon as Barbra Streisand (All Stars 4) Manila Luzon as Barbra Streisand in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 4. VH1 Manila Luzon is one of the supreme queens of camp in the Drag Race pantheon, so her choice to impersonate Barbra Streisand — and how well she did in the challenge — wasn't exactly a huge surprise to the fans. In any case, Manila hadn't ever won Snatch Game before, so this great performance on All Stars 4 still felt interesting and new to the fandom. Shea Couleé as Flavor Flav (All Stars 5) Shea Couleé as Flavor Flav in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 5. VH1 Shea Couleé playing a male character in the Snatch Game?! This drag powerhouse didn't come to All Stars 5 to play… She came to slay! And that included this phenomenal Snatch Game impersonation of Flavor Flav that's gone down in Drag Race herstory. Ginger Minj as Phyllis Diller (All Stars 6) Ginger Minj as Phyllis Diller in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 6. Paramount+ Ginger Minj won her second Snatch Game with an impersonation of Phyllis Diller for the Snatch Game of Love on All Stars 6. No one was all that surprised that Ginger did so well in the challenge, even though she did compete on All Stars 2 and didn't live up to the best performances of the week during that season. Nonetheless, this iconic comedian was re-introduced to younger Drag Race audiences, and you gotta love Ginger for that. Jinkx Monsoon as Judy Garland (All Stars 7) Jinkx Monsoon as Judy Garland in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 7. Paramount+ All Stars 7, the all-winners season of Drag Race, challenged each of the queens to impersonate two celebrities instead of just one. Jinkx Monsoon brought Natasha Lyonne to life in the first round of this Snatch Game, and then blew everyone away with her god-tier performance as Judy Garland in round 2. Jinkx's Snatch Game performance — and win — on All Stars 7 has certainly topped her own herstory-making stint as Little Edie in season 5, and is considered by many fans to be the greatest Snatch Game character of all time. Trinity The Tuck as Leslie Jordan (All Stars 7) Trinity The Tuck as Leslie Jordan in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 7. Paramount+ Trinity The Tuck's two performances in the all-winners edition of Snatch Game included Lucifer (for round 1) and Leslie Jordan (for round 2). Though there were so many iconic moments of Trinity as Lucifer, she truly had us laughing out loud while embodying the beloved Leslie Jordan, who is unfortunately no longer with us. This was Trinity's second Snatch Game win in the Drag Race franchise, following her victory as Caitlyn Jenner on All Stars 4. Jimbo as Shirley Temple (All Stars 8) Jimbo as Shirley Temple in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 8. Paramount+ Between her clown training and drag career, Jimbo knows a thing or two about being funny and "letting go" as a performer. She is also an expert on pushing the envelope and giving people a different perspective on characters — presenting them in an unusual way that always ends up being entertaining, unexpected, and original. As an overgrown Shirley Temple in the Snatch Game of All Stars 8, Jimbo steamrolled the competition and earned high praise from the judging panel. Gottmik as Pal (All Stars 9) Gottmik as Pal in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 9. Paramount+ Gottmik impressed the judges and the fans with her hilarious performances in acting challenges, comedy challenges, and the Snatch Game of season 13, too. Things weren't different on All Stars 9, even though Gottmik chose to impersonate a literal dog for the Snatch Game of Love. Just like she did with Paris Hilton for the season 13 Snatch Game, Gottmik created an intricate and interesting character for Pal that felt like a person we had all known all along. Fully-realized realness! Nina West as Liberace (All Stars 9) Nina West as Liberace in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 9. Paramount+ Many fans felt like Nina West's performance during her first Snatch Game, in season 11, deserved much more praise than it received. Thankfully, this powerhouse queen returned to All Stars 9 with a vengeance and won this Snatch Game of Love with her performance as Liberace. Ginger Minj as Reba McEntire (All Stars 10) Ginger Minj as Reba McEntire in the Snatch Game of RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars season 10. Paramount+ As a competitor on All Stars 10 — otherwise known as the first Tournament of All Stars in the Drag Race franchise — Ginger Minj won the Snatch Game yet again with her impersonation of Reba McEntire. With this challenge win, Ginger became the first queen in Drag Race herstory to win the Snatch Game three times.


--- [r/rupaulsdragrace - We truly were not worthy of Jinkx's performance.] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/rupaulsdragrace Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to rupaulsdragrace r/rupaulsdragrace • TheBravoVariant SPOILER We truly were not worthy of Jinkx’s performance. Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 21, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation
