=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Battle of Austerlitz - Wikipedia]
The Battle of Austerlitz (2 December 1805 [g]), also known as the Battle of the Three Emperors, was one of the most important military engagements of the Napoleonic Wars. [17] The battle occurred near the town of Austerlitz in the Austrian Empire (now Slavkov u Brna in the Czech Republic).
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Austerlitz

[Austerlitz - Virtual Mirage]
Dec 2, 2023 · Napoleon’s words to his troops after the battle were full of praise: Soldats! Je suis content de vous (English: Soldiers! I am pleased with you). The Emperor provided two million golden francs to the higher officers and 200 francs to each soldier, with large pensions for the widows of the fallen.
URL: https://www.virtualmirage.org/austerlitz/

[Proclamation after Austerlitz, 12 Frimaire, An XIV (3 ...]
Soldiers! I am pleased with you. On the day of Austerlitz, you lived up to all my expectations of your bravery and boldness; you have decked your eagles with a glory that shall never die. In less than four hours, an army of one hundred thousand men, commanded by the emperors of Russia and Austria, has either been cut to pieces or dispersed. Those who escaped your steel drowned in the lakes ...
URL: https://www.napoleon.org/en/history-of-the-two-empires/articles/proclamation-after-austerlitz-12-frimaire-an-xiv-3-december-1805/

[Best Quotes for Napoléon Bonaparte]
— Before the Battle of the Pyramids. "Soldats, je suis content de vous ! ... "note Soldiers, I am satisfied. You have, on this day at Austerlitz, fulfilled ...
URL: https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Quotes/NapoleonBonaparte

[Napoleon's Addresses: The Austerlitz Campaign 1805]
The Napoleon Series > > napoleon
URL: https://www.napoleon-series.org/research/napoleon/speeches/c_speeches5.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Battle of Austerlitz - Wikipedia] ---
The Battle of Austerlitz (2 December 1805), also known as the Battle of the Three Emperors, was one of the most important military engagements of the Napoleonic Wars. The battle occurred near the town of Austerlitz in the Austrian Empire (now Slavkov u Brna in the Czech Republic). Around 158,000 troops were involved, of which around 24,000 were killed or wounded.
The battle is often cited by military historians as one of Napoleon's tactical masterpieces, in the same league as other historic engagements like Hannibal's Cannae (216 BC) or Alexander the Great's Gaugamela (331 BC). The military victory of Napoleon's Grande Armée at Austerlitz brought the War of the Third Coalition to an end, with the Peace of Pressburg signed by the French and Austrians later in the month. These achievements did not establish a lasting peace on the continent. Austerlitz had driven neither Russia nor Britain, whose armies protected Sicily from a French invasion, to settle.
After eliminating an Austrian army during the Ulm campaign, French forces seized Vienna in November 1805. The Austrians avoided further conflict until the arrival of the Russians, who helped increase the allied numbers. Napoleon sent his army north in pursuit of the Allies, but then ordered his forces to retreat so he could feign a grave weakness to lure the Allies into thinking that they were facing a weak army, while it was in fact formidable. Napoleon gave every indication in the days preceding the engagement that the French army was in a pitiful state, even abandoning the dominant Pratzen Heights near Austerlitz. He deployed the French army below the Pratzen Heights and weakened his right flank, enticing the Allies to launch an assault there to roll up the French line. The French Emperor meanwhile hid the main army in dead ground. Napoleon's plan was based on the hope that Marshal Davout and his III Corps would arrive soon on their way from Vienna. A forced march by Davout plugged the gap left by Napoleon just in time. Davout's men stubbornly held their defensive positions under the onslaught of superior opponents. These positions represented both a natural and a fortified-structural barrier. The Allied deployment against the French right weakened the Allied centre on the Pratzen Heights, which was attacked by the IV Corps of Marshal Soult. Napoleon also exploited the weather: noticing the weakened Allied centre, he sent this corps just as the early morning mist – which contributed to the concealment of both Soult's corps and the Allied centre – was clearing. The mist at that moment had not cleared low enough to uncover Soult's advance. With the centre demolished, the French swept through both flanks and routed the Allies, which enabled the French to capture thousands of prisoners.
Remarkably, the pleiad of Russian military commanders nurtured by the great general Alexander Suvorov (1730–1800) – including Mikhail Kutuzov, Pyotr Bagration, Mikhail Miloradovich, Nikolay Kamensky, Sergei Kamensky, Peter Wittgenstein and Friedrich (Fyodor) von Buxhoeveden – was decisively defeated at Austerlitz. The blame for the Allied disaster initially lies with the supreme commander Emperor Alexander I of Russia, who, together with his Austrian chief of staff Franz von Weyrother, fell into Napoleon's "trap" at Austerlitz, first accepting encounter on the battlefield chosen by the French Emperor, and then being encircled in the direction of the left Allied flank. The Allied disaster significantly shook the will of Emperor Francis to further resist Napoleon. France and Austria agreed to an armistice immediately, and the Treaty of Pressburg followed shortly after, on 26 December. Pressburg took Austria out of both the war and the Coalition while reinforcing the earlier treaties of Campo Formio and of Lunéville between the two powers. The treaty confirmed the Austrian loss of lands in Italy and Bavaria to France, and in Germany to Napoleon's German allies. It also imposed an indemnity of 40 million francs on the Habsburgs and allowed the fleeing Russian troops free passage through hostile territories and back to their home soil. Critically, victory at Austerlitz permitted the creation of the Confederation of the Rhine, a collection of German states intended as a buffer zone between France and the eastern powers, Austria, Prussia, and Russia. The Confederation rendered the Holy Roman Empire virtually useless, so Francis dissolved the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, but remained as emperor of Austria. Prussian worries about the growing French influence in Central Europe led to the War of the Fourth Coalition in 1806.




--- [Austerlitz - Virtual Mirage] ---
Context and Precedence: Europe had been in turmoil since the start of the French Revolutionary Wars in 1792. In 1797, after five years of war, the French Republic subdued the First Coalition, an alliance of Austria, Prussia, Great Britain, Spain, and various Italian states. A Second Coalition, led by Britain, Austria, and Russia, and including the Ottoman Empire, Portugal, and Naples, was formed in 1798. Still, by 1801, this, too, had been defeated, leaving Britain the only opponent of the new French Consulate. In March 1802, France and Britain agreed to end hostilities under the Treaty of Amiens. In May 1803, Britain declared war on France again. This day in history, December 2, 1805 After eliminating an Austrian army during the Ulm campaign, French forces seized Vienna in November 1805. The Austrians avoided further conflict until the arrival of the Russians, who helped increase the allied numbers. Napoleon sent his army north in pursuit of the Allies but then ordered his forces to retreat so he could feign a grave weakness to lure the Allies into thinking that they were facing a weak army but, in reality, a formidable one. Napoleon gave every indication in the days preceding the engagement that the French army was in a pitiful state, even abandoning the dominant Pratzen Heights near Austerlitz. He deployed the French army below the Pratzen Heights and deliberately weakened his right flank, enticing the Allies to launch a major assault there in the hopes of rolling up the French line. A forced march from Vienna by Marshal Davout and his III Corps plugged the gap left by Napoleon just in time. Meanwhile, the heavy Allied deployment against the French right weakened the Allied center on the Pratzen Heights, which the IV Corps of Marshal Soult viciously attacked. With the Allied center demolished, the French swept through both enemy flanks and sent the Allies fleeing chaotically, capturing thousands of prisoners in the process. Few troops drowned in the ponds in the area despite the depiction in the feature film Napoleon. This is how Ridley Scott saw it: Allied casualties stood at about 36,000 out of an army of 89,000, representing about 38% of their effective forces. The French lost around 9,000 out of an army of 66,000, or about 13% of their forces. The Allies also lost some 180 guns and about 50 standards. The great victory was met by sheer amazement and delirium in Paris, where the nation had been teetering on the brink of financial collapse just days earlier. Napoleon’s words to his troops after the battle were full of praise: Soldats! Je suis content de vous (English: Soldiers! I am pleased with you). The Emperor provided two million golden francs to the higher officers and 200 francs to each soldier, with large pensions for the widows of the fallen. Orphaned children were adopted by Napoleon personally and were allowed to add “Napoleon” to their baptismal and family names.


--- [Proclamation after Austerlitz, 12 Frimaire, An XIV (3 ...] ---
Soldiers! I am pleased with you. On the day of Austerlitz, you lived up to all my expectations of your bravery and boldness; you have decked your eagles with a glory that shall never die. In less than four hours, an army of one hundred thousand men, commanded by the emperors of Russia and Austria, has either been cut to pieces or dispersed. Those who escaped your steel drowned in the lakes. Forty standards, the standards of the Russian imperial guard, one hundred and twenty cannon, twenty generals, more than thirty-thousand prisoners… these are the results of this day of eternal renown. This much vaunted infantry – and indeed greater in number – could not withstand your onset; from now on you have no rivals, no one to fear. See how, in two months, this third coalition has been beaten and unstrung; peace cannot be far off. But, as I promised to my people before crossing the Rhine, I shall not agree a peace unless it provides us with guarantees and ensures that our allies are recompensed. Soldiers, when the French people placed the imperial crown upon my head, I entrusted myself to you so as to keep that crown ever in that high state of glory which alone could give it value for me. However, at the same time, our enemies sought to destroy and dishonour it! And they wanted to force me to place that iron crown – won by the blood of so many Frenchmen – on the head of one of our cruellest enemies! These were indeed overweening and senseless schemes which, on the very anniversary day of the coronation of your emperor, you have nullified and confounded! You have taught them the lesson that it is easier to challenge and threaten us than to beat us. Soldiers, when everything required for the happiness and prosperity of our fatherland has been accomplished, I shall bring you back to France; there you will be the object of my tenderest attentions. My people will welcome you back with delight, and all you will have to say is «I was at the Battle of Austerlitz», for them to reply, «There goes a brave man». Proclamation after Austerlitz, 12 Frimaire, An XIV (3 December, 1805) Author(s) : NAPOLEON I


--- [Best Quotes for Napoléon Bonaparte] ---
Quotes by and quotes about Napoléon Bonaparte. Quotes by Napoleon "A revolution can be neither made nor stopped. The only thing that can be done is for one of several of its children to give it a direction by dint of victories." "A Republic of thirty million men!...With our manners, our vices! How is it possible? That is a fancy of which the French are at present full, but it will pass away like all the others. What they want is Glory and gratified Vanity; but as for Liberty, they do not understand what it means." "Between the old monarchies and a young republic, the spirit of hostility must always exist. In the existing situation every treaty of peace means to me no more than a brief armistice: and I believe that while I fill my present office, my destiny is to be fighting almost continuously." "Between the old monarchies and a young republic, the spirit of hostility must always exist. In the existing situation every treaty of peace means to me no more than a brief armistice: and I believe that while I fill my present office, my destiny is to be fighting almost continuously." — Upon ascension as First Consul, 1802 "Soldats, songez que du haut de ces monuments, quarante siècles vous contemplent".note — Before the Battle of the Pyramids. "Soldats, je suis content de vous ! Vous avez à la journée d'Austerlitz justifié tout ce que j'attendais de votre intrépidité...Soldats, lorsque tout ce qui est nécessaire pour assurer le bonheur et la prospérité de votre Patrie sera accompli, je vous ramènerai en France. Là, vous serez l'objet de mes plus tendres sollicitudes. Mon peuple vous recevra avec joie et il vous suffira de dire "J'étais à la bataille d'Austerlitz" pour qu'on vous réponde "Voilà un brave !"note — Proclamation after the Battle of Austerlitz: December 3, 1805 "I’ve seen one of your orders of the day to the soldiers that will make you the laughing stock of Germany, Austria and France. Have you no friend to tell you a few home truths? ... Forget your ministers, your ambassadors and your finery. You have to sleep out in the vanguard with your men, sit on your horse, day and night. March in the vanguard, so you know what’s going on ... And for God’s sake have the wit to write and speak correctly!" — Letter to his brother Jérôme Bonaparte, who he appointed King of Westphalia Wherever wood can swim, there I am sure to find this flag of England. — On boarding the Bellerophon, after his defeat at Waterloo. There is but a step from the sublime to the ridiculous. Go, sir, gallop; ask me for anything but time. You would make a ship sail against the winds and currents by lighting a bonfire under her deck? I have no time for such nonsense. — To Robert Fulton, who was trying to convince him to buy his steamship. "After me, the Revolution — or, rather the ideas which formed it — will resume their course. It will be like a book from which the marker is removed, and one starts to read again at the page where one left off." — After the Battle of Leipzig, 1813.note "I may have been called 'a modern Attila' and 'a Robespierre on horseback' by the other sovereigns; but if they would search their hearts, they would know better. Had I really been that, I would perhaps be reigning still. But one thing is certain: had I been such, they all would long since have ceased to reign." — At Saint-Helena. Élevez-nous des croyantes et non des raisonneuses (Bring up for us believers and no thinkers) — His instructions for a school for girls. "I truly loved my Josephine, but I did not respect her." "History is a set of lies agreed upon." Quotes about Napoleon What a pity that the man wasn't lazy. — Talleyrand "There is only one man in France...One sees a fog that is called a nation, but one can’t distinguish anything. He alone is front and center." — Madame Germaine de Staël "The opponent of the Austrians and Prussians may be described in a few words as the very god of war himself." — Carl von Clausewitz, On War "I saw the Emperor - this world-spirit - go out from the city to survey his realm." — G. W. F. Hegel "In this age, in past ages, in any age: Napoleon." — The Duke of Wellington, when he was asked whom he considered the greatest soldier of the age "[Napoleon] was amongst the worthiest of individuals." "His downfall was gigantic, proportionally to his glory. Both befuddle the mind. When in the presence of such a prodigious career, judgement is split between blame and admiration. Napoleon left France crushed, invaded, emptied of blood and courage, smaller than when he grabbed it, condemned to bad borders the vice of which hasn't been fixed, exposed to Europe's mistrust, all of which the country still carried the burden of a century later. But one shouldn't rule out the prestige he gave to our armies, the awareness he gave once and for all to the nation of its incredible aptitudes at war and the renown of power the homeland gained, the echo of which still reverberates." "He [Napoleon] had destroyed only one thing: the Jacobin Revolution, the dream of equality, liberty and fraternity, and of the people rising in its majesty to shake off oppression. It was a more powerful myth than his, for after his fall it was this, and not his memory, which inspired the revolutions of the nineteenth century, even in his own country." — Eric Hobsbawm "To begin with, he fascinates me. His life has been described as an epic poem of action. His sex life was worthy of Arthur Schnitzler. He was one of those rare men who move history and mold the destiny of their own times and of generations to come — in a very concrete sense, our own world is the result of Napoleon, just as the political and geographic map of postwar Europe is the result of World War Two. And, of course, there has never been a good or accurate movie about him. Also, I find that all the issues with which it concerns itself are oddly contemporary — the responsibilities and abuses of power, the dynamics of social revolution, the relationship of the individual to the state, war, militarism, etc., so this will not be just a dusty historic pageant but a film about the basic questions of our own times, as well as Napoleon's. But even apart from those aspects of the story, the sheer drama and force of Napoleon's life is a fantastic subject for a film biography. Forgetting everything else and just taking Napoleon's romantic involvement with Josephine, for example, here you have one of the great obsessional passions of all time." — Stanley Kubrick, on his fascination with Napoleonnote In fiction Some men live and die in the shade of their olive trees; some change the world, even in defeat. My enemies are many. My equals are none... — Napoleon, Napoleon: Total War Oh, Napoleon was the fightin'-est man you ever knew, And everyone he fought with, he subdued— But the King-a and the Queen-a Sent him off to St. Helena, Just because they didn't like his Attitude! And everyone he fought with, he subdued— But the King-a and the Queen-a Sent him off to St. Helena, Just because they didn't like his Attitude! —Katnip Kollege (1939) Who pulls the strings, who makes the deals? Stands 5'3" in Cuban heels? Who gets all the girls, Then wakes up again? Who would rule the world If it only knew his name? Stands 5'3" in Cuban heels? Who gets all the girls, Then wakes up again? Who would rule the world If it only knew his name? Narrator: Wait, who's in charge of France now? Napoleon: (singing) Meeeee! Narrator: ...said Napoleon, trying to take over Europe. Luckily, they banished him to an island. Chorus: (singing) But he came back! Narrator: Luckily, they banished him to another island. Napoleon: (singing) Meeeee! Narrator: ...said Napoleon, trying to take over Europe. Luckily, they banished him to an island. Chorus: (singing) But he came back! Narrator: Luckily, they banished him to another island. Boney was a warrior, a way-yay-yah A warrior, a terrier, Jean Francois For Boney fought the Prush-i-ans, a way-yay-yah And then he fought the Rush-i-ans, Jean Francois Boney went to Moscow, a way-yay-yah Across the Alps and frost and snow, Jean Francois Moscow was a-blazin', a way-yay-yah And Boney was a-ragin', Jean Francois Boney went to Elba, a way-yay-yah And Boney he come back again, Jean Francois Boney went to Waterloo, a way-yay-yah And there he got his overthrew, Jean Francois Boney he was sent away, a way-yay-yah Away in Saint Helena, Jean Francois Boney broke his heart and died, a way-yay-yah Away in Saint Helena, Jean Francois Boney was a warrior, a way-yay-yah A warrior, a terrier, Jean Francois A warrior, a terrier, Jean Francois For Boney fought the Prush-i-ans, a way-yay-yah And then he fought the Rush-i-ans, Jean Francois Boney went to Moscow, a way-yay-yah Across the Alps and frost and snow, Jean Francois Moscow was a-blazin', a way-yay-yah And Boney was a-ragin', Jean Francois Boney went to Elba, a way-yay-yah And Boney he come back again, Jean Francois Boney went to Waterloo, a way-yay-yah And there he got his overthrew, Jean Francois Boney he was sent away, a way-yay-yah Away in Saint Helena, Jean Francois Boney broke his heart and died, a way-yay-yah Away in Saint Helena, Jean Francois Boney was a warrior, a way-yay-yah A warrior, a terrier, Jean Francois —"Boney Was a Warrior", traditional English sea shanty, as performed by Paul Clayton Tsar Of All Russias"? He's got too much of them for my taste, I could grab a few from him. — Napoleon, Austerlitz


--- [Napoleon's Addresses: The Austerlitz Campaign 1805] ---
Proclamation to the Troops on the Commencement of the War of the Third Coalition: September, 1805 Address to the Austrians, after the Fall of Ulm: October 1805 Address to the Troops after the War of the Third Coalition: October, 1805 Proclamation to the Soldiers before the Battle of Austerlitz: December 1, 1805 Proclamation after the Battle of Austerlitz: December 3, 1805 Address to the Soldiers on the Signing of Peace with Austria: December 26, 1805 Bibliography | Napoleon's Addresses: The Austerlitz Campaign 1805 Compiled By Tom Holmberg Proclamation to the Troops on the Commencement of the War of the Third Coalition: September, 1805 "Soldiers: The war of the third coalition is commenced. The Austrian army has passed the Inn, violated treaties, attacked and driven our ally from his capital. You yourselves have been obliged to hasten, by forced marches, to the defence of our frontiers. But you have now passed the Rhine; and we will not stop now till we have secured the independence of the Germanic body, succored our allied, and humbled the pride of our unjust assailants. We will not again make peace without a sufficient guarantee! Our generosity shall not again wrong our policy. Soldiers, your Emperor is among you! You are but the advanced guard of the great people. If it is necessary they will all rise at my call to confound and dissolve this new league, which has been created by the malice and gold of England. But, soldiers, we shall have forced marches to make, privations of every kind to endure. Still, whatever obstacles may be opposed to us, we will conquer them; and we will never rest until we have planted our eagles on the territory of our enemies!" Address to the Austrians, after the Fall of Ulm: October 1805 "Gentlemen: War has its chances. Often victorious, you must expect sometimes to be vanquished. Your master wages against me an unjust war. I say it candidly, I know not for what I am fighting, I know not what he requires of me. He has wished to remind me that I was once a soldier. I trust he will find that I have not forgotten my original avocation. I want nothing on the continent, I desire ships, colonies, and commerce. Their acquisition would be as advantageous to you as to me." Address to the Troops after the War of the Third Coalition: October, 1805 "Soldiers of the Grand Army: In a fortnight we have finished the entire campaign. What we proposed to do has been done. We have driven the Austrian troops from Bavaria, and restored our ally to the sovereignty of his dominions. That army, which, with equal presumption and imprudence, marched upon our frontiers, is annihilated. But what does this signify to England? She has gained her object. We are no longer at Boulogne, and her subsidy will be neither more nor less. Of a hundred thousand men who composed that army, sixty thousand are prisoners. They replace our conscripts in the labour of agriculture. Two hundred pieces of cannon, the whole park of artillery, ninety flags, and all their generals are in our power. Fifteen thousand men only have escaped. Soldiers: I announced to you the result of a great battle; but, thanks to the ill-devised schemes of the enemy, I was enabled to secure the wished-for result without incurring any danger, and, what is unexampled in the history of nations, that result has been gained at the sacrifice of scarcely fifteen hundred men killed and wounded. But we will not stop here. You are impatient to commence another campaign. The Russian army, which English gold has brought from the extremities of the universe, shall experience the same fate as that which we have just defeated. In the conflict in which we are about to engage, the honor of the French infantry is especially concerned. We shall now see another decision of the question which has already been determined in Switzerland and Holland; namely, whether the French infantry is the first or second in Europe. Amongst the Russians there are no generals in contending against whom I can acquire any glory. All I wish is to obtain the victory with the least possible bloodshed. My soldiers are my children." Proclamation to the Soldiers before the Battle of Austerlitz: December 1, 1805 "Soldiers: The Russian army has presented itself before you to revenge the disasters of the Austrians at Ulm. They are the same men that you conquered at Hollabrunn, and on whose flying trails you have followed. The positions which they occupy are formidable. While they are marching to turn my right, they must present their flank to your blows. Soldiers: I will myself direct all your battalions. I will keep myself at a distance from the fire, if, with your accustomed valor, you carry disorder and confusion into the enemies' ranks. But should victory appear for a moment uncertain, you will see your Emperor expose himself to the first strokes. Victory must not be doubtful on this occasion." Proclamation after the Battle of Austerlitz: December 3, 1805 "Soldiers: I am satisfied with you. In the Battle of Austerlitz you have justified all that I expected from your intrepidity. You have decorated your eagles with immortal glory. An army of one hundred thousand men, commanded by the Emperors of Russia and Austria, has been, in less than four hours, either cut in pieces or dispersed. Thus in two months the third coalition has been vanquished and dissolved. Peace can not now be far distant. But I will make only such a peace as gives us guarantee for our future, and secures rewards to our allies. When everything necessary to secure the happiness and prosperity of our country is obtained, I will lead you back to France. My people will behold you again with joy. It will be enough for one of you to say, 'I was at the battle of Austerlitz;' for all your fellow citizens to exclaim, 'There is a brave man.'" Address to the Soldiers on the Signing of Peace with Austria: December 26, 1805 "Peace has just been signed by the Emperor of Austria. You have in the last autumn made two campaigns. You have seen your Emperor share your dangers and your fatigues. I wish also that you should see him surrounded by the grandeur and splendor which belong to the sovereign of the first people in the world. You shall all be there. We will celebrate the names of those who have died in these two campaigns in the field of honor. The world shall ever see us ready to follow their example. We will even do more than we have yet done, if necessary to vindicate our national honor, or to resist the efforts of those who are the eternal enemies of peace upon the continent. During the three months which are necessary to effect your return to France, prove the example for all armies. You have now to give testimonies, not of courage and intrepidity, but of strict discipline. Conduct yourself like children in the bosom of their family." Bibliography: Napoleon's Addresses: Selections from the Proclamations, Speeches and Correspondence of Napoleon Bonaparte. Edited by Ida M. Tarbell. (Boston: Joseph Knight, 1896.) [ More on Napoleon's Addresses | Napoleon Himself Index ] |
