=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

['Motherland: Fort Salem' Boss Breaks Down Those Major Finale Surprises ...]
May 20, 2020 · [Warning: The below contains MAJOR spoilers for the Season 1 finale of Motherland: Fort Salem, “Witchbomb.”] It was one surprise after another in Motherland: Fort Salem ‘s Season 1 finale.
URL: https://www.tvinsider.com/935196/motherland-fort-salem-season-1-finale-raelle-mother-alive-abigail-scylla/

[Motherland: Fort Salem Episode 10 Review - Witchbomb - Den of Geek]
May 21, 2020 · Motherland: Fort Salem's season 1 finale, "Witchbomb," is explosive, to say the least, and raises the stakes in a big way before the credits roll.
URL: https://www.denofgeek.com/tv/motherland-fort-salem-episode-10-review/

[Motherland: Fort Salem: Season 1 Episode 10 "Witchbomb" [Season Finale ...]
May 21, 2020 · Though, at Fort Salem, the bigger shock might be Anacostia letting Scylla go. However, that’s for her to discover in the confirmed second season. For now, it’s all about saving the Tarim witches, which is no easy task.
URL: https://wherever-i-look.com/tv-shows/motherland-fort-salem-season-1-episode-10-witchbomb-season-finale-recap-review-with-spoilers

["Motherland: Fort Salem" Series Finale Recap: The Last Song]
Aug 24, 2022 · It's a fight against time as Raelle's witch bomb ticks closer to going off in the series finale of Motherland: Fort Salem.
URL: https://www.autostraddle.com/motherland-fort-salem-series-finale-recap/

[Witchbomb | Motherland: Fort Salem Wiki - Fandom]
She turns around and it is revealed that the woman is Raelle's mother, Willa Collar. Willa tells Scylla, "You were supposed to bring me back my daughter." Cast ...
URL: https://motherland.fandom.com/wiki/Witchbomb


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ['Motherland: Fort Salem' Boss Breaks Down Those Major Finale Surprises ...] ---
‘Motherland: Fort Salem’ Boss Breaks Down Those Major Finale Surprises & Teases Season 2 [Warning: The below contains MAJOR spoilers for the Season 1 finale of Motherland: Fort Salem, “Witchbomb.”] It was one surprise after another in Motherland: Fort Salem‘s Season 1 finale. Just after witches Raelle (Taylor Hickson), Abigail (Ashley Nicole Williams), and Tally (Jessica Sutton) graduated from Basic Training, General Alder (Lyne Renee) took them to rescue the Tarim witches in hiding. But as they were leaving, everything went wrong: their ancient enemy, the Camaria, returned, and attacked, using warped versions of the witches’ own powers against them. In the battle, one of Alder’s biddies — who give their youth to extend the general’s lifespan — fell, and Tally took her place. Then Raelle was stabbed, and Abigail refused to leave her behind. But as the others flew off in the helicopter, some sort of magic (though they don’t use that word) was released from around them. Elsewhere, drill sergeant Anacostia (Demetria McKinney) let their Spree prisoner Scylla (Amalia Holm) go and followed her to one of the radical witches’ houses. But little did she know that Scylla was meeting with the one giving her orders all season: Willa, Raelle’s mother, who’s actually not dead. The series was renewed for a second season Tuesday, and creator Eliot Laurence couldn’t have been happier when TV Insider spoke with him only hours later. “It’s a really rich season,” he teased. “I’m so grateful to the network for letting us continue to play in this world.” Here, Laurence previews what’s next. What can you say about what happened to Raelle and Abigail, that entire ending, and what they’re doing as they walk? How much of that has to do with who they are as individuals and together? Eliot Laurence: The mystery of that will be unpacked through much of Season 2. The force that protected them did that for a very specific reason, and that has tendrils that lead to other stories — some stuff we’ve seen, some stuff will be completely new. But it is a major piece of new magic that the army has not seen before, so very quickly, there will be interest in forming it into the new super weapon of the army. The witchbomb storyline continues from that in a really exciting way. I really enjoyed watching their relationship grow over the season to Abigail getting off the helicopter. And saying, “I love you, s**tbird.” I still get choked up. They played it so beautifully, too. Just that last scene of them walking is just like, “Ooh, what did they do? Do they even know what they did?” Which they don’t. It’ll be a discovery for them, too, how to utilize this new power. Tally makes the decision to become one of Alder’s biddies, which says quite a bit considering their confrontation earlier. Yeah, Tally brought up a lot of concerns and deep questions to Alder, and Alder won her back with discussing that she’s a genocide survivor and had seen so much. Somehow Alder got Tally back in a really big way, because she made the big sacrifice. What went into that decision both for the character and from a story standpoint? How might this change what we see from the biddies going forward? It’s a big change. It’s one that Tally takes very seriously, and it’s one that Alder takes very seriously as well. It is impactful. Raelle’s mother is alive! How does that upend everything for Raelle, the show, and all the characters? Who knew or at least suspected she wasn’t dead? It’s a surprise to pretty much everybody. We’re going to learn why Willa did that in Season 2 and the circumstances that led to that massive defection from the army. It’ll be amazing to unpack that. It has a huge impact on Raelle’s trajectory for Season 2 and everybody. Basically what we’re doing is what we started doing with Scylla, which was putting a human face on the Spree. With the introduction of this new ancient enemy, we’re going to see both the army and the Spree realizing, “You know what? We’ve been fighting each other. There’s a more potent enemy that we both should be focusing on right now.” To see these legendary enemies come together is going to be really, really exciting. How will what we see from her compare to what we’ve heard? People talk about someone differently if they think they’re dead. Oh, everything’s going to be upended. There’s the cover story, and then there’s what actually happened, and when we learn that, it’s going to be really, really deep, and that’s early in Season 2 when we start to unpack that. Will we see parallels between Willa and Petra’s relationship and their daughters’? Absolutely. There’s more to uncover with Petra’s involvement, too. Leaving Season 1 in that particular way is providing us as writers with wonderful complications to unravel in Season 2, so we’ve been having so much fun in the writers room tracking all of these crazy threads and figuring out where they touch with other threads. The Camaria are already proving to be a formidable foe. They’re bad. They make the Spree look like, “Fine, let’s have the Spree over for dinner, no big deal, right?” They are really, really scary, and what’s particularly scary about them — and this is another thing that will connect some dots from Season 1 that were left unexplained — [is] they’ve created a way to semi-replicate, certainly not quite with the force of witches, some of the witches’ vocal powers and to use it against witches. It is a formidable enemy indeed because nobody’s ever cracked that before and they have a really, really, really huge threat level in Season 2 that galvanizes everybody to address them once and for all. Because in a lot of ways, even Petra says, “Oh, they were a myth from my childhood, like the boogeyman.” They drifted into legend and almost fakeness and people don’t even believe them anymore and that’s why Alder was in so much personal denial about their resurgence. I liked the visual of the device on the ground. Ooh, you caught it! That’s going to pay out big. Will we get flashbacks? We’re actually going to be in the past more. There’s a storyline that will literally take us into some U.S. history that we’ve never seen before and so yeah, we will get some more glimpses of the past. But the problem with the Camaria is they have a present in Season 2 that’s very, very terrifying. The stuff from the past is almost easier to look at because there’s hundreds of years but they actually are galvanizing and motivating people in the country to turn against witches. That story about her parents’ death really explained so much about who Anacostia is. Yes. I wanted to have Anacostia trick us with this plan, which she clearly has been thinking about for a while, to let Scylla out and watch where she goes. Part of it for Anacostia is she just wasn’t quite ready to throw Scylla away, but in Season 2, we’re going to learn there’s a deeper mission in terms of keeping tabs on Scylla. We have Anacostia and Scylla out in the world in Season 2, which is going to be so much fun to explore. A lot of viewers were curious, “What does it feel like to be in the outside world looking in at the witches?” We’re going to get to see a lot of that in Season 2. Scylla was supposed to be transferred. Are we going to see where she would have been going? Yes. There’s so much great stuff for Scylla, and I’m so excited because people love her so much. Scylla’s been quite the wild card, and she was surprised when Willa said she was supposed to bring her her daughter. Yeah, Willa didn’t fill her in on that little detail, and in one of the early scenes that I’m writing for the premiere, Scylla’s mad: “You’re going to send me in blind like that?” There’s some reckoning between Willa and Scylla, but soon enough, they’re going to realize everybody’s on the same page with this new enemy. How is Raelle feeling about Scylla? Raelle had to put a band-aid on everything, and in the last episode, we see her say to Anacostia, “Look, I know she was a lot, but wherever she’s at, I just hope they’re treating her well because she’s not all bad.” We know Raelle still has some feelings for her, but right now, she thinks she has put it all behind her, but it’s never that easy. Even though we start the season with them in very different places, they will always be feeling each other and have this magnetism that eventually pulls them back together. Their story is not complete. I’m not going to promise that they get back together necessarily, but their story has a lot more chapters to tell. How is the unit’s bond going to change? Everything changes in Season 2. They are in a new environment. They are divided in an interesting way. Now we have Abigail and Raelle bonded by this new power, and we have Tally as a biddy, so they start the season in very, very different places, so a lot of Season 2 will be about bringing them together and then tearing them apart again and then bringing them together. Their destiny as a trio is forever intertwined, so they will keep going together and face all of these new threats and challenges together. Will we see war college? Oh, yes. That is a part of Season 2, what’s next in their training. Clearly Alder has her eyes on them. She’s like, “They’re special, obviously, I’m going to take them on this secret mission.” Their training will intensify in Season 2 in really, really interesting ways. Will we see consequences for Alder’s “puppet” spell on the president? Oh, yes. Many, many consequences. That was meant to play — we see Anacostia’s reaction — as a very, very, very big deal for witches to do that, so we’ll learn more about why Alder chose to do that, and that actually relates to some of this historical stuff we’re going to flash back to. Are there any new characters you can tease? We have a whole new cast of characters. A lot of the same people will come back, but we have some new faces to shake things up and new teachers and love interests. Who’s going to have the best luck in love? It’s pretty rough and stormy at this point, but Abigail is going to grow a lot in terms of her relationships. Motherland: Fort Salem, Season 2, TBA, Freeform


--- [Motherland: Fort Salem Episode 10 Review - Witchbomb - Den of Geek] ---
Motherland: Fort Salem Episode 10 Review – Witchbomb Motherland: Fort Salem's season 1 finale, "Witchbomb," is explosive, to say the least, and raises the stakes in a big way before the credits roll. This Motherland: Fort Salem review contains spoilers. Motherland: Fort Salem Episode 10 As the title, “Witchbomb,” suggests, the season one finale of Motherland: Fort Salem is explosive! The cadets graduate basic training, but the Bellweather unit fails to secure admission into War College. Whether that’s Alder being petty, in retaliation for their attempt to sink her ship, or the natural result of their up-and-down performance throughout training, is hard to say. Alder is finally able to convince Khalida to save what remains of her people, and Khalida insists they bring Raelle —who saved her— and the others along. Petra, never one to be caught slippin’ — even after Alder snatches power right from under her— pulls strings to get Abigail into War College, sans Tally and Raelle, saying, “some lines are more important than others.” When Rae and Tally are about to set off on the mission without Abigail, she makes a badass last-minute appearance because she’s That Witch and the bonds she’s formed with her unit —and Adil, don’t sleep— are real. The evolution of Abigail’s, Tally’s, and Raelle’s relationship, the formation of their sisterhood, has been a joy to watch, and I appreciate the steady progression of their individual and communal identities throughout the season. When Alder’s team, which the girls are a part of, touches down outside Altai, Tally immediately senses a hostile force watching them. Elsewhere in the United States, the Spree attack a high school volleyball game, but instead of inducing a mass suicide or resigning innocent civilians to some other horrid fate, they compel the entire crowd to chant “our ancient enemy has returned.” When Alder and the team find and secure the last of the Tarim, they are ambushed by the Camarilla, who are equipped with appropriated Work (presumably the stolen voice boxes of their victims, brutal). Alder and co. do battle with the Camarillo in what isn’t the first, but is perhaps the most fully conceptualized, all-out magical brawl. We’ve seen throughout the season how weather magic can be used, but only in controlled environments, as a matter of practice. We see the cadets take out Spree vehicles, but again there is no active opposition. Here, wind strikes are levied at opponents who have the means and desire to kill, so there’s no need to hold back. Alder’s Biddies effectively disintegrate a man where he stands, showing us how truly dangerous and effective witches are in combat. Alder and her Biddies take several critical hits, and she begins to age. Without hesitation, Tally offers herself, preserving Alder and losing decades of her youth in the process. This is bittersweet because Tally’s view of the army, of Alder, has changed— warped by Alder’s recent actions. But Tally understands the need for someone like Alder, who survived and defeated the Camarilla centuries ago. Tally’s sacrifice means a lot in this moment and it’ll be interesting to see how her story continues, and how her relationship to the army evolve now that she is connected to Alder in this intimate and specific way. The entire season, the Spree have been The Big Bad, unambiguously hostile toward soldiers and civilians alike. But we’ve since come to learn that the Camarilla have been here all along, actively part of the narrative since at least the Bellweather wedding, and in episode 6, where their gruesome handy work is misattributed to the Spree. The Camarilla’s arrival in the finale episode is exhilarating. The writers of Fort Salem gave the audience something tangible to contrast our characters against with the Spree, while also laying the groundwork for a threat more existential and profound. Leaving the Camarilla to the end of the season was a smart move by the writers, giving us bigger stakes going into next season. When a Tarim youngster exits the relative safety of the extraction chopper, Raelle goes to retrieve them, offering up her protection charm to ease their fear. She manages to get them back to safety, but she’s struck, and left mortally wounded. Abigail leaves the chopper and attempts to heal her, but it drains her, and both of them, holding hands, lay at the mercy of the Camarilla, as Alder’s team begins to fly away in retreat. Abigail tells Raelle she loves her, which is meaningful because words, sound, is power— saying the words give them weight. But instead of “I love you, shitbird” becoming famous last words, Raelle and Abigail release an explosion of some sort that obliterates everything around them and keeps them alive? It is unclear, and when Tally asks Alder what happened, she has no answers, either. In “Up Is Down,” Raelle touches an ominous substance, or entity —as it seems to possess a consciousness— which leaves something of a residue on her finger. When she heals Khalida, the illness that she normally takes in just vanishes, and appears to be taken in by the substance instead. Now it seems as though the entity may have protected Raelle and Abigail from the Camarilla’s onslaught. We’ll have to wait for season two to learn more about the mysterious circumstances surrounding their miraculous survival, if that’s what it is. Back on base, Anacostia prepares Scylla for her imminent transfer to a Bad Place. Between the two of them, there is genuine respect and empathy, but they both have agendas. Anacostia, under the pretense of a growing conscience, lets Scylla go. Scylla, the whole fool, goes straight to a Spree safehouse, where she is followed by her liberator. Earlier in the episode, after graduation and just before deploying to her first mission, Raelle reads a letter from her mother given to her by her dad. We’re treated to a flashback of Willa Collar, saying goodbye and passing on her protection charm to her daughter… Seemingly aware she wouldn’t be returning from this tour. When Scylla enters the Spree safehouse, she’s met by a Spree leader, who is none other than Willa Collar, Raelle’s mom. Raelle’s grief is integral to her attitude toward serving, and I can’t wait to see what that looks like within this new context. Motherland: Fort Salem treats the entire first season as an introduction, and takes time to fully establish its characters and its world. The worldbuilding is rich where we’ve had the opportunity to experience it, but the insular nature of the setting leaves a lot unexplored outside of Fort Salem. That said, I leave the season confident that the writers know the world they’ve created and have a grasp of the internal rules and logic, even if the audience isn’t privy to it yet. “Witchbomb” is a solid stopping point that adeptly follows through with the character evolutions throughout the season. The finale maintains the season’s narrative momentum and ends with a satisfying climax that leaves Motherland: Fort Salem with a plethora of storytelling possibilities to carry into season two. The show has been picked up for a second season, so we can speculate and theorize about what’s coming next. What are you hoping to see when the show returns?


--- [Motherland: Fort Salem: Season 1 Episode 10 "Witchbomb" [Season Finale ...] ---
Motherland: Fort Salem: Season 1 Episode 10 “Witchbomb” [Season Finale] – Recap/ Review with Spoilers Endings mean new beginnings, and as we learn who has been hunting the Tarim, we get a handful of other surprises that pack a punch. Spoiler Alert: This summary and review contains spoilers. Additionally, some images and text may include affiliate links, meaning we may earn a commission or receive products if you make a purchase. Endings mean new beginnings, and as we learn who has been hunting the Tarim, we get a handful of other surprises that pack a punch. | Directed By | Steven A. Adelson | | | Written By | Eliot Laurence | | | Aired (FreeForm) | 5/20/2020 | | | Introduced This Episode | || | Willa | Diana Pavlovska | | | Edwin | Hrothgar Mathews | This content contains pertinent spoilers. From A Celebration To The Front Lines – Petra, Abigail, General Adler, Edwin, Raelle, Tally, Anacostia Time flies, doesn’t it? It seems like only yesterday Raelle was hemming and hawing about having to go to Fort Salem, Abigail was breaking up with some boy, and Tally’s mother was questioning why, when given a pass, she’d risk her life? Now they have graduated, and in retaliation for what they did, they end up on the front line. Yeah, General Adler figures out they nearly derided her leadership, and while Abigail, thanks to her mother, is given an out, as for Raelle and Tally? Well, Raelle gets to say her goodbyes to her father, Edwin, and preps for possibly dying. Edwin (Hrothgar Matthews) Making it so, despite growing close to the kids, Anacostia can only hope for the best and pray the girls aren’t made into sacrificial lambs as they are to head out to China. Second Chances – Anacostia, Scylla, Tally, General Adler, Adil, Khalida. Abigail, Raelle But, rather than abandon her unit and get a free, solo ride to War College, Abigail joins her team, and off they go to the Altai Mountains, to General Adler’s shock. Though, at Fort Salem, the bigger shock might be Anacostia letting Scylla go. However, that’s for her to discover in the confirmed second season. For now, it’s all about saving the Tarim witches, which is no easy task. Never mind Khalida having to stay behind, so her power is unavailable, but there is still the fact Tarim witches don’t trust outsiders, and there are a multitude of groups hunting them. Making Adil traveling with the crew to China a blessing, and smoothing things out with his community. However, while Adil’s presence and Raelle healing a child leads to cooperation of what’s left of the Tarim, Tally and General Adler butt heads. Specifically, Tally calls out all of her qualms with General Adler from making them murderers to putting them into battle before they were ready. Adler’s response? Well, she writes off all Tally says with noting Tally is young and hasn’t been in her shoes. Shoes that she has filled for 300 years, so from the death of the innocents to taking over the president, she feels justified through experience. Add in Abigail noting her mother saying, something akin to, “When the decisions are easy, that’s when you quit” Tally’s disgust goes down a few notches. Nothing Ever Stays Dead – Anacostia, Scylla, Willa, General Adler, Abigail, Raelle, Tally Which is a blessing for, after securing the Tarim, the group is attacked! By who? Well, not the Russians, Chinese, or any formal military. Also, it isn’t the Spree. Rather, it is the Camarilla! There are a notable number of them, and while not witches, they seemingly are able to emulate witch powers, thus producing a dust storm. One that leads to General Adler getting injured and, to save her, Tally becomes a biddy. That isn’t the only sacrifice made by the Bellweather unit. Thanks to a child, maybe a few years younger than Khalida, Raelle finds herself propelled to get him after he runs from the helicopter. Leading to, no sooner than her removing her mother’s charm, being stabbed through her chest – in the heart area. Following suit, Abigail runs after her and tries her best to connect to heal Raelle but ends up dying in the process. Sike! For reasons explained in the “Worth Noting” section below, as General Adler, Tally, and the others leave, we see what looks like an explosion, and afterward, hand in hand, we see Raelle and Abigail walking. As for where they are walking? Your guess is as good as mine since they are an ocean away from American soil. Oh, and one last thing, despite being given a chance at freedom, Scylla ends up returning to the Spree without realizing Anacostia is right behind her. Thus leaving you to wonder, did Anacostia allow Scylla escape to track down a Spree hideout, or has she truly become curious enough about their ways to want to join? Either way, in the house, guess who Scylla sees? RAELLE’S MOTHER WILLA! Someone who, despite allegedly dying, is not only alive and well, but seems to hold some form of a leadership position! Worth Noting - According to the after-show, what produced that bomb-like magic and allowed Raelle and Abigail to survive was when Raelle touched that sentient being—the one in the basement where the necromancy students study. Apparently, it took some of Raelle’s DNA and gave some of its own, thus allowing her to tap into otherworldly powers. Add that with the magic of the Bellweather family line, and BOOM! Highlights A Real Villain With no offense to the Spree, what “Motherland: Fort Salem” needed the most was an undisputed villain. Yes, in minor ways, Libba played the role, even General Adler to a certain degree, but I’m talking about someone to outright find despicable. The Camarilla fill that void, and considering how their aim is genocide, not sending a message, it’ll make them the most fearsome thing we’ve ever seen in the show. Especially considering even General Adler is fearful of them and, after her actions towards the president, this opens us up to see more humans who are against witches. Never mind the politics of the mortal world. Did We Just Meet A Spree Leader? Willa (Diana Pavlovska) I don’t know what to be more excited about, meeting a member of the Spree who we know the name of and won’t just end up randomly killed, or said person being Willa, who comes off as a leader? Granted, the Spree are supposed to operate without a leader in order to be effective and not easily be toppled. However, with only random faces, outside of Scylla, as notable as their terrorist attacks were, being that Scylla was the face of the organization, it didn’t have the oomph it could. Not to forget, the whole balloon thing, and the music which preceded an attack, it gave “IT” vibes. On The Fence Tallys Is A Biddy While creator/ writer Eliot Laurence pushed that, with Tally being a Biddy, it would mean access to her memories, this comes at the cost of the Bellweather unit. A group that just became solid, and then a wrecking ball breaks them apart. But not due to drama over secrets, but Tally making a commitment that she may not be able to break. Never mind she has aged at least 40 years so, even if the team did get back together unless there is some kind of de-aging magic, Tally is bound to die within a couple of years. Lest we forget, outside of the biddies, there aren’t too many witches who get to become senior citizens. Check out more from Motherland – Fort Salem. TV Shows We’re Covering This Season Images used for editorial and commentary purposes. All rights remain with their respective copyright holders.


--- ["Motherland: Fort Salem" Series Finale Recap: The Last Song] ---
Valerie Anne here, sadly reporting for duty, because it’s the last time I’ll get to say this: Welcome to this recap of Motherland: Fort Salem, episode 310, “Revolution, Part 2,” aka the series finale. Previously on Motherland: Fort Salem, Alder set off to find all the Stewards of the first song but is missing one because the lineage records were lost, Tally gave up her sight to become one of said stewards but not before having a vision of Raelle using the witch bomb on the whole world, Hearst killed his way to the Mother and took over Fort Salem, and Raelle, Scylla, Abigail and Adil all got married. Well, into their respective couples. I don’t know a lot about witch customs but I’m pretty sure they’re not a four-way spousal situation. But honestly who knows! Anyway! After Raelle collapses after the wedding, she regains control of her body but she can tell something bad is happening to the mycelium. Petra confirms this when she tells them that Camarilla have taken over Fort Salem and are sending many troops there now. Abigail isn’t willing to let this happen, so she turns to her unit and asks if they’ll join her in defending their home. Raelle and Tally agree to one last hoorah, for goddess and country. At Fort Salem, there is bad news and good news. The bad news is, Hearst is making himself at home with that smug smile of his, putting Penelope in a jar and being his general icky self. The GOOD news is, Izadora is alive and laughing maniacally in Hearst’s face. Get ’em! While the witches try to win this war once and for all, Alder is playing Carmen Sandiego trying to find the last piece of the first song. She starts in Ghana but the witch military there see her presence as an incursion. They think she’s causing the storm overhead. She isn’t and she realizes she’s causing more trouble than she intended so she Homer Simpsons into the wall and disappears. Before they head off, Anacostia takes a moment to tell her girls how proud she is of them. She might have been a little hard on them at first but it’s because they knew they had greatness in them. She knew she wasn’t dealing with any old witch unit. She knew they were special. And even if they didn’t have important destinies, they were always special to her. She tells them to never doubt themselves, and then jokes that they should look out for Scylla, but it’s Scylla who starts the group hug. And that’s why we call her Mamacostia. D was speaking directly to Tay, jess, & I. Not rae, tal, or ab. She’s been with us from the jump. Mamacostia from the jump. Every take was full of tears. #LongLiveAnacostia #MotherlandFortSalem https://t.co/7nu34dUZpt — Ashley Nicole Williams (@ashleynicwill) August 24, 2022 As they get ready for the fight, the girls have one more cute moment of sisterhood, teasing each other about how they all polished their shiny witch marks at the wedding, Scylla even seizing the opportunity to call Raelle her wife. Greg comes in and Tally swoons over him and Abigail is amused but I can’t help but think how random this all feels and how it could have been, and arguably should have been, M instead. The witch gang makes their way through the halls of Fort Salem, and maybe it’s because they’re in such familiar territory, maybe it’s because they all “recharged” at the wedding, but Abigail and Adil are having cute honeymoon banter while fighting. It’s cute! Meanwhile, outside, Anacostia, Petra, Sterling and Greg find the horde of soldiers and make a plan to do a spell to stop them, but when they start making a magic tornado, one of the soldier taps his armor and it casts a shroud of silence, cutting off their work and ending the spell in an instant. But then the armor glitches and Anacostia does a quick tactical read of the situation and S’KAs Petra and Sterling out of the way as the sudden halting of the tornado flings a car in their direction. Petra and Sterling are safe, but Anacostia is crushed. Anacostia is dead. AND I AM VERY SAD ABOUT IT. And like, I know I should have seen this coming with the goodbye speech she gave, and I knew going into this we were going to lose at least one main player, but WHY HER?! I think Anacostia will go down in my long list of characters who died in a series finale who I simply do not register as dead in my mind or my memories. See also: [redacted] from the Buffy series finale. Greg runs off to find the Bellweather unit and warn them about the armor that can kill sound, and together they head to the necro bunker. Petra and Sterling find more guards, and get Penelope-in-a-Can back. Petra can tell Sterling is losing focus so she tells him that he has to keep fighting, for Anacostia. So her death won’t be in vain. The Bellweather unit makes it the necro bunker and the guards follow. They shut off the sound and only Hearst is able to use his stolen vocal cords to speak. He notices Raelle doesn’t look so good, and is delighted by this news. Hearst presses a button and blasts more poison into the Mother, and Raelle’s witch bomb whips out, hitting Scylla, and Adil, too. Talder even feels it from afar. Tally is FURIOUS so she starts using her whip; magic or no magic, it’s still a weapon she’s proficient in wielding, so wield it she does. As she works, the armor glitches, and Tally and Abigail seize the opportunity to use work to take on the rest of the guards. Raelle and Scylla would help, I’m sure, but they’re too busy walking the fine line between a Wynonna Earp/Supergirl ending and a Bury Your Gays catastrophe. Tally and Abigail hold off the guards while Adil and Scylla drag Raelle to the mushroom wall. Eventually the silence barrier glitches and the girls get their magic back and they take down the current wave of guards. Abigail doesn’t understand what’s going on, but Tally is starting to put the pieces of the big picture together. More guards show up and they start to fight again, but definitely have a disadvantage every time one of them activates the silence again. But as the tides start to turn against them, Nicte and her bats show up and save the day. Tally is so happy to see her, and Abigail is happy to hear that Nicte has a plan. Inside the mycelium chamber, Raelle stumbles to the wall and sings to it, opening a tunnel. She calls out to her squad and they all rush into the Mother–oh my goddess, it’s the Motherland. The titular role! Once they’re inside, Tally looks around at the crumbling wasteland and realizes it looks very familiar. This is where her vision takes place. This is where she saw the witch bomb go off. Raelle was hoping that once she was inside, she’d be able to better access the myscelium’s powers and heal her friends, by Scylla and Adil are getting worse and there’s nothing she can do about it. Raelle wails Tally’s name, begging their Seer for a solution. Seeing Raelle and Abigail cling to their spouses, Tally knows what she has to do, and she yells out to Alder for help. As Adil’s energy fades, he tells Abigail to let him go if the time comes, but she’s determined to get him to the ocean. Raelle laments ever leaving the lighthouse, but Scylla says that being together is lighthouse enough for her. Raelle asks why this is all happening to her, and Scylla says she’s the only one who would be strong enough to endure it. Tally is still feeling enlightened and she knows the three of them have a higher calling; she doesn’t have to see the future to known that they can do this. They can fix it. She saw the witch bomb go off in her vision, but she didn’t see what happened right after. So they can decide what happens. She asks Raelle to trust her, and of course she does. Tally trusts in the mother, and that faith is going to get her through this. On her side quest, Alder follows clues to Jamaica, which then lead her back stateside to Roanoke. She finds books and diaries and learns that her missing witch is called Jem. Jem was a powerful witch, who could use her work to control both earth and sky. Sound familiar? The notes say this final piece of the first song can break the world or remake it, depending on how it is sung. Out in the real world, Hearst forces Silver to give a televised speech about taking back the country, when Sterling-in-disguise slips Izadora the can of Penelope. Izadora spikes Hearst’s coffee with just a splash of Penelope and she bursts forth from his body, turning him into goo. Silver stands face to face with the daughter he sacrificed for his hateful cause and tries to apologize, to make excuses, but Penelope isn’t having any of it, so she witch plagues him to death, too. When things are looking dire in the Motherland, Alder appears with the Stewards trailing behind her. Seeing no new faces, Tally asks Alder where the last steward is, then Alder steps forward to Abigail. Her history was lost and stolen because of slavery and the cruelty of humanity, but Alder put the pieces together. Abigail is the final steward. SHE is the union of earth and sky. Not her and Adil, not their potential baby. Just her. Overwhelmed, she asks how she’ll know how to sing it, but just like she somehow knew she had more work in her from Jem than anyone realized, she will know the song when it’s time to sing it. Tally tells Raelle that contrary to all the things she’s said since she had her vision, she needs Raelle to be the witch bomb one last time. But she wants her to use it to distribute the song, distribute it EVERYWHERE. Tally promises it will be okay, and Raelle trusts her wholeheartedly. But Raelle can’t hold it in much longer so they better start singing STAT. And so sing they do. Abigail does indeed know the song, and their voices all intertwine and go through Raelle and out of the mother and into the world. A soft glow spreads until it covers the earth like a dome, casting a yellow light on everything. When the song is over, Raelle gets up and feels healed, and finally has the strength to heal Adil and Scylla. Raelle holds her wife, Abigail holds her husband and her sister-in-law, and Alder hugs Tally. Once they resurface, Petra is there to greet them, and they all look together up at the glowing sky. Before they can celebrate their win, Petra tells them that they lost one of their own in the final battle. Everyone cries and says a few nice words about her – how she was fearless and feared, and saw the good in everyone, and believed in them the most. And they send her off with lil stomps, as is the witchy way. As they look at the new world they created, the Bellweather Unit can’t exactly figure out what happened, but they know everything has changed. Nay, that they changed everything. And they have a feeling it was for the better. Alder pulls Nicte aside and asks her to show her real season one face, and she does. Alder apologizes for hurting her, and Nicte apologizes for holding a grudge. They joke together and you can sense a bit of healing happening. A peaceful resolution to their years of conflict. As Tally looks up at the sky in wonder, her eyes start to flicker and she has her sight back. And then some. She can see so much more than she ever could before, including the fact that the sky is like this across the globe. Alder says that actually the Mother wants them all to be able to see that, so she takes the Bellweather unit up in a helicopter. The Mother speaks through Alder and tells them that she once merged with six women, and their descendents were called witches, but now her gift is freely given. Everyone has magic now. But the world will still need stewards, and she has chosen the three of them. Tally’s vision, Raelle’s care, Abigail’s fury. Together, they will guide the people. They will be called goddesses. Once she’s done being a mouthpiece for the Mother, Alder knows her borrowed time is over. She calls them her daughters, kisses them all on the forehead, and then returns to dust on the winds. Tally, Raelle, and Abigail hold hands; they’re in this together, forever and for always. They speak the mothertongue in unison and say, “Let us begin.” They want to live up to the goddess title the people will give them, and something tells me they will. And so we say goodbye to our witches. I’ll miss this little universe, and these girls. I’ll miss the whips and the magic and the sisterhood. The Bellweather unit showed us how important found family is, how to fight broken systems from the inside, and how to stand up to those who might hate and you just because of who you are, and how probably they’re just afraid you’ll realize how very powerful you are. I’m so very grateful for two things in particular re: this finale. 1) all three girls and their partners (even the gay ones!) made it out alive. 2) This was very definitely and absolutely a series finale. This wasn’t a season finale repurposed, it wasn’t a cliffhanger episode that would leave the series feeling unfinished for all eternity. It definitely has stories to pick up if it got a movie or got picked up by another network, but if it doesn’t, we still have closure. We’ve lost too many shows prematurely lately, and while I wish this show had gotten one or two more seasons, I’m glad they had the heads up they did so they could give us a proper goodbye. So goodbye to our goofball goddesses. I think I’ll miss your livetweets most of all.


--- [Witchbomb | Motherland: Fort Salem Wiki - Fandom] ---
Witchbomb is the tenth episode in the Freeform series, Motherland: Fort Salem. Witchbomb aired on May 20, 2020 as the Season One finale. Synopsis[] Raelle, Abigail and Tally graduate from basic training, making Abigail more desperate than ever to prove her unit belongs in War College; Alder eyes the unit for a rescue mission while Anacostia and Scylla find common ground. Plot[] A women's soccer team is playing a game, when one of The Spree, disguised as a soccer player, uses a soccer ball to hypnotize the crowd, who start chanting together "Our ancient enemy has returned" in unison. Alder congratulates the cadets at their graduation of basic training. She acknowledges that some will go to War College and others will go to serve in the front lines in the U.S. army. The girls run out, along with their parents, to receive their fates. Abigail, Tally, and Raelle all get assigned to combat infantry instead of War College. They all look shocked and horrified. They discuss how it could be possible, especially Abigail who says that this has never happened to a Bellweather. Anacostia visits Scylla, who asks her why she is still there instead of jail. She suggests that Anacostia is realizing that Scylla must have had real reasons for being in the Spree. Anacostia tells her that she knows nothing about her and storms out. Alder calls the girls to her office, where she informs them that they will be helping in a special operation to help the Tarim, at Khalida's insistence based on Raelle's healing powers. Adil agrees to help them find his people. Raelle greets her dad and tells him that she is deploying today. She is wearing her protection charm and asks her dad why it didn't protect her mom. He said she wasn't wearing it on her last tour. He hands her a letter, written by her mom, for her graduation day. Petra talks to Abigail and tells her that she knows that Alder blocked her acceptance into War College but that she pulled a few strings to secure her a solo placement at college. Abigail protests because Tally and Raelle didn't get placements. Petra says that some matrilines are more important than others. Raelle asks Anacostia to request that they go easy on Scylla, wherever they send her. Anacostia says that she'll try. Tally and Raelle are upset but also not completely surprised when they find out about Abigail. Tally cries because Abigail never said goodbye. Anacostia sees Scylla and brings her a photo of her dead parents. Scylla explains how they died. She explains that they were on the run and her parents were caught and surrendered, but were killed anyway. Scylla was hiding and got away and vowed to fight for them ever since. Anacostia explains that her parents also died tragically. Raelle and Tally board the plane to deploy on their first mission. Adil asks where Abigail is and they say it's a long story. Abigail appears suddenly and surprises them. Alder nods in approval at Abigail. Raelle reads her mother's letter. She tells her to keep the charm to keep her safe and that she loves her more than anything. She tells Raelle to trust her gift and to never doubt it, even for a minute. Alder's group lands and Tally detects that they're being watched or followed by a hostile party. They march through the land looking for The Tarim. They stop to rest and Alder addresses the girls to "clear the air." Alder starts to explain herself, for the purpose of trust. She said that she has had to make many hard decisions but that she regrets none, including the Citydrop battle where Libba died. The group advances and comes across a hanging dead woman, dressed like Alder's sister. They enter a cave and see a trail of blood leading to a solid wall of rock. Adil seems pleased because he knows that his people can create walls of rock, split rock, move mountains, anything - so maybe they put the wall up themselves for protection. Adil opens up the wall with his powers. There are Tarim behind the wall who accuse Adil of betrayal for bringing the army, but they offer the healing services of Raelle and say that Khalida survived. Raelle starts to heal a boy, sick with the same dark black winding veins. Tally detects people outside waiting for them, but not witches. Anacostia frees Scylla and tells her to "hold on to the part of you that's good". She gives her a lighter and tells her to make the escape look "good". She knocks out Anacostia and disguises herself as Anacostia and walks out. Tally detects people outside waiting for them, but not witches. Alder's group and the Tarim walk out and see the pilots bound to stakes by the Camarilla. They tell Alder they saved a place for her and set the pilots on fire. Alder, the unit, and Bridey manage to fight them off. The Camarilla start to attack Alder's biddies, which weakens Alder. Tally offers herself as one of Alder's biddies and she regains her youth, whereas Tally becomes old. The group boards the helicopter to escape but the Tarim boy runs out, afraid. Raelle gives him her protection charm so he gets back in but one of the Camarilla stabs her from behind. Abigail runs out to try to heal her but starts to lose strength herself. Alder has to make the call to leave them behind and the helicopter takes off. Tally bursts into tears, seeing Abigail and Raelle both near-death on the ground. Abigail tells Raelle that she loves her. A big burst of black beads shoot in the sky, shaking down the helicopter. Tally asks Alder "What was that?" and she responds that she has no idea. Abigail and Raelle walk, seemingly okay, surrounded by light and the black beads. They both appear confused and walk hand in hand. Scylla walks up to a house and says a code to enter. Anacostia appears outside of the house, "on a run," but really she appears to be following Scylla to locate more of the Spree's headquarters. Scylla goes into the kitchen where a woman welcomes her back. She turns around and it is revealed that the woman is Raelle's mother, Willa Collar. Willa tells Scylla, "You were supposed to bring me back my daughter." Cast[] Main[] - Taylor Hickson as Raelle Collar - Jessica Sutton as Tally Craven - Amalia Holm as Scylla - Demetria McKinney as Anacostia Quartermain - Ashley Nicole Williams as Abigail Bellweather - Lyne Renee as General Sarah Alder Recurring[] - Kai Bradbury as Gerit Buttonwood - Sarah Yarkin as Libba Swythe - Annie Jacob as Glory Moffett - Tony Giroux as Adil - Emilie Leclerc as Izadora - Guilherme Babilônia as Augustin Alcala - Kylee Brown as Khalida - Linda Ko as Nessa Clary - Jill Morrison as Berryessa Tansey - Rhianna Jagpal as Hilary Saint Guest[] - Lorraine Colond as General Salerno - Miranda Edwards as Amina Straw - Catherine Lough Haggquist as Petra Bellweather Quotes[] This is a complete betrayal of everything... Tally You made us into murderers. Tally to General Alder The Spree gave me purpose and a place to put my pain. Scylla If you knew what was at stake, you would understand. General Alder Where's Abigail?" "She's not coming." "Why?" "Long, terrible story." "Yep. Pretty much the saddest story ever told. You didn't think I was going to let you two have all the fun, did you?Adil, Raelle, Tally and Abigail
