=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[CURE ADOA FOUNDATION]
Cure ADOA Foundation The Cure ADOA Foundation was founded in 2018 by and for patients with autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA) and the plus variant. In 2022, we became a recognized patient organization.
URL: https://adoa.eu/en/

[The Foundation]
The Cure ADOA Foundation was founded in 2018, for and by ADOA(-plus) patients. Our mission is to be a platform to make scientific research financially possible.
URL: https://adoa.eu/en/de-stichting

[Contact with fellow sufferers | Cure ADOA Foundation]
The Cure ADOA Foundation was founded in 2018 by and for patients with autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA) and the plus variant. Since 2022, we have been an officially recognized patient organization by the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport.
URL: https://www.adoa.eu/en/peer-contact

[Steun Stichting Cure ADOA Foundation. Kom in actie en doneer online ...]
De Cure ADOA Foundation is een stichting opgericht in november 2018, door en voor mensen met ADOA. Het is een non-profit organisatie met ANBI-status waaraan met belastingvoordeel geschonken kan worden.
URL: https://www.geef.nl/en/charity/stichting-cure-adoa-foundation/about-us

[Hoop op herstel voor de oogzenuw - wereldvanfilantropie.nl]
Cure Adoa Foundation Hoop op herstel voor de oogzenuw ADOA (Autosomaal Dominant Optische Atrofie) ADOA is een zeldzame mitochondriële aandoening. De oogzenuw raakt beschadigd door problemen in de energiestofwisseling. Dit leidt vaak al op jonge leeftijd tot wazig zien.
URL: https://www.wereldvanfilantropie.nl/partners/cure-adoa-foundation


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [CURE ADOA FOUNDATION] ---
ADOA is a very rare hereditary eye disorder that causes visual impairment and sometimes even blindness. The plus syndrome is a variant in which more complaints arise. There is no treatment or cure yet. The Cure ADOA Foundation was founded in 2018 by and for patients with autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA) and the plus variant. In 2022, we became a recognized patient organization. We are also a non-profit organization with an official ANBI status and the CBF quality mark and we are affiliated with the Association of Collaborating Parent and Patient Organizations (VSOP) and Eurordis. In addition to the general board, the foundation also has a medical advisory board that supports us in medical matters. Our mission is to financially support scientific research in order to promote the treatment and cure of ADOA. To achieve this, we want to increase awareness of ADOA nationally and internationally. The Cure ADOA Foundation has four main goals. Serving as a trusted resource for patients and their loved ones Raising money for scientific research ADOA is a very rare hereditary eye disorder in which there is an energy deficiency in the optic nerve cells, causing them to break down. This is due to a mutation in the OPA1 gene. ADOA causes visual impairment and sometimes even blindness. Living with ADOA can raise many questions. Will I be able to drive? What tools and supports are available? What are the chances that my children will have ADOA? We try to answer as many questions as possible. Autosomal dominant optic atrophy-plus syndrome (ADOA-plus) is a variant of autosomal dominant optic atrophy and accounts for 20% of all ADOA cases. People with ADOA-plus also experience loss of function in other areas. We organize a patient day a few times a year. A speaker is invited to provide more information about ADOA and/or ADOA-plus. Through interactions with peers, ADOA patients can feel heard and supported. Enabling research into ADOA is an important goal of the Cure ADOA Foundation because without research there is no knowledge, without knowledge there is no treatment and without treatment there is no cure. We regularly post in our section 'The Road to Treatment' to keep everyone informed of developments around ADOA. The news that you or a loved one has ADOA(-plus) can elicit many emotions and questions. We hope to provide a trusted resource for ADOA(-plus) patients and their loved ones. This site contains stories from fellow ADOA(-plus) patients. We also provide answers to various patient questions. We organize several patient days every year where patients can meet and share experiences. A separate page is available for children. We regularly post in our "Stories and Interviews" section. Would you also like to share your story? Let us know! ADOA(-plus) is hereditary. Children can also face this condition at an early age. Visit our children's page to read all about ADOA(-plus), its origins, and how children can get it. The Cure ADOA Foundation app is a community app for everyone who has a connection with ADOA(-plus). With this app you will always be informed of the latest news about ADOA and our foundation. It is a GDPR-proof platform where people can talk to each other in group chats, but also one-on-one. Nearly 100 people have already signed up. You can sign up for the app by entering your name, email address, and preferred language. to email to Marieke. . More information can also be requested via this e-mail address. Nina is a content creator and has more than 600.000 followers on Instagram alone. She also writes cookbooks, has her own kitchen textile line called NINÉ Kitchenware and creates the podcasts VrouMiBo and Kibbeling. Nina herself does not have ADOA, but she does have several family members with this disease. Nina is committed to raising money for research and raising awareness about ADOA. “On Wednesday, September 28, the time had come: my documentary 'Wazig – Living with ADOA' was released! I was so looking forward to sharing this special and especially personal project with you. ADOA is central in the documentary and my father plays a major role.” Nina Warink is the ambassador of the Cure ADOA Foundation. She works to build awareness of ADOA and raise funds in order to fulfill the mission of the Foundation: to enable research into the treatment of ADOA! You can read more about her actions for the Cure ADOA Foundation this page. Ryan Searle is also an ambassador for our foundation. Ryan is a professional darts player and, despite his ADOA diagnosis, is ranked 8th on the PDC Order of Merit. During the 2026 PDC World Darts Championship, he raised awareness about ADOA (plus), particularly because it affects not only him but also his children. If you want more information about ADOA and ADOA-plus, we recommend watching the informational film below. Copyright 2018 – 2025 Stichting Cure ADOA Foundation | All Rights Reserved | Privacy statement


--- [The Foundation] ---
CURE ADOA FOUNDATION The foundation Mission The Cure ADOA Foundation was founded in 2018, for and by ADOA(-plus) patients. Our mission is to be a platform to make scientific research financially possible, so that the treatment and cure of ADOA(-plus) is stimulated. To achieve this, we want to promote brand awareness nationally and internationally. Collaboration is crucial. We seek interaction with doctors, researchers, the pharmaceutical industry and patient organizations abroad. With our foundation we also want to be a trusted place in the Netherlands to which every individual and every family affected by ADOA(-plus) can connect. A place where we can share knowledge, experiences, tips and support together. There will be at least one fellow-sufferer's day every year, where sharing experiences and obtaining information will be central. Goals - Raising money for scientific research to promote the treatment and cure of ADOA; - Publicizing ADOA, nationally and internationally; - Promote interaction between ADOA patients, physicians, researchers, the pharmaceutical industry, and international patient organizations. - To be a trusted place for ADOA patients and their loved ones. Due to the rare nature of the condition, we in the Netherlands are a small but active place for people with ADOA. Dominant optic atrophy affects many lives; not only the life of the patient, but also that of his loved ones. Through our efforts, we hope to bring attention to ADOA and raise awareness about the debilitating nature of this disease. Medical Advisory Board As Cure ADOA Foundation we have a medical advisory board: DRS. JAM FROM EVERDINGEN EYE HOSPITAL ROTTERDAM Ophthalmologist, general ophthalmology and neuro-ophthalmology DR. IFM THE COO UNIVERSITY OF MAASTRICHT Pediatric neurologist, Coordinator NeMo Center of Expertise PROF. DR. CJ BOON AMSTERDAM UMC Ophthalmologist, professor of ophthalmology and hereditary eye diseases The board From left to right: Lotte de Jonge (member). Maud van Gerwen (member), Hedy Smit – Wigchers (treasurer), Gabriëlle den Hollander – Beijer (secretary) and Wouter Jongerius (chairman). Ambassador: Nina Warink Nina is a content creator and has over 550.000 followers on Instagram alone. She also writes cookbooks, has her own kitchen textile line called NINÉ Kitchenware, produces the podcasts VrouwMiBo and Kibbeling, and you might also know her from the show Hunted VIPS. Nina didn't become an ambassador for our foundation for nothing. She doesn't have ADOA herself, but several family members have the disease. Nina wants to use her fame to raise awareness about ADOA. For example, she sells clothing, the proceeds of which go to ADOA scientific research. In September 2022, she made a compelling documentary about ADOA. Ambassador: Ryan Searle Ryan "Heavy Metal" Searle is a professional darts player and is ranked 8th on the PDC Order of Merit. He was recently diagnosed with ADOA after his daughter was diagnosed with it. During the 2026 PDC World Darts Championship, Ryan won several rounds and reached the semi-finals. He used his platform to raise awareness for ADOA and the Cure ADOA Foundation. His story resonated with the World Championship's presenters, sponsors, and viewers, resulting in the foundation receiving over €50,000 for ADOA research. CBF Recognition The Recognition is the quality mark for charities that is issued by the Supervisory Authority CBF. With the Recognition, organizations show that they meet strict quality requirements. Of course, different requirements apply to larger organizations than to smaller ones. No less than 4,4 billion euros in donations are supervised by the CBF. You can safely donate to a Recognized Charity to donate, because you can assume that the organization actually contributes to a better world, handles every euro with care, is accountable and allows itself to be independently audited. Donate to the Cure ADOA Foundation > Transparency at a glance: the CBF Recognition Passport The CBF Recognition Passport shows the most important information of a Recognized Charity in a clear and neutral way. Transparency at a glance. The passport contains both qualitative information about the objective and activities of the organization and financial key figures. The latter have been validated by the Supervisory Authority CBF. ANBI status As a foundation, we have the official ANBI status and are therefore a charity that can be donated with tax benefits. All donations are 100% reserved for funding research. The costs are largely paid from the PGO subsidy. Activities are also financed by contributions from funds or by sponsorship in cash or in kind. The board members and the medical advisory board receive no remuneration. Donor interests We are proud that we have the Donors' Interests Badge allowed to wear. Donors Interest Foundation ensures that we collect donations in an honest and respectful manner, and that we are transparent in our accountability to our donors. With this badge we show that we work 100% donor-oriented in every phase! Annual reports and other documents Below you will find all relevant documents regarding the obligations associated with CBF Recognition, ANBI status and Donor Interests Badge: Cure ADOA Foundation policy plan 2026-2028 Cure ADOA Foundation policy plan 2024-2025 Cure ADOA Foundation policy plan 2018-2023 Code of Conduct Cure ADOA Foundation Internal complaints procedure Cure ADOA Foundation Tax Authorities Standard Form ANBI 2025 Tax Authorities Standard Form ANBI 2024 Overview of secondary functions of board members Articles of Association of the Cure ADOA Foundation VSOP As the Cure ADOA Foundation, we are a member of the VSOP (Association of Collaborating Parent and Patient Organizations). The VSOP is a partnership of approximately 60 patient organizations, often for conditions with a hereditary or congenital component. The VSOP focuses in general on genetic and biomedical research and policy, and in particular on the specific problems of rare disorders. We can also be found via the website View of Zeldzaam. The Cure ADOA Foundation is listed as patient organization and ADOA is listed as rare condition. EURORDIS The CURE ADOA Foundation is also a member of EURORDIS. This is a non-governmental alliance of patient organisations for people with a rare disease. There are more than a thousand organisations members. In this way, EURORDIS works on a strong community of patient organisations and people living with rare diseases. Themes that the alliance focuses on include: diagnoses, research, treatments and much more. Information is exchanged among each other, but the alliance also works to bring rare diseases to the attention of the European Parliament. EURORDIS is also the organizer of the worldwide 'Rare Disease Day'.


--- [Contact with fellow sufferers | Cure ADOA Foundation] ---
For and by patients with ADOA(-plus) The Cure ADOA Foundation was founded in 2018 by and for patients with autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA) and the plus variant. Since 2022, we have been an officially recognized patient organization by the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. We are also a non-profit organization with ANBI status and we are affiliated with the Association of Collaborating Parent and Patient Organizations (VSOP). In addition to the general board, we also have a medical advisory board that supports us with medical matters. Our mission is to provide a platform for fellow sufferers and their families and to facilitate funding for scientific research into ADOA(-plus), thereby stimulating research into treatment and a cure. To achieve this, we aim to increase our national and international recognition. Fellow sufferers days We organize a fellowship day several times a year. We have noticed that the interest is great and there is a need to talk to each other about living with ADOA(-plus). There is plenty of time on this day to ask questions to the board, to each other or to invited speakers. Keep an eye on our social media channels and/or newsletters for these days. Cure ADOA Foundation app We have our own app for everyone who has a connection with ADOA(-plus). With this app you can talk to each other in group chats, but you can also chat 1-on-1. In addition, we share news items and activities here. With this app you can stay up-to-date with all the latest news. The app is also available in English, German and French. This way we are in contact with each other worldwide. Download the app for free in the Apple Appstore or Google Playstore. The platform can also be viewed via the web browser. Would you like to join our ADOA(-plus) community? To register, please email your full name and email address to Marieke. Are you a doctor or researcher? Please let us know when you register. You can also email Marieke with any questions about privacy, etc. Special children's page ADOA(-plus) is hereditary and young children can also be confronted with this condition. There is a private one for children children's page. Here they can read everything about the condition and its origins. The information on this page can also be used for, for example, a presentation or paper. Information for patients with ADOA(-plus) We try to keep you informed on a regular basis newsletterf, the app or social media. Practical information can be found under "Information." There are several pages on topics that concern patients or that they encounter. Also check out our Facebookpagina and join our private Facebook group Dominant Optic Atrophy DOA.


--- [Steun Stichting Cure ADOA Foundation. Kom in actie en doneer online ...] ---
No content


--- [Hoop op herstel voor de oogzenuw - wereldvanfilantropie.nl] ---
Hoop op herstel voor de oogzenuw ADOA (Autosomaal Dominant Optische Atrofie) ADOA is een zeldzame mitochondriële aandoening. De oogzenuw raakt beschadigd door problemen in de energiestofwisseling. Dit leidt vaak al op jonge leeftijd tot wazig zien. In sommige gevallen blijft het hierbij, maar het zichtverlies is onvoorspelbaar en progressief. ADOA resulteert in sommige gevallen zelfs in een volledig verlies van het gezichtsvermogen. Patiënten die de ADOA-plus-variant hebben kunnen daarbij last krijgen van gehoorverlies, spierzwakte en evenwichtsproblemen. Wanneer één van de ouders ADOA heeft, heeft een kind 50% kans om het ook te krijgen. De Cure ADOA Foundation, opgericht in 2018 door en voor ADOA-patiënten, speelt een cruciale rol in het bieden van hoop.Via een meertalige website, nieuwsbrieven en een innovatieve patiënten-app onderhoudt de stichting wereldwijd contact met patiënten. De focus ligt op het werven van fondsen voor baanbrekend onderzoek dat behandeling en genezing dichterbij moet brengen. In 2024 doneerde de stichting $100.000 aan Stanford University in Californië. Dit bedrag is bestemd voor onderzoek naar regeneratie (het opnieuw laten aangroeien) van oogzenuwcellen onder leiding van Professor of Ophthalmology Jeffrey Goldberg en Professor of Pathology Marius Wernig.Professor Goldberg benadrukt het belang van deze filantropische steun: “We are very excited to accelerate our research on ADOA, particularly on regenerative ophthalmology and restoring vision. This philanthropic support is critical to our ability to focus resources on this devastating disease, and we are exceedingly grateful.” Mats heeft ADOA Voor Mats betekent ADOA hebben dat hij regelmatig naar de oogarts moet. Verschillende aanpassingen zorgen ervoor dat Mats redelijk mee kan doen op school.Zo gebruikt hij een beeldschermloep. Zelfstandig deelnemen aan het verkeer is lastig; daarom fietsen zijn ouders samen met hem op een tandem.Op dit moment is Mats slechtziend. Hoe geweldig zou het zijn als er een behandeling komt die zijn zicht volledig herstelt? Zodat hij gewoon kind kan zijn en zijn dromen kan najagen! Contact informatie Cure ADOA Foundation Hazekampstraat 40 7848 AS in Schoonoord Tel: +31 (0)620-182205 hedy@adoa.eu KVK nummer 73101222 RSIN 859354969 IBAN NL80ABNA0833674641 De Cure ADOA Foundation maakt wetenschappelijk onderzoek financieel mogelijk, zodat de behandelingen genezing van ADOA(-plus)dichterbij komt.
