=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[How many members of the Winnipeg Falcons died in the war?]
Nov 3, 2014 · When did the Winnipeg Falcons win the Olympics? 1920 The Winnipeg Falcons was a hockey team of the early 20th century that was made up almost solely of players of Icelandic heritage. In 1920, they won Olympic gold in Antwerp, Belgium, in the first Olympic hockey tournament….Winnipeg Falcons.
URL: https://promisekit.org/2022/12/11/how-many-members-of-the-winnipeg-falcons-died-in-the-war/

[Winnipeg Falcons - Wikipedia]
There the Falcons, soundly beating all their opponents, won for Canada the first Olympic gold medal in ice hockey. [1][2][3][4] The Winnipeg Falcons hockey team was founded in 1911 with a roster made almost entirely of Icelandic Canadian players who had not been able to join other Winnipeg teams due to ethnic prejudice.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winnipeg_Falcons

[Hockey and the Canadian military | Veterans Affairs Canada]
Olympic Gold Ice hockey was an Olympic sport for the first time in 1920. Canada was represented by the Winnipeg Falcons, who had won the Allan Cup that year as the country's top senior men's amateur hockey team. The Winnipeg Falcons had an interesting background. Founded in 1911, its roster was initially made up entirely of players of Icelandic descent. The coming of the First World War ...
URL: https://www.veterans.gc.ca/en/remembrance/people-and-stories/hockey-and-canadian-military

[Winnipeg Falcons]
Nov 3, 2014 — The Winnipeg Falcons was a hockey team of the early 20th century that was made up almost solely of players of Icelandic heritage.
URL: https://thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article/winnipeg-falcons

[1920 Winnipeg Falcons Men's Hockey Team - Team Canada]
Canada was represented by the Winnipeg Falcons, who had just won the Allan Cup - the national amateur hockey championship. The Falcons had been founded in 1911 by players of Icelandic descent who were not welcomed into the existing men's senior hockey scene in Winnipeg. In 1916, every Falcons player enlisted to join The Great War.
URL: https://olympic.ca/canadian-olympic-hall-of-fame/1920-winnipeg-falcons-mens-hockey-team/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [How many members of the Winnipeg Falcons died in the war?] ---
How many members of the Winnipeg Falcons died in the war? How many members of the Winnipeg Falcons died in the war? Two players During the First World War, seven of the eight Falcons players enlisted to serve and went overseas. Two players — Frank Thorsteinson and George Cumbers — died in the war. The other five returned to Winnipeg after the war in 1919 and reassembled the team. Which club won the Allan Cup in 1920? The Winnipeg Falcons Final. The Winnipeg Falcons defeated the Toronto Varsity Blues men’s ice hockey team by 11 goals to 5 in a two-game total goals series. The Falcons then represented the Canada men’s national ice hockey team in ice hockey at the 1920 Summer Olympics, and won the first Olympic gold medal in ice hockey. When did the Winnipeg Falcons win the Olympics? 1920 The Winnipeg Falcons was a hockey team of the early 20th century that was made up almost solely of players of Icelandic heritage. In 1920, they won Olympic gold in Antwerp, Belgium, in the first Olympic hockey tournament….Winnipeg Falcons. | Published Online | November 3, 2014 | |---|---| | Last Edited | April 24, 2020 | Who won the 1920 Olympics hockey? Winnipeg Falcons Winnipeg Falcons win hockey gold at 1920 Summer Olympics The 1920 Olympic Summer Games marked the first time a truly international hockey tournament took place. Canada was represented by the Winnipeg Falcons, the Allan Cup champions, many of whom were of Icelandic descent. Who was the Allan Cup named after? Sir Montagu Allan The Allan Cup is the trophy awarded annually to the national senior amateur men’s ice hockey champions of Canada. It was donated by Sir Montagu Allan of Ravenscrag, Montreal, and has been competed for since 1909. What is the Ranchland hockey League? The Ranchland Senior Hockey League is is a men’s senior AA hockey league that is based in Southern Alberta. The league started play in 1974. What was hockey like in the 1920s? During the 1920s, the NHL grew from a 3 team league to a 10 team league and on the way adding more. The 1920s was also very brutal as padding was rarely worn which caused the next couple decades to add more and more padding and equipment to the game. During the 1920s, some trophies were made too. Did Canada compete in the 1924 Olympics? Canada competed at the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris, France. 65 competitors, all men, took part in 39 events in 8 sports. How old is the Allan Cup? The Allan Cup is the trophy awarded annually to the national senior amateur men’s ice hockey champions of Canada. It was donated by Sir Montagu Allan of Ravenscrag, Montreal, and has been competed for since 1909. The current champions are the Lacombe Generals, who captured the 2019 Allan Cup in Lacombe, Alberta. What is the Ranchland hockey league? Who owns the Stony Plain Eagles? Dan and Lindsey Leckelt, two local businessmen who played for the Stony Plain Eagles for more than a decade, purchased the team last week and immediately shook up the coaching staff. Was hockey popular in the 1920s? Hockey was a Canadian sport in the 1920s and became really popular. Hockey was and still is considered Canada’s national sport. Who were the 1920 Winnipeg Falcons hockey players? The 1920 Winnipeg Falcons Hockey Club: Frank Frederickson (Captain), Allan “Huck” Woodman, Haldor “Slim” Halldorsson, Kurt ‘Konnie’ Johannesson, Christian Fridfinnson, Bobby Benson, Magnus “Mike” Goodman, Wally Byron. Falcons that were not on the Olympic roster but contributed during the season were Harvey Benson, Ed Stephenson, Connie Neil, W. B. What happened to the 1920s Falcons? The old Amphitheatre Rink was packed with 5,000 hockey fans on Thursday, February 6, 1920 to see the Falcons meet the Winnipeg Hockey League champion Winnipegs for the right to represent Manitoba in pursuit of the Allan Cup. Pegs 5-0 in Game One before trouncing them in the 2nd of the two-game total point affair, 10-1. Why did Winnipeg Falcons get kicked out of City League? The Winnipeg Falcons had been excluded from the city league because of their racial origin. Almost all of the Falcons’ players were of Icelandic descent and the falcon is Iceland’s national bird. During the 1910-11 season, the Falcons became part of a new senior league. When did the Falcons win the Independent Hockey League? In 1913-14, the Falcons became part of the Independent Hockey League, joining the Strathconas from Winnipeg and teams from Selkirk and Portage la Prairie. The Falcons finished the season with 4 wins and 8 losses. During the following season, the Falcons beat Portage by a score of 4–3 to become league champions.


--- [Winnipeg Falcons - Wikipedia] ---
The Winnipeg Falcons were a senior men's amateur ice hockey team based in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The Winnipeg Falcons won the 1920 Allan Cup. That team went on to represent Canada in the 1920 Olympic games held in Antwerp, Belgium. There the Falcons, soundly beating all their opponents, won for Canada the first Olympic gold medal in ice hockey.
The Winnipeg Falcons hockey team was founded in 1911 with a roster made almost entirely of Icelandic Canadian players who had not been able to join other Winnipeg teams due to ethnic prejudice. In their first season, 1911–1912, they finished at the bottom of their league. The next year, Konnie Johannesson and Frank Fredrickson joined the team. That team turned out to be a winner in the league.


--- [Hockey and the Canadian military | Veterans Affairs Canada] ---
Many claim that Canada was the birthplace of hockey and few would dispute that it is Canada’s official winter game. The passion for this fast paced sport runs deep in every community. The relationship between hockey and our country’s military dates back more than a century. In fact it is believed that hockey actually had its origins in the military. Countless hockey players of all skill levels have served in the military. From icy rinks in Europe and frozen rivers of Korea to dusty floors in Afghanistan, hockey has served to strengthen the troops as well as boost their morale. Numerous hockey trophies honour our service men and women. First World War Military hockey teams were created across Canada early on in the war. There were games between battalions, games between military members and civilians, and well-known matches in which the navy faced the army. Military hockey teams attracted lots of attention, such as the 228th Battalion (Northern Fusiliers) who even played in a professional league. As the war dragged on, more and more men were needed on the front lines. Hockey themes were even used in posters to encourage military service! Large number of young men ended up enlisting, creating a void in many arenas and women’s hockey suddenly became very popular. There is no official count on the number of hockey players who served in the Great War, but more than 30 Canadians who perished in that war had significant ties to hockey. Memorial awards were created for many of these men, such as the Abbott Memorial Cup, to honour Edward Lyman Abbott, as well as the George Taylor Richardson Memorial Trophy. The tragic loss of prominent hockey players such as Allan “Scotty” Davidson and George Richardson inspired Captain James Sutherland and businessman Liam Carr to create a trophy to pay tribute to all Canadians who died at war. The Memorial Cup was first awarded in 1919, one year after the end of the First World War. It is now awarded each year to the junior hockey champions of the Canadian Hockey League. The cup was donated in 1919 by the Ontario Hockey Association. Since then, the format of the tournament to decide the winner of the cup has been altered a few times, but a key element remains—it is always a powerful symbol of remembrance. At the 2010 Memorial Cup Tournament, held in Brandon, Manitoba, the championship trophy was rededicated to recognize Canada’s war dead from all conflicts. Veterans from the Second World War and the Korean War escorted the Memorial Cup in a touching ceremony that took place at CFB Shilo. Few Canadian hockey teams have won gold at the Olympic Games. For the Winnipeg Falcons, this accomplishment was even more special due to the fact that seven of its players served during the First World War. Sadly, Frank Thorsteinson and George Cumbers lost their lives, and by coincidence, they both are buried in the Barlin War Cemetery in France. This tough blow did not prevent teammates Wally Byron, Frank Fredrickson, Konnie Johannesson as well as brothers Bobbie and Harvey Benson to don the skates during the war and play on their battalion’s team. After the war, the Winnipeg Falcons team was put back together and they went on to win the Allan Cup in 1919-1920, making them the national senior amateur men’s ice hockey champions of Canada. This title granted them the right to represent Canada at the 1920 Olympics games in Antwerp, Belgium. The first Winter Olympics (better suited for hockey!) would be held four years later. The victorious Falcons brought home Canada's first-ever Olympic gold medal in hockey. Olympic Gold Ice hockey was an Olympic sport for the first time in 1920. Canada was represented by the Winnipeg Falcons, who had won the Allan Cup that year as the country’s top senior men's amateur hockey team. The Winnipeg Falcons had an interesting background. Founded in 1911, its roster was initially made up entirely of players of Icelandic descent. The coming of the First World War three years later had a great impact on the sports landscape in Canada as hundreds of thousands of young men would enlist in the military—including every member of the Falcons. The brave players served overseas during the war and two of them lost their lives. When the surviving members made it back home after the conflict, they laced up their skates again and their team would earn the right to represent Canada at the Olympics. The 1920 Olympics Games were held in Antwerp, Belgium—a country that had suffered greatly during the recently-ended First World War. The Falcons would defeat their opponents handily (capped with a 12-1 victory over Sweden in the final) and won the very first gold medal in hockey. Before returning home to victory parades and accolades, the team toured the battlefields of nearby Flanders where several of them had served as soldiers not so long before. Today, the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto and the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame both have permanent displays honouring the Falcons and their impressive Olympic victory. A team of Icelandic-Canadians serve in the First World War before bringing home the very first gold medal in Olympic hockey. Second World War During the Second World War, many National Hockey League players put their careers on hold to serve in the military. Most players, though, did not enlist as dramatically as Milt Schmidt, Woody Dumart and Bobby Bauer. The three forwards for the Boston Bruins’ best line, ironically nicknamed the ”Kraut Line” because of their German ancestry, hung up their skates and enlisted together in the Royal Canadian Air Force on the same day in 1942. The fans went wild! All three saw action overseas as aircrew. Fortunately they survived the war and returned to the NHL, but not before they had given up three and a half years of their hockey careers to serve in the cause of peace and freedom. The teammates hadn’t lost their hockey flair and helped the Bruins reach the Stanley Cup finals in 1946. In Toronto, co-owner of the Maple Leafs, Conn Smythe (who had been decorated for bravery in the First World War) enlisted again at age 45. Leading by example, many Maple Leaf players also decided to join the war effort. Smythe was commanding an artillery battery in France when he was wounded in an enemy bombing attack. To this day, the National Hockey League trophy for the most valuable player in the playoffs is named in his honour. As Veteran Gordie Bannerman recalled in his memoirs, “Turk Broda of the Leafs and a few more NHL chaps were just overseas and had the help of Conn Smythe, Leafs owner, who commanded an artillery battery. Orme Payne, Sparky Ament, Darcy Spencer, Bob Bradley, and a couple more of our chaps, plus 5th LAA personnel were off to Amsterdam to play hockey. The fellows had a pretty good few weeks in the city of canals.” Some players, like Maurice “Rocket” Richard, could not enlist because of injuries they had received during their hockey careers. Other players enlisted but did not make it to the front lines. Having them play hockey either in Canada or in military camps overseas proved to be a pillar of strength for both civilians and the military. Highly competitive regimental hockey teams were formed, serving such purposes as keeping the men fit and entertaining the serving members on military bases. The war also had a huge impact on the Canadian economy. Various peace-time factories were converted to supply much needed products for the war effort. For example, the Canadian Cycle and Motor Co. Ltd. of Weston, Ontario, which had made bicycles and hockey skates before the war, took over the manufacture of armaments including gun parts, tripods for Bren guns, and cradles and pivots for anti-tank guns. While firm numbers are elusive, hundreds of Canadian hockey players from all leagues would end up serving during the Second World War and sadly, more than 50 would not survive. Following the Second World War, the 1948 Winter Olympic Games were held in St. Moritz, Switzerland. Many of the players on the Royal Canadian Air Force Flyers hockey team, representing Canada, were Veterans of the war. Despite a challenging tournament, the men finished in first place. Olympic Gold… again! Less than three years after the end of the Second World War, the Winter Olympic Games were held in St. Moritz, Switzerland. Many of the players on the Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) Flyers hockey team that competed at the Games were Veterans of the war. The team had a rocky beginning. It was formed at the last minute and lost several exhibition games, but Canada's underdogs came out on top. Even being pelted with snowballs by the hometown crowd during a game against the Swiss team on the outdoor rink could not stop them. The Flyers finished the round-robin tournament with seven wins and one tie for an overall record that deadlocked them with Czechoslovakia. Canada took home the gold medal based on their superior goals-for and goals-against averages. In 2000, the RCAF Flyers’ gold medal win was selected as the ”greatest moment in Canadian Armed Forces sports history” and the team would be inducted into the Canadian Olympics Hall of Fame in 2008. Korean War Our Canadian service members’ love of blending hockey with military service would continue in the Korean War. As the conflict progressed and the front lines became more stationary, our soldiers would find a way to play hockey in the Far East. During the colder months, they would clear the snow covering the ice on the Imjin River and play as the sound of artillery fire boomed in the distance. The matches often saw different units square off, with pride and bragging rights on the line! On March 11, 1952, for example, players from the 1st Battalion of the Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry and the 2nd Battalion of the Royal 22e Régiment played hockey on the frozen Imjin River in a well-remembered game. These kinds of sporting events helped bring a little normalcy to our troops serving so far from home in war-torn Korea. Canadian Armed Forces During the post-war years, many military bases across Canada built rinks to allow soldiers, sailors and airmen to play hockey for recreational and training purposes. Not surprisingly, the old military-hockey connection has continued in more recent times. Hockey sticks are sometimes packed when Canadian troops deploy in conflict zones. For example, in Kandahar, Afghanistan, where temperatures often reach 40°C, Canadian Armed Forces members built ball-hockey rinks. They played mostly at night, when the cooler temperature allowed for a faster-paced game. Former NHL players and celebrities like Guy Lafleur, Lanny MacDonald, Bob Probert and Don Cherry even went overseas to visit the troops, some of them playing exhibition games in mixed teams made up of hockey legends and serving members. But a hockey game wouldn’t be the same without referees, so former NHL officials were also on site to oversee the game! Hockey in the desert was helping boost the morale of our military but Afghanistan was a dangerous place to serve, and sadly some 158 CAF members lost their lives there during the course of our country’s 2001-2014 mission in the country. Many of our service members came back wounded, and stories of severely injured soldiers like Dominic Larocque demonstrate yet again the ties between hockey and the military. Losing a leg in Afghanistan, Larocque went through rehabilitation and was introduced to sledge hockey where he performed so well that he was selected to represent Canada in international competitions including the Paralympic Games. The team won a bronze medal in Sochi, Russia in 2014. Today, many NHL teams have special games to honour the men and women in the Canadian Armed Forces. It is common to see professional athletes wear camouflage jerseys in warm-ups before those games and goaltenders sometimes play with specially-painted helmets that pay tribute to military members. Junior hockey teams design commemorative hockey jerseys, especially when playing in the Memorial Cup tournament. Ceremonial puck drops involving our men and women in uniform are held across Canada at all levels. People and stories Conn Smythe Conn Smythe of Toronto played on the University of Toronto hockey team until the First World War interrupted his studies. A week after winning the Ontario Hockey Association championship in 1915, he and eight teammates enlisted. Smythe served in the Canadian Artillery where he earned the Military Cross. He transferred to the Royal Flying Corps in 1917 and was an airborne observer until being shot down and captured. Despite two escape attempts, he spent more than a year in a German prisoner of war camp. Smythe returned to his hockey roots after the war and helped found the Toronto Maple Leafs. He also coached the Varsity Grads team that would go on to win at the 1928 Winter Olympic Games in St. Moritz, Switzerland. Smythe did not travel to Europe with his team in protest of a controversy over the eligibility of some of his players, but he still received a gold medal. Remarkably, Smythe enlisted again at age 45 during the Second World War. He was commanding an artillery battery in France when he was wounded in an enemy bombing attack on an ammunition depot. Major Smythe survived, but suffered injuries that would affect him for the rest of his life. The National Hockey League trophy for the most valuable player in the playoffs is named in his honour. Video stories Watch and listen to personal recollections of Canadian Veterans with ties to hockey: Mr. Stanway was born in Britain, and relocated to Montreal with his family at a young age and would develop into an elite junior hockey player. He joined the army 8 months after the Second World War began and would serve throughout the Italian campaign. Mr. Edwards was born on a farm near Lockwood, Saskatchewan and had been good enough to try out for the Black Hawks hockey team before the war erupted. In June 1940, Mr. Edwards enlisted in the Air Force. By war’s end, he had served two tours of duty, flying over 360 missions. After the war was over he returned to Canada and continued service with the air force retiring as a wing commander. Mr. McKiel was born in Lunenburg, Nova Scotia and joined 405 Squadron, Bomber Command in 1943; he was shot down and captured shortly thereafter. He would spend two years in prisoner of war camp, Stalag Luft 3, where he helped 76 officers escape, an event known as the “Great Escape.” Mr. Williams describes the setup of camp within the soldiers compound and how they kept themselves entertained themselves while serving in Kosovo. Honour Roll Countless hockey players of all skill levels have served in the Canadian military over the years. Sadly, many of them gave their lives. View the list of Fallen Canadians with ties to hockey. Photo Galleries Hockey team during the First World War. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3386121 4 images Champion hockey team among the Canadians interned in Switzerland in 1917. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3386118 4 images Royal Newfoundland Regiment hockey team in 1917. Photo: The Rooms Provincial Archives Division, SANL 1.26.01.074 4 images Five members of the 1914 Stanley Cup winners would one day be inducted in the Hockey Hall of Fame. Three of the future Hall of Fame players served in the Canadian Expeditionary Force during the First World War - Frank Foyston, George McNamara, and Allan McLean Davidson. Photo: Canadian Virtual War Memorial 4 images Photo gallery First World War Boston Bruins Hockey Club front line Bobby Bauer, Porky Dumart and Milt Schmidt, who left hockey to become members of the RCAF, seen taking their medicals in 1942. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-108240 15 images Winnipeg Rifles hockey team during the playoffs in 1942. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3607563 15 images RCAF Flyers playing against the Quebec Aces in the Eastern Allan Cup Final in 1942. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-108276 15 images Royal Canadian Navy hockey team in Halifax, Nova Scotia in 1943. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3566772 15 images Hal Stade, goalie of the Royal Canadian Navy hockey team in 1943. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3566774 15 images Sub-Lieutenant Fritz, of the Royal Canadian Navy hockey team, injured during a game in Halifax, Nova Scotia, in 1943. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3567107 15 images RCAF No. 5 Operational Training Unit hockey team in British Columbia in 1943. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3199201 15 images Canadian Postal Corps hockey team, 1944-1945. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 2265922 15 images Women's Royal Canadian Naval Service hockey team in Halifax in 1944. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-192638 15 images Aircraft Commanding Officer O'Brien at hockey game in 1944. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3583185 15 images General Montgomery at Canadian Army hockey championship in 1944. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 4542729 15 images Major Conn Smythe, RCA, pointing out portraits of members of the Board of Directors of Maple Leaf Gardens on a Gardens calendar in France in 1944. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-163191 15 images Corporal Vickeney drops the puck to start game in Tilburg, Netherlands, in 1945. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-140902 15 images Rockcliffe Flyers hockey team in 1945. Photo: Library and Archives Canada 3583744 15 images RCAF Olympic hockey team in 1947. Photo: Department of National Defense 15 images Photo gallery Second World War Members of the 2nd Battalion Royal Canadian Regiment play hockey at Imjin Gardens in Korea in 1952. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-188736 6 images First official hockey game played by Royal Canadian Regiment in Korea in 1952. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-184478 6 images Imjin Gardens is the scene of a hockey game between teams of the Royal Canadian Horse Artillery officers and "Van Doos" officers in Korea in 1952. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-188700 6 images Hockey game between the Royal 22e Régiment and the Royal Canadian Horse Artillery in Korea in 1952. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-184715 6 images Some 400 spectators watch the 26 Canadian Infantry Brigade championship hockey game at Imjin Gardens in Korea in 1953. Phoot: Library and Archives Canada PA-173471 6 images Royal 22e Régiment hockey team members McCormick, Pelchat and Savard in Korea in 1953. Photo: Library and Archives Canada PA-136787 6 images Photo gallery Korean War Hockey game in the desert between sailors from HMCS Protecteur and HMCS Athabaskan in Bahrain, in 1990. Photo: Department of National Defence 14 images The first “Short/Beerenfenger Hockey Tournament”, at Camp Julien, in Afghanistan in 2003. Photo: Department of National Defence KA2003-A446D 14 images Hotel Company Combat Team, members of 2nd Battalion, Royal Canadian Regiment Battle Group, plays austere hockey at Patrol Base Wilson in 2007. Photo: Department of National Defence ISX2007-0001 14 images Soldiers from Eastern Ontario's 33 Canadian Brigade Group participate in a ball hockey game, with residents of Pangnirtung in Nunavut in 2008. Photo: Department of National Defence ISX2008-0022 14 images The Right Honourable Michaëlle Jean, and General Natynczyk do the face-off of the Team Canada ball hockey game with Guy Lafleur and Corporal Grondin of 438 Tactical Helicopter Squadron in Afghanistan in 2008. Photo: Department of National Defence VL2009-0200-01 14 images Leading Seamen Zurbriggen and Green fight for the hockey ball during Operation NUNALIVUT 10 Sports Day in CFS Alert in 2010. Photo: Department of National Defence IS2010-3010-5 14 images Members of the Royal Canadian Air Force play ball hockey with colleagues from other countries during a multinational exercise in Brazil in 2013. Photo: Department of National Defence TN2013-0518-113 14 images Ball hockey game on HMCS Toronto in the port of Chania, Greece during Operation REASSURANCE in 2014. Photo: Department of National Defence IS2014-1054-06 14 images Members of Air Task Force - Iraq playing a game of ball hockey at Camp Patrice Vincent, in Kuwait, during Operation IMPACT in 2015. Photo: Department of National Defence GD2015-0107-01 14 images Members of Air Task Force - Iraq take part in a ball hockey game at Camp Patrice Vincent, in Kuwait during Operation IMPACT in 2015. Photo: Department of National Defence GD2015-0110-33 14 images Veteran Dominic Larocque played sledge hockey at the 2014 Paralympic Winter Games in Sochi, Russia. Photo: Department of National Defence 14 images Ball hockey game between Canada and the United States during a friendly tournament in Belize in 2015. Photo: Department of National Defence Sgt Yannick Bédard 14 images Ball hockey game between Canada and the United States during a friendly tournament in Belize in 2015. Photo: Department of National Defence 14 images The Honourable Judith Guichon, Lieutenant Governor of British Columbia, prepares to drop the ceremonial puck at a game between the Vancouver Canucks Alumni and members of the Canadian Armed Forces in Colwood, British Columbia, in 2016. Photo: Department of National Defence ET2016-0076-01 The Memorial Cup, one of the most prestigious and coveted trophies in North American sport, has a rich tradition that has shaped the way junior hockey is played in North America. The Juno Beach Centre partnered with the Ontario Hockey League, in association with the Canadian Hockey League, to commemorate the 70th Anniversary of D-Day and the Normandy Landings. Known as the Northern Fusiliers, the 228th mustered in North Bay, Ontario, under the command of Lt.-Col. Archie Earchman, and was successful in recruiting talented hockey players in the fall of 1916.


--- [Winnipeg Falcons] ---
The Winnipeg Falcons was a hockey team of the early 20th century that was made up almost solely of players of Icelandic heritage. In 1920, they won Olympic gold in Antwerp, Belgium, in the first Olympic hockey tournament. Although some sources have identified the Toronto Granites as the first Canadian Olympic hockey team to win gold (at the 1924 Olympic Winter Games), Hockey Canada and the Canadian Olympic Hall of Fame now recognize the Falcons as the first Canadians (and the first team ever) to win Olympic gold in the sport. In addition to the commendations that went with the first-ever Olympic gold medal in hockey, the triumph of the 1920 Winnipeg Falcons is a story of perseverance over adversity and underdogs beating long odds. Creation of the Falcons In the beginning, the Falcons Hockey Club was an amalgamation of two rival Manitoba teams made up almost solely of players of Icelandic heritage, players who loved their sport but were discriminated against because of their immigrant background and were not allowed to participate in the mainstream leagues of the Winnipeg region. In the late 1890s, the Vikings and the Icelandic Athletic Club created their own opportunities and became heated rivals in hockey competition (as in other sports). Attrition among the clubs’ players, however, caused the rivalry to cool and led the two sides to combine, forming the Falcons in around 1910. The Falcons joined the Monarchs, Winnipegs, Kenora and Brandon to form the Manitoba Independent League, an intermediate league. Early success was difficult, but by 1912–13, two eventual Olympic heroes, Konnie Johannesson and Frank Fredrickson, were among the club’s young recruits. The team improved to win the independent league’s title in 1915 and finally achieved one of its long-sought goals — to join the city leagues — when it was admitted to the B section of the Winnipeg Senior League. Many players from the local leagues, including the Falcons, served their country in the First World War. The conflict caused heartache for families far and wide; two early Falcons lost their lives for their country: Frank “Buster” Thorsteinson and George Cumbers. (See also Frank Thorsteinson and the Winnipeg Falcons at War.) A Winning Team When the war was over, the main Falcons team was re-assembled — Johannesson, Fredrickson, Bobby Benson, goalie Wally Byron, trainer Gordon Sigurjonsson and team president Hebbie Axford were among the team members who returned from service overseas. In the 1919–20 season, the team was accepted into Winnipeg’s senior hockey league, in a division that included Selkirk and Brandon. The team was focused that season and under coach Fred "Steamer" Maxwell, they emerged as the Manitoba League champions after a legendary struggle against the Selkirk Fishermen. The championship series was won 11–6, the second game a double-overtime classic at the old Amphitheatre arena that saw the Falcons rally from a 5–1 deficit to win the game 6–5 on a sudden-death goal by Slim Halderson. Next, the Falcons prevailed over the Fort William Maple Leafs to claim the Western Hockey championship. And in an unexpectedly easy romp, they defeated the favoured University of Toronto club 11–5 in a two-game series to win the Allan Cup and qualify as Canada’s Olympic entry to the Games in Antwerp, Belgium. The 1920 Olympic Games In late April 1920, the Falcons were big favourites and didn’t disappoint, rolling up a tally of 29–1 as they skated to the gold. This included a 15–0 win over Czechoslovakia, a hard-fought 2–0 win over the United States and a 12–1 decision over Sweden that completed the single-knockout tournament. In a show of sportsmanship, the Falcons gave their sticks to the Swedish team as a memento. The victories and gold medal were huge events across the country, if the newspapers of the day are any indication. The Toronto Globe, for example, reported not only on the Olympic victory, but also on the Falcons’ earlier success in the Western Hockey championship and the Allan Cup. A Globe reporter likened their Olympic performance to the “gallantry of Canadian troops on Belgian soil in the defense of Ypres in the Great War” (27 April 1920). When the victory was announced in the House of Commons, the “entire House” responded with “enthusiastic applause” (Globe, 27 April 1920). On 17 May, the team met with a “rousing, warm-hearted welcome” from officials, dignitaries, and a crowd of at least 2,000 people in Toronto, one of their stops on the way home (Globe, 17 and 18 May 1920). Upon the team’s return to Winnipeg in May, there was a mile-long parade of more than 200 cars, trucks and horse-drawn vehicles, the Manitoba Free Press noted, and the city proclaimed a half-day holiday to celebrate the return of the champions. On 22 May 1920, a packed civic banquet was staged in their honour at the Fort Garry Hotel, where the city presented the team with gold watches. The 25 May 1920 edition of the Manitoba Free Press also reported that C.C. Robinson, western trustee of the Allan Cup, toasted the Falcons and their quick rise to supremacy. The paper reported that Robinson had said he and other “hockey moguls” had to “apologize for the indifference with which they had first regarded the Falcons [and that] this wonderful team had placed Winnipeg at the top of the cities of Canada and had helped make Canada known among nations.” The article also noted that Winnipeg’s Icelandic people were exceptionally proud of the Falcons’ achievements, noting that the parents of almost all the players had come from Iceland to settle in the area in the previous 45 years and that the “champions of the seventh Olympiad” had all been born in and around Winnipeg. Team members, said the article, told their fans that that their proudest moment after the gold-medal win was their welcome home by Winnipeggers. After the dream year, the Falcons were in high demand by professional teams across the country. The club’s junior squad, the Junior Falcons, captured the Memorial Cup the next year (1921). However, over time, the victory and the stories faded from the collective memory as the players moved on and eventually passed away. Honouring the Falcons Few Canadians remembered or recognized the Falcons’ victory at the Olympic Games of 1920 — until, that is, the decision by Hockey Canada to honour Canada’s Olympic Hockey Heritage for the 2002 Games in Salt Lake City. It was a fine idea, except for the fact that Hockey Canada had decided to honour the 1924 Toronto Granites as the first Olympic gold medallists. At the time, the common perception was that the gold won by the Falcons did not really count, as many thought that hockey was just a demonstration sport at the 1920 Olympic Games. This misconception may be due to the fact that the first Olympic Winter Games were not held until 1924; many have therefore assumed that the 1920 hockey tournament was only a demonstration sport. However, the 1920 Olympic Summer Games included official events in both figure skating and hockey. Although Hockey Canada assumed that the 1920 tournament was not an official Olympic event, others were working to honour the Falcons’ victory, including the Falcons Forever committee whose goal is to rediscover, celebrate and spread the story. Similarly, Konnie Johannesson’s son Brian, a computer programmer and designer, began the richly documented www.winnipegfalcons.com in 1999. Their efforts, combined with a public outcry from others familiar with the Falcons’ story, eventually convinced Hockey Canada of its mistake. “I remember one woman in Gimli [Manitoba] got very upset about it, [and] told everyone [that] what was happening was just nonsense and that they had better get their facts straight,” said Dan Johnson of the Falcons Forever committee. “I think Hockey Canada was caught off guard by it all but they came on board quickly and made the correct adjustments. This brought the Falcons back into the limelight, which was terrific because they were ignored for so long.” Johannesson praised Hockey Canada officials for reacting quickly. “Bob Nicholson [then Hockey Canada president] was so very co-operative. I sent him a couple of emails and got very nice replies; he realized that somebody had blundered and he was going to fix it.” In addition to Hockey Canada, other organizations have recognized the Falcons’ victory. The Falcons were inducted into the Canadian Olympic Committee Hall of Fame in 2006, and a new display honouring the 1920 gold medallists is housed in the main concourse of Winnipeg’s MTS Centre, home of the NHL’s Winnipeg Jets. The Hockey Hall of Fame, the game’s shrine in downtown Toronto, has also upgraded their coverage of the Falcons, from a small 8-by-10 inch photo of the Falcons to a larger display that includes Konnie Johannesson’s actual jersey, his gold medal and a pair of his skates. “There’s always been this fuss that we should put something about the Falcons [in] the museum in Gimli,” Brian Johannesson said. “But my [position] was that they get 1,000 people a year, and the Hockey Hall of Fame gets more than 1,000 a day, so that’s why I put the jersey in the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto.” Icelandic Canadian Heroes “Our history isn’t well known — very little about these fellows and what they went through to get where they did,” said Dan Johnson, a long-time member of the Falcons Forever committee. Johnson was born in the Icelandic community of Gimli, Manitoba, and later moved to Winnipeg. “It wasn’t easy for them,” Johnson said. “But there’s ... a terrific sense of pride about their story. Like a lot of immigrant groups, their language and their culture and their activities were private affairs. But one of their main objectives was to be Canadians.” Note: Dan Johnson and Brian Johannesson were interviewed by the author in 2012. | Olympic Team Roster | | | Hebbie Axford | Club President | | Bill Fridfinnson | Club Secretary-Treasurer | | Fred “Steamer” Maxwell | Coach/Manager | | Gordon Sigurjonsson | Trainer | | W.A. Hewitt | Olympic Team Manager | | Bobby Benson | Left Defence | | Wally Byron | Goal | | Frank Fredrickson | Centre | | Chris Fridfinnson | Substitute Rover | | Mike Goodman | Left Wing | | Hallie “Slim” Halderson | Right Wing | | Konnie Johannesson | Right Defence | | Allan “Huck” Woodman | Substitute Forward |


--- [1920 Winnipeg Falcons Men's Hockey Team - Team Canada] ---
1920 Winnipeg Falcons Men’s Hockey Team Four years before the first Olympic Winter Games, ice hockey made its Olympic debut at Antwerp 1920. The tournament was held in April, several months prior to most of the other Olympic competitions which took place in late August. Canada was represented by the Winnipeg Falcons, who had just won the Allan Cup – the national amateur hockey championship. The Falcons had been founded in 1911 by players of Icelandic descent who were not welcomed into the existing men’s senior hockey scene in Winnipeg. In 1916, every Falcons player enlisted to join The Great War. Two of the men – Frank “Buster” Thorsteinson and George Cumbers – lost their lives and were laid to rest in France. The rest returned to Canada and in the summer of 1919, they re-organized the hockey team. Just a few months later, they were on a train to Toronto for the Allan Cup final, and just days after that victory, they boarded a boat to Belgium. With the Americans delayed by bad weather, Canada and the other invited teams – Belgium, France, Czechoslovakia, Switzerland and Sweden – held practices. The skill and style of play displayed by the Falcons was eye-opening to the Europeans and their opponents had to quickly pull together more protective equipment. It was not entirely unexpected, then, that the Canadians dominated the competition. In their first game on April 24, the Falcons defeated Czechoslovakia 15-0 without allowing a single shot on goal. The next day’s semifinal against the United States was much closer, but Canada came out on top, 2-0. The final on April 26 saw Canada defeat Sweden 12-1 to claim the first ever Olympic gold medal in ice hockey. The team’s leading scorer was Frank Fredrickson, who notched 12 of the Falcons’ 29 goals in the tournament. Slim Halderson added nine goals to the tally.
