=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Arthur C. Wade - Wikipedia]
Wade (December 12, 1852 – August 21, 1914) was an American lawyer and politician from New York. ... law degree and getting admitted to the state bar in 1877.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_C._Wade

[Arthur C. Wade - EverybodyWiki Bios & Wiki]
Arthur C. Wade (December 12, 1852 - August 21, 1914) was an American lawyer and politician from New York.
URL: https://en.everybodywiki.com/Arthur_C._Wade

[Index to Politicians: Wade]
Candidate for New York state comptroller, 1891; member of New York state assembly from Chautauqua County 1st District, 1904-06. Burial location unknown. Wade, ...
URL: https://politicalgraveyard.com/bio/wade.html

[Timeline]
Founded in 1940 under the leadership of Thurgood Marshall, LDF was launched at a time when the nation's aspirations for equality and due process of law were ...
URL: https://ldfrecollection.org/learn/timeline

[Arthur C. Wade Explained]
What is Arthur C. Wade? Arthur C. Wade was an American lawyer and politician from New York.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Arthur_C._Wade/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Arthur C. Wade - Wikipedia] ---
Arthur C. Wade (December 12, 1852 – August 21, 1914) was an American lawyer and politician from New York.


--- [Arthur C. Wade - EverybodyWiki Bios & Wiki] ---
No content


--- [Index to Politicians: Wade] ---
| WADE (Soundex W300) — See also DAWE, EADE, HADE, HOLSWADE, MCWADE, OADE, WADEL, WADELL, WADEWITZ, WADY, WAID, WAIDE, WALDE, WARDE, WAUD, WAYDE, WEAD, WEDDA, WEEDA, WYDE. | | | WADE: See also William Joseph Allee — Jeffrey Wade Allender — Thomas Edward Austin — Wade H. Ballard II — Wade Hampton Ballard III — Wade Barber — Shaun Wade Bennett — Wade Blackard — Wade Brorby — Wade Brown — Thomas Wade Bruton — Wade Bynum — Wade Calvin — Wade Clark — John Henry Clifford — Wade H. Cloyd — Levi Wade Coberly — Wade R. Coffey — Ellen Maria Colfax — Jerome Taylor Congleton — Jackie Wade Copeland — James Wade Copley — William Ashmead Courtenay — Wade Crawford — Wade H. Creekmore — Wade H. Crowder Jr. — Wade Cushing — Mrs. Wade Cushing — William Barton Wade Dent — Wade DeWoody — Jerome Dinwiddie — William Wade Dudley — Wade H. Ellis — Wade H. Fisher — Wade H. Fowler — Wade H. Franklin — Wade J. Freeman Jr. — Wade Frogley — Wade Fulmer — Wade Gaddis — Wade H. Garrett — Wade E. Gayer — Wade H. Gibbes — Wade Glasscock — Wade A. Graham — Wade Hamilton — Wade Hampton — Wade Hampton — Wade Hampton III — Wade Hampton — Wade Hampton Jr. — Wade Hampton — J. Wade Hampton — Wade H. Harris — Wade Harrison — Erland Harold Hedrick — W. Wade Heritage — Wade L. Hopping — Wade M. Hudson — Francis Wade Hughes — J. Wade Hughston — Ellis Wade Hurst — Wade A. Hyslop Jr. — Wade H. Insley Sr. — Amos Wade Jackson — Douglas Wade Jones — A. Wade Kach — Wade Kach — Wade Kapszukiewicz — Wade Rutledge Keyes — Wade Keyes — Wade Hampton Kitchens — Curtis Wade Krumel — Wade Hampton Lasseter — Robert Bartlett Lee — Gerald Wade Lewis — Wade Logsdon — James Bernard Longley — Klarenc Wade Mak — Wade Mallard — Wade O. Martin Jr. — Wade H. Massie — Wade W. Maupin — Mrs. Wade Maupin — Wade Hampton McCree Jr. — Wade H. McReynolds — Wade E. Miller — Thomas Wade Moore — Ann Wade O'Neil — Wade R. Parks — R. Wade Pearson — Wade H. Pepper — Wade Hampton Phillips — Wade W. Phillips — Wade H. Phyfer — James Lee Rankin — Wade Reavis — Wade M. Reeser — Henry Wade Rogers — Wade Preston Salmon Jr. — Lavetta Sparks-Wade — Louis Wade Sullivan — Wade Taylor — Wade A. Thode — Wade Thompson — Marthena Wade Vanlandingham — Wade Van Valkenberg — Jimmie Wade Waters — Wesley Wade Watkins — Wade Stackhouse Weatherford Jr. — Wade P. Webster — Wade Weems — Wade White — Wade Wilson — Wade Wooldridge — William Wade Zedler | | | Wade, Albert R. — of Brockton, Plymouth County, Mass. Republican. Mayor of Brockton, Mass., 1888-89; defeated, 1889. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Alfred B. — of South Bend, St. Joseph County, Ind. Republican. Postmaster at South Bend, Ind., 1869-77. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Allison D. (1902-1954) — of Warren, Warren County, Pa. Born in Warren, Warren County, Pa., September 17, 1902. Republican. District judge in Pennsylvania 37th District, 1942-54; died in office 1954; alternate delegate to Republican National Convention from Pennsylvania, 1944. Shot and killed by Norman W. Moon, in the courtroom of the Warren County Courthouse, Warren, Warren County, Pa., January 13, 1954 (age 51 years, 118 days). Moon, who attempted suicide at the time of his arrest, believed the judge was involved with his ex-wife, and would personally benefit from ordering payment of alimony. Moon was convicted of first degree murder and sentenced to death; the sentence was commuted to a mental institution by Gov. George M. Leader, and then to life imprisonment. Interment at Oakland Cemetery, Warren, Pa. | | | Relatives: Son of Harrison Douglas Wade and Alice Cary (Jones) Wade; married to Ruth Tillotson. | | | | See also Find-A-Grave memorial | | | | Wade, Alma — of Kenosha, Kenosha County, Wis. Democrat. Member of Wisconsin Democratic State Central Committee, 1936. Female. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Alonzo R. — of La Plata, Charles County, Md. Republican. Alternate delegate to Republican National Convention from Maryland, 1916. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Arthur C. — of Jamestown, Chautauqua County, N.Y. Republican. Candidate for New York state comptroller, 1891; member of New York state assembly from Chautauqua County 1st District, 1904-06. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Ben Walter See Ben Walter Hooper | | | Wade, Benjamin Franklin (1800-1878) — also known as Benjamin F. Wade — of Jefferson, Ashtabula County, Ohio. Born in Feeding Hills, Agawam, Hampden County, Mass., October 27, 1800. Republican. School teacher; lawyer; Ashtabula County Prosecuting Attorney, 1835-37; member of Ohio state senate, 1837-38, 1841-42; circuit judge in Ohio, 1847-51; U.S. Senator from Ohio, 1851-69; candidate for Republican nomination for Vice President, 1868. Died in Jefferson, Ashtabula County, Ohio, March 2, 1878 (age 77 years, 126 days). Interment at Oakdale Cemetery, Jefferson, Ohio. | | | Wade, C. M. — of Hot Springs, Garland County, Ark. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Arkansas, 1908 (alternate), 1912. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, C. T. — of Illinois. Republican. Candidate for U.S. Representative from Illinois 23rd District, 1928. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Carl R. — of Tompkins County, N.Y. Democrat. Candidate for New York state assembly from Tompkins County, 1922. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Carolyn G. — Libertarian. Libertarian candidate for Presidential Elector for Oregon, 2020 (on behalf of Jo Jorgensen and Jeremy Cohen). Female. Still living as of 2020. | | | Wade, Carrie L. — of Hingham, Plymouth County, Mass. Republican. Alternate delegate to Republican National Convention from Massachusetts, 1936. Female. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Charles A. — of Frostburg, Allegany County, Md. Mayor of Frostburg, Md., 1893-94. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Charles F. — of Los Banos, Merced County, Calif. Postmaster at Los Banos, Calif., 1901. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Charles L. — of Vandalia, Fayette County, Ill. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Illinois, 1904. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Clifton See George Clifton Wade | | | Wade, Crystal — Democrat. Candidate for New York state senate 36th District, 2004, 2006. Female. Still living as of 2006. | | | Wade, Daniel — of Wayne County, Mich. Candidate for Michigan state senate 2nd District, 1916. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, David — of Essex County, N.J. Member of New Jersey state house of assembly from Essex County, 1850-51. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, David — of Dallas, Dallas County, Tex. Candidate for mayor of Dallas, Tex., 1971. Still living as of 1971. | | | Wade, David — Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Connecticut, 1996. Still living as of 1996. | | | Wade, David E. — of Harrisburg, Dauphin County, Pa. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Pennsylvania, 1972. Still living as of 1972. | | | Wade, Decius Spear (1835-1905) — also known as Decius Wade; "Father of Montana Jurisprudence" — of Andover, Ashtabula County, Ohio. Born in Andover, Ashtabula County, Ohio, January 23, 1835. Lawyer; novelist; Ashtabula County Probate Judge, 1861-67; member of Ohio state senate, 1868; chief justice of Montana territorial supreme court, 1871-87. Died in Andover, Ashtabula County, Ohio, August 3, 1905 (age 70 years, 192 days). Interment at Oakdale Cemetery, Jefferson, Ohio. | | | Wade, Edna — of Mobile, Mobile County, Ala. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Alabama, 1972. Female. Still living as of 1972. | | | Wade, Edward (1802-1866) — of Andover, Ashtabula County, Ohio; Jefferson, Ashtabula County, Ohio; Unionville, Ashtabula County, Ohio; Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, Ohio. Born in West Springfield, Hampden County, Mass., November 22, 1802. Lawyer; Ashtabula County Justice of the Peace, 1831; Ashtabula County Prosecuting Attorney, 1833; U.S. Representative from Ohio 19th District, 1853-61. Died in East Cleveland, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, August 13, 1866 (age 63 years, 264 days). Interment at Woodland Cemetery, Cleveland, Ohio. | | | Wade, Edward Clemens (1830-1911) — also known as Edward C. Wade — of Savannah, Chatham County, Ga. Born in Whitfield County, Ga., August 25, 1830. Republican. Merchant; delegate to Republican National Convention from Georgia, 1876, 1880; U.S. Collector of Internal Revenue at Savannah, Georgia, 1879. Died in Jefferson Parish, La., April 5, 1911 (age 80 years, 223 days). Interment at Laurel Grove North Cemetery, Savannah, Ga. | | | Relatives: Son of Barthenia (Middlebrooks) Wade and Jesse Perkins Wade; married to Sarah Elizabeth Erwin. | | | | Personal motto: "The Wade who never seceded." | | | | See also Find-A-Grave memorial | | | | Wade, Edwin Winslow (1903-1976) — also known as Edwin W. Wade — of Long Beach, Los Angeles County, Calif. Born in Jamestown, Stutsman County, N.Dak., October 15, 1903. Mayor of Long Beach, Calif., 1960-75. Member, Freemasons; Order of the Eastern Star; Elks; Navy League. Died in June, 1976 (age 72 years, 0 days). Burial location unknown. | | | Relatives: Son of Harry M. Wade and Marian A. (Eaton) Wade; married, November 18, 1925, to Mary Bruce Garrick. | | | | Wade, Elaine T. — of Georgia. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Georgia, 2000. Female. Still living as of 2000. | | | Wade, Elizabeth — of Albany, Albany County, N.Y. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from New York, 1984. Female. Still living as of 1984. | | | Wade, Ellen Maria See Ellen Maria Colfax | | | Wade, Erin — Justice For All candidate for Presidential Elector for Washington, 2024 (on behalf of Cornel R. West and Melina Abdullah). Female. Still living as of 2024. | | | Wade, Frank — of Princeton, Gibson County, Ind. Democrat. Mayor of Princeton, Ind., 1984-88. Still living as of 1988. | | | Wade, Frank B. (1886-1944) — of Flint, Genesee County, Mich. Born in 1886. Republican. Member of Michigan state house of representatives from Genesee County 1st District, 1927-32; defeated, 1932; candidate for Michigan state senate 13th District, 1938. Died in 1944 (age about 58 years). Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Frank C. — of Howe, LaGrange County, Ind. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Indiana, 1924. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Fred (b. 1862) — of Saugatuck, Allegan County, Mich. Born in Douglas, Allegan County, Mich., June 29, 1862. Republican. Newspaper publisher; postmaster; member of Michigan state house of representatives, 1921-26, 1929-32 (Allegan County 2nd District 1921-26, Allegan County 1929-32); defeated in primary, 1932. English ancestry. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Fred O. — of Ozark, Christian County, Mo. Republican. Mayor of Ozark, Mo., 1945. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, G. R. — of Malcolm, Charles County, Md. Republican. Alternate delegate to Republican National Convention from Maryland, 1932. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, George — of Bridgeport, Fairfield County, Conn. Whig. Postmaster at Bridgeport, Conn., 1849-53. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, George Clifton (b. 1910) — also known as Clifton Wade — of Fayetteville, Washington County, Ark. Born in Arkansas City, Desha County, Ark., January 25, 1910. Democrat. Lawyer; served in the U.S. Army Air Force in World War II; member of Arkansas state house of representatives, 1947-54; delegate to Democratic National Convention from Arkansas, 1952, 1956 (alternate), 1960; member of Arkansas state senate, 1955-67. Methodist. Member, American Bar Association; Amvets; American Legion; Lions. Burial location unknown. | | | Relatives: Son of H. Lynn Wade and Sallie Tyler (Clifton) Wade; married, December 28, 1928, to Vera Drake. | | | | Wade, George N. (b. 1893) — of Camp Hill, Cumberland County, Pa. Born in Emlenton, Venango County, Pa., August 13, 1893. Republican. Served in the U.S. Army during World War I; member of Pennsylvania state house of representatives, 1930-32; member of Pennsylvania state senate 31st District, 1941-74. Member, American Legion. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Mrs. Gilbert — of Minnehaha Springs, Pocahontas County, W.Va. Republican. Member of West Virginia Republican State Executive Committee, 1937. Female. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Gilbert C. — of Erwin, Kingsbury County, S.Dak. Farmer; member of South Dakota state house of representatives 22nd District, 1899-1902. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Glen B. (b. 1898) — of Wellsburg, Brooke County, W.Va. Born in Moundsville, Marshall County, W.Va., February 27, 1898. Republican. Served in the U.S. Army Air Corps in World War I; merchant; member of West Virginia state house of delegates from Brooke County, 1935-36; defeated, 1936. Presbyterian. Member, Freemasons; American Legion. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, H. C. — of Batesville, Independence County, Ark. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Arkansas, 1912 (alternate), 1916 (alternate), 1920. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, H. King — of Hot Springs, Garland County, Ark. Democrat. Alternate delegate to Democratic National Convention from Arkansas, 1952. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Harry — Socialist. Socialist Labor candidate for Presidential Elector for Pennsylvania, 1956. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Harry — of Camden County, N.J. Socialist. Socialist Labor candidate for New Jersey state house of assembly from Camden County, 1961, 1963; Socialist Labor candidate for Presidential Elector for New Jersey, 1964. Still living as of 1964. | | | Wade, Henry A. — of Pennsylvania. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Pennsylvania, 1864. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Henry Menasco (1914-2001) — also known as Henry M. Wade; "The Chief" — of Texas. Born in Rockwall County, Tex., November 11, 1914. Democrat. FBI special agent; served in the U.S. Navy during World War II; lawyer; Dallas County District Attorney, 1951-86; candidate for U.S. Representative from Texas 5th District, 1956. Member, Phi Beta Kappa; Order of the Coif. As District Attorney, he prosecuted Jack Ruby in 1964 for the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald, the assassin of President John F. Kennedy. Also in his role as District Attorney, he was the named defendant in the Supreme Court's landmark 1973 abortion decision, Roe v. Wade. Died, from complications of Parkinson's disease, in Dallas, Dallas County, Tex., March 1, 2001 (age 86 years, 110 days). Interment at Sparkman Hillcrest Memorial Park, Dallas, Tex. | | | Wade, Herbert — Independence League candidate for U.S. Representative from New York 14th District, 1908. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Hubert See J. Hubert Wade | | | Wade, Hugh J. — of Juneau, Alaska. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Alaska Territory, 1956; secretary of state of Alaska, 1959-66. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Isaac E. — of Houston, Harris County, Tex. Whig. Postmaster at Houston, Tex., 1849-50. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Isaac S. — of Indiana. Prohibition candidate for U.S. Representative from Indiana 10th District, 1904, 1908. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, J. H. — Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Ohio, 1880. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, J. Hubert — of Boonsboro, Washington County, Md. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Maryland, 1916. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, James — of Sullivan, Franklin County, Mo. Democrat. Chair of Franklin County Democratic Party, 1939. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, James — of Indianapolis, Marion County, Ind. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Indiana, 2008. Still living as of 2008. | | | Wade, James L. — Constitution candidate for Presidential Elector for Texas, 2012 (on behalf of Virgil H. Goode, Jr. and James N. Clymer); Constitution candidate for Presidential Elector for Texas, 2016 (on behalf of Darrell L. Castle and Scott Bradley). Still living as of 2016. | | | Wade, James R. — of St. Louis, Mo. U.S. Collector of Customs at St. Louis, Mo., Missouri, 1946-47. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, James U. — of Russellville, Logan County, Ky. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Kentucky, 1924. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, John — of Woburn, Middlesex County, Mass. Postmaster at Woburn, Mass., 1811-16. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, John — of Hudson County, N.J. Member of New Jersey state house of assembly from Hudson County, 1885. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, John F. — of Bristol, Hartford County, Conn. Democrat. Warden (borough president) of Bristol, Connecticut, 1904; mayor of Bristol, Conn., 1922-27. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, John F., Jr. (born c.1889) — of Plainville, Hartford County, Conn. Born in Jacksonville, Duval County, Fla., about 1889. Democrat. Member of Connecticut state house of representatives from Plainville, 1919-20. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Julius J. — of Dunn, Harnett County, N.C. Postmaster at Dunn, N.C., 1887. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Kevin — Republican. Candidate for U.S. Senator from Delaware, 2012, 2014. Still living as of 2014. | | | Wade, King See H. King Wade | | | Wade, L. Whitney — of Douglas, Coffee County, Ga. Democrat. Alternate delegate to Democratic National Convention from Georgia, 1968. Still living as of 1968. | | | Wade, Larry — of Elk City, Beckham County, Okla. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Oklahoma, 1976. Still living as of 1976. | | | Wade, Lester Andrew (b. 1889) — also known as Lester A. Wade — of Ogden, Weber County, Utah; Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, Utah. Born in Pleasant View, Weber County, Utah, July 8, 1889. Democrat. Lawyer; district judge in Utah, 1933-43; justice of Utah state supreme court, 1943-66; chief justice of Utah state supreme court, 1961-63. Mormon. Member, American Bar Association. Burial location unknown. | | | Relatives: Son of James Monroe Wade and Isabelle Maria (Crandall) Wade; married, June 10, 1920, to Nellie Vanderwerff. | | | | Wade, Levi C. — Speaker of the Massachusetts State House of Representatives, 1879. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Marthena See Marthena Wade Vanlandingham | | | Wade, Martin Joseph (1861-1931) — also known as Martin J. Wade — of Iowa City, Johnson County, Iowa. Born in Burlington, Chittenden County, Vt., October 20, 1861. Democrat. Lawyer; district judge in Iowa 8th District, 1893-1903; law professor; U.S. Representative from Iowa 2nd District, 1903-05; candidate for Democratic nomination for Vice President, 1912; speaker, Democratic National Convention, 1912 ; member of Democratic National Committee from Iowa, 1912; U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, 1915-31; died in office 1931. Member, American Bar Association. Died in Los Angeles, Los Angeles County, Calif., April 16, 1931 (age 69 years, 178 days). Interment at St. Joseph's Cemetery, Iowa City, Iowa. | | | Wade, Mary A. — of Alviso (now part of San Jose), Santa Clara County, Calif. Republican. Postmaster at Alviso, Calif., 1873-89. Female. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Mortimer — of Johnstown, Fulton County, N.Y. Member of New York state assembly from Fulton and Hamilton counties, 1871; postmaster at Johnstown, N.Y., 1883-88. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, N. A. — of Butler, Bates County, Mo. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Missouri, 1876; postmaster at Butler, Mo., 1887. Burial location unknown. | | Wade, Nancy — of Chicago, Cook County, Ill. Green. Candidate for U.S. Representative from Illinois 5th District, 2012; Green candidate for Presidential Elector for Illinois, 2012 (on behalf of Jill Stein and Cheri Honkala); Green candidate for Presidential Elector for Illinois, 2016 (on behalf of Jill Stein and Ajamu Baraka). Female. Still living as of 2016. | | | Image source: Campaign web site | | | | Wade, Ney — of Rockwall, Rockwall County, Tex. Democrat. Alternate delegate to Democratic National Convention from Texas, 1944. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Nicholas R. — of Kenosha, Kenosha County, Wis. Mayor of Kenosha, Wis., 1953. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Oakley — of Las Animas, Bent County, Colo. Republican. Member of Colorado state house of representatives, 1950; alternate delegate to Republican National Convention from Colorado, 1952. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Paschal B. — of Big Lick, Botetourt County (now Roanoke), Va. Postmaster at Big Lick, Va., 1829-31. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Patricia A. — of Muskegon, Muskegon County, Mich. Democrat. Alternate delegate to Democratic National Convention from Michigan, 2008. Female. Still living as of 2008. | | | Wade, Rick — of Columbia, Richland County, S.C. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from South Carolina, 2004. Still living as of 2004. | | | Wade, Robert H. — of Chepachet, Glocester, Providence County, R.I. Member of Rhode Island state senate from Glocester, 1911. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Robert P. — of New Castle County, Del. Democrat. Candidate for Delaware state senate from New Castle County 1st District, 1950. Presumed deceased. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Roger C. — of Muskegon, Muskegon County, Mich. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Michigan, 1996. Still living as of 1996. | | | Wade, Ron — of Longview, Gregg County, Tex. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Texas, 1988. Still living as of 1988. | | | Wade, Roy J. — of Michigan. Democrat. Candidate for U.S. Representative from Michigan 4th District, 1916. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, S. J. — of Scott County, Mo. Member of Missouri state house of representatives from Scott County, 1907-10. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Sharon L. Reynolds — also known as Sharon L. Wade — Constitution candidate for Presidential Elector for Texas, 2012 (on behalf of Virgil H. Goode, Jr. and James N. Clymer); Constitution candidate for Presidential Elector for Texas, 2016 (on behalf of Darrell L. Castle and Scott Bradley). Female. Still living as of 2016. | | | Wade, Sherman — Democrat. Member of Wisconsin state senate 30th District; elected 1932. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Stacey W. (b. 1875) — Born in Morehead City, Carteret County, N.C., August 18, 1875. Democrat. Vice-president, Carteret Ice Company; director, Bank of Carteret; member finance committee, Atlantic and North Carolina Railroad; North Carolina insurance commissioner, 1921; secretary of state of North Carolina, 1935. Methodist. Member, Freemasons; Knights Templar; Shriners. Burial location unknown. | | | Relatives: Son of David B. Wade and Sarah (Royal) Wade; married 1905 to Miss Clyde Mann. | | | | Wade, Stephen R. — of Upland, San Bernardino County, Calif. Democrat. Alternate delegate to Democratic National Convention from California, 1988. Still living as of 1988. | | | Wade, T. W. — of Greene County, Mo. Member of Missouri state house of representatives from Greene County 2nd District, 1897-98. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, T. W. — of Nashville, Davidson County, Tenn. Republican. Alternate delegate to Republican National Convention from Tennessee, 1932. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Theodosius (b. 1858) — of Allegan County, Mich. Born in 1858. Republican. Member of Michigan state house of representatives from Allegan County 2nd District, 1901-04. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Tom L. — of Marlow, Stephens County, Okla. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Indian Territory, 1904 (member, Platform and Resolutions Committee); delegate to Democratic National Convention from Oklahoma, 1912. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Victor M. — of Batesville, Independence County, Ark. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Arkansas, 1924 (alternate), 1928, 1948; candidate for U.S. Senator from Arkansas, 1944. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Whitney See L. Whitney Wade | | | Wade, William — Libertarian. Candidate for U.S. Representative from California 11th District, 1988. Still living as of 1988. | | | Wade, William B. — of Baltimore, Md. Republican. Alternate delegate to Republican National Convention from Maryland, 1924. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, William H. — of Richmond Hill, Queens, Queens County, N.Y. Republican. Republican candidate for Presidential Elector for New York, 1912. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, William Henry (1835-1911) — also known as William H. Wade — of Springfield, Greene County, Mo. Born near Springfield, Clark County, Ohio, November 3, 1835. Republican. Served in the Union Army during the Civil War; farmer; member of Missouri state house of representatives, 1881-84, 1907-10 (Greene County 1881-82, Greene County Western District 1883-84, Greene County 2nd District 1907-10); U.S. Representative from Missouri 13th District, 1885-91; defeated, 1890. Died in Springfield, Greene County, Mo., January 13, 1911 (age 75 years, 71 days). Interment at Maple Park Cemetery, Springfield, Mo. | | | Wade, William M. — of Woodward, Dallas County, Iowa. Democrat. Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Iowa, 1924; candidate for U.S. Representative from Iowa 7th District, 1924, 1926. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, William S. — of Springfield, Greene County, Mo. Republican. Delegate to Republican National Convention from Missouri, 1916. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Willis G. — of Wayne County, N.Y. Member of New York state assembly from Wayne County 1st District, 1854. Burial location unknown. | | | Wade, Z. — of Titusville, Crawford County, Pa. Burgess of Titusville, Pennsylvania, 1860. Burial location unknown. | | |


--- [Timeline] ---
Timeline Explore more than 80 years of bold and visionary civil rights leadership. The Legal Defense Fund (LDF) was founded under the leadership of Thurgood Marshall in 1940, at a time when the nation’s aspirations for justice and due process of law were stifled by widespread state-sponsored racial inequality. This timeline chronicles LDF’s journey from that era to the present. Through it all, LDF’s mission has always been transformative: to achieve racial justice, equality, and inclusivity. Filter by impact area - - 1929-1935 - Charles Hamilton Houston Charles Hamilton Houston (1895-1950) trains Howard University School of Law students to challenge the legal barriers of segregation, later leading to the founding of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. (LDF). One of his mentees is Thurgood Marshall. Houston leaves Howard in 1935 to serve as the NAACP’s first General Counsel, playing a pivotal role in nearly every U.S. Supreme Court case in the two decades before the landmark Brown v. Board of Education ruling in 1954. - This fight for equality of educational opportunity [was] not an isolated struggle. All our struggles must tie in together and support one another. … We must remain on the alert and push the struggle farther with all our might. - - - - 1936 - Pearson v. Murray The Maryland Court of Appeals affirms the lower court ruling that the University of Maryland School of Law’s exclusion of Black applicants violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and it orders the school to immediately integrate its student population and admit a Black applicant. The case is the first by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) to test the “separate but equal” doctrine. - - 1938 - Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada The U.S. Supreme Court finds that denying a Black applicant admission to the University of Missouri School of Law violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - - - 1940 - LDF is Founded LDF is founded as the legal arm of the NAACP on March 20 under the leadership of Thurgood Marshall (1908-1993). He serves as its first Director-Counsel until 1961. - The process of democracy is one of change. Our laws are not frozen into immutable form; they are constantly in the process of revision in response to the needs of a changing society. - Chambers v. Florida The U.S. Supreme Court overturns the capital convictions of four Black men accused of murdering an elderly white man because the confessions used to convict them were coerced by the state, in violation of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution’s right to due process. - Alston v. School Board of City of Norfolk The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit holds that paying Black teachers less than their white counterparts violates the Equal Protection and Due Process clauses of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and it orders equal pay for Black and white public school teachers. - Abbington v. Board of Education of Louisville In the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, a Black teacher challenges the 15% pay disparity between herself and her white colleagues as a violation of the Kentucky Constitution, state statutes, and the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The settlement in the case leads to the removal of the pay discrepancy between Black and white teachers in Louisville, Kentucky, public schools. - - 1944 - Smith v. Allwright The U.S. Supreme Court finds that the exclusion of Black voters from the Democratic primary in Texas violates the 14th and 15th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - - 1945 - Constance Baker Motley Constance Baker Motley is hired as a law clerk at LDF and is promoted to Assistant Special Counsel in 1949. She is LDF’s first Black female attorney—working on all LDF’s major school desegregation cases through 1964—and the first Black woman to argue before the U.S. Supreme Court. Motley would later become the first Black woman to serve as a federal judge. Learn more about Constance Baker Motley. - - 1946 - Morgan v. Virginia The U.S. Supreme Court strikes down a Virginia law requiring segregated seating on interstate buses as unconstitutional under the Interstate Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution. - - 1947 - Patton v. Mississippi The U.S. Supreme Court reverses a murder conviction and capital sentence obtained through a jury selection process that for decades systematically excluded Black citizens from serving on criminal juries. The Court holds that a jury selection process that discriminates against Black jurors violates the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 1948 - Sipuel v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma The U.S. Supreme Court orders the admission of qualified Black students to previously all-white state law schools in compliance with the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - Shelley v. Kraemer The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits courts from enforcing racially restrictive covenants. - - - - 1950 - McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents The U.S. Supreme Court finds that, consistent with the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, a Black student admitted to a formerly all-white graduate school cannot be subjected to segregation practices that interfere with meaningful classroom instruction and interaction with other students. - Sweatt v. Painter The U.S. Supreme Court finds that establishing a separate and inferior law school for Black students to justify their exclusion from the all-white University of Texas Law School violates the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 1953 - Barrows v. Jackson The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits an individual from being sued for damages for breaking a racially restrictive covenant and selling to a non-white person. - - 1954 - Brown v. Board of Education In this landmark case, which consolidated five related cases including Brown, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously strikes down segregation in public schools, ending the “separate but equal” doctrine set in the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson case. - Bolling v. Sharpe The U.S. Supreme Court unanimously finds that racial segregation in the public schools of Washington, D.C., denies Black students due process of law as protected by the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. This is one of the five cases consolidated under Brown v. Board of Education. - - 1955 - Brown v. Board of Education II The U.S. Supreme Court orders all public schools in the United States to desegregate with “all deliberate speed” and eliminate any obstacles that would hinder immediate integration. - Lucy v. Adams The U.S. Supreme Court affirms a federal District Court’s decision barring the University of Alabama from denying applicants admission based on race. - - 1956 - State of Alabama v. Martin Luther King Jr. Martin Luther King Jr. is convicted in Alabama state court for violating an anti-boycotting law through his leadership of the Montgomery bus boycotts, marking a pivotal moment in the Civil Rights Movement. - Gayle v. Browder The U.S. Supreme Court summarily affirms a District Court decision declaring that segregation on city buses violates the Equal Protection and Due Process clauses of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 1957 - Fikes v. Alabama The U.S. Supreme Court overturns the death sentence of William Earl Fikes, a Black man, ruling that Alabama’s procedural failures and week-long isolation of Fikes violated his due process rights under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - Little Rock Nine President Dwight Eisenhower orders the National Guard to escort nine Black students to Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas. - - 1958 - Cooper v. Aaron The U.S. Supreme Court finds that the governor and state legislature of Arkansas cannot prevent Black students from integrating the Little Rock School District. The Court reaffirms the U.S. Constitution as the “supreme law of the land” under Article VI, meaning the Court’s interpretation of the 14th Amendment in Brown v. Board of Education is the supreme law of the land and schools must desegregate. - NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson The U.S. Supreme Court unanimously finds that the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution protects the free association rights of the NAACP and its rank-and-file members. - - 1959 - Resistance to Desegregation Prince Edward County, Virginia, closes all public schools rather than desegregate them. - - - - 1960 - Boynton v. Virginia The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the Interstate Commerce Act prohibits racial discrimination in bus terminal restaurants. - - 1961 - Jack Greenberg Jack Greenberg (1924-2016) succeeds Thurgood Marshall as LDF’s second Director-Counsel. He serves until 1984. - Brown continues to stand for Americans’ determination to live up to the ideals of their Constitution and for the proposition that our Supreme Court can be a catalyst for fundamental change. - Holmes v. Danner The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Georgia finds that the University of Georgia discriminated against qualified Black students, Hamilton E. Holmes and Charlayne A. Hunter, in violation of their equal protection and due process rights under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and orders the school to desegregate and grant their admission. - - 1962 - Meredith v. Fair U.S. Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black issues an in-chambers opinion vacating the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit’s order that would have prevented a Black student, civil rights activist James Meredith, from enrolling at the University of Mississippi, in violation of his equal protection rights under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. In issuing this opinion, the Court mandates the integration of the University of Mississippi. - - 1963 - Watson v. City of Memphis The U.S. Supreme Court declares that the City of Memphis’ delay in desegregating public parks and recreational facilities violates the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - Simkins v. Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital In a landmark ruling, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit states that private hospitals that receive federal funds cannot discriminate based on race against physicians and their patients under the Fifth and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. This marks the first time that federal courts apply the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to prohibit racial discrimination by a private entity. - - 1964 - LDF’s Jackson Office Marian Wright Edelman, the first Black woman admitted to the Mississippi bar, organizes LDF’s office in Jackson, Mississippi, where she handles more than 120 cases generated during the Freedom Summer. - Willis v. Pickrick Restaurant A three-judge panel in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia finds that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 requires a restaurant owned by Lester Maddox, the future governor of Georgia, to serve Black customers. - McLaughlin v. Florida The U.S. Supreme Court unanimously strikes down Florida’s anti-miscegenation statute that criminalizes interracial cohabitation. - Hamm v. City of Rock Hill The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 forbids discrimination in places of public accommodation, vacating the convictions of South Carolina and Arkansas demonstrators who participated in lunch counter sit-ins. - - 1965 - Williams v. Wallace The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Alabama affirms the rights of protesters under the First and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution and allows Martin Luther King Jr. to lead thousands in a five-day voting rights march from Selma, Alabama, to Montgomery, after prior attempts resulted in the “Bloody Sunday” police riot on the Edmund Pettus Bridge. LDF attorneys help draw up a safe and secure route for the marchers. - Selma to Montgomery March James Nabrit III and other LDF attorneys work with civil rights leaders to draw up a march route from Selma, Alabama, to Montgomery and support the voting rights march. - Abernathy v. Alabama; Thomas v. Mississippi The U.S. Supreme Court uses the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to reverse the state convictions of Deep South Freedom Riders, including Ralph D. Abernathy, who had been testing the efficacy of prior federal court rulings prohibiting segregation in transportation facilities that were issued well before the Civil Rights Act was passed. - - 1967 - Cypress v. Newport News General and Non-Sectarian Hospital Association The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit holds that, under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, a federally funded hospital cannot deny staff privileges to Black physicians. - National Office for the Rights of the Indigent LDF establishes the National Office for the Rights of the Indigent (NORI) on March 16 to litigate on behalf of poor people. NORI provides research and test-case support to private and legal aid lawyers. Jack Greenberg and Michael Meltsner are co-directors. - Walker v. City of Birmingham The U.S. Supreme Court upholds a contempt order against civil rights protesters, including Martin Luther King Jr., for marching in Birmingham, Alabama, without a permit. The Court declines to consider the protesters’ claims that a Birmingham ordinance infringed on their rights under the First and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - Thurgood Marshall on Supreme Court Thurgood Marshall is nominated and confirmed to the U.S. Supreme Court, becoming the first Black justice on the high court. He retires in 1991. - - 1968 - Quarles v. Philip Morris In the first labor case tried under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia prohibits an employer’s practice of relying solely on departmental rather than plant-wide seniority, which forced longtime Black workers to give up their seniority when they transferred to better jobs in previously white-only departments. - Newman v. Piggie Park Enterprises, Inc. In a case banning discrimination against Black customers at a South Carolina restaurant chain, the U.S. Supreme Court recognizes that civil rights plaintiffs act as “private attorney[s] general” and are entitled to attorneys’ fees when they prevail under Title II of the Civil Rights Act. - Green v. County School Board of New Kent County The U.S. Supreme Court holds that a “freedom of choice” school plan that sustains racial segregation in public schools cannot satisfy the mandate of Brown v. Board of Education. - Davis v. Francois The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit holds that an anti-picketing ordinance in Port Allen, Louisiana, violates the First and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - Poor People’s Campaign LDF provides legal support for the Poor People’s Campaign in Washington, D.C. - - 1969 - Allen v. State Board of Elections The U.S. Supreme Court holds that Section Five of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 covers changes to election procedures. - Shuttlesworth v. City of Birmingham The U.S. Supreme Court invalidates the parade permit law of Birmingham, Alabama, as violative of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, posthumously vindicating Martin Luther King Jr.’s 1963 civil rights march in the city. - Sniadach v. Family Finance Corp. of Bay View The U.S. Supreme Court holds that state laws allowing the garnishment of wages without notice or a hearing violate the due process requirements of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - Alexander v. Holmes County Board of Education The U.S. Supreme Court finds that a Mississippi school district’s delay in desegregating the district violates Brown v. Board of Education’s mandate. - - - - 1970 - Carter v. Jury Commission of Greene County The U.S. Supreme Court upholds grants of injunctive and declaratory relief for Black citizens challenging their exclusion from the jury selection process. - Turner v. Fouche Citing the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously invalidates a racially exclusionary process for selecting grand juries and school board members in Taliaferro County, Georgia. The Court finds that the use of subjective criteria for jury selection and a requirement that school board members own land served as a pretext for discriminating against Black citizens. - Ali v. Division of State Athletic Commission The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York holds that New York violated Muhammad Ali’s rights under the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution when it discriminatorily stripped him of his boxing license after his conviction for refusing drafted military service. - Kennedy Park Homes Association v. City of Lackawanna The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit forbids the city of Lackawanna, New York, from interfering in the construction of low-income housing in a predominantly white section of town, holding that such interference violates the Equal Protection and Due Process clauses of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution as well as the Civil Rights Act and the Fair Housing Act. - - 1971 - Hawkins v. Town of Shaw, Mississippi The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit holds that a Mississippi town violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and discriminated based on race by providing inferior services to Black neighborhoods “on the other side of the tracks.” - Groppi v. Wisconsin The U.S. Supreme Court holds that under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, a person charged with a criminal misdemeanor has the right to move their trial to another venue where jurors are not biased against them. - Phillips v. Martin Marietta Corporation The U.S. Supreme Court holds that under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, an employer may not, in the absence of business necessity, refuse to hire women with preschool-age children while hiring men with such children. - Griggs v. Duke Power Company The U.S. Supreme Court holds that neutral employment practices that have a discriminatory effect can violate Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 if the practices result in different outcomes for Black people and white people, even when there is no discriminatory intent. - Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the use of busing as a tool to desegregate public schools satisfies the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - Clay v. United States The U.S. Supreme Court strikes down the conviction of Muhammad Ali (born Cassius Clay) under the Military Selective Service Act for refusing to report for drafted military service. - - 1972 - Haines v. Kerner The U.S. Supreme Court holds that an incarcerated person filing a pro se complaint challenging the deprivation of their constitutional rights while in prison should be allowed to present evidence to support their claim before a court dismisses the case. - Alexander v. Louisiana The U.S. Supreme Court finds the grand jury selection process to be racially discriminatory in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution where statistical evidence demonstrates that Black jurors were excluded at a disproportionate rate and that selection procedures were not racially neutral. - Wright v. Council of City of Emporia; United States v. Scotland Neck City Board of Education The U.S. Supreme Court refuses to allow public school systems to circumvent the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and hamper desegregation by creating new all-white or mostly white “splinter school districts.” - Furman v. Georgia The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the death penalty, as applied in the considered cases, violates the 14th Amendment and the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution’s protection against “cruel and unusual” punishment. - - 1973 - Ham v. South Carolina The U.S. Supreme Court holds that under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, defendants are entitled to have potential jurors interrogated about whether they harbor racial prejudice. - Adams v. Richardson The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia requires federal education officials to enforce Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. - Mourning v. Family Publications Service The U.S. Supreme Court upholds federal regulations under the Truth in Lending Act that require full disclosure to consumers of the actual cost of a loan or finance agreement. - McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green This seminal U.S. Supreme Court case establishes the framework under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 for determining whether an employer has engaged in unlawful discrimination. The Court unanimously holds that a Black worker alleging racial discrimination meets their preliminary evidentiary burden with a minimal showing of discrimination. - McDonnell Douglas Supreme Court Brief - Keyes v. School District No. 1, Denver The U.S. Supreme Court holds, in its first case addressing school segregation outside of the South, that where deliberate segregation affects a substantial part of a school system, the entire district must ordinarily be desegregated. - Norwood v. Harrison The U.S. Supreme Court finds that it is a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution for the state to aid discrimination by providing free textbooks to children attending private schools that were established to allow white students to avoid public school desegregation. - - 1974 - Bradley v. School Board of the City of Richmond The U.S. Supreme Court applies the Education Amendments of 1972 to ensure attorneys’ fees for students and parents in protracted litigation to desegregate schools in Richmond, Virginia. - Supreme Court Brief for Petitioner Bradley - - 1975 - Johnson v. Railway Express Agency, Inc. The U.S. Supreme Court reaffirms that the Civil Rights Act of 1866, passed during Reconstruction, provides an independent remedy for employment discrimination. - Albemarle Paper Co. v. Moody The U.S. Supreme Court holds that most victims of job discrimination are entitled to back-pay relief under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and it sets additional court standards for job-related employment testing. - - 1977 - United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburgh v. Carey The U.S. Supreme Court holds that states may consider race in drawing electoral districts if necessary to comply with the Voting Rights Act and avoid a dilution of minority voting strength. The holding rejects the argument that doing so infringes on the 14th and 15th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - Coker v. Georgia The U.S. Supreme Court holds that capital punishment for rape violates the prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment of the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 1978 - Hatcher v. Methodist Hospital of Gary, Inc. The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, in a lawsuit alleging violations of the Equal Protection and Due Process clauses of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, approves a settlement blocking the use of federal funds to build a hospital in a predominantly white suburb of Gary, Indiana, to replace a facility downtown where the new hospital would have deprived poor and minority city dwellers of adequate health care. - Regents of the University of California v. Bakke The U.S. Supreme Court holds that, under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, schools can take race into account in admissions but cannot use quotas. - - - - 1980 - City of Mobile v. Bolden The U.S. Supreme Court holds that, absent evidence of discriminatory intent, the at-large voting system of electing city commissioners in Mobile, Alabama, does not violate the 14th and 15th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - - 1981 - Gulf Oil Co. v. Bernard In a racial discrimination class action lawsuit, the U.S. Supreme Court holds that the District Court’s order barring plaintiffs’ counsel from communicating with the class of plaintiffs, Black and female employees of Gulf Oil Co., constituted an abuse of the District Court’s discretion under Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The U.S. Supreme Court finds that the District Court’s order made it difficult for their attorney to obtain information to litigate the case. - Luévano v. Campbell The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia approves a consent decree settlement in a case filed under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that ends the federal government’s use of a written test for entry-level hiring because it disproportionately disqualified Black and Latinx applicants from employment opportunities. - - 1982 - Enmund v. Florida The U.S. Supreme Court holds that imposing the death penalty in a felony murder and robbery case violates the Eighth and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution when the person charged with a crime did not take a life, attempt to take a life, or intend to take a life. - - 1983 - Bob Jones University v. United States; Goldsboro Christian Schools Inc. v. United States The U.S. Supreme Court appoints LDF Board Chair William T. Coleman Jr. as a “friend of the Court” in an IRS case against nonprofit private schools. The Supreme Court’s opinion affirms Coleman’s argument that nonprofit private schools that prescribe and enforce racially discriminatory admission standards on the basis of religious doctrine are not tax-exempt organizations under the Internal Revenue Code, nor are contributions tax-deductible charitable contributions. - Major v. Treen Read moreThe U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana rejects arguments challenging the constitutionality of the “discriminatory effects” test under Section Two of the Voting Rights Act and holds that a redistricting scheme that diluted the voting power of Black residents violated the Voting Rights Act. - - 1984 - Julius Chambers Julius Chambers (1936-2013) becomes LDF’s third Director-Counsel. He serves until 1993. - Despite what appears impossible at present, we can, with determination and perseverance, still achieve the kind of America we dream of. - - 1986 - Dillard v. Crenshaw County The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Alabama finds that several Alabama counties employed at-large electoral methods designed to intentionally discriminate against Black voters, in violation of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. - Ford v. Wainwright The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits states from inflicting the death penalty upon an incarcerated person who has mental insanity. - Thornburg v. Gingles Read moreThe U.S. Supreme Court finds that the system of at-large elections of state legislators in North Carolina illegally dilutes Black voting strength in violation of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The Court affirms that minority vote dilution violates the Voting Rights Act regardless of whether there is proof of discriminatory intent. - Geier v. Alexander After finding that Tennessee’s system of higher education had failed to eliminate residual vestiges of de jure segregation years after Brown v. Board of Education, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit approves a settlement agreement requiring the state to identify 75 promising Black sophomores each year and prepare them for later admission to the state’s graduate and professional schools. The Court affirms that the settlement agreement complies with the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 1987 - McCleskey v. Kemp The U.S. Supreme Court narrowly rejects U.S. constitutional challenges under the Eighth and 14th Amendments to Georgia’s death penalty. The Court disregards LDF’s famous Baldus study, which found that the death penalty in Georgia was imposed more often on Black defendants and people accused of killing white victims than on white defendants and people accused of killing Black victims. Despite the social science study demonstrating that racial discrimination permeates every aspect of the state’s capital punishment system, the Court finds that when decisionmakers do not act with a discriminatory purpose, there is no constitutional violation. - LDF Western Regional Office LDF opens its Western Regional Office in Los Angeles, California, to provide legal assistance to Black communities in the western part of the United States. - - 1989 - Lorance v. AT&T Technologies, Inc. In lawsuit female employees brought challenging their employer’s seniority system under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the U.S. Supreme Court holds that the act’s statute of limitations provision bars discrimination claims not filed within the required period after the unlawful employment practice occurred. The Civil Rights Act of 1991 later overturns this holding. - - - - 1990 - Missouri v. Jenkins The U.S. Supreme Court finds that, consistent with the 10th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, federal courts can set aside state limitations on local taxing authority to ensure sufficient funds for the school desegregation plan of Kansas City, Missouri. - - 1991 - Board of Education of Oklahoma City Public Schools v. Dowell The U.S. Supreme Court finds that when dissolving a desegregation decree under the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, courts should consider whether school districts have complied in good faith with the decree and “whether the vestiges of past discrimination had been eliminated to the extent practicable.” - Chisom v. Roemer; Houston Lawyers’ Association v. Attorney General of Texas The U.S. Supreme Court holds that the Voting Rights Act applies to state judicial elections to prohibit the imposition of voting qualifications or prerequisites in a manner resulting in the denial or abridgement of the right to vote on account of race or color. - Matthews v. Coye The Natural Resources Defense Council, LDF, and several other groups file a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of a class of predominantly Black children in Oakland, California. The suit alleges that California violated the Medicaid Act and 42 U.S.C. § 1983 by not implementing a program to detect and treat the children’s lead poisoning. Ten months later, the case is settled after California agrees to establish a program of blood testing and education to prevent lead poisoning. - - 1992 - Thomas v. County of Los Angeles The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit finds that Black and Hispanic residents of Los Angeles County, California, have demonstrated under 42 U.S.C. §§ 1983 and 1985 a “real and immediate threat of injury” and have standing under Article III to sue the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department for mistreatment, including unlawful searches and detentions, beatings, shootings, terrorist activities, and destruction of property. The Court of Appeals vacates the District Court’s injunction and remands the case for further proceedings. When the case ultimately goes to trial in 1995, the jury returns a multi-million-dollar verdict in favor of the plaintiffs. In 1996, the District Court approves a settlement for $6 million payable to the class and allocates $1.5 million for use of force training by the Sheriff's Department. - - 1993 - Elaine R. Jones Elaine R. Jones (b. 1944) becomes the fourth Director-Counsel of LDF and the first woman to lead the organization. She is also the first Director-Counsel to assume the additional role of President of LDF. She serves until 2004. - The reality is that color still matters in this country. It still does. And we certainly don’t advance the ball by pretending that it doesn’t. - Haynes v. Shoney’s, Inc. The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida approves a settlement agreement on behalf of Black employees and applicants, as well as white managers, for civil rights violations under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and U.S. Code Section 1981, where Shoney’s Restaurant agrees to pay $132,500,000 in damages and to implement aggressive equal employment opportunity measures designed to eliminate any trace of unlawful racial discrimination in their recruitment, hiring, promotion, and treatment of employees. - Thompson v. Raiford In a class action lawsuit, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas enters a national order requiring states and Medicaid providers to use blood lead testing to screen children for the presence of lead. Public health experts credit this case for the nationwide adoption of the blood lead testing requirement. - - 1994 - Comer v. Cisneros Black residents of Erie County, New York, challenge the discriminatory administration of federal housing assistance, including the Section 8 program, as violative of their civil rights. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit finds that the lower court erred in dismissing all challenges on grounds that the residents lacked standing, and the Court allows them to seek monetary damages to remediate past discrimination. - - 1995 - Missouri v. Jenkins II In an 18-year-old desegregation case in Kansas City, Missouri, the U.S. Supreme Court reverses the District Court’s order to remedy intentional discrimination by increasing teacher’s salaries and requiring the school district to fund quality education programs. The Court finds that the District Court exceeded its remedial authority under Brown v. Board of Education to only remedy de jure segregation. - - 1996 - Hopwood v. Texas The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit finds that Texas universities’ affirmative action plan violates the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution where the state’s interest in having a diverse student body is not a sufficient “compelling interest to support the use of race as a factor in admissions.” In this case, four students claimed that they were denied admittance to the University of Texas Law School in 1992 because of their race, alleging that less-qualified African American and Mexican American students were admitted. The U.S. Supreme Court declines to review the Fifth Circuit’s decision. - Sheff v. O’Neill The Connecticut Supreme Court holds that the state Constitution and state laws impose an affirmative obligation to ensure all students receive a “substantially equal” education, and finds that Hartford schools were in fact racially, ethnically, and economically isolated, in violation of Connecticut’s affirmative constitutional obligation to provide all school children with racially integrated and substantially equal educational opportunities. The Court orders the State to immediately remedy the racial isolation endemic to schools in the area around the state capital. - Daly v. Hunt The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit overturns a District Court’s grant of summary judgment for plaintiffs, voters from Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, who challenged the apportionment of electoral districts as discriminatory in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The Court finds that the District Court erred in basing its “one person, one vote” analysis on the voting-age population instead of the total population and remands to provide the plaintiffs the opportunity to submit additional evidence in support of their claim that the districting plan was the result of bad faith, arbitrariness, or invidious discrimination. - - 1997 - Robinson v. Shell Oil Company The U.S. Supreme Court unanimously finds that Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 allows a former employee to sue his ex-employer for providing a negative job reference in retaliation for filing a discrimination charge challenging his termination. - - 1998 - Wright v. Universal Maritime Service Corp. The U.S. Supreme Court determines that a general arbitration clause in a collective bargaining agreement does not deprive an employee of his right to bring a claim under the Americans with Disabilities Act in federal court. - - 1999 - Campaign to Save Our Public Hospitals v. Giuliani The New York Court of Appeals bars an attempt by New York City’s mayor to privatize public hospitals, and thereby cut hospital services to people with low incomes, in violation of New York statutory law. - Charlotte-Mecklenburg School District Gains Unitary Status Thirty years of a court-supervised desegregation order ends in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg School District in North Carolina. - Hunt v. Cromartie The U.S. Supreme Court overturns the District Court’s grant of summary judgment for plaintiffs, North Carolina residents who alleged that state officials’ congressional redistricting plan creating a majority-Black voting district in North Carolina was racially motivated in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The Court finds that where the General Assembly’s motivation was in dispute, this case is not suitable for summary disposition. - - - - 2000 - Kemba Smith Clemency Petition At LDF’s request, President Bill Clinton commutes the sentence of Kemba Smith, a young Black mother who received a minimum sentence of 24.5 years in prison after her abusive boyfriend led her to play a peripheral role in a cocaine conspiracy. - Rideau v. Whitley The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reverses the 28-year-old murder conviction of Wilbert Rideau where there was discrimination in the selection of the grand jury that originally indicted him four decades earlier in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 2001 - Easley v. Cromartie The U.S. Supreme Court reverses a three-judge District Court ruling that the North Carolina state legislature used race as a predominant factor when drawing congressional district boundaries and tried to create a majority-Black voting district in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The U.S. Supreme Court finds that the North Carolina majority-minority district from which Mel Watt was elected to Congress was not an illegal racial gerrymander. - - 2002 - NAACP v. Harris A settlement is reached in a landmark class action suit filed on behalf of thousands of Black and Haitian American Floridians to enforce their rights under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, and the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution after they were unable to vote in the 2000 election. The settlement requires Florida to take concrete steps to improve the voting process. - - 2003 - Gratz v. Bollinger; Grutter v. Bollinger The U.S. Supreme Court finds in Gratz v. Bollinger that the undergraduate admissions formula of the University of Michigan (which LDF represented) granting minority applicants automatic preference violates Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. In the landmark companion case Grutter v. Bollinger, challenging law school admissions policies, the U.S. Supreme Court distinguishes its decision from Gratz, holding that narrowly tailored race-conscious university admissions policies are compliant with the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, where the use of race is one of many “plus factors” in an admissions program that considers the overall individual contribution of each candidate. This case vindicates a strategy that was devised and implemented over more than six years to support the educational benefits of diversity. - - 2004 - Banks v. Dretke The U.S. Supreme Court overturns Delma Banks Jr.’s death sentence in his federal habeas petition and remands the case for reconsideration in light of the prosecution’s withholding of impeachment evidence related to two principal witnesses. - Theodore M. Shaw Ted Shaw Oral History InterviewTheodore M. Shaw (b. 1954) becomes President and Director-Counsel of LDF, the fifth person to lead the organization. He serves until 2008. - If you fight, you may win, you may lose. But if you don’t fight, you can’t win. - - 2005 - Bad Times in Tulia, Texas A monetary settlement is awarded after it was brought to light that approximately 10% of the Black community of Tulia, Texas, had been arrested in a drug “sting” operation based on unreliable testimony from a lone undercover agent with a checkered past. - Gonzalez v. Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc. The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California approves a consent decree requiring Abercrombie & Fitch to institute significant corporate reforms to promote workforce diversity and pay plaintiffs more than $40 million in relief for discriminating against Black, Latinx, and Asian American employees and applicants in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. - - 2006 - Rideau v. Louisiana In the Criminal District Court in Orleans Parish, Louisiana, a jury of 10 women and two men (including four Black jurors) finds Wilbert Rideau guilty of manslaughter and not murder, which permits his immediate release based on the 44 years he already served. This is Rideau’s fourth trial, after federal courts overturned three previous death sentences by all-white, all-male juries. - Geier v. Bredesen The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee grants the joint motion of LDF and the state of Tennessee to end nearly four decades of court supervision of the consent decree to desegregate Tennessee’s public colleges and universities, in recognition of the state’s progress in creating a higher education system that preserves access and educational opportunity for Black and white students. - - 2007 - Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School District No. 1, et al. The U.S. Supreme Court strikes down race-conscious school assignment plans in Seattle, Washington, and Jefferson County, Kentucky, that did not have the purpose of remedying past discrimination. The Court affirms that the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution permits consideration of race when the purpose is to remedy past instances of discrimination or to promote diversity in higher education. - - 2008 - John Payton John Payton (1946-2012) becomes President and Director-Counsel of LDF, the sixth person to lead the organization. He serves until his death. - The problems of race and inequality in our country have proven to be enduring and deep-seated in nature. … But we must recognize that this is a marathon and not a race if we are to find solutions that will work. - Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Whitney The Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas overturns the death sentence of LDF client Raymond Whitney, finding that because Whitney, a Black man who had been on Pennsylvania’s death row for 26 years, had mental illness and had been inadequately represented at trial, on appeal, and in his first post-conviction proceedings, executing him would be cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. This is the first of three death penalty cases that LDF worked to successfully overturn in 2008. - Wright v. Stern View court documentThe U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York approves a class action settlement requiring injunctive relief and damages of more than $20 million due to systemic employment discrimination by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation against its Black and Hispanic employees. - Williams v. Allen View court documentThe U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit grants relief to LDF client Herbert Williams Jr., who had been on Alabama’s death row for nearly 20 years, finding that his trial attorney failed to investigate and present evidence regarding the extreme abuse Williams suffered as a child at the hands of his parents. The Court of Appeals also reverses the District Court ruling that Williams had not properly presented his Batson v. Kentucky claim that the prosecutor unconstitutionally struck Black people from his jury. - Herring v. Marion County Election Board View court documentLDF settles a lawsuit filed in Indiana state court to ensure that eligible voters with property subject to foreclosure proceedings or evictions would not have their right to vote challenged during the 2008 election based on their foreclosure status in violation of Indiana law. - Rosales v. Quarterman The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas, in a habeas corpus petition, vacates the capital conviction and death sentence of LDF client Mariano Rosales, who had been on Texas’ death row for 23 years, because trial prosecutors had improperly excluded Black and Latinx prospective jurors due to their race in violation of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 2009 - Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District Number One v. Holder The U.S. Supreme Court declines to review the constitutionality of Section Five of the Voting Rights Act, holding that Section Four permits political subdivisions to be released from the requirement that they receive preclearance before changing their voting procedures. - - - - 2010 - Lewis v. City of Chicago The U.S. Supreme Court unanimously finds that the city of Chicago could be held accountable each time it used an exam for hiring that discriminated against qualified minority applicants and blocked them from becoming firefighters, in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. The case ultimately results in the hiring of 111 class members as firefighters and the payment of $78.5 million in back pay and pension contributions. - Greater New Orleans Fair Housing Action Center v. HUD View court documentThe U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia denies a motion by housing advocacy groups and homeowners to stop Louisiana from using a formula for awarding federal recovery funds that had a discriminatory impact on Black Americans seeking to rebuild and return to their homes after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. - Farrakhan v. Gregoire The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit finds that, due to pervasive racial bias in Washington’s criminal legal system, the state’s felon disenfranchisement law amounts to a denial of the right to the vote on account of race in violation of Section Two of the Voting Rights Act. - - 2011 - Abu-Jamal v. Horn Following a unanimous decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit declaring Mumia Abu-Jamal’s 1982 death sentence unconstitutional, the Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office announces that it will not seek another death sentence against the journalist and activist. - - 2012 - Thompson v. HUD After 17 years of litigation, Black families, including current and former residents of public housing in Baltimore, Maryland, file a proposed settlement in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland to resolve a long-running class action lawsuit where the Court held that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) violated the Fair Housing Act of 1968 by unfairly concentrating Black public housing residents in the most impoverished, segregated areas of Baltimore. The settlement, approved by the Court, requires HUD to take affirmative measures to eradicate the legacy of nearly a century of government-sponsored racial segregation in the Baltimore region. - Brister v. Mississippi The Circuit Court of Hinds County, Mississippi, vacates a juvenile client’s sentence of life without parole for a crime committed when he was 16 years old and resentences him to life with parole eligibility. He becomes the first person in Mississippi with a juvenile life-without-parole sentence to be resentenced and the first in the state to be released on parole following the U.S. Supreme Court’s announcement that life without parole for those under 18 at the time of their crime violates the Eighth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - - 2013 - Fisher v. University of Texas The U.S. Supreme Court upholds race-conscious admissions as constitutional under the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution when it is narrowly tailored to support a compelling government interest. The Court remands the case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for further review. LDF represents the Black Student Alliance at the University of Texas at Austin and the Black Ex-Students of Texas, Inc. - Shelby County v. Holder The U.S. Supreme Court strikes down Section Four of the Voting Rights Act, ending preclearance requirements for voting law changes in jurisdictions with a history of discrimination. - LDF President and Director-Counsel Janai Nelson presents congressional testimony on the impact of Shelby County v. Holder. - Sherrilyn Ifill Sherrilyn Ifill (b. 1962) becomes President and Director-Counsel of LDF, the seventh person to lead the organization. She serves until 2022. - Leave no power on the table. That means that we have to believe that every place is an opportunity for the exercise of power to shape the destiny of our communities. - - 2014 - Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action The U.S. Supreme Court upholds the constitutionality of Michigan’s Proposal Two voter initiative, which amended the state’s constitution to prohibit discriminating against, or granting preferential treatment to, any individual or group on the basis of race, sex, color, ethnicity, or national origin in public employment, public education, or public contracting purposes. The Court holds that the judiciary has no authority in the U.S. Constitution to set aside the voters’ constitutional amendment. LDF represented a coalition of organizations and individuals with ties to state universities challenging Proposal Two as an infringement of the First and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution and federal civil rights statutes. - Washington v. Bourgeois The King County Superior Court in Washington reduces juvenile Jeremiah Bourgeois’ life-without-parole sentence to a minimum term of 25 years. He was only 14 years old at the time of the offense for which he was convicted. After 27 years of incarceration, he is released. - - 2015 - Davis v. City of New York The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York approves the settlement of a class action suit challenging the New York City Police Department’s discriminatory policies and practices concerning unlawful stops and arrests of public housing residents and their visitors. Black and Latinx New York City Housing Authority residents and guests brought the suit to enforce their rights under the Fourth and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Fair Housing Act, the United States Housing Act, and the laws of New York City and State. - Thurgood Marshall Institute LDF launches the Thurgood Marshall Institute (TMI). TMI complements LDF’s traditional litigation strengths and brings critical capabilities to the fight for racial justice, including research and targeted advocacy campaigns. TMI also houses LDF’s Archives—a collection of material chronicling the legal history of the Civil Rights Movement. - Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs v. Inclusive Communities Project, Inc. The U.S. Supreme Court reaffirms that discrimination based on disparate impact is actionable under the Fair Housing Act. During the litigation, LDF submits an amicus brief, helps disseminate federal guidance on disparate impact, and partners with key stakeholders to mobilize public awareness around the litigation. - - 2016 - Fisher v. University of Texas II Following the remand to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, the U.S. Supreme Court again upholds the constitutionality of race-conscious admissions programs, finding that the University of Texas’ admissions policy complies with the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. LDF represents the Black Student Alliance at the University of Texas at Austin and the Black Ex-Students of Texas, Inc., in oral arguments before the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals and in an amicus brief in the U.S. Supreme Court. - Veasey v. Abbott The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, sitting en banc, holds that Texas’ 2011 voter photo identification law violated Section Two of the Voting Rights Act and that there is sufficient evidence to find that the Texas Legislature might have passed the law to discriminate against Black and Latinx voters. LDF presented oral arguments before the Court of Appeals on behalf of Black students and the Texas League of Young Voters Education Fund. - - 2017 - Buck v. Davis The U.S. Supreme Court reverses the death sentence of Duane Buck where his trial attorney introduced evidence that suggested Buck was more likely to commit violent acts in the future because he is Black. LDF presented oral arguments on Buck’s behalf in the U.S. Supreme Court. - LDF v. Trump View court documentLDF files a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York challenging President Donald Trump’s executive order creating the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity. LDF alleges that: the commission was formed with the intent to discriminate against voters of color, in violation of the Fifth and 15th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution; the president exceeded his executive authority in forming a commission to investigate individuals or a group of voters; and the commission’s skewed composition and predetermined findings violate the Federal Advisory Committee Act. - Terrebonne Parish Branch NAACP, et al. v. Jindal, et al. The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana holds that at-large voting for the 32nd Judicial District Court deprives Black voters of the equal opportunity to elect candidates of their choice, in violation of Section Two of the Voting Rights Act and the 14th and 15th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - - 2018 - Stout v. Jefferson County Board of Education The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit holds that it was wrong for the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama to permit the predominantly white city of Gardendale, Alabama, to partially secede from the more racially diverse Jefferson County school system, a decision it determined was racially motivated in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. - Morningside Community Organization v. Sabree The Third Circuit Court in Wayne County, Michigan, approves a settlement requiring the city of Detroit to provide financial relief to residents at risk of losing their homes due to the city’s discriminatory tax foreclosure policy. Plaintiffs had filed a class action lawsuit against the Wayne County Treasurer, Wayne County, and the city of Detroit alleging that the tax foreclosures disparately impacted Black residents in violation of the federal Fair Housing Act. - Reams v. State of Arkansas The Arkansas Supreme Court affirms the lower court’s decision to vacate Kenneth Reams’ death sentence based on ineffective assistance of counsel. Reams, a Black man, had been sentenced to death despite being an accessory to the crime and only 18 years old at the time of the crime. - - 2019 - Alabama State Conference of the NAACP, et al. v. City of Pleasant Grove, et al. The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama approves the settlement of a lawsuit challenging the at-large electoral system for the City Council of Pleasant Grove, Alabama, as a violation of Section Two of the Voting Rights Act and the 14th and 15th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement and consent decree, Pleasant Grove agrees to change its method of electing members to the City Council from at-large to cumulative voting with no numbered places. - Grottano v. City of New York LDF settles a class action suit challenging the New York City Department of Correction’s practice of randomly strip-searching individuals who visit city jails, in violation of the Fourth and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution and Article I Section 12 of the New York State Constitution. Per the settlement agreement entered in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, LDF wins $12.5 million for visitors who were subjected to the invasive searches and works with the city to revise officer training protocols. - Times, et al. v. Target Corp. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York approves a settlement to resolve LDF’s challenge to Target Corporation’s overly broad and outdated criminal background check policy, which discriminated against Black and Latinx applicants in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. As part of the settlement, Target agrees to institute a hiring process for class members to obtain jobs at any of Target’s approximately 1,800 U.S.-based retail stores. - - - - 2020 - Sheff v. O’Neill The Connecticut Superior Court approves a landmark agreement in the 30-year-old Connecticut school desegregation case, requiring the state to take affirmative measures to remediate the extreme racial and economic segregation of students in the city of Hartford in relation to its surrounding suburbs. LDF’s involvement began in 1989. - Thomas v. Andino The U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina grants a preliminary injunction that prohibits South Carolina from enforcing its witness signature requirement for absentee voters in the June 2020 primary election. The District Court finds that forcing people to obtain the signature of a third-party witness on their absentee ballots would endanger their health and safety due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and that such restrictions could infringe on voters’ rights under the First and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - Harding v. Edwards The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana grants a preliminary injunction that requires Louisiana to extend the early voting period by three days and provide voters at the highest risk of serious illness from COVID-19 with the option to vote by mail in the November and December 2020 primary and general elections. The Court holds that the injunction is necessary to avoid infringing on the First and 14th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - LDF v. Barr The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia grants summary judgment to LDF and holds that the Presidential Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice had violated multiple requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. - LDF's then-President and Director-Counsel Sherrilyn Ifill joined "The ReidOut" to discuss protecting the USPS, mail-in voting, and the 2020 election. - NAACP v. United States Postal Service The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia holds that the U.S. Postal Service’s widespread disruptions in mail delivery violate federal law and risk delaying the delivery of mail-in ballots, thereby causing voter disenfranchisement. - - 2022 - Janai S. Nelson Janai S. Nelson (b. 1971) becomes President and Director-Counsel of LDF, the eighth person to lead the organization. - Truth is the oxygen of democracy. Without truth, our democracy will suffocate and cease to exist. - - 2023 - Allen v. Milligan The U.S. Supreme Court affirms a preliminary injunction against Alabama’s 2021 congressional districts and finds that Alabama’s redistricting map is racially discriminatory, in violation of Section Two of the Voting Rights Act. The Court also upholds the constitutionality of the Voting Rights Act as applied to redistricting cases. - Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President and Fellows of Harvard College; Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. University of North Carolina The U.S. Supreme Court holds that race-based college admissions programs violate the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. This ruling overturns Grutter v. Bollinger and Regents of the University of California v. Bakke. LDF long represented 25 Harvard student and alumni organizations as amici curiae, or “friends of the court,” in the Harvard lawsuit. - - 2024 - Robinson v. Landry The Louisiana State Legislature passes and Governor Jeff Landry signs into law a congressional map that adds a second majority-Black district, as a direct result of litigation initiated by LDF to challenge Louisiana’s discriminatory congressional redistricting maps as a violation of Section Two of the Voting Rights Act. The first majority-Black district was secured through the 1983 LDF case Major v. Treen. - Trump v. Anderson The U.S. Supreme Court holds that Colorado is not allowed to disqualify former President Donald Trump from its presidential primary ballot under Section Three of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, the Insurrection Clause. LDF had filed an amicus brief concerning whether Trump’s actions in connection with the January 6, 2021, insurrection should render him ineligible to be a candidate in the 2024 presidential election. - Alexander v. South Carolina State Conference of the NAACP The U.S. Supreme Court reverses and remands the decision of the three-judge panel for the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina, which had found South Carolina’s 2021 congressional map an unconstitutional racial gerrymander in violation of the 14th and 15th Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. - The Next Chapter in Our Democracy Despite the groundbreaking advances we have made, in recent years it has become increasingly clear that white supremacist ideologies have once again infiltrated mainstream American culture. This shift will be catastrophic if left unchecked—normalizing bigotry, reinvigorating voter suppression and school segregation, and exacerbating economic discrimination, mass incarceration, and police brutality. But LDF was built for this—forged from the fires of our groundbreaking and successful challenges to Jim Crow-era practices and meticulously honed over the decades with the litigation and advocacy experience we now bring to battle each day. LDF’s founders had the courage to imagine a radically different America—a society in which Black people could live free from discrimination and fear and in which opportunity for a life of dignity and advancement could be reached. Our predecessors won many victories, but as is painfully apparent, there are no permanent victories. Challenges remain on every front in the battle for civil rights and equality. Standing at this crossroads for our nation, LDF is tasked with envisioning the form that the next 80 years of civil rights struggles will take. With your support, we will bring the expertise of our legacy and the clarity of our vision to shape democracy for the 21st century. - Where you see wrong or inequality or injustice, speak out because this is your country. This is your democracy. Make it. Protect it. Pass it on. Thurgood Marshall, the first Black U.S. Supreme Court Justice and LDF's Founder - -


--- [Arthur C. Wade Explained] ---
No content
