=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[[Changelog] What's New in Mozilla Firefox 100 and Later Versions - AskVG]
Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11version22H2. Power profiling - visualizing performance data recorded from web browsers - is now also supported on Linux and Mac with Intel CPUs, in addition to Windows 11 and Apple Silicon.
URL: https://www.askvg.com/mozilla-firefox-100-and-later-versions-changelog/

[Firefox 107 released with performance improvements for ... - Winaero]
What'snew inFirefox107 New features Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11version22H2.
URL: https://winaero.com/firefox-107-released-with-performance-improvements-for-windows-11-22h2/

[Firefox 107 out with security fixes and Windows performance ...]
Mozillanotesthat it has improved the performance when the URL of the active document is retrieved by Windows Defender under these conditions. Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11version22H2.
URL: https://www.ghacks.net/2022/11/15/firefox-107-out-with-security-fixes-and-windows-performance-improvements/

[Firefox 107 Now Available for Download - Softpedia]
Thefollowing new features are available inFirefox107: Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11version22H2.
URL: https://news.softpedia.com/news/firefox-107-now-available-for-download-536450.shtml

[New Update - Firefox 107 Stable Release with security fixes and Windows ...]
New Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11version22H2. Power profiling — visualizing performance data recorded from web browsers — is now also supported on Linux and Mac with Intel CPUs, in addition to Windows 11 and Apple Silicon. Fixed Various security fixes.
URL: https://malwaretips.com/threads/firefox-107-stable-release-with-security-fixes-and-windows-performance-improvements.118623/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [[Changelog] What's New in Mozilla Firefox 100 and Later Versions - AskVG] ---
[Changelog] What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 100 and Later Versions In this exclusive changelog article, we are providing information about all versions of Mozilla Firefox web browser released after version 100.0 to public. You’ll find the release date and what’s new in each version of Mozilla Firefox browser. Mozilla Firefox is a popular web browser available for Windows, Linux and Mac operating systems. You can download the latest version of Mozilla Firefox from following article: Download Mozilla Firefox Latest Version For your convenience, in this version history article, we’ll list all changes, fixes, improvements and new features found in all versions of Mozilla Firefox browser (version 100 and later). Read changelog of older versions: [Changelog] What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 90 and Later Versions Table of Contents - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 100.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 101.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 102.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 103.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 104.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 105.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 106.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 107.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 108.0? - What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 109.0? What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 100.0? Mozilla Firefox 100.0 version was released on May 03, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - The Firefox installer for Windows is now signed with a SHA-256 digest, rather than previous SHA-1. If you are planning to use Firefox setup installer on a Windows 7 computer, you’ll need to install KB4474419 update. (How-to Guide) - Scrollbars on Linux and Windows 11 won’t take space by default i.e. will remain invisible. On Linux, users can change this in Settings. On Windows 10 and 11, you’ll need to enable scrollbars using “Settings app -> Accessibility -> Visual Effects -> Always show scrollbars” option as mentioned here. - New users can now set Firefox as the default PDF handler when setting Firefox as their default browser. - Firefox has a new focus indicator for links which replaces the old dotted outline with a solid blue outline. This change unifies the focus indicators across form fields and links, which makes it easier to identify the focused link, especially for users with low vision. (How-to Restore Dotted Outline) - Users can now choose preferred color schemes for websites. Theme authors can now make better decisions about which color scheme Firefox uses for menus. Web content appearance can now be changed in Settings. (How-to Guide) - Firefox spell checking now checks spelling in multiple languages. To enable additional languages, select them in the text field’s context menu. - Firefox now supports captions/subtitles display on YouTube, Prime Video, and Netflix videos you watch in Picture-in-Picture. Just turn on the subtitles on the in-page video player, and they will appear in PiP. - Picture-in-Picture now also supports video captions on websites that use WebVTT (Web Video Text Track) format. - On the first run after install, Firefox detects when its language does not match the operating system language and offers the user a choice between the two languages. - HDR video is now supported in Firefox on Mac – starting with YouTube! Firefox users on macOS 11+ (with HDR-compatible screens) can enjoy higher-fidelity video content. No need to manually flip any preferences to turn HDR video support on – just make sure battery preferences are NOT set to “optimize video streaming while on battery”. - Hardware accelerated AV1 video decoding is enabled on Windows with supported GPUs (Intel Gen 11+, AMD RDNA 2 Excluding Navi 24, GeForce 30). Installing the AV1 Video Extension from the Microsoft Store may also be required. - Video overlay is enabled on Windows for Intel GPUs, reducing power usage during video playback. - Improved fairness between painting and handling other events. This noticeably improves the performance of the volume slider on Twitch. - Firefox now supports credit card autofill and capture in the United Kingdom. - Firefox now ignores less restricted referrer policies – including unsafe-url, no-referrer-when-downgrade, and origin-when-cross-origin – for cross-site subresource/iframe requests to prevent privacy leaks from the referrer. - In macOS 11+ Firefox now only rasterizes the fonts once per window. This means that opening a new tab is fast, and switching tabs in the same window is also fast. (There’s still work to do to share fonts across windows, or to reduce the time it takes to initialize these fonts.) - The performance of deeply-nested display: grid elements is greatly improved. - Support for profiling multiple java threads has been added. - Soft-reloading a web page will no longer cause revalidation for all resources. - Non-vsync tasks are given more time to run, which improves behavior on Google docs and Twitch. - Geckoview APIs have been added to control the start/stop time of capturing a profile. - Some websites might not work correctly in Firefox version 100 due to Firefox’s new three-digit number. (How-to Fix Guide) - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 101.0? Mozilla Firefox 101.0 version was released on May 31, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - New preference/flag available to restore classic system print preview dialog box again (How-to Guide) - Reading is now easier with the prefers-contrast media query, which allows sites to detect if the user has requested that web content is presented with a higher (or lower) contrast. - All non-configured MIME types can now be assigned a custom action upon download completion. - Firefox now allows users to use as many microphones as you want, at the same time, during video conferencing. The benefit is that you can easily switch your microphones at any time (if your conferencing service provider enables this flexibility). - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 102.0? Mozilla Firefox 102.0 version was released on June 28, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - Now you can force Firefox to start downloads in TEMP folder again like previous versions. (How-to Guide) - Now you can disable automatic opening of the Download Panel by right-clicking on the Downloads icon in toolbar and unchecking “Show Panel When Download Begins” option. - Firefox now mitigates query parameter tracking when navigating sites in ETP (Enhanced Tracking Protection) strict mode. - Improved security by moving audio decoding into a separate process with stricter sandboxing, thus improving process isolation. - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 103.0? Mozilla Firefox 103.0 version was released on July 26, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - Buttons in the Tabs toolbar can now be reached with Tab, Shift+Tab, and Arrow keys. (How-to Restore Guide) - The “Make text bigger” accessibility setting in Windows now affects all the UI and content pages, rather than only applying to system font sizes. (How-to Fix Guide) - You can now change subtitles font size directly from the PiP (Picture-in-Picture) window. - You can now conveniently access Firefox, which will now be pinned to the Windows taskbar during installation on Windows 10 and Windows 11. - Required fields are now highlighted in PDF forms. - Improved responsiveness on macOS during periods of high CPU load by switching to a modern lock API. - Improved performance on high-refresh rate monitors (120Hz+). - Removed a configuration option to allow SHA-1 signatures in certificates are now not supported. - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 104.0? Mozilla Firefox 104.0 version was released on August 23, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - New dedicated Extensions menu button can be added to the toolbar (How-to Enable guide) - Subtitles are now available for Disney+ in Picture-in-Picture. - Firefox now supports both the scroll-snap-stop property as well as re-snapping. You can use the scroll-snap-stop property’s always and normal values to specify whether or not to pass the snap points, even when scrolling fast. Re-snapping tries to keep the last snap position after any content/layout changes. - The Firefox profiler can analyze power usage of a website (Apple M1 and Windows 11 only). - The Firefox UI itself will now be throttled for performance and battery usage when minimized or occluded, in the same way background tabs are. - Highlight color is now preserved correctly after typing Enter in the mail composer of Yahoo Mail and Outlook. - After bypassing the https only error page navigating back would take you to the error page that was previously dismissed. Back now takes you to the previous site that was visited. - Paste unformatted shortcut (shift+ctrl/cmd+v) now works in plain text contexts, such as input and text area. - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 105.0? Mozilla Firefox 105.0 version was released on September 20, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - Added an option to print only the current page from the print preview dialog. - Firefox now supports partitioned service workers in third-party contexts. You can register service workers in a third-party iframe and it will be partitioned under the top-level domain. - Swipe to navigate (two fingers on a touchpad swiped left or right to perform history back or forward) on Windows is now enabled. - Firefox is now compliant with the User Timing L3 specification, which adds additional optional arguments to the performance.mark and performance.measure methods to provide custom start times, end times, duration, and attached details. - Searching in large lists for individual items is now 2x faster. This performance enhancement replaces array.includes and array.indexOf with an optimized SIMD version. - Stability on Windows is significantly improved as Firefox handles low-memory situations much better. - Touchpad scrolling on macOS was made more accessible by reducing unintended diagonal scrolling opposite of the intended scroll axis. - Firefox is less likely to run out of memory on Linux and performs more efficiently for the rest of the system when memory runs low. - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 106.0? Mozilla Firefox 106.0 version was released on October 18, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - Firefox View: A pinned tab allows you to find and open recently closed tabs on your current device, access tabs from other devices and change the look of the browser (with Colorways). (How-to Remove Guide) - The tabs search (drop-down arrow button) is now always visible in Firefox title bar (How-to Remove Guide) - Private browsing windows have been redesigned to increase the feeling of privacy. Dark mode is enabled by default. (How-to Restore Classic UI) - Now private browsing windows use separate Taskbar icon and you can pin private windows to Taskbar in Windows 10 and Windows 11. (How-to Disable Guide) - You can now edit PDFs: including writing text, drawing, and adding signatures. - Setting Firefox as your default browser now also makes it the default PDF application on Windows systems. - Swipe-to-navigate (two fingers on a touchpad swiped left or right to perform history back or forward) now works for Linux users on Wayland. - Text Recognition in images allows users on macOS 10.15 and higher to copy or extract text from the selected image (such as a meme or screenshot). Extracted text is copied to the clipboard in order to share, store, or search without needing to manually retype everything. This feature is compatible with “VoiceOver,” the built-in macOS screen reader. (How-to Disable Guide) - With the launch of the “Independent Voices” collection, Firefox is introducing 18 new “Colorways” themes. You can now access a “Colorways” modal experience via “Firefox View”. The collection will be available through Jan 16. (How-to Remove Guide) - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 107.0? Mozilla Firefox 107.0 version was released on November 15, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft’s IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11 version 22H2. - Power profiling – visualizing performance data recorded from web browsers – is now also supported on Linux and Mac with Intel CPUs, in addition to Windows 11 and Apple Silicon. - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 108.0? Mozilla Firefox 108.0 version was released on December 13, 2022. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - Processes used for background tabs now use efficiency mode on Windows 11 to limit resource use. - The Shift+Esc keyboard shortcut now opens the Process Manager, offering a way to quickly identify processes that are using too many resources. - Import maps, which allow web pages to control the behavior of JavaScript imports, are now enabled by default. - Improved frame scheduling when under load; this substantially improves Firefox’s MotionMark scores. - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 109.0? Mozilla Firefox 109.0 version was released on January 17, 2023. It came with following new features, changes, fixes and improvements: - New “Extensions” button added to toolbar to manage installed extensions. (How-to Remove Guide) - On macOS, Ctrl or Cmd + trackpad or mouse wheel now scrolls the page instead of zooming. (How-to Restore Guide) - The Recently Closed section of Firefox View now equips users with the ability to manually close/remove url links from the list. - Manifest Version 3 (MV3) extension support is now enabled by default. MV2 extensions will remain enabled and supported. - Effective on January 16, Colorways themes will no longer be in Firefox. Users will still be able to access saved and active Colorways from the Add-ons and themes menu option. - The Arbitrary Code Guard exploit protection has been enabled in media playback utility processes, improving security for Windows users. - The native HTML date picker for date and datetime inputs can now be used with a keyboard alone, improving its accessibility for screen reader users. - Users with limited mobility can also now use common keyboard shortcuts to navigate the calendar grid and month selection spinners. - Firefox builds in the Spanish from Spain (es-ES) and Spanish from Argentina (es-AR) locales now come with a built-in dictionary for the Firefox spellchecker. - The empty state messages and graphic components surfaced in Firefox View for the Tab Pickup and Recently Closed sections have been updated for an improved user experience. - Security fixes - Various bug fixes and improvements - New group policies implemented - Developer improvements Read changelog of newer versions of Mozilla Firefox web browser: [Changelog] What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 110 and Later Versions [Changelog] What’s New in Mozilla Firefox 120 and Later Versions Also Check: Download Mozilla Firefox Offline Installer [Changelog] What’s New in Google Chrome Newer Versions


--- [Firefox 107 released with performance improvements for ... - Winaero] ---
The team behind the only non-Chromium based web browser has released a new version of the app. Firefox 107 performs better on Windows 11 version 22H2, allows using Power profiling on Mac and Linux, and fixes 20 vulnerabilities. Advertisеment What's new in Firefox 107 New features - Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11 version 22H2. - The ability to analyze power consumption is now available the profiling interface (Performance tab in the developer tools) on Linux and Mac with Intel CPUs, in addition to Windows 11 and Apple Silicon. - It is now easy to debug add-ons based on WebExtension technology with DevTools. The "--devtools" option ( webext run --devtools ) has been added to the webext utility. It allows you to automatically open a browser window with web developer tools, for example, to identify the cause of an error. - There are also improvements to make it easier to inspect pop-up windows. - Finally, there is now a Reload button in the panel to refresh WebExtension after making changes to its code. Fixes Version 107 comes with 20 fixes, with the following impact: - high impact: 9. - moderate impact: 9. - low impact: 2. For Enterprise users, Firefx 107 also offer various bug fixes and new policies. Interested users can find the details in Enterprise Release Notes. Firefox on Android Firefox 107 for Android now comes with Total Cookie Protection enabled by default. It is part of the Enhanced Tracking Protection setting. To configure it, use the Custom or Strict profile instead of the Standard protection option. It will isolate cookies per site, making it impossible to use cookies for tracking the user. Download Firefox 107 You can grab the installer from the official announcement web page. Alternatively, you can visit this page: https://releases.mozilla.org/pub/firefox/releases/107.0/. You will find there a set of folders arranged by a platform and UI language. Pick the distro that matches your operating system. Support us Winaero greatly relies on your support. You can help the site keep bringing you interesting and useful content and software by using these options: Bitcoin: 18amKj99FCPUfnnpqZ6XCG2h3TGeUTCeY7


--- [Firefox 107 out with security fixes and Windows performance ...] ---
Firefox 107 out with security fixes and Windows performance improvements Mozilla Firefox 107 will be released later today. The new Stable version of the Firefox web browser fixes several security issues in the browser and improves performance for some users who run the browser on Windows 11 version 22H2 devices. For the most part, Firefox 107 is a smaller release though. Next to Firefox 107, a new Extended Support Release version, ESR, is also released. Firefox 102.5 ESR will become available later today as well. Mozilla publishes updates for all development versions of Firefox around the time Firefox Stable is updated. This moves Firefox Beta and Dev to version 108, and Firefox Nightly to version 109. Ashwin covered the big new feature of Firefox 107 for Android yesterday already. Executive Summary - Firefox 107 is a security update. We don't know how serious the fixes are at this point, but will update the article once Mozilla publishes information about the update. - Firefox 108 Stable will be the last major browser release of 2022. A few point releases may be released as well to address bugs and issues. - Mozilla fixed a total of 19 different security issues in the browser. The highest severity of the vulnerabilities is high. Firefox 107 download and update Firefox 107's release date is November 15, 2022. The browser becomes available on that day and most Firefox installations should pick up the new version automatically. Since it is a security release, Firefox users may want to update as soon as possible. This is done either with a manual check for updates, or by downloading the latest installer from the Mozilla website. To check for updates in Firefox, select Menu > Help > About Firefox. The current version is displayed when About Firefox is selected. Firefox runs a check for updates and downloads/installs any new version that it finds. Here are the official download locations: - Firefox Stable download - Firefox Beta download - Nightly download - Firefox ESR download - Firefox for Android on Google Play Firefox 107.0 new features and improvements Firefox 107 Stable is light on new features. The official release notes list just two improvements. Windows 11 users who have updated the operating system to the Windows 11 2022 Update already may notice performance improvements under certain conditions. This applies only to systems on which Windows Defender is the security tool and Microsoft IME, Input Method Editor, is used. Mozilla notes that it has improved the performance when the URL of the active document is retrieved by Windows Defender under these conditions. Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11 version 22H2. The second change introduces support for power profiling to Linux and Mac devices with Intel processors. The feature was only available on Windows 11 and Apple Silicon devices previously. Mozilla introduced it in the Firefox 104 Stable release. Check out our guide on analyzing the power usage of websites in Firefox, for an in-depth guide. Other changes and fixes Developer - The contain-intrinsic-size shorthand property was improved. It allows developers to "determine the size of an element without needing to render its child element". - The non-standard and deprecated SVGSVGElement.useCurrentView property has been removed. - Mozilla improved the debugging of WebExtensions in the new release. Changes highlighted include inspecting popup windows created by WebExtensions, a new webext argument, to automatically open the Developer Tools (using --devtools), and reload in the Developer Tools to see changes made to WebExtensions right away. Enterprise changes None published. Known Issues None listed. Security updates / fixes Security updates are revealed after the official release of the web browser. You find the information published here after release. We will update the review of Firefox 107 once the information is published by Mozilla. Mozilla fixed 19 different security issues in Firefox. Several vulnerabilities have a high severity, second only to critical. At least some of the vulnerabilities affect Firefox ESR as well. Outlook Firefox 108 Stable and Firefox 102.6 ESR are expected on December 13, 2022. Firefox extension reviews and news Recent Firefox news and tips - Firefox 106.0.5 fixes a crash on certain Intel systems - Firefox 106.0.4 fixes browser crashes - Mozilla may extend Firefox on Windows 7 and 8.1 support - Firefox 106.0.3 fixes a crash and hangs on Windows - Firefox 106.0.2 fixes a freeze, opening issue and more - Firefox Beta for Android now supports custom add-on collections - Firefox 106.0.1 fixes a crash on certain AMD systems - How to hide Firefox's List All Tabs icon Additional information / sources


--- [Firefox 107 Now Available for Download - Softpedia] ---
Mozilla has started the rollout of Firefox 107, another big version of the browser that’s currently considered the only alternative to the invasion of Chromium-powered apps. Firefox 107 is obviously an important release, and just as expected, it comes with improvements aimed at both Windows 11 and Mac users. As far as Windows 11 is concerned, Firefox 107 includes good news for computers that have already been updated to the 2022 Update – keep in mind that this version of Windows 11 is now rolling out to users out there, and the general availability is yet to be reached. The following new features are available in Firefox 107: - Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11 version 22H2. - Power profiling — visualizing performance data recorded from web browsers — is now also supported on Linux and Mac with Intel CPUs, in addition to Windows 11 and Apple Silicon. Other than that, the new version of the browser is focused on further polishing and improvements. For instance, the new Firefox update resolves several vulnerabilities in the browser, including seven different security flaws that have been given a high severity rating. - CVE-2022-45403: Service Workers might have learned size of cross-origin media files - CVE-2022-45404: Fullscreen notification bypass - CVE-2022-45405: Use-after-free in InputStream implementation - CVE-2022-45406: Use-after-free of a JavaScript Realm - CVE-2022-45407: Loading fonts on workers was not thread-safe - CVE-2022-45408: Fullscreen notification bypass via windowName - CVE-2022-45409: Use-after-free in Garbage Collection According to third-party numbers, Firefox is currently the third most popular browser in the world after Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge – the latter is now offered as the native browser on Windows 10 and Windows 11, so it’s no surprise that its market share increased significantly lately.


--- [New Update - Firefox 107 Stable Release with security fixes and Windows ...] ---
silversurfer Super Moderator Thread author Verified Top Poster Staff Member Malware Hunter Forum Veteran - Aug 17, 2014 - 12,814 - 124,269 - 8,399 Mozilla Firefox 107 will be released later today. The new Stable version of the Firefox web browser fixes several security issues in the browser and improves performance for some users who run the browser on Windows 11 version 22H2 devices. Firefox 107 out with security fixes and Windows performance improvements - gHacks Tech News Firefox 107 Stable is out. The security update improves performance on Windows 11 and makes some other smaller changes. www.ghacks.net New - Improved the performance of the instance when Microsoft's IME and Defender retrieve the URL of a focused document in Windows 11 version 22H2. - Power profiling — visualizing performance data recorded from web browsers — is now also supported on Linux and Mac with Intel CPUs, in addition to Windows 11 and Apple Silicon. Fixed - Various security fixes. Firefox 107.0, See All New Features, Updates and Fixes www.mozilla.org Last edited:
