=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Tudor - Wikipedia]
David Eugene Tudor (January 20, 1926 – August 13, 1996) was an American pianist and composer of experimental music. After playing the U.S. premiere of the Piano Sonata No. 2 by Pierre Boulez in 1950, he premiered works by American composers including Morton Feldman and especially John Cage written for him; Karlheinz Stockhausen dedicated a ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Tudor

[PREPARED GUITAR: CONVERSATION WITH DAVID TUDOR]
In 1969, Tudor set up India's first electronic music studio at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad. Upon Cage's death in 1992, Tudor took over as music director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company.
URL: https://preparedguitar.blogspot.com/2016/06/conversation-with-david-tudor.html

[This London-based musician-researcher has traced the origins of ...]
Jun 4, 2023 · New York-based pianist and experimental music composer, David Tudor came to India in the late ’60s with a Moog synthesiser and set up the country’s first electronic music studio at National ...
URL: https://www.mid-day.com/sunday-mid-day/article/the-sound-of-synth-23290317

[The NID Tapes: The India Connection - Electronic Sound]
Sep 14, 2023 · India’s first Moog synthesiser arrived in Ahmedabad in several wooden crates from Trumansburg, New York, in 1969. There was no keyboard attached at the outset, although it did have a linear ribbon controller. The avant-garde composer and pianist David Tudor took receipt of the machine and installed it at the NID electronic music studio he had established there that same year. Tudor – who ...
URL: https://www.electronicsound.co.uk/features/long-reads/the-nid-tapes-the-india-connection/

[David Tudor (January 20, 1926 — August 13, 1996), American composer ...]
In 1969, Tudor set up India"s first electronic music studio at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad. Upon Cage"s death in 1992, Tudor took over as music director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company.
URL: https://prabook.com/web/david.tudor/2536018


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Tudor - Wikipedia] ---
David Eugene Tudor (January 20, 1926  – August 13, 1996) was an American pianist and composer of experimental music. After playing the U.S. premiere of the Piano Sonata No. 2 by Pierre Boulez in 1950, he premiered works by American composers including Morton Feldman and especially John Cage written for him; Karlheinz Stockhausen dedicated a work to him. He turned to composing, including many projects for the Merce Cunningham Dance Company. He set up India's first electronic music studio at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad in 1969. After Cage's death in 1992, he succeeded him as music director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company.


--- [PREPARED GUITAR: CONVERSATION WITH DAVID TUDOR] ---
interview by Gustavo Matamoros and Russell Frehling Frehling, October, 1995 Conversation with David Tudor [audio interview] David Eugene Tudor (January 20, 1926 – August 13, 1996) was an American pianist and composer of experimental music. Tudor was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He studied piano with Irma Wolpe and composition with Stefan Wolpe and became known as one of the leading performers of avant garde piano music. He gave the first American performance of the Piano Sonata No. 2 by Pierre Boulez in 1950, and a European tour in 1954 greatly enhanced his reputation. Karlheinz Stockhausen dedicated his Klavierstück VI (1955) to Tudor. Tudor also gave early performances of works by Morton Feldman, Earle Brown and La Monte Young. The composer with whom Tudor is particularly associated is John Cage; he gave the premiere of Cage's Music of Changes, Concert For Piano and Orchestra and the notorious 4' 33". Cage said that many of his pieces were written either specifically for Tudor to perform or with him in mind, once stating "what you had to do was to make a situation that would interest him. That was the role he played.” The two worked closely together on many of Cage's pieces, both works for piano and electronic pieces, including for the Smithsonian Folkways album: Indeterminacy: New Aspect of Form in Instrumental and Electronic Music (1959). Tudor also performs on several recordings of Cage's music, including the Mainstream record of Cartridge Music, the recording on Columbia Records of Variations II, and the two Everest records of Variations IV. After a stint teaching at Darmstadt from 1956 to 1961, Tudor began to wind up his activities as a pianist to concentrate on composing. He wrote mostly electronic works, many commissioned by Cage's partner, choreographer Merce Cunningham. His homemade musical circuits are considered landmarks in live electronic music and electrical instrument building as a form of composition. One piece, Reunion (1968), written jointly with Lowell Cross features a chess game, where each move triggers a lighting effect or projection. At the premiere, the game was played between John Cage and Marcel Duchamp. Reunion is erroneously attributed to Cage in James Pritchett's book The Music Of John Cage. In 1969, Tudor set up India's first electronic music studio at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad. Upon Cage's death in 1992, Tudor took over as music director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company. Among many works created for the company, Tudor composed Soundings: Ocean Diary (1994), the electronic component of Ocean, which was conceived by John Cage and Merce Cunningham, with choreography by Merce Cunningham, orchestral music by Andrew Culver and design by Marsha Skinner. Tudor died in Tomkins Cove, New York at the age of 70. David Tudor: I have a friend who wrote a memoir about my activity. His name is John Holdzapfel. I guess eventually people will be taking the opportunity to take a look at my compositional career. And that's part of it. Because it took me a long, long time to actually call myself a composer cause I was surrounded by other composers and I did't want to call attention to myself. But eventually, it catches up with you. GM: How much of the piece comes from a process of improvisation as you are performing? Or is there some other idea that is more appropriate to describe the process of performing it? DT: Strictly speaking it's improvisational. What usually happens is that you think in terms of how long a performance that you wish to give, and just insure that there is enough sound source material to give… like sufficient choice so that you are never at a loss to introduce a new element in the composition. And that pleases me because I like it when the composition takes… more exactly… the course of the composition… when it takes an unexpected turn. And that happens easily with the neural network. RF: David, if I may. Can you talk about your concept of these source tapes, and what goes into the preparation of them? DT: It's all aimed towards exciting the Neural Network synthesizer to perform… [laughs]. I wish I were able to remember the synthesizer more exactly. It's been a couple of years since I had it under me hands. When I have it in front of me, I know where all the controls are… inexpensive talking clock: It's 2 o'clock pm… RF: It seems that your work is so intimately connected with the instrument at hand whether it is the Neural Net at this point, or some of the other systems you developed before that, that the difference between these categories of composer, or performer, or musician, they become irrelevant distinctions. They are one and the same. It seems that those instruments become the structures of the compositions… a physical thing. It's no longer sort of an abstraction on paper. DT: The setup becomes an instrument itself. I lay the tables out to have access to all the possibilities. When I have a good night, it all gets displayed. But sometimes that doesn't happen. It doesn't disturb me at all because if the sound source–the initial sound source–is really coherent, you don't have to worry about displaying all of its possibilities. RF: Can you describe the sound materials that you found to be effective with the Neural Net? Those kinds of sound materials that excite the system? DT: Well, right now my practice is to limit myself to three source tapes–but actually, that's just a convenience, cause right now, if you record your initial sound source on disc, it's much more convenient than having like six machines… [laughs] …which is what I've been accustomed to doing for many years. In other words, using everything that is available. But I've learned not to do that. And it's not the idea that, “Less is more”, but, if you set out with plenty, you can't miss. And the Neural Net circuitry is very responsive to variations like feeding it only low frequencies or only high frequencies. And it just takes five or six different attempts, you get quite familiar with the possibilities. And then you just have to have a compositional plan. GM: Do you device a compositional plan for each time you do i. DT: Yes. I do. GM: If you were to want to perform the piece soon, what would be an interesting plan to follow? DT: First of all I would start out by thinking about how long I would like the piece to go on for. And then you begin to think about what source materials that you do have available. For instance, if you just have three tapes that you are using, you try to equate it with the length of the concert that you wish to produce. Sometimes I think about featuring certain components trying to design a composition which will display what the components can do. You know, how much variety that you can produce with… And there are all kinds of ways to alter the sound of the components, and over the years I've become good at it. More and more my tables tend to get smaller rather than larger. Thank god. GM: Still it takes a long time to set up. Is a lot of very intricate connections, it seems. DT: Well… I don't think of it as a long time. [laughs]. It takes, you know… three hours, just to test it and set it up, and, once it's done, it can last for quite some time. Occasionally I've made installations which go on and on for weeks. In which case you just have to make sure that there is enough variation to satisfy the length that you need to produce. GM: It's a question of scale, there… DT: Yes! always, and then you also have to think in term of the power that you need. GM: By that do you mean amplification? DT: Yeah. AhA. GM: That's also scale. DT: Yeah. That is a related problem, cause some components need a different level at their input to activate the component without overdriving it to distortion. RF: How important does the performance space become to the variations of a given performance? What's possible? Is the room a big player in the performance? DT: Oh, yes! it's for me. When I come into a space I always try to sense it, how big or how small, and how much power that I'll need to drive it with. GM: So what do you look for when you are trying to size a room? DT: I look for anything different. I mean, what makes a space different? Is the space round? Or is it square? Or is it multiple? If I have six rooms to perform in it's a very different situation. But I enjoy all of the situations and all the differences. That's what I look for, what makes a space different when it has sound in it… when you put sound into it. RF: In the Neural Net is there an acoustical link in the feedback system where a sound gets put out into the space and brought back in? or does it take place primarily in the electronic realm and then, at the end it gets broadcast into the space? DT: I set up the table so that each component that I use, I can introduce feedback to it. And then, if I think the sound of it is possible when it's overdriven, then I use it. But feedback is quite important to my process. And recently I had the opportunity to look over some papers from the designer of several of my components that I use and depend upon. What stroke me, what the fact that, because the people that I was working with were able to anticipate how I'd set about using their designs, they dealt with parameters, for instance like heat, knowing that the components would be overdriven, and making sure that the components–the way the devices were made–would be able to withstand that. And I've been quite lucky in that, because otherwise it would be, you know, many components that I could use, but I would not call into action because there are other things that gave more possibilities. DURATION: 14m41s DATE: OCT-1995 LOCATION: Tompkins Cove, NY NOTES: This is a highly edited, noise-reduced version of the (roughly) 90-plus-minute original conversation with David Tudor. This 14m41s version was produced by Gustavo Matamoros to be presented 2016.03.25 during the David Tudor Symposium at Wesleyan University. The original conversation was recorded by Gustavo Matamoros as raw material for SFCA's Fishtanks Radio Journal. Both are part of SFCA [isaw+subtropics] iSAW Media Archive Gustavo Matamoros and Russell Frehling converse with DAVID TUDOR about NEURAL NETWORK PLUS, which he performed in a solo concert on 1993.04.01 at Wolfson Auditorium (MDC-Wolfson Campus, Miami) during Subtropics 5 Festival (subtropics.org). Other subjects were discussed MORE in PREPARED GUITAR SOUND: CONFRONTING THE SILENCE by Toru Takemitsu (June 02, 2016) Gardener of Time by Toru Takemitsu (May 31, 2016) Le Picadilly by Erik Satie (1866-1925) by Ya-Ling Chen (May 25, 2016) Le Picadilly by Erik Satie (1866-1925) by Ya-Ling Chen (May 25, 2016) Poeme Electronique by Edgar Varese (May, 10, 2016) Pierre Schaeffer Interview by Tim Hodgkinson FIRST PART (April 21, 2016) Pierre Schaeffer Interview by Tim Hodgkinson SECOND PART (May 04, 2016) Erratum musical by Marcel Duchamp, 1913 (April 20, 2016) The Music of Marcel Duchamp (April 13, 2016) The Liberation of Sound by Edgard Varese (March 11, 2016) Sound Aesthetics Iannis Xenakis Films (January 14, 2016) Morton Feldman and Iannis Xenakis - In conversation (January 8, 2016) Sound Aesthetics: Xenakis (January 7, 2016) Sound Aesthetics Christian Wolff on Feldman (October 23, 2015) Pinhas Deleuze Sound language (January 21, 2016) John Cage and David Tudor - Music in the Technological Age (September 15, 2015) John Cage and Morton Feldman In Conversation (September 8, 2015) 4'33'' Cage for guitar by Revoc (July 10, 2015) John Cage: An Autobiographical Statement (May 22, 2015) Angle(s) VI John Cage (April 30, 2015) Morton Feldman (March 16, 2015) Morton Feldman and painting (October 3, 2014)


--- [This London-based musician-researcher has traced the origins of ...] ---
A London-based musician-researcher’s novel discovery traces the origins of electronic music in India to a studio in Ahmedabad’s National School of Design New York-based pianist and experimental music composer, David Tudor came to India in the late ’60s with a Moog synthesiser and set up the country’s first electronic music studio at National Institute of Design (NID) in Ahmedabad. Pics Courtesy/National Institute of Design-Archive, Ahmedabad This is All India Radio, Ahmedabad, Baroda. We now present a discussion of electro-acoustic music conducted by Mr Atul Desai, electronic music composer. Participants in the discussion are Mr IS Mathur and Mr Vikas Satwalekar,” went the announcement on the now Akashvani radio station, in the early ’70s. Following this was a snippet on the origins of electronic music in India. The music composition, few seconds long, wasn’t the fusion-electronic beats you hear these days; it was experimental and loud enough to make your toes curl but it piqued our curiosity. Later this year, a collection of tapes recorded at the National Institute of Design (NID) Ahmedabad, between 1969 to 1972, will be released by UK based independent music label Area 51 records. The NID Tapes are a collection of early Indian electronic music, and will be released as a two-LP edition. A single from the same collection, After the War by SC Sharma, was released last month on streaming platforms. This archival collection is the outcome of Paul Purgas, a London-based musician and researcher’s, digging. The NID Tapes are a collection of archival recordings which musician and researcher, Paul Purgas traces as the origin of electronic music in India How did Purgas get his hands on what is considered to be India’s first recordings of electronic music dating back to the late ’60s? And how did he trace electronic music to this decade and not the ’80s, when early Indian electronic music is usually associated with Charanjit Singh’s 1982 acid-house album, Synthesizing: Ten Ragas to a Disco Beat? “The journey,” says Purgas, “started after I read an article in 2016 about David Tudor coming to India in the late ’60s.” Tudor, who passed away in 1996, was a pianist and experimental music composer. He was known for his association with music theorist and composer, John Cage, a pioneer of indeterminacy in music, electro-acoustic music, and non-standard use of musical instruments. “This got me curious,” continues Purgas, “because it mentioned NID, a design school, its links to New York avant-garde and an early Moog synthesiser.” A year later, Purgas found himself at NID. Purgas came back to NID in 2018 with better equipment to listen to the tapes. He consulted the British Library on the correct procedure of handling and preserving archival tapes, which included around 30 hours worth of recording The collections include chronicles of electronic music by commercially lesser known composers such as Gita Sarabhai, IS Mathur, Atul Desai, SC Shama and Jinraj Joshipura. They recorded this at the nation’s first electronic music studio founded at the NID by Tudor, who also personally set up a Moog modular system (also known as a Moog synthesiser) and tape machine in 1969. It is a modular synthesiser developed by the American engineer Robert Moog in 1964, and was the first commercial synthesizer. It is credited with creating today’s analog synthesiser. Purgas’ first trip to NID in September 2017 led to the discovery of the tapes at the Knowledge Management Centre (KMC) in NID. “They were in the archives of the library and it appears that some of the tapes were last heard in the early ’90s, as per the log,” says Purgas. “So people were aware of their presence but I don’t think anyone had an idea of how culturally important they were. They symbolise India’s first major journey into electronic music.” He believes that, “as technology moved from analog to digital, people’s ability and inclination to access these became less and less.” There is also a curious gap between these recordings, the influence of disco and synth-driven Bollywood film music and Singh’s Ten Ragas to a Disco Beat in the 1980s. “It is about embracing and creating awareness around electronic music in India,” he says. “I don’t believe that the gap was a complete desert. Bollywood was working with Moog in the early ’70s and there were other experiments of bringing in electronic sounds to tracks, but shedding light on NID ‘s role can mobilise some kind of thorough research to fill these gaps,” he says over a video interview. His research also uncovered the role of the Sarabhai family in Tudor setting up the studio at the institute they founded. “In order to make the space cutting edge for education and innovation, NID had modern equipment, whether it was film and video or the electronic studio,” explains Purgas. “The Sarabhais—Gita and Gautam—were interested in bringing this modern equipment to NID and David was in touch with them. John Cage also visited Ahmedabad in the early ’60s and there were lots of connections between Ahmedabad and the New York artiste community.” What is interesting about the studio, believes Purgas, “is the desire to shape its own identity in the face of social, political and economic conditions of recovering from the British imperial rule and trying to find the resources to build this experimental and forward thinking art and design culture.” Talking about the music, Purgas says that it was very different from Bollywood. “It was unique with a lot of experimental thinking around design, arts and crafts. It was inspired by modernism, avant garde ideas, a free thinking approach to creativity that went with the radical thinking of the Sarabhai family.” Purgas was not able to see the original Moog, because it was last known to be in possession of a former NID student, who passed away. Its whereabouts are now unknown. He also didn’t get a chance to see the original studio either. His process of recovering the tapes started in 2018, when he came back to the institute with his own equipment. He shares that even though NID had a reel-to-reel (an audio tape recording), he chose to not play anything and instead went back to England and contacted the British Library for their guidelines on how to correctly handle and preserve old reel analog tapes and the equipment required while working with them. “I brought a reel-to-reel recorder from the UK and a small food dehydrator because I was advised that some old tapes start to degrade and need to be baked in an oven to reset the chemicals to be played again. I had to bake three tapes,” he recalls. All in all, he managed to salvage 30 hours of audio. “I didn’t know what I was going to discover on the tapes, but it was experimental music in its purest form and I had never heard anything like that so early in that time coming out of India. I was both surprised and amazed at the recordings I heard.” The records will also be accompanied by a book, titled Subcontentinental Synthesis: Electronic Music at the National Institute of Design, India 1969–1972 (Strange Attractor Press and MIT Press) which is edited by Purgas. The book will be a collection of critical essays that will reflect on the larger cultural and political dialogues surrounding the studio as well as written contributions by Geeta Dayal, You Nakai, Rahila Haque and Jinraj Joshipura, the last surviving composer from the NID. Interacting with Joshipura was an extraordinary experience, Purgas recalls. “Even after 50 years, he is still passionate about electronic music.” Purgas tells us that Joshipura was just 19 years old when he heard about Tudor hosting electronic classes, and managed to get into the programme. “He told me about David challenging him to make his first composition, and how he was inspired by Stanley Kubrik’s 2001: A Space Odyssey and decided to make his own version of a sonic journey which turned out to be Space Linear 2001. To hear this and the imagination of a 19-year-old electronic composer from India in that moment was really magical,” shares Purgas. He believes that it would be amazing to have someone read about the NID Tapes and trigger a thought or memory in them or some other activity that might have happened at the same time. “I hope this work can help set in motion some other research on this subject,” he concludes.


--- [The NID Tapes: The India Connection - Electronic Sound] ---
‘The NID Tapes’ is an extraordinary compilation of early Indian electronic tracks recorded at the National Institute of Design in Ahmedabad between 1969 and 1972. Sound artist Paul Purgas relays the story of how he uncovered these long-forgotten gems It all started with a tweet. In 2016, the London-based multidisciplinary artist Paul Purgas unsuspectingly clicked on a link that would change the course of his life forever. The article within said tweet – ‘Subcontinental Synth: David Tudor And The First Moog In India’, written by Alexander Keefe – was originally published in 2013 and had been retweeted by a music journalist Purgas followed. It told the labyrinthine tale of how a Moog synthesiser ended up at the National Institute of Design (NID) in Ahmedabad, India, in 1969. For Purgas, a British-Asian electronic musician who’d come from an architectural design background, it seemed like a no-brainer to pursue a narrative that potentially connected strands of design history, South Asia and electronic music. “It just seemed like a fascinating story,” he enthuses, sitting across from me in an elegant bar tucked away in the basement of London’s Somerset House, where his studio is located. “So I decided to go to Ahmedabad and learn more – I’d been touring with my band Emptyset and I had a lot of air miles piled up.” So in 2017, he made his first trip to India to find out more. This month sees the release of double album ‘The NID Tapes: Electronic Music From India 1969-1972’ on the State51 Conspiracy label. Curated by Purgas, it features recordings from American experimentalist David Tudor, Indian classical musician Gita Sarabhai and four all-but-forgotten electronic composers – Atul Desai, IS Mathur, SC Sharma and Jinraj Joshipura, who was just 19 years old when he joined the facility. The last surviving composer from the National Institute of Design, Joshipura is now living and teaching in Puerto Rico. ‘The NID Tapes’ is the culmination so far of a story that winds and twists, with Purgas’ accidental intervention crucial to uncovering a lost history of the country’s electronic avant-garde. Since his first mission of discovery, Purgas has made a lauded BBC Radio 3 documentary, 2020’s ‘Electronic India’. There’s a book in November, edited by Purgas and published by Strange Attractor Press. And if that weren’t enough, there’s also a dynamic exhibition and sound installation curated by Purgas – ‘We Found Our Own Reality’ – which has made its way from Camden to Berlin and Glasgow and promises to keep moving. While the projects that have sprung from the source keep proliferating, we must start with the synthesiser, which became an unobtainable object of Purgas’ infatuation. “I naively thought I could find that Moog,” he tells me, referring to the model that ended up at the NID in 1969. In truth, he came close, although it looked as if he might ultimately go home empty-handed. “I’d spoken to Moog and had been given their blessing to restore the synthesiser if it could be found. So I went out to Ahmedabad and made contact with the owner, who was a former faculty member.” The owner, who has since passed away, was not as forthcoming as Purgas had hoped, and actually seemed suspicious of his motives. The instrument was apparently resting in a home for stray cats and dogs on the outskirts of the city near the airport. “I’d been told there were termites living in it, but it was in good health,” says Purgas. “So it was a complex and strange encounter.” Having failed to secure the Golden Fleece, he decided to look through the archives at the NID with a view to finding photographs. “Digging more closely, I found a book of handwritten notes from the late 1960s,” he remembers. “There was a note that said, ‘Tapes for David’. It immediately piqued my interest, so I asked the lady working there, ‘Can you get these tapes?’.” A cupboard was located, and out came the motherlode. India’s first Moog synthesiser arrived in Ahmedabad in several wooden crates from Trumansburg, New York, in 1969. There was no keyboard attached at the outset, although it did have a linear ribbon controller. The avant-garde composer and pianist David Tudor took receipt of the machine and installed it at the NID electronic music studio he had established there that same year. Tudor – who is said to have been ambivalent towards Moogs and to Bob Moog himself – is perhaps best-known as the musician who performed many of John Cage’s works, including ‘4’33”’. He became an important figure in avant-garde sound design following his involvement with the Pepsi Pavilion at Osaka’s Expo ’70 – allegedly to Cage’s chagrin. Purgas has found that people in his own milieu are either Team Cage or Team Tudor. “I definitely lean more towards Tudor,” he reveals. “And actually, the more I’ve learned about his story, the more I’ve discovered about him keeping in touch with some of the composers at the NID – right into the 1980s. It seems he was very authentically invested in supporting that scene and culture, which I think is a beautiful thing.” The Moog would become the centrepiece of a faculty where Indian electronic music was effectively born. “What I hadn’t realised from reading the initial article was actually the magical context of the NID,” says Purgas. “The idea of this type of modernist architecture and radical pedagogy that you associate with the Bauhaus. Seeing that in India was exceptionally mind-expanding.” This freedom in the name of discovery was contrary to most Westerners’ perception of India at that time, which was exacerbated by The Beatles visiting the Maharishi for an extended stay in 1968. Seeking spiritual enlightenment with the tools of ancient religious practice could be regarded as retrogressive. A Moog synthesiser, on the other hand, represented a mythical future rather than a mystical past, and fired the imagination at a time when space exploration was becoming a reality. Fast forward to 2017, and compositions that had been carelessly discarded – not thought important enough to preserve for posterity – and presumed lost were suddenly presented to Purgas in several towering piles. He could only imagine what might be sonically imprinted on these magnetic spools, and his initial excitement was soon overridden by an urge to preserve everything he had found. “Realising the value and importance of the material, my first instinct soon switched into the mode of conservationist,” he recalls. “I felt I had a responsibility to learn how to preserve and restore these tapes. This is essentially the electronic music culture of a billion people. “So I came back to the UK and contacted the British Library Sound Archive, who were incredibly generous and gave me a lot of advice and feedback. I actually took a whole year to learn tape conservation with them before returning to India in 2018 with my own TEAC tape deck, a food dehydrator like an oven to bake the tapes, and splicing tape – the whole kit – in order to go and do it myself.” That year of preparation and delayed gratification turned out to be worth it when Purgas had finished restoring the tapes and finally got to hear what was on them. Which track spoke to him the most? “The one that jumped out at me was one of the final compositions at the studio by SC Sharma, simply called ‘Dance Music’,” he says. “It’s a series of three compositions that are a kind of rhythmic proto-techno from September 1972. When I first picked it up, it fell apart in my hands because it was about 100 tape edits stuck together with Sellotape that had lost its adhesion. So it took me almost a day to reassemble that reel. To hear that coming out of 1970s India was just magic.” Geopolitical forces largely enabled the NID, and ultimately it would be geopolitical forces that closed it down in its original incarnation before it had really begun. Funding for the school had been provided by New York’s Ford Foundation and it was run by the Sarabhai family – well-connected industrialists who’d staunchly supported Mahatma Gandhi’s campaign for Indian freedom from British rule (the country gained independence in 1947). The generation of Sarabhais following these peaceful insurgents had been ingrained with a taste for radicalism and altruism. In 1961, Gira and Gautam Sarabhai – musician Gita Sarabhai’s siblings – helped establish the NID in accordance with recommendations from The India Report, commissioned by the country’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru and prepared by 20th century modernist design titans Charles and Ray Eames. As a young country recently emancipated from British colonial control, India was finding its way as any free-spirited teenager might, with experimentation the order of the day. A technocratic revolution beckoned, or so it seemed at the time. Gita Sarabhai, meanwhile, forged strong links with the post-war avant-garde in the US. In the mid-1960s, she learned the rudiments of Western musical theory and 12-tone serialism from John Cage. In exchange, Sarabhai introduced Cage to Indian classical music and philosophy. Their close association would inevitably lead to an acquaintance with Tudor. A honeymoon period ensued within a pedagogical programme pitched somewhere between the Montessori method and the Bauhaus. Anomalous though the NID sound studio was – situated in a design school as opposed to the radio-based Studio D’Essai, the Westdeutscher Rundfunk or the BBC’s Radiophonic Workshop – its modus operandi of sonic exploration was broadly the same. Jinraj Joshipura was looking beyond trying to incorporate the oscillations of the Moog with traditional music, and instead was considering ways in which electronic music could communicate with animals or send signals to submarines. This brief rush of creativity was to be short-lived, however. Funding from foreign sources, including the Ford Foundation, subsided and the administration came under scrutiny from the Indian government. As the department declined, it looked as if Joshipura would transfer to the Rockefeller Music Research Centre in San Diego to study sound synthesis after a recommendation from Tudor, but he was talked out of it by his pragmatic father, who told him to continue his architectural studies. Yet his Moog explorations were far from over – his fascination persists to this day, much to Purgas’ delight. “I went into the project believing everyone had passed away, so discovering Jinraj was beyond magical,” says Purgas. “He is an incredibly passionate person, still very interested after almost 50 years’ absence from electronic music, and now very much reinspired. It’s a personal dream to reconnect Jinraj with the Moog and to try to get him to return to making electronic music. To me, that would be a really beautiful end to the story, and in a way that would complete the circle.” The story doesn’t end there, either. As mentioned earlier, Purgas’ exhibition ‘We Found Our Own Reality’ – a National Institute of Design soundwork located within a configuration of architectural and design components – may soon be coming to an art space near you. There are echoes of the NID in a “topographic framework referencing modernist architecture as well as India’s powerful textile industry, and South Asian ancient religious and mathematical traditions”. Alongside the installation will be a series of one-off performances connected to the original source material. Earlier this year, at Silent Green in Berlin, Purgas played a specially hired Moog Model 10 – offering a functionality as close as possible to the nascent Moog at the NID – with collaborative contributions from filmmaker Imran Perretta and rising producer Nabihah Iqbal. Purgas talks at length about seeking out later works by SC Sharma and his hopes of finding a lost soundtrack by Gita Sarabhai for Akbar Padamsee’s 1969 film, ‘Events In A Cloud Chamber’. But it occurs to me that he’s far from finished with subcontinental synthesis or indeed the NID. “I’m now entangled for life,” he admits with a laugh. “And I still feel bound to the Moog itself as an object. So I keep an eye on its trajectory and its care.” ‘The NID Tapes: Electronic Music From India 1969-1972’ is released by The State51 Conspiracy


--- [David Tudor (January 20, 1926 — August 13, 1996), American composer ...] ---
No content
