=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Zanele Muholi - Wikipedia]
Zanele Muholi FRPS (born 1972) [1] is a South African artist and visual activist working in photography, video, and installation. Muholi's work focuses on race, gender and sexuality with a body of work that dates back to the early 2000s, documenting and celebrating the lives of South Africa's Black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex communities. [2] Muholi is non-binary and uses they/them ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zanele_Muholi

[Zanele Muholi - Zeitz MOCAA]
Zanele Muholi lives in Johannesburg and was born in Umlazi, Durban. In 2003 she studied Advanced Photography at the Market Photo Workshop in Newtown, Johannesburg and completed an MFA in Documentary Media at Ryerson University, Toronto in 2009.
URL: https://zeitzmocaa.museum/artists/zanele-muholi/

[Zanele Muholi | Biography, Artwork, Photography, Self ...]
Zanele Muholi (born July 19, 1972, Umlazi, South Africa) identifies as a visual activist—rather than an artist—and is nonbinary, using they/them pronouns. Their work, primarily photography, seeks to make more visible the Black LGBTQIA+ community in South Africa, where discrimination has often repressed queer and trans stories. Muholi says of their ...
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Zanele-Muholi

[Zanele Muholi | Biography | STEVENSON]
Muholi won the 2019 'Best Photography Book Award' by the Kraszna-Krausz Foundation for Somnyama Ngonyama: Hail, The Dark Lioness (Aperture), and was shortlisted for the 2015 Deutsche Börse Photography Prize for the publication Faces and Phases 2006-14 (Steidl/The Walther Collection).
URL: https://www.stevenson.info/artist/zanele-muholi/biography

[Zanele Muholi's Faces & Phases - Aperture]
Apr 21, 2015 · Faces and Phases is the subject of an extensive book, published by Steidl last fall, that forms a monumental chapter in Muholi’s mission to remedy black queer invisibility. Muholi’s work has been exhibited globally and she will have her first large-scale museum exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum, Zanele Muholi: Isibonelo/Evidence, on May 1.
URL: https://aperture.org/editorial/magazine-zanele-muholis-faces-phases/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Zanele Muholi - Wikipedia] ---
Zanele Muholi  (born 1972) is a South African artist and visual activist working in photography, video, and installation. Muholi's work focuses on race, gender and sexuality with a body of work that dates back to the early 2000s, documenting and celebrating the lives of South Africa's Black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex communities. Muholi is non-binary and uses they/them pronouns, explaining that "I'm just human".
Muholi has described themselves as a visual activist as opposed to an artist. They are dedicated to increasing the visibility of black lesbian, gay, transgender, and intersex people. They researched and documented the stories of hate crimes against the LGBTQI community in order to bring forth the realities of "corrective rape," assault, and HIV/AIDS, to public attention.[1]
Muholi was shortlisted for the Deutsche Börse Photography Prize in 2015. They received an Infinity Award from the International Center of Photography in 2016, a Chevalier de Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 2016, and an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal Photographic Society in 2018.
Muholi had a retrospective exhibition on at Maison européenne de la photographie in Paris from 1 February to 25 May 2023. Their work was also shown that year at Mudec-Museo delle Culture in Milan, from 31 March through 30 July 2023, showcasing 60 self-portraits in black and white chosen especially for Mudec.


--- [Zanele Muholi - Zeitz MOCAA] ---
Zanele Muholi lives in Johannesburg and was born in Umlazi, Durban. In 2003 she studied Advanced Photography at the Market Photo Workshop in Newtown, Johannesburg and completed an MFA in Documentary Media at Ryerson University, Toronto in 2009. She is also an Honorary Professor at the University of the Arts/Hochschule für Künste Bremen. Her work aims to establish an archive of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and queer (LGBTIQ) individuals, ‘to re-write a black queer and trans visual history of South Africa for the world to know of our resistance and existence at the height of hate crimes in SA and beyond’. Both a photographer and activist, Muholi co-founded the Forum for Empowerment of Women (FEW) in 2002 and founded Inkanyiso in 2009, an online forum for queer visual media. Muholi continues to train and co-facilitate photography workshops for young queer individuals living in townships in order to empower them to document their lives, particularly black Africans where homophobia on the continent is perpetuated by the myth that homosexuality is traditionally ‘unAfrican’. Muholi’s subjects live in townships where the stigma of homosexuality can often lead to rape, violence, and murder. Over the course of her career Muholi has won numerous awards, including the ICP Infinity Award for Documentary and Photojournalism (2016); Africa’Sout! Courage and Creativity Award (2016); and the Outstanding International Alumni Award from Ryerson University (2016). To date, her publications include Zanele Muholi: African Women Photographers #1 (Casa Africa and La FÃ¡brica, 2011); Faces and Phases (Prestel, 2010); and Only half the picture (Stevenson, 2006). She was also awarded the prize for emerging artist at the 2013 Carnegie International; a Prince Claus Award (2013); the Index on Censorship-Freedom of Expression art award (2013); and the Casa Africa award for best female photographer and a Fondation Blachère award at Les Rencontres de Bamako biennial of African photography (2009). Most recent solo exhibitions include Somnyama Ngonyama at Wentrup (Berlin, Germany: 2017); Documenting Identity, Teaching Activism at Saint Michael’s College Colchester (Vermont, USA: 2017); Faces and Phases at Sewanee University Art Gallery (Tennessee, USA: 2017); Zinathi at Gallatin Galleries (New York University: 2016); and Somnyama Ngonyama at Standard Bank Gallery Albany Museum (National Arts Festival, Grahamstown: 2016). Muholi also exhibited as part of Documenta 13 (2017) and was included as part of the South African Pavilion at the 55th Venice Biennale (Venice, Italy: 2017); Art/Afrique, le nouvel atelier at Fondation Louis Vuitton (Paris: 2017); and Kyotographie International Photography Festival (Kyoto: 2017).


--- [Zanele Muholi | Biography, Artwork, Photography, Self ...] ---
Zanele Muholi - Who is Zanele Muholi? - What does it mean to be a visual activist? - What type of art does Zanele Muholi create? - How does Muholi's work support LGBTQ+ communities in South Africa? - What are some notable themes in Muholi's photography? - How has Zanele Muholi influenced both art and activism around the world? Zanele Muholi (born July 19, 1972, Umlazi, South Africa) identifies as a visual activist—rather than an artist—and is nonbinary, using they/them pronouns. Their work, primarily photography, seeks to make more visible the Black LGBTQIA+ community in South Africa, where discrimination has often repressed queer and trans stories. Muholi says of their work that “my mission is to re-write a Black queer and trans visual history of South Africa for the world to know of our resistance and existence at the height of hate crimes in South Africa and beyond.” Early life and career in South Africa Zanele Muholi, whose first name translates to ‘‘enough’’ or ‘‘last one’’ in Zulu, is the youngest of eight children of father Ashwell Tanji Banda, a tradesperson who died shortly after Muholi’s birth, and mother Bester Muholi, a domestic worker who cleaned the homes of white families. Born and raised in Umlazi, a township in what is now KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, Zanele Muholi came of age during apartheid, a policy implemented in 1948 that governed relations between South Africa’s white minority and nonwhite majority. It sanctioned racial segregation and political and economic discrimination against nonwhites. By the early 1990s the legislation that formed the foundation of apartheid had been repealed. In 1996 a new, progressive constitution went into effect, becoming the first to abolish discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Ten years later South Africa became the first African country to legalize same-sex marriage. However, the social and economic repercussions of apartheid have persisted well into the 21st century, and the LGBTQIA+ community continued to experience harassment and violence. A hate crime called corrective rape, in which the victim is targeted for rape on the basis of their perceived gender or sexual orientation, remained particularly pervasive in South Africa. Against this backdrop, Muholi began working for the South African website Behind the Mask, which featured stories about the local LGBTQIA+ community. By then, Muholi had relocated to Johannesburg and had spent most of their twenties working as a hairstylist and holding various corporate jobs. At Behind the Mask, they photographed women who recounted tales of rape, harassment, and abduction, stories rarely reported in the mass media. In response to what they learned, in 2002 Muholi cofounded the Forum for the Empowerment of Women (FEW), an organization dedicated to facilitating safety and advocacy for women. The following year Muholi enrolled in the Market Photo Workshop, a school, gallery, and art space in Johannesburg founded by South African photographer David Goldblatt in 1989. They later received an M.F.A. in documentary media from Ryerson University, Toronto, in 2009. That same year Muholi founded Inkanyiso, a nonprofit organization focused on queer visual activism and media advocacy. Only Half the Picture Soon after enrolling at the Market Photo Workshop, Muholi held their first solo show (2004), at the Johannesburg Art Gallery. The exhibition featured photographs from Muholi’s earliest series, Only Half the Picture (2003–06). Shot in black-and-white, the works document members of the Black LGBTQIA+ community in intimate moments that defy taboos. Participants’ faces are not shown, only isolated parts of the body, such as a hairy chest in a lace bra (Bra [2003]) or a thigh showing a long thick scar (Aftermath [2004]). The show was met with critical acclaim, and Muholi was soon showing internationally, including in Vienna, Amsterdam, Milan, and Lagos. Faces and Phases and other series Moving from the anonymity of Only Half the Picture, Muholi began photographing specific individuals in 2006. The ongoing series, Faces and Phases, documents each participant’s expression, attire, posture, and gestures. By the 2020s the collection comprised some 300 photographs, which were often exhibited in grids, showcasing the diversity of the LGBTQIA+ community in South Africa. Muholi continued their focus on the community with such series as Of Love & Loss (2014), which includes installations and videos interweaving scenes of the funerals of hate crime victims with the weddings of nonconforming couples, and Brave Beauties (2014– ), which focuses on transgender women. South African scholar Gabeba Baderoon noted in Visual Century: South African Art in Context Volume 4: 1990–2007 that Muholi’s “photographs have helped to reframe ways of seeing the Black body and have brought details of Black lesbian and gay life closer to the centre of South Africa’s political and artistic debates.” Somnyama Ngonyama In 2014 Muholi turned the lens on themselves for the ongoing series, Somnyama Ngonyama (Hail the Dark Lioness). Shot in black-and-white, the photographs capture Muholi looking directly at the camera in a variety of poses and guises, sometimes wearing thick necklaces, large headpieces, and intricate hair clips. In postproduction they deliberately toned down any highlights and saturated their skin color in order to exaggerate its darkness. From a distance, the portraits recall anthropological photographs of Africans, the likes of which once appeared on the covers of National Geographic. Upon closer inspection, however, the viewer discovers that Muholi’s adornments are not African jewelry but everyday items, such as chopsticks, a vacuum hose, and a cosmetics bag. Muholi’s subversion of the viewer’s expectation offers humor, but they often chose a specific object for its meaning beyond mere play. In such works as Bester I, Mayotte and Bester V, Mayotte (both 2015), for example, Muholi adorns themselves with clothespins in the former and scouring sponges in the latter; objects that suggest housework. The pieces honor the labor of their mother, who died from liver cancer in 2009. A few of the self-portraits are similarly personal, but, like those in Muholi’s other series, the photographs also consider the ways in which Black bodies in general are represented. Of the series, Muholi told The Guardian in 2017, “The black body itself is the material, the black body that is ever scrutinised, and violated and undermined.” - Born: - July 19, 1972, Umlazi, South Africa (age 53) Paintings, exhibitions, and collections In 2020, during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, which limited Muholi’s photography practice, they turned to painting. Their colorful self-portraits recall the compositions of Somnyama Ngonyama and continue Muholi’s investigation of the Black body, gender, and representation. That same year a major survey of their work was held at Tate Modern, London. Other exhibitions include “Zanele Muholi: Eye Me” (2024) at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; “Being Muholi: Portraits as Resistance” (2022) at the Gardner Museum, Boston; and “Zanele Muholi” (2021) at Gropius Bau, Berlin. Their photographs are in the collections of many world-renowned institutions including the Centre Pompidou, Paris; the Guggenheim Museum, New York; and the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa, Cape Town.


--- [Zanele Muholi | Biography | STEVENSON] ---
Muholi is a visual activist, humanitarian and photographer from Umlazi, Durban. They currently live and work between Durban and Cape Town. Muholi is invested in educational activism, community outreach and youth development. In 2009 they founded Inkanyiso (www.inkanyiso.org), a forum for queer and visual (activist) media and in 2002 co-founded the Forum for Empowerment of Women (FEW). They facilitate access to art spaces for youth practitioners through projects such as Ikhono LaseNatali and continue to provide photography workshops for young women and in the townships through PhotoXP. Muholi studied Advanced Photography at the Market Photo Workshop in Newtown, Johannesburg, and in 2009 completed an MFA: Documentary Media at Ryerson University, Toronto. In 2013, they became an Honorary Professor at the University of the Arts/Hochschule für Künste Bremen. Awards and accolades received include ICP Spotlights (2022); Spectrum International Prize for Photography (2020); Lucie Award for Humanitarian Photography (2019); the Rees Visionary Award by Amref Health Africa (2019); a fellowship from the Royal Photographic Society, UK (2018); France’s Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (2017); the Mbokodo Award in the category of Visual Arts (2017); ICP Infinity Award for Documentary and Photojournalism (2016); Africa'Sout! Courage and Creativity Award (2016); Outstanding International Alumni Award from Ryerson University (2016); Fine Prize for an emerging artist at the 2013 Carnegie International; Prince Claus Award (2013); Index on Censorship - Freedom of Expression art award (2013); and the Casa Africa award for best female photographer, and Fondation Blachère award at Les Rencontres de Bamako biennial of African photography (2009). A survey exhibition of Muholi’s work took place at the Tate Modern, London, UK (2020-21) and other solo presentations have taken place at institutions including the National Gallery of Iceland (2022); Kunstforeningen Gl Strand, Denmark (2022); Institut Valencià d'Art Modern, Spain (2022); Fotografihuset, Norway (2022); the Finnish Museum of Photography (2022); the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, Boston, USA (2022); Bildmuseet, Umeå, Sweden (2021); Gropius Bau, Berlin, Germany (2021); Sprengel Museum, Hannover, Germany (2021); Cummer Museum, Florida, USA (2021); Norval Foundation, Cape Town, South Africa (2020); Ethelbert Cooper Gallery of African and African American Art at Harvard University, USA (2020); Seattle Art Museum, USA (2019); Colby Museum, Maine, USA (2019); Spelman College Museum of Fine Art, Georgia, USA (2018); New Art Exchange, Nottingham, UK (2018); Museo de Arte Moderno de Buenos Aires, Argentina (2018); LUMA Westbau, Zurich, Switzerland (2018); Fotografiska, Stockholm, Sweden (2018); Durban Art Gallery: a survey exhibition conceptualised as a homecoming, Kwazulu Natal, South Africa (2017); Market Photo Workshop, Johannesburg, South Africa (2017); Glasgow School of Art, Scotland (2017); Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, the Netherlands (2017); Autograph ABP, London, UK (2017); Maitland Institute, Cape Town, South Africa (2017); North Carolina Museum of Art, USA (2016); Standard Bank Gallery, Makhanda, South Africa (2016); Gallatin Galleries, New York, USA (2016); Open Eye Gallery, Liverpool, UK (2015); Brooklyn Museum, New York, USA (2015); Akershus Kunstsenter, Norway (2015); Einsteinhaus, Ulm, Germany (2014); Schwules Museum, Berlin, Germany (2014); Williams College Museum of Art, Williamstown, USA (2014); and Casa Africa, Las Palmas, Spain (2011). The Faces and Phases series has been shown at the South African Pavilion at the 55th Venice Biennale (2013); dOCUMENTA 13 (2012), and the 29th São Paulo Biennial (2010). Muholi exhibited in May You Live in Interesting Times, the 58th Venice Biennale (2019); they produced a city-wide project titled Masihambisane - on Visual Activism for Performa 17, New York, USA (2017) and featured in the inaugural exhibitions at the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa, Cape Town, South Africa. Group shows include Looking Forward, Pier24, San Francisco, USA (2022); BLACK VENUS, Fotografiska, New York, USA (2022); Shifting Dialogues: Photography from The Walther Collection at Kunstsammlung Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany (2022); 31:Women, Daimler Art Collection, Berlin, Germany (2021); THIS IS NOT AFRICA – UNLEARN WHAT YOU HAVE LEARNED at ARoS Aarhus Kunstmuseum, Denmark and Red Clay, Tamale, Ghana (2021); NIRIN, the 22nd Sydney Biennale (2020); African Cosmologies: Photography, Time, and the Other, 18th FotoFest Biennial, Houston, Texas, USA (2020); The Way She Looks: A History of Female Gazes in African Portraiture at the Ryerson Image Center, Toronto, Canada (2019); Implicit Tensions: Mapplethorpe Now at the Guggenheim, New York, USA (2019); Mirrors – The Reflected Self at Museum Rietberg Switzerland (2019); Yithi Laba at the Market Photo Workshop, Johannesburg, South Africa (2019); Possibilities for a Non-Alienated Life, Kochi-Muziris Biennale, India (2018); Recent Histories, Huis Marseille and The Walther Collection, Amsterdam, the Netherlands (2018); Queering The Gaze at alphanova & galerie future, Berlin, Germany (2018); From Africa to the Americas: Face-to-face Picasso, Past and Present, at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, Canada (2018); In Their Own Form, Museum Of Contemporary Photography, Chicago, USA; the 11th Mercosul Biennial in Porto Alegre, Brazil (2018); Plastic Entanglements: Ecology, Aesthetics, Materials at Pennsylvania State University, USA (2018); African Art Against the State at Williams College Museum of Art, USA (2018); Multiple Medium: Photographs from the Collection at the Cincinnati Art Museum, Ohio, USA (2018); the National Gallery of Victoria Triennial, Melbourne, Australia (2017); Traversées Ren@rde, Transpalette Centre d'Art, France (2017); The Photographic I – Other Pictures, S.M.A.K Ghent, Belgium (2017); Structures of Identity, Museo Amparo, Mexico (2017); The Face: A Search for Clues, Deutsches Hygiene-Museum, Dresden, Germany (2017); Intimacy is Political: Sex, gender, language, power, Centro Cultural Metropoliano, Quito, Ecuador (2017); Art/Afrique, le nouvel atelier, Fondation Louis Vuitton, Paris, France (2017); Kyotographie International Photography Festival, Kyoto, Japan (2017); Personae, FotoFocus Biennial, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA (2016); Où poser la tête?, ICA Indian Ocean, Mauritius (2016); Second-Hand Reading: William Kentridge and Zanele Muholi , Mead Art Museum, Amherst, USA (2016); Supporting Alternative Visions, Prince Claus Fund Gallery, Amsterdam, the Netherlands (2016); Berlin Biennale, Germany (2016); Mina/Meg, Kulturhistorisk Museum, Oslo, Norway (2016); Systematically Open? New forms of production of the contemporary image, LUMA, Arles, France (2016); Reality of My Surroundings, Nasher Museum of Art, North Carolina, USA (2016); African Art Against the State, Williams College Museum of Art, Williamstown, USA (2016); After Eden/Après Eden - The Walther Collection, La Maison Rouge, Paris, France (2015); Making Africa: A Continent of Contemporary Design, Vitra Design Museum, Weil am Rhein, Germany, and Guggenheim Bilbao, Spain (2015); The Order of Things, The Walther Collection, Ulm, Germany (2014) and After Our Bodies Meet: From Resistance to Potentiality, Leslie-Lohman Museum of Gay and Lesbian Art, New York, USA (2014). Muholi won the 2019 'Best Photography Book Award' by the Kraszna-Krausz Foundation for Somnyama Ngonyama: Hail, The Dark Lioness (Aperture), and was shortlisted for the 2015 Deutsche Börse Photography Prize for the publication Faces and Phases 2006-14 (Steidl/The Walther Collection). Other publications include Zanele Muholi: African Women Photographers #1 (Casa Africa and La Fábrica, 2011); Faces and Phases (Prestel, 2010); and Only half the picture (Stevenson, 2006).


--- [Zanele Muholi's Faces & Phases - Aperture] ---
Zanele Muholi's Faces & Phases For more than a decade, South African photographer Zanele Muholi created a visual record of black lesbians in her home country. Although South Africa legalized same-sex marriage in 2006, discrimination and violence against queer women remain widespread. In 2006, Muholi began her Faces and Phases project, an ambitious series of bold, undeniably powerful portraits of lesbians made against plain or patterned backgrounds—now numbering around three hundred—and often exhibited in tightly arranged grids. Faces and Phases is the subject of an extensive book, published by Steidl last fall, that forms a monumental chapter in Muholi’s mission to remedy black queer invisibility. Muholi’s work has been exhibited globally and she will have her first large-scale museum exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum, Zanele Muholi: Isibonelo/Evidence, on May 1. Last November, Deborah Willis—author, curator, and prominent historian of photography—spoke via Skype with Muholi, who is based in Johannesburg, about photography and activism, her latest series Black Beauties, and her influences. This interview appeared in Issue 5 of the Aperture Photography App:click here to read more and download the app. Deborah Willis: Let’s begin with Faces and Phases. When and where did this project begin? Zanele Muholi: It started in 2006 and I dedicated it to a good friend of mine who died from HIV complications in 2007, at the age of twenty-five. I just realized that as black South Africans, especially lesbians, we don’t have much visual history that speaks to pressing issues, both current and also in the past. South Africa has the best constitution on the African continent and, dare I say, world—when it comes to recognizing LGBTI (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex) persons and other sexual minorities. It is the only country on the continent that legalized same-sex marriage in 2006. I thought to myself that if you have remarkable women in America and around the globe, you equally have remarkable lesbian women in South Africa. We should be counted and certainly counted on to write our own history and validate our existence. We should not feel that somebody owes us these liberties. So, it’s another way in which I personally claim my full citizenship as a South African photographer, as a South African female in this space, as a South African who identifies as black, and also as a lesbian. I’m basically saying we deserve recognition, respect, validation, and to have publications that mark and trace our existence. DW: That’s a beautiful introduction to the project, which offers a wonderful way of reading bodies and faces and new identities. When’s the first time you remember seeing a photograph, or knowing a photograph, of a black lesbian in South Africa? ZM: The early images I remember are black-and-white images of apartheid-era South Africa. Most were captured by male photographers like Ernest Cole or Alf Kumalo. Early images I saw depicted black women crying, images of pain, of struggle. Before black lesbian imagery clouded my mind, the first images I remember are of domestic workers, which were captured mainly by men. I looked at the work of David Goldblatt, who I regard as one of the forefathers of photography in South Africa, and the work of Jürgen Schadeberg. Those are some of the male photographers who captured apartheid South Africa. I was born at the height of apartheid. I learned about South African women photographers very, very late. A friend gave me a book called Viewfinders: Black Women Photographers (1993), which was produced in America. I liked that book very much. DW: Viewfinders was written by the photographer Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe. ZM: Yes, her book changed my life in so many ways. I just thought to myself that photography has to become a lifetime thing in which I deal with my own issues, my own personal issues. I quoted Joan E. Biren (JEB), an American photographer, in my thesis. Her work related to what I wanted to achieve, and it still means so much to me in ways that you won’t believe. You look at Biren’s images and you think that someone has done what I’m trying to capture now, except I’m doing it from a South African point of view. I understood the South African struggle of being forcefully removed from your own space, a space you thought belonged to you, where women were regarded as working machines. My mom was a domestic worker and the images of domestic workers, and the images of women crying, struggling, with children on their backs, those became my daily consumption. DW: Did you start off by photographing your mother, early on? ZM: I photographed my mom very, very late, around the time she started getting ill. It’s often very difficult for us to confront our own issues. I mention in my film Difficult Love (2010) that it’s a pity we don’t tend to look at ourselves and our immediate spaces and how the outside world becomes familiar and easier for us to deal with than our own personal issues. She had cancer of the liver, and she passed on in 2009. But I do have images that I took of her. DW: How did she feel about the photographs? ZM: She was always quite supportive of what I was trying to achieve, and I was out to my mom. I delayed the whole process of photographing her and missed her as a beautiful young woman. Looking at our family album, of images that were either dated, without the photographer’s name, or that had some strange names at the back, you think, Who has taken those images? What was their intention? Why are they not captured in this and that way? The photograph that I eventually took later was of her wearing a church uniform. She was sick but allowed me to take that particular photograph. But I regret very much not having photographed her in her coffin. She looked so beautiful. But that meant negotiating with my family members, who didn’t understand the importance of documentation, so I let go of that photograph. In my imagination, I have this beautiful woman who did not look sick in her coffin. DW: Your photography has been described as work that “mourns and celebrates.” What do you think about such labeling? ZM: It depends on the context. I’m reclaiming photography as a black female being. I’m calling myself a visual activist, whether I am included in a show or not, whether I am published or not. That’s my stance as a person, before anything else, before my sexuality and gender, because photography doesn’t have a gender. Ernest Cole, for instance, captured the men in the mines. The mineworkers were humiliated to nothing, captured naked, discounted to nothing, nameless. He showed an unjust system that dehumanized workers. All we see, all we remember, are those black men and their bodies facing the wall. That was visual activism, but at that time people did not regard it as anything of that sort, even if people at that time were killed and forcibly removed. Today, lesbians in South Africa are brutally murdered. “Curative rape” is used on us. That forces me to redefine what visual activism is. If I were to reduce myself to the label “visual artist,” it would mean that what I’m doing is just for play, that our identities, as black female beings who are queer or are lesbian, is just art. Art needs to be political—or let me say that my art is political. It’s not for show. It’s not for play.
