=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kokosing River - Wikipedia]
The Kokosing River (ko-KO-sing) is a tributary of the Walhonding River, 57.2 miles (92.1 km) long, in east-central Ohio in the United States. Via the Walhonding, Muskingum and Ohio Rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River, draining an area of 482 square miles (1248 km 2). [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kokosing_River

[Kokosing River Facts for Kids]
The Kokosing River (say ko-KO-sing) is a river in east-central Ohio, in the United States. It is about 57 miles (92 kilometers) long. The Kokosing River is a tributary, which means it's a smaller river that flows into a larger one. It flows into the Walhonding River. The word "Kokosing" means "River of Little Owls." This name comes from the language of the Native American tribes who lived in ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Kokosing_River

[North Branch Kokosing River Lake - Public Land Journal]
The Kokosing River is a tributary of the Walhonding River in east-central Ohio and many Ohioans are completely unaware of the lake's existence. The Muskingum Watershed Conservancy District offers a beautiful little getaway in this park.
URL: https://publiclandjournal.com/oh/kokosing-river-lake-oh

[Kokosing River Map - Stream - Knox, Ohio, USA - Mapcarta]
The Kokosing River is a tributary of the Walhonding River, 57.2 miles long, in east-central Ohio in the United States. Via the Walhonding, Muskingum and Ohio Rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River, draining an area of 482 square miles.
URL: https://mapcarta.com/22665538

[Kokosing River Explained]
The Kokosing River (ko-KO-sing) is a tributary of the Walhonding River, 57.2 miles (92.1 km) long, in east-central Ohio in the United States. Via the Walhonding, Muskingum and Ohio Rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River, draining an area of 482 square miles (1248 km 2). [3]
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Kokosing_River/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kokosing River - Wikipedia] ---
The Kokosing River (ko-KO-sing) is a tributary of the Walhonding River, 57.2 miles (92.1 km) long, in east-central Ohio in the United States. Via the Walhonding, Muskingum and Ohio Rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River, draining an area of 482 square miles (1248 km2).
Etymologically, "Kokosing" translates roughly to "River of Little Owls" in Lenape language. 
The Kokosing River rises in Morrow County, northeast of Mount Gilead, and initially flows southwardly. It turns eastwardly near Chesterville and flows through Knox and Coshocton Counties, passing the communities of Mount Vernon, Gambier and Howard. In western Coshocton County the Kokosing joins the Mohican River to form the Walhonding River, about 2 miles (3 km) northwest of Nellie.
Upstream of Mount Vernon, the Kokosing collects its largest tributary, the North Branch Kokosing River, which rises in Morrow County and flows southeastwardly through Knox County, past Fredericktown.
Between Mount Vernon and Howard, the river is roughly paralleled by a rail trail, the Kokosing Gap Trail which continues to the town of Danville.


--- [Kokosing River Facts for Kids] ---
Kokosing River facts for kids Quick facts for kids Kokosing River | | |---|---| | The Kokosing River in Mount Vernon | | | Country | United States | | Physical characteristics | | | Main source | Morrow County, Ohio | | River mouth | Walhonding River, western Coshocton County, Ohio | | Length | 57.2 mi (92.1 km) | | Discharge (location 2) | | | Basin features | | | Basin size | 482 sq mi (1,250 km2) | The Kokosing River (say ko-KO-sing) is a river in east-central Ohio, in the United States. It is about 57 miles (92 kilometers) long. The Kokosing River is a tributary, which means it's a smaller river that flows into a larger one. It flows into the Walhonding River. The word "Kokosing" means "River of Little Owls." This name comes from the language of the Native American tribes who lived in the area long ago. The river is part of a huge watershed that eventually leads to the Mississippi River. A watershed is an area of land where all the water drains into a specific river or lake. The Kokosing River's watershed covers about 482 square miles (1248 square kilometers). Contents Journey of the Kokosing River The Kokosing River starts in Morrow County, Ohio. This is northeast of a town called Mount Gilead, Ohio. At first, the river flows south. Then, near Chesterville, Ohio, it turns and flows east. The river travels through three different counties: Knox County, Ohio, Coshocton County, Ohio, and Morrow County. It passes by several towns, including Mount Vernon, Ohio, Gambier, Ohio, and Howard, Ohio. Where the River Ends In the western part of Coshocton County, the Kokosing River meets another river called the Mohican River. When these two rivers join, they form the Walhonding River. This meeting point is about 2 miles (3 kilometers) northwest of a small town called Nellie, Ohio. North Branch Kokosing River The Kokosing River has a main branch and a smaller one. The biggest smaller river that flows into the Kokosing is called the North Branch Kokosing River. This branch also starts in Morrow County. It flows southeast through Knox County and past the town of Fredericktown, Ohio. It joins the main Kokosing River upstream (further up the river) from Mount Vernon. The Kokosing Gap Trail Between the towns of Mount Vernon and Howard, there's a special path that runs right next to the Kokosing River. This path is called the Kokosing Gap Trail. It's a "rail trail," which means it used to be a railroad track but has been turned into a path for people to walk, run, or bike on. The trail continues all the way to the town of Danville, Ohio. It's a great way to see the river and enjoy nature!


--- [North Branch Kokosing River Lake - Public Land Journal] ---
North Branch Kokosing River Lake, Warsaw, OH The North Branch Kokosing River Lake is a great place to take a nap if the fish aren’t biting. The lake covers 149 acres in Knox County and is a great little fishing destination if you don’t mind relaxing more than you’re fishing. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers finished construction of the small dam in 1972 for flood control measures. The dam is built of packed earth with rip-rap rock covering and houses an unregulated outlet structure. Little regulation of the water flow is needed since the dam handles only a 44.5 square mile drainage area. Normally there is as much water flowing into the lake as flows out and few people take notice. The Kokosing River is a tributary of the Walhonding River in east-central Ohio and many Ohioans are completely unaware of the lake’s existence. The Muskingum Watershed Conservancy District offers a beautiful little getaway in this park. A small lake-front campground with electric sites is the perfect place to set up a trailer or a tent and enjoy an evening campfire. There’s not a lot of activity here which is exactly the way the regular campers like it. A 10-horsepower boat motor restriction is in place to preserve the pristine nature of the lake. Small fishing boats, kayaks, canoes, and inflatable boats are all welcome. The horsepower restriction means that electric motors are acceptable along with small 9.9 horsepower or less outboard motors. The fishing is a quiet past-time here, not the main attraction. The lake is easy for anglers to effectively cover due to its small size and the fact that the north end is silted in and extremely shallow. The main lake only averages between six and seven feet deep so shallow-running baits and hook-and-bobber combinations are more than adequate. Kokosing is a bass and panfish lake. The recent Ohio Division of Wildlife electrofishing survey found a decent largemouth bass population, in part due to the forage base of bluegills and in part due to the stumps that dot the lake bottom. Thirty-four percent of the sampled bass were at least 12 inches in length and whoppers over the 18-inch mark were found. The old creek channel points and drop-offs are where the bucketmouths gather during warm weather and the shorelines are good in the spring and fall. Channel catfish are fun to catch and delicious eating. Drift fish across the lake’s surface or target the old creek bed during the daytime hours. A gob of earthworms, stink baits, shrimp, and other smelly offerings can land fish in the frying pan. Crappies are a draw for local anglers that like to hook a minnow under a tiny bobber. The average-sized slab sampled during the ODOW fisheries survey was between eight and nine inches in length. Big crappies up to 14 inches were found. Hit the crappies in the woody cover. Hunting season finds the 959 acres of diverse wildlife habitat busy with area hunters. Diversity of habitat is the key to hunting success and the Kokosing Lake property has it. Agricultural areas are managed through field sizes and crop rotations to provide food and shelter for a variety of wildlife. Ducks and geese utilize the water and the crop fields in the fall. Whitetail deer, rabbits, squirrels, quail, and pheasants are successfully hunted in the agricultural fields and throughout the open fields and wooded sections. Trappers take advantage of the Kokosing River’s opossums, raccoons, mink, weasels, muskrats, fox, and skunks. Anglers and small watercraft operators use the two-lane boat launch near the picnic area. There is a pit toilet here and a lighted parking lot. The campground has 42 electric sites that cater to tents and RVs. Campers will be happy to discover that a new restroom and bath house have been constructed. The facility is handicapped accessible and provides diaper changing stations in both the men’s and women’s areas. The dump station is also up and running. Bicycling is permitted in the campground areas and on the roadways. Hikers are limited to the dam area or the wildlife section that is open to hunting. Kokosing Lake is located north of Mount Vernon and west of Fredericktown. Visitors traveling from Fredericktown reach the dam via State Route 13 north to Waterford Road. The dam is about two miles from the junction of Route 13 and Waterford Road. The campground and picnic areas are about a half mile further up Waterford Road. For fishing information contact the ODOW’s District One in Columbus at (614)466-3337. The MWCD can be reached at (419)368-6885 for information on camping or visit the website at www.mwcdlakes.com. Other local Corp of Engineer lakes: Alum Creek Delaware Dillon Pleasant Hill or visit the Ohio Lakes page to see even more great lakes to visit. - Land Unit: - State: - State Tag:


--- [Kokosing River Map - Stream - Knox, Ohio, USA - Mapcarta] ---
No content


--- [Kokosing River Explained] ---
No content
