=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Winifred Betts - Wikipedia]
Mary Winifred Aitken (née Betts; 11 May 1894 – 29 April 1971) was a New Zealand botanist. She was the first female lecturer at the University of Otago. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winifred_Betts

[Alec Aitken (1895 - 1967) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics]
His mathematical genius bubbled under the surface and, encouraged by R J T Bell the new professor of mathematics at Otago University, Aitken came to Scotland in 1923 and studied for a Ph.D. at Edinburgh under Whittaker. Aitken's wife, Mary, had continued to lecture at Otago up to the time they left for Edinburgh.
URL: https://mathshistory.st-andrews.ac.uk/Biographies/Aitken/

[Winifred Betts - botany pioneer - The Hocken Blog - University of Otago]
Winnie Aitken’s career as botany lecturer came to an end in December 1923. Her husband had been awarded a scholarship for postgraduate study and they moved to Edinburgh, where he had a long and distinguished academic career as a mathematician. Alexander died in 1967 and Winnie in 1971; they had two children. Various women have since taught botany at the University of Otago; indeed, it has ...
URL: https://blogs.otago.ac.nz/thehockenblog/winifred-betts-botany-pioneer/

[Winifred Betts - royalsociety.org.nz]
The University of Otago’s first botany lecturer, Winifred Betts, was educated at Nelson College for Girls before receiving a University National Scholarship in 1911. Her professor at Otago, William Benham, selected her as a demonstrator in biology even before she graduated with a BSc in 1916. After completing an MSc in 1917 she won that year’s National Research Scholarship for Otago, and ...
URL: https://www.royalsociety.org.nz/150th-anniversary/150-women-in-150-words/1918-1967/winifred-betts

[Alexander Craig Aitken. 1895-1967]
by JM Whittaker · 1968 · Cited by 13 — In 1920 Aitken had married Mary Winifred Betts, also a graduate of. Otago. She gained the degree of M.Sc. in botany in 1915 and was a lecturer in botany from ...
URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/769436


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Winifred Betts - Wikipedia] ---
Mary Winifred Aitken (née Betts; 11 May 1894 – 29 April 1971) was a New Zealand botanist. She was the first female lecturer at the University of Otago.


--- [Alec Aitken (1895 - 1967) - Biography - MacTutor History of Mathematics] ---
Alexander Craig Aitken Quick Info Dunedin, New Zealand Edinburgh, Scotland Biography Alec Aitken's family on his father's side were from Scotland, and on his mother's side were from England. Alec's mother, Elizabeth Towers, emigrated with her family to New Zealand from Wolverhampton, England, when she was eight years old. Alexander Aitken, Alec's grandfather on his father's side, had emigrated from Lanarkshire in Scotland to Otago in New Zealand in 1868, and began farming near Dunedin. Alec's father, William Aitken, was one of his fourteen children and William began his working life on his father's farm. However he gave this up and became a grocer in Dunedin. William and Elizabeth had seven children, Alec being the eldest.He attended the Otago Boys' High School in Dunedin, where he was head boy in 1912, winning a scholarship to Otago University which he entered in 1913. Surprisingly, although he had amazed his school friends and teachers with his incredible memory, he had shown no special mathematical abilities at school. He began to study languages and mathematics at university with the intention of becoming a school teacher but his university career was interrupted by World War I. In 1915 he enlisted in the New Zealand Expeditionary Force and served in Gallipoli, Egypt, and France, being wounded at the battle of the Somme. His war experiences were to haunt him for the rest of his life. After three months in hospital in Chelsea, London, he was sent back to New Zealand in 1917. The following year he returned to his university studies, graduating in 1920 with First Class Honours in French and Latin but only Second Class Honours in mathematics in which he had no proper instruction. In the year he graduated, Aitken married Mary Winifred Betts who was a botany lecturer at Otago University. They had two children, a girl and a boy. Aitken followed his original intention and became a school teacher at his old school Otago Boys' High School. His mathematical genius bubbled under the surface and, encouraged by R J T Bell the new professor of mathematics at Otago University, Aitken came to Scotland in 1923 and studied for a Ph.D. at Edinburgh under Whittaker. Aitken's wife, Mary, had continued to lecture at Otago up to the time they left for Edinburgh. His doctoral studies progressed extremely well as he studied an actuarially motivated problem of fitting a curve to data which was subject to statistical error. Rather remarkably, his Ph.D. thesis was considered so outstanding that he was awarded a D.Sc. for it in 1926. Even before the award of the degree, Aitken was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1925. He was appointed to Edinburgh University in 1925 where he spent the rest of his life. After holding lecturing posts in actuarial mathematics, then in statistics, then mathematical economics, he became a Reader in statistics in 1936, the year he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society. Ten years later he was appointed to Whittaker's chair. Aitken had an incredible memory (he knew π to 2000 places) and could instantly multiply, divide and take roots of large numbers. He describes his own mental processes in the article [4]. Although some may suggest this has little to do with mathematical ability, Aitken himself wrote:- Familiarity with numbers acquired by innate faculty sharpened by assiduous practice does give insight into the profounder theorems of algebra and analysis.Aitken's mathematical work was in statistics, numerical analysis, and algebra. In numerical analysis he introduced the idea of accelerating the convergence of a numerical method. He also introduced a method of progressive linear interpolation. In algebra he made contributions to the theory of determinants. He also saw clearly how invariant theory fitted into the theory of groups but wrote that he had never followed through his ideas because of:- ... various circumstances of anxiety, or duty, or bad health ... I have observed my talented younger contemporary Dudley Littlewood's assault and capture most of this terrain.Aitken wrote several books, one of the most famous being The theory of canonical matrices (1932) which was written jointly with Turnbull. With Rutherford he was editor of a series of the University Mathematical Texts and he himself wrote for the series Determinants and matrices (1939) and Statistical Mathematics (1939). In 1962 he published an article very dear to his heart, namely The case against decimalisation. In [3], describing his period of recovery from a small operation in 1934 Aitken writes:- The nights were bad, in the daytime colleagues and other friends visited me, and I tried to think about abstract things, such as the theory of probability and the theory of groups - and I did begin to see more deeply into these rather abstruse disciplines. Indeed I date a change in my interests and an increase in competence, from these weeks of enforced physical inactivity.Also in [3] Aitken describes the reaction of other mathematicians to his work:- ... the papers on numerical analysis, statistical mathematics and the theory of the symmetric group continued to write themselves in steady succession, with other small notes on odds and ends. Those that I valued most, the algebraic ones, seemed to attract hardly any notice, others, which I regarded as mere application of the highly compressed and powerful notation and algebra of matrices to standard problems in statistics or computation found great publicity in America...Colin M Campbell, now a colleague of the authors of this archive at the University of St Andrews, was a student in Edinburgh in the early 1960's. He writes:- Professor Aitken's first year mathematics lectures were rather unusual. The fifty minutes were composed of forty minutes of clear mathematics, five minutes of jokes and stories and five minutes of 'tricks'. For the latter Professor Aitken would ask for members of the class to give him numbers for which he would then write down the reciprocal, the square root, the cube root or other appropriate expression. From the five minutes of 'stories' one also recalls as part of his lectures on probability a rather stern warning about the evils and foolishness of gambling!In fact Aitken's memory proved a major problem for him throughout his life. For most people memories fade in time which is particularly fortunate for the unpleasant things which happen. However for Aitken memories did not fade and, for example, his horrific memories of the battle of the Somme lived with him as real as the day he lived them. He wrote of them in [2] near the end of his life. These memories must have contributed, or perhaps were the entire cause, of the recurrent ill health he suffered. Collar writes [1]:- These black periods must have been harrowing in the extreme, but were borne with great fortitude and courage.The illness eventually led to his death. The book [2], which he wrote to try to put the memories of the Somme behind him, may not have had the desired effect but the book led to Aitken being elected to the Royal Society of Literature in 1964. Finally we should mention Aitken's love of music. He played the violin and composed music to a very high standard and a professional musician said:- Aitken is the most accomplished amateur musician I have ever known. References (show) - Obituary in The Times See THIS LINK - A C Aitken, Gallipoli to the Somme: Recollections of a New Zealand infantryman (Oxford, 1963). - P C Fenton, To catch the spirit: The memoir of A C Aitken (Otago, 1995). - A C Aitken, The art of mental calculation: with demonstrations, Trans. Royal Society for Engineers, London 44 (1954), 295-309. - Obituary, A C Aitken, DSc, FRS, Proc. Edinburgh Math. Soc. 16 (1968), 151-176. - Obituary, Yearbook of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Session 1967-68 (1969), 5-8. - J M Whittaker and M S Bartlett, Alexander Craig Aitken, Biographical Memoirs of Fellows of the Royal Society of London 14 (1968), 1-14. Additional Resources (show) Other pages about Alec Aitken: - Papers in the Proceedings and Notes of the EMS - Walter Ledermann's memoir - A C Aitken the poet - Edinburgh's tribute to A C Aitken - Turnbull and Aitken: Canonical Matrices - Aitken: "Statistical Mathematics" - EMS Arithomometer - Edinburgh Mathematical Society: Death of A C Aitken - Times obituary - An entry in The Mathematical Gazetteer of the British Isles, Other websites about Alec Aitken: Honours (show) Cross-references (show) - History Topics: Ledermann's St Andrews interview - History Topics: Matrices and determinants - History Topics: Memory, mental arithmetic and mathematics - History Topics: The Edinburgh Mathematical Society 1883-1933 - Societies: Edinburgh Royal Society - Societies: New Zealand Mathematical Society - Societies: South African Mathematical Society - Other: Colloquium photo 1930 - Other: Colloquium photo 1938 - Other: Colloquium photo 1951 - Other: Colloquium photo 1955 - Other: Colloquium photo 1959 - Other: EMS Honorary Members - Other: EMS Members - Other: EMS Presidents - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (E) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (I) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (K) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (P) - Other: Earliest Known Uses of Some of the Words of Mathematics (T) - Other: Earliest Uses of Symbols for Matrices and Vectors - Other: Earliest Uses of Symbols in Probability and Statistics - Other: Edinburgh Mathematical Society Lecturers 1883-2024 - Other: Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh - Other: Royal Society obituaries - Other: Royal Society obituaries (chron) Written by J J O'Connor and E F Robertson Last Update October 2003 Last Update October 2003


--- [Winifred Betts - botany pioneer - The Hocken Blog - University of Otago] ---
Post prepared by Dr Ali Clarke, Library Assistant (Reference) This year the University of Otago Department of Botany is celebrating its 90th anniversary. In honour of the occasion, I’ve been looking back at the beginnings of botany, as revealed in the university’s archives here at the Hocken. Although the “department” is generally dated from 1924, when John Holloway began as lecturer, botany was taught as early as the 1870s. In the university’s early decades, when student numbers were small, there were very few teaching staff and they had a wide brief. The first professor of “natural science” – F.W. Hutton – taught geology as well as biology. The 1877 University Calendar offered a general introductory course called “Principles of Biology,” as well as papers in zoology and botany. This pattern was to continue for several decades. The 1877 botany course covered “the structure, functions, and distributions of the orders of cryptograms, and the principal orders of phanerogams,” as well as “the use of the microscope.” Geology and biology were separated into two positions after Hutton left in 1880. Thomas Parker held the chair in biology from 1880 to 1897 and William Benham from 1898 to 1937. Both were brilliant scientists, but their chief research interests were in zoology rather than botany. As the university grew, the workload of teaching all aspects of biology to science, medical, dental and home science students became increasingly burdensome. Professor Benham managed to get an assistant – Winifred Farnie – to help with biology teaching from 1916 to 1918. In 1918 he suggested that it was time for the university to appoint a lecturer in botany, but the Council decided to delay for a year. The 1919 calendar notes that instruction in botany “is not provided at present” – presumably Benham had decided he was over-stretched and could no longer offer the course. He repeated his request for a botany lecturer to the council that year, and this time approval was granted. Benham already had somebody in mind for the post – his former student Winifred Betts. Rather than simply appointing Betts, the council decided to advertise the post of botany lecturer. Were they, perhaps, reluctant to appoint a woman? As it turned out, they received three applications, all from women, and selected Betts as Otago’s first botany lecturer. For Benham, this was a long overdue development. In 1919, writing in honour of the university’s jubilee, he commented: “It is a curious fact that in each of the four colleges in New Zealand it has been expected that one man shall undertake to teach efficiently those two subjects [zoology and botany], which in England, even in fourth-rate educational institutions, have for many years been entrusted to two distinct individuals.” He was happy to report that Otago had now “set the example to the other University Colleges by appointing a lecturer in botany”. Winnie Betts was just 25 years old when she commenced her new position at the beginning of 1920. Born in Moteuka, she was educated at Nelson College for Girls, receiving a University National Scholarship in 1911. She then came to Otago, graduating BSc in 1916 and MSc in 1917. She was clearly one of the more capable students of her era, and by 1915 Benham had selected her as a demonstrator in biology. On completing her MSc she received a National Research Scholarship – one was awarded at each university each year. This provided her with an income of £100 a year along with lab expenses so she could carry out independent research. In 1919, at a lecture to an admittedly partisan audience in Nelson, distinguished botanist Leonard Cockayne described Betts as “the most brilliant woman scientist in New Zealand.” In December 1920 Winnie Betts married another brilliant Otago graduate, the mathematician Alexander Aitken. Aitken, whose studies were interrupted by war service (he was badly wounded at the Somme), was by then teaching at Otago Boys’ High School. This was an era when most women left paid employment when they married, so it is intriguing that Winnie Aitken continued working as botany lecturer for some years. She joined a handful of women on Otago’s academic staff. As well as the women of the School of Home Science, there were Isabel Turnbull in Latin, Gladys Cameron in Bacteriology and Public Health and Bertha Clement in English; others came and went during Winnie’s years at Otago. Winnie Aitken’s career as botany lecturer came to an end in December 1923. Her husband had been awarded a scholarship for postgraduate study and they moved to Edinburgh, where he had a long and distinguished academic career as a mathematician. Alexander died in 1967 and Winnie in 1971; they had two children. Various women have since taught botany at the University of Otago; indeed, it has been one of the more gender-balanced of the academic departments. As the department celebrates its 90th anniversary with Prof Kath Dickinson at its head, it seems an appropriate moment to remember the woman who pioneered it all!


--- [Winifred Betts - royalsociety.org.nz] ---
Winifred Betts Botany lecturer (1894-1971) The University of Otago’s first botany lecturer, Winifred Betts, was educated at Nelson College for Girls before receiving a University National Scholarship in 1911. Her professor at Otago, William Benham, selected her as a demonstrator in biology even before she graduated with a BSc in 1916. After completing an MSc in 1917 she won that year’s National Research Scholarship for Otago, and was then able to conduct research. Altogether Betts published four papers in the Royal Society Te Aparangi’s Transactions.1 In 1919, botanist Leonard Cockayne described her as “the most brilliant woman scientist in New Zealand."2 When the University of Otago decided to employ a botany lecturer, Professor Benham already had Betts in mind for the job but the council decided to advertise the position. They received three applications – all from women – and Betts got the job. She married later the same year, but continued in the department until 1923 when she moved to Scotland with her husband, mathematician Alexander Aitken. References: 1. ‘NZBotSoc No 41 Sept 1995 - NZBotSoc-1995-41.Pdf’, accessed 8 August 2017, http://www.nzbotanicalsociety.org.nz/newsletter/NZBotSoc-1995-41.pdf. 2. ‘Winifred Betts – Botany Pioneer – The Hocken Blog, University of Otago, New Zealand’, accessed 26 August 2017, https://blogs.otago.ac.nz/thehockenblog/2014/09/08/winifred-betts-botany-pioneer/. This profile is part of the series 150 Women in 150 Words that celebrates women’s contributions to expanding knowledge in New Zealand, running as part of our 150th Anniversary.


--- [Alexander Craig Aitken. 1895-1967] ---
26 captures 12 Sep 2020 - 13 Nov 2024 Oct NOV Dec 13 2023 2024 2025 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20241113000115/https://www.jstor.org/stable/769436
