=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide]
Oct 31, 2013 · The former MLA exploited her physically while his wife and sitting MLA from Bijawar used to beat her and kept her without salary, the prosecution said. They also did not allow her to meet anyone.
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhopal/BJP-MLA-husband-get-ten-year-RI-for-abetting-maids-suicide/articleshow/25005184.cms

[BJP MLA Asharani and husband Bhaiyya Raja convicted for abetting their ...]
Oct 31, 2013 · A local court on Thursday convicted BJP MLA Asharani and her husband former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiyya Raja, and four others for kidnapping a woman and abetting her suicide. They have been handed a ten-year sentence. Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rehman found Bhaiyya Raja and the sitting MLA from Bijawar guilty of exploiting their maid Tijji Bai and abetting her ...
URL: https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/asharani-bjp-mla-bhaiyya-raja-chhatarpur-216131-2013-10-30

[BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide | Bhopal News]
Oct 31, 2013 — The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources ...
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bhopal/bjp-mla-husband-get-ten-year-ri-for-abetting-maids-suicide/articleshow/25005184.cms

[MLA, husband get 10-year jail for abetting maid's suicide]
Oct 31, 2013 — BJP legislator Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were sentenced to ten years' rigorous ...
URL: https://www.deccanherald.com/india/mla-husband-get-10-year-2292022

[BJP MLA BOOKED FOR ABETMENT TO SUICIDE – Radiance Weekly]
Jul 21, 2022 · Asha Rani, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA in Madhya Pradesh, has been booked for abetting to suicide of her domestic help Tijji Bai in 2007, while a case has also been registered against her husband Ashok Vir Vikram Singh for abduction and rape of the maid, police said on January 17. “The FIR was registered in connection with the suicide of their domestic help. The victim, had sustained ...
URL: https://radianceweekly.net/bjp-mla-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide] ---
BHOPAL: BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were today sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help's suicide. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said. The former MLA exploited her physically while his wife and sitting MLA from Bijawar used to beat her and kept her without salary, the prosecution said. They also did not allow her to meet anyone. Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rahman also imposed a fine of Rs 51,000 each on the couple. The sentence was awarded under relevant sections of the IPC. Besides, the court also awarded ten-year sentence to Kanhaiyalal 75, Narmada Pathak 35, Nijaji Dhimar 50 and Gopal Thakur 63 and also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them for helping the duo in committing the crime.


--- [BJP MLA Asharani and husband Bhaiyya Raja convicted for abetting their ...] ---
BJP MLA Asharani and husband Bhaiyya Raja convicted for abetting their maid's suicide Tijji Bai set herself on fire at the residence of Bhaiyya Raja located at Kolar Road in Bhopal, district prosecution office Rajesh Raikwar told India Today. A local court on Thursday convicted BJP MLA Asharani and her husband former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiyya Raja, and four others for kidnapping a woman and abetting her suicide. They have been handed a ten-year sentence. Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rehman found Bhaiyya Raja and the sitting MLA from Bijawar guilty of exploiting their maid Tijji Bai and abetting her suicide on May 21, 2007. Tijji Bai set herself on fire at the residence of Bhaiyya Raja located at Kolar Road in Bhopal, district prosecution office Rajesh Raikwar told India Today. According to the charges, Bhaiyya Raja exploited Tijji Bai, while the MLA used to thrash her and denied her salary. The couple didn't allow Tijji Bai to meet anyone and kept her confined to their house. Tijji Bai was kidnapped from Chhatarpur and brought to Bhaiyya Raja's place in the state capital, Raikwar said. The Judge also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 each on Bhaiyya Raja and Asharani. Besides, the court handed down 10 years imprisonment to Kanhaiyalal, 75, Gopal Thakur, 63, Nijaji Dhimar, 50, and Narmada Pathak, 35, for helping the couple in committing the crime. Furthermore, the court slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them, Raikwar said.


--- [BJP MLA, husband get ten-year RI for abetting maid's suicide | Bhopal News] ---
BHOPAL: BJP MLA Asharani and her husband and former MLA Ashok Veer Vikram Singh, alias Bhaiya Raja, along with four others were today sentenced to ten years rigorous imprisonment by a local court for abetting their domestic help's suicide. The maid Tijjibai committed suicide by setting herself afire on May 21, 2007, at Bhaiya Raja's Kolar Road residence here, prosecution sources said. The former MLA exploited her physically while his wife and sitting MLA from Bijawar used to beat her and kept her without salary, the prosecution said. They also did not allow her to meet anyone. Additional Sessions Judge Sayeeda Bano Rahman also imposed a fine of Rs 51,000 each on the couple. The sentence was awarded under relevant sections of the IPC. Besides, the court also awarded ten-year sentence to Kanhaiyalal 75, Narmada Pathak 35, Nijaji Dhimar 50 and Gopal Thakur 63 and also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 each on them for helping the duo in committing the crime.


--- [MLA, husband get 10-year jail for abetting maid's suicide] ---
No content


--- [BJP MLA BOOKED FOR ABETMENT TO SUICIDE – Radiance Weekly] ---
Asha Rani, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA in Madhya Pradesh, has been booked for abetting to suicide of her domestic help Tijji Bai in 2007, while a case has also been registered against her husband Ashok Vir Vikram Singh for abduction and rape of the maid, police said on January 17. “The FIR was registered in connection with the suicide of their domestic help. The victim, had sustained serious burn injuries, and was found dead at the Bhopal residence of the leader in November 2007,” a senior police officer told the reporters. Vikram Singh alias Bhaiya Raja, a former legislator who is already in judicial custody for allegedly killing his kin Vasundhara Bundela, is accused of abducting the maidservant, keeping her as a bonded labourer and sexually abusing her. BJP MLA BOOKED FOR ABETMENT TO SUICIDE BJP MLA BOOKED FOR ABETMENT TO SUICIDE
