=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Rope Dance — Janine Antoni]
Anna Halprin created a performance with Janine Antoni and Stephen Petronio at her Mountain Home Studio in Kentfield, California in September 2014. Ropes formed the connective material between the artists' bodies in motion.
URL: http://www.janineantoni.net/rope-dance

[Janine Antoni gets wrapped up in her work at Philadelphia's Fabric ...]
Apr 27, 2016 — These include the three remaining dates when Petronio and Antoni perform Rope Dance, a partially choreographed and improvised dance ...
URL: https://www.theartnewspaper.com/2016/04/27/janine-antoni-gets-wrapped-up-in-her-work-at-philadelphias-fabric-workshop

[(PDF) Revolving Together Like Stars: The Art of Anna Halprin]
... Janine Antoni, Stephen Petronio 113 God Save Petronio! In the Paradise of First Grace Richard Move 129 Rope Dance Anna Halprin, Janine ... creates performance ...
URL: https://www.academia.edu/38627190/Revolving_Together_Like_Stars_The_Art_of_Anna_Halprin

[ART-PRESENTATION: Janine Antoni, Anna Halprin & Stephen Petronio ...]
Janine Antoni in collaboration with Anna Halprin, Paper Dance, 2013, 20 April 2016 performance view from Ally, produced in collaboration with The Fabric Workshop and Museum, Photo: Carlos Avendaño, Courtesy of the artists and The Fabric Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia Janine Antoni, Anna Halprin & Stephen Petronio, Rope Dance, 2015.
URL: https://www.dreamideamachine.com/?p=13076

[Janine Antoni & Stephen Petronio Entangle - Tang Teaching Museum]
A visitor follows the rope in Rope Dance, 2015, concept, title and score by Anna Halprin; interpretations and variations by Janine Antoni and Stephen Petronio; commissioned by The Fabric Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia.
URL: https://d1e2ukuji7yni.cloudfront.net/exhibitions/224-janine-antoni-stephen-petronio-entangle


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Rope Dance — Janine Antoni] ---
Rope Dance, 2015 Concept, title and score by Anna Halprin Interpretations and variations by Janine Antoni and Stephen Petronio Performance and single channel video Video duration: 31:21 Commissioned by The Fabric Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia Anna Halprin created a performance with Janine Antoni and Stephen Petronio at her Mountain Home Studio in Kentfield, California in September 2014. Ropes formed the connective material between the artists’ bodies in motion. In the gallery, Rope Dance was given presence through a thirty-minute film of Halprin’s face witnessing the performance, and the sounds of Antoni and Petronio’s enactment on Halprin’s dance deck. As Antoni says: "the film is a document of the dance recorded on Anna's face." On specific occasions during the installation, Antoni and Petronio invited visitors to the exhibition to re-explore the materials and potentials of the performance in a participatory event.


--- [Janine Antoni gets wrapped up in her work at Philadelphia's Fabric ...] ---
Ally, an art and dance project at the Fabric Workshop and Museum in Philadelphia, is “not your normal exhibition”, says the artist-in-residence Janine Antoni. Working with the choreographer Stephen Petronio and Anna Halprin, the 95-year-old Postmodern dance performer who helped pioneer the genre in the 1960s, Antoni has created a programme of performances, as well as installations and sculptures that take up four floors of the museum. The multi-disciplinary project aims to “show how everything in life is connected, stays in process and has malleable meanings,” she told an audience at the preview last week. The collaboration started in 2012, when Halprin provided Antoni and Petronio with the scores to some of her previous performances. “We kept going to back to her and instead of closing [the process] she opened it more each time,” Antoni said. “That’s what Halprin taught me about process through dance: there are fleeting moments, and somehow certain moments stick to you.” Performances are scheduled to take place throughout the exhibitions three-month run, although reservations for many of them have already been filled. These include the three remaining dates when Petronio and Antoni perform Rope Dance, a partially choreographed and improvised dance conceived by Halprin in 2014, where the two tug-and-pull on long ropes to draw lines through the gallery. The audience is eventually invited to join the artists, and the interaction forms a random web. Before the performance and during off-hours, visitors can see a video of Halprin’s face as she reacts to Petronio and Antoni performing the dance on the deck of her home in Kentfield, California. Visitors can still reserve spots to see Paper Dance, which Antoni described as “a miniature retrospective of my work, told through dance”. The gallery contains shipping crates, rolls of brown paper and some of the artist’s previous work, such as the chocolate and soap sculpture Lick & Lather (1993), which Antoni swaps out during each week’s performance, unpacking and repacking them. She also creates temporary sculptures from the rolls of paper, which she wraps around herself as she undresses. When the performance isn’t taking place, a film of Halprin’s Parades of Changes (1965), which also used brown paper, is screened in the gallery. Even the sculptural works in the show are tied to the temporal. In the installation Swallow, for example, a 10ft strip of cotton that was woven at the museum and swallowed by Antoni and Petronio in front of ten witnesses in 2015, sits on a golden reliquary. Above conjoined chairs, ten audio speakers relay the viewers’ descriptions of the act, one of them describing it as “something so common becoming something so primal”. At the other end of the room the only photograph of the event is printed in black and white on a cloth that is held in a glass case with live moths, which are expected to breed and consume the fabric by the end of July. “Most materials you see in exhibitions have longevity, and this project conveys meaning through other terrains,” Adrian Heathfield, the performance writer who has edited a forthcoming book on the project, told The Art Newspaper. “What we are doing here is transplanting ephemeral things and situations that are momentarily engaging—things that burn and disappear.” The exhibition is supported by The Pew Center for Arts & Heritage and Creative Capital. Additional funding comes from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Shipley-Miller Foundation, and the board of directors and members of the Fabric Workshop and Museum. • Ally, Fabric Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia, until 31 July. All performances are free with reservations. See the museum’s website for times.


--- [(PDF) Revolving Together Like Stars: The Art of Anna Halprin] ---
No content


--- [ART-PRESENTATION: Janine Antoni, Anna Halprin & Stephen Petronio ...] ---
ART-PRESENTATION: Janine Antoni, Anna Halprin & Stephen Petronio The exhibition “Ally” navigates the gap between Art and Dance, is conceived and performed by Janine Antoni in collaboration with choreographer Stephen Petronio and movement artist Anna Halprin. Taking the form of performances, installation environments, videos, and sculptures, the exhibition occupies four floors of The Fabric Workshop and Museum By Dimitris Lempesis Photo: The Fabric Workshop and Museum Archive For 40 years The Fabric Workshop and Museum in inviting artists to create new work using experimental materials and techniques. “Ally” explores shifting configurations and possibilities between the three artists, at times drawing on all three and at other times pairing Antoni and Halprin, Antoni and Petronio, and Halprin and Petronio. Janine Antoni said about the exhibition “I conceived of this project more than six years ago as a kind of retrospective of my art making, told through dance. t has evolved into a truly collaborative creation that allows us to find a way to continue making new work while looking back”. The exhibition comprises four projects: Rope Dance: is an improvised performance work instigated by Halprin, who presented a rope to Antoni and Petronio to be used as a tool to connect their bodies and draw lines through space. The concept is expanded, to include the participation of viewers as well. A wall-sized projection is screened in the gallery space, when the performance is not taking place, here, rather than documenting the dancers, the camera captures Halprin watching the process of a dance coming into form. (Performance, monthly, and installation, First Floor). The complex installation project “Swallow” aims to connect Antoni, Petronio, and the audience on a very basic human and symbolic level. Swallow began with the artist making a performance for invited ‘witnesses’ in which they each swallowed half of a 10-foot strip of cloth woven by the Museum. The recovered remnant of the cloth is housed in the visual centerpiece of the installation, a spot-lit elevated gold reliquary. Inspired by the form of a traditional monstrance, the shape of the reliquary echoes that of the human body. An ornate magnifying lens crowns the reliquary, inviting the viewer to peer down into the dual chambers at the point in the fabric where Antoni and Petronio met. Across the room, visitors encounter a simple glass vitrine containing another piece of cloth, upon which has been screen-printed in graphite and saliva the only photograph of the swallowing ritual. (Installation, Second Floor). Wearing a shimmery gold robe, a Venetian mask, and a pair of women’s pumps, Stephen Petronio performs “The Courtesan and the Crone”, a dance of seduction originally created by Halprin as a solo for herself in 1999. At its completion, Petronio hooks his golden robe to a rope attached to a red theater curtain. As the curtain descends, the costume rises. (Performance, monthly, and installation, Seventh Floor). Once a week, for 14 weeks Antoni performs “Paper Dance”, an improvised movement performance. Drawing on images and concerns that have long preoccupied her as an artist, Antoni uses rolls of brown paper originally employed by Halprin in her seminal work “Parades and Changes” (1965). These performances take place within an installed arena of many wooden packing crates containing works by Antoni. Each iteration calls for Antoni to begin by unpacking one of her earlier works from a crate. A ‘retrospective’ of Antoni’s previous works slowly emerges over the duration of the exhibition, with chosen works appearing, remaining for a week, then disappearing as they are re-packed into the installed crates. After executing this repetitive activity, Antoni enacts the improvised performance work with paper, shifting its content weekly in relation to the installation’s new assembly of her artistic history. When the performance is not taking place, a film of Halprin’s earliest version of “Parades and Changes” is screened amidst the crated works. The paper remnants of Antoni’s performances slowly accumulate over the course of the exhibition. (Performance, weekly, and installation, Eighth Floor). Info: Curatorial Advisor: Adrian Heathfield, The Fabric Workshop and Museum, 1214 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Duration: 21/4-31/7/16, All performances are free, Due to seating limitations reservations are recommended for: Paper Dance, Rope Dance, Reservations are not required for: Courtesan and Crone, www.fabricworkshopandmuseum.org


--- [Janine Antoni & Stephen Petronio Entangle - Tang Teaching Museum] ---
Janine Antoni & Stephen Petronio: Entangle presents three works that combine action, video, and installation. Rope Dance, On the Table, and Honey Baby explore a range of ongoing multidisciplinary collaborations, which the artists began more than three years ago, setting out to blur the lines between artist, dancer, choreographer, and audience. Each offering has one element in common—a wooden floor—that frames different activities understood through the body. Antoni and Petronio, who emerged from the worlds of visual art and dance respectively, will be in residence at Skidmore College as the 2016-17 Don and Judy McCormack Endowed Visiting Artist-Scholars. The artists will visit campus from March 1 to 4 and April 3 to 7 to engage with students, faculty, and the public. Public talks will be at 5:30 pm March 2 and 7 pm April 6, both at the Tang Teaching Museum. Note: The gallery will be closed as new works are installed, from March 20 to April 5, and May 1 to 12 Rope Dance is an interactive experience created by legendary movement artist Anna Halprin, with Antoni and Petronio. In this dance, a rope is used as a tool to both connect moving bodies and articulate the space between them. Several times during the exhibition the artist will facilitate a group experience employing the rope as originally activated by Halprin. Antoni and Petronio respond to their experience of Rope Dance in an installation that explores heightened physical awareness and absence. Upon entering, one is confronted with a large but ghostlike image of an elderly lady watching something. On closer inspection one can peer through the screen to a chair spotlit on an empty dance floor. Exploring the periphery of the space, one encounters a rope disappearing behind a black curtain. Following that rope, viewers find themselves in darkness with only the rope to lead them. They eventually come to the dance floor with the single chair, where they can sit and experience a rendition of the dance performed by Antoni and Petronio captured in the moving expression on the face of its creator, Halprin. On the Table is an invitation to come together. The gallery is at once a set and a dining room, featuring a tablecloth woven out of 200 neckties. Twelve ties extend out from the table allowing them to be worn while eating and talking, literally connecting the guests at the table with the fabric web of the tablecloth. Throughout a single month, the Tang will host four dinners at the table in the gallery space, each with a different topic of conversation. Tom Yoshikami, Museum Educator for College and Public Programs, will organize this series of dinners with students, based on issues they feel are important. The artists will be on campus to visit with classes and participate in the first dinner from April 3 – 7. Between dinners, the installation will be offered to the community as a tool for dialogue. Gallery goers will be encouraged to invite guests of their choice, at times they determine, to have the exchanges they desire at the table. They and their guests will be offered the opportunity to set the lighting most conducive for the conversation they intend to have. Honey Baby is an immersive experience created by Antoni and Petronio. The spectator reclines on the horizontal plane to view the video above, confounding our notion of the body’s relation to gravity. The video, inspired by motion in utero, captures a folding and tumbling male body suspended in a honey-filled environment. Viscous liquid dripping down a body in developmental transformation reveals a uniquely sensual relationship between subject and host. The fourteen-minute video brings you incrementally closer, until a collapse of space presses the viewer up against the body. Like Lazarus Did (2013) was the first collaboration between Antoni and Petronio. The final dance of this work, Trevor, was drawn from sonograms of a child developing in utero. This stage work, which was performed by Nick Sciscione, a member of Petronio’s dance company, was the starting point for Honey Baby. Sciscione will appear at the Tang periodically over the course of the exhibition to perform Trevor live in the space. Antoni and Petronio’s first collaboration in 2013 also included a living set made by Antoni, which she performed in while hanging above the audience. The video Honey Baby was commissioned in 2013 by the Mattress Factory, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvainia. The artists came back together at the Joyce Theater for Stripped (2014), a solo dance by Petronio with a costumed intervention made by Antoni. In 2015 they made a series of work for Test Site, in Austin, Texas. Most recently, Halprin joined them to produce Ally (2016) at the Fabric Workshop and Museum in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Entangle brings a series of these past works, transformed specifically for the Tang Museum. The artists will work with Skidmore students from several departments to explore creativity and collaboration using the work they show at the Tang Museum as a point of departure. Janine Antoni was born in Freeport, Bahamas, in 1964. She received her BA from Sarah Lawrence College in New York, and earned her MFA from the Rhode Island School of Design in 1989. She has exhibited nationally and internationally at numerous institutions including the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York; Museum of Modern Art, New York; San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Washington, DC; The Reina Sofia, Madrid, Spain; The Irish Museum of Modern Art, Dublin; Haywood Gallery, London; and Sammlung Goetz, Munich, Germany. She has also been represented in international biennials including the Whitney Biennial; Venice Biennale; Johannesburg Biennial; Kwangju Biennial, South Korea; Istanbul Biennial; S.I.T.E. Santa Fe Biennial; Project 1 Biennial, New Orleans; and Kochi-Muziris Biennale, India. Antoni is the recipient of several prestigious awards, including the IMMA Glen Dimplex Artists Award in 1996, a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Fellowship in 1998, the New Media Award, ICA Boston in 1999, the Larry Aldrich Foundation Award in 1999, an Artes Mundi, Wales International Visual Art Prize nomination in 2004, The John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship in 2011, a 2012 Creative Capital Artist Grant, Anonymous Was A Woman Grant in 2014, and A Project Grant from The Pew Center for Arts and Heritage to collaborate with choreographers Anna Halprin and Stephen Petronio at the Fabric Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia for the 2016 exhibition Ally. Stephen Petronio was born in Newark, New Jersey, and received a BA from Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts, where he began his early training in improvisation and dance technique. He was greatly influenced by working with Steve Paxton and was the first male dancer of the Trisha Brown Dance Company (1979 to 1986). For 30 years, Petronio has honed a unique language of movement that speaks to the intuitive and complex possibilities of the body informed by its shifting cultural context. He has received numerous accolades, including a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship, awards from the Foundation for Contemporary Performance Arts, New York Foundation for the Arts, an American Choreographer Award, and a New York Dance and Performance “Bessie” Award. He has collaborated with a wide range of artists in many disciplines over his career and holds the integration of multiple forms as fundamental to his creative drive and vision. Petronio is a leading contemporary dance-maker. New music, visual art, and fashion combine in his dances, producing modern landscapes for the senses. He has built a body of work with some of the most talented and provocative artists in the world, including composers Clams Casino, Atticus Ross, Valgeir Sigurðsson, Nico Muhly, Fischerspooner, Rufus Wainwright, Lou Reed, Laurie Anderson, Son Lux, James Lavelle, Michael Nyman, Sheila Chandra, Diamanda Galás, Andy Teirstein, Wire, Peter Gordon, Lenny Pickett, and David Linton; visual artists Janine Antoni, Cindy Sherman, Anish Kapoor, Donald Baechler, Stephen Hannock, Tal Yarden, Arnaldo Ferrara, and Justin Terzi III; fashion designers Narciso Rodriguez, John Bartlett, Jillian Lewis, Adam Kimmel, Benjamin Cho, Michael Angel, Tony Cohen, Rachel Roy, Tara Subkoff, Tanya Sarne/Ghost, Leigh Bowery, Paul Compitus, Manolo, Yonson Pak, and H. Petal; and Resident Lighting Designer Ken Tabachnick. Founded in 1984, Stephen Petronio Company has performed in 26 countries, including over 40 New York City engagements with 21 seasons at The Joyce Theater. The Company has been commissioned by Dance Umbrella Festival, London; Hebbel Theater, Berlin; Scène Nationale de Sceaux, Festival d’Automne à Paris, CNDC Angers, France; The Holland Festival; Festival Montpellier Danse; Danceworks UK Ltd; Festival de Danse de Cannes; and in the U.S. by San Francisco Performances, The Joyce Theater, UCSB Arts & Lectures, Wexner Center for the Arts, Walker Art Center, and White Bird, among others.
