=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Alfonso Ribeiro - Wikipedia]
Ribeiro was born in New York City in the Riverdale neighborhood of the Bronx [1] to parents of Trinidadian descent. [2] His paternal grandfather was Albert Ribeiro, a calypsonian known professionally as Lord Hummingbird. [3] His aunt had been a dancer on Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In in the 1960s and 1970s. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfonso_Ribeiro

[Alfonso Ribeiro Wiki: What's His Ethnicity? Religion And Family]
Jan 28, 2024 · It is a Caribbean country with a varied cultural heritage. Albert Ribeiro, Ribeiro’s paternal grandpa, was a well-known Trinidadian calypsonian. He went under the stage moniker “Lord Hummingbird.” He was well-known at the time. This also displays his family’s broad cultural past, which includes African and Portuguese elements.
URL: https://voxhour.com/alfonso-ribeiro-wiki-whats-his-ethnicity-religion-and-family/

[Alfonso Riberio at 50: "Let the World Go, But Hold Your Joy"]
Sep 21, 2021 · His lineage in the entertainment business is strong since his grandfather, Albert Ribeiro, was a calypso singer known as Lord Hummingbird. His aunt was a dancer on the sketch comedy show Laugh-In, which aired during the 1960s and 1970s and was an early vehicle for Lily Tomlin and Goldie Hawn.
URL: https://blackdoctor.org/alfonso-ribierio-carlton-dance/

[Alfonso Ribeiro - Ethnicity of Celebs | EthniCelebs.com]
Jan 3, 2008 · Alfono’s grandfather was Albert Ribeiro, a Trinidadian calypsonian, known professionally as Lord Hummingbird (the son of Reginald Ribeiro). Reginald was the son of Emmanuel Ribeiro, of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Alfonso has been described on the internet as the grandson of Roaring Lion, a calypso singer and composer. This is not accurate.
URL: https://ethnicelebs.com/alfonso-ribeiro

[15 Interesting Things About Alfonso Ribeiro - TVovermind]
His paternal grandfather Albert Ribeiro, known professionally as Lord Hummingbird, was a Trinidadian calypsonian.
URL: https://tvovermind.com/things-you-didnt-know-about-alfonso-ribeiro/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Alfonso Ribeiro - Wikipedia] ---
Alfonso Lincoln Ribeiro (born September 21, 1971) is an American actor, comedian, and television host. In a career spanning over four decades, he is best known for his role as Carlton Banks on the NBC television sitcom The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air (1990–1996), as well as his performances on Silver Spoons (1984–1987) and In the House (1996–1999).
Ribeiro started his career as a child actor and gained recognition for his titular performance in the Broadway musical The Tap Dance Kid. He later competed in the thirteenth season of the British survival show I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!. Ribeiro currently hosts ABC's video clip series America's Funniest Home Videos and co-hosts its reality competition series Dancing with the Stars with Julianne Hough. He won the latter program's nineteenth season alongside professional dancer Witney Carson, with whom he presented the GSN game show Catch 21.




--- [Alfonso Ribeiro Wiki: What's His Ethnicity? Religion And Family] ---
Fans want to know whether Alfonso Ribeiro is a Mormon. Join us as we investigate his religious views, ethnicity, and background. Alfonso Ribeiro was born in The Bronx, New York, on September 21, 1971. He is a multi-talented American performer known for his work in acting, comedy, and television hosting. Alfonso began his career in show business at the age of eight. He rose to prominence in 1983 as the lead in the Broadway smash “The Tap Dance Kid.” Furthermore, he is well-known for his role in the popular comedy “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.” This has left an everlasting imprint with his unique dancing skills and “Carlton Dance.” Ribeiro has also flourished as the host of “America’s Funniest Home Videos,” a program that showcases his charm and wit. Is Alfonso Ribeiro a Christian? Religion Fans want to know whether Alfonso Ribeiro is a Mormon. The actor has not made any public statements about his religious views. Mormonism is a unique Christian denomination that is officially known as The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This faith has its own set of doctrines, rituals, and beliefs. It is clear from the marriage images of the actor Alfonso and his adored wife Angela that they exchanged a Christian promise. Mormons, on the other hand, followed the same marital culture. Because Alfonso has not publicly stated his religious beliefs, claiming that he is a Mormon or a member of any religious organization would be incorrect. Alfonso Ribeiro’s Ethnicity and Place of Origin Alfonso Ribeiro is of African and Afro-Trinidadian descent. He was born in New York City, precisely in The Bronx’s Riverdale district. The actor was born to Afro-Trinidadian parents. The origins of his family may be traced back to Trinidad and Tobago. It is a Caribbean country with a varied cultural heritage. Albert Ribeiro, Ribeiro’s paternal grandpa, was a well-known Trinidadian calypsonian. He went under the stage moniker “Lord Hummingbird.” He was well-known at the time. This also displays his family’s broad cultural past, which includes African and Portuguese elements. According to IMDb, there have been allegations that Alfonso Ribeiro is of Dominican heritage. He has, however, stated in interviews that these claims are false. His ancestors are from Trinidad & Tobago, not the Dominican Republic. Alfonso Ribeiro’s affinity with his African and Afro-Trinidadian ancestors exemplifies the value of recognizing and enjoying one’s cultural and ethnic history. He is proud of his culture and background. The actor’s diverse upbringing has contributed to his multicultural fabric and nuanced performance. Alfonso Ribeiro’s Children Alfonso Ribeiro and his wife, Angela, have raised four gorgeous children. Alfonso Jr., Anders, and Ava are their three children. The actor is also a dedicated father to Sienna, his ex-wife Robin Stapler’s daughter from a previous marriage. Their blended family dynamic demonstrates their dedication to providing a loving and supportive environment for all of their children. Alfonso, the actor, values parenting and has developed a unique method of teaching his children. He believes in experience learning rather than encouraging students to read primarily in typical classroom settings. Alfonso relishes the chance to educate and lead his children via the different experiences and information obtained through travel. On social media, the family often shares peeks of their vacations and family experiences. This exemplifies their close friendship and the fascinating experiences they have as they travel the globe together.


--- [Alfonso Riberio at 50: "Let the World Go, But Hold Your Joy"] ---
No content


--- [Alfonso Ribeiro - Ethnicity of Celebs | EthniCelebs.com] ---
Alfonso Ribeiro Birth Name: Alfonso Lincoln Ribeiro Place of Birth: The Bronx, New York City, New York, U.S. Date of Birth: September 21, 1971 Ethnicity: African-Trinidadian, some African-Vincentian Alfonso Ribeiro is an American actor, television host, director, and comedian. He co-starred on The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, playing Carlton Banks, and is also known for his roles on Silver Spoons, In the House, and as the host of America’s Funniest Home Videos. He has also directed episodes of In the House, All of Us, Meet the Browns, Are We There Yet?, Shake It Up, and K.C. Undercover. His parents were from Trinidad and Tobago. Alfonso is married to writer Angela Unkrich. He has a daughter with his former wife Robin Stapler; and three children with Angela. Alfono’s grandfather was Albert Ribeiro, a Trinidadian calypsonian, known professionally as Lord Hummingbird (the son of Reginald Ribeiro). Reginald was the son of Emmanuel Ribeiro, of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Alfonso has been described on the internet as the grandson of Roaring Lion, a calypso singer and composer. This is not accurate.


--- [15 Interesting Things About Alfonso Ribeiro - TVovermind] ---
Alfonso Ribeiro, born Alfonso Lincoln Ribeiro on September 21, 1971, is a face that’s easily recognizable from the popular 90s show, The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. Ribeiro is an amazing actor, comedian, and successful TV host. Who is Alfonso Ribeiro, and what has he been up to? Here are 10 interesting things about the actor. 1. Alfonso Ribeiro is from Trinidadian Descent Although the actor is an American born in New York City, New York, his parents are from Trinidad & Tobago. His paternal grandfather Albert Ribeiro, known professionally as Lord Hummingbird, was a Trinidadian calypsonian. 2. Alfonso Ribeiro’s Career Began When He was 8 Destined to be a star, Ribeiro was already on television at age 8. He started his career on the TV series Oye Ollie. 3. Alfonso Ribeiro Appeared in the Broadway Musical, The Tap Dance Kid In the 1983 Broadway production of The Tap Dance Kid, Ribeiro was cast as Willie. It received seven nominations at the 1984 Tony Award and won in two categories, Best Performance by a Featured Actor in a Musical (Hinton Battle) and Best Choreography (Danny Daniels). 4. Michael Jackson Cast Alfonso Ribeiro in a Pepsi Commercial Ribeiro’s performance in The Tap Dance Kid caught the attention of the King of Pop, Michael Jackson. Jackson then decided to cast Ribeiro in one of his Pepsi commercials. 5. Alfonso Ribeiro Released Several Musical Singles In his early years, Ribeiro dabbled into music and released singles after being signed to Prism Records. Although not commercial successes, they proved the actor had much more to offer than tapping away at Broadway shows. His songs included “Dance Baby,” “Not Too Young (To Fall in Love),” “Time Bomb,” and “Ooh Child.” 6. Alfonso Ribeiro’s Film Debut was John Grin’s Christmas After starring in two TV series, Oye Ollie and Silver Spoons, Ribeiro starred in his first TV movie, John Grin’s Christmas, in 1986. In the movie, he played the character of Kenneth. 7. Alfonso Ribeiro’s Most Prominent Role was Playing Carlton Banks Ribeiro’s most iconic and memorable character is Charlton Banks in the 1990 to 1996 seasons of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. The actor starred in the NBC’s sitcom alongside Will Smith. Charlton Banks was the cousin of Will Smith’s character. 8. The Actor’s Dance in The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air is Famously Known as The Carlton Remember that iconic dance Ribeiro did in The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air? Yes, the one he did was dancing to Tom Jones’s, It’s Not Unusual. Well, the dance remains as popular as the sitcom itself. The dance routine, even until this day, is still famously regarded as “The Charlton.” 9. Alfonso Ribeiro Participated and Won the 19th Season of Dancing with the Stars with Witney Carson As a participant in the 19th season of the show, Ribeiro partnered with Witney Carson, a professional dancer. Apart from the “Partner Switch-Up” week, where he was paired with Cheryl Burke, Ribeiro, and Carson stayed on as partners. The pair would go on to win the season. Ribeiro was also included in the show’s history as the fourth celebrity to receive a score of 9 for each judge in a week. 10. Alfonso Ribeiro Became a co-host of Dancing with the Stars From winner to guest judge, and then coming in as a co-host, Ribeiro has achieved it all on Dancing with the Stars. The actor was made a co-host, alongside Tyra Banks, for the show’s 31st season. 11. Alfonso Ribeiro Has Remained Friends co-Star Will Smith After spending six seasons together, Ribeiro and Will Smith formed a bond and friendship that has lasted until this day. The duo has remained friends, with reports stating Ribeiro personally taught Smith’s eldest son, Trey, how to drive a car. 12. Alfonso Ribeiro’s Net Worth Several reports from sources tracking celebrity net worth estimate Ribeiro’s assets to be worth between $4–10 million. 13. Alfonso Ribeiro’s Wife & Kids The actor has been married twice and has four kids from his wives. He married his first wife, Robin Stapler, in 2002 and divorced in 2006. The union produced the actor’s first child and daughter, Sienna. In 2012, Ribeiro married his wife Angela Unkrich and has been blessed with three kids—Alfonso Jr., Anders, and Ava. 14. Alfonso Ribeiro Has Hosted Several Top TV Shows After the success and fame of playing Carlton Banks, Ribeiro has had the opportunity of hosting several TV shows to date. The first TV show he hosted was the 1994 Soul Train. He came on as a guest host for a single episode. Then he hosted Your Big Break in 2000, GSN Live, Catch 21, Spell-Mageddon, Unwrapped 2.0, and Dancing with the Stars. He’s currently still the host of America’s Funniest Home Videos and America’s Funniest Home Videos: Animal Edition. 15. Alfonso Ribeiro Has Also Directed Some TV Episodes The multi-talented actor has successfully made his directorial entry into Hollywood. So far, he has directed over 65 episodes across 9 TV shows. Follow Us
