=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ernst Abbe - Wikipedia]
Ernst Karl Abbe HonFRMS (23 January 1840 – 14 January 1905), was a German businessman, optical engineer, physicist, and social reformer. Together with Otto Schott and Carl Zeiss, he developed numerous optical instruments.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernst_Abbe

[Ernst Abbe | German Physicist & Optics Pioneer | Britannica]
Jan 19, 2026 · Two years later Abbe invented the apochromatic lens system for microscopes, which eliminates both the primary and the secondary colour distortion of light. Zeiss made Abbe his partner in 1876 and named him his successor.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ernst-Abbe

[A Microscopy Journey Through Time | ZEISS]
1886. First apochromatic microscope lens, a color-corrected objective lens for three wavelengths based on the calculations of Ernst Abbe.
URL: https://www.zeiss.com/microscopy/en/about-us/history.html

[Ernst Abbe - Wikiwand]
Ernst Abbe, relief at his grave In 1866, he became a research director at the Zeiss Optical Works, and in 1868 he invented the apochromatic lens, a microscope lens which eliminates both the primary and secondary color distortion. [5] By 1870, Abbe invented the Abbe condenser, used for microscope illumination. [5]
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Ernst_Abbe

[Ernst Abbe - Oxford Reference]
He also invented the apochromatic lens system (1886), which eliminated both primary and secondary color distortions and the Abbe condenser (1872) – a combination of lenses for converging light onto the specimen in microscopes.The partnership between Abbe and Zeiss was a productive combination of Zeiss's practical knowledge and Abbe's ...
URL: https://www.oxfordreference.com/view/10.1093/oi/authority.20110803095343770


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ernst Abbe - Wikipedia] ---
Ernst Karl Abbe  (23 January 1840 – 14 January 1905),  was a German businessman, optical engineer, physicist, and social reformer. Together with Otto Schott and Carl Zeiss, he developed numerous optical instruments. He was also a co-owner of Carl Zeiss AG, a German manufacturer of scientific microscopes, astronomical telescopes, planetariums, and other advanced optical systems.




--- [Ernst Abbe | German Physicist & Optics Pioneer | Britannica] ---
Ernst Abbe Ernst Abbe (born January 23, 1840, Eisenach, Grand Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach [now Germany]—died January 14, 1905, Jena, Germany) was a physicist whose theoretical and technical innovations in optical theory led to great improvements in microscope design (such as the use of a condenser to provide strong, even illumination, introduced in 1870) and clearer understanding of magnification limits. In 1873 he discovered the optical formula now called the Abbe sine condition, one of the requirements that a lens must satisfy if it is to form a sharp image, free from the blurring or distortion caused by coma and spherical aberration. As head of the Zeiss company, he reorganized the company and created many new benefits for its workers. In 1863 Abbe joined the University of Jena, rising to professor of physics and mathematics (1870) and director of the astronomical and meteorological observatories (1878). German industrialist Carl Zeiss sought to give the manufacture of optical instruments a sound mathematical and scientific basis rather than having it rely on trial and error, so in 1866 he hired Abbe as research director of the Zeiss optical works. Two years later Abbe invented the apochromatic lens system for microscopes, which eliminates both the primary and the secondary colour distortion of light. Zeiss made Abbe his partner in 1876 and named him his successor. Despite Abbe’s work, he and Zeiss were still dissatisfied with the quality of their glass, but in 1879 German chemist Otto Schott wrote Abbe about a new lithium-based glass he had produced that was ideal for Zeiss’s instruments. In 1884 Schott, Abbe, and Zeiss founded a glassmaking company, Schott and Associates Glass Technology Laboratory, in Jena. Abbe became head of the Zeiss company after Zeiss’s death in 1888. - Born: - January 23, 1840, Eisenach, Grand Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach [now Germany] - Subjects Of Study: - Abbe sine condition - optical system Abbe was concerned that future owners of Zeiss and Schott would tempted to enrich themselves at the companies’ and employees’ expense, so in 1889 he set up and endowed the Carl Zeiss Foundation to run the two companies. The foundation became the sole owner of Zeiss and of Abbe’s share of Schott in 1891. (Schott transferred his shares to the foundation after his death in 1935.) Abbe published in 1896 the foundation statute, which reorganized the two companies, with management, workmen, and the University of Jena sharing in the profits. The statute instituted many reforms that later became commonplace in Germany such as overtime and sick pay, disability assistance, a minimum wage, and at Zeiss a nine-hour day (which was shortened to eight hours in 1900).


--- [A Microscopy Journey Through Time | ZEISS] ---
A Microscopy Journey Through Time ZEISS has been producing high-precision microscopes since the middle of the 19th century. From 1857 onwards, the simple models were followed by compound microscopes. Thanks to the work of scientist Ernst Abbe, microscopes have been based on theoretical calculations since 1872. This enabled the production of large numbers of microscopes to the same exceptional quality. In addition to scientific applications, the microscopes came to be used for routine tasks in clinics, for checking materials, and for educational purposes. The development of microscopes kept advancing, resulting in new models with new technologies. A Visionary Entrepreneur Carl Zeiss (1816 – 1888) Milestones of ZEISS Microscopy A Microscopy Journey Through Time - 1846 Carl Zeiss opens a workshop for precision mechanics and optics in Jena. - 1847 Simple microscope with doublet and triplet optics. Production of simple microscopes begins. - 1857 Carl Zeiss sells his first compound microscope. - 1866 Begin of partnership with Ernst Abbe. - 1869 Illumination apparatus with focusable condenser: Ernst Abbe - 1872 Ernst Abbe's research results allow microscope optics to be produced on the basis of mathematical calculations for the first time. - 1884 Partnership between Zeiss, Abbe and Schott. Optical glass from Otto Schott enables more effectively corrected microscope systems. © Carl Bräunlich, ZEISS Archives. - 1886 First apochromatic microscope lens, a color-corrected objective lens for three wavelengths based on the calculations of Ernst Abbe. - 1893 Illumination device with separate control of the luminous field and condenser aperture: August Köhler (1866-1948). - 1896 ZEISS manufactures the first Greenough-type stereomicroscope. - 1903 Invention of the ultramicroscope by Henry Siedentopf and Richard A. Zsigmondy. - 1931 Beginning of TEM development by/at AEG - 1936 First prototype of a phase-contrast microscope based on Zernike's original design; he wins the Nobel Prize in 1953. - 1938 Plan Apochromats and Plan Achromats with a flat image field for micro-photography based on calculations by Hans Boegehold (1876-1965). - 1942 Cooperation for electron microscopy started by AEG and ZEISS. - 1949 Electrostatic AEG-ZEISS transmission electron microscope EM 8. - 1950 The Standard microscope becomes one of the most successful models in the history of ZEISS. - 1962 Beginning of SEM development in association with the Cambridge University. Cambridge Instruments establishes as a scientific instrument company by Horace Darwin. - 1965 Cambridge Scientific Instruments releases the first commercial SEM, the Stereoscan Mark I. - 1973 Axiomat, a microscope with unparalleled stability and image quality. - 1982 The laser scanning microscope, a microscope system with object scanning through an oscillating laser beam and electronic image processing. - 1984 EM 902 with imaging electron energy filter becomes first system on the market to generate high-resolution element mapping images. - 1985 ZEISS launches the first fully digital SEM, the DSM 950. - 1986 ZEISS unveils the "pyramids", a new generation of microscopes. The design includes special features of Axioplan, Axiophot, and Axiothron: ICS (Infinity Color Corrected System) and SI (System Integration). - 1993 Market launch of DSM 982 GEMINI field emission scanning electron microscope featuring combined electrostatic-magnetic lens (GEMINI technology). - 1995 Founding of LEO Electron Microscopy 50/50 Cooperation between ZEISS and Leica. - 1999 PlasDIC by ZEISS allows the use of plastic dishes for microscopic examinations. - 2004 LEO fully integrated in ZEISS as Nano Technology Systems Division. - 2005 The LSM 5 LIVE, a light microscope, with which living cells can be examined 20 times faster and in a particularly gentle manner, enters series production in Jena and receives the R&D Award for its performance in real-time research. - 2007 ZEISS introduces the ORION helium-ion microscope. Samples are scanned with helium ions instead of electrons. This provides markedly better resolution and improved material contrast. - 2010 The first super-resolution microscope system ELYRA PS.1 from ZEISS includes structured illumination microscopy (SIM) and photoactivated localization microscopy (PALM) modes. It is far surpassing the diffraction barrier and enables the observation of structural details with unprecedented accuracy. - 2011 Carl Zeiss NTS GmbH and Carl Zeiss MicroImaging GmbH jointly form the new ZEISS Microscopy business group offering light and electron microscopes to customers. - 2012 ZEISS introduces its first light sheet microscope system: ZEISS Lightsheet Z.1 works with an expanded light beam, the light sheet, that illuminates only a thin section of the sample, thus protecting the rest of the specimen. Biologists can use the microscope system to observe the development of entire organisms over several days or more. - 2013 With the acquisition of U.S.-based Xradia, Inc. ZEISS Research Microscopy Solutions becomes the only manufacturer of light, electron and X-ray microscopes, with unique solutions for research and routine inspection in materials and life sciences application fields. - 2014 ZEISS MultiSEM 505, a 61-beam (multi-beam) SEM and fastest SEM in the world, is introduced to the market. - 2018 APEER image analysis cloud platform is launched to a small group of people, being rapidly adapted by the academic community. - 2020 Based on the pioneering research and developments of Ernst H. K. Stelzer and Nobel laureate Eric Betzig, ZEISS Lattice Lightsheet 7 allows researchers to observe cellular processes within cells and small organisms in 3D for hours or days – all at subcellular resolution. - 2022 ZEISS experts Dr. Thomas Kalkbrenner, Dr. Jörg Siebenmorgen, and Ralf Wolleschensky win the Deutscher Zukunftspreis 2022 for their significant contribution in the development of the microscope system ZEISS Lattice Lightsheet 7. - 2023 ZEISS is fully acquiring and integrating arivis AG, offering a scientific image analysis ecosystem to researchers and creating a sub-product category for file format-agnostic software called ‘ZEISS arivis’. At the same time, APEER is becoming arivis Cloud. Behind the Scenes Microscopes Made in GermanyIn Jena production, components are mounted and whole light microscope systems are integrated. What has started as a small workshop for precision mechanics and optics in the middle of the nineteenth century, now has become a solid production facility. Today, over 120 employees manage this complexity and ensure the fast and precise production of our microscopes. A short glance back ZEISS has been producing high-precision microscopes since the middle of the 19th century. From 1857 onwards, the simple models were followed by compound microscopes (image: compound microscope from Carl Zeiss, Stand I, from 1891). Thanks to the work of scientist Ernst Abbe, microscopes have been based on theoretical calculations since 1872. This enabled the production of large numbers of microscopes to the same exceptional quality. The development of microscopes kept advancing, resulting in new models with new technologies. Foreman August Löber with mechanics and apprentices in 1864. Many employees who helped the company grow at the beginning were trained by him. Fighting for Nanometers Insights into the production facilityIn Jena production, components are mounted and whole light microscope systems are integrated. What has started as a small workshop for precision mechanics and optics in the middle of the nineteenth century, now has become a solid production facility. Today, over 120 employees manage this complexity and ensure the fast and precise production of our microscopes. Today, ZEISS microscopes like Axio Imager and Axio Observer, as well as high-end systems like Lightsheet, Lattice Lightsheet, LSMs and the Axioscan slide scanner leave production in Jena to be shipped to research institutes worldwide. There are two main areas in production: assembly and system integration. ZEISS Axio Observer is assembled in several steps on the production line. When calibrating high-resolution microscope systems, accuracy in the nanometer range is essential. An employee is adjusting the optical components in the scan head of ZEISS LSM 980. ZEISS Axioscan is set up by loading the 100 sample magazine to start the application test. Made to order 80% of the production workers only start working with the order in hand. Every system is tailored to the requirements of the customer. Did you know that? - … every production employee has its own specification? To do his part of the work he needs a specific certificate to be renewed every three to six months. - … ZEISS ships microscope systems and components worldwide between production facilities in reusable transport boxes? - … it takes up to 32 days to put a microscope system into operation?


--- [Ernst Abbe - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [Ernst Abbe - Oxford Reference] ---
Overview Ernst Abbe (1840—1905) German physicist Quick Reference (1840–1905) German physicist Abbe, who was born in Eisenach (now in Germany), came from poor parents but managed to become a lecturer at the University of Jena, where in 1886 he collaborated with Carl Zeiss, a supplier of optical instruments to the university, to improve the quality of microscope production. Up till then, this had been an empirical art without rigorous theory to aid design. Abbe's contribution was his knowledge of optical theory. He is known for the Abbe sine condition – a necessary condition for the elimination of spherical aberration in an optical system; such a system he described as aplanatic. He also invented the apochromatic lens system (1886), which eliminated both primary and secondary color distortions and the Abbe condenser (1872) – a combination of lenses for converging light onto the specimen in microscopes. The partnership between Abbe and Zeiss was a productive combination of Zeiss's practical knowledge and Abbe's mathematical and theoretical ability. After Zeiss's death, Abbe became the sole owner of the Zeiss company. From: Abbe, Ernst in A Dictionary of Scientists »
