=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Harry E. Huffman - Wikipedia]
Harry E. Huffman was originally a pharmacist who owned a drugstore on West Colfax Avenue in Denver. After seeing a movie for the first time, he foresaw the potential cultural impact of the medium and purchased the Bide-a-Wee Theater, a nickelodeon theater adjacent to his store.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_E._Huffman

[Harry E. Huffman's House (Shangri-La) in Denver, CO - Virtual Globetrotting]
Aug 12, 2023 · Harry E. Huffman was an American movie theater owner and manager. Originally a pharmacist in Denver, Colorado, he began purchasing movie theaters after seeing a motion picture for the first time and foreseeing their potential cultural impact. His home, a two-story mansion that he named...
URL: https://virtualglobetrotting.com/map/harry-e-huffmans-house-shangri-la/

[Shangri-La has been found! It’s in Denver! | Paradise Leased]
a child we would trick or treat at Harry Huffman’s Shsngri-law. A butler answered the door.. they handed out silver dollars. Today, it remains an unmolested private home! ... Save the Date – May 13, 2013 for Aaroe Architectural #22 John Parkinson Presentation! ... It Ain't Necessarily So! ... Curbed L.A. ... Eastsider L.A. ... St. James Park – Historic Los Angeles
URL: https://paradiseleased.wordpress.com/2011/08/04/shangri-la-has-been-found-its-in-denver/

[Denver's lost theaters: Looking back at the Aladdin, Orpheum, Rainbow Music Hall and more]
The Aladdin Theatre was built by Harry E. Huffman, who was known in Denver as "Mr. Movies" in the 1920s and 30s, according to this Denver Public Library guide to East Colfax history.
URL: https://denverite.com/2016/09/17/denvers-lost-venues-looking-back-aladdin-orpheum-rainbow-music-hall/

[Denver Bluebird Theater History, From Movies to Music | Denver Westword]
In the spring of 1921, Thompson sold it to Harry E. Huffman, a pharmacist who also owned the Bide-a-Wee movie theater on West Colfax. The new owner gave the space its current name in 1922, but it was known as the “Blue Bird Theater” for several ...
URL: https://www.westword.com/music/the-history-of-the-bluebird-theater-in-denver-20032875/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Harry E. Huffman - Wikipedia] ---
Harry E. Huffman (1883–1969) was an American movie theater owner and manager. Originally a pharmacist in Denver, Colorado, he began purchasing movie theaters after seeing a motion picture for the first time and foreseeing their potential cultural impact. In 1921, he purchased the movie theater next to his drugstore, and went on to own most of the major movie theaters in Denver at one time or another, earning him the nickname "Mr. Movies". He briefly owned a radio station and television station. He has been described as "the most powerful single voice in the development of popular entertainment and culture in Denver during the first-half of the 20th century". His home, a two-story mansion that he named Shangri-La, was a replica of the fictional monastery seen in the 1937 film Lost Horizon. The home was a fixture on the city's social scene as Huffman and his wife hosted lavish parties there for prominent guests from the business and entertainment worlds.


--- [Harry E. Huffman's House (Shangri-La) in Denver, CO - Virtual Globetrotting] ---
Harry E. Huffman was an American movie theater owner and manager. Originally a pharmacist in Denver, Colorado, he began purchasing movie theaters after seeing a motion picture for the first time and foreseeing their potential cultural impact. His home, a two-story mansion that he named Shangri-La, was a replica of the fictional monastery seen in the 1937 film Lost Horizon. The home was a fixture on the city's social scene as Huffman and his wife hosted lavish parties there for prominent guests from the business and entertainment worlds. Harry E. Huffman's House (Shangri-La) No Thumbnail © Bing Maps By jdubble07 @ 2023-08-12 12:19:08


--- [Shangri-La has been found! It’s in Denver! | Paradise Leased] ---
It was James Hilton’s best-selling 1933 novel Lost Horizon that first brought us the term “Shangri-La,” but it was Frank Capra who immortalized it with his epochal 1937 film version of the story starring Ronald Colman, Jane Wyatt, Sam Jaffe and Edward Everett Horton for Columbia Pictures. A money-loser upon its initial release, Lost Horizon has over time matured into a beloved classic. It remains today a wonder to behold, a visually stunning experience with credit due both to Capra and cinematographer Joseph Walker, but most importantly to art director Stephen Goosson, whose remarkable streamline moderne settings rank among the most spectacular and memorable film sets ever created. The Michigan born Goosson was one of a number of architects such as Lyle Wheeler and Carl Jules Weyl who found new careers in movies. Goosson entered films in 1919 working first for Lewis J. Selznick, then Joe Schenck, Cecil B. De Mille and others before finally settling as the head art director at Columbia Pictures for some twenty-five years, picking up five Oscar nominations along the way and a well deserved win for Lost Horizon. In some ways, Goosson’s sets were so arresting that they upstaged the film’s plot, a situation Capra himself candidly admitted in an oral history conducted in the 1950’s and quoted in Joseph McBride’s 1992 biography of the director The Catastrophe of Success. “I got lost in the architecture, in Utopia,” Capra related, “in the never, never land, and it was only toward the end of the picture that I got back on the track with human beings…” Capra could hardly be blamed for getting sucked into the wonderous Utopia of Shangri-La as invented by Hilton and brought to life by Goosson. It is, in fact, the de facto star of the picture and in my humble opinion, the most memorable thing in the whole picture. The sets in Lost Horizon were so compelling they led at least one person, mining magnate Harry E. Huffman to want Shangri-La for his own personal paradise and being a mining magnate he had the funds to do it. In 1937, the same year the film came out, Huffman wrote out what must have been a big check and engaged well-known Denver architect Raymond Harry Ervin to design a duplicate of Goosson’s Shangri-La for a hilltop site Huffman had purchased in Denver, Colorado at 150 South Bellaire Street. Ervin did such a great job on the house it has led Denver architectural blogger Tom Lundin on The Denver Eye to declare it may even surpass the original. In 1939, a blue ribbon panel of noted Denverites concurred, naming the Denver’s new “Shangri-La” estate one of the best buildings recently constructed in the Mile High City in a survey conducted by The Architectural Record. As for the remarkable Stephen Goosson, he was quite obviously a talented art director and I find it intriguing that in between his many film assignments he managed to design some real-life buildings of his own including some structures on the Columbia lot. He also designed a soundstage on what was then the Cecil B. De Mille Studios in Culver City (Culver Studios) that was, at the time of its construction, the largest single soundstage in the entire world. He also designed a very beautiful beach club called the Westport Beach Club in Palisades Del Rey, which sadly, has been demolished, but my ultimate favorite Stephan Goosson design was the magnificent Spanish hacienda he created for silent film star Milton Sills and his wife Doris Kenyon in 1927 at 315 North Saltair Avenue in Brentwood, which was given the literally dreamy name of El Sueno. To me it is one of the most sublime versions of a Spanish Colonial Revival hacienda I have yet seen and I’m happy to report that although the land surrounding it has suffered the inevitable subdivision, the home itself remains. It would be my version of Shangri-La! After all, we all have one in the back of our minds, don’t we? What’s yours? Lastly, credit where credit is due belongs to the photos I borrowed from Tom Lundin and his two wonderful blog sites The Denver Eye and MidModMid. And to NZ Pete who has a great site devoted to the remarkable and now lost art of matte painting and the artists who produced them. It was the unsung matte artists who transformed Burbank into “Shangri-La.” It was from his site that I got some of the production stills and he should get a special thanks for chronicling the achievements of the matte artists. Check these sites out!


--- [Denver's lost theaters: Looking back at the Aladdin, Orpheum, Rainbow Music Hall and more] ---
Are you ready to feel a little sad? Just look at what Curtis Street once looked like. Denver was once home to an almost surprising number of beautiful theaters. Not surprising because of some cowtown notion -- surprising because almost all traces of them have been erased. As it turned out, the '60s and '80s were not a good time to be a historic theater (though they were a pretty good time to be a Barry Fey venue). Almost every single one of the theaters listed below was demolished in those decades. Let's look back on what we lost. Aladdin Theatre 2000 E. Colfax Ave. Opened: October 1926 Demolished: August 1984 Now: Walgreens If you've ever wondered why the old liquor store on Colfax and Race is called Aladdin Liquors, this might explain it. The Aladdin Theatre was built by Harry E. Huffman, who was known in Denver as "Mr. Movies" in the 1920s and 30s, according to this Denver Public Library guide to East Colfax history. The 911-seat theater presented movies, plays and concerts. Upon its opening, Denver Post writer A. DeBernardi described it as "an entrancing dream, a living vision." Capitol Hill United Neighbors fought to save the building by getting it landmark designation, but didn't complete the task before it was demolished. These delightfully '80s 9News reports catalog that saga (with an excellent cameo from a business owner in a cowboy hat). According to those broadcasts, the initial plan was to put a relatively big building of condos and offices on the plot. The developer says he was open to someone saving the theater, but no one came forward. The Orpheum Theater 1513 Welton St. Opened: 1903 Demolished: 1967 Now: Parking lot Denver's Orpheum Theater was part of the Orpheum Circuit, a chain of movie and vaudeville theaters. According to Cinema Treasures, it was built in 1903, demolished in 1930 to build a new Orpheum, remodeled in 1955 and 1964, then finally closed and demolished in 1967. At the time of its closing, the capacity was 1,200, but the 1955 renovation once had it at 2,600. The Denver Theater 510 16th St. Opened: 1927 Demolished: 1980 Now: H&M Take a look at this postcard from the 1950s. It shows the Denver and Paramount theaters across from each other on 16th Street, pre-mall. The Victory Theater 1660 Curtis St. Opened: 1910 Closed: 1940 Now: U.S. Bank Tower When it was originally built, the Victory was first called the Princess Theater. It was part of Denver's Theater Row -- a strip of venues on Curtis Street -- and renamed the Victory Theater in 1919 in honor of the men who fought in WWI, according to Cinema Treasures. Tabor Grand Opera House 16th and Curtis streets Opened: 1881 Demolished: 1964 Now: Federal Reserve Bank of Denver The Tabor Grand Opera House began with Horace A.W. Tabor, who made his fortune from silver mines in Leadville, where he opened his first opera house, Cinema Treasures reports. It survived the emergence of movies with a remodel in 1921, when it was renamed the Colorado Theater. The name didn't stick, though. It was changed back to the Tabor around 1930. Talk of demolishing the opera house in order to build offices started around 1945, but the Tabor held on for almost another two decades. Efforts to at least preserve the theater's famous painted curtain were... all but nonexistent. Cinema Treasures says it went into storage with the Central City Opera House Association because it was too large to display. It eventually disintegrated and was thrown out. The Tabor Opera House in Leadville is still standing, so at least there's that. The Empress Theater 1625 Curtis St. Opened: 1907 Demolished: 1969 Now: 16th Street Center parking garage The Empress -- originally the Majestic -- got its name sometime around 1913 when Denver Post owners Frederick Bonfils and Harry Tammen bought it. A story in the Denver Post archive says, "In addition to the vaudeville acts that were popular at the time, they encouraged anything that would draw a crowd. They sponsored Charleston marathons and banana eating contests. They held saxophone, fiddle and harmonica playing competitions. There were car giveaways and lectures on dressmaking. Psychics, acrobats and flagpole sitters were hired to perform. One pole sitter set a record of 602 hours." This is possibly the most 1920s thing ever described. When Bonfils died in 1933, the Post reported, the theater closed for a few months. Eventually, in 1936 his estate sold it for $75,000 and it was renamed the Center Theater. By 1940, it became the New Victory Theatre. Things then got really confusing when, as Cinema Treasures notes, a new marquee just said "Victory." In its final years, the (New) Victory/Center/Empress was housing burlesque shows and adult films.. Rialto Theater 1540 Curtis St. Opened: 1913 Demolished: ???? Now: Courtyard Marriott, Starbucks and the Rialto Café Not to be confused with the Rialto Theater Center in Loveland, the Rialto Theater once stood in on the site of the building that houses the Rialto Café. There's not a lot of info readily available on this one. Cinema Treasures says it was originally called the United States Theater, putting it among all the other theaters on Curtis Street so creatively named for a reference to their location. Rainbow Music Hall 6360 E. Evans Ave. Opened: 1979 Closed: 1989 Now: Walgreens Colorado Music Hall of Fame concert promoter Barry Fey opened the Rainbow Music Hall in 1979 and spent a decade filling the venue with the biggest names touring at the time -- U2, Black Flag, Bob Dylan -- and up-and-comers like R.E.M. You can read a lot more about this place's history from the Denver Public Library, including this quote from the Rocky Mountain News in which Fey says music is for the kids long before Kanye ever scolded a VMA audience about it: "This place means more to me than just opening a concert hall. This is pride, man. I'm partners with the kids. They're the ones that made it possible. Music means more to Denver than someplace else. You couldn't make this happen in Cleveland and Detroit. We're caretakers for the kids who go there. It's their place." When Walgreens bought Rainbow Music Hall in 1989, it kept the marquee, but the sign had to be taken down in 2009 when a strip mall was built next door in what had been the parking lot. The Family Dog 1601 West Evans Ave. Opened: 1968 Closed: 1969 Now: PT’s Showclub Another Barry Fey-run venue, The Family Dog had a brief but glorious life. According to the Colorado Music Hall of Fame, the first show featured Janis Joplin with Big Brother & The Holding Company. In its short time operating, the 2,500-seat venue hosted the likes of the Doors, the Grateful Dead, the Byrds, Buffalo Springfield, Van Morrison, Canned Heat, Jefferson Airplane, Frank Zappa and Cream. The most expensive ticket ever sold, the Hall of Fame says, was a $4.50 ticket to see the Doors on New Year's Eve.


--- [Denver Bluebird Theater History, From Movies to Music | Denver Westword] ---
No content
