=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[1993-06-17 / Last Episode of "A Different World" - 2PacLegacy.net]
Feb 22, 2016 · On June 17th, Tupac appeared on the last episode of A Different World. He played Picolo, Lena’s old boyfriend. 2Pac – A Different World Part 1 2Pac – A Different World Part 2 See Also 1992-08-22 / Killing 6-year old Qa'id Walker-Teal in Marine City
URL: https://2paclegacy.net/1993-06-17/

["A Different World" Homey, Don't Ya Know Me? (TV Episode 1993) - IMDb]
Homey, Don't Ya Know Me?: Directed by Kadeem Hardison. With Jasmine Guy, Kadeem Hardison, Darryl M. Bell, Cree Summer. Lena's old boyfriend and some pals from her old neighbourhood pay her a visit but they find they don't fit in her new life.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0560154/

[List of A Different World episodes - Wikipedia]
List of A Different World episodes A Different World is a television spin-off of The Cosby Show set at Hillman College, the alma mater of Clair and Dr. Heathcliff Huxtable. It ran for six seasons on NBC, airing a total of 141 episodes, including three hour-long episodes. The last three episodes aired in syndication, bringing the total to 144.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_A_Different_World_episodes

[A Different World: 6x21 - Tupac Shakur makes his appearance at A ...]
A Different World (1987–1993) Season 6 Episode 21 Homey, Don't Ya Know Me? (24 Jun. 1993) Lena's friends from Baltimore come to visit for the weekend.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8HGhlRH_fuw

[Tupac Shakur - Wikipedia]
Tupac Amaru Shakur (/ ˈtuːpɑːk ʃəˈkʊər / ⓘ TOO-pahk shə-KOOR; born Lesane Parish Crooks; June 16, 1971 - September 13, 1996), also known by his stage names 2Pac and Makaveli, was an American rapper and actor. He was one of the most influential musical artists of the 20th century, and a prominent political activist for Black America. [1] He is among the best-selling music artists ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tupac_Shakur


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [1993-06-17 / Last Episode of "A Different World" - 2PacLegacy.net] ---
- Advertisement - On June 17th, Tupac appeared on the last episode of A Different World. He played Picolo, Lena’s old boyfriend. 2Pac – A Different World Part 1 2Pac – A Different World Part 2 - Advertisement - On June 17th, Tupac appeared on the last episode of A Different World. He played Picolo, Lena’s old boyfriend. 2Pac – A Different World Part 1 2Pac – A Different World Part 2


--- ["A Different World" Homey, Don't Ya Know Me? (TV Episode 1993) - IMDb] ---
Lena's old boyfriend and some pals from her old neighbourhood pay her a visit but they find they don't fit in her new life.Lena's old boyfriend and some pals from her old neighbourhood pay her a visit but they find they don't fit in her new life.Lena's old boyfriend and some pals from her old neighbourhood pay her a visit but they find they don't fit in her new life. - Director - Writers - Stars Darryl M. Bell - Ron Johnson - (credit only) Cree Summer - Freddie Brooks - (credit only) Glynn Turman - Colonel Brad Taylor - (credit only) Jada Pinkett Smith - Lena James - (as Jada Pinkett) Sergio Kato - Self - (uncredited) - Director - Writers - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro Featured reviews I caught this episode back in 93 when they use to show it every morning on TBS. It seemed like 2Pac just went in there and did whatever he wanted. He made Dorian (Bumper Larry Robinson) look really soft. I hope there wasn't any hard feeling because it seemed so real. I just purchased the season one DVD that included this episode (the Lost Episode Homie Don't Ya Know Me) I didn't care much about season one I just got it because of the 2Pac episode. However, I really want the last two seasons 5 and 6 on DVD. I can't seem to find it anywhere. I'm not sure if they have it on DVD or have in a DVD collection with all the seasons. Regardless I'm trying to find out how would I be able to get those two seasons. 10Eva9149 I love this episode of A Different World, with Jada Pinkett. I liked Lena, she was never OTT(Over the top) in any of the episode's, this one neither and the others were great and quite REALISTIC. Piccolo, portrayed by actor rap legend TUPAC was great. SO REALISTIC, and tall handsome REALLY good looking 'choir boy' like PICCOLO called Dorian was great too." I loved it all. I watch it each time it's on, including today./ Piccolo, portrayed by actor rap legend TUPAC was great. SO REALISTIC, and tall handsome REALLY good looking 'choir boy' like PICCOLO called Dorian was great too." I loved it all. I watch it each time it's on, including today./ This was one of the best episodes of "A Different World"-"Homey, Don't Ya Know Me?" It showed Tupac Shakur as ex-boyfriend of Lena James. Tupac displayed his remarkable acting skills and techniques. This is one of the best shows I ever viewed. I would love having this episode on tape for future viewings of "The Legend of All Times-Tupac Shakur". I just love Tupac and wish he could have done more shows. His character was "Piccolo" who was called just "Pic" by Lena. He was jut brilliant and showed a person can rise above their bad past lessons. Jada was an excellent actress/actor as well. They both were students of Baltimore School of Performing Arts. Great episode for the new crew. Some behaviors are over the top. I don't understand why Lena didn't check her friends and their inappropriate behavior when they first came. Did you know - TriviaTupac Shakur and Jada Pinkett went to school together at the Baltimore School for the Performing Arts. Details Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [List of A Different World episodes - Wikipedia] ---
A Different World is a television spin-off of The Cosby Show set at Hillman College, the alma mater of Clair and Dr. Heathcliff Huxtable. It ran for six seasons on NBC, airing a total of 141 episodes, including three hour-long episodes. The last three episodes aired in syndication, bringing the total to 144.




--- [A Different World: 6x21 - Tupac Shakur makes his appearance at A ...] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Tupac Shakur - Wikipedia] ---
Tupac Amaru Shakur (  TOO-pahk shə-KOOR; born Lesane Parish Crooks; June 16, 1971 – September 13, 1996), also known by his stage names 2Pac and Makaveli, was an American rapper and actor. He was one of the most influential musical artists of the 20th century, and a prominent political activist for Black America. He is among the best-selling music artists, having sold more than 75 million records worldwide. Some of Shakur's music addressed social injustice, political issues, and the marginalization of African Americans, but he was also synonymous with rap and violent lyrics.
Shakur was born in New York City to parents who were Black Panther Party members. Raised by his mother, Afeni Shakur, he relocated to the San Francisco Bay Area in 1988. His debut album 2Pacalypse Now (1991) cemented him as a central figure in West Coast hip-hop for his political rap lyrics. Shakur achieved further critical and commercial success with his subsequent albums Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z... (1993) and Me Against the World (1995). His Diamond-certified album All Eyez on Me (1996), the first hip-hop double album, abandoned introspective lyrics for volatile gangsta rap. It yielded two Billboard Hot 100-number one singles, "California Love" and "How Do U Want It". Alongside his solo career, Shakur formed the group Thug Life and collaborated with artists like Snoop Dogg, Dr. Dre, and the Outlawz. As an actor, Shakur starred in the films Juice (1992), Poetic Justice (1993), Above the Rim (1994), Bullet (1996), Gridlock'd (1997), and Gang Related (1997).
During his later career, Shakur was shot five times in the lobby of a New York recording studio and experienced legal troubles, including incarceration. He served eight months in prison on sexual abuse charges, but was released pending appeal in 1995. Following his release, he signed to Marion "Suge" Knight's label Death Row Records and became embroiled in the East Coast–West Coast hip-hop rivalry, which included a high-profile feud with his former friend the Notorious B.I.G. On September 7, 1996, Shakur was shot four times by an unidentified assailant in a drive-by shooting in Paradise, Nevada; he died six days later. Rumors circulated suggesting that the Notorious B.I.G. was involved; he was murdered in another drive-by shooting six months later in March 1997, while visiting Los Angeles.
Shakur's double-length posthumous album Greatest Hits (1998) is one of his two releases—and one of only nine hip-hop albums—to have been certified Diamond in the United States. Five more albums have been released since Shakur's death, including the acclaimed The Don Killuminati: The 7 Day Theory (1996) under the stage name Makaveli, all of which have been certified multi-platinum in the United States. In 2002, Shakur was inducted into the Hip-Hop Hall of Fame. In 2017, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in his first year of eligibility. Rolling Stone ranked Shakur among the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time. In 2023, he was awarded a posthumous star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. His influence in music, activism, songwriting, and other areas of culture has been the subject of academic studies.


