=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Colombia and ELN rebel group sign ceasefire agreement | Conflict News]
Jun 9, 2023 — The national bilateral ceasefire will go into effect on August 3 and last for six months, as both sides seek to build trust.
URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/6/9/colombia-and-eln-rebel-group-sign-ceasefire-agreement

[Colombia government, largest remaining rebel group agree to 6 ...]
Colombia’s President Gustavo Petro listens to a military aid during a bilateral ceasefire agreement signing ceremony between his government and the Colombian National Liberation Army (ELN) guerrilla, at El Laguito in Havana, Cuba, Friday, June 9, 2023.
URL: https://apnews.com/article/cuba-colombia-guerrilla-eln-peace-talks-ad1323e6c7330ed73c842e42be1a9a55

[Colombia and ELN rebels extend ceasefire by six months, agree to set ...]
Feb 6, 2024 — "We have agreed to extend the bilateral, national and temporary ceasefire for 180 days, starting at 00:00 on February 6, 2024. Each party will ...
URL: https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/colombia-eln-rebels-extend-ceasefire-by-six-months-2024-02-06/

[Colombian gov't, ELN sign 6-month truce — MercoPress]
Jun 10, 2023 · The Government of Colombia and the National Liberation Army (ELN) Friday signed in Havana a 180-day “national”, “bilateral” and “temporary” ceasefire effective from August 3, it was ...
URL: https://en.mercopress.com/2023/06/10/colombian-gov-t-eln-sign-6-month-truce

[Colombian peace process]
On August 24, 2016, negotiators announced a final agreement to end the conflict and build a lasting peace. President Santos and FARC commander-in-chief Rodrigo ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colombian_peace_process


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Colombia and ELN rebel group sign ceasefire agreement | Conflict News] ---
Colombia and ELN rebel group sign ceasefire agreement The agreement is a significant success for President Gustavo Petro’s agenda of ‘total peace’ after previous setbacks. Colombia and the National Liberation Army (ELN) — the country’s largest remaining rebel group — have signed a ceasefire agreement following months of negotiations, marking a major milestone in President Gustavo Petro’s campaign for “total peace”. Friday’s announcement is the culmination of a third round of talks, held in the Cuban capital of Havana. The national bilateral ceasefire will go into effect on August 3 and last for six months, as both sides seek to build trust. Recommended Stories list of 3 items- list 1 of 3Wiretapping scandal thrusts Colombian government into crisis - list 2 of 3Ex-paramilitary leader testifies about assassinations in Colombia - list 3 of 3Calls for ceasefire at start of latest Colombia-ELN peace talks “This is considered very important here because the ELN that has been operating in an open conflict with the Colombian state since the 1960s have never signed a sort of full nationwide ceasefire,” Al Jazeera correspondent Alessandro Rampietti reported live from Bogota, Colombia. “It would definitely be the biggest achievement so far in these peace negotiations that have been ongoing since the start of the government of President Gustavo Petro back in August.” The ceasefire agreement was initially expected on Thursday, but as Rampietti explained, the delegations involved “essentially asked for another 24 hours to iron out a number of details”. Petro himself flew to Havana on Thursday to be present at the signing ceremony, which was attended by ELN commander Antonio García and Cuban officials. “Here, a new world is born,” Petro said at the ceremony on Friday. “Here a phase of the armed insurgency in Latin America ends.” The agreement is the result of three rounds of successive negotiations, the first of which took place in December in Caracas, Venezuela. A second round occurred in Mexico City, followed by the third round in Havana, which launched in May. But the months-long negotiations were tense, sometimes appearing touch-and-go. To allow García, the ELN commander, to attend Friday’s ceremony, the Colombian government had to drop an arrest warrant that it had previously issued for him. García, for his part, was circumspect about Friday’s ceasefire. He was “very confident” in its terms, but he also described it as “procedural”, falling short of the “substantial” changes needed to end Colombia’s violence. Colombia has been enmeshed in a nearly six-decade-long civil conflict, with government forces, paramilitary groups, left-wing rebels and criminal networks all jostling for power. Petro, a former rebel himself, has promised to pursue a platform of “total peace” by seeking ceasefires with the armed groups that continue to operate in Colombia. Considered the country’s first left-wing president, Petro has sought to distance himself from the more aggressive tactics of his predecessors, by inviting these groups to the negotiating table. A report by the country’s Truth Commission, released last June, was critical of the militarised approach pursued by previous administrations as an answer to the violence. Though atrocities such as murder, kidnapping and torture have been carried out by all sides, the report found that the government and right-wing paramilitaries were responsible for the majority of the violence. A turning point in the conflict came in 2016, when the government of then-President Juan Manuel Santos signed peace accords with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), the largest rebel group at the time. The peace deal required that the FARC disband as an armed force, in exchange for rural reforms, political participation, reparations for victims and other terms. But the dissolution of the FARC left a power vacuum, and dissidents to the peace accords — as well as rival armed groups like the ELN — have continued to engage in violence. A report by the Red Cross earlier this year noted that, while the violence between military and rebel organisations decreased in 2022, Colombians continue to be displaced and maimed as armed groups fight for control of territory and resources. Petro’s pursuit of “total peace” has experienced ups and downs: In late December, the Colombia president prematurely announced a New Year’s ceasefire with the ELN that he later had to walk back. Talks with other armed groups have broken down amid surges of violence. For instance, in May, the government suspended a ceasefire in certain parts of the country with one armed group, the Estado Mayor Central (EMC), after the group killed several Indigenous teenagers. Rampietti, the Al Jazeera correspondent, said Friday’s deal in Havana could give a much-needed boost to Petro’s political prospects, after weeks of scandal and opposition-led scepticism about his government’s peace talks. “The government has been in the middle of a major political crisis here,” Rampietti said, referencing a recent controversy involving allegations of campaign finance violations. Petro has also seen his agenda of social and economic reforms stalled for months in Congress. “So this will be very important,” Rampietti said of the ELN agreement.


--- [Colombia government, largest remaining rebel group agree to 6 ...] ---
Colombia government, largest remaining rebel group agree to 6-month cease-fire Colombia government, largest remaining rebel group agree to 6-month cease-fire HAVANA, Cuba (AP) — Colombia’s government and its largest remaining guerrilla group agreed Friday to a six-month cease-fire at talks in Cuba, in the latest attempt to resolve a conflict dating back to the 1960s. The government and the National Liberation Army, or ELN, announced the accord at a ceremony in Havana attended by Colombian President Gustavo Petro, top guerrilla commander Antonio García and Cuban officials. The cease-fire takes effect in phases, goes fully into effect in August and then lasts for six months. “This effort to look for peace is a beacon of hope that conflicts can be resolved politically and diplomatically,” top rebel negotiator Pablo Beltrán said at the ceremony. The talks originally were scheduled to conclude with an official ceremony on Thursday, but were postponed as the parties asked for additional time to work on final details. Petro traveled to the island for the ceremony, saying it could herald an “era of peace” in Colombia. The accord reached Friday also calls for the formation of a broadly representative national committee by late July to discuss a lasting peace. “You have here proposed a bilateral agreement, and I agree with that, but Colombian society has to be able debate it, and to participate,” Petro said during the ceremony. García, the rebel commander, said his group was “very confident” in the accord, though he characterized it as “procedural” and not yet the “substantial” kind needed “for Colombia to change.” Negotiations between the sides had resumed in August, after being terminated in 2019 when the rebels set off a car bomb at a police academy in Bogota killing 21 people. Following that incident, the government of then-President Iván Duque (2018-2022) issued arrest warrants for ELN leaders in Cuba for the peace negotiations. But Cuba refused to extradite them, arguing that doing so would compromise its status as a neutral nation in the conflict and break with diplomatic protocols. Talks relaunched in November shortly after Petro was elected as Colombia’s first leftist president. Petro has pushed for what he calls a “total peace” that would demobilize all of the country’s remaining rebel groups as well as its drug trafficking gangs. He has questioned whether senior ELN leaders have full control of a younger generation of commanders who he has suggested are focused more on the illegal drug trade than on political goals. The ELN was founded in the 1960s by union leaders, students and priests inspired by the Cuban revolution. It is Colombia’s largest remaining rebel group and has been notoriously difficult for previous Colombian governments to negotiate with. In 2016, Colombia’s government signed a peace dea l with the larger FARC group that ended five decades of conflict in which an estimated 260,000 people were killed. But violence has continued to affect rural pockets of the country where the ELN has been active, along with FARC holdout groups and drug trafficking gangs. Colombian authorities have accused the ELN of involvement in the drug trafficking, but the group’s top leaders have denied that. ______ Juan Francisco Valbuena contributed reporting from Bogota.


--- [Colombia and ELN rebels extend ceasefire by six months, agree to set ...] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites). To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20240217051019/https://www.reuters.com/world/americas/colombia-eln-rebels-extend-ceasefire-by-six-months-2024-02-06/ Colombia and ELN rebels extend ceasefire by six months, agree to set up fund Reuters [1/6]Representative of the National Liberation Army (ELN) Pablo Beltran speaks during the sixth round of peace dialogues between Colombia's government and the National Liberation Army, accompanied by Vera Grabe Loewenherz, Chief of Delegation of the Government of Colombia, Cuba’s Foreign Minister... Purchase Licensing Rights, opens new tabRead more BOGOTA/HAVANA, Feb 6 (Reuters) - Colombia's government and National Liberation Army (ELN) rebels have extended their bilateral ceasefire for another six months starting Tuesday, the same day they announced the creation of a fund backed by multiple donors to finance the process. An initial six-month ceasefire expired last week and was then extended by five days. "We have agreed to extend the bilateral, national and temporary ceasefire for 180 days, starting at 00:00 on February 6, 2024. Each party will give the respective orders and instructions for compliance with this extension," they said in a joint statement published around midnight. President Gustavo Petro's government restarted peace talks with the ELN in 2022 as part of a policy of "total peace" to end the South American country's six-decade conflict, in which more than 450,000 people have been killed. So far, Petro's government has held six rounds of peace talks with the ELN, a process supported by Mexico, Norway, Venezuela, Cuba, Brazil and Chile, which are participating as guarantor countries. Although the ELN suspended kidnappings during negotiations, its leaders asked the government for financial resources principally to cloth and feed their members - among other items - an issue they are addressing in the talks. "A multi-donor peace fund will be created ... that seeks to strengthen this process and make it sustainable," said Vera Grabe, head of the government's delegation, without elaborating on the amount. Pablo Beltran, head of the ELN's negotiation team, said that the fund must be managed with "transparency" to avoid corruption. Negotiations with the ELN under previous administrations faltered on the group's diffuse chain of command and dissent within its ranks. Colombia's government is also negotiating with the Estado Mayor Central (EMC), the largest group of dissident former rebels of the now-demobilized Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Talks with other armed groups, including drug-trafficking gang the Clan del Golfo, have not yet been completed. Reporting by Nelson Bocanegra and Luis Jaime Acosta in Bogota, Nelson Acosta in Havana, and Natalia Siniawski in Gdansk; Writing by Oliver Griffin; Editing by Nick Macfie and Aurora Ellis Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump has privately expressed support for a 16-week national abortion ban, with exceptions in cases of rape, incest or risk to a mother's life, the New York Times reported on Friday, citing two sources.


--- [Colombian gov't, ELN sign 6-month truce — MercoPress] ---
The Government of Colombia and the National Liberation Army (ELN) Friday signed in Havana a 180-day “national”, “bilateral” and “temporary” ceasefire effective from August 3, it was reported. The UN and the Catholic Church will supervise compliance. ELN chief negotiator Israel Ramírez, alias Pablo Beltrán, stressed that it “seeks a humanitarian purpose, to reduce the conflict so that in Colombia there is a better climate for the participation of society” while Otty Patiño, head of the government's delegation, assured that this was a “crucial” step for the peace process. The ceasefire is the main result of the third cycle of peace talks in the Cuban capital, which concluded on Friday. The round, which began on May 2, came to a successful conclusion despite some controversial statements by President Gustavo Petro. The announcement -which was attended by Petro, his Cuban counterpart, Miguel Díaz-Canel, and the first ELN commander, Eliécer Herlinto Chamorro, alias Antonio García- was also a relief for the Colombian president. Petro, who is going through some internal turmoil due to a scandal involving former ambassador to Venezuela Armando Benedetti and his former chief of staff Laura Sarabia, said total peace could be achieved by May 2025 when “the decades-long war between ELN and the State will definitively cease.” ”The world of weapons and killing each other for decades (...) must stop. The violence we have lived through for generations, which we have been part of but have tried to overcome, tells us that we have not been able to build ourselves as a nation“, Petro stressed. ”Here a new world is born, here ends a phase of armed insurgency in Latin America with its myths and realities,“ he added. Senator Iván Cepeda, who is part of the government delegation, informed that on that date ”the agreements on the first three points of the peace agenda must be signed“ and that this would give ”a perspective of seeing peace signed with the ELN before the end of that year“. He was referring to the agenda agreed upon in the previous round of talks in Mexico, which includes the following items: participation of society in peace, democracy for peace, transformations for peace, victims, end of the armed conflict, and execution of the agreements. Despite the ceasefire, there are still sensitive issues that remain unresolved, such as the illegal means of financing the armed group. In statements to the press, Pablo Beltrán clarified that kidnapping and extortion are not included among the actions covered by the ceasefire. ”If they take one spoon from you, they have to give you another,” he said. The ELN chief negotiator explained that 12 agreed offensive actions will be restricted as of July 6 and that until August 3 protocols should be agreed to cover financing actions. A third point of the so-called Cuba Agreement establishes a Fourth Cycle of the Dialogue Table, in Venezuela, between August 14 and September 4, to review the actual progress of the current understanding. The agreement also contemplates the creation of a National Participation Committee to convene since July 25. Both parties also agreed to activate a communication channel between them, plus the drafting of pending protocols, the beginning of educational activities, and the implementation of monitoring and verification mechanisms for the ceasefire. The ELN, founded in 1964, had some 6,000 fighters in 2022, according to Colombian authorities, and is considered the oldest active guerrilla group in Latin America. Dialogue with the ELN was initiated in March 2016 by the administration of Juan Manuel Santos and after four cycles of negotiations in Quito, the talks moved to Cuba after the Ecuadorian government withdrew from the process. The talks were suspended in January 2019 by then-President Ivan Duque, following a rebel attack on a police academy. Petro's government opened a second round of negotiations with the ELN in Mexico last February, and since May 2 the third round has been in session in Havana. Cuba hosted, in 2016, the signing of a peace and political reintegration agreement between the Santos government and the insurgent Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), after a long negotiation in the Cuban capital. Commenting for this story is now closed. If you have a Facebook account, become a fan and comment on our Facebook Page!


--- [Colombian peace process] ---
The Colombian peace process refers to the negotiations between the Government of Colombia under President Juan Manuel Santos and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC–EP) aimed at ending the decades-long  Colombian conflict. These talks culminated in the Final Peace Agreement between the Government of Colombia and the FARC-EP. Formal negotiations began in September 2012 and were primarily held in Havana, Cuba.
On August 24, 2016, negotiators announced a final agreement to end the conflict and build a lasting peace. President Santos and FARC commander-in-chief Rodrigo Londoño, also known as Timoleón Jiménez or Timochenko, publicly signed the first peace accord. Londoño had assumed leadership of the FARC in 2011 following the death of Guillermo León Sáenz (Alfonso Cano). Both leaders, along with other participants, wore white in a symbolic gesture of peace during the signing ceremony. At the event, Londoño issued a public apology, stating: “We are being reborn to launch a new era of reconciliation and of building peace.” The ceremony was witnessed by nearly one million Colombians and covered by hundreds of news outlets.
However, the agreement was narrowly rejected in a national referendum held on October 2, 2016, with 50.2% voting against and 49.8% in favor.
Sergio Jaramillo Caro, former Vice Minister of Human Rights and International Affairs, led the government’s negotiating team. Reflecting on the process, he stated: “All the hard work of six years was hanging by a thread. We went back to what had worked for us—a robust methodology and a capacity to engage.”
A revised peace agreement was signed on November 24, 2016, and instead of holding another referendum, the government submitted it to the Congress of Colombia for ratification. Both houses of Congress ratified the new agreement on November 29 and 30, officially ending the conflict.
