=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[This Is Who We Are: Miya Masaoka - School of the Arts]
No snippet
URL: https://arts.columbia.edu/news/who-we-are-miya-masaoka#:~:text=Born%20in%20Washington%20D.C.%2C%20she,camp%20during%20World%20War%20II.

[Miya Masaoka]
Early life and education. Masaoka began studying classical music at eight years old. In her early 20s, she moved to Paris, France, and upon returning to the US ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miya_Masaoka

[Grokipedia: Miya Masaoka]
Learn more about Miya Masaoka on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/Miya_Masaoka

[Miya Masaoka - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 1, 2024 · Miya masaoka warsaw the factories Early life and education She began studying classical music at 8 years old. In her early twenties, she moved to Paris, France, and upon returning to the USA, she enrolled at San Francisco State, and received her BA in Music, magna cum laude, where she studied with Wayne Peterson and Eric Moe.
URL: https://alchetron.com/Miya-Masaoka

[Miya Masaoka Facts for Kids]
Miya Masaoka started learning classical music when she was eight years old. When she was in her early twenties, she moved to Paris, France. After returning ...
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Miya_Masaoka


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [This Is Who We Are: Miya Masaoka - School of the Arts] ---
This Is Who We Are: Miya Masaoka This Is Who We Are is a series featuring Columbia School of the Arts’ professors, covering careers, pedagogy, and art-making. Here, we talk with Associate Professor of Visual Arts and Director of Sound Art Miya Masaoka about the tension between tradition and innovation, her reasons for not referring to her students as "students," and why artists should always be on the lookout for new challenges. Associate Professor and Director of Sound Art Miya Masaoka asked me about the sound quality of our Zoom call. “Don’t you think it is messy?” Masaoka was quick to point out the fact that three years into COVID-19, most of us have still not worked out a good sound system for the calls. But before I could tell her that I could hear her well, she launched into a description of her new exciting endeavor. “I’m working on a new project of iteration with living plants and the physiological response a plant has when someone touches the leaves and how you can measure the response in volts,” she said. “But can you hear me well?” Masaoka is the living definition of a multidisciplinary artist. Whether recording inside a plant or the human body, within architecturally resonant spaces or outdoor canyons, her work operates at the intersection of spatialized sound, frequency, and perception. She is drawn, she said, to contradictions that feed the paradox of the contemporary condition. “I’m moved by the sounds and energy of the natural world.” Masaoka's musical journey is deeply influenced by her background and her intricate web of cultural experiences. Born in Washington D.C., she was introduced to classical music at the age of eight, inspired by her mother who played the violin. Remarkably, her mother had studied with Japanese violin teachers while confined in a Japanese-American concentration camp during World War II. The multicultural essence of Masaoka's life extends beyond just music. She is fluent in six languages, and this linguistic dexterity connects with her understanding of rhythm and melody in music. “There’s a relationship between the melody and the rhythm with prepositions, verbs, and conjugation of verbs, so my interest in listening to sound is also connected to my interest in words and languages,” she said. In her early 20s, Masaoka moved to Paris, where she taught improvisation on the piano. She realized she wanted to study sound more closely when she came back to the US. In California, Masaoka graduated with a BA in Music, magna cum laude, from San Francisco State University. In 1994, she earned her MA in Music Composition at Mills College, where she encountered a significant influence – Alvin Curran, who had studied with the great American composer Elliott Carter. “Curran left a mark on me. He was part of a very different generation,” she said. “I learned that different eras produce distinct artists, influenced by the context in which they create. It is a basic lesson that as an artist you need to assimilate soon so you understand that you are a product of your time.” Throughout her career, Masaoka has seamlessly blended traditional and avant-garde music. Central to her repertoire are the koto and ichigenkin, traditional Japanese string instruments. She often merges these with hybrid acoustic-electric performances. Her diverse work also involves composing new Noh music, instrument building, and wearable computing. I asked her if there was a particular moment in her life when she decided to move beyond the classical. “It is more of a back and forth. As an artist, you are jumping around and it is a messy line,” she said. “Probably that tension existed when I was a younger artist. At a certain point in your career, especially if you have a classical background, everything is integrated into your psyche. In the past, there was more pressure to be a traditional artist. In my career, that’s not a tension anymore. But an artist’s life consists of creating new tensions all the time.” “I learned that different eras produce distinct artists, influenced by the context in which they create. It is a basic lesson that as an artist you need to assimilate soon so you understand that you are a product of your time.” A notable aspect of her work is the exploration of space in a conceptual sense, a theme she delved into during her recent year at the American Academy of Rome, after she won the prestigious Rome Prize. "I was intrigued by how artists during the late Medieval and Renaissance periods conceived of sound and space," she said. "During the Renaissance, this relationship held a different significance. Piero della Francesca, a painter from the 15th century, is credited for developing the first three-dimensional background in frescoes and paintings. Leonardo da Vinci would incorporate it decades later. This was a concept that all of a sudden everybody was doing. It is useful to understand how this linear space is the invention of that period, and how we are also inventing new concepts of space all the time and how sound inhabits space.” Building on these insights, Masaoka introduced a new composition for EMPAC’s Wave Field Synthesis array in Upstate New York last December, focusing on her studies in spatial sound. She aimed to link these ideas of space with the modern possibilities of sound in today's world. “It was a way of creating and synthesizing a new way of experiencing sound in this artificial environment, which we call a room.” When I asked Masaoka about the Sound Art Program, where she serves as Director, her eyes lit up with evident pride. Miya explained that in Sound Art, faculty and students explore the relationship between spatial and sound dynamics. It all started when the Visual Arts Program realized how composers were increasingly leaning into installations. “From that trend emerged a Sound Art Program with more emphasis on installations that treated sound as an organic material, thinking of sound as waves," she said, "and then turning it into an art form.” The Sound Art Program's work orbits around the rich history of sound, evolving and deepening over the two years students are in the program. Students not only navigate the discipline of sound but also exercise a considerable degree of interpretative freedom—be it in how they perceive sound or how they project it in varied spaces. In Masaoka's perspective, sound art emerges as an innovative and overlapping field. It melds with music, sculpture, and even architecture. “The beauty of the field is the lack of sharp boundaries and the adaptability and permeability characterizing it,” she said. Discussing the future trajectory of sound art, Masaoka spoke with enthusiasm about emerging fields: artificial intelligence, virtual reality, and augmented reality. The best thing about sound art, Masaoka shared, is that because it is relatively new, it is not prescribed to boundaries or “canons.” “In the earlier days of sound art, 15 years ago, there were different sound theorists who wanted to be the gatekeepers,” she said, “saying what was sound art and what was not. 'Sound art can only be sound, it cannot be sculpture with sound'. Every point there had a kernel of legitimacy, but as the decades went by, the discipline became more fluid, allowing you to be more creative and fresh.” I was curious: Does guiding students with new ideas and diverse backgrounds shape her own artistic concepts? Masaoka's response was forthright. “I don’t think of my students as students. They are artists, and I call them artists,” she said. She concluded with a sentiment that sounded more like encouragement for artists everywhere: “It is important, from day one, to believe in what you are doing. The artists are always so different, which makes everything even more creative. That diversity of ideas and experiences creates an environment where everyone feeds off each other.” Masaoka’s work has been exhibited nationally and internationally, including the Venice Biennale, MoMA PS1, Institute of Contemporary Art Philadelphia, and the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago. Masaoka has taught at New York University, Bard College (since 2003). In 2017, her installation “Vaginated Chairs” was shown as the Kunstmuseum Bonn, and in 2018 she premiered work for the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra and Glasgow Chamber Choir. Masaoka has created a new chamber Noh opera, and is a Park Avenue Armory Studio Artist for 2019. She has a Duo CD with Anthony Braxton, a Trio with Zeena Parkins and Myra Melford.


--- [Miya Masaoka] ---
Miya Masaoka (born 1958, Washington, D.C.) is an American composer, musician, and sound artist active in the field of contemporary classical music and experimental music. Her work encompasses contemporary classical composition, improvisation, electroacoustic music, inter-disciplinary sound art, sound installation, traditional Japanese instruments, and performance art. She is based in New York City.
Masaoka often performs on a 21-string Japanese koto (musical instrument), which she extends with software processing, string preparations, and bowing. She has created performance works and installations incorporating plants, live insects, and sensor technology. Her full-length ballet was performed at the Venice Biennale 2004. She has been awarded the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship (2021), the Doris Duke Award (2013) and the Herb Alpert Award (2004), and a Fulbright Fellowship for advanced research for Noh, gagaku and the ichi gen kin.  She is an associate professor in the MFA Visual Arts Department at Columbia University, and the director of the MFA Sound Art Program.


--- [Grokipedia: Miya Masaoka] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Miya Masaoka - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Miya Masaoka is based in New York City (born 1958, Washington, DC) and is an American composer, musician, and sound artist active in the field of experimental music. Her work encompasses contemporary classical composition, improvisation, electroacoustic music, traditional Japanese instruments, and performance art. Her full-length ballet was performed at the Venice Biennale 2004. She is the recipient of the Core Fulbright Scholarship for Japan, 2016. She often performs on a 21-string Japanese koto (musical instrument) koto, which she extends with software processing, string preparations, and bowing. Masaoka has created performance works and installations incorporating plants, live insects, and sensor technology. Miya masaoka warsaw the factories Early life and education She began studying classical music at 8 years old. In her early twenties, she moved to Paris, France, and upon returning to the USA, she enrolled at San Francisco State, and received her BA in Music, magna cum laude, where she studied with Wayne Peterson and Eric Moe. She holds an MA from Mills College where she received the Faculty Award in Music Composition. Her teachers included Alvin Curran, Maryanne Amacher and David Tudor. Biography Masaoka’s work spans many genres and media. She has created works for voice, orchestra, installations, electronics and film shorts. She has sewn and soldered handmade responsive garments (LED KIMONO) and mapped the movement of insects and response of plants and brain activity to sound (Pieces For Plants, The Sound of Naked Men, Thinking Sounds) Her works have been commissioned and premiered by Bang on a Can, So Percussion, Either/Or, Kathleen Supove, Joan Jeanrenaud, SF Sound, Volti, Rova Saxophone Quartet, Alonzo King’s Ballet, The Del Sol String Quartet and others. Her orchestral work “Other Mountain” was selected for a reading by JCOI Earshot for the La Jolla Symphony 2013. She founded and directed the San Francisco Gagaku Society (1989-1996) under the tutelage of Master Suenobu Togi, a former Japanese Imperial Court musician who traced his gagaku lineage more than 1000 years to the Tang Dynasty. Her love of nature and resonant outdoor space led her to record the migrating birds in the deep and naturally resonant canyons near the San Diego Airport, resulting in the work “For Birds, Planes and Cello,” written for Joan Jeanrenaud, formerly of Kronos Quartet. “While I Was Walking, I Heard a Sound” is scored for 120 singers, spatialized in balconies of the concert hall. During one movement, three choirs and 9 opera singers are making bird calls and environmental sounds. Masaoka describes herself, saying, “I am deeply moved by the sounds and kinetic energy of the natural world. People, history, memory, this geography and soundscape of nature and culture --from our human heart beat to the rhythms of the moon and oceans-- how infinitely complex yet so fundamental.” She initiated and founded the San Francisco Electronic Music Festival in 1999. In 2004, Masaoka received an Alpert Award in the Arts, and she previously was given a National Endowment for the Arts and a Wallace Alexander Gerbode Award. The New York Times describes her solo performances as “exploring the extremes of her instrument,” and The Wire describes her own compositions as “magnificent…virtuosic…essential music…” She has been a faculty member at the Milton Avery Graduate Program at Bard College in Music/Sound since 2002, and has taught music composition at NYU. She received the Doris Duke Performing Artist Award in 2013, and a Fulbright Scholarship for Japan, 2016. Works Symphony Orchestra Other Mountain (2013) Creative Orchestra What is the Difference Between Stripping and Playing the Violin? (2 vlns, elec. bass, acoustic bass, elec. gtr, Asian instruments, turntable, electronics, saxophones, 2 drummers) (1997) Off a Craggy Cliff, 2 large telematic ensembles (non-specific instrumentation) (2009) Jagged Pyramid, large ensemble (non-specific instrumentation) (2009) Choral Works While I Was Walking, I Heard a Sound…” 3 a cappella choirs, 9 soloists (2003) Large Ensemble: 7 or more players Twenty Four Thousand Years is Forever, chamber orchestra and tape; 2 shengs, 2 saxophones, clarinet, percussion, 2 violins, cello, bass, koto (1997) Dark Passages, a multi media oratorio, readers, string quartet, Buddhist chanters, actors, projected slides, video (1998) What is the Sound of Naked Asian Men?, 8 musicians and streaming brain wave data, video projection (2001) Chironomy, 5 players in 2 groups. clarinet, vocalist, synthesizer in group 1, 2 computers in Group 2, streaming audio and projected video of children's hands gesturing (2006) Pieces for Plants, plants, EEG sensors, computer, (plant with sensors on leaves; data response is interpreted through sound (2007) The Long Road, string quartet, percussion, koto, analog modular synthesis (2013) Works for 2-6 players Spirit of Goze, taiko, piano, koto (1990) Ancient Art, tabla, flute, cello, 13 str koto (1991) For Sho, Bassoon and Koto (1994) The Wanderer and the Firefly; five hichi ricki and snare drum (1994) Butterfly Logic, 4 percussionists, amplified metal percussion (2008) LED Kimono, electronics, reader, dancer, custom designed and built responsive wearable electronics (2009) Swimming Through Madness, duo 13 str. kotos (2010) Warsaw, violin, cello, 2 vocalists, video projections, koto (2011) Stemming, 1-4 players. Tuning forks, multi channel speakers (2011) The Dust and the Noise, piano, percussion, violin, cello (2013) Survival, string quartet (2013) The Clattering of Life, string quartet and improvising trio (2013) Tilt, string quartet #2 (2015) Solo Topaz Refractions, 21 str koto (1990) Unearthed/Unbound, 21 str koto (1992) Tripped, clarinet (1994) Ritual for Giant Hissing Madagascar Cockroaches, performer, laser beams, interactive software, cockroaches. (Roaches’ movement interrupts sensors triggering audio samples of their hissing sounds) (1995-98) Three Sounds of Tea, koto and electronics (1998) Bee Project #1, koto, violin, percussion and live, amplified bees projected video (1996) Music For Mouths, 4 saxophones (1999) For Birds, Planes and Cello, cello, field recording (tape) (2004) Things in an Open Field, Laser Koto and electronics (2006) Balls, piano, Disclavier, ping-pong balls (2007) A Crack in Your Thoughts, koto and electronics (2012) Untitled, Bass solo (2015) For Dance Clytemnestra, solo koto with metal, paper preparations (1993) Koto, a full-length ballet, koto and tape (2004) Installations/Exhibitions The Black Room, collaboration with poet Richard Oyama…(1988) Koto in the Sky, Interactive installation, with lasers beamed across two buildings over an alley triggered with broomsticks from fire escapes (2000) Pieces for Plants #5, an interactive sound installation for houseplant, electrodes, computer and audience interaction (2001) Inner Koto, Multi Channel sound installation, The Kitchen, NYC, The Winter Olympics, Torino, Italy (group show) (2005-7) Between Thought and Sound: Graphic Notation in Contemporary Art, Group Show (2007) Minetta Creek, Judson Church, NYC, multi-channel sound (2008) Partials of Sound, of Light, Multi channel sound installation (2013–14) Discography Portrait Recordings Compositions Improvisations (1994, Asian Improv Records) (debut solo CD with James Newton, Frank Holder) What is the Difference Between Stripping and Playing the Violin? (1998, Victo) The Masaoka Orchestra, Masaoka conducts; Kei Yamashita, Jeff Lukas, Lee Yen, Carla Kihlstedt, Liberty Ellman, India Cooke, Francis Wong, Hafez Hadirzadeh, Toyoji Tomita, Robbie Kauker, Sciobhan Brooks, Glen Horiuchi, Vijay Iyer, George Lewis, Trevor Dunn, Mark Izu, Liu Qi Chao, Anthony Brown, Elliot Humberto Kavee, Thomas Day, Patty Liu, DJ Mariko + others For Birds, Planes and Cello (2004, Solitary B) Composed by Masaoka for Joan Jeanrenaud While I Was Walking, I Heard a Sound… (2004, Solitary B) (for three a cappella choirs and 9 soloists spatialized in balconies with 120 singers, Volti, San Francisco Choral Society, Piedmont Eastbay Children's Choir) Amy X Neuburg, Randall Wong + others Collaborations Crepuscular Music (1996, Rastascan) (as a trio with Gino Robair, Tom Nunn) Séance (1996, VEX) (as a trio with Henry Kaiser, Danielle DeGruttola) Sliding (1998, Noise Asia) (duets with Jon Rose)" The Usual Turmoil (1998, Music and Arts) (duets with George Lewis) Guerrilla Mosaics (1999, 482 Music) (as a trio with John Butcher, Gino Robair) Saturn’s Finger (1999, Buzz Records) (as a trio with Fred Frith, Larry Ochs) Digital Wildlife (2000, Winter + Winter) (as a trio with Fred Frith Larry Ochs) Illuminations (2003, Rastascan Records) (as a trio with Peter Kowald, Gino Robair) Klang. Farbe. Melodie (2004, 482 Music) (as a quartet with Biggi Vinkeloe, George Cremaschi, Gino Robair) Fly, Fly, Fly (2004, Intakt Records) (as a trio with Larry Ochs, Joan Jeanrenaud)'


--- [Miya Masaoka Facts for Kids] ---
Miya Masaoka facts for kids Quick facts for kids Miya Masaoka | | |---|---| | Masaoka (c. 2003) | | | Born | 1958 (age 67–68) Washington, D.C., U.S. | | Education | San Francisco State University, Mills College | | Known for | Sound art, musical composition | Miya Masaoka (born in 1958 in Washington, D.C.) is an American composer, musician, and sound artist. She creates unique music and art using sounds. Her work mixes different styles, including modern classical music, experimental sounds, and traditional Japanese instruments. She lives and works in New York City. Masaoka often plays a special 21-string Japanese instrument called a koto. She makes its sound even more interesting by using computer software, preparing the strings in different ways, and even bowing them like a cello. She has also created art pieces and performances that use plants, live insects, and special sensor technology. In 2004, her full-length ballet was shown at the Venice Biennale, a famous art event. Miya Masaoka has received many important awards for her work. These include the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship in 2021, the Doris Duke Award in 2013, and the Herb Alpert Award in 2004. She also received a Fulbright Fellowship to study traditional Japanese music and theater. Today, she is a professor at Columbia University, where she teaches visual arts and directs the Sound Art Program. Contents Early Life and Education Miya Masaoka started learning classical music when she was eight years old. When she was in her early twenties, she moved to Paris, France. After returning to the United States, she studied music at San Francisco State University. She earned her Bachelor of Arts degree with high honors. Later, she received her Master of Arts degree from Mills College, where she also won an award for her music compositions. About Miya Masaoka's Work Masaoka's art covers many different types of music and media. She has composed pieces for voices, orchestras, and even short films. She has also made special clothes with lights (called LED KIMONO) that respond to movement. She has even explored how insects move, how plants react, and how brain activity can create sounds in her art pieces. Many groups and artists have asked her to create new works for them. These include famous names like Bang on a Can and Alonzo King’s Ballet. Her orchestral piece, "Other Mountain," was chosen for a special performance in 2013. From 1989 to 1996, Miya Masaoka led the San Francisco Gagaku Society. Gagaku is a very old type of Japanese court music, with a history going back over 1000 years. She learned this traditional music from Master Suenobu Togi, who was a musician in the Japanese Imperial Court. Masaoka loves nature and open spaces. This love inspired her to record migrating birds in canyons near the San Diego Airport. This recording became part of her work "For Birds, Planes and Cello." Another piece, "While I Was Walking, I Heard a Sound," was written for 120 singers. In one part of this piece, three choirs and nine opera singers make sounds like bird calls and other nature sounds. As a koto player, she often improvises, which means she makes up music on the spot. She has performed and recorded with many famous musicians, including Pharoah Sanders, Pauline Oliveros, and Fred Frith. Masaoka describes her inspiration by saying, "I am deeply moved by the sounds and energy of the natural world. People, history, memory, this geography and soundscape of nature and culture -- from our human heart beat to the rhythms of the moon and oceans -- how infinitely complex yet so fundamental." In 1999, she started the San Francisco Electronic Music Festival. This festival brings together artists who create music using electronic sounds and technology. The New York Times newspaper has praised her solo performances, saying she explores "the extremes of her instrument." The Wire magazine described her own compositions as "magnificent" and "essential music." She has been a faculty member at Bard College since 2002 and has also taught music composition at New York University (NYU). Selected Works Miya Masaoka has created many different types of musical and sound art pieces. Here are a few examples: Orchestral and Large Ensemble Works - Other Mountain (2013): A piece for a symphony orchestra. - While I Was Walking, I Heard a Sound… (2003): Written for three choirs singing without instruments and nine solo singers. - Pieces for Plants (2007): An interactive sound piece where sensors on plant leaves create sounds based on the plant's responses. - The Long Road (2013): For a string quartet, percussion, koto, and an analog synthesizer. Works for Smaller Groups and Solo Performances - Spirit of Goze (1990): For taiko drums, piano, and koto. - LED Kimono (2009): A performance piece featuring a dancer wearing special clothes with lights that respond to movement. - Swimming Through Madness (2010): A duet for two 13-string kotos. - Ritual for Giant Hissing Madagascar Cockroaches (1995-98): A unique solo performance where the movement of cockroaches triggers sounds of their hissing. - For Birds, Planes and Cello (2004): For cello and recorded sounds from nature. Works for Dance - Koto (2004): A full-length ballet featuring the koto and recorded music. Installations and Exhibitions - Koto in the Sky (2000): An interactive art installation where lasers beam across buildings, triggered by broomsticks from fire escapes. - Inner Koto (2005-7): A multi-channel sound installation shown in places like The Kitchen in NYC and the Winter Olympics in Italy. Discography (Recordings) Miya Masaoka has released many recordings of her music, both as a solo artist and in collaboration with others. Solo and Group Recordings - Compositions Improvisations (1994): Her first solo CD. - Monk's Japanese Folksong (1998): A recording with her trio. - For Birds, Planes and Cello (2004): A recording of her piece for cello and field recordings. - While I Was Walking, I Heard a Sound… (2004): Features 120 singers performing her choral work. Collaborations She has also recorded with many other musicians, creating unique sounds together. Some of these recordings include: - Séance (1996): With Henry Kaiser and Danielle DeGruttola. - The Usual Turmoil (1998): Duets with George E. Lewis. - Digital Wildlife (2000): With Fred Frith and Larry Ochs. - Duets with Accordion and Koto (2008): With Pauline Oliveros. As a Performer Miya Masaoka is also a talented performer who has played with many different artists and groups. She has performed with jazz musicians like Steve Coleman and Toshiko Akiyoshi, and experimental artists like Christian Wolff and David Toop. Films - 1999 – L. Subramaniam: Violin From the Heart: This film includes a scene where Masaoka performs with L. Subramaniam. - 2010 – The Reach of Resonance: A film directed by Steve Elkins. See also In Spanish: Miya Masaoka para niños - Koto
