=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[10 Things to Know About Salvador Dalí - Artsper Magazine]
Oct 24, 2025 · 1936: Dalí takes part in the London International Surrealist Exhibition. 1936: First solo London exhibition is held in the Alex, Reid and Lefevre Gallery in the same year.
URL: https://blog.artsper.com/en/a-closer-look/things-to-know-about-salvador-dali/

[London International Surrealist Exhibition - Wikipedia]
1 July - Salvador Dalí - Fantômes paranoïaques authentiques. The most iconic image of the exhibition is the opening day performance of Sheila Legge, who stood in the middle of Trafalgar Square, posing in a white, drop tail hemmed wedding dress ensemble inspired by a Salvador Dalí painting, with her head completely obscured by a flower ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_International_Surrealist_Exhibition

[Salvador Dalí]
Dalí's first solo London exhibition was held at the Alex, Reid, and Lefevre Gallery the same year. The show included twenty-nine paintings and eighteen ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvador_Dal%C3%AD

[Salvador Dalí | Wonderland Wiki | Fandom]
Dalí's first solo London exhibition was held at the Alex, Reid, and Lefevre Gallery the same year. The show included twenty-nine paintings and eighteen drawings.
URL: https://wonderland.fandom.com/wiki/Salvador_Dal%C3%AD

[From our archive | The International Surrealist Exhibition 1936]
Mar 6, 2023 · From our archive | The International Surrealist Exhibition 1936 Salvador Dalí in diving suit and helmet with Paul and Nusch Eluard, ELT Mesens, Diana Brinton Lee and Rupert Lee, 1936 In this blog we re-live the moment in 1936 when Surrealism arrived on British shores, in the form of the International Surrealist Exhibition.
URL: https://www.nationalgalleries.org/art-and-artists/features/our-archive-international-surrealist-exhibition-1936


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [10 Things to Know About Salvador Dalí - Artsper Magazine] ---
No content


--- [London International Surrealist Exhibition - Wikipedia] ---
The International Surrealist Exhibition was held from 11 June to 4 July 1936 at the New Burlington Galleries, near Savile Row in London's Mayfair, England.


--- [Salvador Dalí] ---
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech, Marquess of Dalí de Púbol (11 May 1904 – 23 January 1989), known as Salvador Dalí, was a Spanish surrealist artist renowned for his technical skill, precise draftsmanship, and the striking and bizarre images in his work. 
Born in Figueres in Catalonia, Dalí received his formal education in fine arts in Madrid. Influenced by Impressionism and the Renaissance masters from a young age, he became increasingly attracted to Cubism and avant-garde movements. He moved closer to Surrealism in the late 1920s and joined the Surrealist group in 1929, soon becoming one of its leading exponents. His best-known work, The Persistence of Memory, was completed in August 1931. Dalí lived in France throughout the Spanish Civil War (1936 to 1939) before leaving for the United States in 1940 where he achieved commercial success. He returned to Spain in 1948 where he announced his return to the Catholic faith and developed his "nuclear mysticism" style, based on his interest in classicism, mysticism, and recent scientific developments.
Dalí's artistic repertoire included painting, sculpture, film, graphic arts, animation, fashion, and photography, at times in collaboration with other artists. He also wrote fiction, poetry, autobiography, essays, and criticism. Major themes in his work include dreams, the subconscious, sexuality, religion, science and his closest personal relationships. To the dismay of those who held his work in high regard, and to the irritation of his critics, his eccentric and ostentatious public behavior often drew more attention than his artwork. His public support for the Francoist regime, his commercial activities and the quality and authenticity of some of his late works have also been controversial. His life and work were an important influence on other Surrealists, pop art, popular culture, and contemporary artists such as Jeff Koons and Damien Hirst.
There are two major museums devoted to Salvador Dalí's work: the Dalí Theatre-Museum in Figueres, Spain, and the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, U.S.


--- [Salvador Dalí | Wonderland Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [From our archive | The International Surrealist Exhibition 1936] ---
In this blog we re-live the moment in 1936 when Surrealism arrived on British shores, in the form of the International Surrealist Exhibition. The exhibition is fully documented in the Roland Penrose Archive, which contains correspondence, installation photographs and snapshots of events, hanging plans, minutes of meetings, catalogues, cards, typescripts of lectures, and news cuttings. Surrealism arrived in Britain later than in the rest of Europe. It erupted onto the scene in the form of the International Surrealist Exhibition, which opened at 3pm on 11 June 1936, at the New Burlington Galleries in Burlington Gardens, behind the Royal Academy in London. The prime movers behind the show were David Gascoyne, a nineteen-year-old English poet and author of A Short Survey of Surrealism, 1935, and Roland Penrose, artist, collector and friend of the Surrealists in Paris. Penrose and Gascoyne met in Paris in or shortly after July 1935, when they were introduced by their mutual friend Paul Eluard. Together, the English pair resolved to bring Surrealism to Britain. The task of organising fell largely to these two, together with the critic and poet Herbert Read. The show was of course discussed with André Breton and Paul Eluard, and a London committee was formed, consisting also of Humphrey Jennings, Henry Moore, Rupert Lee, Diana Brinton Lee, Hugh Sykes Davies and Paul Nash. The selection of work by British artists was difficult as no formal British Surrealist group existed. The consequence was that the work of artists such as Eileen Agar and Graham Sutherland - who had not thought of themselves as Surrealists - was included in the show alongside work by Penrose, Moore and Nash, whose work could be more closely associated with Surrealism. Max Ernst designed the poster, and a programme of lectures, debates and poetry readings was arranged to accompany the show. A parallel French committee of Breton, Eluard, Man Ray and Georges Hugnet, together with the Belgian ELT Mesens, selected works by non-British artists such as Dalí, Miró, Duchamp, Ernst, Picasso and Magritte. In the months before the opening, Penrose shuttled between London and Paris, arranging loans with the artists and collectors. Over 390 paintings, sculptures and objects by sixty-eight artists were selected. Works were hung in double or triple rows, alternating large and small paintings, so that the viewer had to step forward and back to view them. Ethnographic sculptures and found objects were interspersed throughout. Penrose documented the exhibition in a scrapbook which combines installation photographs with annotated sketches of the hang. The exhibition opening attracted over 1,150 people who listened to an introductory speech by André Breton. Salvador Dalí attempted to deliver a lecture whilst wearing a deep-sea diver's suit and holding two hounds on a leash. Dramatically, he nearly suffocated and had to be released from his helmet with a spanner. During its three-week run the exhibition attracted over 23,000 visitors and considerable attention from the British press. The Roland Penrose archive contains a number of press clippings which show the response of the press, both to the exhibition and in particular to the efforts of Sheila Legge in promoting the exhibition. Dressed as the Phantom of Surrealism, her head entirely covered by a mask of flowers, Legge posed for photographs among the pigeons in Trafalgar Square. She then headed to the New Burlington Galleries where she wandered around the exhibition holding either a pork chop or a prosthetic leg. A British Surrealist group was formed in response to the show and their work was selected for subsequent Surrealist exhibitions in New York, Paris, and Tokyo. The group continued to meet, exhibit and write until it eventually broke apart in 1946. The artworks and material used in this blog are just some of the treasures contained within our archives. They can be viewed by appointment in the Reading Room at Modern Two. This text was adapted from the National Galleries of Scotland publication Another World.
