=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Rudi Dekkers - Wikipedia]
Rudi Dekkers (July 27, 1956 - April 11, 2024) was aDutchbusinessmanandconvicteddrugtrafficker.Theformer owner of Huffman Aviation (a flight school in Venice, Florida), he became the subject of worldwide attention after the September 11 attacks when it was revealed Dekkers hadtrainedtwoofthehijackers— Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi —whocrashed American Airlines Flight 11 ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rudi_Dekkers

[Rudi Dekkers - Wikiwand]
Rudi Dekkers (July 27, 1956 - April 11, 2024) was aDutchbusinessmanandconvicteddrugtrafficker.Theformer owner of Huffman Aviation (a flight school in Venice, Florida), he became the subject of worldwide attention after the September 11 attacks when it was revealed Dekkers hadtrainedtwoofthehijackers— Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi —whocrashed American Airlines Flight 11 ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Rudi_Dekkers

[How The Life Of This Unlucky Dutch Businessman Changed When ... - Sporcle]
For the word puzzle clue of how the life of this unluckydutchbusinessmanchanged when it was revealed thattwoofthehijackers in the september 11 attacks were his former flight students, the Sporcle Puzzle Library found the following results. Explore more crossword clues and answers by clicking on the results or quizzes.
URL: https://www.sporcle.com/reference/clue/how-the-life-of-this-unlucky-dutch-businessman-changed-when-it-was-revealed-that-two-of-the-hijackers-in-the-september-11-attacks-were-his-former-flight-students

[September 11 Hijackers Fast Facts - CNN]
Read CNN's Fast Facts on the 19 hijackers of September 11, 2001, and learn more about the individuals involved in this terroristic attack.
URL: https://www.cnn.com/us/september-11th-hijackers-fast-facts

[The FBI Releases 19 Photographs of Individuals Believed to be the ...]
Home • News • Press Room • Press Releases • The FBI Releases 19 Photographs of Individuals Believed to be the Hijackers of the Four Airliners that Crashed on...
URL: https://archives.fbi.gov/archives/news/pressrel/press-releases/the-fbi-releases-19-photographs-of-individuals-believed-to-be-the-hijackers


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Rudi Dekkers - Wikipedia] ---
Rudi Dekkers (July 27, 1956 – April 11, 2024) was a Dutch businessman and convicted drug trafficker. The former owner of Huffman Aviation (a flight school in Venice, Florida), he became the subject of worldwide attention after the September 11 attacks when it was revealed Dekkers had trained two of the hijackers—Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi—who crashed American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, respectively, into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center.


--- [Rudi Dekkers - Wikiwand] ---
No content


--- [How The Life Of This Unlucky Dutch Businessman Changed When ... - Sporcle] ---
No content


--- [September 11 Hijackers Fast Facts - CNN] ---
Here is a look at the 19 hijackers of September 11, 2001. Timeline September 11, 2001 - Nineteen men hijack four commercial airlines loaded with fuel for cross country flights, to carry out a terrorist attack on the United States orchestrated by al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. – 8:46 a.m. ET (approx.) - American Airlines Flight 11 (traveling from Boston to Los Angeles) strikes the North Tower of the World Trade Center in New York City. The plane is piloted by plot leader Mohamed Atta. – 9:03 a.m. ET (approx.) - United Airlines Flight 175 (traveling from Boston to Los Angeles) strikes the South Tower of the World Trade Center in New York City. The plane is piloted by hijacker Marwan al Shehhi. – 9:37 a.m. ET (approx.) - American Airlines Flight 77 (traveling from Dulles, Virginia, to Los Angeles) strikes the Pentagon Building in Washington. The plane is piloted by hijacker Hani Hanjour. – 10:03 a.m. ET (approx.) - United Airlines Flight 93 (traveling from Newark, New Jersey, to San Francisco) crashes in a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. The plane is piloted by hijacker Ziad Jarrah. Hijackers by Airplane American Airlines Flight 11 Mohamed Atta - Egypt, tactical leader of 9/11 plot and pilot Abdul Aziz al Omari - Saudi Arabia Wail al Shehri - Saudi Arabia Waleed al Shehri - Saudi Arabia Satam al Suqami - Saudi Arabia United Airlines Flight 175 Fayez Banihammad - United Arab Emirates Ahmed al Ghamdi - Saudi Arabia Hamza al Ghamdi - Saudi Arabia Marwan al Shehhi - United Arab Emirates, pilot Mohand al Shehri - Saudi Arabia American Airlines Flight 77 Hani Hanjour - Saudi Arabia, pilot Nawaf al Hazmi - Saudi Arabia Salem al Hazmi - Saudi Arabia Khalid al Mihdhar - Saudi Arabia Majed Moqed - Saudi Arabia United Airlines Flight 93 Saeed al Ghamdi - Saudi Arabia Ahmad al Haznawi - Saudi Arabia Ziad Jarrah - Lebanon, pilot Ahmed al Nami - Saudi Arabia Hijackers by Nationality Egypt Mohamed Atta Lebanon Ziad Jarrah Saudi Arabia Ahmed al Ghamdi Hamza al Ghamdi Saeed al Ghamdi Hani Hanjour Nawaf al Hazmi Salem al Hazmi Ahmad al Haznawi Ahmed al Nami Khalid al Mihdhar Majed Moqed Abdul Aziz al Omari Mohand al Shehri Wail al Shehri Waleed al Shehri Satam al Suqami United Arab Emirates Fayez Banihammad Marwan al Shehhi


--- [The FBI Releases 19 Photographs of Individuals Believed to be the ...] ---
The FBI Releases 19 Photographs of Individuals Believed to be the Hijackers of the Four Airliners that Crashed on September 11, 2001 | Washington, D.C. September 28, 2001 | View Photographs: American Airlines #11 | American Airlines #77 | United Airlines #93 | United Airlines #175 The Federal Bureau of Investigation is today releasing 19 photographs of individuals believed to be the hijackers of the four airliners that crashed on September 11, 2001, into the World Trade Center in New York, the Pentagon, and in Stony Creek Township, Pennsylvania. The FBI requests the public's assistance in obtaining more information about these individuals. It should be noted that attempts to confirm the true identities of these individuals are still under way. The FBI asks anyone who has ever seen or has information about these individuals to immediately contact the nearest FBI office or the toll free hotline number 1-866-483-5137 or submit information at www.ic3.gov. The photographs can be viewed at www.fbi.gov. AMERICAN AIRLINES #77 BOEING 757 1) Khalid Almihdhar - Possible Saudi national -Possible resident of San Diego, California, and New York -Alias: Sannan Al-Makki; Khalid Bin Muhammad; 'Addallah Al-Mihdhar; Khalid Mohammad Al-Saqaf 2) Majed Moqed - Possible Saudi national -Alias: Majed M.GH Moqed; Majed Moqed, Majed Mashaan Moqed 3) Nawaf Alhazmi - Possible Saudi national -Possible resident of Fort Lee, New Jersey; Wayne, New Jersey; San Diego, California -Alias: Nawaf Al-Hazmi; Nawaf Al Hazmi; Nawaf M.S. Al Hazmi 4) Salem Alhazmi - Possible Saudi national -Possible resident of Fort Lee, New Jersey; Wayne, New Jersey 5) Hani Hanjour - -Possible resident of Phoenix, Arizona, and San Diego, California -Alias: Hani Saleh Hanjour; Hani Saleh; Hani Hanjour, Hani Saleh H. Hanjour AMERICAN AIRLINES #11 BOEING 767 1) Satam M.A. Al Suqami- Possible Saudi national -Dates of birth used: June 28, 1976; Last known address: United Arab Emirates 2) Waleed M. Alshehri - Possible Saudi national -Dates of birth used: September 13, 1974; January 1, 1976; March 3, 1976; July 8, 1977; December 20, 1978; May 11, 1979; November 5, 1979 -Possible residence(s): Hollywood, Florida; Orlando, Florida; Daytona Beach, Florida -Believed to be a pilot 3) Wail M. Alshehri -Date of birth used: September 1, 1968 -Possible residence(s): Hollywood, Florida; Newton, Massachusetts -Believed to be a pilot 4) Mohamed Atta - Possible Egyptian national -Date of birth used: September 1, 1968 -Possible residence(s): Hollywood, Florida; Coral Springs, Florida; Hamburg, Germany -Believed to be a pilot -Alias: Mehan Atta; Mohammad El Amir; Muhammad Atta; Mohamed El Sayed; Mohamed Elsayed; Muhammad Muhammad Al Amir Awag Al Sayyid Atta; Muhammad Muhammad Al-Amir Awad Al Sayad 5) Abdulaziz Alomari - Possible Saudi national -Dates of birth used: December 24, 1972 and May 28, 1979 -Possible residence(s): Hollywood, Florida -Believed to be a pilot UNITED AIRLINES #175 BOEING 767 1) Marwan Al-Shehhi -Date of birth used: May 9, 1978 -Possible residence(s): Hollywood, Florida -Believed to be a pilot -Alias: Marwan Yusif Muhammad Rashid Al-Shehi; Marwan Yusif Muhammad Rashid Lakrab Al-Shihhi; Abu Abdullah 2) Fayez Rashid Ahmed Hassan Al Qadi Banihammad -Possible residence(s): Delray Beach, Florida -Alias: Fayez Ahmad; Banihammad Fayez Abu Dhabi Banihammad; Fayez Rashid Ahmed; Banihammad Fayez; Rasid Ahmed Hassen Alqadi; Abu Dhabi Banihammad Ahmed Fayez; Faez Ahmed 3) Ahmed Alghamdi -Alias: Ahmed Salah Alghamdi 4) Hamza Alghamdi -Possible residence(s): Delray Beach, Florida -Alias: Hamza Al-Ghamdi; Hamza Ghamdi; Hamzah Alghamdi; Hamza Alghamdi Saleh 5) Mohand Alshehri -Possible residence(s): Delray Beach, Florida -Alias: Mohammed Alshehhi; Mohamd Alshehri; Mohald Alshehri UNITED AIRLINES #93 BOEING 757 1) Saeed Alghamdi -Possible residence: Delray Beach, Florida -Alias: Abdul Rahman Saed Alghamdi; Ali S Alghamdi; Al- Gamdi; Saad M.S. Al Ghamdi; Sadda Al Ghamdi; Saheed Al-Ghamdi; Seed Al Ghamdi 2) Ahmed Ibrahim A. Al Haznawi - Possible Saudi national -Date of birth used: October 11, 1980 -Possible residence: Delray Beach, Florida -Alias: Ahmed Alhaznawi 3) Ahmed Alnami -Possible residence: Delray Beach, Florida -Alias: Ali Ahmed Alnami; Ahmed A. Al-Nami; Ahmed Al- Nawi 4) Ziad Samir Jarrah -Believed to be a pilot -Alias: Zaid Jarrahi; Zaid Samr Jarrah; Ziad S. Jarrah; Ziad Jarrah Jarrat, Ziad Samir Jarrahi
