=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Quainton Rd Station to London - 4 ways to travel via train, and line 16 bus]
However, you can walk to Railway Centre, take the line 16 bus to Aylesbury Bus Stn, walk to Aylesbury, then take the train to London Marylebone. Alternatively, you can take a vehicle from Quainton Rd Station to London Euston via Railway Centre, Aylesbury Bus Stn, Hemel Hempstead station, and Hemel Hempstead in around 2h 17m.
URL: https://www.rome2rio.com/s/Quainton-Rd-Station/London

[London to Quainton Rd Station - 4 ways to travel via train, bus]
How far is it from London to Quainton Rd Station? The distance between London and Quainton Rd Station is 47 miles. The road distance is 49.5 miles. Get ...
URL: https://www.rome2rio.com/s/London/Quainton-Rd-Station

[Quainton Road: The forgotten London Underground station nearly 50 miles ...]
Jun 20, 2022 · READ MORE: Quainton: The cute Buckinghamshire village with the county's tallest working windmill Situated around 44 miles from central London, Quainton Road station was once a crucial transport link. It was integral to the construction of Waddesdon Manor and was the busiest rural station on what would eventually become the Metropolitan Line.
URL: https://www.buckinghamshirelive.com/news/history/quainton-road-forgotten-london-underground-7221169

[Distance from Quainton Buckinghamshire Great Britain to London London ...]
Jan 30, 2026 · Calculate the driving distance and directions and get straight air line flying distance times between Quainton Buckinghamshire Great Britain → London London City Great Britain in mi or km with Distantias. Get fuel cost estimates, the midpoint, nearest rail stations, nearest airports, traffic and more
URL: https://www.distantias.com/distance-from-quainton-buckinghamshire-great_britain-to-london-great_britain.html

[Quainton Road railway station Map - Quainton, England, UK]
Quainton Road railway station was opened in 1868 in under-developed countryside near Quainton, in the English county of Buckinghamshire, 44 miles from London.
URL: https://mapcarta.com/N12871638367


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Quainton Rd Station to London - 4 ways to travel via train, and line 16 bus] ---
No content


--- [London to Quainton Rd Station - 4 ways to travel via train, bus] ---
No content


--- [Quainton Road: The forgotten London Underground station nearly 50 miles ...] ---
As much as one might complain about late trains or engineering works disrupting their journey, the London Underground system is an impressive piece of infrastructure. Thanks to three stations in Buckinghamshire, commuters face an easier journey into the capital on the Metropolitan Line. Journeys from Amersham and Chalfont and Latimer stations often serve those heading to London, while the Metropolitan Line also ends at Chesham. However, the Met Line services terminate at either Amersham or Chesham, never serving both. But long ago, the Metropolitan Line stretched out even further west of London. At one point, the service served beyond Aylesbury. READ MORE: Quainton: The cute Buckinghamshire village with the county's tallest working windmill Situated around 44 miles from central London, Quainton Road station was once a crucial transport link. It was integral to the construction of Waddesdon Manor and was the busiest rural station on what would eventually become the Metropolitan Line. Trains first began stopping at Quainton Road in 1868, as the Aylesbury & Buckingham Railway line took shape between the two towns. The 2nd Duke of Buckingham and Chandos used his influence to ensure the new route would run through Quainton, near his estates around Wotton. Years later, in 1873, the new Metropolitan Railway chairman Edward Watkin began negotiating to take control of the Aylesbury & Buckingham Railway. He revealed plans to extend the Metropolitan Railway, which was already the world's first underground passenger railway, to Aylesbury. But two years later Parliament rejected proposals to do so and Watkin had to wait until 1881 for consent. By 1894, the extension of the Metropolitan Railway was complete and a straight route from London to Aylesbury, then calling at Quainton Road, was in service. The Metropolitan Railway re-sited and rebuilt the station during an improvement programme. It was moved to the southeast of the road and had three platforms in total. Fast forward to 1933 and the Metropolitan Railway, along with the other underground railways in London - except for the Waterloo and City Railway - were taken into public ownership. This began the formation of the London Underground we know today. Despite being so far from London, Quainton Road became part of the London Underground - although all stations north of Aylesbury were never featured on the iconic Tube maps. But management of the new London Passenger Transport Board saw little future for Quainton Road, Brill and Verney Junction. Three years later, the Metropolitan services calling at Quainton Road were withdrawn on July 6, 1936. This ended the station's tenure as a significant junction. Over the following years, the remaining services were reduced save for a brief resurrection on the Metropolitan Line in 1943, when London Transport restored the station on the London to Aylesbury service. This lasted only five more years and Quainton Road closed to passengers on March 4, 1963 and to goods on July 4, 1966. The other closed stations on the old Metropolitan Railway line were demolished or sold but in 1969 the Quainton Railway Society began operating a museum on the site. A number of special services for shoppers were run via the station between 1984 and 1990. The Buckinghamshire Railway Centre now occupies the site, where steam trains run for tourists and train enthusiasts. It may not have lasted long as a Tube station but even after all it has been through, Quainton Road station still chugs along to this day. Read next


--- [Distance from Quainton Buckinghamshire Great Britain to London London ...] ---
No content


--- [Quainton Road railway station Map - Quainton, England, UK] ---
No content
