=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jacinda Ardern - Wikipedia]
Dame Jacinda Kate Laurell Ardern GNZM (/ ɑːrˈdɜːrn / ar-DURN; [1] born 26 July 1980) is a New Zealand politician and activist who was the 40th prime minister of New Zealand and leader of the Labour Party from 2017 to 2023.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacinda_Ardern

[Harvard awards seven honorary degrees]
May 26, 2022 — Ardern received the Gleitsman International Activist Award from the Harvard Kennedy School in 2020.
URL: https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2022/05/harvard-awards-seven-honorary-degrees-2/

[Jacinda Ardern taking up new role at Harvard University - MiNDFOOD]
Apr 26, 2023 · New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern receives an honorary Doctor of Laws degree during Harvard University's 371st Commencement Exercises in Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S., May 26, 2022. REUTERS/Brian Snyder Former Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has announced her first major role since resigning from career in New Zealand public service.
URL: https://www.mindfood.com/article/jacinda-ardern-taking-up-new-role-at-harvard-university/

[Harvard to honour Ardern with Honorary Degree]
Feb 25, 2022 · Harvard to honour Ardern with Honorary Degree Sourced Content Boston, Massachusetts, February 26, 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will be the Principal Speaker at Harvard’s 371st Commencement on May 26, 2022, the University has announced. Harvard President Larry Bacow said that Ms Ardern is one of the most respected leaders on the world stage and that the University is delighted that she
URL: https://indiannewslink.co.nz/harvard-to-honour-ardern-with-honorary-degree/

[Former New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to Join Harvard as ...]
Apr 26, 2023 · In 2022, Ardern delivered the address in the University’s 371st Commencement, where she received an honorary law degree. In 2020, she received the Gleitsman Activist Award from the HKS Center ...
URL: https://www.thecrimson.com/article/2023/4/26/jacinda-ardern-hks-hls-fellowships/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jacinda Ardern - Wikipedia] ---
Dame Jacinda Kate Laurell Ardern  ( ar-DURN; born 26 July 1980) is a New Zealand politician and activist who was the 40th prime minister of New Zealand and leader of the Labour Party from 2017 to 2023. She was a member of Parliament (MP) as a list MP from 2008 to 2017 and for Mount Albert from 2017 to 2023. 
Born and raised in Hamilton, Ardern grew up in Morrinsville and Murupara. She joined the New Zealand Labour Party at the age of 17. After graduating from the University of Waikato in 2001, Ardern worked as a researcher in the office of then-New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark. She later worked in London as an adviser in the Cabinet Office during Tony Blair's premiership. In 2008, Ardern was elected president of the International Union of Socialist Youth. Ardern was first elected as an MP in the 2008 general election, when Labour lost power after nine years. She was later elected to represent the Mount Albert electorate in a by-election on 25 February 2017.
Ardern was unanimously elected as deputy leader of the Labour Party on 1 March 2017, after the resignation of Annette King. Exactly five months later, with an election due, Labour's leader Andrew Little resigned after a historically low opinion polling result for the party, with Ardern elected unopposed as leader in his place. Labour's support increased rapidly after Ardern became leader, and she led her party to gain 14 seats at the 2017 general election on 23 September, winning 46 seats to the National Party's 56. After negotiations, New Zealand First chose to enter a minority coalition government with Labour, supported by the Green Party, with Ardern as prime minister. She was sworn in by the governor-general on 26 October 2017. She became the world's youngest female head of government at age 37. Ardern gave birth to her daughter on 21 June 2018, making her the world's second elected head of government to give birth while in office (after Benazir Bhutto).
Ardern describes herself as a social democrat and a progressive. The Sixth Labour Government faced challenges from the New Zealand housing crisis, child poverty, and social inequality. In March 2019, in the aftermath of the Christchurch mosque shootings, Ardern reacted by rapidly introducing strict gun laws. Throughout 2020 she led New Zealand's response to the COVID-19 pandemic, for which she won praise for New Zealand being one of few Western nations to successfully contain the virus. Ardern moved the Labour Party further to the centre towards the October 2020 general election, promising to cut spending during the remainder of the COVID-19 recession. She led the Labour Party to a landslide victory, gaining an overall majority of 65 seats in Parliament, the first time a majority government had been formed since 1996.
Facing declining popularity and increasing criticism over the government's handling of key issues such as the economy, housing, child poverty and the pandemic, Ardern announced on 19 January 2023, that she would resign as Labour leader, stating that she "didn't have enough in the tank." Ardern resigned as leader of the Labour Party on 22 January and submitted her resignation as prime minister three days later. Rising costs of living and concerns that the government's focus on health measures overshadowed effective economic recovery fuelled public backlash against the Labour Party in the 2023 general election.
In early 2026, Ardern emigrated to Australia.


--- [Harvard awards seven honorary degrees] ---
Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Recognizing game changers who continue to shape the world Seven will receive honorary degrees from Harvard during today’s Commencement ceremony in Tercentenary Theatre. José Ramón Andrés Puerta Doctor of Humane Letters Modern gastronomy master José Andrés became famous for cooking some of the finest foods in the world: traditional Spanish migas, liquid croquettas, and spot prawn and nasturtium leche de tigre. But the two-star Michelin chef, who also holds four Bib Gourmand awards, may be even better known for his humanitarian efforts, which include immigration reform and establishing the nonprofit disaster-relief organization World Central Kitchen. After training at Ferran Adrià’s experimental restaurant, El Bulli, in 1991 Andrés moved to New York City, where he popularized small plates at the award-winning Jaleo. After moving to Washington, D.C., he became co-founder and CEO of ThinkFoodGroup, and began volunteering with D.C. Central Kitchen. After an earthquake devastated Haiti in 2010, Andrés and his wife, Patricia, established World Central Kitchen, which has gone on to serve more than 70 million meals to people in disaster zones including Cambodia, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Nicaragua, Peru, Uganda, Zambia, and most recently Ukraine. World Central Kitchen also recently launched a major initiative to support communities threatened by climate change. He became a prominent critic of former President Donald Trump after Trump disparaged undocumented Mexican immigrants in 2015, and on the MSNBC show “What’s Eating America?” said, “Right now the political discourse is making us take sides, but trying to find answers gives me a sense of understanding of where are we going and what do we have to do … Because let me tell you, what’s happening right now it doesn’t work.” Andrés has also been a presence at Harvard, where he and Adrià taught a culinary physics course beginning in 2010. His culinary and humanitarian work have been recognized with James Beard awards, the National Humanities Medal, two entries on Time magazine’s list of the 100 Most Influential People, and Spain’s Princess of Asturias Award for Concord. Jacinda Kate Laurell Ardern Doctor of Laws New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern’s approach to politics is much like her approach to the COVID-19 pandemic: “Go hard and go early.” Since her election to the post in 2017 — at 37, as the country’s youngest leader in 150 years — she has steered New Zealand through attacks by both a white nationalist terrorist and a rogue virus. Raised seeing “children without shoes on their feet or anything to eat for lunch,” Ardern became an advocate for reducing child poverty. She has also worked to confront climate change and to spur trade. Politically brave, she responded to attacks on two mosques that killed 51 people in 2019 with calls to tighten New Zealand’s gun-control laws. She said then, “We were not a target because we are a safe harbor for those who hate. We were not chosen for this act of violence because we condone racism, because we are an enclave for extremism. We were chosen for the very fact that we are none of these things — because we represent diversity, kindness, compassion, a home for those who share our values, refuge for those who need it.” Ardern is known for her compassionate response to disasters, such as the 2019 volcanic eruption on Whakaari, when she was photographed hugging first responders. Her pull-no-punches approach to COVID-19, a total lockdown that quickly blocked its spread, made the country an early example of how to deal with the killer virus. Ardern has also been a strong supporter of women, telling an interviewer who suggested employers had a right to know whether female workers planned to have children, “[I]t is totally unacceptable in 2017 to say that women should have to answer that question … It is the woman’s decision about when they choose to have children. It should not predetermine whether or not they are given a job or have job opportunities.” Ardern was elected to a second term in 2020. Forbes has ranked her among the world’s most powerful women, and she topped Fortune’s 2021 list of the world’s greatest leaders. Ardern received the Gleitsman International Activist Award from the Harvard Kennedy School in 2020. Jean-Jacques Muyembe Tamfum Doctor of Science The Lancet described him as “Africa’s veteran Ebola hunter.” He was one of the lethal disease’s first survivors as well as its discoverer — though for four decades his work was improperly credited to a quartet of Belgian scientists. Writing in Time magazine’s 100 Most Influential People of 2020, Nobel Peace laureate Denis Mukwege said Jean-Jacques Muyembe Tamfum “greatly benefited the people of Congo as well as the entire world. … [H]is expertise, combined with that of other international scientists, will continue to be of great help in overcoming new scourges that we face.” In 1976, Muyembe became the first virologist ever to treat an Ebola patient, and he has been at the forefront of every outbreak of the disease since. In 1995, he treated eight Ebola patients with blood from a survivor, and seven survived. Western researchers rejected his finding because of the small sample size, but Muyembe used the observation to develop a monocolonal antibody to Ebola that was approved by the USDA in 2020. “If this observation was accepted at this time [1995], this product would have saved many, many lives. But it took more or less 20 years to recognize these first observations because it was done by the Congolese team,” Muyembe told the University of Washington. Today, Muyembe is a globally recognized leader in the fight against Ebola, the general director of the National Institute of Biomedical Research in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and the inaugural president of the Congolese Academy of Science. His research on monoclonal antibody treatments has helped advance therapies to treat COVID-19 as well as Ebola, and as a key figure in World Health Organization efforts to combat infectious diseases, he has received honors including lifetime achievement awards from the African Union and Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the International Symposium on Filoviruses, and the Hideyo Noguchi Africa Prize. Martha Craven Nussbaum Doctor of Laws Martha Nussbaum’s 24 books and 509 papers address topics ranging from Greek and Roman philosophy to reform in liberal education, sex and social justice, emotional intelligence to sexual orientation and constitutional law. The Ernst Freund Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago, she is internationally known as a scholar of feminist philosophy, political philosophy, and the philosophy of the arts, and used Stoicism to help define the base values of liberal education: critical self-examination, the idea of world citizenship, and developing narrative imagination. Nussbaum has also explored the philosophy of emotion, writing in “Upheavals of Thought” after her mother’s death that her own stoic expressions “that my mother found cold and unloving could actually be a form of love. It’s a form of human love to accept our complicated, messy humanity and not run away from it.” On ethics, she has written, “To be a good human being is to have a kind of openness to the world, the ability to trust uncertain things beyond your own control that can lead you to be shattered.” A former Harvard professor who earned her A.M. and Ph.D. here, Nussbaum became just the second woman to deliver the John Locke Lectures at Oxford in 2014 and delivered the Jefferson Lecturer in the Humanities three years later. She has received honors including the Grawemeyer Award in Education, the Prince of Asturias Award for Social Sciences, the $500,000 Kyoto Prize in Arts and Philosophy, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences’ Don M. Randel Prize for Achievement in the Humanities, the Berggruen Prize for Philosophy and Culture, the Holberg Prize, and the Inamori Ethics Prize. Vicki Lynn Ruiz Doctor of Laws Vicki Lynn Ruiz is a recorder of narrative histories that otherwise might not be told. These well could include her own. She rejected the idea of grad school when first suggested as “That’s for rich people. That’s for smart people,” as she told the National Endowment for the Humanities. But she went, earning a Ph.D. at Stanford University, and she turned her interest in the lives of Chicanas like herself into a career that began with taking oral histories from Mexican workers in canning factories and eventually “focused on dismantling the idea that Latinas are docile women whose domain is in the home.” Today the distinguished professor emerita of history and Chicano/Latino studies at the University of California, Irvine, she has made them the subject 14 books and more than 60 essays. “As farm workers, flappers, labor activists, barrio volunteers, civic leaders, and feminists, Mexican women have made history,” she wrote in “A History of Their Own.” Ruiz’s academic interests span labor history, immigration studies, women’s history, and the history of the American West. Her many published works include the monographs “Cannery Women, Cannery Lives: Mexican Women, Unionization, and the California Food Processing Industry, 1930–1950,” and “From Out of the Shadows: Mexican Women in Twentieth-Century America.” She co-edited the landmark three-volume “Latinas in the United States: A Historical Encyclopedia.” Past dean of the School of Humanities at UC Irvine, she has also served as president of the American Historical Association, the Organization of American Historians, the American Studies Association, and the Berkshire Conference of Women’s History. Her honors include the Immigration and Ethnic History Society’s Lifetime Achievement Award, the Organization of American Historians’ Rosenzweig Distinguished Service Award, and the National Humanities Medal, which called her work “on the vanguard of creating the field of Chicana/Chicano studies in the United States.” Gloria Marie Steinem Doctor of Humane Letters She had the nerve to go undercover to expose the Playboy operation in 1963, and the wit to title a book “The Truth Will Set You Free, But First It Will Piss You Off!” Gloria Steinem also had the drive, anger, and commitment to become an activist, writer, and force in the second-wave feminism of the 1960s and ’70s. Steinem’s career is studded with defining moments: In 1960 she moved to New York to pursue journalism, and made her name three years later with “A Bunny’s Tale”; in the same year, she co-founded New York Magazine, which would go on to publish “After Black Power, Women’s Liberation” in her City Politic column. With Betty Friedan, Bella Abzug, and Shirley Chisholm, she established the National Women’s Political Caucus and the Women’s Action Alliance in 1971, and that December Ms. magazine first appeared as an insert in New York. In 1977 she spoke at the National Women’s Conference, along with first ladies Rosalynn Carter, Betty Ford, and Lady Bird Johnson, U.S. Reps. Barbara Jordon and Abzug, and scholar Cecilia Burciaga. Her books include “Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions,” “Revolution from Within,” “Moving Beyond Words,” and “My Life on the Road”; she has co-produced documentaries on child abuse and violence against women; and was herself the subject of several television documentaries — as well as the play “Gloria: A Life,” performed at the American Repertory Theater. Her many honors include the Society of Professional Journalists’ Lifetime Achievement in Journalism Award, the National Civil Rights Museum’s Freedom Award, the Princess of Asturias Award for Communication and Humanities, and the 2013 Presidential Medal of Freedom, of which she said, “I would be crazy, if I didn’t understand that this was a medal for the entire women’s movement.” William Julius Wilson Doctor of Laws The Geyser University Professor Emeritus at Harvard, sociologist William Julius Wilson’s views on race and inner-city poverty have helped shape U.S. public policy. His belief that class plays a greater role than race in determining success disputed the ideas that poverty among Black Americans was due to entrenched racism or welfare dependency; rather, in his influential “The Declining Significance of Race: Blacks and Changing American Institutions” and “The Truly Disadvantaged: The Inner City, the Underclass, and Public Policy,” he blamed the departure of low-skilled manufacturing jobs from the inner cities and the effects of past racism. “Black employers are just as negative as the white employers concerning inner-city workers,” he pointed out. “My research clearly reveals that if we want to put inner-city workers to work immediately, we just can’t rely on the private sector. They don’t want to touch them; they don’t want to hire them.” Wilson taught at the University of Massachusetts and the University of Chicago, where he led the Center for the Study of Urban Inequality, before joining Harvard and becoming the director of its Joblessness and Urban Poverty Research Program. His extensive academic impact is reflected in his election to the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, the National Academy of Education, the National Academy of Medicine, and the British Academy. He is the past president of the American Sociological Association and a former MacArthur Fellow, and has received the National Medal of Science, the American Sociology Association’s W.E.B. Du Bois Career of Distinguished Scholarship Award, and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Talcott Parsons Prize, among other honors. He is also the only non-economist to receive the Seidman Award in Political Economy, and in 2012 the Inequality, Poverty, and Mobility Section of the American Sociological Association renamed its Early Career Award as the William Julius Wilson Early Career Award.


--- [Jacinda Ardern taking up new role at Harvard University - MiNDFOOD] ---
Ardern will be heading to Harvard University to help students and faculty build their leadership skills. She has been appointed to the 2023 Angelopoulos Global Public Leaders Fellow at the school of government and at the Hauser Leader in the Center for Public Leadership. Sharing the news on social media, Ardern also announced that she will be taking up a fellowship in tech governance leadership. “Harvard have been a really important partner in the Christchurch Call work, and my semester there later this year will also be an opportunity to take up the first tech governance leadership fellowship at the Berkman Klien Center. “Not only will this be a chance to work collaboratively with the center’s research community, but also work on the challenges around the growth of generative AI tools.” Ardern, who was given an International Activist Award by the university in 2020, and delivered Harvard’s 2022 commencement address, said she will be taking time to share her experiences, and learn from others too. “While I’ll be gone for a semester (helpfully the one that falls during the NZ general election!) I’ll be coming back at the end of the fellowships. After all, New Zealand is home.”


--- [Harvard to honour Ardern with Honorary Degree] ---
Sourced Content Boston, Massachusetts, February 26, 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will be the Principal Speaker at Harvard’s 371st Commencement on May 26, 2022, the University has announced. Harvard President Larry Bacow said that Ms Ardern is one of the most respected leaders on the world stage and that the University is delighted that she will join to celebrate the Class of 2022. “From climate change and gender equality to Covid-19, she has modelled compassionate leadership that has brought together empathy and science-based solutions to address the most challenging issues of our time. I very much look forward to her address,” he said. Illustrious career Born in Hamilton, New Zealand, to a Police Officer and a school cafeteria worker, Ms Ardern graduated from Waikato University in 2001 with a degree in Professional Communications and International Relations. She pursued a career in politics, working for New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark before moving to the UK to serve as a Senior Policy Adviser in the office of Prime Minister Tony Blair. Ms Ardern joined New Zealand’s Parliament as a Member of the Labour Party in 2008. At that time, she was the youngest member of Parliament. After almost a decade of service, she was elected to lead the Labour Party in 2017. She became Prime Minister later the same year. She is the third woman to govern the country, and the youngest person to hold office in more than 150 years. Pragmatic Idealist A self-described “pragmatic idealist,” Ms Ardern has brought global attention to New Zealand’s efforts to fight climate change and worked to advance gender equity and women’s rights. Re-elected to a second term in a landslide in 2020, Ardern has also put emphasis on diversity and representation in her cabinet, appointing Nanaia Mahuta as New Zealand’s first Indigenous female Foreign Minister. Ms Ardern’s leadership has also been tested by tragedy. After a gunman killed 51 people in attacks on Christchurch Mosques in March 2019, she was praised for her embrace of the country’s Muslim community. She devised a programme for financial assistance for the victims’ families and moved to reform gun laws in the weeks after the attack, announcing a ban on military-style semi-automatic and assault rifles. Decisive management of Covid Ms Ardern has won international admiration for her decisive management of the pandemic. At the outset of Covid-19, New Zealand maintained remarkably low infection and death rates. Espousing science-based guidelines coupled with policies designed to support New Zealanders throughout the crisis, Ardern has so far steered the country clear of the pandemic’s worst consequences. Ms Ardern’s numerous honours include the Harvard Kennedy School Center for Public Leadership’s 2020 Gleitsman International Activist Award. She has twice been named to Time Magazine’s 100 Most Influential People list, repeatedly been named to the Forbes Magazine list of the world’s most powerful women and topped the Fortune 2021 list of the World’s Greatest Leaders. Other Commencement Speakers Recent Harvard Commencement speakers include Ruth Simmons, President of Prairie View A&M University; former Washington Post Editor Marty Baron; German Chancellor Angela Merkel; and the late Civil Rights leader and US Representative John Lewis. Ms Ardern will be the 17th sitting world leader to deliver the address. She will also be awarded an Honorary Degree. On May 29, 2022, Harvard will hold a Commencement celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021, whose ceremonies were postponed due to the pandemic. The University will announce the speaker for the event in the coming weeks. Source: The Harvard Gazette


--- [Former New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern to Join Harvard as ...] ---
News Jeffrey Epstein, Gerald Chan Coordinated on Proposed Tsinghua University Campus in Boston News Harvard Faculty Cut A Grades by Nearly 7 Percentage Points in Fall News Seven Harvard Affiliates Named 2027 Schwarzman Scholars News Public Health Faculty Slam Harvard’s Removal of FXB Center Director Mary Bassett News A Double-Edged Sword? Double Concentrations Create Both Pressure and Opportunity for Harvard Students Three months after resigning as prime minister of New Zealand, Jacinda Ardern will join Harvard Kennedy School and Harvard Law School in the fall for three fellowships, according to Tuesday press releases from the schools. This fall, Ardern will join HKS as an Angelopoulos Global Public Leaders Fellow, a position that allows leaders stepping out of public service roles to reside at the school. She will also serve as a Hauser Leader in HKS’ Center for Public Leadership, which also supports high-profile figures to meet faculty and students. At the Law School, she will be the first Knight Tech Governance Leadership Fellow at the Berkman Klein Center for Internet and Society, where she will study artificial intelligence regulation and risks, as well as improvements to accountability standards for extremist online content. Ardern said in the press release that she is “incredibly humbled” to join Harvard because the fellowships will allow her to “share my experience with others” and provide “a chance to learn.” “As leaders, there’s often very little time for reflection, but reflection is critical if we are to properly support the next generation of leaders,” she added. Ardern shocked the world in January when she announced that she would be resigning as prime minister, explaining she did not have “enough in the tank,” to face reelection this coming October. In the months prior, Ardern was also facing falling approval ratings amid frustrations over the high cost of living and rising interest rates. Ardern was elected to her post in 2017 at age 37, becoming New Zealand’s youngest prime minister in 150 years. The prominent feminist leader — who gave birth while in office — quickly rose to international prominence as a progressive icon. In 2019, she received praise for her response to the deadliest mass shooting in New Zealand’s history in which a white supremacist killed 51 Muslim worshippers in two mosques. “Jacinda Ardern showed the world strong and empathetic political leadership,” HKS Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf said in the press release. “She earned respect far beyond the shores of her country, and she will bring important insights for our students and will generate vital conversations about the public policy choices facing leaders at all levels,” he added. In 2022, Ardern delivered the address in the University’s 371st Commencement, where she received an honorary law degree. In 2020, she received the Gleitsman Activist Award from the HKS Center for Public Leadership. —Staff writer Thomas J. Mete can be reached at [email protected]. Follow him on Twitter @thomasjmete. Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter. Have a tip for The Crimson? Share it confidentially.
