=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Anna Politkovskaya - Wikipedia]
Anna Stepanovna Politkovskaya[a] (née Mazepa; [b] 30 August 1958 - 7 October 2006) was a Russian investigative journalist who reported on political and social events in Russia, in particular, the Second Chechen War (1999-2005). [1] She was found murdered in the elevator of her apartment block in Moscow on 7 October 2006, Vladimir Putin's birthday. [2] It was her reporting from Chechnya ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna_Politkovskaya

[Anna Politkovskaya <br> (1958 - 2006) - IWMF]
Anna Politkovskaya (1958 - 2006) Novaya Gazeta, Russia. In February 2001, while investigating rapes, beatings and murders committed by the Russian military in the village of Khatuni, Anna Politkovskaya (1958-2006) was arrested and held for three days by the Russian military, allegedly because her press credentials were not in order.
URL: https://www.iwmf.org/community/anna-politkovskaya/

[Inspiring Thursday: Anna Politkovskaya - WOMEN AGAINST VIOLENCE EUROPE]
Dec 20, 2018 · Anna Politkovskaya was a famous and important Russian journalist known for her investigative reports on human rights abuses and alleged atrocities committed by the Russian military in Chechnya.
URL: https://wave-network.org/inspiring-thursday-anna-politkovskaya/

[Anna Politkovskaya: A double-edged legacy - Archives - IFEX]
May 13, 2024 · In 2001, while investigating allegations that pro-Russian forces had abducted and tortured civilians in the small Chechen village of Khattuni, she was detained by Russian troops, interrogated, beaten and kept in a pit for three days; she was also forced to undergo a mock execution, which she describes in her book, A Small Corner of Hell ...
URL: https://ifex.org/faces/anna-politkovskaya-a-double-edged-legacy/

[Anna Politkovskaya - Connexipedia article - connexions.org]
Early in 2001 Politkovskaya was detained by military officials in the southern mountain village of Khottuni. [30] Politkovskaya was investigating complaints from 90 Chechen families about "punitive raids" by federal forces.
URL: https://www.connexions.org/CxLibrary/Docs/CxP-Politkovskaya_Anna.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Anna Politkovskaya - Wikipedia] ---
Anna Stepanovna Politkovskaya (née Mazepa; 30 August 1958 – 7 October 2006) was a Russian investigative journalist who reported on political and social events in Russia, in particular, the Second Chechen War (1999–2005). She was found murdered in the elevator of her apartment block in Moscow on 7 October 2006, Vladimir Putin's birthday.
It was her reporting from Chechnya that made her national and international reputation. For seven years, she refused to give up reporting on the war despite numerous acts of intimidation and violence. Politkovskaya was arrested by Russian military forces in Chechnya and subjected to a mock execution. She was poisoned while flying from Moscow via Rostov-on-Don to help resolve the 2004 Beslan school hostage crisis, and had to turn back, requiring careful medical treatment in Moscow to restore her health.
Her post-1999 articles about conditions in Chechnya were turned into books several times; Russian readers' main access to her investigations and publications was through Novaya Gazeta, a Russian newspaper that featured critical investigative coverage of Russian political and social affairs. From 2000 onwards, she received numerous international awards for her work. In 2004, she published Putin's Russia, a personal account of Russia for a Western readership.
On 7 October 2006 (the 54th birthday of Russian president Vladimir Putin), she was murdered in the elevator of her block of apartments, an assassination that attracted international attention. In 2014, five men were sentenced to prison for the murder, but it is still unclear who ordered or paid for the contract killing.




--- [Anna Politkovskaya <br> (1958 - 2006) - IWMF] ---
Novaya Gazeta, Russia. In February 2001, while investigating rapes, beatings and murders committed by the Russian military in the village of Khatuni, Anna Politkovskaya (1958-2006) was arrested and held for three days by the Russian military, allegedly because her press credentials were not in order. During that time, she reported that Russian soldiers threatened to shoot her, rape her and harm her children. While in Moscow in September 2001, she received several death threats because of her reporting. Initially, she was given security guards for her safety and was instructed by her newspaper not to leave her home. When senior staff decided that these precautions were not enough, her publisher helped her flee to Vienna. She returned to Moscow in December 2001 and continued reporting about Chechnya for Novaya Gazeta. Politkovskaya graduated from Moscow State University with a degree in journalism in 1980. She worked for several trade newspapers before moving to the weekly newspaper Obshchaya Gazeta, where she worked from 1994-1999. She has worked for Novaya Gazeta since 1999. She is the author of A Dirty War: A Russian Reporter in Chechnya [Harvill Press, London, 2001]. On October 7, 2006, Politkovskaya was fatally shot in the stairwell of her apartment building in central Moscow. Police said a pistol and four shell casings were found beside her body, reports indicated a contract killing. Six people are suspected of involvement in the case – former police officer Dmitry Pavlyuchenkov, Chechen-born Lom-Ali Gaitukayev, former police officer Sergei Kadzhikurbanov and the Makhmudov brothers, one of whom is alleged to have been the killer. None of them have been brought to justice. Politkovskaya faced the possibility of death with her characteristic stoicism: “They say that if you talk about a disaster you can cause it to happen. That is why I never say aloud what I am most afraid of. Just so it won’t happen,” she said in an interview with film maker Eric Bergkraut. She believed that she had a mission to report on the “dirty war” in Chechnya that the Putin regime had launched in the autumn of 1999. By the time of her death, Politkovskaya had made at least fifty trips to Chechnya, a savage and dangerous place that most other Russian journalists avoided. In her Courage in Journalism Award acceptance speech, she said: “It is customary to believe that journalists go to places where wars and catastrophes break out because people and the world want to know the truth and the news about these events. In Russia things are just the opposite today. The people do not want to know the truth about the ongoing war. They have been subjected to a powerful ideological brainwash and were led to believe that the events in Chechnya are nothing but an anti-terrorist operation, and they do not want to know what really takes place there. They do not wish to hear about the crimes committed by the military, about the sufferings of the civilian population or about the thousands of victims on all the sides. So, the courage of a journalist under such circumstances consists in giving this information to the people, much against their will, and make them think about the tragedy that the country is going through, think that this must be stopped. You may ask, why? Why, if people do not want that? The answer is simple: this is our duty, the duty of a journalist. A doctor performs an operation. A journalist operates on the public opinion. The need to risk is part of the profession here. If you are tired and cannot take the risk any more, you have to leave. As for me, I am not tired yet.” – October 16, 2002, New York Anna Politkovskaya did not attend the Courage in Journalism Award ceremony in Los Angeles on October 24, 2002. Instead, at the request of Chechen rebels who had taken more than 900 people hostage in a Moscow theater, she was on a plane, flying to Russia to help with negotiations. She left this message to be read at the awards ceremony: “I want to thank you once again. It is a great honor for me to receive the Courage in Journalism Award. However – and I think you will agree with me – it is an even greater honor for me to respond when Destiny offers the opportunity to help people when a crisis strikes. There’s a big tragedy unfolding in Russia today, and those circumstances require that it is today, and not a day later that I need to prove that I indeed have courage. I have always believed that Russian journalism, first and foremost, is the journalism of action. The journalism of taking the step that you simply must take. Please pray for us, those who are directly affected by this crisis. And of course, say a prayer for me.” Anna Politkovskaya is the first Courage in Journalism Award winner from Russia. IWMF Awards - Courage in Journalism Awards Awardee, 2002


--- [Inspiring Thursday: Anna Politkovskaya - WOMEN AGAINST VIOLENCE EUROPE] ---
No content


--- [Anna Politkovskaya: A double-edged legacy - Archives - IFEX] ---
One of Russia's most famous investigative journalists, Anna Politkovskaya braved beatings, bullets and poison in her pursuit of the truth. "If you want to go on working as a journalist, it's total servility to Putin. Otherwise, it can be death, the bullet, poison, or trial - whatever our special services, Putin's guard dogs, see fit." Brave, independent and fiercely critical of Vladimir Putin’s regime, Anna Politkovskaya was one of Russia’s best known investigative journalists. Murdered in 2006, her legacy is double-edged: young journalists look to her as a model of what they can aspire to be; criminals use her name as a kind of threatening shorthand when they want to silence inquisitive reporters. The daughter of Soviet diplomats, Politkovskaya began her career in journalism shortly after graduating from university. From 1982 to 1993, she was a reporter and editor for Izvestia; from 1994 to 1999, she was the assistant chief editor of Obshchaya Gazeta; and from 1999 to 2006, she wrote for Novaya Gazeta. As well as practicing journalism, Politkovskaya published several books, including Putin’s Russia – an angry denunciation of the official corruption and rights abuses that were (and are) so rife in her homeland. She was lauded internationally, and was the recipient of many prizes, including the Amnesty International Global Award for Human Rights Journalism in 2001, the Index on Censorship Award for the Defence of Free Expression and the PEN American Center Freedom to Write Award in 2002, and (posthumously) the UNESCO/Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize in 2007. Politkovskaya was best known for her work exposing human rights abuses carried out by both Russians and Chechen separatists during the second Chechen war (1999-2009). This won her the enmity of protagonists on both sides of the conflict, including Vladimir Putin and his thuggish Chechen ally, Ramzan Kadyrov (then the prime minister of Chechnya, now its president). She often spoke witheringly about these men and their personal corruption, and once described Kadyrov as “a puppet… a coward armed to the teeth and surrounded by security guards.” Politkovskaya also issued frequent warnings about the threat posed to free expression by Putin’s increasing power. A week after the regime’s disastrous handling of the 2004 Beslan hostage crisis (which had seen over 187 children die as Russian security forces used battlefield weapons against Chechen separatists hiding inside a school), she wrote about information blackouts and journalists parroting the government line on the siege: “We are hurtling back into a Soviet abyss, into an information vacuum that spells death from our own ignorance. All we have left is the internet, where information is still freely available. For the rest, if you want to go on working as a journalist, it’s total servility to Putin. Otherwise, it can be death, the bullet, poison, or trial – whatever our special services, Putin’s guard dogs, see fit.” Politkovskaya was no stranger to threats, violence, bullets or poison. In 2001, while investigating allegations that pro-Russian forces had abducted and tortured civilians in the small Chechen village of Khattuni, she was detained by Russian troops, interrogated, beaten and kept in a pit for three days; she was also forced to undergo a mock execution, which she describes in her book, A Small Corner of Hell: Dispatches from Chechnya: “A lieutenant colonel with a swarthy face and dull dark bulging eyes said in a businesslike tone: ‘Let’s go. I’m going to shoot you.’ He led me out of the tent into complete darkness. The nights here are impenetrable. After we walked for a while, he said, “Ready or not, here I come.” Something burst with pulsating fire around me, screeching, roaring, and growling. The lieutenant colonel was very happy when I crouched in fright. It turned out that he had led me right under the ‘Grad’ rocket launcher at the moment it was fired.” On 5 October 2006, Politkovskaya spoke gloomily to Radio Free Europe Radio Liberty (RFERL) about the ongoing human rights abuses in Chechnya, and particularly the increase in torture and disappearances under Kadyrov (whom she called a “Stalin for our times”). During the interview, which coincidentally took place on Kadyrov’s 30th birthday, Politkovskaya told RFERL: “I only have one dream for Kadyrov’s birthday: I dream of him someday sitting in the dock in a trial that meets the strictest legal standards, with all of his crimes listed and investigated.” That was the last interview she gave. Two days later, on 7 October 2006, Politkovskaya was discovered dead in the lobby of the Moscow apartment block where she lived. She had been shot four times at close range in what was clearly a contract killing; she was 48 years old. Politkovskaya’s murder was condemned by press freedom organisations and governments around the world; there were demonstrations on Moscow’s streets calling for justice. All this was ignored by the Russian authorities, who made no comment on the killing until Putin travelled to Germany on 10 October, the day of Politkovskaya’s funeral. When asked at a press conference about the journalist’s death, his response was nasty and brief. Politkovskaya, he said, was a “sharp critic” whose “influence over political life in Russia was extremely insignificant.” Justice for Anna Politkovskaya was a long time coming; and when it arrived, it was not entirely satisfactory. After trials, acquittals and retrials, six men were eventually convicted of the journalist’s murder: one was sentenced to 11 years in a penal colony in 2012; the remaining five were handed life sentences in 2014. Those who ordered the killing have not been identified. In November 2023, it was reported that one of the men convicted of murdering Politkavskaya – former Moscow police officer Sergei Khadzhikurbanov – had been pardoned after fighting in Ukraine as part of Russia’s invading army. At that time, the Russian authorities were offering convicts their freedom in return for six months’ war service. Illustration by Florian Nicolle


--- [Anna Politkovskaya - Connexipedia article - connexions.org] ---
Information to change the world | | Find Topics, Titles, Names related to your query | | | Anna Politkovskaya Anna Stepanovna Politkovskaya (30 August 1958 - 7 October 2006) was a Russian journalist, author and human rights activist well known for her opposition to the Chechen conflict and then-President of Russia Vladimir Putin.[1] On 7 October 2006, she was shot dead in the elevator of her apartment building, an unsolved[2] assassination that continues to attract international attention.[3][4] Politkovskaya made her name reporting from Chechnya.[5] Her constant stream of articles after 1999 about conditions in Chechnya were turned into several books[6] but Russian readers' main access to her investigations and publications was through Novaya gazeta. From 2000 onwards she received numerous prestigious international awards for her work. In 2004 she published a personal account of Putin's Russia.[7] [edit] Early lifePolitkovskaya was born Anna Mazeppa in New York City in 1958. Her parents were Soviet Ukrainian, and both worked as diplomats at the United Nations. Anna grew up in Moscow and graduated in 1980 from the Moscow State University's faculty of journalism. While there she defended a thesis about the poetry of Marina Tsvetaeva and married fellow student Alexander Politkovsky. They had two children, Vera and Ilya. At first Alexander was the better-known, joining TV journalist Vladislav Listyev as one of the hosts on Vzglyad, the late-night TV programme. Apart from her childhood years, Politkovskaya spent no more than a few weeks out of Russia, at any one time, even when her life came under threat. She acquired a US passport but did not cease to be a Russian citizen.[8] [edit] Journalistic workPolitkovskaya worked for Izvestia from 1982 to 1993 and as a reporter and editor of emergencies/accidents section, then later (1994–1999) as assistant chief editor of Obshchaya Gazeta headed by Yegor Yakovlev where she wrote frequently about social problems and, in particular, the plight of refugees. From June 1999 to 2006, she wrote columns for the biweekly Novaya gazeta, a paper with strong investigative reporting and critical from the outset of the new post-1991 regime. She published several award-winning books about Chechnya, life in Russia, and President Putin's regime, including Putin's Russia.[9][10] [edit] Reports from ChechnyaWidely acclaimed for her reporting from Chechnya, Politkovskaya won a number of prestigious awards for her work.[10][11] She used each of these occasions to urge greater concern and responsibility by Western governments which, after 9/11, welcomed Putin's contribution to their "war on terror". She said about herself that she was not an investigating magistrate but somebody who describes the life of the citizens for those who cannot see it for themselves, because what is shown on television and written about in the overwhelming majority of newspapers is emasculated and doused with ideology[citation needed]. She talked to officials, the military and the police and also frequently visited hospitals and refugee camps, in Chechnya and in neighbouring Ingushetia, to interview those injured and uprooted by the renewed fighting.[12] In numerous articles critical of the war in Chechnya, and the new pro-Kremlin regime there, Politkovskaya described alleged abuses committed by Russian military forces, Chechen rebels, and the Russian-backed administration led by Akhmad Kadyrov and his son Ramzan Kadyrov. She also chronicled human rights abuses and policy failures elsewhere in the North Caucasus. In one characteristic instance she not only wrote about the plight of an ethnically-mixed old people's home under bombardment in Grozny in 1999 but, with the aid of her newspaper and public support, she helped to secure the safe evacuation of its elderly inhabitants. Her articles, many of which form the basis of A Dirty War (2001) and A Small Corner of Hell (2003), depict a conflict that brutalised both Chechen fighters and conscript soldiers in the federal army, and created hell for the civilians caught between them. As Politkovskaya reported, the order supposedly restored under the Kadyrovs, became a regime of endemic torture, abduction and murder, either by the new Chechen authorities or the various federal forces based in Chechnya.[9] One of her last investigations was into the alleged mass poisoning of Chechen school children by a strong and unknown chemical substance which incapacitated them for many months.[13] [edit] Criticism of Vladimir Putin and FSBAfter Politkovskaya became widely known in the West she was commissioned to write Putin's Russia (later subtitled Life in a Failing Democracy), a broader account of her views and experiences after former KGB lieutenant colonel Vladimir Putin became prime minister to Boris Yeltsin and then succeeded him as president. Naturally, this included Putin's pursuit of the Second Chechen War. In the book, she accused the Russian secret service, FSB, of stifling all civil liberties in order to establish a Soviet-style dictatorship, but admitted "[It] is we who are responsible for Putin's policies...[s]ociety has shown limitless apathy...[a]s the Chekists have become entrenched in power, we have let them see our fear, and thereby have only intensified their urge to treat us like cattle. The KGB respects only the strong. The weak it devours. We of all people ought to know that." She also wrote: [edit] A Russian DiaryIn May 2007, posthumously, Random House published Anna Politkovskaya's A Russian Diary, containing extracts from her notebook and other writings. Subtitled A Journalist's Final Account of Life, Corruption, and Death in Putin's Russia, the book gives her account of the period from December 2003 to August 2005, including what she described as "the death of Russian parliamentary democracy", the Beslan school hostage crisis, and the "winter and summer of discontent" from January to August 2005.[21] Because she was murdered "while translation was being completed, final editing had to go ahead without her help," wrote translator Arch Tait in a note to the book.[22] "Who killed Anna and who lay beyond her killer remains unknown," wrote UK Channel 4's main news anchor Jon Snow, in his foreword to the book's UK edition. "Her murder robbed too many of us of absolutely vital sources of information and contact," he concluded. "Yet it may, ultimately, be seen to have at least helped prepare the way for the unmasking of the dark forces at the heart of Russia's current being. I must confess that I finished reading A Russian Diary feeling that it should be taken up and dropped from the air in vast quantities throughout the length and breadth of Mother Russia, for all her people to read."[23] [edit] Attempted hostage negotiationsPolitkovskaya was closely involved in attempts to negotiate the release of hostages in the Moscow theater hostage crisis of 2002. When the Beslan school hostage crisis erupted in the North Caucasus in early September 2004, Anna Politkovskaya attempted to fly there to act as a mediator but was taken off the plane, acutely ill in Rostov-on-Don (see Poisoning).[24][25] [edit] Relationships with Russian authoritiesIn Moscow, she was not invited to press conferences or gatherings that Kremlin officials might attend, in case the organizers were suspected of harboring sympathies toward her. Despite this, many top officials allegedly talked to her when she was writing articles or conducting investigations. According to one of her articles, they did talk to her, "but only when they weren't likely to be observed: outside in crowds, or in houses that they approached by different routes, like spies".[9] She also claimed that the Kremlin tried to block her access to information and discredit her:[9] "I will not go into the other joys of the path I have chosen, the poisoning, the arrests, the threats in letters and over the Internet, the telephoned death threats, the weekly summons to the prosecutor general's office to sign statements about practically every article I write (the first question being, 'How and where did you obtain this information?'). Of course I don't like the constant derisive articles about me that appear in other newspapers and on Internet sites presenting me as the madwoman of Moscow. I find it disgusting to live this way. I would like a bit more understanding."[9] [edit] Death threatsAfter Politkovskaya's murder her colleague at Novaya gazeta Vyacheslav Izmailov (a military man who had helped negotiate the release of dozens of hostages in Chechnya before 1999) said that he knew of at least nine previous occasions when Anna had faced death, and commented, "Frontline soldiers do not usually go into battle so often and survive".[26] Politkovskaya herself did not deny being afraid but felt as responsible and concerned for those who were her informants. While attending a conference on the freedom of press organized by Reporters Without Borders in Vienna in December 2005, Politkovskaya said: "People sometimes pay with their lives for saying aloud what they think. In fact, one can even get killed for giving me information. I am not the only one in danger. I have examples that prove it."[27] She often received death threats as a result of her work, including being threatened with rape and experiencing a mock execution after being arrested by the military in Chechnya.[28][29] [edit] Detention in ChechnyaEarly in 2001 Politkovskaya was detained by military officials in the southern mountain village of Khottuni.[30] Politkovskaya was investigating complaints from 90 Chechen families about "punitive raids" by federal forces. She interviewed a Chechen grandmother Rosita from a village of Tovzeni who endured 12 days of beatings, electric shocks and confinement in a pit. The men who arrested Rosita presented themselves as FSB employees. The torturers requested a ransom from Rosita's relatives who negotiated a smaller amount that they were able to pay. Another interviewee described killings and rapes of Chechen men in a "concentration camp with a commercial streak" near the village of Khottuni.[31][32][33] Upon leaving the camp, Politkovskaya was detained, interrogated, beaten and humiliated by Russian troops. "...the young officers tortured me, skillfully hitting my sore spots. They looked through my children's pictures, making a point of saying what they would like to do to the kids. This went on for about three hours."[34] She was subjected to a mock execution using a BM-21 Grad multiple-launch rocket system, then poisoned with a cup of tea that made her vomit. Her tape records were confiscated. She described her mock execution: After the mock execution, the Russian lieutenant colonel said to her: "Here's the banya. Take off your clothes." Seeing that his words had no effect, he got very angry: "A real lieutenant colonel is courting you, and you say no, you militant bitch."[34] In 2006 European Court of Human Rights found Russian Federation responsible for the forced disappearance of an Ingush militant suspect Khadzhi-Murat Yandiyev. Colonel-General Alexander Baranov, the commander of the Russian Kavkaz deployment mentioned by Politkovskaya's camp guide as the one who ordered captured militants to be kept in the pits, was caught on video as he ordered Yandiyev to be executed.[35] [edit] PoisoningWhile flying south in September 2004 to help in negotiations with those who had taken over a thousand hostages in a school in Beslan (North Ossetia), Politkovskaya fell violently ill and lost consciousness after drinking tea. She had been reportedly poisoned, with some accusing the former Soviet secret police poison facility.[36][37] [edit] Threats from OMON officerIn 2001, Politkovskaya fled to Vienna, following e-mail threats that a police officer whom she had accused of atrocities against civilians in Chechnya was looking to take revenge. Corporal Sergei Lapin was arrested and charged in 2002, but the case against him was closed the following year. In 2005, Lapin was convicted and jailed for torturing and disappearing[clarification needed] a Chechen civilian detainee, the case exposed by Anna Politkovskaya in the article "Disappearing People".[12][38][39] [edit] Conflict with Ramzan KadyrovIn 2004, Politkovskaya had a conversation with Chechnya's then prime minister Ramzan Kadyrov. One of his assistants said to her: "Someone ought to have shot you back in Moscow, right on the street, like they do in your Moscow". Ramzan repeated after him: "You're an enemy. To be shot..."..[40] On the day of her murder, said Novaya Gazeta's chief editor Dmitry Muratov, Politkovskaya had planned to file a lengthy story on torture practices believed to be used by Chechen security detachments known as Kadyrovites. In the last interview of her life she described Kadyrov, now president of Chechnya, as the "Chechen Stalin of our days" [41]. [edit] Murder, investigation and trialMain article: Assassination of Anna Politkovskaya Politkovskaya was found dead in the elevator of her apartment in central Moscow on Saturday, 7 October 2006. She had been shot twice in the chest, once in the shoulder, and once in the head at point blank range.[42] The funeral was held on Tuesday, 10 October, at 2:30 p.m., at the Troyekurovskoye Cemetery. Before Politkovskaya was laid to rest, more than one thousand filed past her coffin to pay their last respects. Dozens of Politkovskaya's colleagues, public figures and admirers of her work gathered at a cemetery on the outskirts of Moscow for the funeral. No high-ranking Russian officials could be seen at the ceremony.[43] Anna was buried not far from her father who had died a short while before. (The grave of murdered journalist Dmitry Kholodov is in the same cemetery.) There was widespread international reaction. Some of her colleagues and friends accused the Russian authorities of negligence in doing nothing to prevent her murder, or even of actual involvement in her assassination. In May 2007 a large posthumous collection of Anna's articles, entitled With Good Reason, was published by Novaya gazeta and launched at the Gorbachev Foundation in Moscow (see Bibliography, Noting but the Truth, 2010). The event came soon after the birth of Anna's latest grandchild: Vera's little daughter was named Anna in honour of her grandmother. A few months later ten men were detained, on suspicion of various degrees of involvement in the murder of Politkovskaya.[44] Four of them were brought before the Moscow District Military Court in October 2008. [edit] TrialThree men were charged with directly aiding Politkovskaya's killer (allegedly, the brother of two of them). There was insufficient evidence to charge the fourth man, an FSB colonel, over the murder though he was suspected of a leading role in its organisation; he stood trial at the same time for another offence. The case was held before a jury (a rare occurrence in Russia)[45] and, after the jurors insisted, was open to the press and public.[46][47][48] On 25 November 2008, it was reported that Politkovskaya's murder might have been ordered by a politician inside Russia. Murad Musayev, a lawyer for the men on trial, told journalists that the case notes, as one of the interpretations of the crime, mentioned that a politician, based in Russia (but not named in those notes), was behind her death.[49][50] (In 2007 the Prosecutor General Yury Chaika had suggested that the businessman Boris Berezovsky had a hand in the killing.)[citation needed] On 5 December 2008, Sergei Sokolov, a senior editor of Novaya Gazeta, testified in court that he had received information from sources he would not name that defendant Dzhabrail Makhmudov was an agent of the FSB; he said Makhmudov's uncle Lom-Ali Gaitukayev, who was serving a 12-year jail sentence for the attempted murder of a Ukrainian businessman, also worked for the FSB.[51][52] [edit] Following the acquittalAfter the acquittal in February 2009 of all those on trial for the murder of Anna Politkovskaya, her children Vera and Ilya, their lawyers Karinna Moskalenko and Anna Stavitskaya, and senior Novaya gazeta editor Sergei Sokolov gave their reaction to the trial at a press conference in Moscow [53]. In his comments on the end of the trial, Andrew McIntosh, Chairman of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly–s Sub-Committee on the Media and PACE Rapporteur on media freedom, expressed frustration at what he perceived to be a lack of progress in investigating the murder, or the inability of the Russian authorities to find her killers: Before the trial ended Stanislav Markelov, a lawyer who had investigated many of the abuses documented by Politkovskaya, was assassinated in Moscow on 19 January 2009, with journalist Anastasia Baburova.[55] Baburova was a freelance contributor to Politkovskaya's newspaper and Markelov represented Novaya gazeta on many occasions. In November 2009 the first public results of the investigation into the double shooting suggested that the murders had no immediate connection to the Politkovskaya assassination.[56] More closely related to Anna Politkovskaya's work as a journalist was the murder on 15 July 2009 of Natalia Estemirova. A board member of the Memorial human rights organisation, and one of Politkovskaya's key informants, guides and colleagues in Chechnya, Estemirova [57] was abducted in Grozny and found dead, several hours later, in neighbouring Ingushetia. All three murders highlighted the impunity with which such activists were being killed (see List of journalists killed in Russia). After the first killing Dmitry Muratov asked publicly for his journalists to be trained to defend themselves, with firearms if necessary. When Estemirova's death was followed in August by the killing in Grozny of two more human rights activists, Zarema Sadulayeva and her husband Umar Dzhabrailov, Novaya gazeta announced it could no longer take the risk of sending its journalists to Chechnya. The Chechen authorities expressed their offence at this "slur". In an interview with Radio Liberty Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov voiced attitudes to the late Natalya Estemirova that contradicted his earlier expressions of public concern and regret.[58] She was a woman, he said, who had "never possessed any honour, dignity or conscience". On 5 August the objection of the prosecution service to the acquittals in the Politkovskaya trial case was upheld by the Supreme Court and a new trial was ordered.[59] [edit] DocumentaryIn 2008, Swiss director Eric Bergkraut made a documentary, Letter to Anna, about Politkovskaya's life and death. It includes interviews with her son Ilya, her daughter Vera, her ex-husband Alexander Politkovsky and others such as businessman Boris Berezovsky and film-maker Andrei Nekrasov.[60][61][62] [edit] Anna Politkovskaya AwardIn 2007 to mark the first anniversary of Anna Politkovskaya's murder Reach all Women in War (RAW in WAR), a human rights organisation which focuses on stopping violence against women in war and conflict, set up the "Anna Politkovskaya Award". The award is intended to honour female human rights activists who, like Politkovskaya, live a life of courage and truth-telling in the face of grave danger, standing up for the victims of conflict, often at great personal risk. The first Anna Politkovskaya Award was presented to her friend and colleague, Natalia Estermirova. She was Politkovskaya's most frequent companion during her travel and journalistic investigations in Chechnya, shedding light on human rights abuses for Memorial, Russia's oldest human rights organisation. Estemirova too was abducted and murdered on 15th July 2009. To date neither of the murders has been solved. The recipient of the second Award was Malalai Joya, the youngest elected member of Afghanistan's national parliament in 2005 who spoke out against ex-mujahadeen warlords at the age of 25. Her life has been in danger ever since she challenged the warlords and demanded they be brought to justice for the crimes committed against civilians, especially women, however, Joya continues to fight, saying no amount of intimidation will stop her efforts. The 2009 Award was given to the One Million Signatures Campaign for Equality in Iran, a grassroots campaign that aims to collect signatures of Iranian nationals to a petition demanding an end to legal discrimination against women in Iran. Although campaigning peacefully and legally, activists often face regular harassment and persecution and are subject to arbitrary arrest and imprisonment and charged with acting 'against national security.' A group of more than 100 influential cultural and political leaders have joined the Award's Committee of Supporters, including President Vaclav Havel, Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Nobel laureates Mairead Maguire and Shirin Ebadi. [edit] Awards [edit] Bibliography [edit] References [edit] External links | Related topics in the Connexions Subject Index Alternatives – Left History – Libraries & Archives – Social Change – This article is based on one or more articles in Wikipedia, with modifications and additional content contributed by Connexions editors. This article, and any information from Wikipedia, is covered by a Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) and the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). We welcome your help in improving and expanding the content of Connexipedia articles, and in correcting errors. Connexipedia is not a wiki: please contact Connexions by email if you wish to contribute. We are also looking for contributors interested in writing articles on topics, persons, events and organizations related to social justice and the history of social change movements. For more information contact Connexions
