=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Lord Limerick's follies on roadside, Bryansford, Co. Down]
In May 2010 work commenced on Lord Limerick's Follies at Tollymore Park, Newcastle, Co. Down. These follies were conserved in memory of Dick Oram, the eminent and much loved conservation architect who, until his death in 2008, lived near Tollymore Park.
URL: https://follies-trust.org/projects/projects-2010-11/lord-limericks-follies/

[Landscape Conservation Action Plan (LCAP) - Part 1 - Mourne ...]
Mar 28, 2013 — Landscape Conservation Action Plan (LCAP) - Part 1 - Mourne ...
URL: https://www.yumpu.com/en/document/view/11783403/landscape-conservation-action-plan-lcap-part-1-mourne-

[Tollymore Follies - McCollum Conservation]
Tollymore Follies Location: Newcastle, County Down A collection of unusual estate structures dating from the early 1700's, the Practice worked with the Mourne Heritage Trust to survey and then conserve insitu fifteen of these.
URL: https://www.mccollumconservation.com/projects/tollymore-follies-restoration/

[Tollymore Park - Bryansford, Newcastle, County Down]
The Limerick Follies along the park perimeter include a pyramid decorated with bapstones on a square stone base 'supported' by flying buttresses; another stone structure with a spire; and a field gate with the local style of low conical gatepier caps replaced by tall conical caps on massive gatepiers with blank arrowloops.
URL: https://www.parksandgardens.org/places/tollymore-park

[Tollymore Park: The Gothick Revival of Thomas Wright & Lord Limerick - UAH]
Unfortunately the house, which was sited on the present car park, was demolished in 1952 along with Wright's central section that had remained more or less intact. Like many Irish demesnes, Tollymore developed from the original deer parks and sporting estate created by Lord Limerick following his return from the Grand Tour in the early 1720s.
URL: https://ulsterarchitecturalheritage.org.uk/shop/tollymore-park-the-gothick-revival-of-thomas-wright-lord-limerick/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Lord Limerick's follies on roadside, Bryansford, Co. Down] ---
Lord Limerick’s follies on roadside, Bryansford, Co. Down In May 2010 work commenced on Lord Limerick’s Follies at Tollymore Park, Newcastle, Co. Down. These follies were conserved in memory of Dick Oram, the eminent and much loved conservation architect who, until his death in 2008, lived near Tollymore Park. The conservation project was organised and orchestrated by the Follies Trust and generously financially supported by a wide range of family friends and organisations which Dick was associated with. There is an associated publication TOLLYMORE PARK – The Gothick Revival of Thomas Wright and Lord Limerick (please see PUBLICATIONS). Before: After:


--- [Landscape Conservation Action Plan (LCAP) - Part 1 - Mourne ...] ---
- Page 2 and 3: CONTENTS Executive Summary i-v Intr - Page 4 and 5: Landscape Conservation Action Plan - Page 6 and 7: Section 2: Statement of Significanc - Page 8 and 9: Section 4 also identifies how the v - Page 10 and 11: The Mountain Kingdom of Mourne - An - Page 12 and 13: The events combined a celebratory e - Page 14 and 15: The Group met collectively on seven - Page 16 and 17: In order to include these features - Page 18 and 19: 1.3 Towns and Villages The Landscap - Page 20 and 21: Northern Ireland Water Northern Ire - Page 22 and 23: Mourne Granite The granites that fo - Page 24 and 25: Once formed, it took millions of ye - Page 26 and 27: Some of the most iconic species wit - Page 28 and 29: 1.5.8 Public spaces We have detaile - Page 30 and 31: Silent Valley Mountain Park Situate - Page 32 and 33: Mourne. An audit of the artisan qua - Page 34 and 35: In the ‘virtual island’ context - Page 36 and 37: 2. Statement of Significance 2.1 Na - Page 38 and 39: Mournes after Richey. 6 weeks field - Page 40 and 41: Nendrum tidal mill, Co. Down - earl - Page 42 and 43: 2.9 Tourism Tourism is an important - Page 44 and 45: 2.10 Outdoor Recreation Closely lin - Page 46 and 47: Stone. Raised on Irish mythology, t - Page 48 and 49: The outcomes of this exercise refer - Page 50 and 51: 3A. Risks and Opportunities 3. The - Page 52 and 53: More recently (March/ April 2011) a - Page 55 and 56: MHT countryside staff attended a nu - Page 57 and 58: 3.2.5 Administrative Areas The Mour - Page 59 and 60: 3.2.7 A Forgotten Heritage As expla - Page 61 and 62: Skills and traditions that came out - Page 63 and 64: four years ago. It experienced a ve - Page 65 and 66: Project Ideas from Discussions at M - Page 67 and 68: 3.5 Conclusions from Risks and Oppo - Page 69 and 70: Audience Current Mechanisms & Issue - Page 71 and 72: Audience Current Mechanisms & Issue - Page 73 and 74: 3.8 Existing Audience Activities Th - Page 75 and 76: 3.8.2 Rock Climbing The Mourne Moun - Page 77 and 78: 3.9 Audience/ Visitor Infrastructur - Page 79 and 80: Aligned to these walking routes is - Page 81 and 82: 3.9.3 Walking Trails and Country Pa - Page 83 and 84: 3.9.5 Information Provision There a - Page 85 and 86: 3.10 Research on Audience Provision - Page 87 and 88: Relevant findings are as follows: N - Page 89 and 90: Areas that will be visited during t - Page 91 and 92: The Mourne area has relatively low - Page 93 and 94: While it may have reversed somewhat - Page 95 and 96: A second map on migration (below) s - Page 97 and 98: 3.12 Analysis and Conclusions on Au - Page 99 and 100: Information and Interpretation Wit - Page 101 and 102: Before looking at the detail of our - Page 103 and 104: 4.1.3 Appreciating and Caring For o - Page 105 and 106: Techniques developed in our upland - Page 107 and 108: 4.1.7 Participative Research and Le - Page 109 and 110: Our research and consultations howe - Page 111 and 112: Theme LP Programme A LP Programme B - Page 113 and 114: access them directly. The interpret - Page 115 and 116: 4.3.3 Additional element Tollymore - Page 117 and 118: Working Group Lead LP Officer Membe - Page 119: Mourne Mountains LP Scheme Scheme T


--- [Tollymore Follies - McCollum Conservation] ---
Location: Newcastle, County Down A collection of unusual estate structures dating from the early 1700’s, the Practice worked with the Mourne Heritage Trust to survey and then conserve insitu fifteen of these. The project included the sensitive repair of an obelisk, grotto, two gate screens, a sham castle, temple and a number of bridges and eye catchers.


--- [Tollymore Park - Bryansford, Newcastle, County Down] ---
Introduction Tollymore is a demesne in the Mourne Mountains noted for views and plantations since the 18th century. There are many garden buildings and structures by Thomas Wright and others, including the Barbican and Bryansford Gates, an ornamental stable block, a series of ornamental bridges across the River Shimna, a hermitage, a cascade and a series of decorative structures around the demesne boundary known as Lord Limerick's Follies. The house was demolished in 1952. The site has been a Forest Park since 1955. The Bryansford Gate is a Georgian gothick arch with decorative flying buttresses, built of ashlar granite dressed with 'bapstones', a local found material. The spire of the stable block is viewed through the arch, with the Mourne Mountains rising behind. The Barbican Gate is a roughcast-rendered Georgian gothick gatehouse with the arch flanked by twin round towers decorated with trefoils. A curving avenue of Deodar cedars lines the drive inside the gatehouse. The stable block is built in stone in the manner of a church, with a spire at one end decorated with bapstones. The adjacent footgate also has a gothick arch decorated with bapstones. The Limerick Follies along the park perimeter include a pyramid decorated with bapstones on a square stone base 'supported' by flying buttresses; another stone structure with a spire; and a field gate with the local style of low conical gatepier caps replaced by tall conical caps on massive gatepiers with blank arrowloops. The River Shimna, a shallow stream flowing over shelves of mossy rock through picturesque woodland, is crossed by ornamental bridges including the Ivy Bridge, approached by pairs of square piers capped by rusticated pyramids and Foley's Bridge, a semicircular arch decorated with evenly-spaced hemispherical bapstones. Another crossing of stepping stones marks a cascade drop in level. A rustic stone Hermitage overlooks the river, and incorporates a simple room with a stone seat. The Horn Bridge, a stone footbridge decorated with blank trefoils, crosses a stream, above which there is a modern flower garden. The former kitchen garden has been hard surfaced and is in use as a car park. Most of the demesne is now covered with mature forestry plantations, and is in use as a Forest Park for public recreation. - Visitor Access, Directions & Contacts Telephone 028 9056 9615Access contact details Public amenity. This is a Forest Park. Directions Three miles north-west of Newcastle off the B180. Owners Northern Ireland Forest Service www.forestservice.niOther Websites - History The present layout dates from the 18th century, and appears to be the consequence of Thomas Wright of Durham's visit to Dundalk as the tutor of Lord Limerick, the heir to the Tollymore estate, in the winter of 1746-1747. No convincing documentary evidence exists to demonstrate that Wright designed the house and garden buildings at Tollymore, but they are mostly in his distinctive style. Those which are dated fall within the lifetime of Lord Limerick, later first Earl of Clanbrassil of the second creation. The Barbican Gate was built in about 1780 and the Bryansford Gate about 1786. Many other estate buildings, including the Limerick Follies along the demesne wall, the stable block, the Horn Bridge, the Ivy Bridge and Foley's Bridge over the Shimna, the Hermitage (1770, in memory of the Marquis of Monthermer) and the walled kitchen garden also date from the second half of the 18th century. 19th-century photographs show a thatched open pavilion with rustic timber columns, again in the manner of Thomas Wright. In 1798 Lord Clanbrassil died without issue. The estate passed to his sister and thus to her husband, the first Earl of Roden, in whose family it continued. The estate was noted for the quality of its tree plantations in the late 18th century. This characteristic has continued to the present day. The house was twice extended and remodelled during the 19th century. In 1930 part of the estate was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture. The remainder of the estate was transferred in 1941. In 1955 Tollymore was declared a Forest Park, the first of its kind, with forestry operations kept in balance with public access. The house was demolished in 1952. Period 18th Century (1701 to 1800) - Associated People - Features & Designations Designations Environment and Heritage Service of Northern Ireland Heritage Gardens Inventory - Reference: D 65 Features - Tree Avenue - Description: An avenue of Deodars (Cedrus deodara) lines the drive inside the Barbican Gate. - Hermitage - Description: The Hermitage is a rough stone structure above the River Shimna, incorporating a simple room with a stone bench. - Earliest Date: - Latest Date: - Kitchen Garden - Description: The former kitchen garden at Tollymore is a rectangular space framed by stone walls. It is now surfaced with asphalt and used as a visitor car park. - Garden House - Gate - Description: There are two ornamental gates at Tollymore. The Bryansford Gate is an ashlar granite gothick arch decorated with bapstones and 'supported' by flying buttresses. The Barbican Gate is a roughcast gothick structure with a pointed arch flanked by a pair of round towers. The towers bear blank trefoils; the spandrels of the arch bear blank crossloops. - Ornamental Bridge - Description: There are several ornamental bridges at Tollymore. They include the Ivy Bridge across the Shimna, guarded by four rusticated pyramids on square bases; Foley's Bridge over the Shimna, a semicircular arch of stone decorated with hemispherical bapstones; and the Horn Bridge over a stream, a stone bridge decorated with blank trefoils. - Stable Block - Description: The stable block at Tollymore is built of dresed granite in the form of a church, with a spire decorated with bapstones at one end. Next to it is a gateway in the same manner, also decorated with bapstones. - Earliest Date: - Latest Date: - Folly - Description: Lord Limerick's follies decorate the park wall at intervals. They include a pyramid decorated with bapstones on a square base 'supported' by flying buttresses; a tall spire; and a pair of tall field gatepiers with blank arrowloops, surmounted by tall conical spires. - Key Information Type Park Principal Building Domestic / Residential Period 18th Century (1701 to 1800) Survival Extant Open to the public Yes - References


--- [Tollymore Park: The Gothick Revival of Thomas Wright & Lord Limerick - UAH] ---
Tollymore Park: The Gothick Revival of Thomas Wright & Lord Limerick £5.00 By Various Authors, 2010. Soft Back, 56pp, 50 photographs and illustrations. 16 in stock Tollymore Park is one of the foremost eighteenth-century landscaped demesnes in the British Isles, and still lies within its original boundaries. Importantly, it contains the most extensive example of Thomas Wright designed, or Thomas Wright inspired architecture in the British Isles. Wright also designed a sporting lodge for Lord Limerick which was enlarged on several occasions, particularly in the Victorian Era following a serious fire. Unfortunately the house, which was sited on the present car park, was demolished in 1952 along with Wright’s central section that had remained more or less intact. Like many Irish demesnes, Tollymore developed from the original deer parks and sporting estate created by Lord Limerick following his return from the Grand Tour in the early 1720s. His work was continued by his son, Lord Clanbrassill, who had been tutored by Thomas Wright when Lord Limerick brought Wright over from England to Dundalk where the family then lived. There were no children to continue the Clanbrassill line and Tollymore passed to Lord Clanbrassill’s sister who had married the first Earl of Roden. The Roden family made Tollymore their main residence until the beginning of the Second World War when it was sold to the Northern Irish government and subsequently became the first forest park in Northern Ireland. This book gives a history of the main protagonists in the architectural life of Tollymore, Thomas Wright and Lord Limerick, and discusses the unique style of Wright’s Gothick architecture, with a look at the buildings of the Tollymore demesne. | Weight | 213 g | |---|---| | Dimensions | 21 × 0.5 × 21 cm |
