=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Aaron L. Brody - Wikipedia]
In 1964, Brody was awarded the Industrial Achievement Award by the Institute of Food Technologists and the Leadership Award by the Packaging Institute. He was named Packaging Man of the Year in 1985 by the National Association of Packaging, Handling, and Logistics Engineers.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_L._Brody

[Obituary: Dr. Aaron L Brody - Atlanta Jewish Times]
Aug 12, 2021 · Dr. Brody received the highest industry award, the Riester-Davis Award for Lifetime Achievement in Food Packaging from The Institute of Food Technologists’ Food Packaging Division. This award was later renamed the Riester-Davis-Brody Award. He was the first recipient of the Institute of Food Technologists’ Industrial Scientist Award.
URL: https://www.atlantajewishtimes.com/obituary-dr-aaron-l-brody/

[Aaron L. Brody | Military Wiki | Fandom]
In 1964, Brody was awarded the Industrial Achievement Award by the Institute of Food Technologists and the Leadership Award by the Packaging Institute. He was named Packaging Man of the Year in 1985 by the National Association of Packaging, Handling, and Logistics Engineers.
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/Aaron_L._Brody

[Aaron Brody Obituary (1930 - 2021) - Peachtree Corners, GA - Atlanta ...]
Jul 28, 2021 · Brody received the highest industry award, the Riester-Davis Award for Lifetime Achievement in Food Packaging from The Institute of Food Technologists' Food Packaging Division; this award was ...
URL: https://www.legacy.com/us/obituaries/atlanta/name/aaron-brody-obituary?id=20745423

[Aaron L. Brody - Wikidata]
0 references given name Aaron 0 references family name Brody 0 references date of birth 23 August 1930 1 reference place of birth Boston 1 reference date of death 26 July 2021 0 references place of death Peachtree Corners 0 references educated at Massachusetts Institute of Technology 1 reference residence Atlanta 1 reference Commons category ...
URL: https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q42665753


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Aaron L. Brody - Wikipedia] ---
Aaron Leo Brody (August 23, 1930 – July 26, 2021) was an American food scientist, who developed new technologies in food processing and packaging. He created the first frozen fish sticks in the 1950s. While working for Mars, Incorporated, he was also responsible for introducing Starburst to the United States. Later, Brody served as an adjunct professor at the University of Georgia.


--- [Obituary: Dr. Aaron L Brody - Atlanta Jewish Times] ---
Obituary: Dr. Aaron L Brody Dr. Aaron L Brody, 90, of Peachtree Corners, passed away peacefully July 26, 2021, with family at his side. Dr. Aaron L Brody, 90, of Peachtree Corners, passed away peacefully July 26, 2021, with family at his side. Aaron was born Aug. 23, 1930, in Boston, Mass., and lived in New England, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Georgia. He graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1951 and earned his Ph.D. from MIT in 1957. He became a world-renowned scientist in the field of food packaging technology as his career took him to Raytheon, Birdseye, Whirlpool, M&M’s Mars, Arthur D. Little, Mead Packaging and Container Corporation of America. He subsequently transitioned to the world of independent consulting and also became a professor and lecturer at multiple universities, including the University of Georgia. Dr. Brody held numerous patents, authored dozens of books and articles on food packaging and food technology and received multiple awards during his lifetime. He was named Packaging Man of the Year in 1985. Dr. Brody received the highest industry award, the Riester-Davis Award for Lifetime Achievement in Food Packaging from The Institute of Food Technologists’ Food Packaging Division. This award was later renamed the Riester-Davis-Brody Award. He was the first recipient of the Institute of Food Technologists’ Industrial Scientist Award. In 1995, Dr. Brody was inducted into the Packaging Hall of Fame, and in 2000 he was awarded the Nicolas Appert Award by the Institute of Food Technologists in recognition of his lifetime contributions. The Michigan State University School of Packaging established the annual Aaron and Carolyn Brody Distinguished Lecture in Food Packaging endowment in recognition of his significant impact on the science of food packaging. Aaron was predeceased by his wife Carolyn in April. He is survived by his three sons Stephen, Glen, Robyn, their spouses Susan and Sharon, and his six grandchildren Michelle, Derek, Camryn, Skyler, Natalia and Pierce. The family requests contributions in Aaron’s memory be made to the Alzheimer’s Association, the MIT General Fund, or the MSU Aaron and Carolyn Brody Distinguished Lecture in Food Packaging endowment. The funeral was held July 28 at Dressler’s Chapel followed by a procession to Arlington Memorial Park. Arrangements by Dressler’s Jewish Funeral Care, 770-451-4999. Visit www.dresslerjewishfunerals.com to sign the online guestbook. - Obituary - Lifecycle - Obituaries - Lifecycles - Dr. Aaron L Brody - Dressler Jewish Funeral Care - Massachusetts Institute of Technology - food packaging technology - University of Georgia - independent consulting - Professor - lecturer - patents - Packaging Man of the Year - Riester-Davis Award - Nicolas Appert Award - Institute of Food Technologists - Institute of Food Technologists’ Industrial Scientist Award - Alzheimer's Association - MIT General Fund - MSU Aaron and Carolyn Brody Distinguished Lecture in Food Packaging endowment


--- [Aaron L. Brody | Military Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Aaron Brody Obituary (1930 - 2021) - Peachtree Corners, GA - Atlanta ...] ---
1930 - 2021 BRODY, Dr. Aaron L. We regret to announce the passing of Dr. Aaron L Brody, 90, of Peachtree Corners, GA on July 26, 2021. Aaron passed away peacefully with family at his side. Aaron is survived by his three sons, Stephen, Glen, Robyn, their spouses Susan and Sharon, and his six grandchildren Michelle, Derek, Camryn, Skyler, Natalia and Pierce. Aaron was predeceased by his wife Carolyn in April 2021. Aaron was born on August 23, 1930 in Boston, Massachusetts and lived in New England, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Georgia. He graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1951 and earned his Ph.D. from MIT in 1957. He became a world-renowned scientist in the field of food packaging technology as his career took him to Raytheon, Birdseye, Whirlpool, M&M Mars, Arthur D. Little, Mead Packaging and Container Corporation of America. He subsequently transitioned to the world of independent consulting and also became a professor and lecturer at multiple universities including the University of Georgia. Dr. Brody held numerous patents, authored dozens of books and articles on food packaging and food technology, and received multiple awards during his lifetime. He was named Packaging Man of the Year in 1985. Dr. Brody received the highest industry award, the Riester-Davis Award for Lifetime Achievement in Food Packaging from The Institute of Food Technologists' Food Packaging Division; this award was later renamed the Riester-Davis-Brody Award. He was the first recipient of the Institute of Food Technologists' Industrial Scientist Award. In 1995, Dr. Brody was inducted into the Packaging Hall of Fame, and in 2000 he was awarded the Nicholas Appert Award by the Institute of Food Technologists in recognition of his lifetime contributions. The Michigan State University School of Packaging established the annual Aaron and Carolyn Brody Distinguished Lecture in Food Packaging endowment in recognition of his significant impact on the science of food packaging. The family requests contributions in Aaron's memory be made to the Alzheimer's Association, the MIT General Fund, or the Aaron and Carolyn Brody Distinguished Lecture in Food Packaging endowment at Michigan State University. The funeral will be held at 11:00 AM on Wednesday, July 28, at Dressler's Chapel, 3734 Chamblee Dunwoody Rd., Atlanta, GA 30341 followed by a procession to Arlington Memorial Park. The funeral will also be livestreamed. Please visit www.dresslerjewishfunerals.com for the link and to sign the online guestbook. Dressler's, 770-451-4999. Please consider a donation as requested by the family.


--- [Aaron L. Brody - Wikidata] ---
Aaron L. Brody (Q42665753) Appearance American scientist - Aaron Leo Brody | Language | Label | Description | Also known as | |---|---|---|---| | default for all languages | Aaron L. Brody | || | English | Aaron L. Brody | American scientist | | Statements 26 July 2021 0 references Aaron L. Brody 0 references Identifiers Brody, Aaron L. 1 reference 1 reference Sitelinks Wikipedia(1 entry) - enwiki Aaron L. Brody Wikibooks(0 entries) Wikinews(0 entries) Wikiquote(0 entries) Wikisource(0 entries) Wikiversity(0 entries) Wikivoyage(0 entries) Wiktionary(0 entries) Multilingual sites(1 entry) - commonswiki Category:Aaron L. Brody
