=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Which Indian security force has launched a robot named 'Captain Arjun ...]
Q. Which Indian security force has launched a robot named 'Captain Arjun' to perform medical screening? Answer: Railway Protection Force Notes: Railway Protection Force, Pune has launched a robot named 'Captain Arjun', to screen passengers while they board trains. ARJUN stands for Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice.
URL: https://www.gktoday.in/question/which-indian-security-force-has-launched-a-robot-n

[What is the name of the robot launched by Railway Protection Force ...]
Railway Protection Force, Pune, has launched ' Captain Arjun ', a robot to screen passengers while they boarded trains. Robot 'Captain Arjun' (Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice) has been launched to intensify the screening and surveillance. It is equipped with a motion sensor, one PTZ camera (Pan, Tilt, Zoom Camera), and one Dome Camera.
URL: https://testbook.com/question-answer/what-is-the-name-of-the-robot-launched-by-railway--5ee71bc3983d9a0d13989df5

[Robotic 'Captain Arjun' to screen passengers while boarding ...]
New Delhi [India], June 13 (ANI): Railway Protection Force, Pune on Friday launched 'CAPTAIN ARJUN', a robot to screen passengers while they board trains, said Central Railways.
URL: https://www.aninews.in/news/national/general-news/robotic-captain-arjun-to-screen-passengers-while-boarding-trains-central-railways20200613031410/

[Captain ARJUN| Pune: Robotic Captain ARJUN launched to screen ...]
Jun 12, 2020 · Railway Protection Force, Pune has launched a robot named 'Captain ARJUN' (Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice) to screen passengers and enhance surveillance at railway premises.
URL: https://www.timesnownews.com/the-buzz/article/pune-robotic-captain-arjun-launched-to-screen-passengers-sanitise-floors-enhance-railway-security-photos/605651

[Robotic Captain Arjun To Screen Passengers While Boarding ...]
Jun 13, 2020 · Railway Protection Force, Pune on Friday launched ''CAPTAIN ARJUN'', a robot to screen passengers while they board trains, said Central Railways.
URL: https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/robotic-captain-arjun-to-screen-passengers-while-boarding-trains-central-railways-2245528


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Which Indian security force has launched a robot named 'Captain Arjun ...] ---
Q. Which Indian security force has launched a robot named 'Captain Arjun' to perform medical screening? Answer: Railway Protection Force Notes: Railway Protection Force, Pune has launched a robot named 'Captain Arjun', to screen passengers while they board trains. ARJUN stands for Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice. It is equipped with a motion sensor, PTZ camera (Pan, Tilt, Zoom Camera) and a Dome Camera. Captain Arjun also does thermal screening and also has a sensor-based sanitizer and mask dispenser. It also has a floor sanitization facility. The robot uses artificial intelligence to track suspicious activity and antisocial activity.


--- [What is the name of the robot launched by Railway Protection Force ...] ---
Question Download Solution PDFWhat is the name of the robot launched by Railway Protection Force, Pune, to screen passengers while they boarded trains? - Captain Vikram - Captain Arjun - Captain Viraat - Captain Bheem - Captain Bose Answer (Detailed Solution Below) Option 2 : Captain Arjun India's Super Teachers for all govt. exams Under One Roof FREE Demo Classes Available* Enroll For Free Now Detailed Solution Download Solution PDF- Railway Protection Force, Pune, has launched 'Captain Arjun', a robot to screen passengers while they boarded trains. - Robot 'Captain Arjun' (Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice) has been launched to intensify the screening and surveillance. - It is equipped with a motion sensor, one PTZ camera (Pan, Tilt, Zoom Camera), and one Dome Camera. India’s #1 Learning Platform Start Complete Exam Preparation Daily Live MasterClasses Practice Question Bank Mock Tests & Quizzes Trusted by 8.1 Crore+ Students


--- [Robotic 'Captain Arjun' to screen passengers while boarding ...] ---
New Delhi [India], June 13 (ANI): Railway Protection Force, Pune on Friday launched 'CAPTAIN ARJUN', a robot to screen passengers while they board trains, said Central Railways. Robotic 'CAPTAIN ARJUN' (Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice) has been launched to intensify the screening and surveillance. This Robot was launched to screen passengers while they board trains and keep a watch on anti-social elements. The Robotic Captain Arujn was launched online on Friday evening. On this occasion, Sanjeev Mittal, General Manager appreciated the innovation by the Railway Protection Force and said "The Robotic Captain Arjun will protect the passengers and the staff from any possible infection and also its surveillance will provide enhanced security". Captain Arjun is equipped with a motion sensor, one PTZ camera (Pan, Tilt, Zoom Camera), and one Dome Camera. The Cameras use Artificial Intelligence algorithms to track suspicious activity and antisocial activity, has an inbuilt siren, motion-activated spotlight H-264 Processor, there is also in-built internal storage for recording in case there is a network failure. Captain Arjun does thermal screening and records the temperature in a digital display panel with a response time of 0.5 seconds and if the temperature is higher than the reference range, it sounds an abnormal automatic alarm with a counting capacity of 999. Captain Arjun has adopted a two-way communication mode, voice, and video and also speaks in the local language. It is housed with speakers to spread awareness messages on COVID19. Captain Arjun also has a sensor-based sanitizer and mask dispenser and can move. The robot has a floor sanitization facility with good battery backup. It has rugged wheels that support all kinds of surfaces. (ANI)


--- [Captain ARJUN| Pune: Robotic Captain ARJUN launched to screen ...] ---
Pune: Railway Protection Force (RPF), Pune, on Friday launched a robot named 'Captain ARJUN' (Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice) to intensify screening and surveillance amid coronavirus lockdown. The robot has been launched to screen passengers boarding the train. Captain Arjun will also keep a watch on anti-social elements. Robotic Captain ARJUN was launched online today by Arun Kumar, Director General (RPF), Railway Board. Sanjeev Mittal, General Manager, Central Railway, appreciated the RPF for their innovative measure. "The Robotic Captain ARJUN will protect the passengers and the staff from any possible infection and also its surveillance will provide enhanced security," Mittal said. "Captain ARJUN is equipped with a motion sensor, one PTZ camera (Pan, Tilt, Zoom Camera) and one Dome camera. The cameras use Artificial Intelligence algorithms to track suspicious activity and antisocial activity, has an inbuilt siren, motion-activated spotlight H-264 Processor, there is also in-built internal storage for recording in case there is a network failure," Central Railway said in a press release. Captain ARJUN records the temperature in digital display panel after the thermal screening. The robot has a response time of 0.5 seconds. If an individual's temperature is higher than the reference range, it an abnormal automatic alarm sound with a counting capacity of 999 is amde. Captain ARJUN has adopted a two-way communication model, voice and video. The robot speaks in the local language. It has been installed with speakers to spread awareness messages about COVID-19. (Image: Central Railway) The robot also has a sensor-based sanitizer and mask dispenser. It has floor sanitisation facilities with good battery backup. It is equipped with rugged wheels to supports all kinds of surfaces. Captain Arjun is the brainchild of Alok Bohra DIG/RPF, Central Railway. "The high infection rates among multiple segments of people across the world have hampered efforts to tackle COVID-19 pandemic that prompted us to consider robotic screening. Captain ARJUN can be deployed for multiple uses and it is an effective element in station access control and will augment the station security plan," Bohra said. Captain ARJUN will enable screening without manual encounters and its surveillance feature will prove to be a great deterrent to any unusual occurrences and ensure security in railway premises, Central Railway said.


--- [Robotic Captain Arjun To Screen Passengers While Boarding ...] ---
Railway Protection Force, Pune on Friday launched ''CAPTAIN ARJUN'', a robot to screen passengers while they board trains, said Central Railways. Robotic ''CAPTAIN ARJUN'' (Always be Responsible and Just Use to be Nice) has been launched to intensify the screening and surveillance. This Robot was launched to screen passengers while they board trains and keep a watch on anti-social elements. The Robotic Captain Arujn was launched online on Friday evening. On this occasion, Sanjeev Mittal, General Manager appreciated the innovation by the Railway Protection Force and said "The Robotic Captain Arjun will protect the passengers and the staff from any possible infection and also its surveillance will provide enhanced security". Captain Arjun is equipped with a motion sensor, one PTZ camera (Pan, Tilt, Zoom Camera), and one Dome Camera. The Cameras use Artificial Intelligence algorithms to track suspicious activity and antisocial activity, has an inbuilt siren, motion-activated spotlight H-264 Processor, there is also in-built internal storage for recording in case there is a network failure. Captain Arjun does thermal screening and records the temperature in a digital display panel with a response time of 0.5 seconds and if the temperature is higher than the reference range, it sounds an abnormal automatic alarm with a counting capacity of 999. Captain Arjun has adopted a two-way communication mode, voice, and video and also speaks in the local language. It is housed with speakers to spread awareness messages on COVID19. Captain Arjun also has a sensor-based sanitizer and mask dispenser and can move. The robot has a floor sanitization facility with good battery backup. It has rugged wheels that support all kinds of surfaces. (Except for the headline, this story has not been edited by NDTV staff and is published from a syndicated feed.) Track Latest News Live on NDTV.com and get news updates from India and around the world
