=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Rules of Luton - Space: 1999 2x08 | TVmaze]
Episode Guide for Space: 1999 2x08: The Rules of Luton. Episode summary, trailer and screencaps; guest stars and main cast list; and more.
URL: https://www.tvmaze.com/episodes/354625/space-1999-2x08-the-rules-of-luton

["Space: 1999" The Rules of Luton (TV Episode 1976)]
The Rules of Luton. Episode aired Oct 23, 1976; TV-14; 49m.
URL: https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0706351/

[List of Space: 1999 episodes - Wikipedia]
List of Space: 1999 episodes Space: 1999, a British science fiction television series, ran for 48 episodes from 1975 to 1977. The first series of 24 episodes (often referred to as "Year One") premiered in the UK on 4 September 1975, though the first episode had begun production in 1973.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Space:_1999_episodes

[The Rules of Luton Episode Guide- Space: 1999 Catacombs]
The image of Luton from space is actually a blue monochrome version of a photograph of Earth, taken by Apollo 11 astronauts. Africa can be seen, with parts of Europe and Asia.
URL: https://catacombs.space1999.net/main/epguide/t31trol.html

[Space1999.org - Homage to the "Space: 1999" science fiction ...]
Backplot In the year 1999, lunar nuclear waste storage dumps have exploded, due to magnetic radiation, sending Earth's moon into interstellar space. The inhabitants of Moonbase Alpha, unable to escape, are seeking a new home. Following the visitation by the interstellar trader, the Taybor (and his S.S. Emporium ship), the Alphans are back to their "normal," daily routines.
URL: http://www.space1999.org/features/episode_guide/year_two/y2ep7-the_rules_of_luton.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Rules of Luton - Space: 1999 2x08 | TVmaze] ---
We don't have a summary for The Rules of Luton yet. Hang in there, or go ahead and contribute one. Cast Appearances Episode Discussion No comments yet. Be the first! We don't have a summary for The Rules of Luton yet. Hang in there, or go ahead and contribute one. No comments yet. Be the first!


--- ["Space: 1999" The Rules of Luton (TV Episode 1976)] ---
Koenig and Maya land on a planet where the alien plant rulers put them through trial by combat after they inadvertently kill some of the local plant life.Koenig and Maya land on a planet where the alien plant rulers put them through trial by combat after they inadvertently kill some of the local plant life.Koenig and Maya land on a planet where the alien plant rulers put them through trial by combat after they inadvertently kill some of the local plant life. Jenny Cresswell - Operative - (uncredited) Annie Lambert - Main Mission Operative Julie Tracy - (uncredited) - Director - Writer - All cast & crew - Production, box office & more at IMDbPro Featured reviews It was great to see this episode at long last (I may have seen it on its first run in the 70s, but I can't honestly remember). The title 'The Rules of Luton' adds an unintentionally humorous aside for British viewers - especially those who have ever visited (or lived in) this slightly non-descript Bedfordshie town (the story of how this title came to be is of course legend in the Anderson universe). But, going back to the episode itself, it's great to see one with a huge amount of location filming - and the teaming of Koenig and Maya in a tense life or death situation where they need to outwit three random alien opponents is very watchable. It all starts when the ill-fated duo arrive on what they see as a suitable Earth-like planet for the Alphans to populate to do a recce. But, thr pair soon run into trouble when they eat some berries off a tree - it seems that vegetation is the primary conscious life on this planet, and what they have done is tantamount to cannabalism... thr rules of Luton. From here, their invisible tormentors set them to a battle to the death with the three aforementioned aliens in a story that's reminiscent of the Hunger Games - as they all regroup and escape into thr wilderness to plan each other's next move. The aliens themselves aren't the best-realized in the show's history - as if they're three cast-offs that have been given a story to at least appear in perhaps! But what saves it for me is the location filming (mainly around Black Park, which we've of course seen before in UFO), and a disused quarry which evokes images of 70s Dr Who. The other good thing is the very likeable Maya, who's certainly one of the best things about this often shaky second season. Her whole shape-shifting gimmick is a very good one, and it's used here to good effect - and at one point, even to Maya's disadvantage. It does have the feel of a 'second unit' story (where I'm guessing filming was simultaneously taking place on the Alpha sets on a story featuring little of Koenig and Maya) but, if you're prepared to suspend disbelief and go along with it, it's a tense and fun episode that really showcases Mayas abilities - and how resourceful she and John can be when they're backed into a corner. As for Luton - well, it can keep its crazy rules! The title 'The Rules of Luton' adds an unintentionally humorous aside for British viewers - especially those who have ever visited (or lived in) this slightly non-descript Bedfordshie town (the story of how this title came to be is of course legend in the Anderson universe). But, going back to the episode itself, it's great to see one with a huge amount of location filming - and the teaming of Koenig and Maya in a tense life or death situation where they need to outwit three random alien opponents is very watchable. It all starts when the ill-fated duo arrive on what they see as a suitable Earth-like planet for the Alphans to populate to do a recce. But, thr pair soon run into trouble when they eat some berries off a tree - it seems that vegetation is the primary conscious life on this planet, and what they have done is tantamount to cannabalism... thr rules of Luton. From here, their invisible tormentors set them to a battle to the death with the three aforementioned aliens in a story that's reminiscent of the Hunger Games - as they all regroup and escape into thr wilderness to plan each other's next move. The aliens themselves aren't the best-realized in the show's history - as if they're three cast-offs that have been given a story to at least appear in perhaps! But what saves it for me is the location filming (mainly around Black Park, which we've of course seen before in UFO), and a disused quarry which evokes images of 70s Dr Who. The other good thing is the very likeable Maya, who's certainly one of the best things about this often shaky second season. Her whole shape-shifting gimmick is a very good one, and it's used here to good effect - and at one point, even to Maya's disadvantage. It does have the feel of a 'second unit' story (where I'm guessing filming was simultaneously taking place on the Alpha sets on a story featuring little of Koenig and Maya) but, if you're prepared to suspend disbelief and go along with it, it's a tense and fun episode that really showcases Mayas abilities - and how resourceful she and John can be when they're backed into a corner. As for Luton - well, it can keep its crazy rules! This episode is basically a retelling of frederic brown's arena which had already been done by star trek, so the plot is predictable as is the outcome. talking trees just seem like a daft idea and it struggles to come off. the outdoor setting looks like a quarry but it is nice to see some outdoor location shooting instead of the standard studio sets, likewise the use of some woods make for a nice change. basically it's just running around and chasing, there is not much else going on. landau and schell both acquit themselves well. landau is particularly likable, even cracking some jokes. one particular scene, in which koenig describes a nuclear war and the death of his wife, is actually very moving. This is probably the worst sci fi series ever, talking plants and trees that make people fight to the death, what sort of drugs was the scriptwriter using, how could they talk ? And why would they, and why were the trees the ones in charge, why not the weeds, and why did I watch it, and why did the injured Koenig drag a useless great lump of fake rock every where, stopping him and Maya from ever outpacing the chasing aliens, and why didn't the moon shatter into a billion pieces in the 1st episode has it should have done and saved the careers of one or two fine actors. Did you know - TriviaThe title came about after producer/writer Fred Freiberger was inspired traveling along the M1 motorway one day. The M1 connects London to Leeds, passing through the town of Luton. - GoofsOne of the vegetable judges of Luton accuses Koenig and Maya of cannibalism for eating some of their fellow plants. Cannibalism, however, is defined as one individual of a species consuming all or part of another individual of the same species as food - the inhabitants of Luton are not of the same species as Koenig and Maya. - Quotes Maya: Are you alright? Commander John Koenig: Well, it only hurts when I laugh. Maya: Um? Commander John Koenig: It's an old Earth joke. Maya: It's not funny. - ConnectionsEdited from Elephant Gun (1958) Details Contribute to this page Suggest an edit or add missing content


--- [List of Space: 1999 episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Space: 1999, a British science fiction television series, ran for 48 episodes from 1975 to 1977. The first series of 24 episodes (often referred to as "Year One") premiered in the UK on 4 September 1975, though the first episode had begun production in 1973.
The various ITV franchises showed the episodes in different orders. The airdates shown below reflect the order of first UK broadcast. These dates and order are different from those in Australia, where the series premiered earlier, in July 1975.




--- [The Rules of Luton Episode Guide- Space: 1999 Catacombs] ---
The Rules of Luton A grim fight for survival takes place between Koenig and Maya and three weird aliens on a planet of living plants. ITC summary - Shooting script dated 15 April 1976. Revised 23, 26, 28 April, filmed 3 May-14 May 1976 - A "Double-Up Koenig" script- while Landau and Schell filmed on location, Bain and the other cast were filming The Mark Of Archanon on the studio sets. - The locations are Black Park (near Pinewood Studios) and H.F.Warner Ltd landfill site in Knowl Hill, Berkshire. - The script was written by producer Freiberger under a pen name, probably for the specific requirements of a double-up script. He took the name of the planet from a road sign on the way to work (Luton is an unglamorous industrial town outside London). The name caused much amusement to producer Gerry Anderson and the British crew. - Luton is a Bedfordshire town with an airport. Freiberger saw it on a roadsign and pronounced it "Lew-ton" instead of "Lut-on". It is very odd to British viewers. - The Romans used gladiatorial fights between criminals and slaves (often prisoners of war) as religious festivals and public entertainment. Constantine I abolished gladiatorial games in AD 325 although they continued for over a hundred years later. Trial by combat was a Norman legal concept introduced into English common law after 1066. Aggrieved parties could challenge those suspected of felony to trial by combat. God would ensure the righteous was the victor. It was condemned as early as 1190. It continued after 1215 for land law (in criminal law, trial by ordeal was halted by the Pope), declining gradually through the Middle Ages. It was not actually abolished until 1818. - Plants have no nervous system, so they cannot think, talk, scream, or move rapidly. They cannot create technology (to make the planet disappear). - In Luton society, all plants from very many species (vines, trees, berry bushes) have the same level of intelligence. This isn't true in the animal kingdom and it isn't likely to be true for plant species. Cannibalism is eating one's own species, so the Alphans are not cannibals. - All plants are competing for water and sunlight, and they would not be likely to cooperate. - Many plants are dependent on animals for pollination and seed dispersal. Flowers attract insects and birds to take nectar and transfer pollen. Berries and other fruit are intended to be eaten so animals will disperse the seeds. Without animals, flower and fruit plants will die out in a generation. The plants should encourage the Alphans to pick berries. - Matter transportation, as demonstrated by Alien Transport, is impossible. - Invisibility is impossible and impractical (dirt would soon reveal Alien Invisible, and as light passes through his transparent retinas he would be blind). - "American Indians used bows and arrows". Actually every society has since the Mesolithic. - The planet surface temperature is 73 degrees (ie. 22.2 Centigrade). It is implausible that the entire planet has the same temperature. - Psychon has one race, one religion, one government and no separation of classes. The absence of diversity suggests an extremely conformist regimented society. The lack of classes, essential to capitalism, indicates Psychon is a communist state that prohibits any division of labour. The dinosaur bones are therapods, which are carnivores (eat other animals). They are therefore no threat to the plants. Their bones are white and scattered, showing scavenger animals have picked their flesh clean. 892 days after leaving Earth orbit (Thu 21 Feb 2002). They have just passed through a 42 day space storm (approx. 850 days-start). The episode duration is less than 1 day. 0 fatalities. Alpha Technology: We see a colour commlock screen. It is also waterproof. Eagle 1 (Koenig); 4 (replacement) The refuelling arm is also in Space Warp and was a grab arm in The Exiles. The red pod is 2.5 inches/ 6cm long (it was sold in an internet auction for £255 in 2006). Kestrel, lion, Rottweiler dog - Maya can only hold a transformation for an hour. This contradicts The Taybor when she locks herself in a form, and also Seance Spectre when she is in a form for three hours. - Maya cannot transform directly from one animal into another. This contradicts The Taybor when she transforms directly from a dog into a ferret, plus numerous other episodes (and earlier in the episode she changes directly from the bird into the lion) - Maya is very selective about using her transformations. When the injured Koenig carries the lance, she could have transformed into an animal with the strength to easily carry the lance (and Koenig). Luton Aliens: Luton plants; 3 different species of humanoid aliens. The aliens must be advanced enough to develop interstellar spaceflight. All are clothed: boots and gloves are obvious. Alien Invisible has a ragged scarf, Alien Transport's sleeve is seen, Alien Strong's boots are very visible. They are given "abilities" by the judges of Luton to match the Alphans- transport, invisibility and strength. Cast: - We learn about a global war between races, classes and religions on Earth in 1987. This is not alluded to elsewhere, and the political debates in Breakaway and Dragon's Domain do not suggest much of a "new wonderful civilisation". - As Koenig and Maya swim across the lake, several unusual features are out of focus but just visible on the far bank. Among the items seen are a white post (a sign or life saver), and, marked above, a group of three or four people walking along the bank left to right (unclear in still, but visible in motion), a park bench, and a man in a canoe. - More observations - The story has the same plot as the Star Trek episode "Arena" by Gene L Coon, a gladiatorial battle at the end of which the victor refuses to kill his opponent. That story was in turn derived by Fredric Brown's 1944 short story Arena. The episode also has echoes of the Lost In Space episode "The Great Vegetable Rebellion", although Freiberger claims not to have seen it. - At the start of the episode, the oxygen link is stated to be critical in 4 hours. Presumably this is for 3 crew. For 1 crew (Tony) the return journey to Alpha could be up to 12 hours, but is likely to be less than 4 hours. Koenig considers briefly that they abort and return together. The episode clearly takes place within a single day, and Koenig and Maya do not intend to camp overnight until he returns. Thanks to Marcus Lindroos. - The larger isolated skeleton bones scattered on the floor of the valley are from a diplodocus, a Jurassic sauropod. The prop was created for the Disney film One of our Dinosaurs is Missing (1975, and filmed at Pinewood during the 1974). The skeleton was also used in the Tunisian desert for Star Wars (1977). See More observations According to Michael Richardson, the stock footage of the lion is from the 1958 movie Nor the Moon by Night, starring Patrick McGoohan (released in the US as Elephant Gun). Cinematography is by Harry Waxman. The location is Kruger National Park in South Africa. David Jackson on his role: They had this outfit for me which looked like a teddy bear and I had this big fight scene. I said 'It doesn't look very menacing. I mean, a teddy bear?' I said 'You've got this one alien who looks like a bird, like Osiris the god, and this other character. Why not make him the teddy bear, because he gets killed very quickly, and I could be... a lizard! So they got a lizard half mask for me, long, green and scaly, a long droopy moustache, long sort of patchy dark hair, and lots of black leather and crocodile skin! I was given the power of speech by the gods of the planet, whom I also played. I said 'If the gods of the planet gave me this voice, I would still have vocal cords that were tuned to whatever a crocodile-like beast's might be tuned to, and it would be rather like a person from Japan trying to speak English. So, the words should come out in a sort of strangulation, trying to get through those strange vocal cords. And I played it like that. External Links


--- [Space1999.org - Homage to the "Space: 1999" science fiction ...] ---
Episode Guide: Year Two Title: "The Rules Of Luton" Within this page: Overview | Backplot | Plot Synopsis | Unanswered Questions | Analyses/Observations | Comments | Memorable Lines Overview Koenig and Maya are forced to fight for their lives when Koenig accidentally kills intelligent plant-based lifeforms on the planet Luton. Production Number: 007 (Season Two) Original U.K. airing week: 21 October 1976 (ATV Midlands) Original U.S. airing week: 22 October 1976 (syndication) Written by Charles Woodgrove (pseudonym for executive producer Freddie Freiberger) Directed by Val Guest Backplot - In the year 1999, lunar nuclear waste storage dumps have exploded, due to magnetic radiation, sending Earth's moon into interstellar space. The inhabitants of Moonbase Alpha, unable to escape, are seeking a new home. - Following the visitation by the interstellar trader, the Taybor (and his S.S. Emporium ship), the Alphans are back to their "normal," daily routines. Plot Synopsis (From the original ITC Press Release.) A grim fight for survival takes place between Koenig and Maya and three weird Aliens on a planet of living plants. One thing is certain about the planet which the Moon is approaching. It is rich in vegetation - but terror looms ahead when Commander Koenig (MARTIN LANDAU) and Maya (CATHERINE SCHELL) investigate in an Eagle piloted by Tony Verdeschi (TONY ANHOLT). Instruments in the Eagle report a malfunction. Tony therefore returns to Moonbase Alpha to pick up a replacement, leaving Koenig and Maya on the planet. As they wander among trees, flowers and bushes, Koenig cannot resist the temptation to taste some berries while Maya picks a flower. Both scream out in agony and a voice thunders out, accusing them of being cannibals and murderers and warning them that they will be punished. A spectacular storm rages as the Thunder Voice tells them that they have destroyed life forms. The voice represents the Judges of Luton. They are trees. Koenig's plea of acting in ignorance meets with the challenge that this can only be proved in combat with other criminals from space who have also violated Luton's laws, with the promise that the survivors will be given their freedom. Their adversaries are aliens whose abilities gradually emerge: one (DAVID JACKSON), a strange, green-faced being of enormous strength, another (GODFREY JAMES) is able to transport himself by dematerializng and reappearing immediately where he wishes, and the third (ROY MARSDEN) possessed with the magic of invisibility. The winners of the eerie combat will be the survivors. Koenig and Maya, realizing that the odds are heavily against them, play for time by placing a ravine and then a river between themselves and the Aliens, but Koenig is seriously injured by a rock lance hurled at him. His strength is slowly ebbing as Maya uses her powers of transformation to help them, only to be caught, and faced with the risk of being crushed to death, when she changes into a bird. The weakened Koenig succeeds in making a weapon which enables him to knock out the Alien holding her and is able to rescue her, but hopes of their own rescue are fading as Tony searches for them in his Eagle. The planet itself has become invisible, although his instruments record that he is close to it. It is only when he almost crash lands that he realizes he has reached it... "SPACE 1999" - SERIES II CAST LIST EPISODE NO. 9 "THE RULES OF LUTON" DIRECTOR: VAL GUEST KOENIG - MARTIN LANDAU HELENA - BARBARA BAIN MAYA - CATHERINE SCHELL TONY VERDESCHI - TONY ANHOLT ALAN CARTER - NICK TATE YASKO - YASUKO NAGAZUMI 1ST OPERATIVE - ANNIE LAMBERT STRONG - DAVID JACKSON TRANSPORTER - GODFREY JAMES INVISIBLE - ROY MARSDEN Unanswered Questions Analyses/Observations Comments Memorable Lines "Cannibals! Murderers! You will be punished as cannibals and murderers deserve to be punished!" - One of the vegetation lifeforms of Luton Copyright 1999-2003 www.Space1999.org. All Rights Reserved. Legal notice. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License, in conjunction with our Open Source Content Model. This site uses XHTML and CSS and looks best with a standards compliant browser.
