=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bajo Nuevo Bank - Wikipedia]
On 19 November 2012, regarding Nicaraguan claims to the islands, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) found, unanimously, that the Republic of Colombia has sovereignty over both Bajo Nuevo and Serranilla Banks, although the judgment does not analyze or mention the competing claims of Jamaica or the United States. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bajo_Nuevo_Bank

[UN court rules Colombia has sovereignty over islands claimed by ...]
The principal judicial organ of the United Nations, the International Court of Justice (ICJ), today ruled that Colombia, and not Nicaragua, has sovereignty over seven disputed islands in the Caribbean Sea. In its judgement, which is final and binding, the Court found that Roncador, Quitasueño, Serrana, Serranilla, Bajo Nuevo, Cayo Bolivar and Alburquerque belonged to Colombia. The long ...
URL: https://news.un.org/en/story/2012/11/426062

[International Court of Justice Finds Colombia to Have Sovereignty Over ...]
The International Court of Justice (ICJ), the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, has rendered its Judgment in the case concerning the Territorial and Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v.
URL: https://maritime-executive.com/article/international-court-of-justice-finds-colombia-to-have-sovereignty-over-disputed-maritime-areas

[Territorial and Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia) - The Court ...]
Nov 19, 2012 · The Court concludes that Colombia, and not Nicaragua, has sovereignty over the islands at Alburquerque, Bajo Nuevo, East-Southeast Cays, Quitasueño, Roncador, Serrana and Serranilla.
URL: https://www.icj-cij.org/node/102086

[UN court rules Colombia has sovereignty over islands claimed by Nicaragua]
19 November 2012 - The principal judicial organ of the United Nations, the International Court of Justice (ICJ), today ruled that Colombia, and not Nicaragua, has sovereignty over seven disputed ...
URL: https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2012/11/mil-121119-unnews05.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bajo Nuevo Bank - Wikipedia] ---
Bajo Nuevo Bank, also known as the Petrel Islands (Spanish: Bajo Nuevo, Islas Petrel), is a small, uninhabited reef with some small grass-covered islets, located in the western Caribbean Sea at 15°53′N 78°38′W, with a lighthouse on Low Cay at 15°51′N 78°38′W. The closest neighboring land feature is Serranilla Bank, located 110 kilometres (68 miles) to the west.
The reef is currently subject to a sovereignty dispute involving Colombia, Jamaica, and the United States. On 19 November 2012, regarding Nicaraguan claims to the islands, the International Court of Justice (ICJ) found, unanimously, that the Republic of Colombia has sovereignty over both Bajo Nuevo and Serranilla Banks, although the judgment does not analyze or mention the competing claims of Jamaica or the United States.


--- [UN court rules Colombia has sovereignty over islands claimed by ...] ---
UN court rules Colombia has sovereignty over islands claimed by Nicaragua The principal judicial organ of the United Nations, the International Court of Justice (ICJ), today ruled that Colombia, and not Nicaragua, has sovereignty over seven disputed islands in the Caribbean Sea. In its judgement, which is final and binding, the Court found that Roncador, Quitasueño, Serrana, Serranilla, Bajo Nuevo, Cayo Bolivar and Alburquerque belonged to Colombia. The long-running territorial and maritime dispute between the two countries, first brought before the ICJ in 2001, also concerned the maritime delimitation between them. As part of today’s ruling, the Court – which is based in The Hague – proceeded to delimit the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zones of Nicaragua and Colombia in the area lying 200 nautical miles off the Nicaraguan coasts. In a 2007 judgment, the ICJ had already held that it had no jurisdiction with regard to Nicaragua’s claim to sovereignty over the islands of San Andrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina, because this question had been determined by a 1928 treaty by which Nicaragua recognized Colombian sovereignty over these islands. Established in 1945 under the UN Charter, the ICJ – sometimes referred to as the World Court – settles legal disputes between States and gives advisory opinions on legal questions that have been referred to it by authorized UN organs or specialized agencies.


--- [International Court of Justice Finds Colombia to Have Sovereignty Over ...] ---
No content


--- [Territorial and Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia) - The Court ...] ---
INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE Peace Palace, Carnegieplein 2, 2517 KJ The Hague, Netherlands Tel.: +31 (0)70 302 2323 Fax: +31 (0)70 364 9928 Website: www.icj-cij.org Press Release Unofficial 2012/33 No. Territorial and Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia) The Court finds that Colombia has sovereignty over the maritime features in dispute and draws a single maritime boundary THE HAGUE, 19November2012. The Internatio nal Court of Justice (ICJ), the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, has today rendered its Judgment in the case concerning the Territorial and Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia). In its Judgment, which is final, without appeal and binding on the Parties, the Court, (1) finds, unanimously, that the Republic of Colombia has sovereignty over the islands at Alburquerque, Bajo Nuevo, East-Southeast Cays, Quitasueño, Roncador, Serrana and Serranilla; (2) finds, by fourteen votes to one, admissible the Republic of Nicaragua’s claim contained in its final submission I (3) requesting the Court to adjudge and declare that “[t]he appropriate form of delimitation, within the geographical and lega l framework constituted by the mainland coasts of Nicaragua and Colombia, is a continental shelf boundary dividing by equal parts the overlapping entitlements to a continental shelf of both Parties”; (3) finds, unanimously, that it cannot uphold th e Republic of Nicaragua’s claim contained in its final submission I (3); (4) decides, unanimously, that the line of the single maritime boundary delimiting the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zon es of the Republic of Nicaragua and the Republic of Colombia shall follow geodetic lines connecting the points with co-ordinates: Latitude north Longitude west 1. 13° 46' 35.7" 81° 29' 34.7" 2. 13° 31' 08.0" 81° 45' 59.4" 3. 13° 03' 15.8" 81° 46' 22.7" 4. 12° 50' 12.8" 81° 59' 22.6" 5. 12° 07' 28.8" 82° 07' 27.7" 6. 12° 00' 04.5" 81° 57' 57.8" From point1, the maritime boundary line sh all continue due east along the parallel of latitude (co-ordinates 13° 46' 35.7" N) until it reaches the 200-nautical-mile limit from the baselines from which the breadth of the territorialsea of Nicaragua is measured. From point6 - 2 - (with co-ordinates 12° 00' 04.5" N and 81° 57' 57.8" W), located on a 12-nautical-mile envelope of arcs around Alburquerque, the maritime boundary line shall continue along that envelope of arcs until it reaches point 7 (with co-ordinates 12° 11' 53. 5" N and 81° 38' 16.6" W) which is located on the parallel passing through the southernmost point on the 12-nautical-mile envelope of arcs around East-Southeast Cays. The boundary line then follows that parallel until it reaches the southernmost point of the 12-nautical-mile envelope of ar cs around East-Southeast Cays at point8 (with co-ordinates 12°11'53.5"N and 81° 28'29.5"W) and continues along that envelope of arcs until its most eastward point (point 9 with co-ordinates 12° 24' 09.3" N and 81° 14' 43.9" W). From that point the boundary line follows the parallel of latitude (co-ordinates 12°24'09.3"N) until it reaches the 200–nautical–mile limit from the baselin es from which the territorial sea of Nicaragua is measured; (5) decides, unanimously, that the single maritime boundary around Quitasueño and Serrana shall follow, respectively, a 12-nautical-mile envelope of arcs measured from QS32 and from low-tide elevations located within 12nauticalm iles from QS32, and a 12-nautical-mile envelope of arcs measured from Serrana Cay and the other cays in its vicinity; (6) rejects, unanimously, the Republic of Nicaragua’s claim cont ained in its final submissions requesting the Court to declare that the Republic of Colombia is not acting in accordance with its obligations under internationa l law by preventing the Republic of Nicaragua from having access to natural resources to the east of the 82nd meridian. ___________ 1. Sovereignty The Court recalls that the dispute between th e Parties concerns sovereignty over maritime features located in the Caribbean Sea, namely, the Alburquerque Cays, East-Southeast Cays, Roncador, Serrana, Quitasueño, Se rranilla and Bajo Nuevo. All these remain above water at high tide and thus, as islands, they are capable of appr opriation. However, as to Quitasueño, the Court finds that it comprises only one tiny island, referred to as QS 32, and a number of low-tide elevations (features which are above water at low tide but submerged at high tide). The Court then notes that, under the terms of the 1928 Treaty concerning Territorial Questions at Issue between Colombia and Nicar agua, Colombia has sovereignty not only over SanAndrés, Providencia and SantaCatalina, but also over the other islands, islets and reefs “forming part” of the San Andrés Archipelago. Thus , in order to determine sovereignty, the Court must first ascertain what constitutes the San Andr és Archipelago. The Court, however, concludes that neither the 1928 Treaty nor the historical reco rds is conclusive as to the composition of that Archipelago. The Court therefore proceeds to examine arguments and evidence which are not based on the composition of the Archipelago under the 1928 Treaty. The Court finds that neither Nicaragua nor Colombia has established that it had title to th e disputed maritime features by virtue of utipossidetis juris (a principle according to which, upon independence, new States inherit territories and boundaries of former colonial provinces), because nothing clearly indicates whether these features were attributed to the colonial pr ovinces of Nicaragua or of Colombia. The Court therefore turns to the question whether sovereignt y can be established on the basis of a State’s acts manifesting a display of authority on a given territo ry (effectivités). The Court finds that for many decades Colombia continuously and consistently acted à titre de souverain in respect of the maritime features in dispute. This exercise of sovereign authority was public and there is no evidence that it met with any protest from Nicaragua prior to 1969, when the dispute crystallized. - 3 - Moreover, the evidence of Colombia’s acts of admi nistration with respect to the islands is in contrast to the absence of any evidence of acts à titr e de souverain on the part of Nicaragua. The facts thus provide very strong support for Colo mbia’s claim of sovere ignty over the maritime features in dispute. The Court also notes that, while not being evidence of sovereignty, Nicaragua’s conduct with regard to the maritime features in dispute, the practice of third States and maps afford some support to Colombia’s claim. The Court concludes that Colombia, and not Nicaragua, has sovereignty over the islands at Alburquerque, Bajo Nuevo, East-Southeast Cays, Quitasueño, Roncador, Serrana and Serranilla. 2. Admissibility of Nicaragua’s claim for delimitation of a continental shelf extending beyond 200 nautical miles The Court notes that in its Application and Memorial, Nicaragua requested the Court to determine the “single maritime boundary” between the continental shelf areas and exclusive economic zones appertaining respectively to Nicaragua and Colombia in the form of a median line between themainland coasts of the two States. In its Reply and in its final submission I(3) Nicaragua requested the Court to effect a contin ental shelf boundary dividing by equal parts the overlapping entitlements of the Parties ⎯ extended continental shelf of Nicaragua beyond 200nauticalmiles and 200-nautical-mile continental shelf of Colombia. This is a new claim, but this fact does not, in itself, render the claim inadmissible. This claim still concerns the delimitation of the continental shelf, arises directly out of the Parties’ dispute and does not transform its subject-matter. The Court concludes that the claim contained in final submission I(3) by Nicaragua is admissible. 3. Consideration of Nicaragua’s claim for de limitation of a continental shelf extending beyond 200 nautical miles The Court observes that, in its recent jurisp rudence, it has stated that “any claim of continental shelf rights beyond 200 miles [by a State party to the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)] must be in accordance with Article76 of UNCLOS and reviewed by the Commission on the Limits of th e Continental Shelf”. Given the object and purpose of UNCLOS, as stipulated in its Preamble, the fact that Colombia is not a party thereto does not relieve Nicaragua of its obligations unde r Article 76. The Court notes that Nicaragua submitted to the Commission only “Preliminary Info rmation” which, by its own admission, falls short of meeting the requirements for the Commissi on to be able to make a recommendation. As the Court was not presented with any further inform ation, it finds that, in the present proceedings, Nicaragua has not established that it has a contin ental margin that extends far enough to overlap with Colombia’s 200-nautical-mile entitlement to the continental shelf, measured from Colombia’s mainland coast. The Court thus is not in a pos ition to delimit the boundary between an extended continental shelf of Nicaragua and Colombia’s continental shelf. The Court concludes that Nicaragua’s claim contained in its final submission I (3) cannot be upheld. 4. Maritime boundary The Court notes that notwithstanding its decision regarding Nicaragua’s final submissionI(3), it is still called upon to effect a delimitation between the overlapping maritime entitlements of Colombia and Nicaragua within 200 nautical miles of the Nicaraguan coast. The Court begins by determining what the relevant coasts of the Parties are, namely, those coasts the projections of which overlap. For Nicara gua, the relevant coast is its whole coast with the exception of the short stretch of coast near Punta de Perlas. For Colombia, the relevant coast is - 4 - the entire coastline of its islands, except Quitasueño, Serranilla and Bajo Nuevo. The Court then considers the extent of the relevant maritime ar ea in which the potential entitlements of the Parties overlap. This area extends 200nautical miles ea stwards from the Nicaraguan coast. In the north and south, the limits of the relevant area were determined in such a way so as not to encroach upon any existing boundaries or interests of third States (see sketch-map No. 7: The relevant maritime area as identified by the Court). To effect the delimitation, the Court follows the three-stage methodology employed in its case law. First, the Court selects base points and constr ucts a provisional median line between the Nicaraguan coast and the western coasts of the relevant Colombian islands, which are opposite to the Nicaraguan coast (see sketch-map No. 8: Construction of the provisional median line). Secondly, the Court examines the relevant circumstances which may require an adjustment or shifting of the provisional median line to produce an equitable result. It notes that the substantial disparity between the relevant Colombian coast and that of Nicaragua (1:8.2), as well as the need to avoid any cut-off effect of the delimitation line vis- à-vis the Parties’ coastal projections, are such circumstances. The Court further notes that, while legitimate security concerns will be borne in mind in determining whether the provisional median line should be adjusted or shifted, the conduct of the Parties, issues of access to natural resources and delimitations already effected in the area are not relevant circumstances in the present case. Having thus identified the relevant circumstan ces applicable in the present case, the Court proceeds by way of shifting the provisional median line. In this context, the Court draws a distinction between that part of the relevant ar ea which lies between the Nicaraguan mainland and the western coasts of Alburquerque Cays, San A ndrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina, where the relationship is one of opposite coasts, and the part which lies to the east of those islands, where the relationship is more complex. In the first we stern part of the relevant area, the relevant circumstances call for the provisional median line to be shifted eastwards. For this purpose, the base points located on the Nicaraguan and Colombia n islands, respectively, should have different weights, namely, a weighting of one to each of th e Colombian base points and a weighting of three to each of the Nicaraguan base points. The weighted line, constructed on this basis, has a curved shape with a large number of turning points (see sk etch-map No. 9: Construction of the weighted line). The Court therefore reduces the number of turning points and connects them by geodetic lines (see sketch-map No. 10: The simplified weighted line). The Court considers, however, that to extend that line further north and south would not lead to an equitable result because it would still leave Co lombia with a significantly larger share of the relevant area than that accorded to Nicaragua, not withstanding the fact that Nicaragua’s relevant coast is more than eight times the length of Co lombia’s relevant coas t; and it would cut off Nicaragua from the areas east of the principal Co lombian islands into which the Nicaraguan coast projects. The Court considers that an equitable result is achieved by continuing the boundary line along the parallels of latitude to 200nautical m iles from the Nicaraguan coast . In the north, this line follows the parallel passing through the norther nmost point of the 12-nautical-mile territorial sea of Roncador. In the south, the maritime boundary will first follow the 12–nautical–mile territorial sea of Alburquerque Cays and East-Southeast Cays and then, from the most eastward point of the latter’s territorial sea, the paralle l of latitude. As Quitasueño and Serrana would consequently be left on the Nicaraguan side of the boundary line, the line of the maritime boundary around each of these features follows the 12-na utical-mile territorial sea around them (see sketch-map No. 11: Course of the maritime boundary). - 5 - Thirdly, the Court notes that the boundary linehas the effect of dividing the relevant area between the Parties in a ratio of approximately 1:3.44 in Nicaragua’s favour, while the ratio of relevant coasts is approximately 1:8.2. The ques tion therefore is whether, in the circumstances of the present case, this disproportion is so great as to render theresult inequitable. The Court concludes that, taking account of all the circum stances of the present case, the result achieved by the maritime delimitation does not entail such a disproportionality as to create an inequitable result. 5. Nicaragua’s request for a declaration In addition to its claims regarding a maritim e boundary, in its final submissions, Nicaragua requested that the Court adjudge and declare that “Colombia is not acting in accordance with her obligations under international law by stopping and otherwise hindering Nicaragua from accessing and disposing of her natural resources to the east of the 82nd meridian”. The Court observes that Nicaragua’s request for this declaration is made in the context of proceedings regarding a maritime boundary which ha d not been settled prior to the decision of the Court. The consequence of the Court’s Judgment is that the maritime boundary between Nicaragua and Colombia throughout the relevant area has now b een delimited as between the Parties. In this regard, the Court observes that the Judgment attribut es to Colombia part of the maritime spaces in respect of which Nicaragua seeks a declaration re garding access to natural resources. In this context, the Court considers that Nicaragua’s claim is unfounded. Composition of the Court The Court was composed as follows: President Tomka; Vice-President Sepúlveda-Amor; Judges Owada, Abraham, Keith, Bennouna, Skotni kov, Cançado Trindade, Yusuf, Greenwood, Xue, Donoghue, Sebutinde; Judges ad hoc Mensah, Cot; Registrar Couvreur. JOdge WADA appends a dissenting opinion to the Judgment of the Court; Judge BRAHAM appends a separate opinion to the Judgment of the Court; Judges K EITH and X UE append declarations to the Judgment of the Court; Judge D ONOGHUE appends a separate opinion to the Judgment of the Court; Judges ad hoc M ENSAH and C OT append declarations to the Judgment of the Court. * A summary of the Judgment appears in the document “Summary No.2012/5”. This press release, the summary, and the full text of the Judgment can be found on the Court’s website (www.icj-cij.org), under the heading “Cases”. ___________ Note: The Court’s press releases do not constitute official documents. ___________ - 6 - The International Court of Justice (ICJ) is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. It was established by the United Nations Char ter in June1945 and began its activities in April1946. The seat of the Court is at the Peace Palace in The Hague (Netherlands). Of the six principal organs of the United Nations, it is the only one not located in New York. The Court has a twofold role: first, to settle, in accordance with in ternational law, legal disputes submitted to it by States (its judgments have binding force and are without appeal for the parties concerned); and, second, to give advisory opinions on legal questi ons referred to it by duly authorized United Nations organs and agencies of the system. The Court is composed of 15judges elected for a nine-year term by the General Assembly and the Security Council of the United Nations. Independent of the United Nations Secretariat, it is assisted by a Registry, its own international secretariat, whose activities are both judicial and diplomatic, as well as administrative. The official languages of the Court are French and English. Also known as the “World Court”, it is the only court of a universal character with general jurisdiction. The ICJ, a court open only to States for cont entious proceedings, and to certain organs and institutions of the United Nations system for advisory proceedings, should not be confused with the other ⎯ mostly criminal ⎯ judicial institutions based in The Hague and adjacent areas, such as the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yu goslavia (ICTY, an adhoc court created by the Security Council), the International Criminal Court (ICC, the first permanent international criminal court, established by treaty, which does not bel ong to the United Nations system), the Special Tribunal for Lebanon (STL, an independent judicial body composed of Lebanese and international judges, which is not a United Nations tribunal an d does not form part of the Lebanese judicial system), or the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA, an independent institution which assists in the establishment of arbitral tribunals and fac ilitates their work, in acco rdance with the Hague Convention of 1899). ___________ Information Department: Mr. Andrey Poskakukhin, First Secretary of the Court, Head of Department (+31 (0)70 302 2336) Mr. Boris Heim, Information Officer (+31 (0)70 302 2337) Ms Joanne Moore, Associate Information Officer (+31 (0)70 302 2394) Ms Genoveva Madurga, Administrative Assistant (+31 (0)70 302 2396) Annex to Press Release 2012/33 ⎯ Sketch-map No. 7: The relevant maritime area as identified by the Court; ⎯ Sketch-map No. 8: Construction of the provisional median line; ⎯ Sketch-map No. 9: Construction of the weighted line; ⎯ Sketch-map No. 10: The simplified weighted line; ⎯ Sketch-map No. 11: Course of the maritime boundary. -89- WGS 84 COLOMBIA Sketch-map No. 7: for illustrative purposes only. This sketch-map has been prepared30' N) as identified by the Court The relevant maritime area A IA I B A M M LO JA O C Bajo Nuevo COLOMBIA JOINTAREA REGIME Colombia / Jamaica CARIBBEAN SEA PANAMA Roncador Serrana Serranilla East-Southeast Cays A Quitasueño S U R G A U R ProSanta Catalina ACI MA D A San Andrés R NA N I Cays ATS P OH N COLOMBIA O Alburquerque COSTA RICA C Cays Miskitos Island Island Little CorGreat Corn RICA COSTA HONDURAS NICARAGUA - 109 - Outline of a bank JOINT SerranilREGIME AREA URAS Colombia / Jamaica HONDRAUA NIA HONDURAS Edinburgh Reef Muerto Cay Miskitos Quitasueño Cays Serrana Ned Thomas Cay Roncador Roca Providencia/ NICARAGUA Tyra Santa Catalina San Andrés Little Corn East-Southeast Cays Island Great Corn Alburquerque Island Cays CARIBBEAN SEA COLOMBIA PANAMA COLOMBIA COSTA RICA IC Sketch-map No. 8: ARMA OS NA Construction of the C P provisional median line COSTA RICA This sketch-map has been prepared for illustrative purposes only. Mercator Projection (12° 30' N) WGS 84 PANAMA - 124 - Outline of a bank JOINT SerranilREGIME AREA DURAA Colombia / Jamaica HONARAU NI HONDURAS Edinburgh Reef Muerto Cay Miskitos Quitasueño Cays Serrana Ned Thomas Cay Roncador Providencia/ NICARAGUA Roca Tyra Santa Catalina Little Corn San Andrés East-Southeast Cays Island Great Corn Alburquerque Island Cays CARIBBEAN SEA COLOMBIA PANAMA COLOMBIA COSTA RICA IC Sketch-map No. 9: TARMA OS NA Construction of C P the weighted line COSTA RICA This sketch-map has been prepared for illustrative purposes only. Mercator Projection (12° 30' N) WGS 84 PANAMA - 125 - Sketch-map No. 10: 0 The simplified 1 weighted line This sketch-map has been prepared for illustrative purposes only. Mercator Projection (12° 30' N)2 WGS 84 Providencia/ Santa Catalina 3 4 San Andrés East-Southeast Cays Alburquerque Cays 5 Outline of a bank - 127 - A I I B Outline of a beasntkablished (not in force)77of 1980 A L J O C COLOMBIA Bajo Nuevo CARIBBEAN SEA WGS 84 Course of the A JOIREGIME Sketch-map No. 11:e for illustrative purposes only. Colombia / Jamaica B This sketch-map has been prepared30' N) Roncador Serrana Serranilla 9 East-Southeast Cays Quitasueño 8 A Providencia/ S U Santa Catalina 7 A G 1 A A RU AR CI MA D A Cays RA NAP O I 2 3 San Andrés TS H N OC 6 Alburquerque COCOSTA RICA 4 5 Cays Miskitos Island Little Corn Island Great Corn COSTA RICA NICARAGUA HONDURAS The Court finds that Colombia has sovereignty over the maritime features in dispute and draws a single maritime boundary Territorial and Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia) - The Court finds that Colombia has sovereignty over the maritime features in dispute and draws a single maritime boundary


--- [UN court rules Colombia has sovereignty over islands claimed by Nicaragua] ---
UN court rules Colombia has sovereignty over islands claimed by Nicaragua 19 November 2012 – The principal judicial organ of the United Nations, the International Court of Justice (ICJ), today ruled that Colombia, and not Nicaragua, has sovereignty over seven disputed islands in the Caribbean Sea. In its judgement, which is final and binding, the Court found that Roncador, Quitasueño, Serrana, Serranilla, Bajo Nuevo, Cayo Bolivar and Alburquerque belonged to Colombia. The long-running territorial and maritime dispute between the two countries, first brought before the ICJ in 2001, also concerned the maritime delimitation between them. As part of today’s ruling, the Court – which is based in The Hague – proceeded to delimit the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zones of Nicaragua and Colombia in the area lying 200 nautical miles off the Nicaraguan coasts. In a 2007 judgment, the ICJ had already held that it had no jurisdiction with regard to Nicaragua’s claim to sovereignty over the islands of San Andrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina, because this question had been determined by a 1928 treaty by which Nicaragua recognized Colombian sovereignty over these islands. Established in 1945 under the UN Charter, the ICJ – sometimes referred to as the World Court – settles legal disputes between States and gives advisory opinions on legal questions that have been referred to it by authorized UN organs or specialized agencies. | NEWSLETTER | | Join the GlobalSecurity.org mailing list | | | |
