=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murder of Moriah Wilson - Wikipedia]
Anna Moriah Wilson was born on May 18, 1996, in Littleton, New Hampshire, the daughter of Eric and Karen (née Cronin) Wilson and the sister of Matthew Wilson. She grew up in Kirby, Vermont. Wilson graduated from Burke Mountain Academy in 2014, and from Dartmouth College in 2019 with a Bachelor of Engineering (BE). Raised in a family of athletes, Wilson developed a passion for cycling as a ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Moriah_Wilson

[Anna Moriah Wilson Obituary | Deaths | caledonianrecord.com]
Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson, age 25, of Locust Ridge Road, went home to be with our Lord and Savior Jesus on May 11, 2022. Moriah passed away in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the ...
URL: https://www.caledonianrecord.com/community/deaths/anna-moriah-wilson-obituary/article_6ad624b6-0322-5c33-a27f-6b295f325753.html

[Murder of Moriah Wilson - crimetimelines.com]
Moriah Wilson Anna Moriah Wilson was born on May 18, 1996, in Littleton, New Hampshire, the daughter of Eric and Karen (née Cronin) Wilson and the sister of Matthew Wilson. She grew up in Kirby, Vermont. Wilson graduated from Burke Mountain Academy in 2014, and from Dartmouth College in 2019 with a Bachelor of Engineering (BE).
URL: https://crimetimelines.com/murder-of-moriah-wilson/

[Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson (1996-2022) - Find a Grave Memorial]
Murder victim. Anna Moriah Mo Wilson was murdered in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in...
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/240063854/anna_moriah-wilson

[Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson Obituary May 11, 2022]
May 11, 2022 — She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving ...
URL: https://www.caledonialifeservices.com/obituaries/anna-wilson


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murder of Moriah Wilson - Wikipedia] ---
On the night of May 11, 2022, professional cyclist Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson was fatally shot by Kaitlin Marie Armstrong at a friend's home in Austin, Texas. Armstrong, a yoga instructor and licensed Realtor, committed the crime out of jealousy triggered by Wilson's romantic encounter with her on-and-off boyfriend, pro cyclist Colin Strickland. Prior to her conviction, Armstrong had made flight attempts both as a wanted person and as a detainee: she spent 43 days at large until her capture in Costa Rica, where authorities said she had used different names and changed her appearance to set up a new life.  Over a year later, she attempted to flee from custody on the eve of her trial.




--- [Anna Moriah Wilson Obituary | Deaths | caledonianrecord.com] ---
No content


--- [Murder of Moriah Wilson - crimetimelines.com] ---
Murder of Moriah Wilson Case Files Moriah Wilson Anna Moriah Wilson was born on May 18, 1996, in Littleton, New Hampshire, the daughter of Eric and Karen (née Cronin) Wilson and the sister of Matthew Wilson. She grew up in Kirby, Vermont. Wilson graduated from Burke Mountain Academy in 2014, and from Dartmouth College in 2019 with a Bachelor of Engineering (BE). Mo Wilson grew up in Kirby, Vermont. Her father, Eric Wilson, was in the U.S. ski team, while her aunt, Laura, competed in the Olympics as a cross-country ski racer Murder of Moriah Willson Murder of Moriah Willson Timeline Moriah was a rising star in off-road cycling. In the year leading up to her death, she had begun posting impressive results at some of the sport’s most competitive events. Just days before her final race, she left her engineering job at Specialized to pursue bike racing full-time. In the cycling world, everyone knew her as Mo. She arrived in Austin on May 10, having made a last-minute decision to compete in Gravel Locos, a grueling 155-mile race in Hico. The weather was warm and heavy with humidity. Her friend Cash picked her up at the airport, and the two were so thrilled to see each other that they forgot Moriah’s suitcase on the baggage carousel. That night, they shared a meal from an Italian food truck called Patrizi’s and stayed up talking late into the night in Cash’s king-size bed. The next day, Moriah texted a fellow pro cyclist, Colin Strickland, to see if he wanted to ride. Strickland was dating Kaitlin Armstrong at the time. He and Moriah had become friends through gravel racing, though they’d briefly dated in October 2021 during a break in his relationship with Armstrong. Moments after Colin Strickland dropped Moriah Wilson off at her friend’s apartment in Austin on the night of May 11, a neighbor’s surveillance camera captured Kaitlin Armstrong’s SUV arriving at the residence, according to an arrest warrant. Authorities later found Wilson inside the apartment with multiple gunshot wounds. On the night of May 11, 2022, professional cyclist Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson was fatally shot by Kaitlin Marie Armstrong at a friend’s home in Austin, Texas. Armstrong, a yoga instructor and licensed realtor, committed the crime out of jealousy triggered by Wilson’s romantic encounter with her on-and-off boyfriend, pro cyclist Colin Strickland. Police found Anna Moriah Wilson dead on the bathroom floor of a friend’s Austin home, with at least three gunshot wounds—two to the head and one to the chest. According to investigators, the chest wound appeared to have been inflicted after she was already lying supine on the floor. There was an exit wound on her back, and a bullet was discovered beneath her, lodged in chipped tile. Wilson also had lacerations on her right finger and beneath her chin. Shell casings marked “9mm JAG” were recovered from the scene. Spent shell casings recovered at the scene were traced back to a handgun that police later found at the home Armstrong shared with Strickland, further linking her to the crime. On May 14, Armstrong allegedly flew to New York. There, she reportedly met up with her sister, Christie Armstrong, at a campground. A man staying at the site told Fox News Digital that he saw Kaitlin “right before the whole thing blew up,” and that law enforcement arrived shortly after she left. When a reporter later called the campground and identified himself, a woman—listed online as part of the communications team—answered the phone, then abruptly hung up. In the days leading up to the murder, Colin Strickland—who had previously dated Wilson and was in a relationship with Kaitlin Armstrong—had reportedly given Armstrong $450,000 as investment capital. According to court documents, he asked for the money back, but she fled the state before returning it. On May 18, 2022—just days after Moriah Wilson was killed—Kaitlin Armstrong boarded a flight from New Jersey to Costa Rica, according to the U.S. Marshals Service. Investigators later revealed that she used someone else’s passport to leave the country. Prior to her escape, on May 12, police had searched Armstrong’s belongings and found multiple passports in her purse, along with two cellphones that were seized as part of the investigation. According to Inside Edition, the owner of a beachfront hostel in Costa Rica where Armstrong had been staying discovered two passports in her lockbox—one belonging to her, and the other to her sister, Christie Armstrong. Investigators also noted that Armstrong had previously visited an unidentified gun range with her sister, reportedly to learn how to use a firearm, as documented in the arrest warrants. On the night of her murder, Moriah Wilson had spent time with Colin Strickland, with whom she shared a brief romantic history. The two allegedly went swimming at Deep Eddy Pool and had dinner at Pool Burger across the street—plans made without the knowledge of Strickland’s then-girlfriend, Kaitlin Armstrong. Wilson, who lived in California, was in Austin ahead of a bike race and staying at a friend’s home. According to investigators, Armstrong became enraged and jealous upon learning about Wilson and Strickland’s past relationship. An anonymous tipster described her emotional state as “furious.” Surveillance footage would later place Armstrong’s black Jeep near the crime scene. A neighbor’s security camera captured the vehicle pulling up to the house where Wilson was staying—approximately one minute after Strickland dropped her off and drove away on his motorcycle. This footage would become a critical piece of evidence linking Armstrong to the scene. According to court documents, Colin Strickland purchased two handguns from the same gun store in Austin—one of which was later matched to the 9mm shell casings recovered at the scene of Moriah Wilson’s murder. Investigators secured search warrants for Strickland’s DNA, his phone, two phones belonging to Kaitlin Armstrong, her MacBook Pro, and a separate property she owned in Austin—distinct from the residence she shared with Strickland. One warrant revealed that Strickland texted Armstrong at 8:36 p.m. on the night of the murder, just one minute before surveillance footage captured Armstrong’s black Jeep arriving outside the house where Wilson was staying. Police allege that Armstrong returned home shortly after 9:21 p.m. Strickland’s account of his movements that evening was reportedly supported by surveillance video. He has not publicly commented. When authorities finally located Armstrong in Costa Rica, she had drastically altered her appearance. Known for her long auburn hair—voted “best hair” in her high school class of 2005—she had cut it to shoulder length and dyed it brown. Photographs also suggested changes to her facial features, though officials have not confirmed whether she underwent plastic surgery during her time on the run. MO WILSON Case file Murder of Mo Wilson Timeline Kaitlyn Armstrong October 2021 - Strickland meets Moriah Wilson at a cycling race in Bentonville, Arkansas. He and Kaitlin Armstrong break up shortly after the race. - Days later, Strickland learns Wilson is in Austin for another race and they begin dating. November 2021 - During this time, Armstrong allegedly contacts Wilson directly to confront her about the relationship, which Strickland describes as “strange and unnerving.” Strickland did not tell Armstrong about the relationship with Mo. - Wilson eventually leaves Austin for another race. She and Strickland part on good but casual terms. December 2021 - Strickland and Armstrong rekindle their romantic relationship. He characterizes his ongoing relationship with Wilson as professional and friendly, involving texts about gear, races, and sponsorships. - To avoid conflict with Armstrong, Strickland changes Wilson’s name in his phone to “Christine Wall” and deletes their message history. May 10, 2022 Moriah Wilson arrives in Austin, Texas, ahead of the Gravel Locos race. A friend who lives on Maple Ave picks her up from the airport. May 11, 2022 Collin Strickland texts with Mo Wilson and the two meet up to swim at Deep Eddy Pool and then grab burgers and beers at Pool Burger. Strickland did not tell Kaitlin Armstrong of these plans due to “past experiences with her.” But unbeknownst to him, Armstrong had access to the Apple account connected to the phone he used to text Wilson. - 9:00 AM – Armstrong & Strickland leave home area for bike ride - 10:37 AM – Colin’s phone continues to Lockhart and Kaitlin Armstrong arrives home - 12:41 PM – Moriah text to Collin S – “Do you have plans tonight? Cash has dinner with some college friends who are visiting so I’m on my own” Text from Moriah comes to Colin’s phone from “Christine Wall” - 1:31 PM – Moriah leaves Maple Ave for bike ride. - 1:50 PM – Collin Strickland arrives home from ride - 1:53 PM – Kaitlin Armstrong’s jeep is near her & Collin S’ home - 2:07PM-2:26 PM Kaitlin Armstrong’s jeep & phone stationary around S. Lamar Blv - 2:30 PM – Colin leaves for dentist appt - 3:15PM – Collin S text Mo Wilson: Want to go swimming? Maybe swimming & a beverage - 3:41PM – Collin S to Mo Wilson: What do you think? 3:47PM – Mo W to Collin S: Sounds great. I’m dying out here & sends selfie of her on bike - 4:07PM – Collin S to Mo W: Oh god. you are still out??? 4:10 PM – Mo Wilson to Collin S: Yea - 4:12 PM – Collin S to Mo Wilson: when are you done? want a moto ride - 4:23 PM – Kaitlin Armstrong’s jeep stationary for hour 5:30 PM – Wilson’s friend leaves the Maple Ave residence. Mo Wilson texts that she’s meeting Colin Strickland to go swimming. Wilson leaves with Strickland to swim at Deep Eddy Pool. - 5:40 PM – Collin Strickland arrives to pick up Moriah. Mo W text to Collin S: “What’s your timing?” - 5:43PM – Collin S to Mo W: Heeere Jesus the traffic - 5:55 PM – Moriah W enters door lock code as leaving - 6:09 PM – Collin S & Mo Wilson phones arrive at Deep Eddy Pool - 6:21 PM – Kaitlin Armstrong jeep at home - 6:24 PM – Kaitlin Armstrong calls Collin Strickland - 6:25 PM – Kaitlin Armstrong to Collin S: Lmk if you want me to meet for food to dissect these discovery responses. Will be done with my appointment by 7:20 - 6:57 PM – Collin S, Mow W to Pool Burger - 7:00 PM – Colin orders food, drink @ Pool Burger - 7:04 PM – 7:14 PM Kaitlin Armstrong’s jeep starts from parking area behind the businesses on S Lamar Blvd just south of Westrock Dr, track 99 starts Kaitlin A jeep continues north along S. Lamar Blvd - 7:17 PM – Kaitlin Armstrong text to Collin S: “Fini” - 8:16 PM – Strickland and Wilson leave Pool Burger on his motorcycle. - 8:26 PM – A vehicle believed to be Armstrong’s drives near Maple Ave. - 8:35 PM – Collin Strickland drops Wilson off at the Maple Ave residence. - 8:36 PM – Mo Wilson enters the residence using her unique electronic door code. - 8:37 PM – Armstrong’s black SUV is seen approaching and slowing down near the Maple Ave residence. - 8:48 PM – Surveillance video captures Strickland driving 8 miles away on the S I-35 frontage road. - 9:21 PM – Collin Strickland is in the garage working on his bicycles when Armstrong arrives back home in the black SUV. - 9:54 PM – Wilson’s friend returns home and finds the front door unlocked. - 9:56 PM – The friend discovers Wilson unresponsive on the bathroom floor and calls 9-1-1. - 10:10 PM – First responders pronounce Wilson deceased at the scene. May 12, 2022 The Travis County Medical Examiner performed an autopsy and determined her cause of death to be from multiple gunshot wounds and ruled her death a homicide. 9:20 AM – Police make contact with Colin Strickland. He gives a formal interview and admits to knowing Wilson and their brief romantic history. - Search warrant executed at Fort Clark Drive residence recovers two firearms, two phones, and Armstrong’s passport. 1:14 PM: Kailin Armstrong was questioned by Austin police about Wilson’s murder after they discovered an open misdemeanor warrant. During the interview, officers showed her surveillance footage of her SUV near the crime scene just one minute after Wilson entered the apartment. Armstrong reportedly admitted, “it doesn’t look good,” and offered no explanation for the vehicle’s presence. - Kaitlin Armstrong, a suspect in the murder of Moriah Wilson, was mistakenly released from custody due to a discrepancy between her date of birth on an old arrest warrant and the date of birth in the police department’s report management system May 13, 2022 - Strickland last contact with Kaitlin Armstrong was on May 13, 2022. - Kaitlin Armstrong sold her black Jeep Grand Cherokee to CarMax for $12,200. May 14, 2022 - APD confirmed victim found in East Austin home on May 11 as Anna Moriah Wilson. - 12:30 PM – Kaitlin Armstrong at Austin-Bergstrom Airport. She boards a flight to Houston, then to LaGuardia in New York. May 15, 2022 Police canvas for surveillance footage. A property owner heard someone running from the Maple Ave apartment the night of the murder. May 17, 2022 Ballistics testing shows that Kaitlin Armstrong’s recovered gun matches shell casings at the crime scene. - 10:40 PM – An arrest warrant is issued for Armstrong on first-degree murder charges. APD interviewed Colin Strickland – Here is a detailed timeline of Colin Strickland’s movements on May 11, 2022, based on his May 17, 2022 APD interview: - Around 5:45 PM: Colin Strickland picks up Moriah Wilson from the Maple Ave residence on his motorcycle. He estimated this time but noted traffic had delayed him. He texted her while stuck in traffic on MLK Boulevard near the stadium, coordinating the pickup. - After 5:45 PM: They ride to Deep Eddy Municipal Pool to swim. Strickland says they stayed there for approximately 45 minutes. - Approximately 7:00 PM: Strickland and Wilson leave the pool and go to Pool Burger, which is nearby. They have a casual dinner and conversation. He says they talked mostly about bike racing and her career transition to racing full-time. - 8:16 PM: Surveillance footage shows Strickland and Wilson leaving the Pool Burger parking lot on his motorcycle. - 8:35 PM; Strickland drops Moriah Wilson off at the Maple Ave residence. He states he did not go inside. Surveillance corroborates his drop-off time and direction of travel. - 8:36 PM: Strickland sends a text to Kaitlin Armstrong, his girlfriend, stating he had gone to drop off flowers to a friend and had his phone battery die. The message was misleading and intended to hide his outing with Wilson. - 8:43 PM and 9:21 PM: Strickland sends additional texts to Armstrong. He says they went unanswered. - Approximately 8:48 PM; Surveillance captures Strickland riding southbound on the 4900 block of the S I-35 SB frontage road, about 8 miles from Maple Ave. - 9:21 PM: Strickland is at his residence on Fort Clark Drive, working on bicycles in the garage. Armstrong returns home shortly after, driving the black SUV seen in surveillance footage near the crime scene. May 18, 2022 - 5:09 PM – Armstrong uses a fraudulent passport to board United Airlines Flight 1222 from Newark, NJ, to Costa Rica. May 20, 2022 - 2:26 PM – Colin Strickland issues a public statement describing his regret. - 7:51 PM – U.S. Marshals officially designate Armstrong a fugitive and request public assistance. May 21, 2022 - Wilson’s family clears up details of alleged relationship with Strickland Statement to CNN “While we will not elaborate about the ongoing investigation, we do feel it’s important to clarify that at the time of her death, those closest to her clearly understood, directly from Moriah, that she was not in a romantic relationship with anyone,” “We are absolutely devastated by the loss of our beautiful daughter and sister, Anna Moriah Wilson. There are no words that can express the pain and suffering we are experiencing due to this senseless, tragic loss. Moriah was a talented, kind, and caring young woman. Her life was taken from her before she had the opportunity to achieve everything she dreamed of. Our family, and all those who loved her, will forever miss her,” May 23, 2022 - Memorial ride is held for Mo Wilson. May 25, 2022 - Austin police held press conference on the death of Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson. They said that Armstrong was mistakenly released from custody on the previous misdemeanor warrants because her date of birth in their system did not match the DOB on the warrant. US Marshals leading a fugitive investigation. Security footage from AUS shows Armstrong was last seen wearing a blue denim jacket, a black shirt with a pink design on her chest, white jeans, black-and-white sneakers and a black COVID-19 mask, along with a yoga mat holder over her shoulders. June 6, 2022 - US Marshal Service announced murder case was being upgraded in status. While a technicality, it allows for additional funding, manpower, and specialized skills. June 23, 2022 - U.S. Marshals announced they found the black Jeep Grand Cherokee registered to Armstrong. Authorities said Armstrong sold the vehicle on May 13 to a CarMax dealership in south Austin for $12,200. June 29, 2022 Kaitlin Armstrong is captured at a hostel in Santa Teresa Beach, Costa Rica, ending a 43-day manhunt. - June 2022, after searching for her throughout hostels in Costa Rica, U.S. Marshals got a tip that Armstrong may have been hiding out in a Santa Teresa Village. Having trouble finding her in a sea of tourists visiting the area, they set up a fake job posting for a yoga instructor in hopes of luring her in — and it worked. - Armstrong was going by “Ari,” reached out and asked to meet at Don Jon’s, the hostel where she was staying, to discuss the yoga instructor job. Deputy Emir Perez said that because Armstrong changed her appearance so much, they weren’t certain it was her when they first met. - Kaitlin Armstrong was apprehended in Costa Rica with the false passport. June 30, 2022 - Kaitlin Armstrong Bond was set at $3.5 million. July 2, 2022 - Armstrong is extradited to the U.S. and held in Harris County Jail in Houston. July 5, 2022 - Armstrong is extradited to Austin, Texas. She is formally arrested and held on $3.5 million bond. July 8, 2022 - Kaitlin Armstrong filed a Motion to assert right to a speedy trial July 12, 2022 - Search warrant for alleged Armstrong email account. Austin PD filed a search warrant for an email account associated with Kaitlin Armstrong. Police believe Armstrong used the account as she was fleeing Austin. Court documents stated police learned Armstrong had bought a new phone and prepaid debit card at Walmart after her original phone was taken during a search of her Austin home. July 20, 2022 - Armstrong pleads not guilty to first-degree murder in court and requested a speedy trial. - The judge then set the docket call for the case for Oct. 19, 2022 with a jury trial the week after. August 17, 2022 - Armstrong’s attorneys filed a motion to suppress evidence claiming that Kaitlin Armstrong was illegally interrogated on May 12, 2022 by Austin PD, saying they failed to read her Miranda Rights and failed to end the interview after invoking her right to an attorney. October 24, 2022 - Pretrial hearing Armstrong Attorney filed a motion to get initial interview with Austin police thrown out. November 9, 2022 - Pretrial hearing ruling: APD interview of Armstrong ruled admissible. Any errors in the police affidavit were not enough to invalidate the arrest warrant. - Trial date set for June 26, 2023 May 4, 2024 - Armstrong trial postponed. October 11, 2023 Armstrong attempts to escape custody while being escorted from a medical appointment. - Travis County corrections officers escorted Armstrong to a medical appointment outside of the jail where she was being held before her murder trial. At 8:17 a.m., when leaving the medical office, Armstrong fled from the officers on foot with her hands still in cuffs, and attempted to jump over a fence to get away from them. Armstrong was apprehended 10 minutes later. October 12, 2023 - New felony charges files after attempted escape: a second-degree felony charge of escape causing bodily injury following her attempted escape on October 11, 2023, The Travis County Sheriff’s Office corrections officer was injured while trying to apprehend Kaitlin Armstrong. October 30, 2023 - Jury selected for trial. November 1, 2023 - Murder trial begins in Austin with opening statements. November 16, 2023 - Armstrong is found guilty of the murder of Moriah Wilson by a jury. November 17, 2023 - Armstrong is sentenced to 90 years in prison and fined $10,000. - Wilson’s family delivers emotional victim impact statements in court. November 27, 2023 - Kaitlin Armstrong begins the appeals process to challenge her conviction and sentence. KAITLIN MARIE ARMSTRONG Kaitlin Armstrong Kaitlin Marie Armstrong, born on November 21, 1987, in the Midwest, is a former yoga instructor and real estate agent.She attended Stevenson High School in Livonia, Michigan, graduating in 2005, where she was active in sports such as volleyball, track and field, and basketball.Armstrong later pursued higher education at Eastern Michigan University KAITLIN MARIE ARMSTRONG Who is Kaitlin Marie Armstrong? Murder of Mo Willson Kaitlin Marie Armstrong was born on November 21, 1987, and grew up in Livonia, Michigan. Her parents divorced when she was a child, and her mother later struggled with alcoholism. According to a childhood friend, Armstrong was also the victim of abuse as a child. Armstrong graduated from high school in 2005 and then attended Eastern Michigan University. She eventually became a licensed realtor, though her biggest passion was teaching yoga. In 2018, Armstrong even attended a four-week yoga teacher training course in Bali, Indonesia. Kaitlin Armstrong has not been seen since May 13 – two days after the murder of Moriah Wilson, 25 who was found covered in blood at a friend’s home in East Austin on May 11. An arrest warrant has been issued for Armstrong, a yoga teacher, who remains on the run and has deleted all her social media accounts. Armstrong’s boyfriend Colin Strickland, also a professional cyclist, had a brief romantic relationship with Wilson in October when he and his girlfriend of three years were on a break. He and Armstrong got back together shortly after his fling with Wilson but his girlfriend only found out about the one-week dalliance in January.


--- [Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson (1996-2022) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson was murdered in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full-time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Mo had also been working on a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, VT where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food.∼Kirby, VT: Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson, age 25, of Locust Ridge Rd, went home to be with our Lord and Savior Jesus on May 11, 2022. Moriah passed away in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah was born on May 18, 1996 in Littleton, NH, daughter to Eric and Karen (Cronin) Wilson. She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Most importantly, Moriah's recent dream was to channel her success in ways to give back and inspire others around the world. Mo recently chose to call Vermont home again with a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, VT where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food. She is survived by her parents and brother: Eric, Karen and Matthew Wilson, all of Kirby, Vermont, her grandmother: Marilyn Wilson of Montpelier, Vermont, and numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins. She was predeceased by her grandparents: David Cronin in 2010, Donna Cronin in 2020 and Robert Wilson in 2021. A private Celebration of Life will be held for Moriah. Those closest to the family will be contacted with more information. A burial service will be held privately with interment at the Kirby Cemetery with Rev. Joel Battalglia of Lyndon Bible Church officiating. In her memory, we are raising money to help fund community organizations that help youth find self confidence, strength, and joy through biking, skiing, and other activities that Moriah was passionate about. We would also would like to include the opportunity to provide training support to ski racers at BMA and Dartmouth. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to one of the following: Moriah Wilson Fund https://www.burkemtnacademy.org/donate-today Dartmouth College Friends of Skiing Condolences may be shared with the family at www.guibordfh.com. :--------------::---------------::•~~~~~~~~~~~~ஜ۩۞۩ஜ~~~~~~~~~~~~•::---------------::--------------: Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson, age 25, of Locust Ridge Road, went home to be with our Lord and Savior Jesus on May 11, 2022. Moriah passed away in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah was born on May 18, 1996, in Littleton, N.H., daughter to Eric and Karen (Cronin) Wilson. She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full-time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Most importantly, Moriah's recent dream was to channel her success in ways to give back and inspire others around the world. Mo recently chose to call Vermont home again with a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, Vt. where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food. She is survived by her parents and brother: Eric, Karen and Matthew Wilson, all of Kirby, Vermont, her grandmother: Marilyn Wilson of Montpelier, Vermont, and numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins. She was predeceased by her grandparents: David Cronin in 2010, Donna Cronin in 2020 and Robert Wilson in 2021. A private Celebration of Life will be held for Moriah. Those closest to the family will be contacted with more information. A burial service will be held privately with interment at the Kirby Cemetery with Rev. Joel Battalglia of Lyndon Bible Church officiating. In her memory, we are raising money to help fund community organizations that help youth find self-confidence, strength, and joy through biking, skiing, and other activities that Moriah was passionate about. We would also like to include the opportunity to provide training support to ski racers at BMA and Dartmouth. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to one of the following: Moriah Wilson Fund Dartmouth College Friends of Skiing https://www.burkemtnacademy.org/donate-today Condolences may be shared with the family at www.guibordfh.com. Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson was murdered in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full-time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Mo had also been working on a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, VT where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food.∼Kirby, VT: Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson, age 25, of Locust Ridge Rd, went home to be with our Lord and Savior Jesus on May 11, 2022. Moriah passed away in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah was born on May 18, 1996 in Littleton, NH, daughter to Eric and Karen (Cronin) Wilson. She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Most importantly, Moriah's recent dream was to channel her success in ways to give back and inspire others around the world. Mo recently chose to call Vermont home again with a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, VT where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food. She is survived by her parents and brother: Eric, Karen and Matthew Wilson, all of Kirby, Vermont, her grandmother: Marilyn Wilson of Montpelier, Vermont, and numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins. She was predeceased by her grandparents: David Cronin in 2010, Donna Cronin in 2020 and Robert Wilson in 2021. A private Celebration of Life will be held for Moriah. Those closest to the family will be contacted with more information. A burial service will be held privately with interment at the Kirby Cemetery with Rev. Joel Battalglia of Lyndon Bible Church officiating. In her memory, we are raising money to help fund community organizations that help youth find self confidence, strength, and joy through biking, skiing, and other activities that Moriah was passionate about. We would also would like to include the opportunity to provide training support to ski racers at BMA and Dartmouth. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to one of the following: Moriah Wilson Fund https://www.burkemtnacademy.org/donate-today Dartmouth College Friends of Skiing Condolences may be shared with the family at www.guibordfh.com. :--------------::---------------::•~~~~~~~~~~~~ஜ۩۞۩ஜ~~~~~~~~~~~~•::---------------::--------------: Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson, age 25, of Locust Ridge Road, went home to be with our Lord and Savior Jesus on May 11, 2022. Moriah passed away in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah was born on May 18, 1996, in Littleton, N.H., daughter to Eric and Karen (Cronin) Wilson. She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full-time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Most importantly, Moriah's recent dream was to channel her success in ways to give back and inspire others around the world. Mo recently chose to call Vermont home again with a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, Vt. where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food. She is survived by her parents and brother: Eric, Karen and Matthew Wilson, all of Kirby, Vermont, her grandmother: Marilyn Wilson of Montpelier, Vermont, and numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins. She was predeceased by her grandparents: David Cronin in 2010, Donna Cronin in 2020 and Robert Wilson in 2021. A private Celebration of Life will be held for Moriah. Those closest to the family will be contacted with more information. A burial service will be held privately with interment at the Kirby Cemetery with Rev. Joel Battalglia of Lyndon Bible Church officiating. In her memory, we are raising money to help fund community organizations that help youth find self-confidence, strength, and joy through biking, skiing, and other activities that Moriah was passionate about. We would also like to include the opportunity to provide training support to ski racers at BMA and Dartmouth. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to one of the following: Moriah Wilson Fund Dartmouth College Friends of Skiing https://www.burkemtnacademy.org/donate-today Condolences may be shared with the family at www.guibordfh.com. Sponsored by Ancestry


--- [Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson Obituary May 11, 2022] ---
Invite friends and family to read the obituary and add memories. We'll notify you when service details or new memories are added. You're now following this obituary We'll email you when there are updates. Please select what you would like included for printing: Kirby, VT: Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson, age 25, of Locust Ridge Rd, went home to be with our Lord and Savior Jesus on May 11, 2022. Moriah passed away in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah was born on May 18, 1996 in Littleton, NH, daughter to Eric and Karen (Cronin) Wilson. She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Most importantly, Moriah’s recent dream was to channel her success in ways to give back and inspire others around the world. Mo recently chose to call Vermont home again with a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, VT where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food. She is survived by her parents and brother: Eric, Karen and Matthew Wilson, all of Kirby, Vermont, her grandmother: Marilyn Wilson of Montpelier, Vermont, and numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins. She was predeceased by her grandparents: David Cronin in 2010, Donna Cronin in 2020 and Robert Wilson in 2021. A private Celebration of Life will be held for Moriah. Those closest to the family will be contacted with more information. A burial service will be held privately with interment at the Kirby Cemetery with Rev. Joel Battalglia of Lyndon Bible Church officiating. In her memory, we are raising money to help fund community organizations that help youth find self confidence, strength, and joy through biking, skiing, and other activities that Moriah was passionate about. We would also would like to include the opportunity to provide training support to ski racers at BMA and Dartmouth. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to one of the following: https://www.burkemtnacademy.org/donate-today Dartmouth College Friends of Skiing Condolences may be shared with the family at www.guibordfh.com. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Service map data © OpenStreetMap contributors
