=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sidney Abbott - Wikipedia]
Sidney Afton Abbott was born on July 11, 1937 into a military family, describing herself as a military brat. She attended Smith College for three years, and graduated from the University of New Mexico in 1961.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sidney_Abbott

[Sidney Abbott | Author | LibraryThing]
Abbott attended Smith College for three years before graduating from the University of Albuquerque, New Mexico with a bachelor's degree in art history in 1961. She studied urban planning in graduate school at Columbia University.
URL: https://www.librarything.com/author/abbottsidney

[Longtime lesbian-feminist activist Sidney Abbott dies]
Apr 17, 2015 — Abbott attended Smith College for three years before graduating from the University of Albuquerque, New Mexico with a bachelor's degree in art ...
URL: https://windycitytimes.com/2015/04/17/longtime-lesbian-feminist-activist-sidney-abbott-dies/

[Sidney Abbott (July 11, 1937 — April 15, 2015), American writer | World ...]
Background Sidney Afton Abbott was born in 1937 into a military family, describing herself as a military brat. Education She attended Smith College for three years, and graduated from the University of New Mexico in 1961. She then attended Columbia University for graduate school, studying urban planning. Career In 1969 she joined the National Organization for Women (National Organization for ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/sidney.abbott/1889425

[10 Facts About Sidney Abbott - FactSnippet]
2. Sidney Afton Abbott was born in 1937 into a military family, describing herself as a military brat. 3. Sidney Abbott attended Smith College for three years, and graduated from the University of New Mexico in 1961. 4. Sidney Abbott then attended Columbia University for graduate school, studying urban planning. 5.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-sidney-abbott.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sidney Abbott - Wikipedia] ---
Sidney Abbott (July 11, 1937 – April 15, 2015) was an American feminist and lesbian activist and writer. A former member of the Lavender Menace, she co-authored Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism with Barbara Love, and was one of the most vocal and active members in the National Organization for Women, helping the organization to focus on not just women's rights in general, but lesbian rights, as well.




--- [Sidney Abbott | Author | LibraryThing] ---
No content


--- [Longtime lesbian-feminist activist Sidney Abbott dies] ---
Sidney Abbott, 77, a longtime New York City-based lesbian-feminist activist, died April 15 in a house fire in Southold, Suffolk County New York. The cause of the fire is currently under investigation. She co-authored a ground-breaking book with Barbara Love in 1971, Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism. Abbott was born July 11, 1937 in Washington, D.C., to a military family. Her father went to West Point and later was an aide to Gen. Douglas MacArthur during World War II. Abbott attended Smith College for three years before graduating from the University of Albuquerque, New Mexico with a bachelor’s degree in art history in 1961. She studied urban planning in graduate school at Columbia University. Abbott is survived by her her nephew David Abbott of Brooklyn and a sister-in-law, Jane Abbott. She is also survived by her dog, Missy, and peacock, Henrietta. Abbott joined the National Organization for Women (NOW) in 1969 and was one of the first people to speak out about the rights of lesbians to other NOW members. She was on the founding board of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force and was a member of the Lavender Menace. She also founded the Women’s Rights are Human Rights nonprofit. Her personal archives are in the Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College and the Radcliffe College feminist collection of NOW biographies. Abbott was a program developer for two departments in the New York City government and was the first openly gay person appointed to the community planning board by the Manhattan Borough President. “Sidney was a great person with a big heart and a very big part of my life,” said Barbara Love; vice-president of development at the Veteran Feminists of America (VFA), author and longtime close friend. “In fact, I spoke to her just an hour before the fire and she was in good spirits at the time. I met her in 1967 and we lived together for several years. It was at that time that we wrote our book together which was the first non-fiction book to depict lesbians in a positive light. “We were out and proud lesbians when it wasn’t fashionable to do so and we fought for lesbian acceptance within the women’s movement particularly within NOW. She was a great storyteller and would regale us with very detailed stories about everything. She was a quintessential conversationalist. She leaves a hole in my heart and I will miss her terribly.” Jackie Ceballos, former president of New York NOW, and a founder and former president for 20 years of VFA said of her friend: “I’ve known Sidney since the beginning of NOW. We met in 1967 and worked together as activists for many years. Sidney was always level-headed and worked from within to change the way NOW interacted with the lesbian movement. She was always a unifying force within the feminist and lesbian worlds and was one of the people who opened up Betty Friedan and other straight feminists to the lesbian world. It was a shock to me when I heard that she died in such a horrible way. She was a darling person and unifying force in so many ways. I will miss her very, very much.” “In 1995, Barbara arranged for Sidney to move into my apartment and I was glad to have her come live with me because she was able to do things on the computer that I couldn’t,” said Joan Nixon, former aide to Rep. Bella Abzug and longtime friend of Abbott. “Before I realized I was a lesbian I got Sidney’s book and after I read it everything changed for me. Her book opened my eyes to the concept of women loving other women and it was then that I realized that this applied to me. We spoke the morning of her death and at that time she was in great spirits and was looking forward to the next chapter of her life. She is finally free of the lift chair that confined her during the last years of her life. I feel that Sidney’s spirit is with me, that she hasn’t gone away and will always be with me. She was a wonderful, sharp person and I look forward to celebrating her life in the years to come.” Eleanor Pam, PhD, president of VFA, a professor emerita from City University of New York, said Sidney “was a very old and dear friend whom I’ve known for almost five decades. We met during the early days and work of Second Wave Feminism. She was a double pioneer as an advocate for women’s rights as well as lesbian rights. She was a passionate, brilliant, effective and extraordinary force for human rights. Sidney was a smart and articulate activist with a keen sense of justice. She had an instinctive reflexive antipathy towards injustice against which she moved forcefully. She leaves a gap among her friends who loved her dearly and I will miss her forever.” Memorial services are pending. Abbott’s ashes will be buried in Long Island, New York.


--- [Sidney Abbott (July 11, 1937 — April 15, 2015), American writer | World ...] ---
Background Sidney Afton Abbott was born in 1937 into a military family, describing herself as a military brat. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Sidney Afton Abbott was born in 1937 into a military family, describing herself as a military brat. She attended Smith College for three years, and graduated from the University of New Mexico in 1961. She then attended Columbia University for graduate school, studying urban planning. In 1969 she joined the National Organization for Women (National Organization for Women) and became one of the first people to speak out for lesbian rights on panels at the New York chapter of National Organization for Women and at Columbia University. In the mid-1970s, with Barbara Love, she lobbied for a National Organization for Women task force to be established to focus on lesbian issues, eventually it was established. National Organization for Women first named the task force the "sexuality and lesbian task force," and Abbott had to co-chair with a heterosexual woman. At the National Organization for Women national conference in Philadelphia in 1976, Abbott demanded that 1% of the organizations budget should go to the task force, and succeeded. During the conference, it was only one of two resolutions to pass. Abbott served on the founding board of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, and worked to ensure the organization"s board was equal numbers gay men and lesbian women. She was named by the Manhattan Borough President to the community planning board. She was the first openly gay person to do southern She also served as program developer for two departments in the New York City government. She was co-chair for the New York Performing Arts Center, and has been politically active in the North Fork area of Long Island, New New York Abbott lived in Southold, New New York In 2007, she founded the Women"s Rights are Human Rights nonprofit. In 2008, she started a newsletter, In Our Shoes, about politics, class, and poverty. Her personal archives are located in the Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College and in the Radcliff College feminist collection of National Organization for Women biographies. Abbott died in a house fire in Southold, New York on April 15, 2015. A former member of the Lavender Menace, she co-authored Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism and was one of the most vocal and active members in the National Organization for Women, helping the organization to focus on not just women"s rights in general, but lesbian rights, as well. Abbott was a member of the Lavender Menace and co-authored Sappho Was a Right-on Woman: A Liberated View of Lesbianism in 1971, with Barbara Love.


--- [10 Facts About Sidney Abbott - FactSnippet] ---
Sidney Abbott was an American feminist and lesbian activist and writer. 10 Facts About Sidney Abbott Sidney Afton Abbott was born on July 11,1937 into a military family, describing herself as a military brat. Sidney Abbott attended Smith College for three years, and graduated from the University of New Mexico in 1961. Sidney Abbott then attended Columbia University for graduate school, studying urban planning. NOW first named the task force the "sexuality and lesbian task force," and Sidney Abbott had to co-chair with a heterosexual woman. Sidney Abbott served on the founding board of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, and worked to ensure the organization's board was equal numbers gay men and lesbian women. Sidney Abbott was named by the Manhattan Borough President to the community planning board; she was the first openly gay person to do so. Sidney Abbott served as program developer for two departments in the New York City government. Sidney Abbott was co-chair for the New York Performing Arts Center, and was politically active in the North Fork area of Long Island, New York. Sidney Abbott died in a house fire in Southold, New York on April 15,2015, aged 77.
