=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vice & Virtue | Exhibit Digest - Toronto Public Library Blog]
Aug 17, 2020 · This post reproduces text from Vice & Virtue exhibit, which was on display in TD Gallery at Toronto Reference Library from February 11 to April 30, 2017. The exhibit explores moral reform in Toronto as it faced rapid growth and industrialization at the turn-of-the-century. Each one of the exhibit's main panels is found below, word for word.
URL: https://blogs.tpl.ca/trl/2020/08/vice-virtue-exhibit-digest/

[Reference Library exhibit reveals Toronto’s vices… – The ...]
Mar 6, 2017 · Besides the latent pride residents have, the Toronto Reference Library is a great place to answer this question. From Feb. 11 to April 30, the city’s big book repository is exhibiting Vice and Virtue.
URL: https://www.puffingod.com/portfolio/columns/blast-radius/reference-library-exhibit-reveals-torontos-vices/

[August 2020 – Toronto Public Library Blog]
Aug 31, 2020 — This post reproduces text from Vice & Virtue exhibit, which was on display in TD Gallery at Toronto Reference Library from February 11 to April ...
URL: https://blogs.tpl.ca/2020/08/

[Thirteen fascinating artifacts about booze and gambling ... - Toronto Life]
Mar 10, 2017 · That bygone era is documented in Vice and Virtue, an exhibition at the Toronto Reference Library’s TD Gallery, on until April 30.
URL: https://torontolife.com/life/toronto-booze-gambling-vice-virtue-toronto-library-td-gallery/

[Children Draw What Canada Means to Them at the TD Gallery]
The children's table in the TD Gallery at the Toronto Reference Library. The card reads "What does your Canada look like? Draw a picture here." One of Toronto's hidden gems is the TD Gallery at the Toronto Reference Library. The gallery's current exhibit is I Am Canada: Celebrating Canadian Picture...
URL: https://torontopubliclibrary.typepad.com/trl/2017/12/children-draw-what-canada-means-to-them-at-the-td-gallery.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vice & Virtue | Exhibit Digest - Toronto Public Library Blog] ---
Vice & Virtue | Exhibit Digest This post reproduces text from Vice & Virtue exhibit, which was on display in TD Gallery at Toronto Reference Library from February 11 to April 30, 2017. The exhibit explores moral reform in Toronto as it faced rapid growth and industrialization at the turn-of-the-century. Each one of the exhibit's main panels is found below, word for word. Find more items from the exhibit on our Digital Archive. Find infographics about crime stats in Toronto (1879-1926) created for the exhibit in another blog post. Making “Toronto the Good” The nickname “Toronto the Good” dates back to moral crusader William Holmes Howland who was elected mayor in 1886. Howland vowed to rid the city of drinking and vice, and his campaign was perfectly timed. Journalists of the day capitalized on rising middle-class fears about the unsavory aspects of urban life, publishing salacious stories of bawdy houses, opium dens and drunken debauchery. Meanwhile, temperance, social purity and Sunday observance organizations lobbied for legal and social reforms to curb the “evils” of city life. Vice & Virtue examines a period of moral reform in Toronto as it faced rapid growth and industrialization at the turn-of-the-century. The exhibit explores changing attitudes and increasing regulation of alcohol, tobacco, illicit drugs, gambling, homosexuality, juvenile delinquency, and prostitution. Tabloids, photographs, manuscripts, posters and pamphlets from the library’s Baldwin Collection of Canadiana reveal a seedier side of “Toronto the Good.” Moral Reform in the City of Churches In 1900, Toronto was a city of about 200,000 residents and almost 200 churches. Over the previous three decades the city’s population had tripled and now Toronto was facing the challenges of rapid growth and industrialization: poverty, disease and crime. Church leaders and philanthropic groups claimed that the city’s social problems were rooted in moral failings. They targeted vice, drink and Sabbath-breaking with an evangelical zeal. A powerful coalition of protestant churches and temperance societies, including the Women’s Christian Temperance Union, campaigned against the personal and social “evils” of alcohol. The Lord’s Day Alliance of Canada was established in 1888 by the Presbyterian Church. The group successfully petitioned for “blue laws” that prohibited work, shopping and almost all public activities on Sundays. The Methodist Church established a Department of Temperance and Moral Reform in 1902. The department distributed pamphlets and lobbied for efforts to rid the city of drunkenness, prostitution and obscenity. Read All About It! The fuel for the moral reformers’ campaign came from Toronto’s tabloids, dailies and popular “social studies” which titillated and terrified readers with lurid accounts of crime and vice. Policing Morality: The Vice Squad One of the first acts of Mayor William Howland, elected in 1886, was to establish a police unit dedicated to cracking down on vice. The department was tasked with policing drunkenness, gambling, prostitution, trade of illicit drugs and the observance of Sunday laws. By the 1890s, new correctional institutions had been founded in Toronto to discipline and “treat” moral offenders. Reformatories, houses of refuge and industrial schools professed to “rescue” wayward women and juvenile delinquents from a life of crime by instilling Christian virtues. In 1913, the vice squad added the city’s first two female officers. They were hired to patrol parks, theatres and dancehalls – places where young, single women were deemed at risk of succumbing to the temptations of immorality. Toronto’s morality laws were not enforced equally. The poor, unmarried women, and racialized groups were unfairly targeted as the source of the city’s perceived moral decline. Toronto Gaol (Don Jail) Registries, 1874-1877 The Toronto Gaol (jail), also known as the Don Jail, was built on the eastern shore of the Don River in 1864. The largest jail in North America at the time, it became a notorious facility known for its overcrowded brick cells and for its gallows where 34 men were executed. Canada’s last hangings took place there in 1962. This register was used to record the individuals who were incarcerated from 1874-1877: their names, ages, trade, “rank in life,” offences, sentence and how they were discharged. More than half were charged with drunkenness. Vagrancy and larceny (theft) are also common offences. Here you can see those incarcerated in July of 1874, including men, women and children as young as 11. All are noted as being of the “lower class.” A number of women have “prostitute” recorded as their trade. City of Booze Nineteenth-century Toronto had a conflicted relationship with beer, wine and spirits. In the early 1800s, small breweries dotted York’s creeks and streams. Over the century, these small-batch operations were replaced by booming manufacturing plants producing for local consumption and export. Booze became big business in Toronto. By the 1860s, the Gooderham and Worts Distillery was the largest whiskey factory in the world. Alcohol played an important role in Toronto’s development. Taverns and inns were not simply watering holes, they were important places for civic and social life. The profits from brewing and distilling, likewise, contributed to charity and city-development projects. However, there was an increasingly vocal movement pointing to drunkenness as the root of the city’s vice and crime. Arrest records show that over half of all arrest in the nineteenth-century were for booze-related offences. Chasing the Liquor Demon: Temperance & Prohibition The social campaign known as “temperance” emerged in the 1820s when the virtue of abstaining from liquor was preached from the pulpit. By the late-nineteenth century, temperance was a powerful and organized political force in Canada. The movement had shifted focus from individual abstinence to legal prohibition. Women’s organizations were a key part of the campaign, leading rallies, distributing literature and mounting petitions. Following the Canada Temperance Act of 1878, local municipalities could put the question of prohibition to vote. In 1904, the Toronto neighbourhood now known as The Junction voted to go “dry” and would remain so for the next 90 years. The Ontario Temperance Act became law in 1916, prohibiting the sale, distribution, and public consumption of liquor in the province. It was, however, legal to manufacture alcohol for export. Toronto’s brewers, distillers and rum-running middle men made a tidy profit serving the black market south of the border. When prohibition in Ontario was overturned in 1927, it was replaced with government-run liquor distribution regulated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO). Up in Smoke: Tobacco & Illicit Drugs Early anti-tobacco advocates, closely allied with the temperance movement, linked smoking with criminality, laziness and spiritual decline. Despite early attempts at regulation, tobacco sales boomed in the first half of the twentieth century. It wasn’t until the link between smoking and lung cancer was confirmed in the 1960s that support grew for restrictions on advertising tobacco and in smoking in public. Prior to passage of Canada’ first drug laws in 1908 and 1911, Torontonians could purchase opium, cocaine and morphine at their local pharmacy. Once tolerated, opium became the target of a huge anti-drug panic in the early 1920s, directly connected to efforts to restrict Chinese immigration. Games of Chance: Illegal Gambling Until the 1890s Toronto police paid little attention to those who hosted card games or bet on the horse track for amusement. In 1892, the new Canadian Criminal Code made lotteries and gaming houses illegal. The city’s vice squad was tasked with cracking down on gaming dens. Anti-gambling campaigners were tolerant of forms of betting associated with high society. Racetrack betting, for example, was legalized with an amendment to the Criminal Code in 1910. Legal exceptions were also made for lotteries organized by religious and charitable groups. The suppression of gambling was tied to anti-immigration sentiment. In Toronto, Chinese-run cafés were targeted by police as places were bachelors played games like pai gow and fan-tan. Major changes to the Criminal Code in 1967 opened the door for provincially and federally-run lotteries and, later, casinos, ushering in what is now a multi-billion-dollar industry. Bawdy Laws to Burlesque: Toronto’s Working Girls Prostitution, the world’s oldest profession, was present even in the early days of Toronto. Charges of “keeping a bawdy house” date back to 1804, when York was a provincial town of 400 people. A century later, an unprecedented number of young, single women were moving to Toronto for work and leisure. Church leaders, city officials and police felt it was their duty to protect young women from the immoral temptations of city life. By the 1910s, a moral panic erupted over what was called “White Slavery.” Newspapers and church publications were filled with lurid and racist tales of innocent white women being lured into the sex trade by “foreigners.” A 1915 Toronto Social Survey report found no evidence to substantiate these claims but this did little to quell concerns about the moral character of Toronto’s “girls.” Toronto’s strict moral laws were also used to police what was deemed obscene art and entertainment. In 1961, Torontonians voted in favour of permitting movies and live theatre on Sundays, sparking a heated debate about whether that would also include the city’s burlesque theatres. Pansy Boys & Gorilla Girls In late nineteenth-century Toronto, those caught engaging in “buggery” faced 10 years to life in prison. The vaguely-defined charge of “gross indecency” became the primary weapon to suppress homosexuality in 1890. Men seeking sex with other men found each other in Toronto’s parks, public washrooms, and laneways. The city’s morality cops set up systems of surveillance to catch them in the act. Tabloids, eager to publish gossip about “pansy boys” and “gorilla girls,” inadvertently became one of few sources to discover queer places in Toronto. Homosexual acts were decriminalized in Canada in 1969. At the same time, an emergent LGBTQ+ rights movement had taken root in Toronto. Flash: Tabloids in Toronto While the mainstream dailies covered city news with a certain level of decorum, the public turned to tabloids like Hush, Justice Weekly, Flash and Tab for juicier stories. Government corruption, gruesome crimes, sexual “perversions,” pin-ups and society divorces were common fodder for the scandal sheets.


--- [Reference Library exhibit reveals Toronto’s vices… – The ...] ---
…and virtues of the city known as the Good The Six. Hogtown. The Big Smoke. Hollywood North. The T-Dot. I get them. Those aforementioned monikers are all geographic or industrial or abridgements of the given name. But Toronto the Good? When you move to the big city, nuance tends to be lost on you when learning of its inner workings. Being a journalist, I find those gaps are filled pretty quickly, but one thing was always a mystery: where or who came up with the nickname, Toronto the Good. The shadow of Hogtown tends to blanket most of the 905, and most folks who call the ‘burbs home have an unhealthy disdain for it. I grew up in Whitby, where Toronto is perceived as a pariah of sorts. I know my parents react as if they’ve been exposed to poison ivy when the subject of the city comes up. Perhaps the itching is not as invasion, but merely a symptom of seasonal distress. Fictional medical woes aside, I often ask how is Toronto good? Besides the latent pride residents have, the Toronto Reference Library is a great place to answer this question. From Feb. 11 to April 30, the city’s big book repository is exhibiting Vice and Virtue. As lurid as that may seem, it’s been the pleasure of both Mary Rae Shantz, the manager of service development for special collections, and curator Nicole Dawkins, to put it together. “We wanted to take a look at Toronto the Good, and showcase the other side of the story,” Shantz said, in a quick letter to me. “Victorian Toronto had a reputation of being moral and upright — but we know that beneath that veneer, there was a darker story. “It was interesting looking back at moral reform, much of what was considered ‘immoral’ is now completely acceptable.” So, by the standards of Toronto, circa 1886, our world is tawdry. Or in the case of Sunday shopping, a restless one. Puns aside, the installation tells the story of how former mayor, William Holmes Howland, vowed to rid the city of its evils in 1886. In his crosshairs were alcohol, tobacco, illicit drugs, gambling, homosexuality, juvenile delinquency and prostitution. Along with photos, the Vice and Virtue exhibit offers augmented reality elements. Visitors can download a free app called Aurasma and can point their phone, or tablet, as a trigger in the exhibit. You may even have a burlesque dancer come to life on your device, which means this isn’t a museum installation for the kids. Regardless, the lasciviousness of Victorian Toronto is kept fully robed here, save for a few slips. Overall, Shantz and company want visitors to learn about Toronto’s more salacious side. And that answers my question of how the city earned its good nickname. It only took me eight and half years of living here to find out.


--- [August 2020 – Toronto Public Library Blog] ---
Our Top 7 Tips for Online Learning Success Students will need to adapt to online learning this fall. The school year for high school students is going to look different this year. Online learning is going to be a big part of it, so we’ve pulled together the best tips out there on how to succeed in online learning. 1. Treat online […]


--- [Thirteen fascinating artifacts about booze and gambling ... - Toronto Life] ---
Turn-of-the-century Toronto was a very different city from the one we know today: booze was a hot button issue, children as young as 11 were imprisoned in the Don Jail and sleazy rags were the only place to find information on gay culture. That bygone era is documented in Vice and Virtue, an exhibition at the Toronto Reference Library’s TD Gallery, on until April 30. “It’s a light-hearted look at moral reform in ‘Toronto the Good,’" says Mary Rae Shantz, the manager of service development for the library’s special collections. “Nowadays, we place moral judgments on the same themes—smoking, legalization of marijuana, the sex trade—discussed in the late 19th and early 20th century. The more things change, the more they remain the same.” Here, the stories behind 13 artifacts in the show. The Gooderham and Worts distillery was the largest whiskey factory in the world in the 1860s. “Alcohol was big business in Toronto,” Shantz says. “Alcohol was the centre of social life, generating profits that contributed to charities and city-building projects. You wouldn’t be able to imagine a Toronto with infrastructure not created by this industry.” At the same time, over half of all arrests in the 19th century were for booze-related offences. The Red Lion Inn was one of Toronto’s first and most significant buildings, erected in 1808 near Yonge and Bloor, which was surrounded by wilderness at the time. The village of Yorkville sprung up around it and a community was forged. “The inn was used as a polling station during elections, circa 1830s,” Shantz says. “Taverns weren’t just a place to drink absinthe—they were a meeting place for town halls and court sessions.” The inn closed in 1892. “When [Yorkville village councillor] John Severn’s brewery was built in the 1830s, nobody thought twice about alcohol,” Shantz says. “But 100 years later, it was like the great evil. Our city had a love-hate relationship with alcohol.” The brewery was located north of what is now the Toronto Reference Library and brewed 26,500 litres of alcohol every week. It’s the reason Yorkville’s coat of arms features a beer barrel and the letter “S.” In 1916, the Ontario Temperance Act outlawed the sale and consumption of alcohol, but not its manufacture. “When you bought malt extract in the 1930s, there would be a silver label that would say something like ‘crude molasses,’" Shantz says. “Producers tried to disguise the true use of the product, but if you scraped it off, you would find a recipe for making beer underneath.” The Dominion Scientific Temperance Committee used science and Shakespeare to warn of the “evils” of booze. This is one of 12 posters produced by the committee and the Prohibition Federation of Canada in 1912, which feature some dubious facts and figures about the effects of alcohol on the body. “They were distributed in public schools and clearly target a young market, aiming to prevent–not stop–drinking,” Shantz says. When the Toronto Gaol, also known as Don Jail, was built on the eastern shore of the Don River in 1864, it was the largest jail in North America. “Drunkenness and larceny were the two biggest reasons people were picked up,” Shantz says. "[In this registry], you find all sorts of interesting details: age, religion, race, trade, rank in life. It just goes on and on.” This page includes those incarcerated in July 1874, including men, women and children as young as 11, all recorded as being of the “lower class.” Another registry, called the Punishment Book (1947-1960), is confidential until 2040 because some of the prisoners are still alive. Toronto the Good has been all but replaced by more modern monikers: Hogtown, T.O., the 6. But the nickname—coined by 1880s mayor William Howland—served as the title of a sensationalist exposé of drunkenness, gambling and prostitution in the city. The author argues for the legalization of prostitution. Race track betting, which was associated with high society, was legalized in 1910. This shot is from the Classic King’s Plate Race at the Greenwood Race Track, then known as Woodbine Race Track. “At the time, horse racing was a socially acceptable form of gambling—the queen did it for crying out loud,” Shantz says. “On the other hand, backroom games were looked down upon as being immoral. There was a double standard.” In the early days of Canada’s industrial era, people were divided on whether Sunday should be a holiday—or, a holy day. The Lord’s Day Alliance, an organization founded by the Presbyterian Church, persuaded then–prime minister Wilfrid Laurier to introduce a federal Lord’s Day Act in 1907, which prohibited trade, labour, recreation and most commerce on Sundays. They also unsuccessfully lobbied against Sunday streetcar service. “If you open up streetcars, gosh, people won’t stay home and observe the Lord’s Day,” Shantz jokes. “The act was repealed in 1985. It’s interesting how long these blue laws persisted. In 1986, it was still illegal to go shopping on a Sunday.” In 1874, Ontario passed the Industrial Schools Act, which was intended to “rescue” children found guilty of petty crimes and moral offences. This photo shows 110 students, aged 10 to 14, doing physical drills at the Victoria Industrial School, the province’s first reform institution for boys. “One of the leading reasons you would end up there was poverty, which was very sad,” Shantz says. “There was this idea that juvenile offenders came from ranks of street hawkers—and the idea that solid recreation and discipline could put anyone back on their feet.” In 1934, the facility closed and all the students were transferred to Bowmanville Boys’ School. In the 1970s, the property became the Mimico Correctional Centre, which was demolished in 2011 to make room for the Toronto South Detention Centre. Just after the Victoria Industrial School opened, Ontario passed its first Child Protection Act, making the neglect and abuse of children a criminal offence. “Social crusader and newspaper reporter J.J. Kelso was involved in making that significant piece of legislation,” Shantz says. “He was active in creating care agencies, advocating for children. In 1891, he founded Canada’s first Children’s Aid Society.” “In the 1930s, tabloids like Hush were the only place to find info on gay subculture,” Shantz says. "Hush was alarmist and popular, reporting sensationalist news that no one was else was reporting: divorces, businessmen caught in lurid situations and the ‘white slave’ trade.” Its competitor was Flash, which also covered topics deemed taboo by the mainstream press. In 1919, the 500-seat Globe Theatre opened on Queen Street West. It specialized in vaudeville and B-movies, but started offering “girlie shows” when it was renamed the Roxy. Polite society frowned upon the offering. In 1961, after months of public debate, a new law permitted live theatre on Sundays, including burlesque. THIS CITY Obsessive coverage of Toronto, straight to your inbox


--- [Children Draw What Canada Means to Them at the TD Gallery] ---
No content
