=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Belle da Costa Greene, the Morgan’s First Librarian and Director | The Morgan Library & Museum]
Oct 25, 2024 · Belle da Costa Greene (1879–1950) was one of the most prominent librarians in American history. She ran the Morgan Library for forty-three years—nineteen as the private librarian of J. Pierpont Morgan and later his son, Jack, and twenty-four as the inaugural director of the Pierpont Morgan Library (now the Morgan Library & Museum).
URL: https://www.themorgan.org/belle-greene

[Belle da Costa Greene—The Morgan Library’s First Director]
May 12, 2025 · Belle da Costa Greene (1883–1950) is remembered as one of the most influential librarians in American history. Starting as a private librarian, Greene later became the first director of the Morgan Library & Museum, in a career that spanned a remarkable 43 years. Under Greene’s leadership, what began as an exclusive private collection was transformed into a major public institution. Widely ...
URL: https://www.dailyartmagazine.com/belle-da-costa-greene/

[Belle da Costa Greene - Wikipedia]
Belle da Costa Greene (November 26, 1879 – May 10, 1950) was an American librarian who managed and developed the personal library of J. P. Morgan. After Morgan died in 1913, Greene continued as librarian for his son, Jack Morgan, and in 1924 was named the first director of the Pierpont Morgan Library.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belle_da_Costa_Greene

[Morgan Library honors the dual life of inaugural director Belle da Costa ...]
In celebration of its 100th year as an institution open to the public, the Morgan Library and Museum has launched the exhibition, "Belle da Costa Greene: A Librarian's Legacy," a comprehensive retrospective of the lives and career of the Morgan's first director. First hired in 1905 and appointed director in 1924, Greene (1879-1950) was a colorful and talented character who invented not ...
URL: https://gaycitynews.com/morgan-library-museum-belle-da-costa-greene/

[Belle de Costa Greene: Library Director, Advocate, and Rare Books ...]
Feb 8, 2022 · The first half of the 20 th century saw Greene rise as a top expert in the rare book world as librarian and first director of the Morgan Library and Museum. But Strouse discovered something new about Greene that presented Greene in whole new light.
URL: https://blogs.loc.gov/headlinesandheroes/2022/02/belle-de-costa-greene/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Belle da Costa Greene, the Morgan’s First Librarian and Director | The Morgan Library & Museum] ---
Adolf de Meyer (1868–1946). Belle da Costa Greene, ca. 1910. Archives of the Morgan Library & Museum, ARC 1664. Belle da Costa Greene (1879–1950) was one of the most prominent librarians in American history. She ran the Morgan Library for forty-three years—initially as the private librarian of J. Pierpont Morgan and then his son, Jack, and later as the inaugural director of the Pierpont Morgan Library (now the Morgan Library & Museum). Not only did Greene build one of the most important collections of rare books and manuscripts in the United States, but she also transformed an exclusive private collection into a major public resource, originating the robust program of exhibitions, lectures, publications, and research services that continues today. The daughter of Genevieve Ida Fleet Greener (1849–1941) and Richard T. Greener (1844–1922), Belle Greene (named Belle Marion Greener at birth) grew up in a predominantly African American community in Washington, DC. Her father was the first Black graduate of Harvard College and a prominent educator, diplomat, and racial justice activist. Her mother came from a distinguished Black family in Washington and worked as a musician and educator. After Belle’s parents separated during her adolescence, Genevieve changed her surname and that of her children to Greene. From the time Belle was a teenager, they passed as white in a segregated and deeply racist society. Belle Greene was employed at the Princeton University Library when Junius Spencer Morgan, a nephew of J. Pierpont Morgan and an ardent bibliophile, recommended her to his uncle, whose new library building was nearing completion. In 1905, Greene began working as an assistant to Junius and ultimately became J. Pierpont Morgan’s private librarian, with her own assistant, Ada Thurston—managing, documenting, and building Morgan's collection of rare books and manuscripts, organizing public exhibitions at outside venues, and establishing relationships with dealers and scholars. After Morgan’s death in 1913, Greene continued as private librarian to his son, J.P. Morgan Jr., who established the Pierpont Morgan Library as a public institution in 1924. Greene was named its first director and served in that capacity until her retirement in 1948, two years before her death. Greene’s legacy is powerful and far-reaching. While the significant role she played as J. Pierpont Morgan’s librarian is often acknowledged, her tenure in that position lasted a mere seven years. During her decades-long career as a library executive, she not only acquired countless significant collection items but also made immeasurable contributions to bibliography and scholarship, mentored colleagues at the Morgan and elsewhere, facilitated widespread collection access through object loans and ambitious photographic services, and promoted the work of distinguished women scholars and librarians. Learn More About Belle da Costa Greene Videos Belle da Costa Greene and the Women of the Morgan Curators Erica Cialella and Philip Palmer discuss Belle da Costa Greene’s enduring legacy and their ongoing research on her work as the director of the Morgan Library & Museum.


--- [Belle da Costa Greene—The Morgan Library’s First Director] ---
Joan of Arc in 10 Paintings Mystic, warrior, and martyr, Joan of Arc has inspired art, culture, and politics for almost six centuries. The list is innumerable but includes:... Candy Bedworth 23 February 2026 Belle da Costa Greene (1883–1950) is remembered as one of the most influential librarians in American history. Starting as a private librarian, Greene later became the first director of the Morgan Library & Museum, in a career that spanned a remarkable 43 years. Under Greene’s leadership, what began as an exclusive private collection was transformed into a major public institution. Widely recognized for her connoisseurship of illuminated manuscripts and as a respected figure in cultural heritage circles, Greene pioneered a dynamic program of exhibitions, lectures, publications, and research services that remains a hallmark of the library’s mission today. Belle da Costa Greene was the daughter of lawyer Richard T. Greener, the first African American to graduate from Harvard University. Near the turn of the century, following her parents’ separation, Greene relocated with her family to New York City. Possessing light enough skin to pass as white, the family adopted the surname “Greene,” shedding their original identity. In her professional career, Belle further crafted her public persona by adding “da Costa” to her name, claiming Portuguese heritage to navigate the racially-charged social landscape of her time. However, little is known about Greene’s personal life, because she burned all her personal papers before her death. Most of the available information comes from the letters she sent to others, her professional records preserved in the Morgan Library archives, and newspaper coverage. Unable to afford college, Belle da Costa Greene transitioned directly from public school to a position at Princeton University Library. There, she quickly mastered the art of cataloging, worked in the reference department, and developed a keen passion for rare books. Her growing expertise soon caught the attention of J.P. Morgan, whose sprawling and disorganized collection of early books and manuscripts was about to be housed in a new building in New York City. Morgan’s corpus of rare books and fine art often made headlines, featured prominently in newspaper art and literature sections, particularly as pieces were loaned to institutions like the Metropolitan Museum of Art for public exhibition. Between 1905 and 1908, Greene committed herself to organizing Morgan’s rich collection. By 1908, Greene was traveling regularly to Europe as Morgan’s trusted agent, acquiring important additions for the library. During these trips, she immersed herself in the further study of rare books. Greene’s expertise and drive soon made her a respected and familiar figure among Europe’s leading libraries, galleries, and dealers. Following the death of J.P. Morgan, his son Jack Morgan inherited the library’s vast collection. He transformed the library into a public institution and memorial to his father, with Greene being appointed as the first director of the Morgan Library. Over the next 24 years, Greene transformed the Morgan Library into a world-renowned center for scholarly research. She also established photographic and information services, as well as a program of lectures and publications. She seamlessly blended personal connections with academic expertise to advance the library’s mission. At a time when librarians were expected to be gray, dusty, and tucked away in the shadows, Belle da Costa Greene burst onto the scene with a flair all her own. In her twenties, she took charge of managing and expanding a vast and valuable collection. This attracted newspapers’ attention, often highlighting both her stylish wardrobe as well as her sharp wit. At the time, it was believed that private collectors were best suited to safeguard rare books and manuscripts. However, Greene argued passionately that public institutions—such as libraries, universities, and museums—should be given a fair chance to acquire and share these cultural treasures. As the price of rare books soared beyond the reach of public budgets, Greene fought to expand public access. In an era when leadership roles were largely held by men, Belle da Costa Greene emerged as a formidable connoisseur, curator, and director. Her influence was profound and enduring. Over decades-long career, Greene assembled a world-class collection of rare books and manuscripts, but also left a mark on the fields of bibliography and scholarship. She promoted open access through object loans and photographic services, and actively promoted the work of distinguished women scholars and librarians. DailyArt Magazine needs your support. Every contribution, however big or small, is very valuable for our future. Thanks to it, we will be able to sustain and grow the Magazine. Thank you for your help!


--- [Belle da Costa Greene - Wikipedia] ---
Belle da Costa Greene (November 26, 1879 – May 10, 1950) was an American librarian who managed and developed the personal library of J. P. Morgan. After Morgan died in 1913, Greene continued as librarian for his son, Jack Morgan, and in 1924 was named the first director of the Pierpont Morgan Library. Despite being born to black parents, Greene spent her professional career passing for white.
Greene worked in the administrative offices at Columbia University's Teachers College in the mid-1890s, where she was introduced to the philanthropist and social welfare advocate Grace Hoadley Dodge. Dodge arranged for Greene to be admitted to the Northfield Seminary for Young Ladies and funded her education there. Greene attended the seminary for three years, likely from 1896 to 1899. In 1900, Greene attended Amherst College's Summer School of Library Economy, a six-week program that offered courses in the nascent library science field, including cataloging, indexing, and handwriting. Following her graduation, she began working at the Princeton University Library. At Princeton, she was trained in cataloging and reference work, and she developed a knowledge of rare books. While working at Princeton, she met Junius Spencer Morgan II, who later introduced her to his financier uncle J. P. Morgan. Greene began working as J. P. Morgan's librarian in 1905.
Greene was an expert in illuminated manuscripts. She spent millions of dollars in buying and selling rare manuscripts, books, and art for Morgan. She told Morgan, that her goal was to make his library "pre-eminent, especially for incunabula, manuscripts, bindings, and the classics". She was particularly focused on making rare books accessible to the public, rather than keeping them locked away in the vaults of private collectors.  According to a biographer of Morgan, Greene helped Morgan in evading customs duties for art objects. At one point, she allowed customs agents to find several dutiable items in her luggage, while preventing them from noticing that she was transporting a painting, three bronzes, and a very expensive watch for Morgan. Greene herself reported that she and her employer performed a "war dance" and jointly laughed following the success of their scheme.


--- [Morgan Library honors the dual life of inaugural director Belle da Costa ...] ---
In celebration of its 100th year as an institution open to the public, the Morgan Library and Museum has launched the exhibition, “Belle da Costa Greene: A Librarian’s Legacy,” a comprehensive retrospective of the lives and career of the Morgan’s first director. First hired in 1905 and appointed director in 1924, Greene (1879-1950) was a colorful and talented character who invented not only herself, but the Library, and, to some degree, the science of librarianship. Greene died, without descendants, of cancer, in 1950. Hired at age 26 as personal librarian to Wall Street giant John Pierpont Morgan Sr. (1837-1913), Greene would continue in service to the Morgan dynasty under J.P. Morgan Jr. (1867-1943) until her retirement in 1948. Throughout this time, she built up a reputation for astute bibliophilia and sharp collector’s acumen. She was profiled in the New York Times, among many other publications. She came to be readily recognizable for her signature flapper hats (facsimiles of which the Morgan currently has on sale in its gift shop). While Greene was very much a public figure in the forefront of New York high society, her personal history was shrouded in secrecy, the continuance of which she took an active role in ensuring. She discarded all of her personal records. Nothing remains in writing of her thoughts outside professional correspondence related to her job at the Morgan Library. This was because Greene lived a dual life. She was born Black and died white. The exhibition is bisected into two separate halls (the museum’s twin Morgan Stanley Galleries), located beside each other and connected by a central greeting lobby. This arrangement aptly befits Greene’s biography, split as it was into two identities – one, by construction, as the “bold, fearless, uncompromising” – and white – inaugural director of the Morgan Library. The other, by inheritance, as scion of “an elite Black family in Washington, DC.” Installed in Morgan Stanley Gallery West is the latter of these two existences, the professional life and works that earned Greene the moniker, “Soul of the Morgan Library.” Therein are selections of Greene’s most notable acquisitions for the library’s holdings – manuscripts, prints and other historical objects that Greene traveled to Europe and around the United States to inspect and purchase. The gallery also contains memorabilia from Greene’s professional life – correspondence from colleagues and mentees, and the stories behind their associations. Noteworthy is a triptych of photographs of the American poet, Amy Lowell, whose research for a biography of Keats she was writing Greene facilitated at the Morgan. Lowell, the exhibition notes, “lived openly as a lesbian in Boston and dedicated [the book] to her longtime partner, the stage actor, Ada Dwyer Russell.” To this queer woman the Bohemian Greene gave unqualified support, once consenting to Lowell’s “cheeky request” to consult a manuscript overnight in her hotel room while recovering from surgery with a written reply using the royal “we”: “What we ‘think of you’ is entirely too complimentary for transmission by mere paper,” Greene wrote. One striking object on display is a beautiful man’s ring, which Greene came across in the desk of J.P. Morgan Jr. (“Jack”) after his passing. The ring’s intricate design and intriguing backstory Greene commented on in a letter to Jack’s sister, Jane Morgan Nichols, then president of the Morgan Library board of directors. “It takes a Morgan!” Greene wrote with bold familiarity. “No – I did not open the ‘true lovers’ ring. As no-one had ever given me one I did not even suspect that they did open. I’m furious at the neglect shown me.” Greene’s derision mixed with self-deprecation swathed in hilarity is here an epistolary feat of “double consciousness,” the African American intellectual W.E.B. DuBois’ term for the twoness of self-presentation Black people developed in order to negotiate a white dominated society that prevented them from being anything beyond one-dimensional. At the end of this side of the exhibition is Greene’s former desk, a solid, leonine-footed structure, custom made for her in England, from which she built and steered the Morgan Library for nearly a quarter-century. Beside it is the last photograph taken of Greene. She is seated at her desk, dressed in a wide-lapelled pinstripe blazer, poring over one of her precious acquisitions. In Morgan Stanley Gallery East, the substance of Greene’s former existence – the family history she erased – is on display. For context, this half of the exhibition is couched in information about “passing,” a practice and psychology in American history of white-appearing Black people burying their pasts to live as white in order to evade the pervasive racial discrimination that would otherwise limit all their possibilities. Greene was born Belle Marion Greener. Her father, Richard T. Greener, was the first Black graduate of Harvard University. He’d gone on to an illustrious legal and academic career, holding a string of influential positions. But, his marriage to Belle’s mother, Genevieve Ida Fleet, also legally African American though racially ambiguous in appearance, ended bitterly, and Belle, her mother, and some of her siblings proceeded to completely disassociate themselves from not only him, but blackness altogether. They moved to New York City, dropped the “r” in their surname and Belle replaced her middle name with “da Costa,” presumably to give the suggestion she was of Portuguese extraction to preempt questions about her darker complexion. To modern-day observers, the notion that a woman of Greene’s physical appearance could pull the wool over so many for so long might seem perplexing. While her features were not unquestionably Black, they certainly weren’t indubitably Caucasian either. Viewed through a contemporary lens, Greene would not be passing, but rather passing for passing. When I repeatedly mentioned this thought to the friend who’d accompanied me to view the exhibition, an African American woman whose own mother she’d told me for years had been taken for Italian in the workplace, an assumption the mother sometimes corrected, sometimes didn’t, an assessment of risk made on a rolling basis – my friend reminded me that what makes sense now – what lay in the realm of possibilities within the collective consciousness – did not then. And therein lies the bigger backstory of race and rights that supplied the logic to secure in place Greene’s lie. College-educated African Americans were so rare in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that the likelihood dictated the perception. Although Greene was not in receipt of a college degree, she did attend a training program in library science, then a nascent field of study, at prestigious Amherst College, in Massachusetts. A photograph from 1900 of her among the class of some 40 fellow trainees is telling, personally and professionally. Greene is wedged in at the very back, as if for intentional inconspicuousness. Women far outnumber men in the shot, showing how the librarian profession, formerly the province of distinguished men, was becoming gendered female. And, closer scrutiny finds Greene is not the only person in the shot with an ethnically ambiguous appearance. One woman, in fact, is even much darker than Greene, leaving open the question, “What conditions qualified a person as white, or excused them from not-white – gave them a pass?” A handwritten letter on display in the exhibition speaks to this enigma. It is from a Charlotte Martins, superintendent of the purchasing department of the library of Princeton University, where Greene held her first job, from 1901, before she was hired by J.P. Morgan in 1905. The letter is very familial and warm, with Martins referring to herself and signing off as “Aunt Lottie.” The older woman had clearly looked out for Greene during her time in the rarefied Princeton environment. But, most significantly, the exhibition text notes, Martins, like Greene, was of mixed-race ancestry, and likely passing for white herself. As it turns out, Greene was probably known to her employers as Black the whole time. Another letter, penned in 1896 by a high society philanthropist, Grace Hoadley Dodge, to an Emma Moody, founder of a seminary school for young women in Massachusetts, imploring Moody to admit Greene, states, “While the trace of Negro blood is noticeable, Belle has always associated intimately with the best class of white girls.” This letter is not included in the exhibition, but written about on the Morgan Library website under the headline, “New Light on Belle da Costa Greene.” The write-up goes on to state, “Dodge was both a member of J. Pierpont Morgan’s social world and also his neighbor… Given their physical proximity and the fact that Dodge and Morgan traveled in the same close-knit social circles, it seems more than likely that Morgan himself was aware of Greene’s closely-guarded family history.” What appears to have captivated and impressed all those who promoted Greene was, as Dodge wrote, that she was “bright, quick to learn, easily influenced, full of fun and energy” and, according to another acquaintance, her “wild, gay humor.” An uncomfortable confluence of likability, lying, and location produced Belle da Costa Greene, made her ability make sense. “Belle da Costa Greene: A Librarian’s Legacy” | Morgan Library & Museum | Until May 4, 2025 Nicholas Boston, Ph.D., is a professor of media sociology at the City University of New York-Lehman College


--- [Belle de Costa Greene: Library Director, Advocate, and Rare Books ...] ---
In 1999, biographer Jean Strouse published her work on J. P. Morgan, railroad magnate, financier, and New York millionaire of the late 1800s. Of course, Belle de Costa Greene is featured in the book – she worked closely with Morgan for the last 8 years of his life as his personal librarian, managing his private art and rare book collection. Greene’s name was not unknown to history. The first half of the 20th century saw Greene rise as a top expert in the rare book world as librarian and first director of the Morgan Library and Museum. But Strouse discovered something new about Greene that presented Greene in whole new light. In an article for The New Yorker (March 29, 1999, p. 66-79), Strouse tells how she located Greene’s birth certificate in Washington, D.C. which was marked with a C for “colored.” Greene passed as white for her entire professional life. This is a fact both surprising and not – surprising that such a secret could be so well-kept and not surprising considering the prejudice of society. After the 1999 discovery, the first full-length biography of Greene was published in 2007 and more of her early story was pieced together. Greene was born as Belle Marion Greener in Washington, D.C. Her parents were Genevieve Ida Fleet and Richard Theodore Greener, the first Black graduate of Harvard University and a noted activist, lawyer, and diplomat. Near the turn of the century, Greene’s parents separated and her mother moved her children (of whom Belle was the oldest) to New York. Everyone in the family was light-skinned enough to pass as white, and Genevieve changed their last name to Greene. In her professional life, Belle would add “de Costa” to her name to support claimed Portuguese ancestry. It’s been a struggle to find out more about Greene’s personal life because she burned all her personal papers before her death. Most primary sources about her are her letters sent to others, her professional papers at the Morgan Library archive, and newspaper coverage of her and the library. Morgan hired Greene in 1905, just as the spectacular $2,000,000 building he commissioned as his library was completed. Morgan’s collection of rare books and fine art was frequently highlighted in art and literature picture sections of newspapers, especially as items were loaned to museums, such as the Met in New York, for display. As Morgan’s librarian, Greene managed and organized his collections and actively acquired more items to develop the scope of the library’s holdings. As a young woman in her 20’s in charge of a million-dollar collection and spending thousands of dollars acquiring more items, Belle de Costa Greene was a sensation to both fashionable society and the male-dominated art world. Nearly every newspaper that mentions Greene comments first and foremost on her stylish fashion, her clever conversations, and how she is unlike what you expect a librarian to be (old, bearded, dusty, etc.). The Boston Daily Globe said “it is rather gratifying to feminists to reflect that no near-sighted and anemic masculine scholar was Mr. Morgan’s helper in the long task of collecting the library treasure, but a woman, and a young and very pretty one at that” (“Belle Greene: She is the Curator of the Morgan Library,” December 17, 1916, p. SM15). And the New York Times commented “the ancient librarian is always pictured as having a gray beard and as wearing a skull cap. But here is one with a vivacious laugh, with brown eyes and rosy cheeks, who speaks delectable French, and who picks up a musty tome as gracefully as a butterfly alights on a dusty leaf. And she has individual ideas – ideas which her force of persuasion and her intelligence will eventually develop, backed as she is with Mr. Morgan’s wealth” (“Spending J. P. Morgan’s Money for Rare Books,” April 7, 1912, p. SM8). Yet, she was also unlike what you expect a young “society girl” to be. She mixed everything of the fashionable society woman with extensive knowledge of the art and literature world in order to be the “cleverest woman in the country.” Newspaper articles marveled at her accomplishments and capabilities as a savvy and expert curator, especially in the auction room. In the spring of 1911, society was most taken with Greene’s successful venture at the auction of the private collection of Robert Hoe, which was deemed the “event of the season in the auction room.” Almost the entire collection was bought by a private collector – but Greene had her eyes on one prize: William Caxton’s 1485 printing of Sir Thomas Mallory’s “Le Morte d’Artur,” which she won for $41,800 according to details in The World (NY). According to an article written before the auction in the Times Dispatch (Richmond, VA), Robert Hoe apparently “did not want his books to go to any public collection, there to lie unhandled and unread, in glazed show cases for the illiterate to stare at.” It was believed that private collectors would provide the best access to such treasures for scholarly research. Greene fiercely disagreed with this idea, and was a great proponent of public institutions having their chance to provide access to rare books and manuscripts. In one of her longest interviews given to a newspaper, Greene criticizes the rising art-world trend of paying exorbitant amounts of money for items that do not merit the cost. “My point is,” Greene is quoted, “that there are certain books which have a standard value and which are necessities to the student for reference… When the price of these volumes is raised, you injure the general public. (“J.P. Morgan’s Librarian Says High Book Prices Are Harmful,” New York Times (New York, NY), April 30, 1911, p. SM13). More expensive books meant that public institutions like public libraries and universities couldn’t afford to purchase them. Access to such items would be limited to whatever the private collector felt like providing. “The student of literature or history,” Greene says in the Times interview, “will not be able to go to first sources without making journeys that will be impossible in ordinary cases to the homes of multi-millionaires and getting their permission.” Ironically, Greene herself was purchasing for a private collector, but being open to scholars and students and providing as much accessibility as possible was very important to her job as librarian. “I care too much for the art of collecting to put rare books out of the reach of ordinary people,” she says at the close of the interview. This professional goal of hers is echoed in another interview she gave to the Times a year later and would be evident again later on in her advocacy of making Morgan’s collection into a public institution. Greene also showed that her advocacy was not limited to rare book circles, but extended to the entire sphere of librarianship. In an interview for the New-York Tribune, Greene used her social standing to give voice to the underpaid librarians (almost all women) of the New York City public libraries. She advocates for better compensation for library workers, especially for those still pursuing the extra education required for the field. “People don’t realize how much these girls have to know,” Greene says. “The result of these low salaries is, of course, that the women who are capable of filling the responsible positions are not willing to take them.” In March of 1913, J. P. Morgan died while traveling in Rome. The library collection was inherited by his son, Jack Morgan, who shared his father’s interests in collecting. Morgan Sr.’s will bequeathed to Greene the sum of $50,000 and specified that she be kept on as librarian. In 1924, Morgan Jr. incorporated the library as a public institution and memorial to his father, and Greene was made the first director of the Morgan Library. In the early days of the public institution, so many visitors wanted to come that there was a waiting list lasting for months! Greene spent her directorship providing access and developing the scholarship of the collection while balancing the need to protect and preserve the treasures. Exhibits, lectures, and publications were continually in the planning, as well as more collecting and cataloging. The library even participated in the New York World’s Fair in 1939 by giving an open house throughout the summer. She retired from the director position in 1948, and the Morgan Library put on a special exhibition commemorating both Greene’s retirement and the 25th anniversary of the library as a public institution. The New York Times’s coverage of the exhibit praises Green for having “transformed a rich man’s casually built collection into one of which ranks with the greatest in the world” (April 17, 1949, p. X8). Greene died in 1950 and left a brilliantly interesting (and sometimes mysterious) life and career to be studied. Search Chronicling America* for additional newspaper coverage of Belle de Costa Greene, the Morgan Library, and more. Let us know what you find in the comments! Additional Resources: Ardizzone, Heidi. An Illuminated Life: Belle da Costa Greene’s journey from prejudice to privilege. New York: W.W. Norton & Co., 2007. “Belle da Costa Greene, the Morgan’s First Librarian and Director,” The Morgan Library and Museum. Accessed 2 February 2022. Pierpont Morgan Library. The First Quarter Century of the Pierpont Morgan Library. New York, 1949. “The Women Who Made the Morgan,” The Morgan Library and Museum. April 23, 2021. YouTube video, 54:31. Fictional Works: Lapierre, Alexandra. Belle Greene: Roman. Paris: Flammarion, 2021. Benedict, Marie and Victoria Christopher Murray. The Personal Librarian. New York: Berkley, 2021. * The Chronicling America historic newspapers online collection is a product of the National Digital Newspaper Program and jointly sponsored by the Library and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Follow Chronicling America on Twitter @ChronAmLOC.
