=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Teresa Czerwińska - Wikipedia]
In 2015, she became the Undersecretary of the State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. [4] Within her role, Czerwińska was responsible for many areas within the department. She helped with the development and implementation of a new mechanism that uses algorithms to allocate budget subsidies for public universities.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teresa_Czerwi%C5%84ska

[Teresa Czerwińska - Curriculum Vitae, Areas of oversight & Declaration ...]
2015 - 2017: Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Republic of Poland 2015: Chairperson of the Audit Committee - Pioneer Pekao Investment Management
URL: https://www.eib.org/en/readonline-publications/information-teresa-czerwinska

[Teresa Czerwińska - TechWeek Singapore 2025]
Oct 9, 2025 · In the years 2015 - 2017, she was the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Teresa Czerwińska is a Professor of Economics at the Warsaw University specialising in finance and risk management. She obtained the habilitation degree at the Faculty of Management of the University of Gdańsk in 2010.
URL: https://www.singaporetechnologyweek.com/speakers/dr-teresa-czerwi%C5%84ska

[prof. Teresa Czerwińska - Instytut Finansów Publicznych]
Oct 22, 2024 · Vice-President, European Investment Bank Economist, professor at the Gdańsk University and later Warsaw University. Specialist in risk management, financial markets, and public finances. In 2015 – 2017, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, in 2017 – 2018, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Finance, in 2018 – 2019 Minister of Finance in the ...
URL: https://www.ifp.org.pl/en/prof-teresa-czerwinska-2/

[Teresa Czerwińska - European Economic Congress]
Before, in the years 2015 - 2017, she was the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Teresa Czerwińska is a Professor of Economics at the Warsaw University specialising in finances and risk management.
URL: https://www.eecpoland.eu/2024/en/speakers/teresa-czerwinska,12015.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Teresa Czerwińska - Wikipedia] ---
Teresa Czerwińska (born 7 September 1974) is a Polish economist originally from Latvia. Since 2020, she has served as a vice president of the European Investment Bank.


--- [Teresa Czerwińska - Curriculum Vitae, Areas of oversight & Declaration ...] ---
The Management Committee is the Bank’s permanent collegiate executive body. It has nine members. Under the authority of the President and the supervision of the Board of Directors, it oversees the day-to-day running of the EIB, prepares decisions for Directors and ensures that these are implemented. The President chairs the meetings of the Management Committee. The members of the Management Committee are responsible solely to the Bank; they are appointed by the Board of Governors, on a proposal from the Board of Directors, for a renewable period of six years. According to the Bank’s Statute, the President is also Chairman of the Board of Directors. Date of situation: 01/03/2026 Remuneration The remuneration of the members of the EIB Governing Bodies is set according to specific rules and regulations. Code of Conduct This Code of Conduct applies to the members of the Management Committee of the European Investment Bank. It sets out the rules applicable in matters of professional ethics and behaviour. Related pages - European Investment Bank appoints Marek Mora as new Vice-President - Karl Nehammer appointed new Vice-President of the European Investment Bank - Greece’s Ioannis Tsakiris appointed EIB Vice-President - Dutch diplomat Robert de Groot appointed EIB Vice-President - Nadia Calviño takes over as EIB President - EIB to welcome Germany’s Nicola Beer as Vice-President - Gelsomina Vigliotti appointed as EIB Vice-President - Ambroise Fayolle is appointed Member of the Management Committee - Ethics and Integrity Report 2022-2024 - EIB Group Corporate Governance Report for 2024 - Statute and other Treaty provisions - EIB Group Corporate Governance Report for 2023 - EIB Group Corporate Governance Report 2022 - Rules of Procedure - Code of Conduct of the Management Committee - The Governance of the European Investment Bank


--- [Teresa Czerwińska - TechWeek Singapore 2025] ---
Speakers Teresa Czerwińska VP, European Investment Bank Teresa Czerwińska was appointed the Vice President of the European Investment Bank in March 2020. In this role, alongside looking after the constituency countries (Poland, Hungary, Croatia) she is responsible for Eastern Partnership countries: Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan. She also oversees the matters of science, education, innovation, digital economy, and the InvestEU programme. Prior to becoming EIB Vice-President, Mrs Czerwińska was a member of the management board of the National Bank of Poland, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Poland, when she was also a Governor of the European Investment Bank. Earlier she held the position of the Undersecretary of State and was responsible for the state budget at the Ministry of Finance. In the years 2015 - 2017, she was the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Teresa Czerwińska is a Professor of Economics at the Warsaw University specialising in finance and risk management. She obtained the habilitation degree at the Faculty of Management of the University of Gdańsk in 2010. Sessions - 09-Oct-2025MainstageInvesting in Innovation: Financing Sustainable Growth in a Digital World


--- [prof. Teresa Czerwińska - Instytut Finansów Publicznych] ---
Economist, professor at the Gdańsk University and later Warsaw University. Specialist in risk management, financial markets, and public finances. In 2015 – 2017, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, in 2017 – 2018, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Finance, in 2018 – 2019 Minister of Finance in the administration of PM Mateusz Morawiecki, from 2019 to 2020, Member of the Board of the National Bank of Poland, as of 1 March 2020, Vice President of the European Investment Bank. Strona korzysta z plików cookie w celu realizacji usług zgodnie z Polityką prywatności. Możesz określić warunki przechowywania lub dostępu do cookie w Twojej przeglądarce lub konfiguracji usługi.


--- [Teresa Czerwińska - European Economic Congress] ---
EEC 2026 will continue the dialogue between entrepreneurs, leaders from the public and scientific sectors, and the younger generation of leaders, for whom the future of the economy also means social responsibility, energy and digital transformation, and a new approach to sustainable development Recognised authorities, distinctive individuals, decision-making politicians. Managers of major companies and entrepreneurs. Experts, scientists and media people. More than a thousand panellists at the European Economic Congress constitute a competent and opinion-forming group. Conversations on the most important economic and social issues affecting Poland, Europe and the world. News, analyses, reports, reports - see what our journalists and publicists have prepared for you. In April 2026, Katowice will once again become the capital of business, hosting the 18th edition of the European Economic Congress. Its organiser has just presented the main themes on which the agenda of EEC 2026 will be based. On 3rd December, 2025, at a Christmas meeting of EEC Members, a community involved in creating the congress, and the Programme Council of the European Economic Congress, the theme of the next edition of the EEC was presented: „The Power of Dialogue”. On April 22-24, 2026, Katowice will once again host one of Europe’s top debates on geopolitics and the future of the economy. The 18th European Economic Congress will attract prominent public figures, business leaders and top researchers. For three days, they will gather in Katowice to discuss the changing geopolitical landscape, answer key questions on the agency of Europe, the resilience of its economies, the pace of energy transition and the progress on the development of technologies that are capable of transforming the world. The sovereignty of industry, investments in green energy, digital security and competences of the future – all determining the position of Poland and entire European Union in the world – will top the agenda of next year’s edition of the event. Poland and Europe are facing numerous strategic challenges in the field of security, independence, defence, and competitiveness. The problems they need to solve involve key sectors of their economy – power, defence, cybersecurity, infrastructure, and industry. In order to achieve that, they need to promote a culture of constant cooperation between business, public administration, and decision-makers. With geopolitical instability in the background, it is critical to engage in dialogue about delivering stable growth based on long-term, strategic public investments. Once again, EEC Trends will provide a platform for this much-needed dialogue. Its participants will also discuss the significance of Poland’s admission to G20 and the opportunity it brings for the country's economy. The event, providing a prologue to the European Economic Congress – Central Europe's major business event – takes place on 9th February, 2026, at the Sheraton Grand Warsaw hotel. The 18th edition of the event will be held on 22-24 April, 2026, in the International Congress Centre in Katowice. Comprehensive support for Congress participants – convenient access to all key information and functions. Coming soon to the AppStore and Google Play 18,000 participants in person and online, over 1,300 speakers and nearly 200 thematic sessions, 320 partners and sponsors, and 650 media representatives – the scale of the European Economic Congress is reflected not only in statistics. Tomasz Ruszkowski sales & marketing director E-mail meBecome a partner of the largest business event in Central Europe. EEC is a place that combines opportunities to establish and develop business relations with the exchange of experience and gaining knowledge. Join the group of partners of the next edition and create this unique event with us. We look forward to working with you! The European Economic Congress is organised in prestigious venues, such as the International Congress Centre and the neighbouring iconic Spodek Arena, which are among the largest congress and exhibition venues in the country. Spodek to najbardziej rozpoznawalny symbol Katowic i jedno z najważniejszych miejsc wydarzeń na Śląsku. Jego charakterystyczna, futurystyczna bryła od ponad 50 lat przyciąga największe koncerty, widowiska i imprezy sportowe w Polsce. To przestrzeń, która łączy legendarną atmosferę z nowoczesną funkcjonalnością dla realizacji wydarzeń o różnorodnych formatach. One of the most modern event venues in Poland. Its distinctive architecture with a green valley and location in the prestigious Culture Zone set the ICC apart from other conference centres in the country. It is a modern space that builds Katowice's image as a dynamic centre of business and innovation.
