=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Merce Cunningham Dance Residency - digital.nga.gov.au]
Sep 16, 2018 · As resident designer, Robert Rauschenberg had an enduring creative role with the company from 1954 to 1964, whilst Jasper Johns assumed the role of artistic advisor from 1967.
URL: https://digital.nga.gov.au/archive/americanmasters/danceresidency/default.cfm.html

[Rauschenberg and Cunningham | Robert Rauschenberg Foundation]
Rauschenberg officially began working with the Merce Cunningham Dance Company in 1954, and throughout the next decade, he contributed to over twenty performances, providing lighting, set, and costume designs. Heeding Cunningham's unusual approach to collaboration, Rauschenberg often worked independently with little guidance.
URL: https://www.rauschenbergfoundation.org/art/lightboxes/rauschenberg-and-cunningham

[Merce Cunningham | The official website of the Praemium Imperiale]
John Cage was music director and worked together with the Company until his death in 1992. From 1954-64 Robert Rauschenberg was the Company's resident designer. There were other celebrated collaborations with visual artists such as Jasper Johns, Frank Stella, Andy Warhol, Robert Morris and Bruce Nauman, among many others.
URL: https://www.praemiumimperiale.org/en/laureate/cunningham/

[Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions]
Robert Rauschenberg served as the Company's resident designer from 1954 through 1964, followed by Jasper Johns (1967-1980) and Mark Lancaster (1980-1984).
URL: https://archives.nypl.org/dan/18602

[Merce Cunningham - Cynthia Gellis]
Cunningham’s most enduring collaboration was with his partner, composer John Cage. The two presented their first collaborative performance in 1944 and continued to work together until Cage’s death in 1992. As collaborators, they provocatively asserted that dance and music should not intentionally be coordinated. This is a radical departure from dan...
URL: https://cynthiagellis.com/2019/02/06/merce-cunningham/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Merce Cunningham Dance Residency - digital.nga.gov.au] ---
American Masters: Merce Cunningham Contemporary Dance Residency Residency overview | Merce Cunningham | Public Programs | Dancers American Masters: Merce Cunningham Contemporary Dance Residency album of images, supported by the Embassy of the United States of America. Tuesday 4 – Sunday 16 September 2018 Merce Cunningham is arguably the ‘American Master’ of modern dance. In presenting new forms of abstract movement from 1940 through 1980, the Merce Cunningham Dance Company collapsed the boundaries between visual and performance arts. Much of Cunningham’s practice was grounded in interdisciplinary collaboration, resulting in a hybridised understanding of what dance could be. By rethinking movement alongside sound, costume, set design and the concept of the stage, iconic works were developed with the leading artists of the time: John Cage, Andy Warhol, Bruce Nauman and Roy Lichtenstein. As resident designer, Robert Rauschenberg had an enduring creative role with the company from 1954 to 1964, whilst Jasper Johns assumed the role of artistic advisor from 1967. The National Gallery of Australia (NGA), with support from the Embassy of the United States of America, is hosting an international contemporary dance residency in association with American Masters 1940–1980. Here at the NGA, former Merce Cunningham Company dancer and current stager, Jamie Scott, will work with three Australian-based dancers to remount excerpts from several Merce Cunningham dances including Landrover (1972) and TV Rerun (1972). This program is made possible with the support of Merce Cunningham in Changeling. Photo by Richard Rutledge (1958). Image courtesy of the Merce Cunningham Trust. All rights reserved. Part of the Merce Cunningham Centennial Funding provided by the United States Government.


--- [Rauschenberg and Cunningham | Robert Rauschenberg Foundation] ---
Rauschenberg and Cunningham Rauschenberg’s collaborative relationship with choreographer Merce Cunningham began in 1952 when they participated in an untitled event, referred to as Theater Piece No. 1, organized by composer John Cage at Black Mountain College, North Carolina. Rauschenberg officially began working with the Merce Cunningham Dance Company in 1954, and throughout the next decade, he contributed to over twenty performances, providing lighting, set, and costume designs. Heeding Cunningham’s unusual approach to collaboration, Rauschenberg often worked independently with little guidance. As with the disparate actions that comprised Theater Piece No. 1, Cunningham believed that no medium should be subordinate—preferring music and decor to function as independent elements as opposed to complementing the choreography. Frequently dance, music, and decor came together only at the time of final rehearsals. Rauschenberg recalled, “It was the most excruciating collaboration, but it was the most exciting, and most real, because nobody knew what anybody else was doing until it was too late.” Working with relative freedom, many of Rauschenberg’s stage designs echoed his contemporaneous artistic production. For Minutiae (1954), Rauschenberg ultimately created a freestanding Combine with fabric and collage elements on a wooden structure that resembled his Red Paintings (1953–54). In Aeon (1961), the kinetic machine made of scrap metal and stroboscopic lights reflected Rauschenberg’s interest in the relationship between art and technology. Other set designs featured typical Rauschenbergian visual elements. In a later collaboration with Cage and Cunningham, Rauschenberg’s monumental set for Travelogue (1977), titled Tantric Geography (1977), features a row of chairs, a bicycle wheel, and colorful silk fans that resemble the recurring color wheels in Rauschenberg’s work and his Jammer series (1975–76). The decor for Interscape (2000), titled Interscape Mirage (2000), consists of a similarly characteristic montage of visual imagery. Despite their analogous relationship to his unique artworks and the independence with which they were created, Rauschenberg’s contributions often resonated with Cunningham’s choreographic concerns. Both were deeply interested in the relationship between art and life, and for several dances, such as Antic Meet (1958) and Story (1963), Cunningham asked Rauschenberg to utilize found objects in his sets and costumes—integrating the everyday into his performances. For Story, Cunningham wanted Rauschenberg to produce new sets for each performance comprised of locally sourced materials. When he could not locate sufficient supplies, Rauschenberg improvised “living sets.” In Venice, for example, he had an Italian stagehand sweep the stage throughout the performance and in four performances at London’s Phoenix Theater, Rauschenberg sat onstage and painted a picture, titled Story (1964). In Story, the variety of visual elements complemented the choreography’s open-form structure, which allowed the dancers to choose freely from several sequences. Their costumes could also be changed at will during performances by adding different objects and garments to their unadorned leotards, enhancing the aesthetic of chance and variation. As was Rauschenberg’s intention with his enigmatic use of assemblage and disparate images, Cunningham maintained that the title did not signify a single story or narrative, rather “each spectator may interpret the events in his own way.” Over the six decades of their relationship, Rauschenberg described his collaboration with Cunningham as founded on “carte-blanche trust,” attesting to a spirit of creative independence and mutual respect. –Jennifer Sarathy, Research Assistant, 2017


--- [Merce Cunningham | The official website of the Praemium Imperiale] ---
The 17th LaureateTheatre/Film Merce Cunningham Merce Cunningham is internationally recognized as a master of post-modernism. He was born in the State of Washington, and began his career as a soloist with the Martha Graham Company from 1939 to 1945. He formed his own company in 1953 at Black Mountain College, the progressive liberal arts school near Asheville, North Carolina. John Cage was music director and worked together with the Company until his death in 1992. From 1954-64Robert Rauschenberg was the Company’s resident designer. There were other celebrated collaborations with visual artists such as Jasper Johns, Frank Stella, Andy Warhol, Robert Morris and Bruce Nauman, among many others. As a dancer, Cunningham was a virtuosic presence on the stage and, as a choreographer, has been and continues to be a master and an innovator. While he has created nearly 200 works for his company, there is always change and renewal, as the work is refreshed by new challenges and technological advances over the years, including the use of video, computer, film and technologies such as motion capture technology that was used in his 1999 work Biped. Using chance techniques such as dice-rolling and coin-flipping to determine movement, he created abstract choreography, and his interest in technology has led him to pioneer a new choreography tool, the computer program "Life Forms" (now called "Dance Forms") to create his dances since 1991. His influence in dance and theater has been enormous, as he constantly pushed boundaries and challenged conventions. Most particularly his sense of the dance as an evolving organic presence with the music and décor as separate but equal partners has been important not only for the development of dance, but also for music and visual art. For the 50th year anniversary celebration in 2003, the Merce Cunningham Company presented revivals of important works at the Lincoln Center Festival in New York, and performed at European festivals as well. His most recent work, Fluid Canvas, premiered at the Barbican Centre in London. This year, Cunningham’s longest and grandest work, "Ocean, " opened the Lincoln Center Festival. The intricate 90-minute production was his last collaboration with John Cage who devised the work with him in 1991. Cunningham says, "The human body is limited. But within the framework of what is possible, variety is endless." Biography Merce Cunningham is internationally recognized as a master of post-modernism. He was born in the State of Washington, and began his career as a soloist with the Martha Graham Company from 1939 to 1945. He formed his own company in 1953 at Black Mountain College, the progressive liberal arts school near Asheville, North Carolina. John Cage was music director and worked together with the Company until his death in 1992. From 1954-64 Robert Rauschenberg was the Company’s resident designer. There were other celebrated collaborations with visual artists such as Jasper Johns, Frank Stella, Andy Warhol, Robert Morris and Bruce Nauman, among many others. As a dancer, Cunningham was a virtuosic presence on the stage and, as a choreographer, has been and continues to be a master and an innovator. While he has created nearly 200 works for his company, there is always change and renewal, as the work is refreshed by new challenges and technological advances over the years, including the use of video, computer, film and technologies such as motion capture technology that was used in his 1999 work Biped. Using chance techniques such as dice-rolling and coin-flipping to determine movement, he created abstract choreography, and his interest in technology has led him to pioneer a new choreography tool, the computer program Life Forms (now called Dance Forms) to create his dances since 1991. His influence in dance and theater has been enormous, as he constantly pushed boundaries and challenged conventions. Most particularly his sense of the dance as an evolving organic presence with the music and décor as separate but equal partners has been important not only for the development of dance, but also for music and visual art. For the 50th year anniversary celebration in 2003, the Merce Cunningham Company presented revivals of important works at the Lincoln Center Festival in New York, and performed at European festivals as well. His most recent work, Fluid Canvas, premiered at the Barbican Centre in London. This year, Cunningham’s longest and grandest work Ocean, opened the Lincoln Center Festival. The intricate 90-minute production was his last collaboration with John Cage who devised the work with him in 1991. Cunningham says, "The human body is limited. But within the framework of what is possible, variety is endless." He passed away on July 26, 2009, New York Chronology Given Officer of the Légion d’Honneur of France - At his studio in New York - At his studio in New York - Changeling, 1956 - From left:John Cage, Merce Cunningham, Robert Rauschenberg, 1964 - Rainforest, 1969 - Interscape, 2000


--- [Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions] ---
Scope and arrangement The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions hold administrative files, company management and technical files, development files, and repertory files, as well as press materials, programs, and photographs. Administrative files consist of Board of Directors material as well as financial ledgers, contracts, film and music documents, and the papers of CDF's archivist, David Vaughan. Company Management files document the technical logistics of touring a dance company. Development files hold grant applications, correspondence with individual donors, and materials related to galas and art sales which supported the company. Repertory files document the creation of individual dances. Press materials consist of clippings, flyers, newsletters, and press releases. Photographs include professional shots of dancers and individual dances, as well as slides and negatives documenting the company and CDF events. The Merce Cunningham Dance Foundation, Inc. records, Additions are arranged in seven series: - 1890-2011 The Cunningham Dance Foundation administrative files consist of Board of Directors material as well as contracts; financial ledgers; artist, film, and sound documents; and the papers of Merce Cunningham and CDF's archivist, David Vaughan. Board of Directors correspondence, arranged alphabetically, includes updates on ongoing projects, items of interest for individuals on specific committees (such as the Financial Committee), reminders to raise a yearly contribution, and resignation and acceptance letters. Board of Directors minutes, arranged by year, hold a record of each meeting, memos, and copies of financial and executive committee reports, as well as information about fundraising efforts. Board meetings covered the financial well being of CDF, election of new members, and strategies for growth. David Vaughan's files hold correspondence with current and past co-workers, lecture and study notes, writings, and notes compiled using information found in the archive. The notes include a dance-by-dance compilation of information relating to individual compositions by Cunningham. They consist of statements by Cunningham regarding the development or intention of the dance, remembrances of the dances by Vaughan and others, photocopies of articles and related published material, and quotes by Cunningham on the nature of dance in general. Vaughan's notes were ultimately used to compile his 1984 article, "The Choreography of Merce Cunningham: Chronology and Commentary" which is also held in these files. A limited selection of artist files hold correspondence and designs from visual artists and costume designers who worked with Cunningham. Such designs often preceded a dance – for example, Suzanne Gallo's file holds a fully formed design idea, including costumes, lighting, and sets with no particular dance attached. These files may also contain gallery loan information and summaries of the artist's work. Film files hold correspondence with collaborators on visual projects, video preservation documentation, transcripts and their translations, and video inventories. Sound files consist of correspondence with musical artists and composers, contracts, and scores produced for or used by Cunningham. There is also a small selection of late 19th/early 20th century published sheet music, some of which was used for Dime a Dance (1953). Since Cunningham did not choreograph specifically for music or vice versa, these materials were kept separately. There are also personnel files, financial ledgers, sample dance company contracts, and surveys. This series also contains a small selection of Merce Cunningham's personal files. These consist of incoming correspondence and "notes to Merce" from staff, presidential invitations and honorary degrees, and the Life Forms manuals for his dance creation software. There are also notes used by Cunningham to conduct classes, workshops, and rehearsal warm-ups. Electronic records in this series include files created while Elliot Caplan was the filmmaker in residence. These files include correspondence regarding screenings, personal appearances and lectures; reviews of his films; interview requests for Cage/Cunningham; and responses to requests for copies of his films or press kits. Michael Stier's electronic files hold correspondence regarding video licensing and distribution requests and inventories created during his time as CDF's film and video distribution coordinator. David Vaughan's records include drafts of Vaughan's histories of the company by year (1935-1996), video clips compiled for the CDF website, photographs of Cunningham and others, and some individual dance descriptions and biographical information on Merce Cunningham and other artists. There are also copies of the Board of Directors meeting minutes (1992-1999) which are accompanied by company budgets and some staff resumes. Arranged alphabetically by file type. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1945-2011 The company management files were created by the administrative staff and various road staff, including stage managers and technical directors. These materials document the logistics of moving a company to its various performances and locations each year. There is correspondence between event organizers, local staff, managers, and CDF staff. Correspondence details lighting, sound, and electrical needs; hotel bookings; rehearsal space rental arrangements; numbers of traveling crew and performers; and local fire codes. There are also loading lists, local contracts, tour itineraries, production schedules, and program mockups. For venues where the company performed regularly (such as City Center), there are close-out notes with suggestions for changes to be made in the next year with light rentals and scenery positioning, as well as reminders of quick fixes that worked. These files track the details of setting an individual dance or series of dances into a specific venue. Technical files include light plots, instrument schedules, structural drawings, light cues, line set schedules, channel hook-ups, and magic sheets. Magic sheets provided a quick visual reference to each channel and the fixture(s) it controlled. Most of the technical drawings contain production and venue information. Some technical files contain memos advising the house crew working at each venue as to the specific electrical needs of the company. Electronic records in this series are both company management and technical files, and include tour itineraries, correspondence from production managers to various venues, load-in lists, light cue sheets, and outlines of specific venue configurations. This series is arranged chronologically. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1965-2010 The Development files hold grant materials, individual donor files, and material relating to fundraisers and galas hosted by CDF. The grant files consist of grant applications, contracts, vouchers, reports, correspondence with grant-giving organizations and meeting minutes. The bulk of the files are grant applications with the National Endowment for the Arts and New York City's Department for the Development of Cultural Affairs. Individual donor files hold correspondence thanking non-corporate donors for one time or continuing gifts. These files primarily date from 2009 to 2011, during the height of the campaign to fund the Legacy Plan. Gala and fundraising files consist of correspondence, invitations, guest books, and planning notes related to CDF's other fundraising opportunities. These include gala performances, art shows and sales, and post-performance "meet and greet" receptions. These files also contain correspondence with artists who donated works to be sold or shown by CDF. Arranged alphabetically by file type. - 1953-2008 Repertory production files document the creation and packaging of individual dances. Created by Cunningham and collaborating artists and technicians, these files hold original light cues, photographs, costume designs, credit sheets, prop lists, cue sheets, universal stage diagrams, and correspondence with scenic designers. These files document the assembly of a dance up until the minute it is ready to go on the road. Event files often have little to no division between individual Events. For files relating to the mounting of dances at specific venues, users should consult Series II, Company management and technical files. Electronic records in this series consist of files used to compile the dance capsules. Pioneered by the Cunningham Dance Foundation before it closed, these digital capsules were created to preserve 58 works from the Cunningham repertory for study and setting the dances on other companies. The Events capsule contains files from many separate Events. The capsules include varying levels of detail in content. Dance capsule files may include a brief description of the dance, audio samples of music, scans of costume sketches, photographs, and set designs, lighting plots, video clips of the entire dance or just a portion, and choreographic notes. Organized into productions and events, productions are arranged alphabetically by title of piece. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1948-2009 The photographs series consists of professional prints, slides and negatives of dancers, artists, Cunningham, and individual productions and events. The individuals files are largely headshots, though photographs of Merce Cunningham also consist of unlabeled rehearsal, workshop, and performance shots. The productions and events images are either action shots of the dance in progress or full stage shots of the props and art used in tandem with each piece. There are also candid snapshots from galas and other CDF events, and photographs of posters, magazine covers, and other material related to CDF. Promotional photographs include images of the full company used for advertising. Photographs of the archive as it was housed at CDF before its move to the library are here. Electronic records in this series are 80 images taken of a Totem Ancestor revival. Arranged alphabetically by file title. Electronic records are currently unavailable. - 1950-2011 Series VI holds programs and accompanying ephemera documenting performances by the Merce Cunningham Dance Company and the Repertory Understudy group. The bulk of the materials date from 2003 to 2011, and contain some promotional materials interspersed with the programs. These items include venue calendars, ticket stubs, souvenir booklets, flyers, postcards, organizational publications, and invitations. A smaller selection of programs dating from 1950 to 2002 are also present, as well as materials representing the performances of Cunningham choreography by outside dance companies. This series also holds monographs, exhibition catalogs, and other materials showcasing festivals, lectures, art installations, tribute galas, and other events involving Cunningham and his collaborators (including John Cage, Charles Atlas, Bruce Nauman, Robert Rauschenberg and fashion house Comme des Garçons). Arranged chronologically. - 1940-2012 Press and publicity materials consist of advertising files, clippings, flyers, CDF newsletters, and press releases. Advertising files hold correspondence with dance magazines and other publications as well as design mockups. The clippings (both domestic and foreign) were kept by administrative staff throughout CDF's existence. Many of the clippings are photocopy reproductions. Press releases document new works, changes at the company, tour dates, and fundraising galas. CDF newsletters (2006-2008) were sent to donors, other dance companies, and various other supporters of Cunningham's work and provided updates on upcoming events and seasons, as well as articles by Cunningham himself. The flyers, used for advertisement on tour and when the company was in residence at City Center or another venue, advertise performance dates, ticket sale times, and workshops. Electronic records in this series are scanned clippings, 1989-1990. Arranged alphabetically by file title. Electronic records are currently unavailable.


--- [Merce Cunningham - Cynthia Gellis] ---
I recently made a trek to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) with a couple of friends for a day of culture and artistic inspiration. My ulterior motive for our little excursion was to see a special video installation of Merce Cunningham’s work. The exhibit is called Merce Cunningham, Clouds and Screens and is on display through March 31, 2019. I find Merce Cunningham fascinating, so this will be a two-part post. Today will be some background about him and next week’s post will be about the exhibit. Merce Cunningham (1919-2009) was a mid-20th century, American, modern dance pioneer. Growing up, Cunningham studied tap dancing. This medium emphasizes precise musical timing and rhythm, which would become foundations of his technique. His first professional dance experience was with the Martha Graham company. He danced with Graham for six years (1939-1945) before leaving to establish his own dance company, Merce Cunningham Dance Company (MCDC). A prolific creator, over the course of his 60+ year career, Cunningham created 190-200 dances and 700-800 events. A Cunningham dance is a stand-alone piece of choreography, which could be recreated. By contrast, an event is defined as a site/time specific performance. Mindful of his artistic legacy, he established the Merce Cunningham Trust in 2000 to hold and administer the rights to his works after his death. His work is known for innovative use of collaboration, chance, perspective, and technology. Collaboration Cunningham’s most enduring collaboration was with his partner, composer John Cage. The two presented their first collaborative performance in 1944 and continued to work together until Cage’s death in 1992. As collaborators, they provocatively asserted that dance and music should not intentionally be coordinated. This is a radical departure from dance convention. Cunningham’s collaborations with visual artists included Robert Rauchenberg (MCDC resident designer 1954-1964), Jasper Johns (MCDC artistic advisor 1967-1980), Rei Kawakubo, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol, and filmmaker Charles Atlas. Chance To me this is the most fascinating and innovative facet of Cunningham’s work. Cunningham and Cage became interested in the concept of chance in the 1950’s when a translation of the ancient Chinese text, I Ching was published in the U.S. They began using stochastic operation (random chance) to determine musical composition and dance movements. Stochastic operation was employed by Cunningham in a number of different ways. It could be used to create steps, to determine the sequence of steps, and/or even the number/composition of performers. In order to create steps, Cunningham divided the body into parts – head, arms, torso, legs. He would generate lists of all possible movements for each part, then use random chance to determine the movement of each part in order to create a step. This created choreography that was often exceedingly difficult to execute. Often sequences and dancers would not be determined until just before the performance. Further, this was all done without regard to the music, which would be determined by its own chance procedure. As someone who likes to plan and prepare, this concept is mind-boggling and maybe slightly terrifying. However, as someone who has had the opportunity to experience performances structured by this method, I find it an amazing opportunity to create great art. Perspective Cunningham discarded the conventions of proscenium orientation. Work could occur on any part of the stage, oriented in any direction (not necessarily front) at any point. Technology The most long-reaching facet of Cunningham’s work may be his pioneering use of technology in dance – video in the 1970s and computers beginning in the 1980s. I believe that one key reason that he was able to so successfully translate his work to the video medium is his abandonment of proscenium perspective. Dance that is oriented to and filmed from an exclusively front-facing perspective tends to lack dimension to the viewer. By abandoning this convention, he enabled the camera and by proxy, the viewer, to become a part of the movement. He was an early adopted of a computer program, DanceForms which enabled him to create choreography via computer that would later be translated onto living dancers. Cunningham viewed randomness as a positive, naturally occurring quality. I find his dedication to the concept of chance both contradictory and inspiring. He very consciously committed to developing and cultivating a level of virtuosity that would allow his dancers to execute movement that however randomly generated had begun as a very specific and defined idea. In his work the movement stands alone, it does not represent a narrative or ideas such as emotions. He was very self-consciously trying to avoid imposing his own biases upon his work. Next week, part II of this post will talk about the exhibit, Merce Cunningham, Clouds and Screens.
