=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[128 Bar - Society of Illustrators]
The Society’s 128 Bar is located within the third floor Garden Gallery. Visitors to The 128 Bar will find a perfect pairing of new and old, with modern touches to classic favorite cocktails. The bar is situated under Norman Rockwell’s “The Dover Coach”, a large-scale oil painting featuring Christmas travelers created for The Saturday Evening Post. Donated by the artist in 1939, this ...
URL: https://societyillustrators.org/128-bar/

[r/NormanRockwellArt - Study for the Christmas Coach. 1935 illustration.]
Info about the OG piece: Not more needs to be said about Norman Rockwell (1894–1978). He was one of the greatest illustrators of all time, and was a good friend to the Society. Rockwell’s The Dover Coach was created for “The Christmas Coach” and appeared in The Saturday Evening Post on December 28, 1935. The caption reads: “Happy, happy Christmas, that can win us back to the ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/NormanRockwellArt/comments/mulze1/study_for_the_christmas_coach_1935_illustration/

[From our Permanent Collection: Norman Rockwell's "The Dover ...]
Rockwell's The Dover Coach was created for "The Christmas Coach" and appeared in The Saturday Evening Post on December 28, 1935. ... This piece was donated to the ...
URL: https://www.tumblr.com/societyillustrators/101181954192/from-our-permanent-collection-norman-rockwells

[The Christmas Coach - by Scott Monty - Classy AF - Substack]
A bit of a Dickensian mashup, the original study was titled The Dover Coach by Rockwell, as the caption came from The Pickwick Papers (as above) ...
URL: https://classyaf.substack.com/p/the-christmas-coach

[Bonhams : Norman Rockwell (1894-1978) Study for The Christmas ...]
The present work is a study for Rockwell's painting The Christmas Coach (Dover Coach), 1935 (Collection of the Society of Illustrators, Museum of Illustration, New York), originally featured in The Saturday Evening Post on December 28, 1935.
URL: https://www.bonhams.com/auction/23480/lot/51/norman-rockwell-1894-1978-study-for-the-christmas-coach-dover-coach-30-12-x-24-14in-executed-in-1935/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [128 Bar - Society of Illustrators] ---
The Society’s 128 Bar is located within the third floor Garden Gallery. Visitors to The 128 Bar will find a perfect pairing of new and old, with modern touches to classic favorite cocktails. The bar is situated under Norman Rockwell’s “The Dover Coach”, a large-scale oil painting featuring Christmas travelers created for The Saturday Evening Post. Donated by the artist in 1939, this famous painting has become a favorite of visitors and members to the Museum. History of the Bar In August 1939, the Society purchased the building and renovations began, converting what was once a stable area into a private club for illustrators and art directors. Originally built in 1951, the Society’s bar was housed in what is now our fourth floor Library. Closed to the public, the lounge area was only open to members and was a place for illustrators and art directors to discuss business. In the 1960s the bar was relocated to the third floor within what was once called the Hall of Fame Gallery and welcomed all visitors to the Society, a tradition that continues today. By 1952, renovations were made to the Third Floor, creating a private gathering space for members and their guests. A bar was added that sported carvings that once graced Charles Dana Gibson’s dining room sideboard, and was completed with an original Norman Rockwell, gifted to the Society by the artist himself. More recently, the Society has converted the space to display artwork, balancing historic pieces alongside today’s talented newcomers. Now open to the public, guests are invited to view cutting edge shows featuring the best in illustration, comic, and cartoon art while enjoying a nice drink! And the glorious outdoor patio offers visitors an experience where the space is as fantastic as the art!


--- [r/NormanRockwellArt - Study for the Christmas Coach. 1935 illustration.] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NormanRockwellArt Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NormanRockwellArt r/NormanRockwellArt • Tokyono Study for the Christmas Coach. 1935 illustration. Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 20, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation


--- [From our Permanent Collection: Norman Rockwell's "The Dover ...] ---
From our Permanent Collection: Norman Rockwell's "The Dover Coach" Not more needs to be said about Norman Rockwell (1894–1978). He was one of the greatest illustrators of all time, and was a good friend to the Society. Rockwell's The Dover Coach was created for "The Christmas Coach" and appeared in The Saturday Evening Post on December 28, 1935. The caption reads: “Happy, happy Christmas, that can win us back to the delusions of our childish days; that can recall to the old man the pleasures of his youth; and transport the sailor and the traveler, thousands of miles away, back to his own fireside, his quiet home!” (From the Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club). This piece was donated to the Society by the artist. Below is how it appeared in print: Rockwell once described painting the piece: “This was painted for The Saturday Evening Post in California during a very hot August. The heat in the studio was terrific. Perhaps you can see that the faces are shiny: that is perspiration. I especially remember the stagecoach driver wrapped in those heavy clothes, with sweat running down his face and off his nose . . . The wonderful part of working near Hollywood is that you can find everything. A place outside the city has every type of historic vehicle, including perfect English coaches . . . This painting now hangs in the clubhouse of the Society of Illustrators, New York." And for those who visited the Society this Summer and found the piece missing from it's spot above the historic bar, we are happy to announce that is has returned! "The Dover Coach" needed some necessary repairs, and this was handled by the Williamstown Art Conservation Lab where it was relined and re-stretched on custom-made stretchers and reglazed with Optium acrylic to reduce glare and filter out UV rays. Norman Rockwell was the first person to be inducted into the Society's Hall of Fame in 1958. Here he is receiving the award!


--- [The Christmas Coach - by Scott Monty - Classy AF - Substack] ---
No content


--- [Bonhams : Norman Rockwell (1894-1978) Study for The Christmas ...] ---
Elizabeth Meyer Head of Auction Administration This auction has ended. View lot details Sold for US$75,000 inc. premium Our American Art specialists can help you find a similar item at an auction or via a private sale. Find your local specialistHead of Auction Administration Provenance The artist. Clyde Forsythe, gift from the above. Edward Ainsworth, Los Angeles, California, gift from the above, circa 1960. Private collection, by descent. Sale, Sotheby's, New York, November 20, 2014, lot 68. Acquired by the present owner from the above. The present work is a study for Rockwell's painting The Christmas Coach (Dover Coach), 1935 (Collection of the Society of Illustrators, Museum of Illustration, New York), originally featured in The Saturday Evening Post on December 28, 1935. This lot is included in the Norman Rockwell Museum's Digital Collection and online catalogue raisonné of the artist's work at www.collection.nrm.org. It has been assigned the identification number 23723.
