=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Don Norman - Wikipedia]
In 2006, he received the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science. [8] In 2009, Norman was elected an Honorary Fellow of the Design Research Society.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don_Norman

[Donald Norman | The Franklin Institute]
He has received numerous honors including the APA's Franklin V. Taylor Award and Presidential Citation and a Lifetime Achievement Award from the ACM Human-Computer Interaction group.
URL: https://fi.edu/en/awards/laureates/donald-norman

[Donald Norman awarded Benjamin Franklin medal for his work on user ...]
Mar 4, 2006 · The ceremony will take place on 27 April 2006. For 182 years, The Franklin Institute has honored the greatest men and women of science, engineering, and technology. The Franklin Institute Awards are among the oldest and most prestigious comprehensive science awards in the world.
URL: https://blog.experientia.com/donald-norman-awarded-benjamin-franklin-medal-for-his-work-on-user-centred-design/

[Donald Norman, PhD – FABBS]
In 2006, Norman received the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer & Cognitive Science from the Franklin Institute (Philadelphia). Norman brings a unique mix of the social sciences and engineering to bear on everyday products.
URL: https://fabbs.org/about/in-honor-of/donald-norman-phd/

[The emotional design of everyday things: The 2006 Benjamin Franklin ...]
Request PDF | The emotional design of everyday things: The 2006 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science presented to Donald A. Norman | Donald Norman changed and continues to ...
URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/222803462_The_emotional_design_of_everyday_things_The_2006_Benjamin_Franklin_Medal_in_Computer_and_Cognitive_Science_presented_to_Donald_A_Norman


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Don Norman - Wikipedia] ---
Donald Arthur Norman (born December 25, 1935) is an American researcher, professor, and author. Norman is the founding director of The Design Lab at University of California, San Diego. He is best known for his books on design, especially The Design of Everyday Things. He is widely regarded for his expertise in the fields of design, usability engineering, and cognitive science, and has shaped the development of the field of cognitive systems engineering. He is a co-founder of the Nielsen Norman Group, along with Jakob Nielsen. He is also an IDEO fellow and a member of the Board of Trustees of IIT Institute of Design in Chicago. He also holds the title of Professor Emeritus of Cognitive Science at the University of California, San Diego. Norman is an active Distinguished Visiting Professor at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), where he spends two months a year teaching.
Much of Norman's work involves the advocacy of user-centered design. His books all have the underlying purpose of furthering the field of design, from doors to computers. Norman has taken a controversial stance in saying that the design research community has had little impact in the innovation of products, and that while academics can help in refining existing products, it is technologists that accomplish the breakthroughs. To this end, Norman named his website with the initialism JND (just-noticeable difference) to signify his endeavors to make a difference.


--- [Donald Norman | The Franklin Institute] ---
Donald Norman believes that everyday things need not wreak havoc in our lives. Instead, he likes things that make us smile, things that we can use gracefully the very first time. His goal is to make the interplay between science and application extremely productive, with machines designed so well we do not think about them as machines. After graduating with a degree in electrical engineering from MIT in 1957, Norman went to the University of Pennsylvania hoping to study computers. At that time the university lacked computer courses, so Norman continued his studies in electrical engineering, earning an M.S. in 1959. He shifted his focus from engineering to psychology and earned his Ph.D. in 1962. "I decided that if I couldn't study computers, I would study the human brain--the other computational device," Norman says. After four years at Harvard University's Center for Cognitive Studies, he joined the department of psychology at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). When consulting on the Three Mile Island nuclear accident, Norman realized his unique combination of engineering and psychology could be combined in the study of design. His research moved to the study of aviation safety and computers. After a sabbatical in England and being frustrated doing simple tasks like working doors and lights, he shifted his focus to everyday things, leading him to write the seminal book, The Psychology of Everyday Things. In order to develop an understanding of how design principles translate into consumer products, he worked at Apple Computer, Hewlett Packard, and Cardean Learning Systems, Unext. Today, Norman is a professor of electrical engineering and computer science, psychology, and cognitive science at Northwestern University and a professor emeritus at UCSD. He is also co-founder and principal of the Nielsen Norman Group, where he is engaged in advising companies on products and services. Norman is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Association for Computational Machinery (ACM), and the American Psychological Association (APA). He is a founding member and fellow of the Cognitive Science Society and a charter fellow of the American Psychological Society. He has received numerous honors including the APA's Franklin V. Taylor Award and Presidential Citation and a Lifetime Achievement Award from the ACM Human-Computer Interaction group. Information as of April 2006


--- [Donald Norman awarded Benjamin Franklin medal for his work on user ...] ---
Donald Norman awarded Benjamin Franklin medal for his work on user-centred design This was announced this Wednesday by the Franklin Institute, in Philadelphia, USA. The ceremony will take place on 27 April 2006. For 182 years, The Franklin Institute has honored the greatest men and women of science, engineering, and technology. The Franklin Institute Awards are among the oldest and most prestigious comprehensive science awards in the world. Among science’s highest honors, The Franklin Institute Awards identify individuals whose great innovation has benefited humanity, advanced science, launched new fields of inquiry, and deepened our understanding of the universe. 2006 laureates Background story (Philadelphia Business Journal)


--- [Donald Norman, PhD – FABBS] ---
In Honor Of… Donald Norman Honoring scientists who have made important and lasting contributions to the sciences of mind, brain, and behavior. Donald Norman, PhD Professor of Computer Science, Psychology, and Cognitive Science Northwestern University Professor of Cognitive Science and Psychology, Emeritus University of California, San Diego Don Norman considers himself an applied cognitive scientist. He received a B.S. degree from MIT and an MS degree from the University of Pennsylvania, both in Electrical Engineering. His doctorate, from the University of Pennsylvania, is in Psychology. He was one of the first graduates of Penn’s newly created Mathematical Psychology group and his graduate advisor was Duncan Luce. He has two honorary degrees: a doctorate in Industrial Design and Engineering from the Delft University of Technology (the Netherlands) and the S. V. della laurea ad honorem from the University of Padua (Italy). He lives two lives: theory and applications. As a cognitive scientist, he studies, teaches, and writes about the relationship between technology and people. In his applied life, he helps companies make products that appeal to the emotions as well as to reason. Following a Harvard University faculty position, he spent 29 years at the University of California, San Diego in the departments of Psychology and Cognitive Science, for which he served as chair and founding chair, respectively. He is now Professor Emeritus in both departments, as well as Professor of Computer Science, Psychology, and Cognitive Science at Northwestern University. He has been a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences (Stanford). In-between UCSD and Northwestern he was vice-president of Advanced Technology at Apple, an executive at HP, President of an educational, distance-learning startup, and co-founder of a consulting company (a position that he still holds). He has published extensively in Cognitive Psychology. The co-edited and co-authored books Explorations in Cognition and Human Information Processing were highly influential, the first a collection of research papers from the laboratory he managed with David Rumelhart, the second a popular textbook that helped introduce information processing to psychology, an area that over time became Cognitive Psychology and then Cognitive Science. He was one of the founders of the Cognitive Science Society and has been chair of the society and editor of its journal, Cognitive Science. In 2006, Norman received the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer & Cognitive Science from the Franklin Institute (Philadelphia). Norman brings a unique mix of the social sciences and engineering to bear on everyday products. Although he is a strong advocate of human-centered design and simplicity and perhaps best known for his book, The Design of Everyday Things, he now wants to ensure that products appeal to the emotions as well as to reason, a point he argued for in his book Emotional Design: Why we love (or hate) everyday things. He is the author or co-author of sixteen books, his most recent being The Design of Future Things. In 2002, he received the “Lifetime Achievement Award” from the Special Interest Group on Computer-Human Interaction, the professional organization for Computer-Human Interaction. In 2005, he received the Franklin V. Taylor Award for “outstanding contribution to the field of Applied Experimental and Engineering Psychology” from the American Psychological Association. He is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association, the Association for Psychological Science, the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society, the Association for Computing Machinery, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He is cofounder of the Nielsen Norman Group, an executive consulting firm that helps companies produce human-centered products and services. Norman serves as advisor and board member to numerous companies and non-profit organizations in the area of policy and education. Among others, he serves on the editorial advisory board of Encyclopedia Britannica and on the external advisory board for the Industrial Design Department of the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST). Norman was a founding member of FABBS (formerly the Federation of Behavioral, Psychological, and Cognitive Sciences), the parent organization of Fabbs. Individuals Honoring Donald Norman: Liam J. Bannon, University of Limerick Thomas D. Erickson, Association for Computing Machinery Dedre Gentner, Northwestern University Arthur C. Graesser, University of Memphis * Jonathan Grudin, Microsoft Corporation Robin Jeffries Michael Jordan, University of California, Berkeley James Levin, University of California, San Diego Matthew W. Lewis Clayton H. Lewis, University of Colorado Boulder James McClelland, Stanford University Philip J. Mercurio, Association for Computing Machinery James R. Miller, Miramontes Computing Michael Mozer, University of Colorado Boulder David Navon, Haifa University Julie Norman Judith S. Olson, University of Michigan * Richard W. Pew, BBN Technologies Steven E. Poltrock, The Boeing Company James R. Pomerantz, Rice University Marc M. Sebrechts, Catholic University of America Henry Strub Jiajie Zhang, University of Texas at Houston * The FABBS Foundation would like to thank Dr. Jonathan Grudin and Dr. Richard W. Pew for nominating Dr. Norman for this honor and for leading the effort to spread the word about his nomination.


--- [The emotional design of everyday things: The 2006 Benjamin Franklin ...] ---
No content
