=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Morris Kern - Wikipedia]
David Morris Kern (August 4, 1909 - May 3, 2013) was an American pharmacist and businessman. Kern developed and co-invented Orajel, a topical medication applied to relieve pain from toothaches and mouth sores. [1] Kern was born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, New York. [1] He graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Morris_Kern

[David Morris Kern Facts for Kids]
Kids Encyclopedia Facts David Morris Kern (born August 4, 1909 - died May 3, 2013) was an American pharmacist and a smart businessman. He is best known for helping to create Orajel, a special medicine you put on your gums to stop pain from toothaches and mouth sores. Early Life and Career David Kern was born in Manhattan, New York, in 1909.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/David_Morris_Kern

[David Morris Kern - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia]
Oct 2, 2024 · David Morris Kern Top # 7 Facts David Morris Kern (1909 – May 3, 2013) was an American pharmacist and businessman. Kern developed and co-invented Orajel, a topical medication applied to relieve pain from toothaches and mouth sores. Kern was born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He graduated from the Brooklyn College of ...
URL: https://alchetron.com/David-Morris-Kern

[David Kern (1909 — March 3, 2013), American pharmacist | World ...]
Mar 3, 2013 · Background Kern was born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, New New York Education He graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy. Career Kern developed and co-invented Orajel, a topical medication applied to relieve pain from toothaches and mouth sores. Kern began his career as a pharmacist. He then became a salesperson for Norwich Warner Pharmaceuticals (now part of Procter ...
URL: https://prabook.com/web/david.kern/2539025

['Orajel' creator David Morris Kern dies at 103]
May 5, 2013 — Born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, Kern graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy and worked as a pharmacist before ...
URL: https://apnews.com/general-news-505f9e7c02c448978c7daea056011e86


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Morris Kern - Wikipedia] ---
David Morris Kern (August 4, 1909 – May 3, 2013) was an American pharmacist and businessman.  Kern developed and co-invented Orajel, a topical medication applied to relieve pain from toothaches and mouth sores.
Kern was born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy. Kern began his career as a pharmacist. He then became a salesperson for Norwich Warner Pharmaceuticals (now part of Procter & Gamble).
Kern, together with his brother and two business partners, acquired a pharmaceutical manufacturing facility. According to his family, Kern sought to create an oral medication to relieve tooth pain for teething babies soon after acquiring the manufacturing center. Together with the collaboration a chemistry professor, Kern created and developed Orajel to relieve toothaches. The over-the-counter gel was later used to alleviate mouth sores as well. In 1961, Kern sold the Orajel and the rest of his company to Del Laboratories.
He retired the pharmaceutical industry when he was 62 years old. He then focused on managing the financial affairs of his family. Kern and his wife moved to the Phoenix Metropolitan Area during the 1990s.
Kern died in a nursing facility in Paradise Valley, Arizona, on May 3, 2013, at the age of 103. His wife, Rose Ziedenweber Kern, whom he had been married to for sixty-five years, died in 2001.


--- [David Morris Kern Facts for Kids] ---
David Morris Kern facts for kids David Morris Kern (born August 4, 1909 – died May 3, 2013) was an American pharmacist and a smart businessman. He is best known for helping to create Orajel, a special medicine you put on your gums to stop pain from toothaches and mouth sores. Early Life and Career David Kern was born in Manhattan, New York, in 1909. He grew up in Brooklyn, another part of New York City. He went to the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy and became a pharmacist. This means he was trained to prepare and give out medicines. After working as a pharmacist, he became a salesperson. He worked for a company called Norwich Warner Pharmaceuticals. This company is now part of a much bigger company called Procter & Gamble. Inventing Orajel David Kern and his brother, along with two business partners, bought a factory that made medicines. David Kern had an idea to make a medicine for babies who were teething. Teething can be very painful for babies as their first teeth push through their gums. He worked with a chemistry professor to develop this new medicine. Together, they created and developed Orajel. It was a gel that people could buy without a prescription. Orajel helped to relieve toothaches. Later, people also used it to help with mouth sores. In 1961, David Kern sold Orajel and his company to another company called Del Laboratories. Later Life and Legacy David Kern retired from the medicine business when he was 62 years old. After retiring, he spent his time managing his family's money matters. In the 1990s, he and his wife moved to the Phoenix area in Arizona. David Kern lived a very long life. He passed away on May 3, 2013, in Paradise Valley, Arizona. He was 103 years old. His wife, Rose Ziedenweber Kern, had passed away in 2001. They had been married for 65 years.


--- [David Morris Kern - Alchetron, The Free Social Encyclopedia] ---
Name David Kern | Died 2013 | | David Morris Kern Top # 7 Facts David Morris Kern (1909 – May 3, 2013) was an American pharmacist and businessman. Kern developed and co-invented Orajel, a topical medication applied to relieve pain from toothaches and mouth sores. Kern was born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy. Kern began his career as a pharmacist. He then became a salesperson for Norwich Warner Pharmaceuticals (now part of Procter & Gamble). Kern, together with his brother and two business partners, acquired a pharmaceutical manufacturing facility. According to his family, Kern sought to create an oral medication to relieve tooth pain for teething babies soon after acquiring the manufacturing center. Together with the collaboration a chemistry professor, Kern created and developed Orajel to relieve toothaches. The over-the-counter gel was later used to alleviate mouth sores as well. In 1961, Kern sold the Orajel and the rest of his company to Del Laboratories. He retired the pharmaceutical industry when he was 62 years old. He then focused on managing the financial affairs of his family. Kern and his wife moved to the Phoenix Metropolitan Area during the 1990s. Kern died in a nursing facility in Paradise Valley, Arizona, on May 3, 2013, at the age of 103. His wife, Rose Ziedenweber Kern, whom he had been married to for sixty-five years, died in 2001.


--- [David Kern (1909 — March 3, 2013), American pharmacist | World ...] ---
Background Kern was born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, New New York History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Kern was born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, New New York He graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy. Kern developed and co-invented Orajel, a topical medication applied to relieve pain from toothaches and mouth sores. Kern began his career as a pharmacist. He then became a salesperson for Norwich Warner Pharmaceuticals (now part of Procter & Gamble). According to his family, Kern sought to create an oral medication to relieve tooth pain for teething babies soon after acquiring the manufacturing center. Together with the collaboration a chemistry professor, Kern created and developed Orajel to relieve toothaches. The over-the-counter gel was later used to alleviate mouth sores as well. In 1961, Kern sold the Orajel and the rest of his company to Delegate Laboratories. He retired the pharmaceutical industry when he was 62 years old. He then focused on managing the financial affairs of his family. Kern died in a nursing facility in Paradise Valley, Arizona, on May 3, 2013, at the age of 103.


--- ['Orajel' creator David Morris Kern dies at 103] ---
‘Orajel’ creator David Morris Kern dies at 103 PARADISE VALLEY, Ariz. (AP) — The creator of Orajel, a medicine aimed at fighting toothaches that was later also used for mouth sores, has died, family members said Sunday. David Morris Kern was 103. Allan Kern, his son, said his father died Friday at a group home in Paradise Valley, Ariz. Born in 1909 in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn, Kern graduated from the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy and worked as a pharmacist before becoming a salesman for Norwich and Warner Pharmaceuticals. After buying a pharmaceutical manufacturing facility with his brother and two partners, he created Orajel with the help of a chemistry professor. Kern would later tell family members that he developed Orajel because he sought to find relief for teething babies. “It was the No. 1 product for toothaches for years,” Allan Kern said. “He was really proud of it.” The elder Kern later sold the company to Del Laboratories in 1961, and moved to the Phoenix-area in 1990s with his wife, Rose Ziedenweber Kern. The couple was married for 65 years until her death in 2001. Kern retired from his pharmaceutical career as the age of 62 and later turned to managing family finances, Allan Kern said. Daughter-in-law Carol Kern said in retirement Kern bragged that he had great genes which allowed him to live past 100 years. “I said during a toast on his 100th birthday that he’d say his secret to a long life was having a martini every day and not eating green vegetables,” she said. “If you are optimistic, and feel young, you will always look and remain young,” Kern told The Arizona Republic in a 2009 interview. “Take advantage of every day.” Private services are planned Monday in New York.
