=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Researchers discover gilded mummy mask - HeritageDaily]
Jul 16, 2018 · Hussein added that the mask was found on the face of a mummy which had been placed in a wooden coffin, which was found in a badly damaged state. The coffin had once been plastered and painted with an image of the goddess Nut and still includes the name and titles of the mask’s owner.
URL: https://www.heritagedaily.com/2018/07/researchers-discover-gilded-mummy-mask/120943

[Rare Gilded Mask Discovered On Mummy Of Ancient Egyptian ...]
Jul 17, 2018 · Dr. Hussein revealed in a press release that the mask was found on the face of a mummy which had been placed in a wooden coffin, which was found in a badly damaged state.
URL: https://www.ancientpages.com/2018/07/17/rare-gilded-mask-discovered-on-mummy-of-ancient-egyptian-priest-serving-sky-goddess-mut/

[2500-Year-Old Gilded Mask With Gemstone-Inlaid Eyes Discovered ...]
Jul 26, 2018 — Hussein explained that the mask was found on the face of a mummy, which had been placed in a wooden coffin. The badly damaged coffin had ...
URL: https://www.clodiusco.com/blog/2500-year-old-gilded-mask-with-gemstone-inlaid-eyes-discovered-at-egyptian-burial-ground/

[More on mummies, embalming equipment discovered south of ...]
Jul 17, 2018 · Dr. Hussein pointed out that the middle wooden coffin, on top of the sarcophagus, is badly damaged, and the mummy inside it has a gilded mask that was found on top of the face of the mummy.
URL: https://www.archaeology.wiki/blog/2018/07/17/more-on-mummies-embalming-equipment-discovered-south-of-pyramid-of-unas/

[Mummy wearing gold-gilded face mask discovered at ancient ...]
Jul 16, 2018 · The mask was found on the face of a mummy hidden inside a badly damaged wooden coffin that has an image of a goddess called Mut on it. From the writing on the coffin that is still legible,...
URL: https://www.foxnews.com/science/mummy-wearing-gold-gilded-face-mask-discovered-at-ancient-egypt-burial-ground


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Researchers discover gilded mummy mask - HeritageDaily] ---
Researchers at the University of Tübingen have discovered a gilded mask on the mummy of a priest in Saqqara, Egypt. It is from the Saite-Persian period (664-404 BCE). The head of the German-Egyptian team, Dr. Ramadan Badry Hussein, reported on Saturday that the mask was found in an extensive tomb complex which Tübingen archaeologists have been investigating since 2016, using the latest methods. The preliminary microscopic examination carried out at the Egyptian Museum in Cairo indicates that the mask is made of gilded silver. The eyes are inlaid with calcite, obsidian, and black gemstone which may be onyx. “The finding of this mask could be called a sensation,” Hussein says. “Very few masks of precious metal have been preserved to the present day, because the tombs of most Ancient Egyptian dignitaries were looted in ancient times.” Hussein added that the mask was found on the face of a mummy which had been placed in a wooden coffin, which was found in a badly damaged state. The coffin had once been plastered and painted with an image of the goddess Nut and still includes the name and titles of the mask’s owner. He is the Second Priest of the goddess Mut and the Priest of the goddess Niut-shaes, a serpent form of the goddess Mut; he lived in the 26th dynasty. “Ancient Egyptian funeral masks of gold and silver are extraordinarily rare,” says Professor Christian Leitz, head of Egyptology at the University of Tübingen. “We only know of two comparable finds from private tombs – the most recent one in 1939.” Even in royal tombs archaeologists have found only very few face masks of precious metals, he adds. Most of these masks were taken by grave robbers long ago and probably melted down. The tomb complex where the Tübingen researchers have been working is made up of several shaft tombs, some of them more than thirty meters deep. Over the top of one of the main shafts, the archaeologists found the remains of a rectangular building made of mud brick and irregular limestone blocks; it appears to have been a mummification workshop. In it they found two large basins which they believed were used for the natron to dry the body and in the preparation of the linen bandages to wrap it. Pots found in an underground chamber included bowls and measuring cups inscribed with the names of oils and other substances used in mummification. The mummification workshop also has a large shaft in the middle, which was used as a communal burial place. It uniquely has several burial chambers, including a complex of burial chambers cut into the bedrock at a depth of 30m. Several burials were undisturbed. The archaeologists found not only mummies and sarcophagi; a large number of faience shawabti figurines were also found, along with alabaster vessels to hold the organs of the mummified person. Tübingen archaeologists are using state-of-the-art technology in their investigation of the Saqqara necropolis. In the effort to document the entire complex, the University of Tübingen’s eScience Center, headed by Dr. Matthias Lang, is compiling complete, high-resolution 3D images of both the location and the key objects found there. A combination of laser scanning and image-based 3D processing makes it possible to visualize and analyze the shape and layout of the interconnected parts of the complex. Header Image – The Saqqara mask of the second priest of Mut andPriest of Niut-shaes. Photo by University of Tübingen, Ramadan B. Hussein


--- [Rare Gilded Mask Discovered On Mummy Of Ancient Egyptian ...] ---
Rare Gilded Mask Discovered On Mummy Of Ancient Egyptian Priest Serving Sky Goddess Mut AncientPages.com - Archaeologists excavating in Saqqara, Egypt have discovered a gilded mask on a mummy of a priest. The find dating to the Saite-Persian period (664-404 BCE) has been labeled a sensation. Very few similar ancient masks are known to exist. The preliminary microscopic examination carried out at the Egyptian Museum in Cairo indicates that the mask is made of gilded silver. The eyes are inlaid with calcite, obsidian, and black gemstone which may be onyx. “The finding of this mask could be called a sensation.Very few masks of precious metal have been preserved to the present day, because the tombs of most Ancient Egyptian dignitaries were looted in ancient times,” the head of the German-Egyptian team, Dr. Ramadan Badry Hussein said. Left: The Saqqara mask of the second priest of Mut and Priest of Niut-shaes. Photo by University of Tübingen, Ramadan B. Hussein. Right: Nineteenth dynasty statue of Mut, part of a double statue, c. 1279–1213 BCE, Luxor Museum. Credit: Public Domain Dr. Hussein revealed in a press release that the mask was found on the face of a mummy which had been placed in a wooden coffin, which was found in a badly damaged state. The coffin had once been plastered and painted with an image of the goddess Nut and still includes the name and titles of the mask’s owner. He is the Second Priest of the goddess Mut and the Priest of the goddess Niut-shaes, a serpent form of the goddess Mut; he lived in the 26th dynasty. Learn about - Daily Life Of Priests And Priestesses In Ancient Egypt Ancient Egyptian funeral masks of gold and silver are extraordinarily rare,” says Professor Christian Leitz, head of Egyptology at the University of Tübingen. “We only know of two comparable finds from private tombs - the most recent one in 1939.” Even in royal tombs archaeologists have found only very few face masks of precious metals, he adds. Most of these masks were taken by grave robbers long ago and probably melted down. See also: Ptolemaic Granite Sarcophagus Found In Alexandria, Egypt Osiris Statuette Discovered During Restorations Of The King Djoser Step Pyramid In Saqqara, Egypt Four Canopic Jars Dated To The 26th Dynasty Unearthed At South Asasif Necropolis, Luxor The tomb complex where the Tübingen researchers have been working is made up of several shaft tombs, some of them more than thirty meters deep. Over the top of one of the main shafts, the archaeologists found the remains of a rectangular building made of mud brick and irregular limestone blocks; it appears to have been a mummification workshop. In it they found two large basins which they believed were used for the natron to dry the body and in the preparation of the linen bandages to wrap it. The Saqqara Mask of the Second Priest of Mut and Priest of Niut-shaes, details of eye inlay. Photo by University of Tübingen, Ramadan B. Hussein. Pots found in an underground chamber included bowls and measuring cups inscribed with the names of oils and other substances used in mummification. The mummification workshop also has a large shaft in the middle, which was used as a communal burial place. It uniquely has several burial chambers, including a complex of burial chambers cut into the bedrock at a depth of 30m. Several burials were undisturbed. The archaeologists found not only mummies and sarcophagi; a large number of faience shawabti figurines were also found, along with alabaster vessels to hold the organs of the mummified person. AncientPages.com


--- [2500-Year-Old Gilded Mask With Gemstone-Inlaid Eyes Discovered ...] ---
Jewelry Blog Rockford, IL 2,500-Year-Old Gilded Mask With Gemstone-Inlaid Eyes Discovered at Egyptian Burial Ground July 26, 2018 An Egyptian funeral mask crafted of gilded silver and dating back to 664-404 BCE is being called a "sensation" by archaeologists at Germany's University of Tübingen. Discovered deep within a necropolis in Saqqara, Egypt, the mask of an ancient priest has eyes inlaid with calcite, obsidian and a black gemstone, which is believed to be onyx. The thin layer of gold leaf that once adorned the entire mask has mostly worn away.“The finding of this mask could be called a sensation,” noted Dr. Ramadan Badry Hussein, the head of the German-Egyptian team. “Very few masks of precious metal have been preserved to the present day, because the tombs of most Ancient Egyptian dignitaries were looted in ancient times.” Hussein explained that the mask was found on the face of a mummy, which had been placed in a wooden coffin. The badly damaged coffin had once been plastered and painted with an image of the goddess Nut and still includes the name and titles of the mask’s priestly owner, who lived during the Saite-Persian period about 2,500 years ago. “Ancient Egyptian funeral masks of gold and silver are extraordinarily rare,” added Professor Christian Leitz, head of Egyptology at the University of Tübingen. “We only know of two comparable finds from private tombs — the most recent one in 1939.” The tomb was found amidst a complex of burial shafts at the Saqqara necropolis, some extending more than 100 feet deep. Tübingen archaeologists are using state-of-the-art, 3D imaging in their investigation of the site. In the effort to document the entire complex, the University of Tübingen’s eScience Center is compiling complete, high-resolution images of both the location and the key objects found there. A combination of laser scanning and image-based 3D processing makes it possible to visualize and analyze the shape and layout of the interconnected parts of the complex. Tübingen archaeologists have been investigating the site since 2016. Credits: Photos by the University of Tübingen, Ramadan B. Hussein. - Newer - Older About the Author With over 250 years of combined experience, our staff truly understands why you purchase jewelry, and what it means to you. Clodius & Co. is known as Rockford's custom jeweler and more. Why? Because we like to get acquainted with our customers while we help them select or create their jewelry. Other Recent Blog Entries Clodius & Co. 25th Anniversary Celebration A Love Story Realized: Travis Kelce Proposes to Taylor Swift With Vintage Diamond Your Forever Begins This Summer—Say Yes with Clodius & Co. Celebrate Every Kind of Dad – Watches & Handmade Gifts at Clodius & Co. Gift with Purchase – A Special Valentine’s Offer


--- [More on mummies, embalming equipment discovered south of ...] ---
In an international press conference at Saqqara necropolis, Minister of Antiquities Dr.Khaled El-Enany announces the discovery of a Mummification Workshop along with a communal burial place, uniquely has several burial chambers, dating to the Saite-Persian Period (664-404 BC) during excavation work carried out by an Egyptian-German mission from the Tübingen University South of king Unas Pyramid in Saqqara. The mission has also succeeded to uncover a Gilded Sliver Mummy Mask in one of the burial chambers of the main shaft attached to the Mummification Workshop, dating to the Saite-Persian Period (664-404 BC). The Mask belongs to a person who held the titles of ‘the Second Priest of Mut and the Priest of Niut-shaes’. Preliminary microscopic examination suggests that it is made of gilded silver, and the eyes are inlayed with a black gemstone (possibly onyx), calcite and obsidian. The wig was also inlayed with gemstones that were once embedded in color pastes. The mask measures 23 x 18.5 cm. A research and conservation project is currently being planned for the mask. Dr. Ramadan Badry Hussein, Director of Saqqara Saite Tombs Project and Professor at Tübingen University describes the discovery as “rare” and explains that the mummification workshop has a rectangular building constructed with mud brick and irregular limestone blocks. It has an entrance on the southwestern corner that leads into an open area with two large basins and a mud brick ramp between them. The two basins are surrounded with mud brick walls. It is believed that they were for the natron and the preparation of the linen bandages. He states that the Mummification Workshop includes also an embalmer’s cachette with a 13.00 m. deep shaft that ends with a rectangular subterranean chamber, where a large corpus of pottery was found. This pottery included vessels, bowls and measuring cups inscribed with names of oils and substances used in the mummification. The Mummification Workshop has also a large shaft (K 24) in the middle, which is used as a communal burial place. It measures 3.00 x 3.35 m x 30.00 m. Shaft K24 uniquely has several burial chambers, including a complex of burial chambers cut into the bedrock on a depth of 30.00 m. They are arranged on the sides of two hallways. The first hallway has an intact burial chamber on the west, where three decayed wooden coffins were found on top of the western end of a large limestone sarcophagus. A fourth mummy is found to the north of that sarcophagus. A large number of faience ushabti figurines were also found along the northern side of the sarcophagus. Dr. Hussein pointed out that the middle wooden coffin, on top of the sarcophagus, is badly damaged, and the mummy inside it has a gilded mask that was found on top of the face of the mummy. The wooden coffin was once plastered and painted with an image of the goddess Nut, the mother of the god of the dead, Osiris. The decoration also includes the titles of the owner of the mask along with his name. He is the Second Priest of the goddess Mut and the Priest of the goddess Niut-shaes, a serpent form of the goddess Mut. The theophoric name of the owner of the mask includes the name of the goddess Neith, the patron goddess of Dynasty 26. Pieces of the painted plaster carrying the rest of his name are still missing, and the mission is collecting more of them in order to read the full name of the deceased. The Mission of the University of Tuebingen to Saqqara has started the implementation of state of the art technology in the documentation and recording of monuments, particularly the laser scanning and photogrammetry techniques. The Mission’s digital documentation activities included creation of 3D photogrammatic models and laser scans of the burial chambers of Padinist, Director of the Storage Department of the Royal Palace, Psamtek, Chief physician and Commander of the Libyan Mercenaries, and Amentayefnakht, Commander of the Recruits. The Mission also conducted a conservation project of the polychrome reliefs and inscriptions of these burial chambers.


--- [Mummy wearing gold-gilded face mask discovered at ancient ...] ---
A silver face mask gilded with gold, a mummification workshop, mummies and sarcophagi have all been discovered at a tomb complex in Saqqara, Egypt, an Egyptian-German team announced this morning (July 14). The complex contains several burial shafts dug into the ground, some of them extending more than 100 feet (30 meters) deep, the team said in a statement. At least some of the finds date back around 2,500 years, including the silver face mask, which dates to sometime between 664 B.C. and 404 B.C., the statement said. The eyes of the face mask contain calcite, obsidian and a black gemstone. [Photos: Ancient Egyptian General's Tomb Discovered in Saqqara] "The finding of this mask could be called a sensation," Ramadan Badry Hussein, head of the Egyptian-German team, from the University of Tübingen in Germany, said in the statement. "Very few masks of precious metal have been preserved to the present day, because the tombs of most ancient Egyptian dignitaries were looted in ancient times." The mask was found on the face of a mummy hidden inside a badly damaged wooden coffin that has an image of a goddess called Mut on it. From the writing on the coffin that is still legible, researchers can tell that the man was a priest who served Mut. Mummification workshop Archaeologists also found the remains of what they think is a mummification workshop, a place where people were mummified before burial, in the tomb complex. It contains bowls and measuring cups that have the names of oils and other substances used for mummificationwritten on them. Inside the workshop, they also discovered two large basins that were likely used to dry mummies with natron and prepare bandages that would be used to wrap them, the statement said. The workshop is in the remains of a building made of mudbrick and limestone. This building is above a large shaft that leads down to several burial chambers holding mummies, sarcophagi, alabaster vessels (used to hold the organs of the deceased) and shabti figurines — the Egyptians believed these figures could act as servants for the deceased in the afterlife. Excavation and mapping of the tomb complex are ongoing. The research is sponsored by the German Research Foundation. Many of the team's German researchers are from the University of Tübingen. Originally published on Live Science.
