=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[El Cielo's Miami Receives First-Ever Michelin Star in Florida]
El Cielo Miami and Chef Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia, affectionately known as 'Juanma,' are delighted to announce that Elcielo's Miami location was awarded last night the first-ever Michelin Star in Florida, in great company with 14 other exceptional establishments. Just last year, Chef Juanma's other Elcielo location in Washington DC made history by obtaining the first star for a ...
URL: https://www.miamilivingmagazine.com/post/elcielo-s-miami-receives-first-ever-michelin-star-in-florida

[The Michelin-Starred Elcielo Opens at the SLS South Beach in Miami]
Aug 11, 2023 — ... Elcielo Miami in 2015. It received a Michelin star in Florida's first-ever Michelin Guide in 2022 and retained its ranking this year. The ...
URL: https://robbreport.com/food-drink/dining/elcielo-sls-south-beach-miami-1234880909/

[Chef Juanma of Elcielo in Brickell receives first-ever coveted Michelin ...]
Just last year, Chef Juanma's other Elcielo location in Washington DC made history by obtaining the first star for a Colombian restaurant abroad and was just repeatedly awarded for its second year in a row a Michelin Star last month for that same location.
URL: https://southbeachtopchefs.com/chef-juanma-of-elcielo-in-brickell-receives-first-ever-coveted-michelin-star-in-florida/

[Colombian restaurant Elcielo opens at Miami Beach hotel | Miami Herald]
Jul 25, 2023 · Elcielo, the Colombian restaurant in Miami that was awarded a Michelin star in 2022, has branched out — into the space that was once home to The Bazaar by José Andrés at the SLS South Beach hotel.
URL: https://www.miamiherald.com/miami-com/restaurants/article277632883.html

[Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia - Wikipedia]
He founded the El Cielo restaurant chain in 2006. [1] In 2015, Juan opened the original Elcielo Miami which received Michelin star in Florida's first-ever Michelin Guide in 2022.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juan_Manuel_Barrientos_Valencia


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [El Cielo's Miami Receives First-Ever Michelin Star in Florida] ---
El Cielo's Miami Receives First-Ever Michelin Star in Florida - Sep 22, 2022 - 4 min read Updated: Aug 5, 2024 El Cielo Miami and Chef Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia, affectionately known as ‘Juanma,’ are delighted to announce that Elcielo's Miami location was awarded last night the first-ever Michelin Star in Florida, in great company with 14 other exceptional establishments. Just last year, Chef Juanma's other Elcielo location in Washington DC made history by obtaining the first star for a Colombian restaurant abroad and was just repeatedly awarded for its second year in a row a Michelin Star last month for that same location. Combining a variety of sensory experiences with one-of-a-kind flavors and textures, Chef Juanma, has revolutionized traditional Colombian cuisine by combining his avant-garde cooking techniques with his passion for neurosciences. Having trained under world-renowned chefs including Spain’s Juan Mari Arzak, Juanma combines classical training with modern techniques, resulting in a dining experience that is in a league of its own in Miami. On Thursday, June 9, Michelin Guide, the world’s most important and prestigious French rating guide founded in 1900 (nearly 122 years ago), for the first time ever announced its selection for awards in Florida, specifically focusing on the Miami, Orlando and Tampa region, making it a recognized global culinary hotspot. "This is a huge deal and honor not only for our restaurant group, but the city of Miami, as Michelin typically only reviews dining rooms in cities like Paris, New York, and Singapore, which are renowned for their refined culinary scene; but now Miami is finally getting recognized as an important food scene as the city continues to flourish with international tourists and residents alike," says Chef Juanma. "I think South Florida's burgeoning culinary movement with visionary chefs and restaurateurs alike, is a true reflection of the elevated direction this city is going in from tech to finance, designer retail shops, restaurants and more. We are no longer considered just a place to party, but being taken more seriously as a desirable destination to live, work, dine and play,” he adds. In 2015 when Chef Juanma decided to open his first-ever U.S. location of Elcielo in Miami, he knew this city was special and a true blend of all Hispanic and Latin cultures who’d appreciate his innovative twist on Colombian cuisine, as well as international tourists and Americans alike. “Our creative team has worked so hard to execute some of the most distinct sensory experiences and dishes using neurosciences, and we are thrilled to be recognized this year and awarded our first-ever Michelin Star for this location and in the state of Florida," Chef Juanma adds. Located at 31 SE 5th Street, Elcielo overlooks the Miami River at the confluence of downtown Miami and Brickell, creating a one-of-a-kind dining atmosphere. A stunning open kitchen greets diners as they enter Elcielo (translated from Spanish as ‘Heaven’); offering a chance to see an international team creating Barrientos’ unique vision. Passing through to the main dining room, a fully stocked wine cellar complements the illuminated bar, from which signature cocktails are created to accompany each menu. Elcielo’s menu changes every season with innovative new dishes that are a tribute to Colombian cuisine. Chef Juanma and the restaurant’s expert hospitality team strive to create a distinct and carefully crafted journey that taps into all five of your senses. The food and ambiance will transport you to the beautiful beaches of Cartagena and the mysterious corners of the Amazon jungle. THE EXPERIENCE, a 21-course artful menu boasts surprising sensory moments throughout the course of the night. It is priced at $197 per person and is served in the restaurant’s great hall section. The bar also features many of its signature and innovative Colombian cocktails. Designed by Chef Juanma and his family, the intimate 45-seat dining room combines elements that represent the Colombian soul – the same essence present in the Elcielo restaurants of Washington DC, Bogotá and Medellín – along with tropical elements of coastal Miami. Bathed in a variety of textures, the dining room features handmade furniture crafted from imported Colombian wood and leather, as well as decor that recalls the various travels through which Barrientos has honed his craft. According to The Miami Herald here, Miami emerged with 10 one-star restaurants and one with a two-star rating. Reviewers, called inspectors, eat at restaurants around the world and go to great lengths to remain anonymous. The inspectors judge the restaurants on five main criteria, he said, regardless of where they are: quality of the product; each dish’s “harmony of flavor”; mastery of cooking techniques; personality of the chef; and consistency between visits (if one inspector has a great meal and another doesn’t, that’s taken into consideration). No three-star restaurants were named in Florida. Only 13 U.S. restaurants have been awarded three stars: six in California, five in New York and one each in Washington, D.C., and Chicago. Visit Florida, the state tourism and marketing agency, and local tourism agencies in Miami, Orlando, and Tampa are paying the Michelin Guide an estimated $1.5 million over the next three years to rate Florida’s restaurants. The restaurants will be listed in a printed guide that Michelin sells and puts online. William Hereford Gwendal Poullennec, international director of the Michelin Guides, said he expects to see more starred restaurants in Miami in the years to come. The guide is “open-minded,” he said, and has no quota or a set number of stars that must be given (or withheld). “We’re always working,” he said. “We have inspectors constantly in the field. It’s a great beginning. Miami will be recognized as a global culinary hot spot.”


--- [The Michelin-Starred Elcielo Opens at the SLS South Beach in Miami] ---
Elcielo has already received a Michelin star for its Miami location (as well as it’s Washington, D.C., outpost). And now the Colombian restaurant is trying its hand at a second restaurant in the 305. The chef Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia, known as “Juanma,” has just opened an Elcielo at the SLS South Beach, as the spot aims to expand its international reach. Unlike the other locations, this one will offer an à la carte menu, as an alternative to the $258 menu served at the first Miami outpost. Some classic dishes will still be available, alongside those unique to the SLS dining room. “We are thrilled to bring our second Elcielo Miami location to the beautiful SLS South Beach—an iconic destination recognized for its exceptional dining offerings and dynamic atmosphere,” Juanma said in a statement. “Known for its opulent style and world-class guest experience, this property provides the perfect backdrop for Elcielo’s expansion.” Among the offerings will be decadent truffle buñuelos (a type of Latin American donut) with torched foie gras and crab empanadas with Caribbean spices. Guava BBQ pork ribs come served with smoked vegetable rice and pickled radishes; ceviche gets a fruity kick from passionfruit milk; and roasted quail is stuffed with mushrooms and guanciale. The Tree of Life, found on the other location’s tasting menu, is a made-for-social-media combination of cassava, cheese, and basil. And while there may be no “Chocotherapy” on the menu, there is the traditional Colombian meringue-based dessert merengón, made with the spirit Aguardiente. After first opening in Colombia (with locations in Medellín and Bogotá), Juanma opened the original Elcielo Miami in 2015. It received a Michelin star in Florida’s first-ever Michelin Guide in 2022 and retained its ranking this year. The Washington, D.C., location, which opened in 2020, garnered a Michelin star in 2021, making it the first Colombian restaurant abroad to receive that honor, according to the restaurant. “We are delighted to welcome Elcielo as our esteemed partner in delivering an extraordinary dining experience to our guests,” Simon Sorpresi, the area vice president for SLS South Beach, said in a statement. “We are excited to embark on this culinary journey together and create unforgettable moments for our discerning guests.” That’s the goal even without the chocolate hand bath. Click here to see all the images of Elcielo. Culinary Masters 2023 Don’t miss the food event of the year. Register for Robb Report’s Culinary Masters now. Or, for more information on Robb Report experiences, visit RR1.


--- [Chef Juanma of Elcielo in Brickell receives first-ever coveted Michelin ...] ---
Elcielo Miami and Chef Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia, just announced that Elcielo’s Miami location was awarded the first-ever Michelin Star in Florida, in great company with 14 other exceptional establishments. Just last year, Chef Juanma’s other Elcielo location in Washington DC made history by obtaining the first star for a Colombian restaurant abroad and was just repeatedly awarded for its second year in a row a Michelin Star last month for that same location. Combining a variety of sensory experiences with one-of-a-kind flavors and textures, Chef Juanma, has revolutionized traditional Colombian cuisine by combining his avant-garde cooking techniques with his passion for neurosciences. Having trained under world-renowned chefs including Spain’s Juan Mari Arzak, Juanma combines classical training with modern techniques, resulting in a dining experience that is in a league of its own in Miami. This is Chef Juanma’s second Michelin Star this year On Thursday, June 9, Michelin Guide, the world’s most important and prestigious French rating guide founded in 1900 (nearly 122 years ago), for the first time ever announced its selection for awards in Florida, specifically focusing on the Miami, Orlando, and Tampa region, making it a recognized global culinary hotspot. “This is a huge deal and honor not only for our restaurant group, but the city of Miami, as Michelin typically only reviews dining rooms in cities like Paris, New York, and Singapore, which are renowned for their refined culinary scene; but now Miami is finally getting recognized as an important food scene as the city continues to flourish with international tourists and residents alike,” says Chef Juanma. “I think South Florida’s burgeoning culinary movement with visionary chefs and restaurateurs alike, is a true reflection of the elevated direction this city is going in from tech to finance, designer retail shops, restaurants, and more. We are no longer considered just a place to party, but being taken more seriously as a desirable destination to live, work, dine and play,” he adds. Located at 31 SE 5th Street, Elcielo overlooks the Miami River at the confluence of downtown Miami and Brickell, creating a one-of-a-kind dining atmosphere. A stunning open kitchen greets diners as they enter Elcielo (translated from Spanish as ‘Heaven’); offering a chance to see an international team creating Barrientos’ unique vision. Elcielo’s menu changes every season with innovative new dishes that are a tribute to Colombian cuisine. THE EXPERIENCE, a 21-course artful menu boasts surprising sensory moments throughout the course of the night. It is priced at $197 per person and is served in the restaurant’s great hall section. The bar also features many of its signature and innovative Colombian cocktails. Elcielo Miami is located at 31 SE 5th St, in Brickell. For reservations, please book via OpenTable, or visit www.elcielorestaurant.com. Miami Design District Claims Title of Neighborhood with Most Michelin Stars


--- [Colombian restaurant Elcielo opens at Miami Beach hotel | Miami Herald] ---
This Colombian restaurant in Miami earned a Michelin star. Now it’s open in Miami Beach Elcielo, the Colombian restaurant in Miami that was awarded a Michelin star in 2022, has branched out — into the space that was once home to The Bazaar by José Andrés at the SLS South Beach hotel. From Colombian chef Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia, Elcielo is now open in the former space of The Bazaar, which announced its closing last fall. In addition to its Brickell location, the brand also has restaurants in Medellin and Bogota as well as a Michelin-star winning location in Washington, D.C., which was the first Michelin star ever awarded to a Colombian restaurant. For now, the space retains its Bazaar-era glamour, including its centerpiece chandelier. A redesign is scheduled for next summer. The new South Beach menu is unique in one significant way: It represents the first time Elcielo is offering a la carte ordering. The existing restaurants offer a tasting menu chosen by the chef. Known internationally as “Chef Juanma,” Barrientos said that the menu will include Elcielo favorites like the corn arepa and caviar and ribs in guava and tamarind. The yucca gnocchi with truffle and sweet plantain will be featured, too. Other signature dishes will be on the menu, too, such as truffle buñuelos with torched foie gras; crispy crab empanadas with Caribbean spices; roasted quail; and lulo ceviche (lulo is an exotic fruit with a citrusy flavor). The famous “Tree of Life” — made with cassava, cheese and basil and presented with eclectic showmanship — will also make an appearance on the menu. “We are thrilled to bring our second Elcielo Miami location to the beautiful SLS South Beach, an iconic destination recognized for its exceptional dining offerings and dynamic atmosphere,” said Chef Juanma in a statement. Simon Sorpresi, area vice president for SLS South Beach, said he hopes the restaurant creates “unforgettable moments” for its guests. “Culinary excellence and discovery are at the heart of the SLS South Beach experience,” he said. “We’re delighted to welcome Elcielo as our partner in delivering an extraordinary dining experience.” Elcielo Where: SLS Hotel South Beach, 1701 Collins Ave., Miami Beach Reservations: OpenTable


--- [Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia - Wikipedia] ---
Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia | | |---|---| | Nationality | Colombian | | Occupation | businessman | | Known for | founder of El Cielo restaurant chain | Juan Manuel Barrientos Valencia is a Colombian chef and businessman.[citation needed] Early life and education [edit]Juan Manuel was born in Medellin, Colombia. He studied at Colegiatura Colombiana in Medellin and Mariano Moreno in Buenos Aires.[citation needed] He is also recognized as "Juanma.” He founded the El Cielo restaurant chain in 2006.[1] In 2015, Juan opened the original Elcielo Miami which received Michelin star in Florida's first-ever Michelin Guide in 2022.[2] Awards and recognition [edit]He has been named one of the 50 best chefs of Latin America,[3] and was awarded the Revelation Chef Award by Madrid Fusion.[4][5] He is the recipient of Michelin Award.[citation needed] Advocate of Peace [edit]One of his projects is translated as "In El Cielo, we are cooking up peace in Colombia" ("En El Cielo, estamos cocinando la paz de Colombia").[6] References [edit]- ^ "Elcielo: Creatividad y neurociencias | IESE Publishing". Archived from the original on 2016-04-16. Retrieved 2015-08-04. - ^ Latham, Tori (2023-08-11). "Michelin-Starred Elcielo Is Opening a New Edition of Its Hit Colombian Restaurant in Miami". Robb Report. Retrieved 2023-09-03. - ^ "El Cielo | Latin America's 50 Best Restaurants". Archived from the original on 2015-07-23. Retrieved 2015-08-04. - ^ "Chef Juan Manuel Barrientos: Cocina colombiana que activa emociones y sentimientos". 28 August 2013. - ^ "GALERÍA: Las delicias de 'El cielo', en Miami". Retrieved 2023-07-06. - ^ "El Cielo". Archived from the original on 2015-08-03. Retrieved 2015-08-04.
