=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Saudi to codify Sharia 'for clarity' - The National News]
Jul 20, 2010 · RIYADH // Saudi Arabia's top religious body has given the green light to codify the largely unwritten Sharia regulations governing the kingdom's criminal, civil and family courts in order to bring more clarity and uniformity to judicial rulings. The codification project is part of a major overhaul ...
URL: https://www.thenationalnews.com/world/mena/saudi-to-codify-sharia-for-clarity-1.518063

[Contract law in Saudi Arabia]
In 2010, the top religious body in Saudi Arabia gave the green light for codification of Sharia law. Nonetheless, it has been commented that such legal ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contract_law_in_Saudi_Arabia

[Legal system of Saudi Arabia - Wikipedia]
The legal system of Saudi Arabia is based on Sharia, Islamic law derived from the Quran and the Sunnah (the traditions) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The sources of Sharia also include Islamic scholarly consensus developed after Muhammad's death.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legal_system_of_Saudi_Arabia

[Saudi Arabia implements wide ranging legislative and judicial ...]
It remains to be seen whether Saudi Arabia will look to the existing codified law regimes in the region, such as those in the UAE, Kuwait and Jordan, which take into account Sharia principles but also reflect the influence of the civil law regime in Egypt and the broader European civil code system.
URL: https://www.nortonrosefulbright.com/en/knowledge/publications/8b9a1182/saudi-arabia-implements-wide-ranging-legislative-and-judicial-reforms

[Saudi Arabia announces judicial reforms - by Ahmed Al Omran]
Feb 10, 2021 · The community has for years relied on government-backed Shia courts with limited jurisdiction to personal status issues. A Saudi official told Reuters that introducing the new laws means the kingdom is “definitely moving towards codifying the entire law” to meet the needs of the modern world while adhering to Islamic Sharia principles.
URL: https://www.riyadhbureau.com/p/saudi-codification-ftw


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Saudi to codify Sharia 'for clarity' - The National News] ---
RIYADH // Saudi Arabia's top religious body has given the green light to codify the largely unwritten Sharia regulations governing the kingdom's criminal, civil and family courts in order to bring more clarity and uniformity to judicial rulings. The codification project is part of a major overhaul of the country's legal system initiated three years ago by King Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz. The overhaul is moving slowly, observers say, because of the complexity of the reforms, lack of qualified judicial personnel and resistance from the country's ultraconservative religious elite, who see their long-time control of Saudi courts threatened by proposed changes. "The traditional establishment is by nature against these reforms," said the Riyadh lawyer Ibrahim A al Modaimeegh. "So it's going to take time to implement them." Legal reforms are especially needed in the commercial area in order to attract foreign investment that Saudi Arabia is seeking to assist its economic diversification and create jobs necessary for a huge youth bulge that is entering the labour market. The kingdom's accessions to the World Trade Organisation and the G20 club of influential economies also mean that its legal system should meet international guidelines for commercial transactions. Indeed, Saudi Arabia's 2005 entry to the WTO was an impetus for King Abdullah's renewed effort to reform the legal system, something that his predecessors had tried twice before only to be stymied by the religious establishment, for whom maintaining a strict, conservative interpretation of Islamic law is essential to Muslim identity. The need for reform is apparent in regular newspaper accounts about long delays in courts because of a severe shortage of judges, as well the lack of due process in criminal cases. Many courts are not computerised and dates for future hearings are entered into a written ledger, said Ronald E Pump, an American lawyer who practises in the kingdom. In both criminal and civil cases, he noted, there often is no live testimony, adding, "if you can't make your case on documents, you're dead". Saudi judges do not discriminate against foreign businesses, but they lack enforcement powers. As a result, even when foreigners obtain favourable rulings in commercial disputes, they often cannot collect what is owed them. "It's easy to win your case, but the problem is enforcement," Mr Pump said. Criminal courts are a frequent targets of criticism from Saudi lawyers and human rights activists. The absence of a penal code with clear definitions of crimes and appropriate sentences gives judges great latitude and it is not uncommon for a judge to increase a sentence if a defendant exercises his right to appeal. Defendants are not always given lawyers and trials are generally not open to the public. Last year, 330 suspects detained on terrorism-related charges were tried in secret in a new court attached to Riyadh General Court. Most of them were sentenced to prison terms of varying lengths and one received the death sentence, which the government announced after the trials were over. Saudi rights activists and lawyers in touch with families of detainees said the trials amounted to summary judgments in which the defendants did not have appropriate opportunities to challenge evidence presented by prosecutors. "It's shameful to have this kind of trial [because] there are a lot of mistakes," said Abdelaziz M al Gasim, a former judge who now works as a lawyer. He said that one defendant received a 10-year sentence for giving a lift to people whom he did not know were al Qa'eda members. "There are no lawyers, no family, no audience, no journalists, so it is broken trials," said Mr al Gasim. King Abdullah took the first step towards legal reform with a 2007 law that would restructure the courts. That law split the old Supreme Judicial Council into two bodies, one for adjudicating appeals and one for administering the judiciary. It also expanded the number of appeals courts from two to 13. The king allocated nearly US$2 billion (Dh7.3bn) to implement the restructuring and to expand training for judges and other court personnel. Some of that money is now being used to construct new appeals courts and to send some judges abroad for legal seminars. While some steps have been taken to improve legal cadre training, there is still a lack of personnel knowledgeable about modern court administration and procedures, as well as insufficient numbers of lawyers. These shortages are seen as obstacles to reform. "There is no proper legal education to produce qualified people," said Mr Modaimeegh, the Riyadh lawyer. Implementing the structural changes has been rocky. Last year, the king removed the head of the Supreme Judicial Council, Sheikh Saleh al Luheidan, because the ultraconservative cleric was obstructing implementation of the proposed reorganisation, Saudi lawyers said. And tough bargaining continues between the justice ministry and the newly reconstituted Supreme Judicial Council because of "overlaps" in defining their new responsibilities, Mr al Gasim said. The council says it needs its own budget and administrative control to guarantee the independence of judges, while the ministry wants to direct the judiciary's finances and administration, Mr al Gasim added. In addition, an older generation of judges is refusing to accept as equals younger judges because they have not had same intensive Sharia training, although they have years of experience working in arbitration committees sprinkled throughout government ministries, according to two legal sources. Under the restructuring, these committees are to become specialised courts within the national system. The proposed codification, announced by Mohammed al Eissa, the Saudi justice minister in May, is likely to be another contentious undertaking. Approved in March by the Council of Senior Ulema, it will reportedly cover penal, civil and family laws, and take years to complete. Saudi judges are said to be weary of any code that would impinge their independence to apply their own legal reasoning, or ijtihad. However, some Saudis say that creating more transparency and predictability in the legal process will not weaken the rule of Sharia in the legal system. Codification "is a must?.to give clarity and [reduce] ambiguity" in judicial application of laws, said the Riyadh-based Saudi lawyer Mohammad al Dhabaan. There is no reason, he added, why the new code cannot "be 100 per cent in compliance with Sharia". @Email:cmurphy@thenational.ae


--- [Contract law in Saudi Arabia] ---
Contract law in Saudi Arabia is governed by the conservative Wahhabi movement of Sharia law, which adopts a fundamentalist and literal interpretation of the Quran. Any contract that is not specifically prohibited under Sharia law is legally binding, with no discrimination against foreigners or non-Muslims.
The Wahhabis are the most liberal among the Sunnis with respect to the freedom of persons to contract. However, the degree of freedom of contract is governed by the prohibitions in the Quran, and two distinctive doctrines in Sharia law: riba (usury) and gharar (speculation).
Unlike other Sharia law jurisdictions, Sharia law remains uncodified in Saudi Arabia due to the strong literalist view of Wahhabism. There is also no established case reporting in the courts. This has led to much uncertainty and variation in court decisions. Despite being the world's 11th easiest economy to do business in, Saudi Arabia ranks 140th out of 183 economies in terms of enforcement of contracts. (see below: Appendix)
In 2007, King Abdullah initiated legal reforms to modernise the courts and codify Sharia law in Saudi Arabia. The ulama, the religious body, approved a codification of Sharia law in 2010, and a sourcebook of legal principles and precedents was published on January 3, 2018. (see below: Legal Reform)




--- [Legal system of Saudi Arabia - Wikipedia] ---
The legal system of Saudi Arabia is based on Sharia, Islamic law derived from the Quran and the Sunnah (the traditions) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The sources of Sharia also include Islamic scholarly consensus developed after Muhammad's death. Its interpretation by judges in Saudi Arabia is influenced by the medieval texts of the literalist Hanbali school of Fiqh. Uniquely in the Muslim world, Sharia has been adopted by Saudi Arabia in an uncodified form. This, and the lack of judicial precedent, has resulted in considerable uncertainty in the scope and content of the country's laws. The government therefore announced its intention to codify Sharia in 2010, and, in 2018, a sourcebook of legal principles and precedents was published by the Saudi government. Sharia has also been supplemented by regulations issued by royal decree covering modern issues such as intellectual property and corporate law. Nevertheless, Sharia remains the primary source of law, especially in areas such as criminal, family, commercial and contract law, and the Qur'an and the Sunnah are declared to be the country's constitution. In the areas of land and energy law the extensive proprietorial rights of the Saudi state (in effect, the Saudi royal family) constitute a significant feature.
The current Saudi court system was created by King Abdul Aziz, who founded the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932, and was introduced to the country in stages between 1927 and 1960. It comprises general and summary Sharia courts, with some administrative tribunals to deal with disputes on specific modern regulations. Trials in Saudi Arabia are bench trials. Courts in Saudi Arabia observe few formalities and the country's first criminal procedure code, issued in 2001, has been largely ignored. King Abdullah, in 2007, introduced a number of significant judicial reforms, although they are yet to be fully implemented.
Criminal law punishments in Saudi Arabia include public beheading, stoning, amputation and lashing. Serious criminal offences include not only internationally recognized crimes such as murder, rape, theft and robbery, but also apostasy, adultery, witchcraft and sorcery. In addition to the regular police force, Saudi Arabia has a secret police, the Mabahith, and "religious police", the Mutawa. The latter enforces Islamic social and moral norms, but their powers have greatly been restricted over the last few years. Western-based human rights organizations, such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, have criticized the activities of both the Mabahith and the Mutawa, as well as a number of other aspects of human rights in Saudi Arabia. These include the number of executions, the range of offences which are subject to the death penalty, the lack of safeguards for the accused in the criminal justice system, the treatment of homosexuals, the use of torture, the lack of religious freedom, and the highly disadvantaged position of women. The Albert Shanker Institute and Freedom House have also reported that "Saudi Arabia's practices diverge from the concept of the rule of law."


--- [Saudi Arabia implements wide ranging legislative and judicial ...] ---
Introduction The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is implementing radical reform in a number of important legal areas. On 8 February 2021, Saudi Arabia announced four new laws will be promulgated during 2021: a Personal Status Law, a Civil Transactions Law, a Penal Code for Discretionary Sanctions and a Law of Evidence. This announcement indicates that Saudi Arabia is moving towards the codification of laws, which represents a significant departure from the existing legislative framework in place in Saudi Arabia. We set out below the context in which this radical step has been announced and its implications. The Saudi legal system is principally a Sharia law system for both criminal and civil matters, with supplemental regulation by way of royal decree having been passed in recent years on specific areas of law. Sharia is not codified but consists of Islamic principles emanating from the Quran and other sources, such as the sayings of Prophet Mohammed. Amongst the four major Islamic schools of jurisprudence, the Hanbali school is most often applied in Saudi Arabia to guide the interpretation of Shariah principles. Decisions under the Sharia regime are at the discretion of the judge, which has historically led to uncertainty and inconsistency of decisions being rendered on the same issues. Furthermore, Saudi courts tended not to publish case reports or to allow access to decisions. That in turn led to further uncertainty. The recent reforms that have been announced are in line with Saudi Arabia’s vision to develop its judicial system as part of Vision 2030, which aims amongst other things to create an attractive environment for investors and to enhance confidence in the Saudi economy. An overview of recent reforms in Saudi Arabia In recent years, the Saudi legislative and judicial systems have undergone several reforms. In 2017, new commercial courts were set up, with jurisdiction for specific commercial disputes, including bankruptcy cases. New rules for these courts were announced in 2018 setting out stringent timelines within which cases must be heard and dealt with. Whilst, historically, case decisions were not published or available, in 2018 the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Judicial Council published a book of legal principles and court judgments. The aim of this move was to provide judges and legal representatives with insight into how Sharia law had historically been applied to actual cases and for the published judgments to act as guidance. Saudi Arabia is one of the few countries in the Middle East region with specialist courts for specific types of disputes. To name a few, Saudi Arabia has specialist courts/ committees for (i) insurance, (ii) securities, (iii) banking, (iv) customs, and (v) tax disputes. The country also has a streamlined court process in place for the enforcement of judgments and certain types of security, such as promissory notes. Moreover, the Saudi Courts in 2018 have started using electronic summons or notifications (such as email and SMS messages) and consider them as legal notifications. In another reform, in December 2017, a new class action regime was implemented in Saudi Arabia for securities claims. This was a first of its kind in the Middle East region and was designed to streamline and expedite the process and improve the efficiency in the courts handling a large volume of related shareholder claims. Since the class action region was implemented, we have seen two class action lawsuits being approved by the specialist securities disputes committee. The first class action related to alleged violations during the IPO of Mohammad Al-Mojil Group and was concluded in favour of the claimants in 2020. The second related to alleged misrepresentation within the 2013 and 2014 financial statements at the Saudi telecoms company, Mobily. A class action was approved in 2020 and is currently ongoing. In both instances, claimants were invited to file a request to join the class action, through an online system, if they met certain threshold requirements. The courts in Saudi have increasingly moved to remote/ online systems, particularly following the Covid-19 pandemic. New matters have to be commenced through an online e-filing system and case progress is tracked by legal representatives through online platforms. Hearings are now routinely conducted through the use of video technology, which has enabled lawyers and courts to manage multiple daily hearings efficiently. Against this backdrop, the announcement on 9 February 2021 that four new laws will be introduced, indicating that Saudi Arabia is moving towards a codification of laws aimed at increasing consistency and certainty of outcome, is a significant reform. It remains to be seen whether Saudi Arabia will look to the existing codified law regimes in the region, such as those in the UAE, Kuwait and Jordan, which take into account Sharia principles but also reflect the influence of the civil law regime in Egypt and the broader European civil code system. Conclusion In summary, Saudi Arabia has in the last few years implemented radical and wide-ranging reforms to increase efficiency and improve predictability within its legislative and judicial systems. It has often been the first in the region to implement certain steps, such as specialist courts for certain types of disputes and a class action regime for securities disputes. The latest measures announced are another step towards meeting Saudi’s Vision 2030 goals and are of interest to anyone conducting business in Saudi Arabia. We are tracking this development and will provide further details as they become available. Please contact any of the authors if you would like any further information about the subject matter of this article.


--- [Saudi Arabia announces judicial reforms - by Ahmed Al Omran] ---
Saudi Arabia announces judicial reforms Move paves way for codified law From the Saudi Press Agency: HRH Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman announced that the Kingdom has taken serious steps towards developing its legislative environment during the past few years, including adopting new laws and reforming existing ones. These laws are meant to preserve rights, bolster the principles of justice, enforce t…
