=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Short Walk To Freedom (episode) | Airwolf Wiki | Fandom]
Short Walk to Freedom was the 33rd episode of Airwolf, the 22nd episode of Season 2. It first aired on 4/13/1985. This is one of the few episodes where the full Airwolf team appear. String, Dominic, Caitlin, Archangel and Marella all play significant roles in the plot. Caitlin accompanies four students on a trip to explore Maya temples with archaeologist Ozzie Hathaway. But their guide Comargo ...
URL: https://airwolf.fandom.com/wiki/Short_Walk_To_Freedom_(episode)

["Airwolf" Short Walk to Freedom (TV Episode 1985) - IMDb]
Short Walk to Freedom: Directed by Virgil W. Vogel. With Jan-Michael Vincent, Alex Cord, Jean Bruce Scott, Ernest Borgnine. Caitlyn and a group of kids are captured by a guerrilla leader while they're on a trip to South America to visit ancient ruins.
URL: https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0507165/

[AIRWOLF Episode Guide | Season 2]
Mar 23, 2014 · AIRWOLF Episode Guide - Season 2 Season 2 of 'Airwolf' created quite a departure from the dark and broody Season 1 of the TV show, with the CBS network, specifically from CBS Preseident, Harvey Shepherd ordering the so-called "domestication" of the show and introducing a new regular cast member in Jean Bruce Scott and her ex-Texas Highway Patrol Pilot character "Caitlin O'Shannessy". A ...
URL: https://airwolfthemes.com/airwolf-season-2-episode-guide.html

[List of Airwolf episodes - Wikipedia]
^ The plot of this episode is a re-working of the second season Magnum, P.I. episode "Italian Ice". ^ This episode marks the first time that Caitlin is confirmed of the existence of Airwolf, and the first time in which she flies in it.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Airwolf_episodes

[Crime Fighting Heroes of Television : Over 10000 Facts from 151 Shows, ...]
... Name Wayne Szlinski (Captain Astounding) see Honey, I Shrunk the Kids Appendix C: Crime Fighting Machines by Show Airwolf (helicopter) see Airwolf AutoCar ...
URL: https://dokumen.pub/crime-fighting-heroes-of-television-over-10000-facts-from-151-shows-1949-2001-1nbsped-9780786484454-9780786413959.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Short Walk To Freedom (episode) | Airwolf Wiki | Fandom] ---
| Overview | Credits | Transcript | Short Walk to Freedom was the 33rd episode of Airwolf, the 22nd episode of Season 2. It first aired on 4/13/1985. This is one of the few episodes where the full Airwolf team appear. String, Dominic, Caitlin, Archangel and Marella all play significant roles in the plot. Plot synopsis[] Caitlin accompanies four students on a trip to explore Maya temples with archaeologist Ozzie Hathaway. But their guide Comargo betrays them and delivers them into the hands of bandits led by Colonel Alzar. Archangel suspects things are slightly more complicated. Alzar is probably acting so boldly because he has the backing of a "big brother" somewhere. Archangel instructs String and Dominic to launch a rescue mission with Airwolf, not that they need any encouragement[1] Episode summary[] (spoiler alert - click on expand to read) Story locations[] - Quinzumel - Lake Toneopah Aircraft seen[] - Airwolf - Beechcraft B200 Super King Air - N84B, the same aircraft as used in The Hunted (episode). - F-84F Thunderstreak - mimicking Cuban MiGs. F-84Fs are also used to depict MiGs in other episodes. The footage all comes from the 1958 Korean War movie The Hunters. Firearms seen[] - Ruger AC556 - various bandit guards and Jonathan - M16 - various bandit guards - Valmet M71S - various bandit guards. Hawke takes one off a guard. - AK-47 - various bandit guards. - Browning M2 - mounted on a jeep and a half track - RPG-7 rocket launcher - M1 Bazooka rocket launcher - M1911A1 - Dominic, Colonel Alzar and Chema Comargo use this as a personal sidearm Research notes[] - The closing credits show a scene where Caitlin, Hathaway and the four students arrive at Santini Air in a bus and Caitlin introduces them to String and Dominic. This scene would have provided the back story, how the students got to go on the trip and why Caitlin accompanied them. The scene was probably cut during editing. - In The Hunted (episode), Hawke tells Caitlin that she's the one with the multi-engine rating, and he said it in such a way as to imply that he and Dominic don't have it. Yet in this episode we see him taking over the King Air and flying it back--and this would have needed a multi-engine rating. Still it wouldn't take long for an experienced pilot like Hawke to qualify for such a rating. Guest stars/Recurring cast[] - Deborah Pratt as Marella - John Aniston as Colonel Arturo Alzar - Jorge Cervera, Jr. as Chema Comargo - Jill Whitlow as Kay Freestone - Brian Farrell as Ozzie Hathaway - Edward Mehler as Jonathan Hughes - Robert Chestnut as Cookie Danza - Phillip Paley as Ernie Wolfe - Ismael Carlo as Sergeant - Ricardo Lopez as Miguel


--- ["Airwolf" Short Walk to Freedom (TV Episode 1985) - IMDb] ---
Short Walk to Freedom - Episode aired Apr 13, 1985 - TV-PG - 1h Caitlyn and a group of kids are captured by a guerrilla leader while they're on a trip to South America to visit ancient ruins.Caitlyn and a group of kids are captured by a guerrilla leader while they're on a trip to South America to visit ancient ruins.Caitlyn and a group of kids are captured by a guerrilla leader while they're on a trip to South America to visit ancient ruins.


--- [AIRWOLF Episode Guide | Season 2] ---
AIRWOLF Episode Guide - Season 2 Season 2 of 'Airwolf' created quite a departure from the dark and broody Season 1 of the TV show, with the CBS network, specifically from CBS Preseident, Harvey Shepherd ordering the so-called "domestication" of the show and introducing a new regular cast member in Jean Bruce Scott and her ex-Texas Highway Patrol Pilot character "Caitlin O'Shannessy". A combination of factors including disappointing inaugural season 1 ratings (compared to CBS' high investment in the show with Universal Studios) and they wanted it to be a "Blue Thunder" killer after all, and kill the latter it did with "Blue Thunder" not returning after its disastrous watered down TV treatment on ABC - compared to the critically acclaimed Roy Scheider original 1982 movie) with its half season only, and CBS' goal to expand its demographic audience away from teenage boys. With Season 2 of Airwolf, out went the dark stories of espionage and international intrigue, the "Red Menace" of the USSR was pretty much forgotten, the Firm was kicked into the background a lot more with less Archangel requirement, and a nicer "Stringfellow Hawke" lead (to the utter chagrin of Bellisario, who never liked, nor wanted Jan-Michael Vincent for the lead in the first place as JMV was chosen by the Network) was woven into weekly stories. The ratings increased, whilst, with a couple of well-written and exceptional episodes in line with Season 1 quality or better, many with impressive, feature-quality action set pieces, overall the previously sharp, clever script quality (most of the Season 1 writers had left for other projects, with exception to the late Tom S. Cook, who would serve as producer during half of this 2nd season) was now lower overall with certain aspects noticeably watered down, with the TV series now acting as a more mainstream "family" action-adventure show, again to widen the demographic watching the show and thus make it more interesting for potential Advertisers to return revenue on its cost. Whilst the Season 2 Airwolf episodes still had their iconic moments, both Hawke's humorless, reclusive broodiness, and the whole eerie mysteriousness surrounding The Firm, important factors in Don Bellisario's original concept and vision - were by now reduced. Jan-Michael Vincent's troubled personal life including well-publicised battles with drink and drugs, and frequently public spats with his then wife - were increasingly causing huge production delays, frustrations, crew stress and problems behind the scenes - it was not a happy set right from the start of the season - increasing the cost of producing the show. But the lowest point and darkest day of the 2nd Season was the death of young stuntman, Reid Rondell during filming of the episode "NATURAL BORN" in mid-January 1985, when a black Huey helicopter being used in filming crashed and burned on a hillside near Newhall on Friday, killing the stuntman and injuring the pilot, Scott Maher. The crash occurred without warning as the Bell 205 Huey helicopter was making its third pass around a valley in Pico Canyon, flying within 200 feet of the ground, as part of a chase scene involving another Huey helicopter (the white one) as it approached a small grassy knoll and he dropped down to skim the surface. One of the helicopter's skids caught the ground on the grassy knoll causing the crash. The 22-year-old stuntman Reid Rondell was unconscious and burned to death in the fire, the lone passenger in the helicopter. Maher was pulled out by Aerial Co-ordinator, the late David Jones and taken to Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital where he was treated for a concussion and numerous bruises. The determination by the authorities was that it was pilot error. |


--- [List of Airwolf episodes - Wikipedia] ---
Airwolf, an action-espionage television series created by Donald P. Bellisario, premiered on January 22, 1984 on CBS in the United States and ended on August 8, 1987. The show spans four seasons and 80 episodes in total. The original pilot is two hours long (split into two episodes for syndication), while the episodes that followed are approximately 45 minutes long. An enhanced version of the first episode was released as a motion picture in several countries as well as on home video. The show aired for three seasons on CBS; it was later picked up by USA Network for a final season, made on a much smaller budget.
Three seasons of Airwolf were released on DVD in United States between 2005 and 2007, respectively. The fourth season was released in 2011. The original series was canceled due to declining ratings; the resurrected fourth season was not renewed due to poor viewing figures as well as being generally poorly received.
Airwolf follows Stringfellow Hawke, a pilot who has to retrieve the helicopter named Airwolf from the hands of its creator Dr. Moffet with the help from his friends, while going through a series of adventures. The original series starred Jan-Michael Vincent as Hawke, Ernest Borgnine as Dominic Santini, Alex Cord as Archangel and Jean Bruce Scott as Caitlin O’Shannessy. The cast of season four consisted of Barry Van Dyke as St. John Hawke, Michele Scarabelli as Jo Santini, Geraint Wyn Davies as Mike Rivers, and Anthony Sherwood as Jason Locke.


--- [Crime Fighting Heroes of Television : Over 10000 Facts from 151 Shows, ...] ---
No content
