=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Zero Bridge - Wikipedia]
The name "Zero Bridge" is explained in two ways. One interpretation suggests that, as it is located upstream of Amira Kadal, considered the “first bridge” in Srinagar, it was informally called “Zero” as a precursor. [4] Another explanation cites a local story of a deaf Kashmiri contractor named “Zorr” (meaning "deaf" in Kashmiri), whose name may have evolved into "Zero" over time. [2]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero_Bridge

[Bridges of Srinagar | JustJu - The Kashmir Network]
Sultan Zain-ul-Abidin thus has the honour of having two bridges named after him- the ' Zaina ' and ' Budshah ' Kadals. Budshah Kadal A popular anecdote relates that the Zero Bridge was originally nicknamed ' Zaer ' Bridge after it's contactor who happened to be hard of hearing.
URL: https://kashmirnetwork.com/justju/?page_id=180

[Zero Bridge - Submission Detail]
The Zero Bridge is an old wooden arch bridge located in the city of Srinagar in the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It crosses the Jhelum river in a roughly North-South direction connecting Sonwar in the north to Rajbagh in the South. Originally constructed in the late 1950s under the then prime minister Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, the bridge was closed for vehicular traffic in the ...
URL: https://www.theislamicheritage.com/detail/Zero-Bridge

[Zero Bridge Explained]
The Zero Bridge is a wooden arch bridge located in the city of Srinagar in the Indian union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. It crosses the Jhelum river in a roughly North - South direction connecting Sonwar in the north to Rajbagh in the South. Originally constructed in the late 1950s under the then chief minister Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad, the bridge was closed for vehicular traffic in the late ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Zero_Bridge/

[Zero Bridge, Srinagar]
Jun 30, 2022 — So, the bridge was originally called 'Zorr bridge'. With time, the name went from being 'zorr' to 'zero'. The Zero Bridge from a distance ...
URL: https://banjaranfoodie.com/2022/06/30/zero-bridge-srinagar/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Zero Bridge - Wikipedia] ---
Zero Bridge (Urdu pronunciation: [ziːɾoː bɾɪd͡ʒ] ; Kashmiri pronunciation: [zərʲ kəd̪ɨl]) is a wooden arch pedestrian bridge in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It spans the Jhelum River, connecting the Sonwar area on the north bank with Rajbagh on the south.


--- [Bridges of Srinagar | JustJu - The Kashmir Network] ---
The first bridge across the Jehlum was Aali Kadal, built by Sultan Ali Shah in 1415 AD. Six more bridges were built by later rulers, and by the nineteenth century Srinagar came to be known as the 'City of the Seven Bridges.' 1415 AD/Aali Kadal/Sultan Ali Shah 1427 AD/Zaina Kadal/Sultan Zain ul Abdin 1500 AD/Fateh Kadal/Sultan Fateh Shah 1573 AD/Habba Kadal/Sultan Habib Shah 1666 AD/Nawa Kadal/Noor ud din Khan Bamzai 1671 AD/Safa Kadal/Saif ud din Khan 1774 AD/Amira Kadal/Amir ud din Khan Jawan Sher 'The view from any of the old city's bridges is wholly and unmistakably Kashmiri. Old brick buildings line the banks. The distinctive pagoda-like roof of a mosque or a shrine enlivens the horizon, and in the muddy water of the River Jhelum, a straggling row of doongas flanks the edges. These boats, with their shingled roofs, are the forerunners of Srinagar’s houseboat. A particular community lives in them. Formerly this community was associated with ferrying people, livestock and food grains along the river. The past still lingers in their lifestyles even if their occupation has changed. Occasionally one may catch sight of a doonga making its stately progress down the river as the owner shifts residence. Doongas are sparsely furnished – virtually no furniture is seen except for the kitchen, which gleams with copper utensils of every description that line the shelves from floor to ceiling.' Two bridges were constructed during the rule of Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed – Budshah Kadal and Zero Bridge. The former was built in 1957 across the river Jhelum to connect the Maulana Azad Road to the Civil Secretariat and was named after Zain-ul-Abidin (AD 1420-70), popularly known as ‘Budshah’, the great king of ancient Kashmir. Sultan Zain-ul-Abidin thus has the honour of having two bridges named after him- the 'Zaina' and 'Budshah' Kadals. Budshah Kadal A popular anecdote relates that the Zero Bridge was originally nicknamed 'Zaer' Bridge after it's contactor who happened to be hard of hearing. It is totally in character that Bakshi Sahib would rename it to 'Zero' bridge as he disliked negativity in names (The renaming of Sonawari, Mahmudpura and other places with unfavourable names are testimony to this fact.) Zero Bridge Zero Bridge was slated to be dismantled but fortunately some bright spark had an epiphany and the powers-that-be were convinced to restore it to its original splendour. It was reconstructed and re-dedicated as a heritage walkway in 2016 with deodar pavilions on the deck and an adjacent food court in the shape of traditional Kashmiri houseboat. It is fascinating to compare recent photographs of the restoration of Zero Bridge to those of bridge rebuilding after floods in the 1880's. 1n the 1970's the Noor Bagh Bridge was built over the Jehlum near Qamarwari. It was one of the earliest concrete bridges and it is still popularly known as the 'Cement Bridge'. In fact most of the old wooden bridges have been replaced by modern concrete ones. These are undoubtedly more functional yet appear soulless when compared to the aesthetics of the old rickety wooden structures. A couple of old bridges like Habba Kadal and Zaina Kadal are still used as pedestrian walkways while the rest have been dismantled. In the 1990's the Abdullah Bridge between the Zero and the Amira Kadal was constructed. Currently eleven bridges span the Jehlum between Sonwar and Qamarwari. Abdullah Bridge Amira Kadal Habba Kadal Fateh Kadal Two pedestrian bridges have also been constructed over the Jehlum at Sonwar and Lal Mandi. The latter bridge near the SPS Museum is the first suspension bridge across the Jehlum. Numerous smaller bridges intersect the network of waterways that flow through Srinagar city. A plan to build a new bridge between the post office lane and Rajbagh has run into what I feel is needless controversy. Reams have been written on the aesthetics of the Bund, the shape and orientation of the new bridge, the ill-effects(?) on a nearby girls high school. If the traffic patterns and structural requirements have been properly worked out, it can ease the chronic traffic congestion on both sides of the Jehlum. Wags are already calling this new bridge the 'Tedha Bridge' and I hope that the name does not stick because, like my father, I do not like discordant names. I just hope that it is not an incomprehensibly humped structure like the Amira Kadal Bridge (Shonthoo's Folly, I read somewhere) where driving behind an impossibly loaded 'redha' or handcart is a nightmare. If I may be allowed a suggestion, it could be named 'Albion Bridge' after Sir Albion Banerji, the Prime Minister of Kashmir who resigned in 1929 to protest against the injustice being meted out to the citizens of Kashmir by the sectarian and autocratic Dogra rulers. You can use stone and mortar to build walls that divide people, or bridges that unite them!


--- [Zero Bridge - Submission Detail] ---
The Zero Bridge is still the first bridge downstream of the Jhelum while entering the Srinagar city and the next upstream crossing is located near Pantha Chowk in the city outskirts. At present, the old wooden structure of the bridge is being replaced by a new one, preserving the original architecture and the bridge would continue to be a pedestrian crossing and a heritage site.The vehicular traffic is currently handled by the Abdullah Bridge, located roughly 200 metres downstream Officially it is said to have been named Zero Bridge since traditionally the Amira Kadal bridge was regarded as the first bridge on the Jhelum as it entered Srinagar and the Zero bridge preceded this 'first' bridge.


--- [Zero Bridge Explained] ---
No content


--- [Zero Bridge, Srinagar] ---
On a recent trip to Srinagar, Kashmir, like most people, I spent my time driving around Srinagar city visiting the usual tourist spots – the Pari Mahal, the Chashmeshahi, the Nishat Garden, the Shalimar Garden, the Badam Wari, etc. The next day I drove up to Pahalgam – the valley of the shepherds, and from there on to Chandanwari – the last drive-able spot on the Amarnath pilgrimage, the pictursque Aru Valley – a hotspot for movie shoots, and Betaab Valley – where the very famous iconic movie – Betaab starring Amrita Singh and Sunny Deol, the debut movie for both, was shot. But like I always do on every trip, I needed some time to explore the city in my way, on foot, just wandering around without any particular aim. The only aim is to soak in the city, experience what the city is all about. To me, walking around is the best way to experience the city, something that cannot, in my opinion, be accomplished while driving around or taking a public transport like a bus or a cab or a subway, which will conveniently take you from point A to point B, but miss out on everything in between. So, while walking around the city, I walked over to the old city area of Srinagar, where I walked over to one of the most renowned landmarks of the city – the Zero Bridge. You would have seen it in movies, you might have heard about it, but I assure you, walking on the bridge yourself, is a whole other experience. What is the Zero Bridge? The Zero Bridge is an old wooden arch bridge in Srinagar, the capital of Kashmir. It stands over the Jhelum river in the north-south direction connecting the Sonwar area of Srinagar city in the north to the Rajbagh area in the south. The original Zero bridge was constructed in the 1950s under the the then “prime minister of Jammu & Kashmir” – Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad. In the late 1980s, the bridge was shut down for vehicular traffic as the wooden structure began weakening. Zero bridge is only about two kilometers from the city center of Srinagar – Lal Chowk, a place that very often comes up in our news and media, not always for the brightest reasons, but as everything in Srinagar, it does have its own charm. The Zero Bridge is located very close to the Church Lane that houses the prime minister’s private office, state circuit house, and the official residences of many other ministers. Why is the Zero Bridge called the Zero Bridge? There are multiple stories around why this bridge came to be called the Zero Bridge. But before I tell you the different stories I have heard, let me tell you about the historic bridges of Srinagar. The Historic Bridges of Srinagar Originally, Srinagar had seven wooden bridges standing across the Jhelum river. In Kashmiri language, bridges are called ‘Kadal’. So, the name of the bridge is suffixed with ‘kadal’. These seven historic wooden bridges of Srinagar are: - Amira kadal – originally built in 1773 - Habba kadal – originally built in 1550 - Fateh kadal – originally built in 1499 - Zaina kadal – originally built in 1426 - Aali kadal – originally built in 1417 - Nawa kadal – originally built in 1666 - Safa kadal – originally built in 1670 So, you can see that these historic bridges are centuries old. Sadly, habba, fateh, zaina, aali, nawa, and safa got washed away in the second half of the 1800s. Coming down the timeline, new bridges got built in Srinagar – - Zero bridge – built in the 1950s - Abdullah bridge – built in the 1990s - Lal Mandi foot bridge – built in 2005 - Budshah bridge – built in 1950, also called the Alamgir bridge - New Habba kadal – built in 2001 Coming back to the story of the Zero bridge. The Amira kadal was regarded as the ‘first’ bridge in Srinagar out of the original seven bridges. Now, the more official version of why Zero bridge is called Zero bridge is that the Zero bridge preceded the Amira bridge. Amira bridge, as I just mentioned, was regarded as the ‘first’ bridge, and ‘zero’ precedes ‘one’, so this new bridge was came to be called ‘Zero bridge’. Another story of why the Zero bridge is called Zero bridge is that this particular bridge was constructed by a local contractor who was apparently deaf. In Kashmiri, the word for deaf is ‘zorr’. So, the bridge was originally called ‘Zorr bridge’. With time, the name went from being ‘zorr’ to ‘zero’. Status of the Zero Bridge Some years back, the wooden planks of the Zero Bridge began collapsing and the entire bridge was dismantled for repair. It had already been closed to vehicular traffic at that point and continues to remain so even today. Paramilitary bunkers have been built on both sides of the zero bridge. The current Zero Bridge is a spectacular marvel made of the wood from Deodar and Walnut trees, local to Kashmir and known for being highly durable in the river conditions where the bridge stands on the Jhelum. Zero Bridge is considered to be a valuable part of the local heritage of Srinagar, which is why when the bridge was rebuilt, it was rebuilt as a wooden bridge and not replaced with a cement and mortar bridge which otherwise would have been a lot more durable. The view from the Zero Bridge is amazing, there’s maple trees around, the Jhelum flowing below is serene there is almost always a gentle cold breeze blowing. the night view from the bridge and of the Zero bridge is simply mind-blowing. To me, Zero Bridge signifies convergence, connecting two very different parts of a beautiful city, bridged together by the wood that is iconic for Kashmir. This convergence, to me, is the beauty of Kashmir – the coming together of some of the most beautiful landscapes nature has created with some great food, and just peace. Ok, I tend to get carried away when talking Kashmir, so let me get back to Zero bridge. What to do at Zero Bridge? Ideally, the first thing most people will tell you is to take pictures of such an iconic beautiful bridge. However, when have I joined the bandwagon of what everyone does? To be fair, I did take pictures, a lot of them, but that is not my number one recommendation of what to do at the Zero Bridge. My first recommendation is this – There is a small shop near the Zero Bridge called Khulad Chai. They serve their chai in a kulhad, the Kashmiri way. I would say, get a cup of steaming hot Kashmiri Kahwa from the shop. Then walk over on to the Zero Bridge, and sip your Kahwa on the bridge, feel the breeze on your face, through your hair, listen to the Jhelum river streaming by, the beautiful leaves of the Maple trees around swaying to the tune of the breeze, and just for a few moments, soak up in the snow capped mountains on the horizon, let the Kahwa warm your hands, your body, and your heart. And then, you can go on to take as many pictures as you like. Kashmir truly is heaven on Earth, and if you haven’t visited it, get up and do it as soon as you can. That’s my story of the Zero Bridge. What do you think? Drop me a comment below or find me on Instagram – @banjaranfoodie
