=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Omar Abdullah inaugurates The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa, Gulmarg]
Omar Abdullah, Chief Minister, Jammu & Kashmir, formally inaugurated Gulmarg's first luxury resort, The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa. Located at an elevation of 8,825 ft in the PirPanjal range of the Himalayas, The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa, Gulmarg, is spread over seven acres in a pristine pine valley. This international class, 85-key resort, clad in timber and stone, offers ...
URL: https://www.traveltrendstoday.in/omar-abdullah-inaugurates-the-khyber-himalayan-resort-spa-gulmarg

[The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa Opens in Gulmarg]
Dec 20, 2012 · GULMARG: The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa, Gulmarg s first luxury resort was formally inaugurated on Thursday by the Chief Minister Omar Abdullah. The opening of this much-awaited luxury resort ...
URL: https://kashmirobserver.net/2012/12/20/the-khyber-himalayan-resort-spa-opens-in-gulmarg/

[Khyber’s Rs 120 Crore Wonder Is Formally Open - Kashmir Life]
Outside view of the Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa in Gulmarg. Photo By:Bilal Bahadur An excited Chief Minister who spent a night in Kashmir's newest five star hotel, the Khyber Himalayan Resort and Spa, at Gulmarg formally threw it open Thursday noon. Omar Abdullah said the impressive property is the landmark in Kashmir's winter wonderland and will raise the bar for the overall hospitality ...
URL: https://kashmirlife.net/khybers-rs-120-crore-wonder-is-formally-open-14247/

[The Khyber Himalayan Resort Spa Gulmarg PPT | PPTX - SlideShare]
The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa is a luxury resort located in Gulmarg, Kashmir at an elevation of 8,825 feet. It opened in December 2012 and was the first high-end resort in Gulmarg. The resort has 80 rooms, cottages, and a presidential suite with stunning views of the mountains. It offers fine dining, a spa, indoor and outdoor activities, and has received many awards and accolades for its ...
URL: https://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/the-khyber-himalayan-resort-spa-gulmarg-ppt/63484218

[About the Khyber | Best 5 star luxury resort in gulmarg]
This Journey began in December 2012, when we proudly became the first Luxury Ski-Resort in Kashmir & India. The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa is spread over 7- ...
URL: https://www.khyberhotels.com/about


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Omar Abdullah inaugurates The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa, Gulmarg] ---
Omar Abdullah inaugurates The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa, Gulmarg Omar Abdullah, Chief Minister, Jammu & Kashmir, formally inaugurated Gulmarg’s first luxury resort, The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa. Located at an elevation of 8,825 ft in the PirPanjal range of the Himalayas, The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa, Gulmarg, is spread over seven acres in a pristine pine valley. This international class, 85-key resort, clad in timber and stone, offers breathtaking views of snow capped Affarwat peaks. The resort is an easy walk from the Gulmarg Gondola, the highest ski lift in the world. It takes over 600 visitors and skiers per day to Kongdoori Mountain on the shoulder of Mount Affarwat, the highest ski point in the Himalayas at 13,780 feet. “The Khyber will be the first resort in Gulmarg to offer comforts and facilities that a discerning international traveller seeks. We have attended to every detail to make this resort truly unique”, said UmarTramboo, MD, Pinnacle Resorts, promoters of The Khyber. “Guests at the resort will experience luxury on a par with international standards and personalised service that hasn’t been seen in Gulmarg,” he added. Caption: Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah inaugurates The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa, Gulmarg


--- [The Khyber, Himalayan Resort & Spa Opens in Gulmarg] ---
No content


--- [Khyber’s Rs 120 Crore Wonder Is Formally Open - Kashmir Life] ---
No content


--- [The Khyber Himalayan Resort Spa Gulmarg PPT | PPTX - SlideShare] ---
History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa is a luxury resort located in Gulmarg, Kashmir at an elevation of 8,825 feet. It opened in December 2012 and was the first high-end resort in Gulmarg. The resort has 80 rooms, cottages, and a presidential suite with stunning views of the mountains. It offers fine dining, a spa, indoor and outdoor activities, and has received many awards and accolades for its facilities and service.


--- [About the Khyber | Best 5 star luxury resort in gulmarg] ---
This Journey began in December 2012, when we proudly became the first Luxury Ski-Resort in Kashmir & India. The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa is spread over 7- acres in a pristine pine valley. Located at a beauteous elevation of 8825 ft, right in the heart of Pir Panjal Range in the Magnificent Himalayas, The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa is the only Luxury Ski-Resort in India offering a wholesome experience suitable for guests of every age and needless to say, the-breath-taking view of the Majestic Himalayas! The Khyber is designed tastefully to reflect the amalgamation of Swiss Chalet style Architecture and the ever- mesmerizing interiors are designed with traditional materials that exhibit fine Kashmiri art. Namdas of felted wool, silk carpets from local looms, furnishings embellished with crewel embroidery, carved walnut paneling, teak- wood floors, and paper-mâché accents make you soothingly absorb the divine spirit of Kashmir Ahhhhhh. The Resort offers 85-keys, 4 Restaurant offering spreads of International Cuisine to Authentic Kashmiri Cuisines, Spa By French brand L'occitane and banqueting space of over 10,000 Sqft Indoor & Outdoors amid splendid view of snow-capped Affarwat peaks and it is this undying love, that drives our guests to return to The Khyber over and over again! Owing to the unmatched service and hospitality, The Khyber has become a Favorite luxury vacation destination in Kashmir among many guests. Whether it is about indulging in some thrilling activities in the snow in the beautiful winters of Gulmarg (which ranks as one of Asia’s five best ski destinations as well as the world’s best ski runs ranked 16th in the 100 CNN). The Resort has earned The Title of Luxury Boutique Resort by CNT 8 times in 10 Years and also Ranked as Best Ski-Resort in India by numerous publications including T+L India. The Khyber’s all season luxury experience welcomes you with the same joy, making your stay in any time of the year, a memorable experience and the one to which, you can’t help coming back to.
