=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nivolumab - NCI - National Cancer Institute]
Nivolumab works by binding to and blocking the protein PD-1 on the surface of some cancer cells, which keeps cancer cells from suppressing the immune system. This allows the immune system to attack the cancer cells. Nivolumab is a type of immunotherapy drug called an immune checkpoint inhibitor.
URL: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/drugs/nivolumab

[Nivolumab - Wikipedia]
Nivolumab, sold under the brand name Opdivo, is an anti-cancer medication in the class of immune checkpoint inhibitors. It selectively binds and blocks the programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor on T cells, thereby facilitating their activation. It is used to treat certain types of cancer [2] including melanoma, lung cancer, malignant pleural mesothelioma, renal cell carcinoma, Hodgkin lymphoma ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nivolumab

[OPDIVO® (nivolumab)]
OPDIVO® (nivolumab) is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with cancer of the lining of the urinary tract (including the bladder, ureters, or renal ...
URL: https://www.opdivo.com/

[Nivolumab: Monoclonal Antibody Metastatic Melanoma]
Feb 28, 2024 · Nivolumab is a monoclonal antibody for managing metastatic melanoma and other malignancies. The drug targets the PD1 receptor, an immune checkpoint, thus embodying a potent form of immunotherapy. This action obstructs the signal that impedes the activation of T-cells against cancerous cells. This activity discusses the drug's indications, mechanism of action, dosing and administration, and ...
URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK567801/

[Nivolumab (Opdivo®) - Macmillan Cancer Support]
Nivolumab is also called Opdivo ®. It is a type of immunotherapy drug called a checkpoint inhibitor. Nivolumab can be given on its own or in combination with other drugs to treat many different types of cancer. It is best to read this information with our general information about immunotherapy drugs and the type of cancer you have.
URL: https://www.macmillan.org.uk/cancer-information-and-support/treatments-and-drugs/nivolumab


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nivolumab - NCI - National Cancer Institute] ---
Nivolumab Nivolumab works by binding to and blocking the protein PD-1 on the surface of some cancer cells, which keeps cancer cells from suppressing the immune system. This allows the immune system to attack the cancer cells. Nivolumab is a type of immunotherapy drug called an immune checkpoint inhibitor. FDA label information for this drug is available at DailyMed. Use in Cancer Nivolumab is approved to be used alone or with other drugs to treat: - classic Hodgkin lymphoma in adults whose cancer has come back or has gotten worse after either: - an autologous stem cell transplant and treatment with brentuximab vedotin¹; or - at least three other types of treatment including an autologous stem cell transplant¹ - colorectal cancer in adults and children aged 12 years and older whose cancer is microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR). Nivolumab is used: - alone in patients whose cancer has spread to other parts of the body and got worse after treatment with a fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan hydrochloride - with ipilimumab in patients whose cancer has spread to other parts of the body or cannot be removed by surgery - esophageal cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. Nivolumab is used in adults: - for esophageal cancer or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma that has been treated with a combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy and then surgery to completely remove the cancer, but cancer cells were found in the removed tumor or lymph nodes - for squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus that cannot be removed by surgery or has spread or come back after treatment with a fluoropyrimidine and platinum-based chemotherapy - for squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus that cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other parts of the body. It is given with either ipilimumab or a fluoropyrimidine and platinum-based chemotherapy as the first treatment. - gastric (stomach) cancer, gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, or esophageal cancer that has spread. Nivolumab is used with a fluoropyrimidine and platinum-based chemotherapy.¹ - hepatocellular carcinoma (a type of liver cancer) that cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other parts of the body. Nivolumab is used with ipilimumab in adults as the first treatment or after treatment with sorafenib. - malignant pleural mesothelioma. Nivolumab is used with ipilimumab as the first treatment in adults whose cancer cannot be removed by surgery. - melanoma. Nivolumab is used: - alone or with ipilimumab in adults and children aged 12 years and older whose cancer cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other parts of the body - as adjuvant therapy in adults and children aged 12 years and older with one of the following stages of melanoma that has been completely removed by surgery: stage IIB, IIC, IIIA, IIIB, IIIC, IIID, or IV melanoma - non-small cell lung cancer in adults. Nivolumab is used: - with platinum-based chemotherapy before surgery for early-stage cancer - with platinum-based chemotherapy before surgery and then alone after surgery for cancer that does not have an abnormal EGFR or ALK gene - as the first treatment with ipilimumab for cancer that has spread to other parts of the body and has the PD-L1 protein but does not have an abnormal EGFR or ALK gene - as the first treatment with ipilimumab and platinum-based chemotherapy for cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or came back but does not have an abnormal EGFR or ALK gene - for cancer that has spread to other parts of the body and has gotten worse during or after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Patients whose cancer has an abnormal EGFR or ALK gene should receive nivolumab only if their cancer got worse after treatment with FDA-approved therapy for these gene mutations. - renal cell carcinoma (a type of kidney cancer) that is advanced in adults. Nivolumab is used: - who have already received angiogenesis inhibitor therapy - with cabozantinib-s-malate as the first treatment - with ipilimumab as the first treatment in some patients - squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck that has spread to other parts of the body or has come back and got worse during or after treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy - urothelial carcinoma (a type of cancer in the bladder or urinary tract) in adults. Nivolumab is used: - with cisplatin and gemcitabine as the first treatment for cancer that cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other parts of the body - after surgery to remove cancer that has a high risk of coming back - for cancer that has spread and was treated with platinum-based chemotherapy, but it did not work, is no longer working, or the cancer has gotten worse ¹This use is approved under FDA’s Accelerated Approval Program. As a condition of approval, a confirmatory trial(s) must show that nivolumab provides a clinical benefit in these patients. Nivolumab is given by infusion. It is available in a different form, combined with hyaluronidase, that is given subcutaneously. For more information, see the Drug Information Summary for Nivolumab and Hyaluronidase-nvhy. Nivolumab is also available as a combination formulation with a drug called relatlimab. For more information, see the Drug Information Summary for Nivolumab and Relatlimab-rmbw. Nivolumab is also being studied in the treatment of other types of cancer. More About Nivolumab Definition from the NCI Drug Dictionary - Detailed scientific definition and other names for this drug. MedlinePlus Information on Nivolumab - A lay language summary of important information about this drug that may include the following: - warnings about this drug, - what this drug is used for and how it is used, - what you should tell your doctor before using this drug, - what you should know about this drug before using it, - other drugs that may interact with this drug, and - possible side effects. Drugs are often studied to find out if they can help treat or prevent conditions other than the ones they are approved for. This patient information sheet applies only to approved uses of the drug. However, much of the information may also apply to unapproved uses that are being studied. Research Results and Related Resources FDA Approval Likely to Change Initial Treatment for Some People with Advanced Colorectal Cancer Nivolumab Appears to Boost Cure Rate in Advanced Hodgkin Lymphoma Trial Establishes Preferred Treatment for Some People with Esophageal Cancer What Comes after NCI-MATCH? NCI’s New Precision Medicine Cancer Trials A Better Biomarker for Cancer Immunotherapy? Targeted Therapy to Treat Cancer Clinical Trials Accepting Patients Find Clinical Trials for Nivolumab - Check for trials from NCI's list of cancer clinical trials now accepting patients.


--- [Nivolumab - Wikipedia] ---
Nivolumab, sold under the brand name Opdivo, is an anti-cancer medication in the class of immune checkpoint inhibitors. It selectively binds and blocks the programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptor on T cells, thereby facilitating their activation. It is used to treat certain types of cancer including melanoma, lung cancer, malignant pleural mesothelioma, renal cell carcinoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, head and neck cancer, urothelial carcinoma, colon cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, liver cancer, gastric cancer, and esophageal or gastroesophageal junction cancer. It is administered intravenously.
The most common side effects include fatigue, rash, musculoskeletal pain, pruritus (itching), diarrhea, nausea, asthenia (weakness), cough, dyspnea (shortness of breath), constipation, decreased appetite, back pain, arthralgia (joint pain), upper respiratory tract infection, pyrexia (fever), headache, abdominal pain, and vomiting. Use during pregnancy may harm the baby. Nivolumab is a human IgG4 monoclonal antibody that blocks PD-1. It is a type of immunotherapy and works as a checkpoint inhibitor, blocking a signal that prevents activation of T cells from attacking the cancer. The most common side effects when used in combination with chemotherapy include peripheral neuropathy (damage to the nerves outside of the brain and spinal cord), nausea, fatigue, diarrhea, vomiting, decreased appetite, abdominal pain, constipation and musculoskeletal pain.
Nivolumab was approved for medical use in the United States in 2014. Nivolumab is a therapeutic alternative on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is made using Chinese hamster ovary cells. Nivolumab is the second FDA-approved systemic therapy for mesothelioma and is the first FDA-approved immunotherapy for the first-line treatment of gastric cancer.




--- [OPDIVO® (nivolumab)] ---
Discover an immunotherapy cancer treatment that may be faster* OPDIVO Qvantig™ is an FDA-approved alternative for most types of solid tumor cancer in adults that can be treated with OPDIVO® (nivolumab).† Discover an immunotherapy cancer treatment that may be faster* OPDIVO Qvantig™ is an FDA-approved alternative for most types of solid tumor cancer in adults that can be treated with OPDIVO® (nivolumab).† Actor portrayals. *A 3-5 minute injection time of OPDIVO Qvantig compared to 30-minute infusion time of OPDIVO. This does not account for all aspects of treatment. Does not include observation time. Actual clinic time may vary. †OPDIVO Qvantig is not indicated for co-administration with YERVOY® (ipilimumab). You and your healthcare provider may have a choice between under-the-skin injections (subcutaneous injection) with OPDIVO Qvantig and intravenous (lV) infusions with OPDIVO Explore resources to help you along your treatment journey We have answers about getting treatment, monitoring, and more OPDIVO and OPDIVO Qvantig will not work for everyone. Individual results may vary.


--- [Nivolumab: Monoclonal Antibody Metastatic Melanoma] ---
This book is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0) ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ), which permits others to distribute the work, provided that the article is not altered or used commercially. You are not required to obtain permission to distribute this article, provided that you credit the author and journal. NCBI Bookshelf. A service of the National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health. StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2025 Jan-. StatPearls [Internet]. Show detailsContinuing Education Activity Nivolumab is a monoclonal antibody for managing metastatic melanoma and other malignancies. The drug targets the PD1 receptor, an immune checkpoint, thus embodying a potent form of immunotherapy. This action obstructs the signal that impedes the activation of T-cells against cancerous cells. This activity discusses the drug's indications, mechanism of action, dosing and administration, and adverse event profile, providing essential insights for healthcare professionals involved in treating patients with metastatic melanoma and related conditions. Objectives: - Identify the appropriate indications for nivolumab therapy in various malignancies based on current clinical guidelines and patient-specific factors. - Screen patients for eligibility and potential contraindications, including autoimmune conditions and concurrent medications that may interact with nivolumab. - Assess and monitor patients for immune-related adverse events using standardized tools and clinical assessments. - Develop collaboration with oncologists, immunologists, and other specialists to ensure comprehensive and coordinated care for patients receiving nivolumab. Indications FDA-Approved Indications Nivolumab is an oncologic drug in the immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) class. Nivolumab received FDA approval in 2014. Depending on the indication, it can be given as a single agent or in combination with ipilimumab (anti-CTL4 immune checkpoint inhibitor). Nivolumab is currently FDA-approved for the treatment of: - Melanoma - Unresectable or metastatic melanoma, as a monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab. - As an adjuvant therapy in lymph node involvement or metastatic disease after complete resection.[1] - Non–small cell lung cancer - Metastatic, with progression during or after platinum-based chemotherapy (and after progression under targeted therapies for EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations in case these aberrations are present).[2] - As first-line therapy combined with ipilimumab in metastatic or recurrent non–small cell lung cancer with a PD-L1 expression equal or higher to 1% with no EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations.[3] - As first-line therapy in combination with ipilimumab, given with 2 cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy. - Renal cell carcinoma - After prior antiangiogenic therapy. - Previously untreated, of intermediate or poor risk, in combination with ipilimumab.[4] - Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck - Recurrent or metastatic with progressive disease on or following a platinum-based therapy.[5] - Pleural Mesothelioma - In combination with ipilimumab for unresectable pleural mesothelioma.[5] - Small cell lung cancer - Metastatic, with progression after platinum-based chemotherapy and at least 1 additional therapy.[6] - Urothelial carcinoma - Advanced or metastatic, showing disease progression during or after a platinum-based chemotherapy - Progressive disease, within 12 months of neo or adjuvant treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy.[7] - Colorectal cancer with microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) - Indicated for patients 12 years and older with metastatic cancer following progression after treatment with fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan. Nivolumab can be given as a monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab. - Hepatocellular carcinoma - Following previous treatment with sorafenib, in combination with ipilimumab - Classical Hodgkin lymphoma - After relapse or progression following an autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and brentuximab vedotin or at least 3 systemic therapies (including autologous HSCT) - Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma - After prior fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-based chemotherapy.[8] Mechanism of Action Nivolumab is a human monoclonal IgG4 antibody that binds to programmed death-1 (PD-1) receptors with high specificity and affinity. PD-1 is expressed on T-cells and dampens their immune response upon binding ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2 on APCs. This mechanism is pivotal to regulating central and peripheral tolerance.[9] However, in cancer, aberrant PD-L1 expression by tumor cells or immune cells in the tumor microenvironment deactivates PD-1-expressing tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, allowing tumor cells to escape immune recognition and elimination.[10][11] By inhibiting PD-1 function, nivolumab releases immune cells from pathological immune suppression, allowing them to recognize and counter tumor cells. Pharmacokinetics Absorption: Pharmacokinetic research on nivolumab presents linear pharmacokinetics with a dose-proportional increase in peak concentration and area under the curve (AUC). The time to peak plasma concentration ranges between 1 and 4 hours. Distribution: Nivolumab's mean volume of distribution at steady state is 6.8 L. The drug's coefficient of variation (CV%) is 27.3%. Metabolism: No formal studies have examined the specific metabolism of nivolumab. As a human monoclonal antibody, it has been suggested that the drug breaks down into small peptides and individual amino acids. Elimination: No studies regarding nivolumab's specific route of elimination have been conducted. The drug has a half-life of 25 days. Administration Available Dosage Forms and Strengths Nivolumab is available as an injectable solution in a single-dose vial in the following amounts: 40 mg/4 mL (10 mg/mL), 100 mg/10 mL (10 mg/mL), 120 mg/12 mL (10 mg/mL), and 240 mg/24 mL (10 mg/mL). Adult Dosing Nivolumab is administered as an intravenous infusion over 30 minutes. The most common dosing regimens are 240 mg every 2 weeks or 480 mg every 4 weeks. Dosing depends on the indication; practitioners should consult their institutional protocols and package insert for specific dose regimens. Nivolumab can be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution or in 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for injection. Regardless of the diluent used, immediate use following solution preparation is advised. Nivolumab may be given as a combination therapy with ipilimumab for unresectable or metastatic melanoma, advanced renal cell carcinoma, and metastatic colorectal cancer (MSI-H or dMMR). When given in combination, nivolumab must precede the ipilimumab infusion, and separate infusion bags must be used. In general, nivolumab should not be mixed with or provided on the same intravenous line as another drug. Until it is administered, nivolumab should be stored refrigerated at 2 °C to 8 °C (36 °F to 46 °F) and protected from light (in the original packaging). The vial should not be frozen or shaken. Specific Patient Population Hepatic impairment: No adjustment in dosing is necessary for patients with bilirubin values up to 3 times the upper normal limit (UNL) or with AST values > UNL. For patients with bilirubin over 3 times UNL, no data exists. Renal impairment: No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with a CrCl >15 mL/min. No data exists for patients with a CrCl <15 or on peritoneal or hemodialysis. Pregnancy considerations: Animal studies have suggested that nivolumab can cause fetal harm when given to pregnant women. The adverse effects are more prominent in the second and third trimesters. No available human data exists regarding the use of nivolumab in pregnant patients; clinicians should advise pregnant women about potential fetal harm. Breastfeeding considerations: No data exists regarding the presence of nivolumab in breast milk. However, due to the potential for severe adverse reactions in breastfeeding children, women are advised not to breastfeed during nivolumab treatment and for 5 months after the final dose. Pediatric patients: As with adult dosing, practitioners should consult their institutional protocols and package insert for specific dose regimens. Research has established the safety and effectiveness of nivolumab in pediatric patients 12 years and older for the following indications: - As a single agent and in conjunction with ipilimumab to treat unresectable or metastatic melanoma. - As a single agent for the adjuvant treatment of melanoma with lymph node involvement or metastatic disease in pediatric patients who have undergone complete resection. - As a single agent or in combination therapy with ipilimumab to treat MSI-H or dMMR mCRC that has progressed after treatment with a fluoropyrimidine agent, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan. Older patients: Available data shows no overall differences in safety or effectiveness between older and younger patients. However, some studies noted an increased incidence of adverse reactions and therapy discontinuation due to adverse reactions in patients older than age 75. Adverse Effects Severe infusion reactions to nivolumab have been recorded. However, these are uncommon. In the case of an infusion reaction, therapy must be immediately stopped and symptom-oriented care provided.[12][13] Due to the drug's T-cell activating mechanism of action, adverse effects during nivolumab therapy are commonly autoimmune-related. Immune-related adverse events (iRAEs) can affect any given organ system.[14] Some of the adverse effects are transitory and manageable. However, others are life-threatening and require aggressive immunosuppressive therapy and the permanent cessation of the drug.[15] The most common irAEs involve the gastrointestinal and integumentary systems and usually manifest as a pruritic rash, diarrhea, or colitis. When immune-mediated endocrine inflammation subdues, glandular function may be compromised, thus necessitating permanent hormone substitution. This includes nivolumab-induced hypothyroidism, hypopituitarism, adrenal insufficiency, and diabetes mellitus type 1.[16] Serious adverse reactions include pneumonitis, interstitial lung disease, respiratory failure, pleural effusion, autoimmune neuropathy, and numerous others. Immune-mediated pneumonitis is a rare adverse effect associated with severe manifestations.[17] Immune-related myocarditis is a very uncommon adverse event with high lethality.[18] Less common adverse effects include ocular conditions (eg, uveitis, conjunctivitis, myositis of periocular muscles), inflammatory hepatitis, endocrinopathies such as hypothyroidism, hypopituitarism, and adrenal insufficiency.[19] Other rare adverse events include those affecting the neurological system (eg, encephalitis, Guillain-Barré syndrome).[20][21] There are reports that the occurrence of irAEs in patients receiving ICIs correlates with a better outcome.[22] In particular, low-grade irAEs and those of an endocrine or dermatologic nature were associated with better tumor therapy efficacy.[23][24] The therapy of choice for severe and life-threatening irAEs consists of systemic corticosteroids. Prednisolone is given 1 to 2 mg/kg or intravenously, if necessary, along with prevention for gastric ulcers and osteoporosis.[15] In steroid-refractory cases, additional immunosuppression with drugs like infliximab, mycophenolate mofetil, or cyclophosphamide.[25] Intravenous immunoglobulins are also used in grade IV toxicities as an alternative in steroid-refractory cases.[26][27] Common adverse events include fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, diarrhea, rash, upper respiratory infections, urinary tract infections, and increased ALT or AST. As with more severe reactions, the list is long and generally revolves around the drug's immunosuppressive activity. Drug-Drug Interactions No significant drug-drug interactions are known for nivolumab. Clinicians should always exercise caution when using multiple drugs. Contraindications Boxed Warnings Nivolumab has no boxed warnings. Warnings and Precautions Contraindications to nivolumab include sensitivity to the drug or its ingredients and multiple myeloma. However, some important settings have not been addressed in clinical studies, such as drug interaction, use in pregnancy, and use during breastfeeding.[28] Some studies on animal models have shown embryofetal toxicity. As human IgG4 is known to cross the placental barrier, there is a potential pathway for transmitting antibodies to a developing fetus.[29] The use of nivolumab during pregnancy should be carefully considered in cases in which the potential benefits outweigh the risks to the patient and fetus.[30] There are literature reports of successful, viable pregnancies in patients who received nivolumab as monotherapy or combined with ipilimumab.[31] Contraception for at least 5 months after the last dose of nivolumab is strongly advised. Breastfeeding concomitantly to receiving nivolumab therapy is discouraged as antibodies might be passed onto the breast milk. Studies evaluating the fertility of patients receiving nivolumab have not yet been published; it remains unknown whether nivolumab affects either female or male fertility. Patients should be thoroughly informed on this matter, and reproductive counseling should be offered to patients in reproductive age groups. Although preexisting conditions of an autoimmune or inflammatory nature are not a contraindication for nivolumab therapy, it has been reported that such patients have increased rates of immunosuppressive therapy and hospitalization after ICI treatment.[32] Monitoring Work-up before initiating nivolumab therapy consists of extensive clinical history and physical examination. This includes a thorough baseline clinical assessment of all organ systems. A complete dermatologic assessment, as well as an assessment of gastrointestinal habits and complaints, are essential. Additionally, imaging is necessary to assess potential therapy efficacy. Serologic tests should rule out acute and subclinical infections (M. tuberculosis, hepatitis B and C Virus, human-immunodeficiency virus, Cytomegalovirus). Laboratory tests required before and during nivolumab therapy include complete blood counts with differential and clinical chemistry, thyroid function tests, liver function tests, and an endocrine panel.[14] Female patients should have a pregnancy test. Monitoring cardiac markers such as troponin I or T is relevant as it can be the only alteration in asymptomatic patients with myocarditis, which carries a high lethality.[18] Asymptomatic increase of liver transaminases is a common finding and, when pronounced, warrants a work-up to rule out autoimmune-related hepatitis. Periodic follow-up testing includes serum glucose readings and a chest x-ray. Toxicity Overdosing with nivolumab is unlikely and has not been described in the clinical trials. There is no specific treatment for the overdose of nivolumab. Clinicians and other interprofessional team members must ensure this drug's proper dosage and administration intervals. In case of an overdose, the patient should be placed under strict monitoring, and immediate symptomatic treatment should be provided as soon as signs of adverse reactions occur.[33] Enhancing Healthcare Team Outcomes The decision to use nivolumab results from interdisciplinary interaction between clinical oncologists, surgeons, radiologists, radiation oncologists, and interprofessional tumor boards. Appropriate communication with the patient's family clinician is warranted, especially if there should be a need to treat mild complications. Proper documentation (ie, medical history, clinical inspection, complimentary test, informed consent) is vital for a reliable interaction between multiple healthcare professionals in the long run. Drug preparation and coordination of transport according to schedule, appropriate labeling, and dosage are essential safety tasks the pharmacy team performs. Nurses typically administer the intravenous infusion and monitor the patient. They are experts in identifying slight clinical deterioration signs. For patients receiving nivolumab or other ICIs, the periodical treatment appointments at the oncologic center become embedded in their life routine. Therefore, an oncologic center delivering nivolumab should ensure a safe, comfortable, and hygienic environment. The physicians and nurses inform and train the patient to recognize symptoms that could hide developing side effects. Patients should have an identification card listing the treating clinicians' drug, underlying condition, and contact numbers. A good relationship between the patient and the healthcare team fosters patient compliance. Showing up to appointments according to the treatment schedule ensures safe and effective drug concentrations. Patients undergoing nivolumab treatment may profit from psychological support and nutritional counseling regardless of the tumor entity. References - 1. - Barrios DM, Do MH, Phillips GS, Postow MA, Akaike T, Nghiem P, Lacouture ME. Immune checkpoint inhibitors to treat cutaneous malignancies. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2020 Nov;83(5):1239-1253. [PMC free article: PMC7572574] [PubMed: 32461079] - 2. - Pirker R. Immunotherapy combinations in advanced nonsmall cell lung cancer. Curr Opin Oncol. 2021 Jan;33(1):73-79. [PubMed: 33186185] - 3. - Ready N, Hellmann MD, Awad MM, Otterson GA, Gutierrez M, Gainor JF, Borghaei H, Jolivet J, Horn L, Mates M, Brahmer J, Rabinowitz I, Reddy PS, Chesney J, Orcutt J, Spigel DR, Reck M, O'Byrne KJ, Paz-Ares L, Hu W, Zerba K, Li X, Lestini B, Geese WJ, Szustakowski JD, Green G, Chang H, Ramalingam SS. First-Line Nivolumab Plus Ipilimumab in Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer (CheckMate 568): Outcomes by Programmed Death Ligand 1 and Tumor Mutational Burden as Biomarkers. J Clin Oncol. 2019 Apr 20;37(12):992-1000. [PMC free article: PMC6494267] [PubMed: 30785829] - 4. - Albiges L, Tannir NM, Burotto M, McDermott D, Plimack ER, Barthélémy P, Porta C, Powles T, Donskov F, George S, Kollmannsberger CK, Gurney H, Grimm MO, Tomita Y, Castellano D, Rini BI, Choueiri TK, Saggi SS, McHenry MB, Motzer RJ. Nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus sunitinib for first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma: extended 4-year follow-up of the phase III CheckMate 214 trial. ESMO Open. 2020 Nov;5(6):e001079. [PMC free article: PMC7703447] [PubMed: 33246931] - 5. - Green SE, McCusker MG, Mehra R. Emerging immune checkpoint inhibitors for the treatment of head and neck cancers. Expert Opin Emerg Drugs. 2020 Dec;25(4):501-514. [PubMed: 33196319] - 6. - Zhang S, Bi M. The efficiency and safety of immune checkpoint inhibitors in the treatment of small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis. Ann Palliat Med. 2020 Nov;9(6):4081-4088. [PubMed: 33302668] - 7. - Tambaro R, Napoli MD, Pisano C, Cecere SC, Attademo L, Rossetti S, Feroce F, Setola S, Califano D, Russo D, Spina A, Perdonà S, Izzo A, Pignata S. From clinical trials to clinical use of checkpoint inhibitors for patients with metastatic urothelial cancer. Immunotherapy. 2021 Jan;13(1):67-77. [PubMed: 33045887] - 8. - Kato K, Cho BC, Takahashi M, Okada M, Lin CY, Chin K, Kadowaki S, Ahn MJ, Hamamoto Y, Doki Y, Yen CC, Kubota Y, Kim SB, Hsu CH, Holtved E, Xynos I, Kodani M, Kitagawa Y. Nivolumab versus chemotherapy in patients with advanced oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma refractory or intolerant to previous chemotherapy (ATTRACTION-3): a multicentre, randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 2019 Nov;20(11):1506-1517. [PubMed: 31582355] - 9. - Wang C, Thudium KB, Han M, Wang XT, Huang H, Feingersh D, Garcia C, Wu Y, Kuhne M, Srinivasan M, Singh S, Wong S, Garner N, Leblanc H, Bunch RT, Blanset D, Selby MJ, Korman AJ. In vitro characterization of the anti-PD-1 antibody nivolumab, BMS-936558, and in vivo toxicology in non-human primates. Cancer Immunol Res. 2014 Sep;2(9):846-56. [PubMed: 24872026] - 10. - Reiss KA, Forde PM, Brahmer JR. Harnessing the power of the immune system via blockade of PD-1 and PD-L1: a promising new anticancer strategy. Immunotherapy. 2014;6(4):459-75. [PMC free article: PMC4732706] [PubMed: 24815784] - 11. - Ahmadzadeh M, Johnson LA, Heemskerk B, Wunderlich JR, Dudley ME, White DE, Rosenberg SA. Tumor antigen-specific CD8 T cells infiltrating the tumor express high levels of PD-1 and are functionally impaired. Blood. 2009 Aug 20;114(8):1537-44. [PMC free article: PMC2927090] [PubMed: 19423728] - 12. - Kumari S, Yun J, Soares JR, Ding PN. Severe infusion reaction due to nivolumab: A case report. Cancer Rep (Hoboken). 2020 Jun;3(3):e1246. [PMC free article: PMC7941420] [PubMed: 32671983] - 13. - Núñez Abad M, Saval Victoria A, Franco La Rosa M, Berrocal A. Infusion reaction to nivolumab in a metastatic melanoma patient. Safe switch to another anti-programmed death-1: a case report. Melanoma Res. 2021 Feb 01;31(1):88-91. [PubMed: 33234847] - 14. - Wang Y, Kong D, Wang C, Chen J, Li J, Liu Z, Li X, Wang Z, Yao G, Wang X. A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Immune-Related Adverse Events of Anti-PD-1 Drugs in Randomized Controlled Trials. Technol Cancer Res Treat. 2020 Jan-Dec;19:1533033820967454. [PMC free article: PMC7588773] [PubMed: 33084525] - 15. - Morgado M, Plácido A, Morgado S, Roque F. Management of the Adverse Effects of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors. Vaccines (Basel). 2020 Oct 01;8(4) [PMC free article: PMC7711557] [PubMed: 33019641] - 16. - Nada A, Bhat R, Cousins J. Magnetic resonance imaging criteria of immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced hypophysitis. Curr Probl Cancer. 2021 Feb;45(1):100644. [PubMed: 32888700] - 17. - Bukamur H, Katz H, Alsharedi M, Alkrekshi A, Shweihat YR, Munn NJ. Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Related Pulmonary Toxicity: Focus on Nivolumab. South Med J. 2020 Nov;113(11):600-605. [PMC free article: PMC7587235] [PubMed: 33140115] - 18. - Palaskas N, Lopez-Mattei J, Durand JB, Iliescu C, Deswal A. Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Myocarditis: Pathophysiological Characteristics, Diagnosis, and Treatment. J Am Heart Assoc. 2020 Jan 21;9(2):e013757. [PMC free article: PMC7033840] [PubMed: 31960755] - 19. - Stuby J, Herren T, Schwegler Naumburger G, Papet C, Rudiger A. Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy-associated encephalitis: a case series and review of the literature. Swiss Med Wkly. 2020 Nov 16;150:w20377. [PubMed: 33232507] - 20. - Haugh AM, Probasco JC, Johnson DB. Neurologic complications of immune checkpoint inhibitors. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2020 Apr;19(4):479-488. [PMC free article: PMC7192781] [PubMed: 32126176] - 21. - Citarella F, Galletti A, Russano M, Gallo P, Vespasiani-Gentilucci U, Picardi A, Tonini G, Vincenzi B, Santini D. Steroid-refractory immune related hepatitis may hide viral re-activation. Future Sci OA. 2020 Aug 06;6(9):FSO614. [PMC free article: PMC7668132] [PubMed: 33235808] - 22. - Abdel-Rahman O, Oweira H, Petrausch U, Helbling D, Schmidt J, Mannhart M, Mehrabi A, Schöb O, Giryes A. Immune-related ocular toxicities in solid tumor patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors: a systematic review. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2017 Apr;17(4):387-394. [PubMed: 28277102] - 23. - Hussaini S, Chehade R, Boldt RG, Raphael J, Blanchette P, Maleki Vareki S, Fernandes R. Association between immune-related side effects and efficacy and benefit of immune checkpoint inhibitors - A systematic review and meta-analysis. Cancer Treat Rev. 2021 Jan;92:102134. [PubMed: 33302134] - 24. - Zhou X, Yao Z, Yang H, Liang N, Zhang X, Zhang F. Are immune-related adverse events associated with the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors in patients with cancer? A systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Med. 2020 Apr 20;18(1):87. [PMC free article: PMC7169020] [PubMed: 32306958] - 25. - Suresh K, Voong KR, Shankar B, Forde PM, Ettinger DS, Marrone KA, Kelly RJ, Hann CL, Levy B, Feliciano JL, Brahmer JR, Feller-Kopman D, Lerner AD, Lee H, Yarmus L, D'Alessio F, Hales RK, Lin CT, Psoter KJ, Danoff SK, Naidoo J. Pneumonitis in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Receiving Immune Checkpoint Immunotherapy: Incidence and Risk Factors. J Thorac Oncol. 2018 Dec;13(12):1930-1939. [PubMed: 30267842] - 26. - Brahmer JR, Lacchetti C, Thompson JA. Management of Immune-Related Adverse Events in Patients Treated With Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Therapy: American Society of Clinical Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline Summary. J Oncol Pract. 2018 Apr;14(4):247-249. [PubMed: 29517954] - 27. - Arumugham VB, Rayi A. StatPearls [Internet]. StatPearls Publishing; Treasure Island (FL): Jul 3, 2023. Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIG) [PubMed: 32119333] - 28. - Bucheit AD, Hardy JT, Szender JB, Glitza Oliva IC. Conception and viable twin pregnancy in a patient with metastatic melanoma while treated with CTLA-4 and PD-1 checkpoint inhibition. Melanoma Res. 2020 Aug;30(4):423-425. [PubMed: 32073510] - 29. - Xu W, Moor RJ, Walpole ET, Atkinson VG. Pregnancy with successful foetal and maternal outcome in a melanoma patient treated with nivolumab in the first trimester: case report and review of the literature. Melanoma Res. 2019 Jun;29(3):333-337. [PubMed: 30730328] - 30. - Burotto M, Gormaz JG, Samtani S, Valls N, Silva R, Rojas C, Portiño S, de la Jara C. Viable Pregnancy in a patient with metastatic melanoma treated with double checkpoint immunotherapy. Semin Oncol. 2018 Jun;45(3):164-169. [PubMed: 30262400] - 31. - Menzer C, Beedgen B, Rom J, Duffert CM, Volckmar AL, Sedlaczek O, Richtig E, Enk A, Jäger D, Hassel JC. Immunotherapy with ipilimumab plus nivolumab in a stage IV melanoma patient during pregnancy. Eur J Cancer. 2018 Nov;104:239-242. [PubMed: 30454709] - 32. - Bender DA, Heilbroner SP, Wang TJC, Shu CA, Hyde B, Spina C, Cheng SK. Increased rates of immunosuppressive treatment and hospitalization after checkpoint inhibitor therapy in cancer patients with autoimmune disease. J Immunother Cancer. 2020 Dec;8(2) [PMC free article: PMC7733208] [PubMed: 33303578] - 33. - Raschi E, Mazzarella A, Antonazzo IC, Bendinelli N, Forcesi E, Tuccori M, Moretti U, Poluzzi E, De Ponti F. Toxicities with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors: Emerging Priorities From Disproportionality Analysis of the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System. Target Oncol. 2019 Apr;14(2):205-221. [PubMed: 30927173] Disclosure: Adriana Rendon declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. Disclosure: Appaji Rayi declares no relevant financial relationships with ineligible companies. - Review The Next Immune-Checkpoint Inhibitors: PD-1/PD-L1 Blockade in Melanoma.[Clin Ther. 2015]Review The Next Immune-Checkpoint Inhibitors: PD-1/PD-L1 Blockade in Melanoma.Mahoney KM, Freeman GJ, McDermott DF. Clin Ther. 2015 Apr 1; 37(4):764-82. Epub 2015 Mar 29. - Review Checkpoint immunotherapy by nivolumab for treatment of metastatic melanoma.[J Cancer Res Ther. 2018]Review Checkpoint immunotherapy by nivolumab for treatment of metastatic melanoma.Koppolu V, Rekha Vasigala VK. J Cancer Res Ther. 2018 Oct-Dec; 14(6):1167-1175. - Systemic treatments for metastatic cutaneous melanoma.[Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018]Systemic treatments for metastatic cutaneous melanoma.Pasquali S, Hadjinicolaou AV, Chiarion Sileni V, Rossi CR, Mocellin S. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018 Feb 6; 2(2):CD011123. Epub 2018 Feb 6. - Review Place des anti-PD1 dans la prise en charge des mélanomes cutanés.[Bull Cancer. 2016]Review Place des anti-PD1 dans la prise en charge des mélanomes cutanés.Mateus C, Libenciuc C, Robert C. Bull Cancer. 2016 Jun; 103(6 Suppl 1):S4-S11. - Immune Profile Analysis in Peripheral Blood and Tumor in Patients with Malignant Melanoma.[Int J Mol Sci. 2021]Immune Profile Analysis in Peripheral Blood and Tumor in Patients with Malignant Melanoma.Saito R, Sawada Y, Nakamura M. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Feb 16; 22(4). Epub 2021 Feb 16. - Nivolumab - StatPearlsNivolumab - StatPearls Your browsing activity is empty. Activity recording is turned off. See more...


--- [Nivolumab (Opdivo®) - Macmillan Cancer Support] ---
Nivolumab (Opdivo®) What is nivolumab (Opdivo®)? Nivolumab is also called Opdivo®. It is a type of immunotherapy drug called a checkpoint inhibitor. Nivolumab can be given on its own or in combination with other drugs to treat many different types of cancer. It is best to read this information with our general information about immunotherapy drugs and the type of cancer you have. Your cancer team will talk to you about this treatment and the possible side effects before you agree (consent) to have treatment. More information about this treatment This information is correct at time of publishing. But sometimes the types of cancer this treatment is used for, or treatment side effects, may change between revision dates. You can talk to your cancer team if you want more detailed information about this treatment. Or visit the electronic Medicines Compendium (eMC) website, which has patient information leaflets (PIL) for individual drugs. How nivolumab works The immune system protects the body against illness and infection. Immunotherapy drugs use the immune system to find and attack cancer cells. Checkpoint inhibitors affect a type of white blood cell called a lymphocyte. Lymphocytes are an important part of the immune system. When they are active, they can attack other cells, including cancer cells. But if they receive a certain signal from the other cell, they switch off (become inactive) and do not attack it. Checkpoint inhibitors block the signals that switch off lymphocytes. They do this by attaching to either the cancer cell or the lymphocyte. This means the lymphocyte stays active and can attack the cancer cell. How nivolumab is given You usually have nivolumab at a day unit or clinic as an outpatient. You may have it with other cancer drugs. During a course of treatment, you will meet someone from your cancer team, such as a: - cancer doctor - specialist nurse - specialist pharmacist. This is who we mean when we mention doctor, nurse or pharmacist in this information. During your course of treatment, you will have regular blood tests. This is to check that it is safe for you to have treatment. You will meet with a doctor, nurse or pharmacist before you have treatment. They will talk to you about your blood results and ask how you have been feeling. If your blood results are okay, the pharmacy team will prepare your treatment. You have nivolumab as a drip into a vein (intravenous infusion) or as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous). As a drip into a vein You have it over 30 minutes or 1 hour, depending on the dose. Your nurse will give you nivolumab through 1 of the following: - a cannula – a short, thin tube the nurse puts into a vein in your arm or hand - a central line – a fine tube that goes under the skin of your chest and into a vein close by - a PICC line – a fine tube that is put into a vein in your arm and goes up into a vein in your chest - an implantable port (portacath) – a disc that is put under the skin on your chest or arm and goes into a vein in your chest. As an injection under the skin Your nurse gives the injection into your thigh or tummy over several minutes. They will monitor you for a while afterwards to make sure you do not have a reaction. Your course of treatment How often you have nivolumab depends on the cancer type being treated. You usually have it once every 2 weeks, once every 3 weeks, or once every 4 weeks. Your cancer team may also give you anti-sickness drugs and other medicines to take home. Take all your capsules or tablets exactly as they tell you to. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will discuss your treatment plan with you. About side effects We explain the most common side effects of this treatment here. We also include some that are less common. This treatment can make the immune system too active. This can cause side effects that may be serious if not treated quickly. You may get some of the side effects we mention, but you are unlikely to get all of them. And you may have some side effects, including rarer ones, that we have not listed here. Other cancer treatments may cause different side effects. If you are also having other cancer treatment, you may have other side effects. Do not try to treat side effects yourself. Always tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist about any side effects you have. They can give you: - drugs to help control some side effects - advice about managing side effects. It is important to take any drugs exactly as explained. This means they will be more likely to work for you. Serious and life-threatening side effects Some cancer treatments can cause serious side effects. Sometimes, these may be life-threatening. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist can explain the risk of these side effects to you. Delayed side effects This treatment may also cause delayed side effects. These can start weeks, months, or sometimes more than a year after you finish treatment. If you have symptoms or side effects that start during treatment or after treatment ends, contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number. Side effects can become serious if they are not treated. Contact the hospital Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will give you 24-hour contact numbers for the hospital. If you feel unwell or need advice, you can call at any time of the day or night. Save these numbers in your phone or keep them somewhere safe. Your patient alert card They will also give you a card with information about your treatment. It is important to keep the card with you during treatment and after treatment ends. You should show it to any doctor or healthcare professional caring for you. Side effects while treatment is being given Some people may have side effects while they are being given this treatment or shortly after they have it. Allergic reaction Some people have an allergic reaction while having this treatment. Signs of a reaction can include: - feeling hot or flushed - shivering - itching - a skin rash - feeling dizzy or sick - a headache - feeling breathless or wheezy - swelling of your face or mouth - pain in your back, tummy or chest. Your nurse will check you for signs of a reaction during your treatment. If you feel unwell or have any of these signs, tell them straight away. If you do have a reaction, they can treat it quickly. Sometimes a reaction happens a few hours after treatment. If you develop any of these signs or feel unwell after you get home, contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number. Always call 999 if swelling happens suddenly or you are struggling to breathe. Problems at the injection site If you have nivolumab as an injection under the skin, the skin in the area that was injected may become: - painful - swollen - red, if you have white skin - darker, if you have black or brown skin. This is usually mild and goes away soon after your injection. Your nurse can give you advice on coping with this. Immune system side effects This treatment can make the immune system too active. This can cause the following side effects. Some of them are rare. But it is important to know about them. Do not try to treat these side effects yourself. If you have these side effects during treatment or after it ends, always contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number. Feeling tired (fatigue) Feeling tired is a common side effect of this treatment. Try to pace yourself and plan your day so you have time to rest. Gentle exercise, like short walks, can help you feel less tired. Sometimes tiredness is caused by this treatment affecting glands that produce hormones. If your hormone levels are low, you may need hormone replacement drugs. Contact your cancer team or hospital if either of these things happen during treatment or after it ends: - your tiredness gets worse - you feel weak or shaky. If you feel sleepy, do not drive or use machinery. Muscle and joint pain This treatment can cause sore or weak muscles. Your joints may also be stiff, sore or swollen (arthritis). If you already have problems with joint pain, this may become worse. Contact the hospital on the 24-hour number if you have any of these symptoms during treatment or after it ends: - new or worsening aches or pains - new or worsening stiffness in a joint - swollen joints. You may need steroids or other treatments, such as painkillers. Diarrhoea or tummy pain You may have diarrhoea or tummy (abdominal) pain. This treatment can also cause inflammation of the bowel (colitis) which can be very serious. Diarrhoea means passing more stools (poo) than is normal for you, or having watery or loose stools. If you have a stoma, it may be more active than usual. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you have any of the following symptoms during treatment, or after treatment ends: - You have diarrhoea 4 or more times in a day. - You have a moderate increase in stoma activity. - You have uncomfortable tummy cramps. - You have diarrhoea at night. - Your temperature is over 37.5°C. - There is blood or mucus in your stool. You may need to go into hospital to have fluids through a drip or treatments such as steroids. Skin changes This treatment may cause inflammation in the skin. This is usually mild, but if it is not treated it can become serious. You may need creams, steroids or other medicines to treat skin problems. If you notice skin changes during treatment, or after treatment ends, contact the hospital on the 24-hour number as soon as possible. Skin changes can include: - a rash or bumps on the skin - dry or itchy skin - patches of white or paler skin. To protect your skin from the sun, use suncream with an SPF of at least 30. SPF stands for sun protection factor. Cover up with clothing and a hat. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you have any of these symptoms: - a rash that is spreading - blistering or peeling skin - flu-like symptoms, such as a high temperature and joint pain. These symptoms can be a sign of a serious skin reaction that needs to be treated immediately in hospital. Effects on the lungs This treatment can cause inflammation of the lungs. This is called pneumonitis. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you notice any of these changes during treatment or after it ends: - breathlessness - a cough that does not go away - wheezing - a fever, with a temperature over 37.5°C. You should also tell them if any existing breathing problems get worse. You may have tests to check your lungs. You may need steroids or other treatments. Eyesight changes This treatment can affect your eyes and eyesight. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you have any of these symptoms during treatment or after it ends: - sore, painful, or swollen eyes - eyes that are sensitive to light - changes to your eyesight. You may need steroids or other treatments. A specialist eye doctor (ophthalmologist) may also need to check your eyes. Hormone changes This treatment may affect your hormones. Hormones control many different processes in the body. You will have regular blood tests to check some of your hormone levels. Contact the hospital on the 24-hour number if you have any of these side effects during treatment or after it ends: - increased sweating - weight gain or weight loss - dizziness or fainting - feeling more hungry or thirsty than usual - loss of sex drive - passing urine (peeing) more often than usual - headaches that do not go away - feeling more tired than usual (fatigue) - mood changes. You may need drugs to control your hormone levels. Effects on the heart This treatment can affect how the heart works. This is not common, but it can be serious. You may have tests to check how well your heart is working. These may be done before, during and after treatment. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you have any of these symptoms during or after treatment: - breathlessness - dizziness - changes to your heartbeat (palpitations) - swollen feet and ankles. Other conditions can cause these symptoms, but it is important to get them checked by a doctor. Always call 999 if you have: - chest pain, pressure, heaviness, tightness or squeezing across the chest - difficulty breathing. If your symptoms are caused by this treatment, you may need steroids. You may be monitored in hospital for a time. Effects on the kidneys This treatment can cause kidney inflammation and may affect how the kidneys work. This is called nephritis. This is not common, but if it is not treated it can become serious. You will have regular blood tests to check how your kidneys are working. If tests show kidney changes, you may have steroids or other treatments. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number during treatment, or after it ends, if you either: - have blood in your urine (pee) - are passing less urine or peeing less often than usual. Effects on the pancreas This treatment can cause inflammation of the pancreas and may affect how your pancreas works. This is called pancreatitis. This is not common, but if it is not treated it can become serious. You will have regular blood tests to check this. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number during treatment, or after it ends, if you have a sharp pain in your upper tummy area (abdomen) with sickness and vomiting. Effects on the liver This treatment can cause liver inflammation and may affect how your liver works. This is called hepatitis. You will have regular blood tests to check this. If the blood tests show liver changes, you may have steroids. Sometimes liver changes can be serious. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you have any of these symptoms during treatment or after it finishes: - yellow skin or eyes - feeling very sleepy - dark urine (pee) - unexplained bleeding or bruising - pain in the right side of your tummy (abdomen) - loss of appetite. If you have black or brown skin, changes in your skin colour may be less noticeable. You might first notice the whites of your eyes look yellow, or that the colour of your urine has changed. Effects on the nervous system Rarely, this treatment can affect the brain and nerves. These effects may be mild at first, but can become serious if they are not treated. Symptoms may include: - weakness, numbness or tingling in your arms, legs or face - unexplained pain in other parts of your body - a headache that does not get better - vomiting, neck stiffness or sensitivity to light - dizziness, drowsiness or confusion - problems with moving or speaking - fits (seizures). If you have any of these symptoms during treatment or after it ends, it is important to either: - contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number - go to the hospital straight away or call 999. You should not drive yourself to hospital. Other side effects (very common) Low number of white blood cells This treatment can reduce the number of white cells in your blood. These cells fight infection. If you have any signs of an infection, tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. These signs include: - a cough - a sore throat - diarrhoea - needing to pass urine (pee) often, or discomfort when you pass urine. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you have any of these symptoms: - a temperature above 37.5°C - a temperature below 36°C - you feel unwell, even with a normal temperature. Bruising and bleeding This treatment can reduce the number of platelets in your blood. Platelets are cells that help the blood to clot. If the number of platelets is low, you may bruise or bleed easily. You may have: - nosebleeds - bleeding gums - heavy periods - blood in your urine (pee) or stools (poo) - tiny red, brown or purple spots that may look like a rash – these spots can be harder to see if you have black or brown skin. If you have any unexplained bruising or bleeding, contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number. You may need a drip to give you extra platelets. This is called a platelet transfusion. Anaemia (low number of red blood cells) This treatment can reduce the number of red blood cells in your blood. Red blood cells carry oxygen around the body. If the number of red blood cells is low, this is called anaemia. You may feel: - very low in energy - breathless - dizzy and light-headed. If you have these symptoms, contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number. You may need treatment for anaemia. If you are very anaemic, you may need a drip to give you extra red blood cells. This is called a blood transfusion. Feeling sick Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will prescribe anti-sickness drugs to help prevent or control sickness. Take the drugs exactly as they tell you to, even if you do not feel sick. It is easier to prevent sickness than to treat it after it has started. If you feel sick, take small sips of fluid often and eat small amounts regularly. It is important to drink enough fluids. If you continue to feel sick, or if you are sick (vomit) 1 to 2 times in 24 hours, contact the hospital on the 24-hour number as soon as possible. They will give you advice. They may change your anti-sickness treatment. Let them know if you still feel sick. Loss of appetite This treatment can affect your appetite. Don’t worry if you do not eat much for 1 or 2 days. But if your appetite does not come back after a few days, or if you are losing weight, tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. They can give you advice. They may give you food or drink supplements. Or they may suggest changes to your diet or eating habits to help. Constipation This treatment can cause constipation. Constipation means that you are not able to pass stools (poo) as often as you normally do. It can become difficult or painful. Here are some tips that may help: - Drink at least 2 litres (3½ pints) of fluids each day. - Eat high-fibre foods, such as fruit, vegetables and wholemeal bread. - Do regular gentle exercise, like going for short walks. If you have constipation, contact the hospital on the 24-hour number for advice. They can give you drugs called laxatives to help. If you have not been able to pass stools for over 2 days and are being sick, contact the 24-hour number straight away. Raised blood sugar levels This treatment may raise your blood sugar levels and increase the risk of diabetes. You will have regular blood tests to check this. Signs of raised blood sugar include: - feeling thirsty - needing to pass urine (pee) more often than usual - feeling more tired than usual. Contact the hospital on the 24-hour number if you have these symptoms during treatment or after it ends. If you already have diabetes, your blood sugar levels may be higher than usual. You may need advice and support from your GP or diabetes team about managing this. Other side effects (less common) Sore mouth and throat This treatment may cause a sore mouth and throat. You may also get mouth ulcers. This can make you more likely to get a mouth or throat infection. Use a soft toothbrush to clean your teeth or dentures in the morning, at night and after meals. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number, if: - a sore mouth or throat affects how much you can drink or eat - your mouth, tongue, throat or lips have any blisters, ulcers or white patches. They can give you advice, and mouthwash or medicines to help with the pain or to treat any infection. Follow their advice and make sure you: - drink plenty of fluids - avoid alcohol and tobacco - avoid food or drinks that irritate your mouth and throat. Hair loss You might notice that your hair slowly gets thinner. But you are very unlikely to lose all the hair from your head. Your hair can also become more brittle. Your nurse can give you information about coping with hair loss. Your hair will usually go back to normal after treatment ends. Fluid build-up This treatment can cause a build-up of fluid in the body. This will slowly get better after treatment ends. Contact the hospital on the 24-hour number if you: - are gaining weight - have swelling in your face, legs or ankles. They can give you advice and treatment to help. Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) Some people are at risk of developing a condition called tumour lysis syndrome (TLS). The risk is highest at the beginning of treatment. TLS happens when treatment makes large numbers of cancer cells die and break down quickly. This releases lots of waste products into the blood and can affect the kidneys and heart. TLS can be prevented or treated. You will have regular blood tests to check for TLS. You may have: - extra fluids through a drip - medicines such as allopurinol tablets or rasburicase through a drip. Drinking at least 2 litres (3½ pints) of fluid a day will also help. Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) Cytokines are chemical messengers that increase the effects of the immune system. Nivolumab causes the body to release large amounts of cytokines. This can cause flu-like symptoms, which can range from mild to severe. Some people may be monitored and treated in intensive care until this improves. Symptoms include: - a high temperature - a fast heart rate - low blood pressure and dizziness - muscle and joint pain - diarrhoea - feeling sick and being sick - difficulty breathing. If you have any of these symptoms during treatment or after it ends, it is important to either: - contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number - go to the hospital straight away or call 999. You should not drive yourself to hospital. Other important information Blood clot risk Cancer and some cancer treatments can increase the risk of a blood clot. Contact the hospital straight away on the 24-hour number if you have any of these symptoms during or after treatment: - throbbing pain or swelling in a leg or arm - reddening of the skin in the area – if you have black or brown skin, this can be harder to notice, but the skin might become darker - suddenly feeling breathless or coughing. Always call 999 if you have: - chest pain - difficulty breathing. A blood clot is serious, but it can be treated with drugs called anticoagulants. These thin the blood. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist can give you more information about preventing and treating blood clots. Other medicines Some medicines can affect how this treatment works or be harmful while you are having it. Always tell your cancer doctor, nurse or pharmacist about any drugs you are taking or planning to take, such as: - medicines you have been prescribed - medicines you buy in a shop, pharmacy or online - vitamins or supplements - herbal drugs and complementary or homeopathic therapies - recreational drugs – for example, cannabis. Vaccinations Cancer doctors usually recommend that people with cancer have vaccinations for flu and coronavirus (covid). They may also recommend other vaccines, such as Shingrix® for shingles. These all help reduce your risk of serious illness from these infections. Most people can have these vaccines, including people with weak immune systems. You should not have live vaccines if your immune system is weak. This includes if you are having or recently had chemotherapy, radiotherapy or other cancer treatments that affect your immune system. Live vaccines can make you unwell because they contain a very weak version of the illness they protect you against. There are several live vaccines, including the yellow fever vaccine. It is important to ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist for advice about having vaccinations. They can explain what vaccines are right for you and when it is best to have them. Contraception Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will advise you not to get pregnant or make someone pregnant while having this treatment and for some time afterwards. The drugs may harm a developing baby. It is important to use contraception to prevent pregnancy. Follow their advice about: - what types of contraception to use - how long after treatment you should continue to use contraception. Breastfeeding You are advised not to breastfeed while having this treatment, or for some time after treatment ends. This is because the drugs could be passed to the baby through breast milk. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist can give you more information. Fertility Some cancer drugs can affect whether you can get pregnant or make someone pregnant. If you are worried about this, it is important to talk with your doctor before you start treatment. Medical and dental treatment If you need medical treatment for any reason other than cancer, always tell the healthcare professional that you are having cancer treatment. Show them your patient alert card. Give them the contact details for your cancer doctor or cancer team so they can ask for advice. If you have appointments with a dentist or optician, always tell them you are having cancer treatment. Talk to your cancer team before you have any dental treatment. About our information This information has been written, revised and edited by Macmillan Cancer Support’s Cancer Information Development team. It has been reviewed by expert medical and health professionals and people living with cancer. - References Visit the electronic Medicines Compendium (eMC) to download a Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) for more detailed information. The leaflet lists all known side effects. Date reviewed Our cancer information meets the PIF TICK quality mark. This means it is easy to use, up-to-date and based on the latest evidence. Learn more about how we produce our information. The language we use We want everyone affected by cancer to feel our information is written for them. We want our information to be as clear as possible. To do this, we try to: - use plain English - explain medical words - use short sentences - use illustrations to explain text - structure the information clearly - make sure important points are clear. We use gender-inclusive language and talk to our readers as ‘you’ so that everyone feels included. Where clinically necessary we use the terms ‘men’ and ‘women’ or ‘male’ and ‘female’. For example, we do so when talking about parts of the body or mentioning statistics or research about who is affected. You can read more about how we produce our information here.
