=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The PM, a crystal ball and the Keyhole House, part II]
The Right Honorable William Lyon Mackenzie King, Canada's tenth prime minister of Canada, regularly visited the famed fortune teller Frances Fitzgerald in Smiths Falls.
URL: https://vitacollections.ca/smithsfallsdigitalarchive/706/exhibit/2

[William Lyon Mackenzie King - OCCULT WORLD]
Jul 6, 2017 · William Lyon Mackenzie King (1874–1950) Canadian prime minister and spiritualist. William Lyon Mackenzie King was born on December 17, 1874, in Berlin (now Kitchener), Ontario. A lawyer and political scientist, he was elected leader of the Liberal Party in 1919 and first became prime minister in 1921. He served in that position for a total of 22 years in three periods, 1921–25, 1926–30 ...
URL: https://occult-world.com/william-lyon-mackenzie-king/

[The Spiritualist Prime Minister by Anton Wagner - SRIC]
Book Reviews Documentaries, Blogs and Podcasts As the culmination of ten years of research and writing, Anton Wagner's The Spiritualist Prime Minister (TSPM) reveals the extent to which William Lyon Mackenzie King (1874-1950), Canada's longest-serving Prime Minister, was influenced by communication with spirits. For Canadians approaching 80, King was Prime Minister when they were born and ...
URL: https://survivalresearch.ca/tspm/

[William Lyon Mackenzie King - Wikipedia]
William Lyon Mackenzie King (December 17, 1874 - July 22, 1950) was the prime minister of Canada for three non-consecutive terms from 1921 to 1926, 1926 to 1930, and 1935 to 1948.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Lyon_Mackenzie_King

[The Ghosts of Politics II: William Lyon Mackenzie King]
Aug 3, 2010 · After World War I, William Lyon Mackenzie King was upset and disturbed by the deaths of his parents, sister, brother, and a close friend. Seeking comfort, he turned to Spiritualism, and started to consult mediums and attend seances. King hoped to gain proof of an "afterlife".
URL: https://shadowhuntersgroup.blogspot.com/2010/08/ghosts-of-politics-ii-william-lyon.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The PM, a crystal ball and the Keyhole House, part II] ---
No content


--- [William Lyon Mackenzie King - OCCULT WORLD] ---
William Lyon Mackenzie King William Lyon Mackenzie King (1874–1950) Canadian prime minister and spiritualist. William Lyon Mackenzie King was born on December 17, 1874, in Berlin (now Kitchener), Ontario. A lawyer and political scientist, he was elected leader of the Liberal Party in 1919 and first became prime minister in 1921. He served in that position for a total of 22 years in three periods, 1921–25, 1926–30, and 1935–48. He retired from politics in 1948. During and immediately following World War I, King’s father, mother, brother, sister, and a close friend died. Like many others, he turned to Mediums and fortune-tellers for spirit messages and guidance. He recorded the details of his efforts in a diary for several decades. During the 1920s, King consulted Rachel Bleaney, a fortune-teller from Kingston, Ontario. On a trip to London, he met with Sir Oliver Lodge and recorded Lodge’s comments on the ordering of human lives by spirit beings and the need for faith on the part of both mediums and sitters. King reportedly was invited to his first formal Séance in 1932, held at the Brockville home of Mrs. Fulford, the widow of a Canadian senator. He was introduced to the Direct Voice Mediumship of the American Henrietta (Etta) Wriedt (1859–1942), who became his favourite medium. Throughout the rest of the 1930s, King traveled frequently to Detroit to attend additional Séances. In 1933 he met medical doctor Thomas Glendenning Hamilton at his Winnipeg residence, where they discussed the Hamiltons’ Psychical Research experiments. Lady Aberdeen, whose husband had been Governor- General of Canada from 1893–98, told King that she had received evidence through Automatic Writing of the continued existence of her recently deceased husband. King had contacted Lord Aberdeen himself through table Rappings. King and his close friend Joan Patteson took up the practice of table-rapping at their residences in Ottawa. They received frequent messages from King’s mother, his brother Max, and former prime minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier (1841–1919). In 1936, King went to London to visit the London Spiritualist Alliance. In the 1940s, King continued to consult mediums in England, among them Lilian Bailey (d. 1971), Hester (Travers-Smith) Dowden (1868–1949), Gladys Osborne Leonard (1882–1968), and Geraldine Cummins (1890–1969). In addition to his regular attempts to obtain spirit communication, King had been interested in other aspects of the occult since at least 1918, including interpretation of DREAMS, numerology, synchronicity, and the reading of tea leaves. King died on July 22, 1950. His spiritualist beliefs had been known only to his close friends and colleagues. The professional mediums he consulted had guarded his privacy closely. His interests and activities became public knowledge in Britain’s Psychic News after his death. The story was picked up by Maclean’s magazine and Canadian newspapers, with speculation about how much spirit messages might have influenced his political decisions. In her Unseen Adventures (1951), Geraldine Cummins describes sittings that she held for a British Commonwealth statesman, who undoubtedly was King. In their initial meeting, his identity had been concealed from her. Cummins was impressed by her visitor’s “realistic and critical analysis of evidence presented by other psychic experiments. He was far too intelligent to be credulous, and his observations on the subject were to me very instructive.” Two years later, following a second sitting that warned about potential troubles in Asia, the statesman had said that “he made it a rule to ignore advice thus given: he trusted solely to his own and his advisers’ judgment.” King’s personal papers were acquired by Library and Archives Canada. In 1977, his literary executors made the decision to burn the notebooks in which mediums had apparently recorded their impressions in response to questions King had asked. The remaining records about his spiritualist activities were closed and only opened to researchers in 2001, a full 50 years after his death. SEE ALSO: FURTHER READING: - Colombo, John Robert. Mackenzie King’s Ghost. Toronto: Hounslow Press, 1991. - Cummins, Geraldine. Unseen Adventures: An Autobiography Covering 34 Years of Psychic Research. London: Rider and Company, 1951. Appendix titled “Reminiscences of a British Commonwealth Statesman.” - Fodor, Nandor. Between Two Worlds. West Nyack, New York: Parker Publishing Company, 1964. Chapter titled “Mackenzie King’s Search for Survival.” - Goodall, Lian. William Lyon Mackenzie King: Dreams and Shadows. Montreal: XYZ Publishing, 2003. - McMullin, Stan. Anatomy of a Séance: A History of Spirit Communication in Central Canada. Montreal and Kingston: McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2004, pp. 213–220. - Stacey, C. P. A Very Double Life: The Private World of Mackenzie King. Toronto: Macmillan of Canada, 1976. SOURCE: The Encyclopedia of Ghosts and Spirits– Written by Rosemary Ellen Guiley – September 1, 2007


--- [The Spiritualist Prime Minister by Anton Wagner - SRIC] ---
Book Reviews Documentaries, Blogs and Podcasts As the culmination of ten years of research and writing, Anton Wagner’s The Spiritualist Prime Minister (TSPM) reveals the extent to which William Lyon Mackenzie King (1874-1950), Canada’s longest-serving Prime Minister, was influenced by communication with spirits. For Canadians approaching 80, King was Prime Minister when they were born and the man who led Canada through the Great Depression and World War II. Since 1975, King has been remembered on our fifty dollar banknote. What has not been widely accepted until now is that King had more than a passing interest in Spiritualism and the occult, and that there is sufficient historical record to permit this two-volume biography. The meticulous research of Toronto-based scholar Aton Wagner has documented King’s more than 130 known interactions with mediums, psychics, fortune-tellers, palmists, astrologers, graphologists, phrenologists, and psychic investigators. King’s primary interest was communication with his deceased mother and others to whom he had been close during their lifetime, including political leaders. The Spiritualist Prime Minister is the first major revisionist biography of Mackenzie King. Volume 1 discusses King’s pursuit of spirit communication within the international context of the proclamation by Arthur Conan Doyle, creator of Sherlock Holmes, that Spiritualism was “The New Revelation” to mankind (388 pp.; 50 images). Volume 2 documents King’s interactions between 1919 and 1950 with Spiritualists and psychic investigators in Canada, England, and the United States, including his Ottawa sittings with his close friend Joan Patteson (388 pp.; 46 images). The biography makes fascinating reading for everyone interested in political studies, in the realms of Spiritualism and psychology, and in examinations of power. White Crow Books, in association with the Survival Research Institute of Canada (SRIC), are proud to announce publication of The Spiritualist Prime Minister for the 150th anniversary of King’s birth on the 17th of December 2024. The Spiritualist Prime Minister is available for online purchase through Amazon Canada. With both volumes in your shopping cart when you checkout or a Prime membership, you may qualify for free shipping. The Canadian suggested retail is $34.95 (softcover) and $9.99 (Kindle) for each volume. Volume 1 – Purchase Now (ISBN 978-1786772640 (Softcover); ISBN 978-1786772657 (Kindle)) TSPM is also available from Canadian Booksellers who would be happy to receive your business. Before visiting, you should confirm store hours and whether TSPM is a stocked title or one that must be ordered for you. Volume 2 – Purchase Now (ISBN 978-1786772664 (Softcover); ISBN 978-1786772671 (Kindle)) About the Author Cultural historian Anton Wagner discovered the influence of Mackenzie King’s interest in Spiritualism during research about King’s dealings with Canadian and international artists. Well beyond the scope of his dissertation (PhD, York University, 2014), Wagner returned to King’s decade-long pursuit of spirit communication during the 2020 pandemic lockdown when hospitalizations and deaths from the Covid-19 virus were reported daily, and the possibility of sudden death seemed closer. Praise for The Spiritualist Prime Minister Extracts from The Spiritualist Prime Minister endorsements. For full text, see back cover of Volume 1 and Volume 2 “The Spiritualist Prime Minister sets a bar that few future biographers will be able to match when dealing with the esoteric exploits of a public figure.” – Stanley Krippner, PhD, co-author, Personal Mythology: The Psychology of Your Evolving Self “Anton Wagner extends the scholarship of psychic experience – a topic which has been purposefully written out of many modern histories. The Spiritualist Prime Minister adds to contemporary reassessments attesting to the significance of Spiritualism and its monumental impact on culture.” – Shannon Taggart, author, Séance “This masterly overview of the Canadian politician’s spiritual quest and his dialogues with major political figures – living and dead – about world events provides new insights that raise intriguing questions. ” – Roy Stemman, author and former editor of Psychic News “A monumental achievement in historical political biography. ” – Professor Heidi Rimke, PhD, Sociology Department, University of Winnipeg


--- [William Lyon Mackenzie King - Wikipedia] ---
William Lyon Mackenzie King (December 17, 1874 – July 22, 1950) was the prime minister of Canada for three non-consecutive terms from 1921 to 1926, 1926 to 1930, and 1935 to 1948. A Liberal, he was the dominant politician in Canada from the early 1920s to the late 1940s. With a total of 21 years and 154 days in office, he remains the longest-serving prime minister in Canadian history.
King studied law and political economy in the 1890s and later obtained a PhD, the first Canadian prime minister to have done so. In 1900, he became deputy minister of the Canadian government's new Department of Labour. He entered the House of Commons in 1908 before becoming the first federal minister of labour in 1909 under Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier. After losing his seat in the 1911 federal election, King worked for the Rockefeller Foundation before briefly working as an industrial consultant. Following the death of Laurier in 1919, King won the leadership of the Liberal Party. Taking the helm of a party torn apart by the Conscription Crisis of 1917, he unified both the pro-conscription and anti-conscription factions of the party, leading it to victory in the 1921 federal election.
King established a post-war agenda which lowered wartime taxes and tariffs. He sought to strengthen Canadian autonomy by refusing to support Britain in the Chanak Crisis without Parliament's consent and negotiating the Halibut Treaty with the United States without British interference. His government also passed the Chinese Immigration Act, 1923, which banned most forms of Chinese immigration to Canada. In the 1925 federal election, the Conservatives won a plurality of seats, but the Liberals negotiated support from the Progressive Party and stayed in office as a minority government. In 1926, facing a Commons vote that could force his government to resign, King asked Governor General Lord Byng to dissolve Parliament and call an election. Byng refused and invited the Conservatives to form government, who briefly held office but lost a motion of no confidence. This sequence of events triggered a major constitutional crisis, the King–Byng affair. King and the Liberals won the resulting election. Afterwards, King pursued a more independent foreign policy, including by expanding the Department of External Affairs. His government also introduced old-age pensions based on need. King's slow reaction to the Great Depression led to a defeat at the polls in the 1930 federal election.
In the 1935 federal election, King's Liberal Party returned to power in a landslide victory, defeating R.B. Bennett's Conservative government whose response to the depression was unpopular. King negotiated the 1935 Canada-United States Reciprocal Trade Agreement, nationalized the Bank of Canada, and passed the 1938 National Housing Act to improve housing affordability. His government also established the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Trans-Canada Air Lines, and the National Film Board. Days after World War II broke out, King deployed Canadian troops. The Liberals' second landslide victory in the 1940 federal election allowed King to continue leading Canada through the war. Soon after, his government signed the Ogdensburg Agreement with the United States which established the Permanent Joint Board on Defense. King oversaw the displacement and internment of Japanese Canadians on the domestic front and delayed introducing overseas conscription until late 1944 to satisfy French Canadians. He also introduced unemployment insurance and family allowances—Canada's first universal welfare program. Following the Allies' victory in 1945, King called a post-war election, in which the Liberals lost their majority government. In his final years in office, King oversaw Canada's entry into the United Nations, partnered Canada with Western nations in the deepening Cold War, introduced Canadian citizenship, and successfully negotiated Newfoundland's entry into Confederation.
King retired from politics in late 1948 and died of pneumonia in July 1950. He is best known for his leadership of Canada throughout the Great Depression and World War II, and he played a major role in developing the Canadian welfare state and establishing Canada's international position as a middle power. Meanwhile, King kept secret his beliefs in spiritualism and the use of mediums to stay in contact with departed associates, particularly with his mother, and allowed his intense spirituality to distort his understanding of Adolf Hitler throughout the late 1930s. Historian Jack Granatstein notes, "the scholars expressed little admiration for King the man but offered unbounded admiration for his political skills and attention to Canadian unity." In multiple surveys, scholars have ranked King among the top three Canadian prime ministers.




--- [The Ghosts of Politics II: William Lyon Mackenzie King] ---
It's a well known fact that Ronald Reagan, and Mary Lincoln consulted mediums on a regular basis. What may not be so well known is that at least one Canadian political figure did as well. After World War I, William Lyon Mackenzie King was upset and disturbed by the deaths of his parents, sister, brother, and a close friend. Seeking comfort, he turned to Spiritualism, and started to consult mediums and attend seances. King hoped to gain proof of an "afterlife". The 1930's saw King meet Henrietta Wriedt, an American medium, during a visit to Detroit. The next year, he was invited to the house of Mrs. Fulford, the widow of a Canadian senator. There, he experienced Mrs. Wriedt conducting Direct Voice Mediumship. Mrs. Wriedt would go on to become one of his most consulted mediums. A 1933 conversation with Dr. Thomas Glendenning Hamilton about the doctor's psychical research led King to seek more contacts in England. During the same year, King went to a seance attended by Dominion Archivist Sir Arthur George Doughty, where Table Rapping was used to communicate with spirits. Afterwards, he and his close friend Joan Patterson would conduct this form of communication in Ottawa- claiming to contact his mother, brother Max, and even former Prime Minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier. During a conversation with Lady Aberdeen, King revealed that he'd communicated with her husband (who had been Governor-General of Canada between 1893 - 1898), via knockings on a table during a seance. She informed him that she'd confirmed his spiritual existance through Automatic Writing. After a trip to the League of Nations in 1936, King went to England to visit the London Spiritualist Alliance in his continuing search for insight and reassurance about the "afterlife". Throughout the 1940's William Lyon Mackenzie King continued to consult mediums, including Lilian Bailey, Hester Dowden, Gladys Osborne Leonard, Mrs. Sharplin, and Geraldine Cummins. Spirit communication wasn't the only area of interest to Prime Minister King. He also studied dream interpretations, numerology, tea leaf reading, and the meaning of coincidences. While alive, his spiritual beliefs were known to only a small circle. Since he wanted them to remain private and personal, he shied away from most organized and public groups. He also made sure that the mediums he consulted were discreet, and respected his privacy. When his interests became known after his death, questions were raised about how much of his political career had been dependeant upon advice from beyond. One medium, Geraldine Cummins wrote that King's, "realistic and critical analysis of evidence presented by other psychic experiments" impressed her, and that he was, "far too intellegent to be credulous, and his observations on the subject were very instructive." The question of whether he relied on spirits to make political decisions was answered after it was revealed by one medium that when advised about potential problems in Asia, he remarked that he "made it a rule to ignore advice" given by spirits, "he trusted soley to his own and his advisor's judgment." In 1977, King's literary executors had several notebooks of his, where mediums recorded their responses to his questions, burnt. The remaining records were closed to until 2001. They showed however, that while Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King may not have accepted political advice from the supernatural realm, he did derive great comfort from the belief that his loved ones lived on after death.
