=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bob Barker's cause of death confirmed following Price Is Right host's ...]
Sep 6, 2023 · Bob Barker’s cause of death has been revealed. The 99-year-old former host The Price is Right gameshow was pronounced dead on 26 August at his home in Los Angeles, his publicist Roger Neal ...
URL: https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/tv/news/bob-barker-cause-of-death-b2405671.html

[Bob Barker secretly battled Alzheimer's for 'years' before his death ...]
Sep 6, 2023 · In 2013, before Barker's 90th birthday, he did a promotional video for PETA in which he spoke about Alzheimer's. "I became a vegetarian more than 30 years ago, and almost immediately felt ...
URL: https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/bob-barker-secretly-battled-alzheimers-years-before-death

[Bob Barker]
While lying in the sun on May 30, 2002, he experienced a stroke and was hospitalized; six weeks later, on July 11, Barker underwent prostate surgery.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Barker

['Price Is Right' Host Bob Barker's Cause of Death Revealed]
Sep 5, 2023 · TV personality Bob Barker — whose death at age 99 was announced on Aug. 26, just four months shy from his 100th birthday — died as a result of Alzheimer's Disease, according to his death ...
URL: https://people.com/bob-barker-cause-of-death-7965776

[Bob Barker | Mark Goodson Wiki | Fandom]
While lying in the sun on May 30, 2002, he experienced a stroke and was hospitalized; six weeks later, on July 11, Barker underwent prostate surgery. Both ...
URL: https://markgoodson.fandom.com/wiki/Bob_Barker


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bob Barker's cause of death confirmed following Price Is Right host's ...] ---
Bob Barker’s cause of death confirmed following Price Is Right host’s death aged 99 Late presenter had been living with Alzheimer’s for ‘years’, documents reveal - Bookmark - CommentsGo to comments Bob Barker’s cause of death has been revealed. The 99-year-old former host The Price is Right gameshow was pronounced dead on 26 August at his home in Los Angeles, his publicist Roger Neal announced. It has now been revealed that Barker died as a result of Alzheimer’s Disease, according to his death certificate obtained by People magazine. The document reportedly indicated that Barker had been living with the condition for “years”. Hypertension (high blood pressure), hypothyroidism and hyperlipidemia (high cholesterol) were also listed as “other significant conditions” that contributed to Barker’s death, according to People. “It is with profound sadness that we announce that the World’s Greatest MC who ever lived, Bob Barker has left us,” Neal said in his statement announcing the news. Barker retired in 2007 after hosting the hit CBS game show since 1972. During his career, Barker won 19 Daytime Emmy Awards, received an Emmy Award for Lifetime Achievement in 1999 and was inducted into the Television Academy’s Hall of Fame in 2004. “We lost a beloved member of the CBS family today with the passing of Bob Barker. During his 35 years as host of THE PRICE IS RIGHT, Bob made countless people’s dreams come true and everyone feel like a winner when they were called to ‘come on down.’,” CBS said in a statement. “In addition to his legendary 50-year career in broadcasting, Bob will be remembered as a dedicated animal rights activist. Daytime television has lost one of its most iconic stars.” Barker was known for his support of animal rights causes and donated $5m to the anti-whaling Sea Shepherd Conservation Society which named one of their ships after him. In 2013, Barker donated $1 million to move three captive elephants from the Toronto Zoo to a sanctuary in California. Watch Apple TV+ free for 7 day New subscribers only. £9.99/mo. after free trial. Plan auto-renews until cancelled. ADVERTISEMENT. If you sign up to this service we will earn commission. This revenue helps to fund journalism across The Independent. Watch Apple TV+ free for 7 day New subscribers only. £9.99/mo. after free trial. Plan auto-renews until cancelled. ADVERTISEMENT. If you sign up to this service we will earn commission. This revenue helps to fund journalism across The Independent. The presenter was born in Darrington, Washington, on 12 December 1923, and at the age of six moved to a Sioux Indian reservation in Mission, South Dakota, with his mother, Matilda, after his father died. Barker served for two years in the US Navy towards the end of World War II and then attended Drury University where he graduated with an economics degree. Barker’s own wife, Dorothy Jo Gideon, died of lung cancer in 1981 and he never remarried. “I never had any inclination to remarry. She was my wife,” he said. He said that it was his wife who was behind his fight to help animals. “She was ahead of her time. She really was. She stopped wearing fur coats before anyone was stopping. She became a vegetarian before people were becoming vegetarian. And I gradually did the same thing with her,” he said. Join our commenting forum Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies Comments


--- [Bob Barker secretly battled Alzheimer's for 'years' before his death ...] ---
Bob Barker, beloved former host of "The Price is Right," died at his home Aug. 26. At the time, it was announced Barker, who was 99, died of natural causes. Fox News Digital has confirmed he had a number of conditions that contributed to his death, namely Alzheimer's, which has been listed as his official cause of death. His death certificate, obtained by Fox News Digital, detailed that Barker had been dealing with the disease for an unspecified number of years, and that hypertension, hypothyroidism and hyperlipidemia also contributed to his death. "Up until several months before his passing, Bob Barker routinely participated in conversation and bedside exercises," his girlfriend of 40 years, Nancy Burnet, told Entertainment Tonight. When sharing the news of Barker's death with Fox News Digital, his longtime publicist, Roger Neal, shared that Burnet was the co-executer of Barker's estate and that she had acted as his caregiver and "kept him thriving and healthy for many years." "I can't stress enough the great care that Nancy took of him," Neal told ET. "It was around the clock. The fact that he got to stay in his home — the same house since the 1950s — to be able to live there his whole adult life and be able to be at home when he passed, I think it was very fortunate. "The last five years of his life she was completely devoted to making sure that his health care, that his care on a daily, around-the-clock basis, was the top. In my opinion, [Nancy] is a saint for having done that. I don't think anybody could have done the job she's done. I think she was the absolute best person to take care of him." In 2013, before Barker's 90th birthday, he did a promotional video for PETA in which he spoke about Alzheimer's. "I became a vegetarian more than 30 years ago, and almost immediately felt healthier, and I had more energy. But being vegetarian doesn't just help your body; it also helps your mind," he said in the video. "Studies show that the more meat you eat, the greater your risk is of developing Alzheimer's disease. "So, to protect your memory, go vegetarian, and keep your wits about you until a ripe old age." Although Barker was best known for hosting "The Price is Right," his career began in radio. He started hosting a local radio show while attending college in Missouri, then moved to Florida and took on a job as a news editor and announcer for a station there. Shortly after, he moved to Los Angeles, where he hosted his own radio program, "The Bob Barker Show." From 1956 to 1975, Barker hosted the game show "Truth or Consequences." In 1972, he took on the job of hosting the revival of another game show that originated in the '50s, "The Price is Right." CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER In June 2007, the last episode featuring Barker aired. He retired, and Drew Carey took over that October. Barker made a handful of appearances on the popular show in the following years, the last airing in April 2015. Barker was married to his high school sweetheart, Dorothy Jo Gideon, from 1945 until her death in 1981. Two years later, he began dating Burnet, although their relationship has been described as a tad untraditional. After his passing, Burnet revealed to People that when they began dating, they agreed that they never wanted to marry. "But as the years went by, he proposed to me many times. I just said, 'I just don't want to be married.' Our humor was very dry. We kidded in a way. And he said, 'Not even to me?' And I said, 'Especially not to you.'" she said. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP Barker's publicist has said there will be no funeral or memorial service at the legendary host's request, and Barker will be buried beside Gideon at Forest Lawn Memorial Cemetery in Los Angeles.


--- [Bob Barker] ---
Robert William Barker (December 12, 1923 – August 26, 2023) was an American media personality, game show host, and animal rights advocate. He hosted CBS's The Price Is Right, the longest-running game show in North American television history, from 1972 to 2007. Barker also hosted Truth or Consequences from 1956 to 1975.
Born in Darrington, Washington, in modest circumstances, Barker spent most of his youth on the Rosebud Indian Reservation and was a citizen of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe. Barker joined the United States Navy Reserve during World War II. He worked part-time in radio while attending college. In 1950, Barker moved to California to pursue a broadcasting career. He was given his own radio show, The Bob Barker Show, which ran for six years. Barker began his game show career in 1956, hosting Truth or Consequences.
Barker began hosting The Price Is Right in 1972. He became an advocate for animal rights and of animal rights activism, supporting groups such as the United Activists for Animal Rights, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. In 2007, Barker retired from hosting The Price Is Right after celebrating his 50-year career on television. Regarded as a pop culture icon, Barker continued to make occasional appearances for several years into his retirement until 2015.




--- ['Price Is Right' Host Bob Barker's Cause of Death Revealed] ---
Bob Barker's Cause of Death Revealed After 'The Price Is Right' Host Dies at 99 The TV personality's death was announced on Aug. 26, just four months shy from his 100th birthday By Dana Rose Falcone Dana Rose Falcone Dana Rose Falcone is a Staff Writer covering TV at PEOPLE. She has been working at PEOPLE for seven years. Dana Rose's work has previously appeared in Entertainment Weekly, Men's Fitness and Us Weekly. People Editorial Guidelines Published on September 5, 2023 07:09PM EDT Bob Barker in 2013. Credit : Paul Archuleta/FilmMagic Bob Barker’s cause of death has been revealed. The host of The Price Is Right, who died late last month at age 99 in his Hollywood Hills home, died as a result of Alzheimer's Disease, according to his death certificate obtained by PEOPLE. The document indicated that Barker had been living with the disease for "years," though the specific time of diagnosis was not provided. Hypertension (high blood pressure), hypothyroidism and hyperlipidemia (high cholesterol) were also listed as "other significant conditions" that contributed to Barker's death, per the certificate. TMZ was first to report the news. Bob Barker on 'The Price Is Right' in 2014. courtesy CBS Wheel of Fortune's Vanna White Credits Late Bob Barker with 'Introducing Me' to the 'Game Show World' Barker had dealt with numerous health issues in recent years. In January 2019, paramedics were called to Barker's Hollywood Hills home after he fell, thought he was not hospitalized. In October 2018, Barker's manager confirmed to PEOPLE that an ambulance and the fire department came to Barker’s Hollywood Hills home in response to a "non-emergency back problem." Barker’s publicist Roger Neal confirmed the news of the 15-time Daytime Emmy winner’s death on Aug. 26. “It is with profound sadness that we announce that the World’s Greatest MC who ever lived, Bob Barker, has left us," Neal said in a statement. The TV host’s girlfriend, Nancy Burnet, also shared some words about Barker at the time. “I am so proud of the trailblazing work Barker, and I did together to expose the cruelty to animals in the entertainment industry and including working to improve the plight of abused and exploited animals in the United States and internationally," Burnet said. "We were great friends over these 40 yrs. He will be missed.” Bob Barker hosting 'The Price Is Right' season 34. Jesse Grant/WireImage CBS, where Barker hosted The Price Is Right for 35 years, honored him with a primetime tribute on Thursday. “Most people remember Bob from the 35 years he spent hosting The Price Is Right," current Price Is Right host Drew Carey said at the beginning of the special. "So it's easy to forget that for 18 years, he was a fixture in America's living rooms for Truth or Consequences, a radio host before that, and a naval aviator during World War II. We’ll also remember Bob for his tireless work on behalf of all animals from whales and elephants to the cats and dogs who reminded everybody at the end of the show to get spayed or neutered.” Carey, 65, referred to Barker as a “legend” before introducing a clip package that looked back on Barker’s career. Remembering Bob Barker's Life in Photos Never miss a story — sign up for PEOPLE's free daily newsletter to stay up-to-date on the best of what PEOPLE has to offer, from juicy celebrity news to compelling human interest stories. Barker began hosting The Price Is Right in 1972. The game show went on to became the longest-running game show in U.S. history and turned Barker into the longest-tenured game show host. "I'm often asked what I loved most about my years with Price, and the first thing that pops to mind is ... the money, of course!" Barker told PEOPLE in 2021. “All kidding aside, there was much to love. I had the pleasure of working with a dedicated and talented cast and crew for 35 great years.” Close Read more: Celebrity Celebrity Deaths Celebrity Death News


--- [Bob Barker | Mark Goodson Wiki | Fandom] ---
| Bob Barker | | |---|---| | Name | Robert William Barker | | Born | December 12, 1923 | | Place | Darrington, Washington | | Died | August 26, 2023 (aged 99) | | Place | Los Angeles, California | | Cause of Death | Alzheimer’s Disease | | Occupation | Television Personality, Game Show Host, Animal Rights Advocate | | Spouse | Dorothy Jo Gideon (1945-1981) | Robert William Barker or Bob Barker (born December 12, 1923; died August 26, 2023) is a retired American television game show host. He is known for hosting CBS's The (New) Price is Right from 1972 to 2007, making it the longest-running daytime game show in North America television history. He is also known for hosting Truth of Consequences from 1956 to 1974. Born in Darrington, Washington, to modern circumstances, Barker enlisted in the United States Navy during World War II. He worked part-time in radio while he attended college. In 1950, he moved to California in order to pursue a career in broadcasting. He was given his own radio show, The Bob Barker Show, which ran for six years. Barker began his game show hosting career in 1956, hosting Truth or Consequences. From there, he hosted various game shows, and the Miss USA pageants from 1967 to 1987, giving him the distinction of being the longest-serving host of these pageants. He began hosting The Price is Right in 1972. When his wife Dorothy Jo died, he became an advocate for animal rights and of animal-rights activism, supporting groups such as the United Activists to Animal Rights and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. In 2007, he retired from hosting The Price is Right after celebrating his 50-year career on television and was later proceeded by comedian/actor Drew Carey. Early Life[] Barker was born on December 12, 1923, in Darrington, Washington, and spent most of his youth on the Rosebud Indian Reservation in Mission, South Dakota. The U.S. Indian Census Rolls, 1885-1940, list Barker as on official member of the Sioux tribe. His mother, Matilda ("Tillie") Valandra (nee Matilda Kent Tarleton) was a school teacher; his father, Byron John Barker, was the foreman on the electrical high line through the state of Washington. Barker is 1/8 Sioux. While in Washington, his father fell from a tower and sustained an injury which resulted his death in 1930. Barker has a half-brother, Kent Valandra, from Matilda's subsequent remarriage. In 1931, the family moved to Springfield, Missouri, where Barker graduated from Central High School in 1941. Barker attended Drury College (now Drury University) in Springfield, on a basketball scholarship. He was a member of the Epsilon Beta chapter of Sigma Nu fraternity at Drury. On the outbreak of World War II, Barker served in the United States Navy as a fighter pilot. However, the war ended before he was assigned to a seagoing squadron. After the war, he returned to Drury to finish his education, graduating summa cum laude with a degree in economics. Career[] Broadcasting Career[] While attending college in Druary, Barker worked his first "media job" at KTTS-FM Radio, in Springfield. He and his wife left Springfield and moved to Lake Worth, Florida, and he was news editor and announcer at nearby WWPG 1340 AM in Palm Beach, (now WPBR in Lantana). In 1950, Barker moved to California in order to pursue a career in broadcasting. He was given his own radio show, The Bob Barker Show, which ran for the next six years in Burbank. He was hosting an audience-participation radio show on KNX (AM) in Los Angeles when game show producer Ralph Edwards happened to be listening and liked Barker's voice and style. Game Show Career[] Truth or Consequences (1956-1974)[] Barker stared hosting Truth or Consequences on December 31, 1956, and continued with the program until 1974. The idea was to mix the original quiz element of game shows with wacky stunts. On the show, people had to answer a trivia question correctly (usually an off-the-wall question that no one will be able to answer correctly) before "Beulah the Buzzer" was sounded. If the contestant did not complete the "Truth" portion, there was a "consequences", usually a zany and embarrassing stunt. If the contestant answered the question, invariably, the question had a second part. In addition, during Barker's run as host. "Barker's Box" was played. Barker's Box was a box with four drawers in it. If a contestant was able to pick all three drawers with money inside before picking the empty drawer, they won a bonus prize. It was on Truth or Consequences that the salute became his trademark sign-off; he ended each episode with "Bob Barker saying goodbye, and hoping all your consequences are happy ones!" End of the Rainbow (1957-1958)[] On December 4, 1957, Barker began hosting a new Ralph Edwards creation, End of the Rainbow for NBC. On this show (similar to Barker's Truth or Consequences and Edwards' This is Your Life) he and co-host Art Baker went out to various places in America and surprised the less-fortunate who helped others when they could barely help themselves. For example, the first episode featured a Minneapolis grocer who, in return for his community service, was given a complete makeover to his store plus new furniture and appliance for his home. In addition, his landlord (who was in on the surprise) announced that the current month's rent and that the grocer's rent would never increase. The Family Game (1967)[] In 1967, Barker hosted the short-lived game show The Family Game for Chuck Barris, where he based children contestants questions about their families' lives, and the parents had to guess how they answered , similar to The Newlywed Game. Simon Says (1971)[] In 1971, Barker was tapped to host a pilot for NBC entitled Simon Says, which required him to interact with a giant computer called "Simon" in Let's Make A Deal-style "trades". The pilot was produced by Wesley J. Cox of DUNDAS Productions, and its theme was "The Savers" (the theme used on The Joker's Wild, which has led some to believe that Cox or DUNDAS was an alias for Jack Barry or Dan Enright, since Joker used the theme in its original 1968 pilot). There is at least one (somewhat low-quality) clip of the pilot on the video sharing website YouTube. That's My Line (1980-1981)[] In 1980, Barker hosted a reality series called That's My Line for Goodson-Todman. The series was not a game show, but rather a program along the lines of Real People and That's Incredible! The show's second season in 1981 focused on unusual stuns, and was cancelled in September. The Price is Right (1972-2007)[] In early 1972, Mark Goodson and Bill Todman began shopping a modernize version of The Price is Right to stations, with Dennis James as host. CBS expressed interest in the series, on one condition: instead of James, Barker would be installed as host. After some initial resistance. Barker instead offered to host another upcoming CBS game show, Jack Barry's The Joker's Wild (which had difficulty finding a host and was scheduled to debut the same day as Price on CBS, James hosting the weekly nighttime Price in syndication and Jack Barry himself (first on trial basis, then eventually permanently) hosting Joker's. On September 4, 1972, Barker began hosting the CBS revival of The Price is Right. In the 35 years of the CBS version, Barker became far more associated with the series than first host Bill Cullen was with the 1956-65 original. When James' contract for the nighttime Price expired without being renewed in 1977, Barker assumed hosting duties for three nighttime seasons as well, with the nighttime series eventually ending in 1980. On October 15, 1987, Barker did what other MCs almost never did then: renounced hair dye and began wearing his hair gray, which was its natural color by that time. Fellow hosts Monty Hall, Alex Trebek and Richard Dawson did the same in the late 1980s. Barker took over the role of executive producer for the show in 1988, following the death of the original executive producer Frank Wayne. In his capacity, Barker created several pricing games, instituted a prohibition on foreign cars and animal-based products and launched a prime-time series of specials known as The Price is Right $1,000,000 Spectacular. In September 2006, The Price is Right marked its 35th consecutive year on the air. It is the longest-running game show of all time in North America, and at the time was the last surviving show in the daytime game show genre, having survived (at the time) twelve years after its last competitor had been cancelled. (CBS later revived daytime game shows in 2009.) Overall, in daytime programming (excluding Saturday and Sunday), The Price is Right is ranked sixth among the longest-continuing daytime television programs (NBC's Today ranks the longest, followed by four daytime soap operas: Guiding Light, As the World Turns, General Hospital and Days of Our Lives) It has won its time slot (11:00 a.m. Eastern) for the past 25 years with its closest competitor (currently ABC's The View) normally getting about half of TPIR's ratings. On October 31, 2006, Barker made his announcement that he would retire from The Price is Right in June 2007. He taped his final episode on June 6, 2007, with the show airing twice on June 15. The first airing was in the show's normal daytime slot and the second October 12, 2007. On July 23, it was announced that comedian Drew Carey would take Barker's place as the new host for the show beginning on October 15, 2007. During Barker's tenue as host, three pricing games were introduced that used his name: Barker's Bargain Bar, Barker's Marker's, Barker's Markers and Trader Bob. Of the three, the latter two are no longer being played on the show - Trader Bob was retired from the show in 1985, Barker's Markers was renamed Make Your Mark following Barker's retirement, and subsequently retired in 2008, and Barker's Bargain Bar has been retooled as the Bargain Game after a four-year hiatus between 2008 and 2012. After his retirement, Barker made three return appearances to The Price is Right. He first appeared on the episode that aired on April 16, 2009 to promote his new autobiography Priceless Memories. He appeared in the Showcase round at the end of the show. Barker made another guest appearance on the show to celebrate his 90th birthday celebration, which aired on December 12, 2013. He announced a contestant for the first time ever on the show, along with one showcase. Barker also made a surprise appearance on April 1, 2015 for an April Fools' Day where he took Drew's place at the show's intro. He hosted the first one bid and pricing game of that day before handing the hosting duties back to Drew. He also appeared during the showcase of that episode. Personal Life[] Barker married his high school sweetheart, Dorothy Jo Gideon, on January 12, 1945. They remained married for 36 years until her death, on October 19, 1981, from lung cancer. They had no children, and Barker has not remarried. However, he was involved in a relationship with Price model Dian Parkinson from 1989 to 1991, which ended in legal action. Health[] Barker has had some minor health problems. Around 1982, he had a herniated disc and sciatica. Greater health problems began in 1991 after he complained of vision problems while exercising. After a visit to his doctor, he was sent to see a neurologist, who told Barker he had a mild stroke. He recovered and went back to work. On September 16, 1999, Barker was in Washington, D.C. to testify before Congress regarding HR 2929; the Captive Elephant Accident Prevention Act, the proposed legislation that would ban elephants from traveling shows (i.e. circuses). While preparing for the presentation, Barker experienced what he called "clumsiness" in his right hand. He was admitted to George Washington University Hospital and diagnosed with a partially blocked left carotid artery. Barker underwent carotid endarterectomy to remove the blockage. The procedure went well enough that he was able to return to work within the month. Three years later, Barker had two additional health crises after taping the 30th-season finale of The Price is Right. While lying in the sun on May 30, 2002, he experienced a stroke and was hospitalized; six weeks later, on July 11, Barker underwent prostate surgery. Both hospitalizations occurred at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C. Both surgeries were successful. Barker has had several mild bouts with skin cancer, a result of his frequent tanning. He consults a dermatologist regularly to make sure any cancers are caught and removed before they spread; they do not currently pose a threat to his life. During a televised interview, Barker told viewers, "I urge anyone who has spent some time in the sun, whether you're doing it now or not, go to a dermatologist once a year". On October 20, 2015, two police officers passing Barker's Los Angeles-area home saw him trip and fall on the sidewalk. They called an ambulance that brought him to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, where he received stitches for an injured forehead and was released; he also hurt his left knee. Barker slipped and hit his head at home on June 19, 2017. His maid drove him to the emergency room, where he was checked and released. His representative said it was not as serious as his earlier fall. In October and November 2018, he was rushed to the hospital for severe back pain. Death[] On August 26, 2023; Barker died from natural causes at his home in Hollywood Hills at the age of 99. He will be interred alongside his wife at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Hollywood Hills. Lawsuits[] In 1994, former model Dian Parkinson filed a lawsuit against Barker alleging sexual harassment following a three-year affair while working on The Price is Right. Parkinson, who alleged that she was extorted by threats of firing, later dropped her lawsuit, claiming the stress from the ordeal was damaging her health. In 1995, model Holly Hallstrom left The Price is Right and later filled suit against Barker for wrongful termination and malicious persecution claiming Barker had a launched a media attack against her, allegedly stating that she was disruptive to the working atmosphere of the show. Barker dropped his case, but Hallstrom did not, finally ending in settlement in 2005. Following their testimonies in Barker's failed lawsuit against Hallstrom, models Janice Pennington and Kathleen Bradley were filed, and later received out-of-court financial settlements. Director Paul Alter was removed from the show in 2000. Production assisstants Sherill Paris and Sharon Friem, who were also dismissed at the same time, each sued Barker for wrongful termination, as well as sexual harassment and sex discrimination. Both women ultimately received financial settlements. In October 2007, Deborah Curling, a CBS employee assigned to The Price is Right filled a lawsuit against CBS, Bob Barker and The Price is Right producers, claiming that she was forced to quit her job after testifying against Barker in wrongful-termination lawsuit brought by a previous show producer. Curling claimed that she was demoted to an "intolerable work environment" backstage which caused her to leave the job. Curling, who is black, also alleged that the show's producers, including Barker, created a hostile work environment in which black employees and contestants were discriminated against. A few months later, Barker was removed from the lawsuit, and in September 2009, the lawsuit was dismissed Curling's attorney stated that he planned to appeal the dismissal of the lawsuit. In January 2012, the California Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal. Animal Rights[] Barker became a vegan in 1979. That same year, he began promoting animal rights. He was named national spokesman for "Be Kind to Animal Week" in May 1985. On A&E's Biography program, he credited his wife, Dorothy Jo, with causing him to become more aware of animal rights and to become a vegetarian, because she had done so. Bob remarked that Dorothy Jo was way ahead of her time in recognizing the rights of animals and that shortly after her death in October 1981 he took up animal rights in order to keep doing something that she has done. Barker began ending some episodes (later every episode) of The Price is Right with the phrase: "This is Bob Barker reminding you to help control the pet population -- have your pets spayed or neutered". After Barker retired, Drew Carey continued his signature sign-off advocating neutering. Fellow game-show hosts Jack Barry and Bert Convy eventually followed Barker's lead in promoting animal rights on the air. Barker hosted the Miss USA/Universe Pageants from 1967 to 1987. In 1987, he requested the removal of fur prizes and stepped down as host when those in charge of the pageant refused. Barker's DJ&T Foundation, founded in 1994 and named after his late wife and mother, has contributed millions of dollars for animal neutering programs and to fund animal rescue and park facilities all over the United States. He worked closely with Betty White as an advocate for animal rights. However, in 2009, reports indicated that Barker threatened to not attend the 2009 Game Show Awards, where he was to received a lifetime achievement award, because White would be attending. The reason for the conflict according to the report, was over the proper treatment of an elephant at the Los Angeles Zoo. White instead did not attend and pre-record her comments that she was scheduled to make about Mark Goodson. In 2004, Barker donated $1 million to Columbia University School of Law to support the study of animal rights. The gift has funded an adjunct professorship in animal rights law at Columbia and helped fund a student clinic in environmental law. Barker also supported United Activists for Animal Rights, and together with the group, publicly accused several media projects and the American Humane Association of animal mistreatment or the condoning of animal mistreatment, a tactic which resulted in a major lawsuit against him and the group, accusing him of spurious allegations. In June 2009, Barker wrote Chef Mitchell Hicks of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians asking that their reservation's bear exhibit be closed. On July 28, 2009, he visited the reservation and saw one of the three zoos, calling the bears' living situation "inhumane". PETA set up the visit after Barker heard from U.S. Representative Bill Young, (R) Florida, who has been "appalled" by what she saw. Annette Tarnowski, the tribe's attorney general, said a federal inspector had found nothing wrong in May 2009 at two of the zoos, and that the tribe had dealt with the few violations at the third. Hicks made no promises and threatened to ban PETA if they made more trouble. In January 2010, Sea Shepherd Conservation Society announced that it had secretly purchased and outfitted a ship to interdict Japanese whaling operations in the Southern Ocean using $5,000,000 provided by Barker. The ship was then named the MY Bob Barker, and its existence was first revealed when it helped discovered the location of the Japanese whaling fleet. In 2010, Barker began funding the cost of a helicopter, named the Nancy Butler (after the president of United Activists for Animal Rights); the helicopter accompanies the society's fleet. In March 2010, PETA announced that it received a $2.5 million donation from Barker to help establish a new office called the Bob Barker in Los Angeles. PETA officially opened the bob Barker Building on Sunset Boulevard in 2012. The Grand Opening was attending by Christian Serratos, Stephanie Pratt, Moby, Kate del Castillo, Sasha Grey, Renee Olstead, Fivel Stewart, Diane Warren and Allisyn Ashley Arm. Film and other TV appearances[] In 1996, Barker played himself in the Adam Sandler comedy Happy Gilmore. In one scene, Barker beats up Gilmore after an altercation arising from the teaming up in a Pro-Am Golf Tournament. In 2007, during a CBS prime-time special commemorating Barker's career, the fight scene from Happy Gilmore was shown, after which, Sandler made a surprise appearance on stage to read a poem paying tribute to Barker. In 2015, during Comedy Central's "Night of Too Many Stars" benefit show for autism, Barker and Sandler reunited for a video featuring the two of them in follow-up fight at the hospital, which ends with both of them dying and going to heaven. In the late 1990s, Barker played the father of Mel Harris' character on a few episodes of the NBC sitcom Something So Right. He appeared in two animated television series as himself on Futurama episode "The Lesser of Two Evils" in 2000, followed by the Family Guy episodes "Screwed the Pooch" in 2001, "The Fat Guy Strangler" in 2005 and "Tales of a Third Grade Nothing" in 2008. Barker was a semi-regular panelist on the game shows Tattletales (with wife Dorothy Jo) and Match Game. Barker sat in Richard Dawson's former place during the first week of Dawson's permanent absence from Match Game. Barker also played on The Price is Right team against The Young and the Restless on Family Feud in 1991 and 1993. Barker co-hosted CBS' coverage of the Rose Parade from Pasadena, California for several years during the 1970s and 1980s. He created and hosted The Bob Barker Fun and Games Show, which was a combination of stunt participation in the style of Truth or Consequences and pricing games such as The Price is Right in which he traveled throughout the United States and Canada in various arenas and venues. Events took place from 1978 to 1986. In the 1970s, he was host of the annual/biennial Pillsbury Bake-Off (the bake-off occurred every two years starting in 1976). In 1978, he was the first host to have a male category champ. He was guest host on The Tonight Show in 1996, when he was a regular on NBC hosting Truth or Consequences. He appeared on Bonanza, playing a character named Mort in the 1960 episode "Denver McKee". He has appeared on various talk shows such as: Dinah!, Larry King Live, The Arsenio Hall Show, Crook & Chase, Donny & Marie, The Rosie O'Donnell, The Ellen DeGeneres Show, The Wayne Brady Show, the Late Show with David Letterman and The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson. Barker also made cameo appearances on The Nanny, The Bold and the Beautiful in 2002 and 2014, Yes, Dear, and How I Met Your Mother with announcer Rich Fields in 2007. About one year after retirement, Barker appeared in a public service announcement promoting the transition to digital television in the United States. The advertisement was produced under the first proposed date of February 16, 2009 for the transition. On September 7, 2009, Barker was a special guest host for WWE Raw (called The Price is Raw) in Rosemont, Illinois. Barker agreed to be a rotating guest co-host on The Huckabee Show, a daily TV talk show hosted by Mike Huckabee. Barker first appeared on the show July 29, 2010. Barker appeared in a commercial for State Farm Insurance's "Magic Jingle" campaign, where he made "a new car!" appeared for a woman whose previous car was totaled by a giant concrete cylinder. Barker filmed a TV advertisement endorsing David Jolly, a candidate for the Republican Party nomination for the special election in his Congressional district. Barker voiced the character Bob Barnacle a snail business owner on the Nickelodeon animated series SpongeBob Squarepants. Awards and Honors[] 19-time Emmy Award winner - 14 individual awards for Outstanding Game Show Host - five Outstanding Game Show awards as host/executive producer of The Price is Right. 1999 Lifetime Achievement Award for Daytime Television "Bob Barker Studio" at CBS Television City named in his honor. Television Hall of Fame (class of 2004). Star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame Hall of Famous Missourians (class of 2007) Portion of Bower Street in Springfield, MO renamed "Bob Barker Way" Time Magazine's Greatest Game Show Host of All-Time NAB Broadcasting Hall of Fame (class of 2008) GSN Lifetime Achievement Award 2009 WWE Slam Award for Best Raw Guest Host. Autobiography[] Bob Barker has written his autobiography, assisted by former L.A. Times book review editor Digby Diehl, titled Priceless Memories. It was published on April 6, 2009, and features stories from his early life as well as stories and experiences in the 50 years of his television career. It was also then reported that Barker would appear on The Price is Right to promote his book. His initial appearance was scheduled for the March 2, 2009, taping, however, the taping was postponed until March 25, due to host Drew Carey's bout with pneumonia. The episode aired on April 16, during which Barker appeared during the Showcases to promote the book. Carey stated in an interview that the show stopped tapping for over an hour as the crowd continued to give Barker a standing ovation, and to allow the audience to ask questions about what Barker was doing during his retirement. Bob Barker: Master of Ceremonies[] On December 7, 1999; the A&E series Biography did a documentary episode about Barker where it recalls his decision to quit as host of both the Miss Universe and Miss U.S.A. pageants including a sexual harassment against him that was being filed by former TPIR model Dian Parkinson in 1994. Price is Right Comeback Visits[] Barker has made return visits to The Price is Right on three separate occasions. The first such time was in April of 2009 when he made a special showcase cameo to promote his memoir, Priceless Memories and gave out copies to the studio audience. His second visit came in December 2013, when the show honored him by celebrating his 90th birthday as that entire week of shows were dubbed "Pet Adoption Week". He also got to call down a contestant to Contestant's Row and presented a showcase of his very own and both he and Drew did his closing plug verbatim. Barker's third and final visit came on April 1, 2015 as an April Fool's Day surprise, he came out in place of Drew Carey (as announcer George Gray, even said "Drew Carey" in Barker's place, to keep up with the April Fools Day tradition) to start the show as the audience went berserk and then conducted the first game of the day, Lucky Seven in which a contestant won an SUV. Afterwards, Barker mentioned that when the audience gave him a "wonderful welcome" when he came out, he advised everyone to give "another wonderful welcome, for the guy you came to see; the star of The Price is Right Drew Carey". Carey then remarked that it was the "best April Fool's Day ever". Later in the show, Barker took part in the showcase. When he was asked about how he got to the studio in the past, he then says that he got there, in his "new Cadillac". When it was time to say goodbye Drew gave the privilege to say his spay-neuter plug. Due to Barker having a couple of health problems that caused him to go to Cedars-Sinai hospital as his first was an increased level of pain while his second was for an emergency back injury at his home. On December 12, 2018; during the second showcase, a picture of Barker appeared on a video screen where model Rachel Reynolds presented a three-tier cake with the number 95 on top of it as the celebration of his 95th birthday. Additionally, Barker was also on Skype as well. On December 12, 2019; current host (and Barker's replacement) Drew Carey briefly acknowledge Barker's 96th birthday at the top of the episode. On December 12, 2022; The Price is Right's official Twitter page[1]acknowledges his 99th birthday. The Price is Right: The Barker Era[] On December 1, 2020; Pluto TV and Fremantle's Buzzr has teamed up to release a channel called The Price is Right: The Barker Era where it mainly focused on airing classic episodes of The Price is Right hosted by Barker from the 1980s. Goodson-Todman Shows Hosted[] The Price is Right (1972-2007) That's My Line (1980-1981) Goodson-Todman Shows Appeared[] I've Got a Secret (1972) Tattletales (1976) Match Game (1979) Match Game PM (1975-1980) TV's Funniest Game Show Moments (1984) TV's Funniest Game Show Moments #2 (1985) Family Feud (1991/1993) Bob Barker: Master of Ceremonies (Documentary 1999) Links[] Top Ten Signs Bob Barker is Sick and Tired of Hosting The Price is Right Bob Barker, Longtime Host of 'The Price is Right' is Dead at 99
