=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project - An art project through which people can ...]
Through the process, Miyajima had conceived an art project called "Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project" and launched the Executive Committee. In 1996, the first planting of the project took place at the former Ryuhoku Elementary School. Miyajima himself conducted a workshop at the tree-planting ceremony.
URL: https://kakitreeproject.com/english/

[The Beginning - Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project]
Through the process, Miyajima had conceived an art project called "Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project" and launched the Executive Committee. In 1996, the first planting of the project took place at the former Ryuhoku Elementary School. Miyajima himself conducted a workshop at the tree-planting ceremony.
URL: https://kakitreeproject.com/english/?page_id=5385

[Partnerships and Projects - larosadei4venti]
Through the process, Miyajima had conceived an art project called "Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project" and launched the Executive Committee. In 1996, the first planting of the project took place at the former Ryuhoku Elementary School. Miyajima himself conducted a workshop at the tree-planting ceremony.
URL: https://www.larosadei4venti.com/partnerships-and-projects/

[Tatsuo Miyajima - Wikipedia]
Through the process, Miyajima had conceived an art project called "Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project" and launched the executive committee. In 1996, the first planting of the project took place at the former Ryuhoku Elementary School. Miyajima himself conducted a workshop at the tree-planting ceremony. [9]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tatsuo_Miyajima

[Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project - The School of Arts of University of ...]
The "Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project" is an international art project started in 1996 by renowned Japanese contemporary artist Tatsuo Miyajima, in collaboration with tree healer Dr Masayuki Ebinuma, who rescued seeds from the fruit of a kaki tree that survived the nuclear bombing of Nagasaki.
URL: https://au.ung.si/en/portfolio-item/revive-time-kaki-tree-project/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project - An art project through which people can ...] ---
The "Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project" is an art project through which people can learn about peace and the importance of life. kaki tree in Nagasaki miraculously survived the atomic bombing in 1945. The purpose of our project is to hand out saplings from the mother tree to children around the world and encourage them to express themselves through art with a theme of a kaki tree as they grow the saplings. Art cultivates the imagination to help us feel others' pain and creativity to build a new world. It goes beyond borders, religion, race and even language, and helps us feel sympathy for each other. We have been carrying out the project around the globe for 25 years, and planted the seeds of art, the seeds of peace into the hearts of 30,000 children who have taken part.


--- [The Beginning - Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project] ---
On the 9th of August, 1945, an atomic bomb was dropped in Nagasaki. Tens of thousands of people died suffering from the intense blast and heat, and the city of Nagasaki was reduced to ashes. However, there was a kaki tree which miraculously survived while more than half of the trunk was burnt black, and barely standing and about to die at any moment. In 1994, Masayuki Ebinuma, an arborist, started to treat the fragile tree and restored its health as to be able to produce “seedlings” from the bombed tree. Then Ebinuma started to hand out the “saplings” from the survivor tree to children who visited Nagasaki as a symbol of peace. After contemporary artist Tatsuo Miyajima learned Ebinuma’s activity, he wanted to support Ebinuma as an artist. So then he displayed the saplings and recruited foster parents at an art exhibition in 1995. They received ten applications and selected the former Ryuhoku Elementary School in Taito-ku, Tokyo as a planting site. Through the process, Miyajima had conceived an art project called “Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project” and launched the Executive Committee. In 1996, the first planting of the project took place at the former Ryuhoku Elementary School. Miyajima himself conducted a workshop at the tree-planting ceremony. Through the process, Miyajima had conceived an art project called “Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project” and launched the Executive Committee. In 1996, the first planting of the project took place at the former Ryuhoku Elementary School. Miyajima himself conducted a workshop at the tree-planting ceremony.


--- [Partnerships and Projects - larosadei4venti] ---
The “Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project” On the 9th of August, 1945, an atomic bomb was dropped in Nagasaki. Tens of thousands of people died suffering from the intense blast and heat, and the city of Nagasaki was reduced to ashes. However, there was a kaki tree which miraculously survived while more than half of the trunk was burnt black, and barely standing and about to die at any moment. In 1994, Masayuki Ebinuma, an arborist, started to treat the fragile tree and restored its health as to be able to produce “seedlings” from the bombed tree. Then Ebinuma started to hand out the “saplings” from the survivor tree to children who visited Nagasaki as a symbol of peace. After contemporary artist Tatsuo Miyajima learned Ebinuma’s activity, he wanted to support Ebinuma as an artist. So then he displayed the saplings and recruited foster parents at an art exhibition in 1995. They received ten applications and selected the former Ryuhoku Elementary School in Taito-ku, Tokyo as a planting site. Through the process, Miyajima had conceived an art project called “Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project” and launched the Executive Committee. In 1996, the first planting of the project took place at the former Ryuhoku Elementary School. Miyajima himself conducted a workshop at the tree-planting ceremony. The “Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project” is an art project through which people can learn about peace and the importance of life. The purpose is to hand out saplings from the mother tree to children around the world and encourage them to express themselves through art with a theme of a kaki tree as they grow the saplings. Art cultivates the imagination to help us feel others’ pain and creativity to build a new world. It goes beyond borders, religion, race and even language. Kaki Tree Families Spread Around the World The Project has been carried out around the globe for 20 years, and planted the seeds of art, the seeds of peace into the hearts of 30,000 children who have taken part. They are in U.S.A., France, U.K., Italy, Korea and African countries.


--- [Tatsuo Miyajima - Wikipedia] ---
Tatsuo Miyajima (宮島 達男, Miyajima Tatsuo; January 16, 1957 –) is a Japanese sculptor and installation artist who lives in Moriya, in Ibaraki prefecture, Japan. His work frequently employs digital LED counters and is primarily concerned with the function and significance of time and space, especially within the context of Buddhist thought.


--- [Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project - The School of Arts of University of ...] ---
A seedling of the bombed kaki tree from Nagasaki will be planted as a symbol of peace and proof that life always finds its way. The “Revive Time: Kaki Tree Project” is an international art project started in 1996 by renowned Japanese contemporary artist Tatsuo Miyajima, in collaboration with tree healer Dr Masayuki Ebinuma, who rescued seeds from the fruit of a kaki tree that survived the nuclear bombing of Nagasaki. The project was first presented in Europe at the Venice Biennale in 1999 and has since grown and been successfully planted in over 270 locations in 24 countries. In Nova Gorica, we will plant a descendant of the Nagasaki tree, putting the GO! 2025 area on the map of this global family. The project, which promotes peace, will further contribute to the idea of two cities with a difficult past that are ready to overcome past conflict. GO! KAKI is a project of the University of Nova Gorica School of Arts as part of the official programme of the European Capital of Culture Nova Gorica – Gorizia GO! 2025. Artistic director of GO! KAKI project prof. Rene Rusjan. PROJECT EVENTS: Kaki Bike Tour 2024: link Kamishibai – Kaki tree project: link Kaki, drevo življenja: Študent na drevesu, delavnica animacije z Milošem Tomićem // Kaki, Tree of Life: Student on the Tree, Animation Workshop with Miloš Tomić link Annual Show 2024/25 link The kaki tree of life – Planting ceremony link VIDEOS AND PUBLICATIONS OF THE PROJECT: ARTIST TALK, Tatsuo Miyjima – link The Art of Living, The Life of Art, Tatsuo Miyajima and Alexander Gadjiev in conversation – link Kaki – Tree of Life, flyer Kaki – Tree of life, main events invitation
