=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Leslie Jones to Be the Celebrity Guest Judge on Episode 4 of 'RuPaul's ...]
Mar 18, 2020 · RuPaul invited Leslie Jones to appear as a ‘Drag Race’ guest judge Once news spread of Leslie Jones’ new favorite series, RuPaul invited her personally to be a guest judge on the series.
URL: https://www.cheatsheet.com/news/leslie-jones-rupauls-drag-race-season-12.html/

[The Ball Ball]
Leslie Jones is a guest judge. "The Ball Ball". RuPaul's Drag Race episode. Episode no. Season 12. Episode 4.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ball_Ball

[The Best Guest Judges To Appear On RuPaul's Drag Race (& Why) - Screen Rant]
Most guest judges on RPDR are only featured once. However, Nicole Byer is so charming, funny, and constructive (in terms of her criticism) that she has been on the panel a whopping five times. Besides appearing on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars seasons 3 and 5, Nicole helped to judge two RPDR season 13 episodes, before returning for season 14. Nicole...
URL: https://screenrant.com/best-guest-judges-appear-rupauls-drag-race-why/

['RuPaul's Drag Race' Season 12: Leslie Jones was episode's ... - MEAWW]
Mar 21, 2020 · We need a petition to get Leslie Jones as a permanent judge on 'RuPaul's Drag Race' and fans totally agree. 'RuPaul's Drag Race' Season 12 returned on March 20 night for an all-new episode.
URL: https://meaww.com/rupauls-drag-race-season-12-episode-4-leslie-jones-judge-gigi-goode-rock-m-sakura-fan-reactions

[RuPaul's Drag Race (Season 12)]
The twelfth season of RuPaul's Drag Race was announced January 22, 2019. Casting opened that same day with a submission deadline of March 1st and later it ...
URL: https://rupaulsdragrace.fandom.com/wiki/RuPaul%27s_Drag_Race_(Season_12)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Leslie Jones to Be the Celebrity Guest Judge on Episode 4 of 'RuPaul's ...] ---
Leslie Jones to Be the Celebrity Guest Judge on Episode 4 of ‘RuPaul’s Drag Race’ Season 12 Start your engines, RuPaul’s Drag Race fans. After years of waiting, Leslie Jones finally joins RuPaul on the judge’s panel for season 12 of this reality competition series. Here’s what we know about her love for this Emmy-award winning television show and the celebrities stopping by for season 12. Leslie Jones has been a fan of ‘RuPaul’s Drag Race’ for a few years If you’ve been keeping up with this Saturday Night Live actress, chances are, you’ve seen her Drag Race recap tweets from a few years ago. As Leslie Jones watched the latest season of this reality series, fans on social media felt that were watching with her. “I love watching Leslie jones watch Drag Race lmao she skipped season 7 and 8 and went straight to All-Stars 2 and didn’t know who Ginger Minj was at all,” one Twitter user said. “I just want to watch all of Leslie Jones’ Drag Race reaction videos, but I’m sitting in a Midas getting my brakes serviced among the straights,” another Twitter user wrote. The comedian first started watching during 2018 and since then, shared her appreciation for drag and the host of the series, RuPaul. RuPaul invited Leslie Jones to appear as a ‘Drag Race’ guest judge Once news spread of Leslie Jones’ new favorite series, RuPaul invited her personally to be a guest judge on the series. (RuPaul later appeared as the host of Saturday Night Live, doing skits alongside cast members Kate McKinnon and Bowen Yang.) “Leslie girl, you’ve got to get up on this show. We’ve got your seat ready, honey! You better get up on Drag Race,” RuPaul told Jones during the Access interview. “I know you watching all the show. Leslie Joooooones on the Drag Race!” Now, almost two years later, that dream is finally coming to fruition. Leslie Jones will be a guest judge on season 12 of RuPaul’s Drag Race. There, she’ll be seated alongside RuPaul herself, helping decide who will “lipsync for their life” this week. There are a few other celebrities set for their appearance on this reality television series So far, season 12 of RuPaul’s Drag Race brought Robyn and a rap written and performed by Miss Nicki Minaj herself. Other celebrity judges sashaying into this reality series include Whoopi Goldberg, Chaka Khan, Normani, Jeff Goldblum, Daisy Ridley, Thandie Newton, Rachel Bloom, Daniel Franzese, Jonathan Bennett, and Winnie Harlow. “Our producers have come up with twisted, outrageous challenges that raise the bar for all competition of reality,” RuPaul said during an interview with Entertainment Weekly. “Our celebrity guest judges are truly legendary. And this cast of queens is, dare I say, the most talented we’ve ever had. Just when you think you’ve seen it all, a fresh crop of queens arrives and blows our minds all over again.” New episodes of RuPaul’s Drag Race premiere on a weekly basis on VH1. In the meantime, fans can stream episodes of RuPaul’s Drag Race: Untucked on the WOW Presents YouTube channel.


--- [The Ball Ball] ---
"The Ball Ball" is the fourth episode of the twelfth season of the American television series RuPaul's Drag Race. It originally aired on March 20, 2020. The episode's main challenge tasks the contestants with presenting three looks in a fashion show. Leslie Jones is a guest judge.
Gigi Goode wins the main challenge. Rock M. Sakura is eliminated from the competition after placing in the bottom and losing a lip-sync contest against Brita to "S&M" by Rihanna. The corresponding episode of RuPaul's Drag Race: Untucked earned a nomination in the Outstanding Picture Editing for an Unstructured Reality Program category at the 72nd Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards.


--- [The Best Guest Judges To Appear On RuPaul's Drag Race (& Why) - Screen Rant] ---
RuPaul's Drag Race has featured hundreds of celebrity guest judges over the years, and although a few appearances have been deemed failures, there are some guests who have earned praise for being the best stars. RPDR has invited celebrities to help judge the queens since the show premiered in 2009, with season 1 including cameos from singer Michelle Williams, Robin Antin, Mike Ruiz, and Bob Mackie. Although RPDR started off on a small scale, the show has now expanded into a franchise hosted in over ten countries. While the original judging panel included RuPaul Charles, Merle Ginsburg, and Santino Rice, the main judges since RuPaul's Drag Race season 7 have been RuPaul, Michelle Visage, Ross Mathews, and Carson Kressley. During each episode, the chosen celebrity judge takes the fourth seat. However, sometimes, the show also brings in a second person to occupy a fifth spot. While there have been a few guest judges who have missed the mark in terms of critiques or authenticity, others have exceeded the queens' and viewing audiences' expectations. It takes a lot to be a great guest judge on RPDR, especially since the main judges are all known for having big personalities of their own. The celebrities who are the most highly-regarded are those who bring a perfect mix of humor, relatability, compassion, and of course, good critiques. Below are some of the best guest judges to star on RPDR, and why their appearances are considered the greatest. Nicole Byer (Seasons 13, 14, All Stars 3, & All Stars 5) Most guest judges on RPDR are only featured once. However, Nicole Byer is so charming, funny, and constructive (in terms of her criticism) that she has been on the panel a whopping five times. Besides appearing on RuPaul's Drag Race All Stars seasons 3 and 5, Nicole helped to judge two RPDR season 13 episodes, before returning for season 14. Nicole, who has hosted all six seasons of the hilarious Netflix series Nailed It!, genuinely loves the art of drag, and seems to be over the moon during her RPDR appearances. As a comedian herself, Nicole's best constructive criticism has revolved around how to find the natural humor in situations (such as when she helped judge RPDR All Stars 3's Snatch Game), and how the queens should stay true to themselves. Nicole's energy on RPDR is definitely infectious, and some RPDR fans even think that Nicole should be a permanent judge. Lady Gaga (Season 9) Lady Gaga's guest appearance on the first episode of RPDR season 9 was not just exciting and lots of fun, but extremely heartwarming. Although she introduced herself as "Ronnie" from New Jersey, the queens recognized the superstar as soon as she lifted her headpiece. While all of the queens were ecstatic to meet Lady Gaga, Eureka O'Hara was moved to tears, and explained to Lady Gaga how special the experience of meeting her really was. Lady Gaga was visibly moved by the season 9 queens' reactions, and her critiques and words of advice were practical, helpful, and very kind. When the contestants all wore their own versions of some of the pop diva Lady Gaga's best outfits, the singer was so impressed that she admitted, "I have nothing to say. I'm going to be speechless this whole time." Lady Gaga's time on RPDR was important to the show's competitors, and the fact that she personally visited the queens backstage to thank them for doing the show made her appearances even better. Miley Cyrus (Season 11) While Lady Gaga's identity was uncovered within seconds, Miley Cyrus remained anonymous a little longer by posing as a member of the RPDR season 11 production crew. Naturally, Miley's character, "BJ," didn't last long, as Silky Nutmeg Ganache immediately recognized the pop star. Not only were the season 11 queens excited to meet Miley, but she was equally excited to meet them. Miley said at one point, "I'm freaking out! I can't believe I'm here [in front of] this double mirror s***." Like other main and guest RPDR judges who have done their best to help, Miley gave the queens plenty of good advice before they hit the runway, and wished them well during their mainstage runway appearances. Although Soju and Kahanna Montrese ended up in the bottom two, their lip sync to Hannah Montana's iconic "Best of Both Worlds," was not just a fun throwback for longtime fans of Miley, but a chance for RPDR viewers to watch Miley rock out to her old song. Sheryl Lee Ralph (Season 6) Sheryl Lee Ralph, who helped to judge RPDR season 6's "Shade: The Rusical" challenge, was hilariously witty and highly perceptive, and gave some of the queens valuable advice. Sheryl's guest appearance gave off a strong motherly vibe, and it was clear that the entertainer and activist really wanted the queens to perform to the best of their abilities. When Trinity K. Bonet got defensive over her speech, for example, Sheryl told her to "Put a cork in it!" and explained that Trinity speaking with an object in her mouth would help her pronunciation. Sheryl also immediately (and correctly) guessed that Adore Delano was a former competitor on American Idol, and excitedly used Adore's catchphrase, "Party!" while judging. Sheryl was not only an entertaining guest judge, but enjoyed her time getting to know the queens on season 6. Leslie Jones (Season 12) Leslie Jones was living her best life when she appeared as a guest judge on RPDR season 12, and she accurately portrayed how every super fan of the show would react to being a part of the panel. When Leslie wasn't recording the event on her phone, and mouthing along to RuPaul's famous lines, the actress and former Saturday Night Live comedian was besides herself with excitement. She declared, "Oh my god! I'm losing my mind!" Leslie's joy was infectious to viewers at home and the season 12 queens, and although she was a judge, it was clear that she didn't want to see anyone sashay away. While Leslie enjoyed the bottom two lip sync between Rock M. Sakura and Brita, for example, she was seen encouraging Rock beforehand, "Do this s***, lets do this s***!" Joel McHale (Season 11) Joel McHale's guest appearance on RPDR season 11 was immediately praised. Fans liked his unabashed enthusiasm and genuine excitement. While Joel's invitation to join the RPDR judging panel may seem surprising for some, he has been a fan of the show (and a supporter of the LGBTQ+ community) for years. While it's customary for the RPDR judges to crack jokes and deliver witty remarks during the queen's runways, Joel took it one step further by loudly yelling for each person like he was rooting for a sporting team. Despite Michelle lecturing Joel that RPDR "is not a football game," Joel's honest reactions to the queens, coupled with the fact that he was obviously having a good time, resonated with fans everywhere. What's funnier is that that Joel stole the show despite the other guest judge being Tiffany "New York" Pollard, who is known for her own hilarious, off the cuff remarks. RuPaul's Drag Race has featured dozens of great guest judges over the years, and with season 15 in the works, fans are already speculating about who will be included in the next group of guest judges.


--- ['RuPaul's Drag Race' Season 12: Leslie Jones was episode's ... - MEAWW] ---
'RuPaul's Drag Race' Season 12: Leslie Jones was episode's saving grace and fans want her as permanent judge We need a petition to get Leslie Jones as a permanent judge on 'RuPaul's Drag Race' and fans totally agree. 'RuPaul's Drag Race' Season 12 returned on March 20 night for an all-new episode. Apart from the drama and battle between the queens, the highlight of this week was Leslie Jones and her infectious fangirling commentary and happiness we witnessed. Last week, we said goodbye to Dhalia after she was booted out from the competition. Dhalia was the first contestant to get eliminated this season. She deserved to get booted after she performed poorly in the maxi challenge and lip sync for the life challenge. Back again this week, we were disappointed to see Rock M Sakura get eliminated instead of Aiden Zhane, who did nothing but be lethargic throughout the maxi challenge. That said, fans are grateful for one thing this wee, and that was having the former SNL star as a guest judge on the show. If Leslie Jones tells you to throw away your shoes, you LISTEN! 😂 @lesdoggg @thewidowvondu #DragRace pic.twitter.com/fijlAt7edH — RuPaul's Drag Race (@RuPaulsDragRace) March 21, 2020 So far, we have had three celebrities appear as guest judges this season since it premiered but the one who tops them all was Jones. She was the original star this week. Sitting among RuPaul and the other judges, she served the best commentary of the night and didn't shy away. She also had the time of her life, laughing and having fun with the other judges as the queens sashayed down the runway with their looks. Watching her have fun during the episode is all we needed to lift our spirits up. Taking to Twitter, fans now want to see Leslie as a permanent judge on the series. "Excuse me can Leslie Jones be a permanent judge #DragRace," a fan wrote. Adding to that another said, "Petition to have Leslie Jones as a regular judge on every Drag Race episode from now on." "None of it matters where you come from, it's about what you bringing.” — RuPaul's Drag Race (@RuPaulsDragRace) March 21, 2020 Preach, @lesdoggg 💖#DragRace pic.twitter.com/slhQZIN40w "Leslie Jones is the only saving grace this episode. Make her a regular!!! #DragRace," a fan shared. Another wrote, "Leslie Jones needs to be a permanent judge. I've never laughed more watching this show. Her energy and her brute honesty is so refreshing. She's so excited about being on the show and it's the best part of the episode. #DragRace." "Leslie Jones deserves a permanent judge spot for jumping on that opportunity. #dragrace," a fan wrote. 'RuPaul's Drag Race' Season 12 airs every Friday night only on VH1. Check your local listings for more information.


--- [RuPaul's Drag Race (Season 12)] ---
Season 12 Premiere February 28, 2020 The twelfth season of RuPaul's Drag Race was announced January 22, 2019. Casting opened that same day with a submission deadline of March 1st and later it was announced that thirteen contestants would compete for the crown this season. Filming began in late July 2019 and the cast was officially revealed on January 23, 2020 on X with a pre-recorded event showcasing the queens with Yvie Oddly as the host. The promo theme was Red, White, and Blue since 2020 was an American presidential election year. At the end of each episode, queens are seen holding signs that read "Register to Vote". The winner of the twelfth season of RuPaul's Drag Race was Jaida Essence Hall, with Crystal Methyd and Gigi Goode placing as runners-up and Heidi N Closet winning Miss Congeniality. In October 2020, the season 12 cast returned for the Halloween special "Bring Back My Ghouls". About The Show The fiercest series on primetime returns to the runway on Friday, February 28th at 8:00 PM ET/PT. The highly anticipated new season brings together thirteen fabulous queens as they vie for the title of "America's Next Drag Superstar" and a cash prize of $100,000. The Emmy nominated after-show "RuPaul’s Drag Race: Untucked" will premiere immediately following at 9:30 PM ET/PT. "Untucked" will provide viewers with an all-access pass to the backstage drama as the queens anxiously await their fate and who will need to lip-sync for their life to avoid the week's elimination. Contestants (Biographical information stated from during time of contest) Rank Contestant Photo Age Location Ep. 1 Ep. 2 Ep. 3 Ep. 4 Ep. 5 Ep. 6 Ep. 7 Ep. 8 Ep. 9 Ep. 10 Ep. 11 Ep. 12 Ep. 13 Ep. 14 Rumix Improv Ball Acting SnatchGame Rusical Advert Improv MakeOver StandUp Rusical Reunion Finale 1st(Winner) JaidaEssence Hall(Group 2) 32 Milwaukee,WI WIN SAFETeamCaptain HIGH SAFE SAFE SAFE HIGH WIN WIN BTM2 HIGH RUN WINNER 2nd/3rd(Runners‑Up) CrystalMethyd(Group 1) 28 Springfield,MO SAFE LOW SAFE SAFE LOW HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH WIN BTM2 RUN RUNNERUP GigiGoode(Group 1) 21 Los Angeles,CA TOP2 SAFE WIN MiniChall.Winner HIGH WIN WIN LOW MiniChall.Winner LOW SAFE SAFE WIN MiniChall.Winner RUN RUNNERUP 4th(Disqualified) Sherry Pie(Group 2) 27 New York, NY TOP2 WIN SAFE WIN HIGH SAFE LOW SAFE HIGH LOW SAFE 5th Jackie Cox(Group 1) 34 New York, NY HIGH HIGH SAFE HIGH HIGH LOW HIGH MiniChall.Winner BTM2MiniChall.Winner BTM2 HIGH MiniChall.Winner ELIM GUEST GUEST 6th(MissCongeniality) Heidi NCloset(Group 1) 24 Ramseur,NC LOW HIGH TeamCaptain SAFE BTM2 SAFE BTM2 WIN HIGH BTM2 ELIM GUEST MISSCON 7th WidowVon'Du(Group 1) 30 Kansas City,MO WIN SAFETeamCaptain SAFE HIGH SAFE SAFE BTM2 ELIM GUEST GUEST 8th Jan(Group 2) 26 New York, NY HIGH SAFE SAFE HIGH SAFE HIGH ELIM GUEST GUEST 9th Brita(Group 1) 34 New York, NY HIGH SAFE BTM2 LOW BTM2 ELIM GUEST GUEST 10th AidenZhane(Group 2) 29 Acworth,GA HIGH SAFETeamCaptain LOW HIGH ELIM GUEST GUEST 11th Nicky Doll(Group 1) 28 New York, NY LOW BTM2 HIGH ELIM GUEST GUEST 12th Rock M.Sakura(Group 2) 28 SanFrancisco,CA LOW SAFE ELIM GUEST GUEST 13th Dahlia Sin(Group 2) 28 Los Angeles,CA LOW ELIM GUEST GUEST GUEST GUEST GUEST GUEST GUEST █ The contestant won RuPaul's Drag Race. █ The contestant was a runner-up. █ The contestant won the Maxi Challenge. █ The contestant was in the top, but did not win the Lip Sync for the Win. █ The contestant was in the top, but did not win the Maxi Challenge. █ The contestant was in the bottom, but was not up for elimination. █ The contestant was in the bottom, tied in the Lip Sync for Your Life, and no one was eliminated. █ The contestant was in the bottom and won the Lip Sync for Your Life. █ The contestant was in the bottom, lost the Lip Sync for Your Life, and was eliminated. █ The contestant appeared and did not compete, but was still in the running. █ The contestant appeared as a guest, but was out of the running. █ The contestant was voted Miss Congeniality by the contestants. Contestant's Winning Earnings Name Money Jaida Essence Hall $117,000 Crystal Methyd $7,000 Gigi Goode $25,500 Sherry Pie $10,000 Jackie Cox $5,500 Heidi N Closet $17,000 Widow Von'Du $7,000 Jan $2,000 Brita $2,000 Aiden Zhane $2,000 Nicky Doll $2,000 Rock M. Sakura $2,000 Dahlia Sin $2,000 █ The contestant was awarded $100,000 for winning RuPaul's Drag Race. █ The contestant was awarded $10,000 for winning the title of Miss Congeniality. █ Since being disqualified, VH1 and World of Wonder have matched Sherry's prize money earned with donations to The Trevor Project. Each queen present in the Grand Finale episode was awarded a $2,000 tip during the last episode, courtesy of Pantene. Episodes Series # Episode # Episode Title Airdate 146 1 I'm That Bitch February 28, 2020 147 2 You Don't Know Me March 6, 2020 148 3 World's Worst March 13, 2020 149 4 The Ball Ball March 20, 2020 150 5 Gay's Anatomy March 27, 2020 151 6 Snatch Game April 3, 2020 152 7 Madonna: The Unauthorized Rusical April 10, 2020 153 8 Droop April 17, 2020 154 9 Choices 2020 April 24, 2020 155 10 Superfan Makeover May 1, 2020 156 11 One-Queen Show May 8, 2020 157 12 Viva Drag Vegas May 15, 2020 158 13 Alone Together May 22, 2020 159 14 Grand Finale May 29, 2020 Episode 1: "I'm That Bitch" Airdate: February 28, 2020 Synopsis: Nicki Minaj guest judges the new cast of queens competing for $100,000 and the title of America's Next Drag Superstar. The first step toward the crown is having to write and perform an original rap number. Episode 1 Judges Entrance Order 1 Brita 2 Nicky Doll 3 Widow Von'Du 4 Jackie Cox 5 Heidi N Closet 6 Gigi Goode 7 Crystal Methyd Episode 2: "You Don't Know Me" Airdate: March 6, 2020 Synopsis: Thandie Newton (Westworld) and Swedish singer Robyn guest judge. And as the race for the crown continues, the queens must write and perform a Fosse-inspired jazz number. Episode 2 Judges Entrance Order 1 Rock M. Sakura 2 Dahlia Sin 3 Sherry Pie 4 Jan 5 Jaida Essence Hall 6 Aiden Zhane Episode 3: "World's Worst" Airdate: March 13, 2020 Synopsis: The queens must flex their comedy improv skills when they audition for the new TV show World's Worst - a talent show for people with little talent. Olivia Munn (X-Men: Apocalypse) guest judges. Episode 3 Judges Special Guests: Charo and Vivacious as Ornacia Guest Judge: Olivia Munn Mini Challenge: Queer-Peer Assessment Maxi Challenge: Improv in a talent competition, called "World's Worst". Runway Theme: Buttons and Bows Maxi Challenge Winner: Sherry Pie Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize which was donated to The Trevor Project Bottom Two: Dahlia Sin and Nicky Doll Lip Sync Song: "Problem" by Ariana Grande ft. Iggy Azalea Eliminated: Dahlia Sin Farewell Message: "Keep Ur Heads UP / I♡U ALL! - Dahlia ♡" World's Worst Groups Fruity Patooties(Team Jaida) 3 Girls, 1 Brain(Team Aiden) Squirrel Scouts(Team Widow) The Del Rio Triplets(Team Heidi) Dahlia Sin Aiden Zhane Crystal Methyd Gigi Goode Jaida Essence Hall Brita Nicky Doll Heidi N Closet Jan Sherry Pie Widow Von'Du Jackie Cox Rock M. Sakura Episode 4: "The Ball Ball" Airdate: March 20, 2020 Synopsis: The queens' creativity comes to life when they compete in a pageant of sports-inspired couture, and strutting the runway in three "ball-themed" looks. Leslie Jones (Saturday Night Live) guest judges. Episode 4 Judges Guest Judge: Leslie Jones Mini Challenge: "The Beehive Jive" dance competition Mini Challenge Winner: Gigi Goode Mini Challenge Prize: $2,500 cash prize and $2,500 donation in her name to Honeybees.org Maxi Challenge: Showcase three looks in The Ball Ball Runway Themes: Lady Baller, Basketball Wife Realness, and Balls to the Wall Eleganza Maxi Challenge Winner: Gigi Goode Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize Bottom Two: Brita and Rock M. Sakura Lip Sync Song: "S&M" by Rihanna Eliminated: Rock M. Sakura Farewell Message: "TO All of my special queens, Make sure you do what I couldn’t do. Love yourself, respect yourself, and remember to show the world that you care about what you believe in. I'm devastated I couldn't stay longer. But I look forward to lots of fun memories with you. Rock M. Sakura ♡ Love you all truly." Chosen sport for Lady Baller category Contestant Sport Aiden Zhane Baseball Brita Baseball Crystal Methyd Bowling Gigi Goode Croquet Heidi N Closet Golf Jackie Cox Lacrosse Jaida Essence Hall Basketball Jan Soccer Nicky Doll American football Rock M. Sakura Tetherball Sherry Pie Hammer throw Widow Von'Du Polo Episode 5: "Gay's Anatomy" Airdate: March 27, 2020 Synopsis: The queens are challenged to take part in TV's longest running drag queen scripted show, "Gay's Anatomy." Pop superstar, Normani guest judges. Episode 5 Judges Cameo Appearance: Dahlia Sin Guest Judge: Normani Mini Challenge: Pink Pill or Silver Pill: The two queens who choose the bottle with a pink pill win (This was technically not a mini challenge.) Mini Challenge Winners: Gigi Goode and Nicky Doll Mini Challenge Prize: Assigning the roles for Gay's Anatomy Maxi Challenge: Overact in Gay's Anatomy, a parody of the popular TV show Grey's Anatomy Runway Theme: Planet of the Capes Maxi Challenge Winner: Sherry Pie Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize that was donated to The Trevor Project Bottom Two: Heidi N Closet and Nicky Doll Lip Sync Song: "Heart to Break" by Kim Petras Eliminated: Nicky Doll Farewell Message: "I might have not gotten a crown / But I have a sisterhood / I ♥ U / Your French sister! (I'm still the prettier) N" Gay's Anatomy Contestant Role Who Should Go Home Tonight? Aiden Zhane Henny Brita Dr. Sandra Okurr Nicky Doll Crystal Methyd Fork Queen #2 Nicky Doll Gigi Goode Dr. Tizzy Stevens Heidi N Closet Fork Queen #1 Nicky Doll Jackie Cox Dr. Meredith Gay #1 Jaida Essence Hall Rhonda Shimes Heidi N Closet Jan Dr. Meredith Gay #2 Nicky Doll Baby Dearest Herself/Heidi N Closet Sherry Pie Dr. Mother Gay Widow Von'Du Mimi Dearest Episode 6: "Snatch Game" Airdate: April 3, 2020 Synopsis: The queens compete in the legendary Snatch Game. Mean Girls co-stars Jonathan Bennett and Daniel Franzese guest judge. Drag queen Vanessa Vanjie Mateo makes a guest appearance. Episode 6 Judges Special Guest: Vanessa Vanjie Mateo Cameo Appearance: Dahlia Sin Guest Judges: Daniel Franzese and Jonathan Bennett Maxi Challenge: Snatch Game Runway Theme: Frozen Eleganza (Inspired by the Broadway Musical, Frozen) Maxi Challenge Winner: Gigi Goode Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize Bottom Two: Aiden Zhane and Brita Lip Sync Song: "Let it Go" by Caissie Levy Eliminated: Aiden Zhane Farewell Message: "I Hope my screams were loud enough for you Bitches. You may not know me now but you sure will later ♡ Aiden Zhane" Snatch Game Episode 7: "Madonna: The Unauthorized Rusical" Airdate: April 10, 2020 Synopsis: The queens get into the groove in a Queen of Pop inspired musical. U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and supermodel Winnie Harlow guest judge. Episode 7 Judges Madonna: The Unauthorized Rusical Contestant Madonna Era Brita Cone Bra Madonna Crystal Methyd Enlightened Madonna Gigi Goode Unapologetic Madonna Heidi N Closet Madonna Forever Jaida Essence Hall Sexy Madonna Jackie Cox Boy Toy Madonna Jan Early Madonna Sherry Pie Movie Star Madonna Widow Von'Du Femmepire Madonna Episode 8: "Droop" Airdate: April 17, 2020 Synopsis: The queens must create and market ridiculously extravagant products, for the new drag queen lifestyle brand "Droop." Chaka Khan guest judges. Personal trainer Bob Harper makes a guest appearance. Episode 8 Judges Cameo Appareance: Dahlia Sin Special Guest: Bob Harper Guest Judge: Chaka Khan Mini Challenge: In pairs, curate a box of FabFitFun products for another duo, then gift it to them with shade. Mini Challenge Winners: Jackie Cox and Gigi Goode Mini Challenge Prize: $1,000 and a 1 year subscription to FabFitFun Maxi Challenge: Create and market a product for a new drag queen lifestyle brand. Runway Theme: Black Wedding / The Bride Wore Black [1] Maxi Challenge Winner: Heidi N Closet Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize Bottom Two: Jan and Widow Von'Du Lip Sync Song: "This Is My Night" by Chaka Khan Eliminated: Jan Farewell Message: "Sisters, I'm so happy I got to share this experience with you. Stay humble, grateful, & remember, you're on RuPaul's Drag Race!! I love you, Jan 💋" Droop Product Contestant Product Who Should Go Home Tonight? Crystal Methyd "Magic Mullet" Widow Von'Du Gigi Goode "Goode Night Bitch" Fragrance Sleeping Aid Widow Von'Du Heidi N Closet "Heidi's Hydrates" Multipurpose Lotion Widow Von'Du Jaida Essence Hall "Luxuratuck" Tucking Panty Widow Von'Du Jackie Cox "Jackie's Magic Carpet Merkin" Widow Von'Du Jan "Sure, Jan" Spray Widow Von'Du Sherry Pie "Sherry Pie's Aura Pie" Widow Von'Du Widow Von'Du "Throaté" Throat Coat Spray Jan Episode 9: "Choices 2020" Airdate: April 24, 2020 Synopsis: It's time for America's first drag queen president! The queens argue in a fabulous presidential debate. Actors Jeff Goldblum (Jurassic Park) and Rachel Bloom (Crazy Ex-Girlfriend) guest judge. Episode 9 Judges Cameo Appereance: Dahlia Sin Special Guest: Raven Guest Judges: Jeff Goldblum and Rachel Bloom Mini Challenge: Audition for the title of "Kitty Girl 2020" Mini Challenge Winner: Jackie Cox Mini Challenge Prize: $2,500 gift card to Fierce Drag Jewels Maxi Challenge: Compete on the political stage to become America's first drag queen president Runway Theme: Stars and Stripes Forever Maxi Challenge Winner: Jaida Essence Hall Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize Bottom Two: Jackie Cox and Widow Von'Du Lip Sync Song: "Firework" by Katy Perry Eliminated: Widow Von'Du Farewell Message: "I hope I made you PROUD KANSAS city! Remember, yes Bitch you might be! PS Heidi unlike the other girls Im[Sic] not leaving you A DAMN thing ♡ W X" Episode 10: "Superfan Makeover" Airdate: May 1, 2020 Episode 10 Judges Synopsis: The queens must makeover Drag Race superfans. But there's one thing…the superfans have no idea what's about to happen to them. Actress Daisy Ridley (Star Wars) guest judges. Guest Judge: Daisy Ridley Mini Challenge: Reading is Fundamental (unaired)[2] Mini Challenge Winner: Unknown Mini Challenge Prize: Unknown Maxi Challenge: Makeover Drag Race super fans and teach them to lip sync to "U Wear It Well" against eachother on the mainstage. Runway Theme: Drag Family Resemblance Maxi Challenge Winner: Jaida Essence Hall Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize & a $5,000 gift card for Jazz Essence Hall Bottom Two: Heidi N Closet and Jackie Cox Lip Sync Song: "Kill the Lights" by Alex Newell and DJ Cassidy ft. Nile Rodgers Eliminated: None Makeover Pairs Queen Super Fan Name Drag Name Crystal Methyd Grace Boll Opal Methyd Gigi Goode Shea Smesler Bebe Bad Heidi N Closet Nicole Blake Honey Almighty Jaida Essence Hall Bethany Akeroy Jazz Essence Hall Jackie Cox Tiffany De La Cruz Lil' Snacky Cox Sherry Pie Janet the Planet Tara Misu Episode 11: "One-Queen Show" Airdate: May 8, 2020 Episode 11 Judges Synopsis: The queens must create and perform their own solo show. Whoopi Goldberg (The View; Ghost) coaches the queens and guest judges. Cameo Appereance: Dahlia Sin Guest Judge: Whoopi Goldberg Mini Challenge: Everybody Loves Puppets Mini Challenge Winner: Jackie Cox Mini Challenge Prize: Decide the One-Queen Show's order Maxi Challenge: The queens perform in their own one woman show Runway Theme: The Color Purple Maxi Challenge Winner: Crystal Methyd Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize Bottom Two: Heidi N Closet and Jaida Essence Hall Lip Sync Song: "1999" by Prince Eliminated: Heidi N Closet Farewell Message: "Remember to stay Soft & Supple and always (Insert stolen catchphrase here). Love Heidi... Something 💋" One-Queen Show Contestant Show Jackie Cox Between Two Parents Crystal Methyd Phenomenal Phil: Exotic Dance Instructor Heidi N Closet Cookout With Your Cheeks Out Gigi Goode Welcome Aboard Brimstone Airways Sherry Pie Bubbles and Sherry Jaida Essence Hall Putting The "P" in Pageant Episode 12: "Viva Drag Vegas" Airdate: May 15, 2020 Episode 12 Judges Synopsis: The queens must perform a medley of songs from RuPaul's Drag Race Live!, a hit show on the Las Vegas strip. Choreographer Jamal Sims (Disney’s Aladdin) guest judges. Guest Judge: Jamal Sims Mini Challenge: Design an over-the-top, one-of-a-kind showgirl headdress, that screams 'Viva Drag Vegas'. Mini Challenge Winner: Gigi Goode Mini Challenge Prize: A trip for two to Las Vegas, including airfare, accommodation, and tickets to see RuPaul's Drag Race Live Maxi Challenge: Record and perform a medley of songs from RuPaul's Drag Race Live in Las Vegas Runway Theme: Eleganza Extravaganza Maxi Challenge Winner: Gigi Goode Maxi Challenge Prize: $5,000 cash prize Bottom Two: Crystal Methyd and Jackie Cox Lip Sync Song: "On The Floor" by Jennifer Lopez feat. Pitbull Eliminated: Jackie Cox Top Three of Season 12 Contestant Challenge Wins Up for Elimination 1(Ep. 11) 1(Ep. 12) 4(Eps. 4, 6, 7, 12) 0 3(Eps. 2, 9, 10) 1(Ep. 11) Episode 13: "Alone Together" Airdate: May 22, 2020 Synopsis: The 12 queens come together in a virtual slumber party to kiki about all things Season 12. Ru checks in with all the girls during quarantine and chats about the shadiest moments, most shocking eliminations and takes fan questions. The queens reunited from their homes Discussions: Aiden Zhane and Brita's beef, Rock M Sakura's heartbreaking elimination, Nicky Doll being a fan favorite, Dahlia Sin storming off after her elimination, Gigi Goode and Heidi N. Closet's beef, the queens' relationships with their families, Jan crying when Brita was sent home/being upset after she was declared safe, if Gigi Goode and Crystal Methyd are dating, the queens vote for whose team they are on for the crown. Episode 14: "Grand Finale" Airdate: May 29, 2020 Synopsis: The top 3 queens compete in a revolutionary lip sync battle for the crown. The finale boasts special celeb appearances, the announcement of Miss Congeniality and show-stopping performances. Celebrity Guest Appearances: Rachel Bloom, Daniel Franzese, Whoopi Goldberg, Adam Lambert, Dolly Parton, Kim Petras, and Robyn Past Queen Guest Appearances: Bob The Drag Queen, Monét X Change, Adore Delano, Bianca Del Rio, Scarlet Envy, Vanessa Vanjie Mateo, Peppermint, Latrice Royale, Yvie Oddly, Sasha Velour, Vivacious, and Nina West Finale Lip Sync Challenges A close-up lip-sync to Ru's new song "Bring Back My Girls". Individually produce, direct, and star in their own performance with a song of their choice. A lip sync performance to "Survivor" by Destiny's Child. Winner of RuPaul's Drag Race Season 12: Jaida Essence Hall Runners-Up: Crystal Methyd and Gigi Goode Miss Congeniality: Heidi N Closet Finale Performances Performer Song 1 Crystal Methyd "Bring Back My Girls" by RuPaul Gigi Goode Jaida Essence Hall 2 Crystal Methyd "I'm Like a Bird" by Nelly Furtado 3 Gigi Goode "Take On Me" by a-ha 4 Jaida Essence Hall "Get Up" by Ciara 5 Crystal Methyd "Survivor" by Destiny's Child Gigi Goode Jaida Essence Hall Trivia Season 12 is the first American season: With a contestant of Persian descent (Jackie Cox). With a French contestant (Nicky Doll). With a contestant of North African descent (Nicky Doll, who has Moroccan ancestry). With a contestant of Tongan descent (Brita) With a contestant who once lived in the state of Hawaii (Brita). To have only two contestants win Mini Challenges (Gigi Goode and Jackie Cox). They each won three out of the six Mini Challenges. To have a congressional representative as a guest judge (Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in Episode 7). To have a Top 2 to determinate the challenge winner. Where none of the top-five contestants landed in the Bottom 2 in the first eight episodes competing. The previous top-five holding the longest run without lip-syncing was Season 3's. Alexis Mateo lip-synced for her life after six episodes competing. To feature a Top 2 lip-sync on a regular season. Where all contestants lip-synced at least once during the season, but not all of them landed in the Bottom 2. Both contestants who never landed in the Bottom 2 (Gigi Goode and Sherry Pie) lip-synced as Top 2 queens in the split premieres. To not have a single design challenge besides the Ball. This would later be repeated on Season 13. To not have a single group challenge where the contestants ended up being judged as teams. To have the reunion and finale filmed from the contestants' homes (due to the COVID-19 pandemic). Where the contestant who appeared in the least amount of episodes (Rock M. Sakura, appearing in four episodes) is not the first contestant to go home, but the second. The first contestant out (Dahlia Sin) appeared in ten episodes out of the 14, having six cameo appearances and being safe one episode before getting sent home. Where the first contestant out appeared in more episodes than five other fellow contestants. To have five musical performances available for download/streaming, with "I'm That Bitch", "You Don't Know Me", "Madonna: The Unauthorised Rusical", "I Made It/ Mirror Song/ Losing is the New Winning (Las Vegas Live Medley)" and "The Shady Bunch". To have two contestants that never landed in the Bottom 2 not win the crown (Gigi Goode and Sherry Pie). To have both a black winner and a black Miss Congeniality (Jaida Essence Hall and Heidi N Closet). Where both the winner and Miss Congeniality lip-synced against each other before the finale. Where five consecutive Maxi Challenges were won by only two contestants (episodes 3 to 7, Gigi Goode and Sherry Pie). Season 12 is the second American season: Despite being named Maria the Robot, Gigi Goode's Snatch Game character was based on Sophia the Robot. The character's name was changed presumably to avoid copyright restrictions. According to Jackie Cox, the runway theme for the pre-season runway walk video is "Urban Streetwear with a Political/Protest vibe." [3] Jackie Cox, Nicky Doll, and Dahlia Sin are the only contestants whose individual promo photo is different from the group promo photo. Season 12 bears multiple similarities to Season 6: The premiere is split into two parts. The eventual Miss Congeniality is a part of the first group of queens. The first challenge featuring the full cast was an acting challenge. Four contestants of Season 12 are drag-related to previous Drag Race alumni: Sherry Pie was publicly announced as disqualified from Season 12 on March 6, 2020 via social media citing the "recent developments and [her] statement" from Facebook about the claim she sexually exploited several men.[4][5] However, the season had already begun airing a week prior to her disqualification, and the second part of the season premiere (which was the episode that introduced her into the Werkroom for the first time) aired as normal that evening, making her the first queen to be disqualified after already filming a season. She was banned from attending both the reunion and the finale. She is the third contestant to be disqualified from the Drag Race franchise (after Willam and Miss Gimhuay); however, she is the first contestant to be disqualified after the season had been filmed. Jaida Essence Hall and Heidi N Closet are considered to be the lip-sync assassins of Season 12. Jaida won three lip-syncs throughout the season: she defeated Sherry Pie in their Top 2 lip-sync, sent Heidi N Closet home, and won the lip-sync for the crown thus eliminating Crystal Methyd and Gigi Goode. Heidi also won three lip-syncs: she sent home Nicky Doll and Brita, and was part of a double shantay alongside Jackie Cox. Never before has a regular season winner or a Miss Congeniality been considered their season's Lip Sync Assassin, making Jaida and Heidi the first and only winners of their respective titles to have won the most lip-syncs in their season. It was revealed in the first episode of Season 13 that Tamisha Iman was cast on Season 12 but was forced to forego competing on the season because of her colon cancer diagnosis. After she recovered, however, she was asked to return for Season 13. Kandy Muse was also cast on Season 12, but ended up dropping out for personal reasons and was replaced by her drag sister Dahlia Sin. Many fans were disappointed at the lack of the "Reading is Fundamental' mini challenge on Season 12. Many fans theorized that disqualified queen Sherry Pie won the mini challenge which was cause for the removal of the challenge. However, on September 15, 2022, Heidi N Closet confirmed there was a traditional reading challenge on the season, but it was "so bad we were told they couldn’t use it" and production chose to scrap it. Heidi also confirmed that there was no winner for the challenge and contrary to popular belief, Sherry actually did the worst in the challenge, complimenting her fellow competitors instead of reading them. [6][7][1][8] This season has produced a total of three returning contestants: Gallery Season 12 Casting Announcement Check out the lookbook gallery to see the contestants' planned looks for each episode. Check out the video gallery to see challenge performances, runways, lip syncs and more! References Navigation
