=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Jazzercise - Wikipedia]
Jazzercise franchise, Ann Arbor, Michigan A Jazzercise hot air balloon Jazzercise is a fitness franchise company founded by Judi Sheppard Missett in 1969 and headquartered in Carlsbad, California, United States. The franchise's name is a portmanteau of "jazz" and "exercise." Jazzercise combines dancercise, martial arts and strength training with popular music for a full-body workout. The ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jazzercise

[Jazzercise Celebrates a 50 Year Legacy of Fitness! - PRLog]
Judi Sheppard-Missett created Jazzercise in Evanston, Illinois in 1969 as a student at Northwestern University. She was teaching at a dance studio and noticed her classes had high dropout rates.
URL: https://www.prlog.org/12777527-jazzercise-celebrates-50-year-legacy-of-fitness.html

[How Jazzercise started in metro Chicago 55 years ago - Axios]
Jun 2, 2024 · Before Jazzercise was the global sensation so synonymous with leotards, leg warmers and bouncy beats, it started with one class at a dance studio in Evanston. The big picture: Professionally trained dancer Judi Sheppard Missett created the cardio workout for people who wanted to have fun with fitness, and more than 50 years later there are more than 2,000 Jazzercise studios worldwide.
URL: https://www.axios.com/local/chicago/2024/06/02/chicago-jazzercise-cardio-workout-judi-missett

[Judi Sheppard Missett Receives Carlsbad Chamber of Commerce ...]
Apr 17, 2019 — While her first classes were taught in Chicago in 1969, Sheppard Missett and the Jazzercise family have called Carlsbad home for decades since ...
URL: https://www.jazzercise.com/about/in-the-news/press-releases/article/judi-sheppard-missett-receives-carlsbad-chamber-of-commerce-lifetime-achievement-award-2

[Remember Jazzercise? It's Still Going Strong | Woman's World]
Apr 18, 2023 · Here’s what she had to say. A Short History of Jazzercise While Jazzercise is often thought of as part of the ’80s aerobics boom, it actually began before that. The program was founded in 1969 by Judi Sheppard Missett, a dance teacher in Chicago.
URL: https://www.womansworld.com/wellness/fitness/jazzercise-workout


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Jazzercise - Wikipedia] ---
Jazzercise is a fitness franchise company founded by Judi Sheppard Missett in 1969 and headquartered in Carlsbad, California, United States. The franchise's name is a portmanteau of "jazz" and "exercise."
Jazzercise combines dancercise, martial arts and strength training with popular music for a full-body workout. The company currently has over 8,300 franchisees worldwide in 32 countries.


--- [Jazzercise Celebrates a 50 Year Legacy of Fitness! - PRLog] ---
News By Tag Industry News News By Place Country(s) Industry News | Jazzercise Celebrates a 50 Year Legacy of Fitness!This is what turning 50 should be like for us all, celebrating legacy while manifesting a bright and full future. Jazzercise remains as one of the world's leading fitness programs, and it is poised to remain in the game for generations to come. By: Jazzercise of Bellevue, WA Seattle area Instructor Kristine Rooke was present to enjoy the celebration, as a tenured 28 year instructor. Rooke has been a presenter at these conventions, traveled the world with Jazzercise International and said of this event, "This weekend was one of the many highlights of my Jazzercise Franchisee career. So many valuable benefits of Jazzercise have made my passion for fitness possible as a business that helps thousands of people every day around the world." Including in Bellevue, WA, where Rooke has her own Franchised classes at the North Bellevue Community Center, 5 days a week. https://www.jazzercise.com/ Judi Sheppard-Missett created Jazzercise in Evanston, Illinois in 1969 as a student at Northwestern University. She was teaching at a dance studio and noticed her classes had high dropout rates. Realizing students were attending for physical fitness and not to become highly technically proficient in dance, Sheppard-Missett began to hold "just for fun" classes that began with a jazz warmup. These classes were eventually renamed "Jazzercise" "I started to study jazz dance technique . . . and I thought, `This is for me!' " she says. She loved the funkiness and the pulsing energy of both the dance style and the music. Giodano invited her to dance in his company and become one of his instructors, which she did. Gus Giodano was a big influence in her life. Sheppard-Missett's family moved to Carlsbad, California, where she taught classes in local recreation centers. Jazzercise quickly took off in San Diego and Sheppard-Missett trained new instructors herself. Many of those first instructors were in military families, so as they moved around the country, and the world, new populations were continually introduced to the program. Initially using VHS videos, Sheppard-Missett was able to train franchisees from a distance and began to sell franchise rights for Jazzercise studios across the country. The 50 year celebration at the San Diego Convention Center drew over 3000 Jazzercise students and instructors from all around the world. Shaking the concrete floors of the convention center with several different formats of class offerings, a professional team of Instructors from places like Italy, Japan, Sweden, Austria, Switzerland, and several US states taught classes of; Yoga Strong, Fitpro, Pilates, Dancing Abs, Body Strong, Core Fusion, Upper Body Builder, Booty burn, Strength 50, Dance Stretch, Slider Sculpt, Get LO, Street Style, Floor Barre, and the original format that kicked off the whole business, Dance Mixx. From the Jazzercise. com website: "Judi Sheppard-Missett started a revolution in 1969 when she created Jazzercise. Today she runs our company as CEO and Founder and teaches classes every week. Her daughter, Shanna-Missett- Something else we're proud of is our longstanding tradition of giving back. Our Jazzercise instructors have raised more than $28 million for a wide range of causes, most of them directly affecting their local communities. We also offer Kids Get Fit, a community outreach program to fight childhood obesity. Our instructors throw free dance parties at schools all over the world to get kids moving. So yep, we're the original dance party workout. And today we continue to rock it." The legacy continues too, with Shanna Missett-Nelson's two dancer daughters, who were also present as they flanked their mother and grandmother in classes and performances on stages within the convention center. This event showcased a multi-generational picture of beauty and fitness and tenacity. There were many smiles and sore feet in the downtown area as strong and sassy Jazzerciser's strutted the 50 year anniversary colors of black and gold proudly in the heartland of the company's headquarters. Thank goodness for Jazzercise, it has kept a beat under our feet for over 50 years. Congratulations on the milestone! End Account Email Address Account Phone Number Disclaimer Report Abuse | |


--- [How Jazzercise started in metro Chicago 55 years ago - Axios] ---
Before Jazzercise was the global sensation so synonymous with leotards, leg warmers and bouncy beats, it started with one class at a dance studio in Evanston. The big picture: Professionally trained dancer Judi Sheppard Missett created the cardio workout for people who wanted to have fun with fitness, and more than 50 years later there are more than 2,000 Jazzercise studios worldwide. Driving the news: Missett, 80, is popping in to help teach Jazzercise classes across the country to celebrate the company's 55 years in business. Flashback: In 1969, Missett was a recent Northwestern grad working in theater and teaching dance classes at Gus Giordano Dance School in Evanston (before the school moved to Andersonville). Missett noticed students were dropping out of her class, telling her the sessions were too difficult and disciplined. Over the next few years, word-of-mouth spread, and Missett's classes grew from 15 students to more than 60, especially popular with mothers who could bring their children to the studio. Missett moved to California in the mid-1970s and started offering Jazzercise sessions for $5 a month, making the classes more accessible to a wider customer base. The intrigue: Realizing she couldn't alone meet the demand of the classes, Missett trained more teachers, and by the early 1980s, Jazzercise began franchising. At one point, Jazzercise and Domino's Pizza were the top two franchises in the country, Missett tells Axios. The latest: Today's classes are not your mother's, aunt's or grandmother's Jazzercise. You can take classes online, in addition to in-studio, and some classes involve weights and resistance bands to include more sculpting in the workout. Missett still teaches Jazzercise classes, but her daughter Shanna Nelson is CEO and chief choreographer. What they're saying: "I have great customers that have been with us for almost the total 55 years we've been in existence," Missett says. "They have continued to stay healthy and fit all along with the program, and they say, 'We could never not do this, we are never going to stop,' so I have to keep going." If you go: There's a Jazzercise studio in Schaumburg, but it's also taught at parks, churches, schools and other venues throughout the area.


--- [Judi Sheppard Missett Receives Carlsbad Chamber of Commerce ...] ---
5 captures 11 Nov 2024 - 11 Dec 2025 Nov DEC Jan 11 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20251211154834/https://www.jazzercise.com/about/in-the-news/press-releases/article/judi-sheppard-missett-receives-carlsbad-chamber-of-commerce-lifetime-achievement-award-2 Loading...


--- [Remember Jazzercise? It's Still Going Strong | Woman's World] ---
Jazzercise Is Back in Style — Here’s How It’s Changed (And How It Hasn’t), According to Its CEO This family business has been making fitness fun for over 50 years. When you hear the word “Jazzercise,” what comes to mind? If you instantly imagine ’80s fitness classes full of pastel leotards and leg warmers, you’re not alone. But you may be surprised to learn that the female-founded, dance-inspired workout is staging a comeback of sorts. Though it never truly fell out of fashion, a new generation of women who are eager to stay fit but unwilling to sacrifice fun while doing it has discovered the original dance aerobics phenomenon. We spoke to Jazzercise CEO, Shanna Missett Nelson, about the groundbreaking workout’s appeal, and how it’s changed to meet the needs of a new fitness audience while retaining the accessibility that made it so popular among mature women. Here’s what she had to say. A Short History of Jazzercise While Jazzercise is often thought of as part of the ’80s aerobics boom, it actually began before that. The program was founded in 1969 by Judi Sheppard Missett, a dance teacher in Chicago. Missett realized that her students were more interested in getting fit than in pursuing dance as an art form, so she changed the format of her classes — and Jazzercise was born. While dance-inspired classes are commonplace today (think Zumba and hip-hop), that wasn’t the case in the late ’60s, when group fitness was still relatively new. The concept of aerobics was introduced just one year earlier, in a 1968 book by Dr. Kenneth H. Cooper, and the mainstream view of fitness was centered around men — like trailblazing TV workout guru Jack LaLanne, who opened the first modern health studio in the ’30s. By contrast, the Jazzercise workout was focused on dance cardio, and it was among the first to be geared towards women. The class was innovative in its use of pop music, allowing women to have fun while they worked up a sweat. Jazzercise grew steadily more popular and blew up in 1982, when it began to franchise across the country. The majority of franchise owners were — and continue to be — women; and many studios even offer babysitting, making it more accessible for hardworking moms. Throughout the ’80s, Jazzercise made some major public appearances that helped catapult it into the mainstream. Jazzercisers were featured in the opening ceremony of the 1984 Olympics, and Missett and her daughter led a “Great American Workout” on the White House lawn in 1991. Today, Jazzercise remains the longest-standing dance fitness company in America. Click through to try a fun and effective 11-Minute Latin Dance Workout! A Family Affair Part of what makes Jazzercise so special is the family story behind it. Founder Judi Sheppard Missett gave birth to her daughter, Shanna Missett Nelson, the same year she started the program. In 1987, at age 18, Shanna became certified as a Jazzercise instructor herself, and more recently Shanna’s daughter, Skyla, became a certified instructor too, following in the footsteps of her mom and grandma. Today, the three generations of women all teach weekly classes in California. Last year, Shanna took over the role of Jazzercise CEO from her mom. The family-driven nature of Jazzercise, which breeds support and female-centric community rather than competition, extends to their clientele. “While this is our family business, we see a similar multigenerational family aspect across the entire Jazzercise business,” Nelson tells Woman’s World. “So many women raised their daughters bringing them to class, teaching, or running their franchise businesses. We have many mother/daughter instructors and so many customers worldwide who found Jazzercise coming with their mom or grandmother, or both.” How Jazzercise Has Evolved Today, Jazzercise has 8,000 franchises around the world, offering 32,000 classes each week. In 2019, they launched Jazzercise on Demand, a subscription program featuring a variety of workouts that can be done from home. The company notes that subscribers tripled during the pandemic, as an increasing number of women found it a novel way to change up their remote fitness routines and achieve their goals. It’s tempting to say that Jazzercise has made a “comeback,” similar to the way old-school workouts have been rediscovered by younger audiences seeking to make fitness fun in recent years — but their CEO doesn’t quite see it that way. “I’m often asked about Jazzercise making a comeback, and it’s so interesting to me because we never left the fitness industry,” Nelson says. “We’re obviously famously associated with the 1980s because while experiencing exponential growth, we defined group fitness — and impacted fashion and women’s culture — in that decade.” However, Nelson emphasizes, “we have also continued to grow since then.” Nelson notes that their workouts have constantly evolved, and today incorporate different types of equipment, low-impact modifications, high-intensity interval training, strength training, pilates, circuit work, and new class formats, while still keeping Jazzercise staples like pop music and dance-inspired grooves. “Dance has always been the heart of Jazzercise and that will never change,” Nelson says — but that doesn’t mean it’s the same workout you might’ve done back in the ’80s. Now, Jazzercise features a variety of certified instructors who are younger than you might expect. “Jazzercise is especially appealing to the younger generation because it provides an inclusive space where everyone in the room is encouraged to feel good and be exactly who they are,” Nelson explains. So, why has this workout endured and reached new audiences while other fitness trends have come and gone? According to Nelson, the reason is simple: “The most important thing we do is help women find a love of movement,” she says — and dance is an accessible and affordable way to achieve this. Maintaining healthy habits like exercise is much easier when you’re doing something that brings you joy. “Everyone loves to dance,” Nelson concludes. “Or if they don’t know they love it, they find out when they try a Jazzercise class.” Conversation All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines. Woman's World does not endorse the opinions and views shared by our readers in our comment sections. Our comments section is a place where readers can engage in healthy, productive, lively, and respectful discussions. Offensive language, hate speech, personal attacks, and/or defamatory statements are not permitted. Advertising or spam is also prohibited.
