=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Bride or Die | Oxventure D&D | Live Special June 2022]
Dinner and dancing to follow. This Oxventure D&D show was recorded live at MCM London 2022. Subscribe for more Dungeons & Dragons on Outside Xbox and Outside Xtra!
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DG0MKc5Jy74

[Bride or Die | The Oxventure Guild Wiki | Fandom]
The Oxventurers Guild requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their half-orc bard Dob to thief queen Katie Pearlhead. Dinner and dancing to follow. Bride or Die is the eighth and final episode of the 2021-2022 Specials and the 88th episode overall. In preparation for their wedding, Katie Pearlhead asks Dob to collect some specific blue flowers during his stag do with the Guild ...
URL: https://the-oxventure-guild.fandom.com/wiki/Bride_or_Die

[Bride or Die | Live Special June 2022 - TheTVDB.com]
The Oxventurers Guild requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their half-orc bard Dob to thief queen Katie Pearlhead. Dinner and dancing to follow. This Oxventure D&D show was recorded live at MCM London 2022. Subscribe for more Dungeons & Dragons on Outside Xbox and Outside Xtra!
URL: https://thetvdb.com/series/the-oxventure/episodes/9565023

["Oxventure" Bride or Die (TV Episode 2022) - Serializd]
The Oxventurers Guild requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their half-orc bard Dob to thief queen Katie Pearlhead. Dinner and dancing to follow. This Oxventure D&D show was recorded live at MCM London 2022.
URL: https://www.serializd.com/show/Oxventure-225548/season/undefined/0/episode/21

[BRIDE OR DIE - Oxventure - A Dungeons & Dragons Podcast - Spotify]
Listen to this episode from Oxventure - A Dungeons & Dragons Podcast on Spotify. Any of you dragon sharks want to invest in Andy's podcast randomiser button? If so, get at us. Otherwise, please enjoy Bride or Die, the wedding-themed Oxventure D&D live show originally recorded at MCM Comic Con London in May 2022.
URL: https://open.spotify.com/episode/5k4nJttAEKpGtaEYNdm93A


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Bride or Die | Oxventure D&D | Live Special June 2022] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Bride or Die | The Oxventure Guild Wiki | Fandom] ---
The Oxventurers Guild requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their half-orc bard Dob to thief queen Katie Pearlhead. Dinner and dancing to follow. Bride or Die is the eighth and final episode of the 2021-2022 Specials and the 88th episode overall. In preparation for their wedding, Katie Pearlhead asks Dob to collect some specific blue flowers during his stag do with the Guild. Finding the flowers guarded by a number of boggles, Dob is persuaded to collect some near-identical but non-poisonous flowers, before the Guild settle down to camp and try one last time to dissuade Dob from the wedding. The ceremony, however, is interrupted by Doubt Demon Chinny Reckon who forces Dob to consider whether he truly wants to marry Katie, or whether he still has feelings for Liliana, with the musical answer bringing everything crashing to an end. Summary[] As the Ruined Church is being prepared for Dob and Katie Pearlhead's wedding, Katie approaches Dob who panics and tells her that if the chairbacks are the wrong colour, it is Egbert's fault. Egbert replies that he was in charge of the buffet. Dob asks whether Katie will be wearing a special pearl or the usual one, and she refuses to tell him, but he then tells her not to tell Corazón de Ballena anything or it will end up in the best man's speech. Corazón hands Dob a flagon of rum, which he downs. Katie tells Dob that there are two problems, the first being that the officiant is missing. Corazón begins to volunteer, but Egbert points out that as a paladin he would be more appropriate, and Katie enthusiastically agrees. Secondly, she states that she desperately wants particular blue flowers which can be found in a glade some two hours away, although they are very poisonous to touch, smell or drink the nectar of. Corazón shoots Dob with several paintballs. Dob insists on searching for the flowers as part of his stag do, and the group proceed into the woods, with Corazón giving Dob still more alcohol. Corazón tries to persuade Dob to shoot a stag; Dob shoots a tree and elbows Merilwen to make a dying deer sound, and pretends to Corazón that the deer is wounded and leaving to die. The Guild find themselves in a boggy semi-clearing, the ground strangely oily, but Dob recognises that the flowers Katie wants are on the edge of the clearing. As he talks about Katie's nickname for him, Corazón shoots him with paintballs again. Corazón and Prudence remind Dob that the flowers are poisonous even to smell, and Dob suggests that they stop their noses with wax. As they do not have wax, Corazón casts Grease into everyone's noses instead. Prudence suggests that they use Mage Hand to pick the flowers at a distance, but refuses to be the one to do so, and hands Dob some scraps of leather to protect his hands as he gathers the flowers. As Dob is about to pick the flowers, he drops the leather, and is about to reach for them bare-handed when a small portal opens between his hand and the flowers and the boggle Bilbo Boggins steps out. Corazón apologises for not being more specific when he ordered the erotic dancer for the stag do. The boggle raps Dob across the knuckles with a club and warns him away from the flowers. Dob explains that he wants them for his wedding tomorrow, but the boggle does not change their mind and calls out other boggles to also protect the flowers. When the boggles repeat that the flowers are extremely poisonous, Corazón adds that it has seemed a lot like Katie has been trying to poison Dob, although he claims that this came from Egbert, and suggests that they get some different flowers. The boggles refuse to give Dob the flowers, and Merilwen applauds them. Dob is offended. Corazón shoots him with more paintballs, this time in the groin, and Egbert initially presumes that Dob does not want it healed until Dob corrects him. The group persuade Dob to accept some illusory flowers, although he remains sulky, and Corazón gives him more rum. Dob apologises to the boggles for threatening them, and asks if they can direct him to some similar-looking flowers. They tell him to walk another 20 minutes, where he will find another community of boggles who were sent from the main village for being too annoying, who are protecting a growth of flowers which they believe are poisonous but are in fact harmless. Bilbo adds that if any of those boggles are killed, the main village will not be too concerned. The Guild sets out for the next village, where they hear the boggles singing We Know A Song That'll Get On Your Nerves. Merilwen turns into a bear, while Corazón moves Mage Hand to block people's ears instead of their noses. Seeing the boggles gathered in a small area, Corazón kicks one to its death, while Merilwen attempts to intimidate the boggles but is unable to sway them. Dob picks some of the flowers, causing the boggles to shout at each other to "get the kit" but none of them to actually do anything, then declares himself to be The One of Prophecy, while Corazón declares himself to be Kickman of religious justice. The boggles give Dob the antidote to the flowers: a large syringe filled with their urine, or a Pea Pen. Dob prompts them to go to war against the first village of boggles, which they enthusiastically agree to do, and begin arming themselves and spreading concerning quasi-religious rhetoric. Dob uses Prestidigitation to make the boggle urine taste like vodka, and drinks it, before the Guild continue to the pre-arranged campsite with tents, a bar, and music. Dob asks Prudence for help with the flowers, and she reluctantly assists him in making buttonholes, warming up to the idea once she settles on the title Maid of Dishonour. She unintentionally creates buttonholes with a complex knot that curses Katie, but Dob is too drunk to notice. Corazón suggests that they tell spooky stories around the campfire, and opens with a story about a man named Bod who was going to marry a woman with a big ruby for a head, but she poisoned and killed him. Dob asks whether anyone has a reason that he and Katie should not be married, and everyone raises their hand[1]. Prudence and Egbert pretend that they are concerned about Dob becoming domesticated and settling down, while Corazón and Merilwen openly say they think that Katie will kill him. Dob insists that this is what he wants, and the others relent, spending the next several hours drinking heavily and watching a dance based on dolphin mating rituals by Deep Sashelas. Finally, the Guild go to sleep, placing the flowers safely out of the reach of any raccoons. The nearest raccoons, however, are feasting on dead boggles from the ongoing boggle war. The next morning, Corazón is chipper while the others are hungover as they return to the ruined church, where Katie is arranging flowers, guests and a string quartet while Dob tries not to look too hungover. Katie's guests are various rogues, criminals and thieves, while Dob's include tavern owners, people whisked on adventures such as Iron, and Ethelfrith's Chosen along with the Flame Skull and skeleton of Norman the Mule. Bob the Would-be Adventurer declined his invitation. Corazón notes Katie's parents; one's head is covered with a giant clam, and Katie's father's is covered with a giant piece of grit. Egbert takes his place as officiant, and the band plays while Corazón walks down the aisle greeting people, before Katie is escorted to the altar by her father. She indicates Egbert to begin, and he greets them under the gaze of La Vache Mauve and asks pointedly whether anyone knows any reason that they should not be wed. Merilwen stands and says that she thinks Dob can do better; many knives are drawn and readied from Katie's side of the church. Egbert, not sure what to do, asks La Vache Mauve for guidance, but La Vache Mauve is also uncertain. Dob pretends to be La Vache Mauve and tells them to continue, and Egbert asks them whether they agree to be married. Before Dob can answer, there is a crack of thunder, a portal opens, and Chinny Reckon the Doubt Demon steps out. It introduces itself and explains that it is present because of the doubt in Dob's heart, challenging him to prove that he truly wants to be married to Katie. If Dob fails, Chinny Reckon will cut off his head and those of everyone in attendance; he challenges Dob to perform a song from the heart, and hands him a new lute on which to do so. Dob first offers to sing the Suzette's lullaby of The Vengabus, then after a moment's hesitation sings the song Liliana about how he is still in love with Liliana herself. Chinny Reckon states that the good news is that it does not have to decapitate Dob or anyone else, but the bad news is that this is now extremely awkward. He is pulled away through the portal to another place of doubt. Katie calmly asks Dob whether there is anything that he would like to tell her, and Dob prevaricates for a moment before admitting that he still has feelings for Liliana. He admits that he has not yet written a song for Katie, and that perhaps this is a sign that the wedding should not go ahead. Katie says that she had found it romantic when Dob had caught up to her and said that he wanted her to stop running away from him so that they could run away together; now, she tells him that it is time for him to run away from her. The skeletons rise and begin to give a speech, offering to look after Dob and Katie's future children should they become orphans, though Dob tries to stop them. Corazón launches into his best man speech, first talking about how Dob became cursed on The Frozen Peak then, at Dob's prompting, goes into a supposed story about escaping. Corazón, Dob, Prudence and Merilwen all bolt down the aisle, Merilwen throwing confetti as they go. Egbert first asks Katie whether she wants to marry someone else instead, as he is ready to perform the ceremony, while Corazón uses Minor Illusion to make a duplicate of Dob. When Katie says no, Egbert also runs away. Merilwen and Prudence make it outside before two of Katie's guests close and bar the doors behind them. Merilwen uses Stone Shape to open a new doorway in the wall of the church, and Prudence fires Eldritch Blast to clear a path for the others. She strikes and kills Charlie, a driver initially hired to take Dob and Katie for a carriage tour of the region after the wedding, but knocks over or aside a number of Katie's guests who fall against each other. Dob casts Greater Invisibility on himself and barges some of the thieves near Corazón to enable him to escape. Egbert throws a "warning bomb", hitting only Dob as Corazón and the thieves jump aside, then throws a second bomb into the centre of the thieves themselves. Twelve of them are killed, and La Vache Mauve looks away. The skeletons, who have the day off for the wedding, do not intervene. Katie throws a dagger at Dob, but misses and kills her Mate of Honour, Guthole. Merilwen casts Moonbeam into the crowd of thieves and Prudence casts Hunger of Hadar into the thickest part of the crowd she can see. Corazón casts Grease between himself and the door and does a running dive into it to escape the church, ending perfectly at the outdoor bar. The thieves attempt to attack Dob, but cannot find him, before being killed by Hadar and the sweeping Moonbeam. The skeletons are momentarily interested in taking the bones of those killed, before the tentacles of Hadar crush them to ash and make them unusable. Katie is now the only survivor on her side of the church. Dob recalls the skeletons into the Hammer of Ethelfrith and casts Hideous Laughter on Katie; as he searches for a joke to tell, Merilwen says that it should be "your relationship". As Katie falls to the ground, laughing so hard that it becomes a painful scream, Egbert produces his Umbrella Full of Bees and jams it into the pearl. The Guild flee the church, take the horse-drawn carriage, and escape into the sunset. Characters[] Player Characters[] Named Non-Player Characters[] - Bilbo Boggins - Bob the Would-be Adventurer - Charlie - Chinny Reckon (Doubt Demon) - Deep Sashelas - Egbert's Seal - Ethelfrith's Chosen - Frisky and The Darkness - Guthole - Iron - Katie Pearlhead - La Vache Mauve - Lord Milquetoast - Liliana - The Lads (Ship Happens) Unnamed Non-Player Characters[] - Bartender - Boggles - Corazón de Ballena's Mother - Crows - Katie Pearlhead's Parents - Original Wedding Officiant - Other Wedding Attendees - Tavern Owners Who Know Dob - 68 Thieves, Brigands And Ne'er-do-Wells (Katie's Guests) - Raccoons - String Quartet Locations[] - Ruined Church - Unnamed Forest - Village of Boggles Protecting Deadly Flowers - Village of Boggles Protecting Not-Deadly Flowers Quotes[] - Egbert: "I've only been on one stag do, and it ended extremely badly." - Johnny: Why don't you make me an Intelligence/Nature check to try and find some some of these flowers? Andy: Well I'm not going to, because I'm not interested. Johnny: That's fair and, indeed, assumed. - Corazón: "You will thank me when you're not dead of flower inhalation!" - Andy: What do I roll to shoot Dob in the crotch with a paintball gun? - Egbert: "I'm assuming you don't want me to lay hands on that." Corazón: "I don't know, the night's just getting started, Egbert." Dob: "You have been assuming all day!" - Bilbo Boggins: "It's not that big of a deal, my rum-swilling friend. All of the best marriages are founded on a lie." - Egbert: "Apologies to Merilwen, but we're on a shrub crawl." - Johnny: I don't want this description to be too leading, but they are in a small blast radius or area of effect. - Johnny: Okay, so they're starting a - I mean, I'm not going to call it a holy war, but a lot of the rhetoric being thrown around is concerning! - Andy: It came out of their boggle cloacas! Johnny: Oh, no, I'm not ready for this again. Andy: I don't know boggle anatomy. - Andy: So what exotic dancers did the agency send? Because I really wasn't very specific at all. I just said anything from the Monster Manual is fine. - Andy: Not Corazón. He's one of those annoying people who is incredibly chipper in the morning after drinking an unbelievable amount. He is running around, he's clattering, he's making coffee, he's singing, he's having a great time. - Johnny: What is the venue? What have you and Katie chosen? Luke: I thought you'd never ask. It is uh the crumbling ruin of a church. Mike: Symbolic. Andy: For the crumbling ruin of a relationship. - Corazón: "Sky cow! What do we do?" Egbert: "Some guidance!" La Vache Mauve: "...um. Oh, jeez." - Luke: I know what she meant. I'm procrastinating. - Luke: I always die at weddings. - Mike: I'm going to throw a warning bomb. Andy: ...not a thing. - Johnny: That is so you, and by 'you; I mean it's beautifully simple, and yet at the same time so poorly thought out. This is just a bomb, isn't it? - Johnny: Is this a diss track? You've turned a spell into a diss track? - Johnny: I mean, they're very obviously dead. And I feel like whatever the Geth equivalent of forensic scientists are will be puzzling out exactly what happened for days if not years to come. - Egbert: "I always cry at weddings, but not usually for this reason." Trivia[] - In the podcast, Mike stated that his suggestion for a title had been "Groom for Improvement" [] | References[] - ↑ the members of the audience also raised their hands at this point


--- [Bride or Die | Live Special June 2022 - TheTVDB.com] ---
The Oxventurers Guild requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their half-orc bard Dob to thief queen Katie Pearlhead. Dinner and dancing to follow. This Oxventure D&D show was recorded live at MCM London 2022. Subscribe for more Dungeons & Dragons on Outside Xbox and Outside Xtra!


--- ["Oxventure" Bride or Die (TV Episode 2022) - Serializd] ---
Discover Log in Join for free S00 E21 Episode 21 • Oxventure Bride or Die Jun 17 2022 • 108m The Oxventurers Guild requests the pleasure of your company at the marriage of their half-orc bard Dob to thief queen Katie Pearlhead. Dinner and dancing to follow. This Oxventure D&D show was recorded live at MCM London 2022. Reviews Friends Lists Media Cast/Crew Reviews See all


--- [BRIDE OR DIE - Oxventure - A Dungeons & Dragons Podcast - Spotify] ---
No content
