=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dick Drago - Wikipedia]
Richard Anthony Drago (June 25, 1945 – November 2, 2023) was an American relief pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Kansas City Royals (1969–1973), Boston Red Sox (1974–1975, 1978–1980), California Angels (1976–1977), Baltimore Orioles (1977), and Seattle Mariners (1981). He batted and threw right-handed. Drago is notable for being the final pitcher to give up a home ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dick_Drago

[Obituary: Dick Drago (1945-2023) - RIP Baseball]
Nov 13, 2023 · RIP to Dick Drago, who won more than 100 games as a starter and reliever during a 13-year career. The Boston Globe reported that the 78-year-old died in Florida on November 2 of complications follo…
URL: https://ripbaseball.com/2023/11/13/obituary-dick-drago-1945-2023/

[Dick Drago - Society for American Baseball Research]
Jan 4, 2012 · Despite the high profile of his post-baseball problems, Dick Drago should also be remembered for what he was as a player: a good pitcher who excelled as both a starter and reliever, and who pitched great baseball in his biggest games. Drago died from complications of surgery in Florida at the age of 78 on November 2, 2023. Sources
URL: https://sabr.org/bioproj/person/dick-drago/

[Red Sox World Series pitcher Dick Drago dead - New York Post]
Nov 6, 2023 — Dick Drago, a pitcher on the 1975 Red Sox team, died Thursday at the age of 78 from complications following surgery, the Boston Globe reported. ...
URL: https://nypost.com/2023/11/06/sports/red-sox-world-series-pitcher-dick-drago-dead/

[Dick Drago, staple of Red Sox pitching staff in 1970s, dies at 78]
Nov 4, 2023 · Dick Drago, who pitched for the Red Sox in the 1970s, died Thursday at age 78. Drago, who spent five years with the club from 1974-1975 and 1978-1980, compiled a 30-29 record and 3.55 ERA over 206 ...
URL: https://www.boston.com/sports/boston-red-sox/2023/11/04/dick-drago-red-sox-pitcher-dies-age-78-obituary-news-the-dragon/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dick Drago - Wikipedia] ---
Richard Anthony Drago (June 25, 1945 – November 2, 2023) was an American relief pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Kansas City Royals (1969–1973), Boston Red Sox (1974–1975, 1978–1980), California Angels (1976–1977), Baltimore Orioles (1977), and Seattle Mariners (1981). He batted and threw right-handed. Drago is notable for being the final pitcher to give up a home run to Hank Aaron.




--- [Obituary: Dick Drago (1945-2023) - RIP Baseball] ---
RIP to Dick Drago, who won more than 100 games as a starter and reliever during a 13-year career. The Boston Globe reported that the 78-year-old died in Florida on November 2 of complications following surgery. Drago played for the Kansas City Royals (1969-73), Boston Red Sox (1974-75, 1978-80), California Angels (1976-77), Baltimore Orioles (1977) and Seattle Mariners (1981). Richard Anthony Drago was born in Toledo, OH, on June 25, 1946. He played baseball and basketball at Woodward High School in Toledo, and he also played plenty of Little League, Pony and American Legion ball during his summers. He was part of a Connie Mack team that reached the semi-finals of the national tournament in 1962. When he wasn’t pitching, Drago played all over the infield. He graduated from high school in 1963 and enrolled at the University of Detroit for a year. He signed as an amateur free agent with the Detroit Tigers in September of 1964, with scout Herm Kander doing the honors. After playing winter ball in 1963-64, Drago played for two different Class-A teams in ’64 and won 5 games between them while losing 14. He returned to Class-A Rocky Mount in 1966 and turned in a brilliant season. He won 15 games, including a 7-inning no-hitter in the first game of a doubleheader against Greensboro on May 15, 1966. Right after he accomplished the feat, his roommate, Darrell Clark, told him, “I guess I’ll have to go out and throw one, too.” And he did, in the second game. It was believed to be the first time in organized baseball that a team threw two no-hitters on the same day. Drago was just as happy for his roommate as he was for his own success. “I was in the stands holding my breath for Darrell to get his,” he said. “When it was over, I tried to be the first one out there, but some of the other guys beat me to him.” Drago won 15 games in 1967 and 1968, working his way up to Triple-A Toledo. His fastball was the pitch that got him signed by the Tigers, but part of his development involved learning a curveball and a slider. Johnny Sain, one of the great pitching instructors of all time, worked with the youngster in winter ball. “He can teach you how to pitch,” Drago said in a 1967 interview. “He had me throwing seven different pitches one time last year.” The success didn’t get Drago to the majors with Detroit, but it got him selected by the Kansas City Royals in the expansion draft held in October 1968. He made the team out of spring training to become an original Royal in 1969. Drago made his major-league debut in the Royals’ third game, throwing 4-2/3 shutout innings against Oakland on April 11. He spent the first month of the season as a long reliever before moving into the starting rotation in May. He threw back-to-back complete game wins over California and Baltimore in his first two starts, and even if the Royals didn’t always give him enough run support, he showed the ability to pitch well deep into ballgames. Drago’s success left Kansas City manager Joe Gordon wondering why Detroit never gave him a shot in the majors. “He’s as strong as a bull. He has a good slider, a sinker, an upshoot fastball, changes his speed well.” Pitching coach Mel Harder added that Drago began the season as a reliever because he didn’t show the big fastball in spring training that everyone claimed he had. “Then, about two weeks ago in Minnesota, he really popped the fastball in relief. Drago said everything seemed to jell all at once,” Harder added. Drago moved in and out of the rotation for the rest of the year, largely depending on how effective his last start was. He tossed a couple of shutouts in August, and that seemed to cement his role as a starter. The one thing he didn’t show was an ability to hit. In fact, Drago didn’t get his first major-league hit until September 4 against the Seattle Pilots. The timing was perfect, as he cracked an RBI double against Diego Segui that scored Buck Martinez from second base, adding an insurance run in a 5-3 win. Drago made a total of 26 starts in his 41 appearances with Kansas City, with an 11-13 record and a 3.77 ERA. He completed 10 games and was second on the team with 200-2/3 innings pitched. For the rest of his time with the Royals, Drago was one of Kansas City’s most reliable starters. He led the team in innings pitched from 1970-72, even though he had just one season with a win-loss record of over .500. The results say more about the inconsistencies of the expansion Royals than it does Drago’s pitching abilities. The team went through three managers in its first two years. Gordon was replaced by Charlie Metro in 1970, and he lasted through 52 games before being fired. Drago celebrated his departure and the appointment of Bob Lemon by throwing an 8-1 complete game over the Washington Senators. Metro, he said, “made it just miserable for us… It’s hard to explain how it was playing for him. There was no room for a mistake. Every pitch you made was supposed to produce a pop-up or a groundout. There was no room for any fun in the game. To Charlie, if you gave it all and lost, it wasn’t good enough.” Drago struggled to a 9-15 record in 1970, but he won 17 games for Kansas City and Lemon in 1971, as the team finished in a surprising second place in the AL West. He struck out just 109 batters in 241-1/3 innings. but he had pinpoint control, allowing 46 walks. He gave up more than a hit an inning, but his 2.98 ERA was his best mark as a starter, and he led Royals pitchers with 15 complete games and 4 shutouts. He finished fifth in the Cy Young Award vote. “I’ve always been a control pitcher,” Drago said. “But I’ve also learned, I think, to throw better to spots. You know we’ve got a good defensive team, so I get it over and they hit it at somebody. I give up a lot of hits, but a lot of them aren’t hits that hurt.” The Royals remained an above-.500 team, but Drago slumped after his 17-win year. He won 12 games in 1973 and ’74, but he lost 17 and 14 games, respectively. His ERA also climbed higher, to 3.01 in 1972 and 4.23 in 1973. He was supplanted as staff ace by Paul Splittorff, who became Kansas City’s first 20-game winner in 1973. The Royals traded Drago to the Boston Red Sox on October 24, 1973, getting starter Marty Pattin in return. With 61 wins, Drago was the Royals’ winningest pitcher at the time of the trade. “Drago has done a workman-like job, but you must always give someone up to get someone whom you feel will help your club’s chances,” said Royals GM Cedric Tallis. Boston was rebuilding its pitching staff in 1974, combining existing starters like Luis Tiant, Roger Moret and Bill Lee with newly acquired pitchers like Drago, Rick Wise, Juan Marichal and Reggie Cleveland. Drago started off in the bullpen, but injuries and ineffectiveness of some of the starters caused manager Darrell Johnson to put him in the rotation for long stretches. As a result, Drago became one of the busiest pitchers on the Sox. He pitched in 33 games and made 18 starts, with a 7-10 record and 3.48 ERA. In his return trip to Kansas City, he allowed a game-tying 2-run homer to Hal McRae, earning some heckling from his former teammates. Then he didn’t allow another run in 5-1/3 innings of relief, ultimately getting the win when Boston scored a run in the 13th inning to win 5-4. It would be the last season that Drago was used as a starter with any regularity. Going into 1975, Drago had a total of 4 career saves. He earned a save in his first appearance of the year by throwing a scoreless 13th inning against Baltimore in a 3-2 win. He wasn’t a full-time stopper, as Johnson gave plenty of save opportunities to Diego Segui and Jim Willoughby, too, but Drago ended up with 15 of Boston’s 31 saves. He had a 2-2 record, a 3.84 ERA and 43 strikeouts in 40 games. Boston needed those saves, as the Red Sox won 95 games to finish first in the AL East Division. Boston swept the Oakland A’s in the AL Championship Series, and Drago earned saves in 2 of the 3 wins. His World Series experience against Cincinnati was a mixed bag. He took the loss in Game Two after entering in relief for Lee. In the top of the ninth inning, with the game tied at 2 and Johnny Bench on second base after doubling against Lee, Drago allowed a single to Dave Concepcion and an RBI double to Ken Griffey to put the Reds ahead for good, 3-2. Then in Game Six, best remembered for Carlton Fisk’s dramatic home run, Drago pitched 3 scoreless innings in relief after Bernie Carbo had tied the game in the ninth inning with a 3-run blast. Rick Wise picked up the win by working a scoreless 12th inning, setting the stage for Fisk’s heroics. But Drago made it possible with a valuable, if little remembered, performance. Drago adapted to the relief role quickly. After giving up Griffey’s game-winning hit in Game Two, he told reporters after the game, “Sometimes you do, sometimes you don’t — that’s the life of a relief pitcher. I made good pitches. I did the job I wanted to do, only things didn’t work out for me.” The other part about the life of a relief pitcher is the frequent transactions, and Drago was no exception to that rule, either. On March 3, 1976, he was traded to the California Angels for outfielders John Balaz and Dick Sharon and shortstop Dave Machemer. The move dumbfounded his teammates, especially his fellow pitchers. “I’m very disappointed. The way Drago was treated last year wasn’t fair at all,” Lee said. The Angels were happy to have the veteran bring some balance to its bullpen, but he ended up with just 6 saves in 43 games. It was still enough to lead the Angels, who had 17 saves as a team — when Nolan Ryan and Frank Tanana combine for 44 complete games, there aren’t many save opportunities to be had. Drago also found himself making a bit of baseball history when he gave up a homer to Milwaukee’s Henry Aaron on July 20, 1976. It was the 755th and final home run of Aaron’s career. Drago started 1977 with the Angels and saved 2 games in 13 appearances. He was traded to the Baltimore Orioles in mid-June for pitcher Dyar Miller and earned 3 more saves, giving him a total of 5 in 49 appearances. He won 6 games for Baltimore and had a 3.63 ERA as an Oriole. After the season, he was declared a free agent. Free agency at the time worked differently than it does now. All free agents were put into a re-entry draft, and they were free to negotiate with any team that drafted them. Drago was selected by 6 teams and was able to negotiate a return to Boston with the Red Sox by signing a multi-year, $300,000 contract. “I wanted to go back to Boston because I always liked it there,” he said. “The California Angels didn’t appreciate my value as a relief pitcher.” Drago returned to the Red Sox bullpen and picked up where he had left off. He wasn’t the team’s official closer, though he did lead the team with 13 saves in 1979. He had 7 saves in 1978, but he was, above all, a long reliever that year. Of his 37 appearances, 24 of them lasted multiple innings. The Red Sox suffered a collapse in 1978; the team went from leading the AL East by 9 games in August to losing a 1-game playoff with the Yankees to finish in second. Drago, though, did what he was asked to do. He threw 19-2/3 innings in September and had a 1.93 ERA in that span. In 1979, when he picked up 13 of Boston’s 29 saves, only 3 of them were an inning or less. He pitched 89 innings that year while appearing in 53 games, and he also picked up 10 wins while logging a 3.03 ERA for the second straight year. Drago had a much more uneven season in 1980. He gave up a grand slam to Milwaukee’s Sixto Lezcano in his first appearance of the season, and he had frequent rough outings that sent his ERA at or above 5. He was moved into the starting rotation in September and pitched much better. Drago won 3 of his 7 starts and had a 3.27 ERA as a starter. One of his better relief outings came on July 13 against Detroit. He came into the sixth inning in relief of Bob Ojeda and threw 3-1/3 innings of hitless relief. The only blemish was a walk to Steve Kemp. Boston scored 4 runs in those innings, giving the Red Sox the 8-4 win and Drago the 100th win of his career. Boston traded Drago to the Seattle Mariners on April 8, 1981, in exchange for reliever Manny Sarmiento. Drago, bluntly, said that the trade “stinks.” “I would have been better off if [Boston] had released me so that I could have made my own deal. I guess they don’t think too much of my loyalty.” Drago pitched in 39 games for the Mariners and picked up 5 saves and a 4-6 record, but it took a 6-inning scoreless relief outing in his final appearance to drop his ERA below 6 to a 5.53 mark. Nearly a year to the day after the trade, the Mariners released him, bringing his MLB career to a close. Drago spent 1982 pitching for the Mexico City Tigers in the Mexican League before ending his professional pitching career. In 13 years in the majors, Drago had a 108-117 record. He started 189 of his 519 games and threw 62 complete games, including 10 shutouts. He also earned 58 saves. Drago had a 3.62 ERA, a 103 ERA+, and a 1.311 WHIP. He struck out 987 batters and walked 558. As a batter, he had 21 hits in 174 at-bats for a .077/.145/.091 slash line. Drago was an avid golfer and bowler and did plenty of both in his retirement as a player. He worked for a vice president of sales for a Massachusetts promotional services company after he left the game. He later moved to Fort Myers, FL, and worked in sales and marketing for several companies. He also pitched in the Senior League in Florida. Drago’s role in the Red Sox bullpen during the team’s memorable 1970s teams left him a permanent part of Boston’s sports memory. One of his most memorable games was one in which he didn’t even play. It was that 1978 playoff game between the Yankees and Red Sox to determine the AL East division winner. “That was the hardest defeat in all the years I played, losing that playoff game after we both won 99 games,” Drago said in 1989. “For three days I sat in the chair in the living room. My wife dusted around me.” Follow me on Instagram: @rip_mlb Follow me on Facebook: ripbaseball Follow me on Bluesky: @ripmlb Follow me on Threads: @rip_mlb Support RIP Baseball Discover more from RIP Baseball Subscribe to get the latest posts sent to your email.


--- [Dick Drago - Society for American Baseball Research] ---
Dick Drago Sometime during the 1975 season, pitcher Dick Drago stopped in a convenience store and was recognized by the counter clerk as a member of the Boston Red Sox. Not being familiar with Drago out of uniform, the clerk asked the pitcher his name. Dick answered, “I’m Drago.” To which the clerk responded, “Oh yeah, Drago Segui.”1 That Dick Drago was mistaken for the older, Cuban-born fellow reliever Diego Segui shows that Drago, while in Boston, played in the shadows of his more highly visible and more widely publicized teammates. Although he never received the acclaim given to others, it is clear that he was a key player on his Red Sox teams; never was he more important than during the glory season of 1975. Richard Anthony Drago was born in Toledo, Ohio, on June 25, 1945. Of Italian-German descent, he had a typical middle-class upbringing in the medium-sized industrial city. He played local youth baseball, culminating in being named a Connie Mack all-star. At Woodward High School, Dick lettered in basketball and bowling as well as baseball. It was in baseball that he truly excelled; his varsity record was 18-3, which included two no-hitters as a senior. Although he did receive some attention from scouts, Drago decided to accept a baseball scholarship to the University of Detroit. Although more known as a basketball or football school (the university dropped football in Drago’s freshman year) it had recently produced a prominent baseball pitcher for the Chicago White Sox, Dave DeBusschere. Better known as a pro basketball player, DeBusschere was an eight-time All-Star in the NBA. After Drago’s freshman year, Detroit Tigers scout Herman Kander signed him to a professional contract. He began the 1965 season at Daytona Beach in the Florida State League. After 14 appearances, and a record of 4-7, he was promoted to Rocky Mount in the Carolina League. His midseason elevation did not meet with immediate success. Although suffering from errors behind him (one-third of the runs scored off him were unearned), Drago completed only three of eight starts while posting a 1-7 record. In 1966 Drago returned to Rocky Mount and had a fine year, finishing 15-9, 1.79 ERA, with a league-leading seven shutouts. He was the winning pitcher in the Carolina League all-star game and, in a doubleheader against Greensboro, he threw a seven-inning no-hitter. (His roommate, Darrell Clark, tossed another seven-inning no-no in the nightcap.) Drago advanced to Montgomery (Southern League) for 1967 and again won 15 games, this time leading the league. This earned him a promotion to Triple-A Toledo, where he got in one game, giving up two hits and one run in three innings. Drago spent all of 1968 pitching for the hometown Mud Hens and for the third year in a row won 15 games. He had 146 strikeouts, nine complete games, and a respectable 3.36 ERA. He pitched in the International League All-Star game. His continued success throughout the Detroit minor-league system would suggest that a Tigers call-up loomed for 1969. Instead, the promising pitcher was exposed to the expansion draft in 1968 and was selected by the brand-new Kansas City Royals. For the Royals, Drago became the workhorse. During his five years in Kansas City, he averaged 32 starts, 10 complete games, and well over 200 innings pitched. His best year, and the only one in which he had a winning record with the Royals, was 1971 when he posted a 17-11 record, completed 15 of 34 starts, had an ERA under 3.00, and was selected as the Royals’ Pitcher of the Year. In 1973, his last year as a Royal, his ERA exceeded 4.00 for the first time and he was outshone on the staff by Paul Splittorff. Later, Drago would say that Royals manager Jack McKeon quit on him that year. McKeon has denied this but it soon became clear that the Royals were ready to deal Drago in the offseason.2 On October 24, 1973, the Royals traded Drago to the Red Sox for Marty Pattin, a 30-year-old right-handed starter who was two years older than Drago. Both players wanted and needed a change in scenery. In 1974 rookie Boston skipper Darrell Johnson used Drago in 33 games, 18 as a starter and 15 out of the bullpen. This dual role of starter/reliever was one Drago shared with Roger Moret. He said he favored starting but it was his relief work that made him a success in Boston.3 Although his 1973 season ERA was 3.48, his relief ERA was a dominating 1.37. During the stretch run, in which the Red Sox fell out of contention, he pitched well but lost two games by scores of 3-1 and 2-1. Over the offseason, the return from injury of veteran starter Rick Wise cemented Dick Drago’s role in the bullpen for 1975. Wise led the team in victories and Drago emerged as the premier reliever. His 15 saves ranked fifth in the league and his 34 games finished placed him ninth. In the heat of the stretch drive, beginning August 27, he pitched in 13 games, earning one win and eight saves. Darrell Johnson enthused that Drago was as important to Boston as the much more publicized Rollie Fingers was to Oakland.4 In the ALCS against Oakland, Drago proved his worth, pitching 4? scoreless innings in Games Two and Three, earning saves in both. In Game Two at Fenway Park, Johnson sent for Drago after Moret walked the first batter in the top of the seventh. After Drago was announced, Oakland manager Al Dark countered with pinch-hitter Billy Williams. Williams, a lifetime .290 hitter and a former NL batting champ, was not Drago’s only concern as he prepared to pitch, because the batter Moret had walked was former Red Sox teammate Tommy Harper, one of the best basestealers in the game. Nursing a one-run lead, Drago showed a lot of interest in the runner leading off first. Drago began Williams’s at-bat with three throws to first, making Harper dive back while Williams worked the count to 2-and-2. After one more toss to first, Drago struck Williams out with a high fastball. Drago threw to first once more before pitching to the next batter, Billy North. North lined the first pitch to center fielder Fred Lynn, whose throw to Cecil Cooper at first easily doubled up Harper. In a postgame interview Drago was asked how he was able to deal with the threat of Harper and still focus on the batters. He answered: “That is what I get paid for.”5 The final two innings were much less stressful because Drago’s teammates got him an insurance run in both the seventh and eighth innings. Moving to Oakland for Game Three, Drago came in to relieve the starter Wise with one out, two runs in, and two men on in the bottom of the eighth with the Red Sox holding a 5-3 lead. The pressure of the situation on the field was magnified by the frenzied Oakland fans, whose unbridled exuberance caused a delay in the proceedings more than once. But it didn’t faze Drago, whose one pitch to Joe Rudi was grounded to short for an inning-ending double play. Drago’s ninth was not as easy. Once again he faced Williams who, on a 2-and-2 count, lined the ball off Drago’s shin. The ball caromed to Cooper, who tossed to the bloodied but alert pitcher covering first for a painful 1-3-1 putout. After the game Boston Globe reporter Peter Gammons commented on Drago’s “bloody stocking” (the first reporting of a Red Sox pitcher’s bloody sock in postseason play).6 Gene Tenace popped to short for the second out. Drago then walked North on four pitches, bringing Johnson to the mound for a visit. Drago’s wildness continued as pinch-hitter Jim Holt worked the count to 3-and-0. Drago now bore down and after Holt fouled off one 3-and-2 pitch, he grounded slowly to Denny Doyle at second, who threw to Cooper and the celebration began. Drago also pitched in two of the seven games of the classic 1975 World Series. In the second game he was called upon in a save situation. With the Red Sox leading 2-1, Johnson summoned Drago in the top of the ninth to replace starter Bill Lee after Lee surrendered a first-pitch leadoff double to Johnny Bench. With the tying run on second, Drago got Tony Perez to ground out to short but Bench advanced to third. George Foster flied to left but much too shallow to challenge the arm of Carl Yastrzemski. With two down, Dave Concepcion bounced a good pitch over Drago’s head. Doyle fielded it but couldn’t make a play as Bench scored the tying run. On the next pitch, Concepcion took off for second and despite Fisk’s throw and Doyle’s tag, the lead run was in scoring position. Ken Griffey fouled off two of Drago’s fastballs before he lined a double to left, scoring Concepcion. After Drago walked Cesar Geronimo intentionally, he got pitcher Rawly Eastwick to ground to second, forcing Geronimo. After the Red Sox were retired in the bottom of the ninth, Drago suffered the loss and the Series was tied at a game apiece. After sitting out all three games in Cincinnati and waiting out three days of rain, Drago was next summoned into Game Six with the score tied to start the ninth inning. Drago easily disposed of the three future Hall of Famers: Joe Morgan, Bench, and Perez. Sitting in the dugout during the bottom of the ninth, Drago probably thought he was going to even his Series record as the Red Sox loaded the bases with no outs. However, this situation just added to the drama of this legendary game as the Red Sox failed to score, sending the game into extra innings. In the 10th, Drago didn’t have it as easy. After retiring Foster, he faced his Game Two nemesis Concepcion, who singled and again stole second. Drago hitched up his belt and struck out Geronimo before pinch-hitter Dan Driessen flied out to Bernie Carbo in left. The Red Sox went down 1-2-3 and quickly Drago was back on the mound for his third inning of work. A cursory look at a scorebook for this inning would indicate a fairly routine three-batter, three-out inning: a hit by pitch, a force out, and a double play. However, it was anything but routine and required two outstanding plays by two Gold Glovers. After Drago nailed leadoff batter Pete Rose with a fastball, Griffey tried to sacrifice him to second, but Fisk threw to second base to force Rose. On a 1-and-1 pitch, Morgan lined Drago’s offering deep to right, where Dwight Evans pulled the drive out of the first row of fans and instinctively threw quickly – if not accurately – towards first. Yastrzemski fielded it and flipped to an alert and hustling Rick Burleson covering first to record the third out.7 In the bottom of the 11th, Drago was pinch-hit for and, when the Red Sox didn’t score, it ended his chance to win the greatest game in World Series history. In the offseason, even championship teams try to better themselves. The Red Sox, however, made a move that didn’t help them at all. On March 3, 1976, they sent Drago, their best reliever, to California, ostensibly for three players who would never play an inning for Boston: John Balaz, Dick Sharon, and Dave Machemer. The term “ostensibly” is used because it was reported that Drago was sent to the Angels as “the player to be named later” for Denny Doyle (acquired the previous June). The Red Sox still sent minor-league pitcher Chuck Ross to the Angels two days later to make everything look more legitimate. Drago pitched for the Angels for a year and a half. In 1976 he appeared in 43 games, all in relief, going 7-8 with a 4.42 ERA. The next season he appeared in 13 games for the Angels with a record of 0-1 and a 3.00 ERA before being traded on June 13 to the Baltimore Orioles for Dyar Miller. Drago pitched well for Baltimore, appearing in 36 games and going 6-3. After the 1977 season, Drago became a free agent and rejoined the Red Sox. He spent the next three years on teams that were never quite good enough to get into the postseason though they couldn’t have come any closer in 1978. (Drago was 4-4 with a 3.03 ERA that year.) The most important game Drago appeared in during this second stint with Boston was on October 2, 1978 – the Bucky Dent playoff game. He came on in relief of Andy Hassler with two outs in the top of the ninth and Paul Blair on first. After keeping the speedy Blair close with three throws to first, Drago got Thurman Munson to hit a grounder in the hole that third baseman Frank Duffy missed cutting off, but Burleson fielded it, just forcing Blair at second. During these three years Drago appeared in 133 games, mostly in relief, although in 1980 he did have a complete game. His composite record was 21-17 with 23 saves and an ERA of 3.52. One aspect of the game in which Drago excelled was the role of bench jockey. In his days as a relief pitcher, he would stay in the dugout until later in the game so he could get on as many opposing players as possible. Nothing was off-limits to the leather-lunged Drago if he felt it irritated opponents and gave his team even the slightest edge.8 Drago also did good work off the field, including many visits to see children in hospitals, bringing small gifts and signing autographs. In July1978 one of his hospital visits made the wire services and he cheered up a young patient by promising him a strikeout and tickets to the World Series.9 Just before the 1981 season began, Drago was dealt to Seattle for Venezuelan right-hander Manny Sarmiento, who never pitched a game for the Red Sox. The deal upset Drago, who blasted the Red Sox for not releasing him so he could become a free agent.10 For Seattle, he went 4-6 with the highest ERA of his career; his 5.53 was more than one run above any previous season ERA and almost two runs higher than his career mark. As disappointing as 1981 was for Drago, it became even more disappointing in that it was his last year. The Mariners released him on April 2, 1982. The early years of his retirement from baseball were not kind to Dick Drago. Twice divorced, he was assessed significant child-support payments and soon thereafter was assessed even more in tax payments, penalties, and interest because the IRS disallowed tax shelters he had claimed. This all came to a head in 1992 when he was arrested in Florida and returned in custody to Massachusetts to face charges of failure to pay child support. Doug Hornig suggests that Massachusetts had decided to make an example of the ex-Red Sox player. His brother was able to post bond and he was released. As the trial was about to begin, Drago produced proof of payments, a settlement was reached, and he was allowed to return to Florida.11 Despite the high profile of his post-baseball problems, Dick Drago should also be remembered for what he was as a player: a good pitcher who excelled as both a starter and reliever, and who pitched great baseball in his biggest games. Drago died from complications of surgery in Florida at the age of 78 on November 2, 2023. Sources The major-league statistical, transaction information was obtained from at least one of three sources: The Baseball Encyclopedia, 9th ed., Total Baseball, 1st ed., or Baseball-Reference.com. Much of the information about Drago’s early years comes from an undocumented index card in Drago’s clipping file housed in the Research Department at the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Game accounts draw on Retrosheet.org, the Boston Globe, and, for 1975, Tom Adelman’s book The Long Ball. (Boston: Little Brown, 2003). Notes 1 The author recalls the “Drago Segui” anecdote in a Boston newspaper at the time but has been unable to locate the exact citation. 2 Boston Herald, June 24, 1974. 3 Joe Giuliotti, “Sox’ Reliever Drago Rates Among Best in A.L.,” Boston Herald, September 28, 1975. 4 Ibid. 5 Boston Globe, October 6, 1975. 6 Drago’s bloody stocking was reported by Peter Gammons, Boston Globe, October 9, 1975. 7 Reds manager Sparky Anderson called Evans’s catch the greatest he had ever seen. See “Evans Sensational Catch Balks Reds,” San Francisco Examiner, October 22, 1975, cited in Tom Adelman, The Long Ball (Boston: Little Brown, 2003), 352. 8 Mike Ribowsky, “Scoring from the Dugout,” TV Guide, May 3, 1980, 17. 9 “Drago pitches in for friend,” Boston Herald, July 18, 1978. 10 Drago’s reaction to this trade is found in an undocumented article dated April 9, 1981, found in Drago’s clipping file at the Hall of Fame. 11 Drago’s story of his difficulties is characterized by Doug Hornig in his book The Boys of October (Chicago: Contemporary Books, 2003), 93-97. Full Name Richard Anthony Drago Born June 25, 1945 at Toledo, OH (USA) Died November 2, 2023 at Tampa, FL (US) If you can help us improve this player’s biography, contact us.


--- [Red Sox World Series pitcher Dick Drago dead - New York Post] ---
Former Red Sox pitcher Dick Drago dead at 78 Dick Drago, a pitcher on the 1975 Red Sox team, died Thursday at the age of 78 from complications following surgery, the Boston Globe reported. “We’re saddened by the passing of Dick Drago, a staple of the 70’s Red Sox pitching staff and a beloved teammate,” the team tweeted. “We extend our sympathies to the Drago family.” Drago pitched in the majors from 1969-81. He played his first five seasons with the Royals and finished fifth in the 1971 Cy Young, going 17-11 with a 2.98 ERA and 15 complete games. He was traded to the Red Sox, where he was a starter and reliever, in 1974. “That was the most difficult year for me on my arm,” Drago later recalled in an interview. “I would pitch a couple of games in relief. Then a starter would come up lame and I would fill in as the starter. That happened all year and at the end of the year, I felt like I had pitched 300 innings.” In 1975, focused on closing, he saved 15 games for the AL East champs and then two more in the ALCS victory over Oakland where he recorded the final out. He recorded four outs or more in 11 of those 17 saves. “It would have been great to only have to get three outs for a save,” he said in 2009 about the shorter workload for modern relievers. “A lot of times back then, we would go three innings to get a save. I probably would have had a lot more saves if pitching today.” In Game 6 of the World Series against the Reds — widely considered to be the greatest game ever played — Drago pitched three innings of shutout relief in Boston’s victory, though Cincinnati took the title the following night. He was traded to the Angels after the season and gave up Hank Aaron’s 755th home run, the last of Aaron’s career, in a loss to the Brewers. Drago pitched for the Orioles and then returned to the Red Sox before finishing his career with the Mariners. “I was shocked to hear about the sudden passing of my old teammate,” 1975 AL Rookie of the Year and AL MVP Fred Lynn tweeted. “He was our closer before they called it a closer. My thoughts go out to his family. He will be missed.”


--- [Dick Drago, staple of Red Sox pitching staff in 1970s, dies at 78] ---
Dick Drago, staple of Red Sox pitching staff in 1970s, dies at 78 Drago registered the final out of the 1975 American League Championship Series to help the Red Sox clinch the pennant. Dick Drago, who pitched for the Red Sox in the 1970s, died Thursday at age 78. Drago, who spent five years with the club from 1974-1975 and 1978-1980, compiled a 30-29 record and 3.55 ERA over 206 games with Boston. He registered nine complete games, 41 saves, and struck out 305 batters. The Red Sox expressed their condolences Saturday afternoon, referring to him as “a staple” of the staff and a “beloved teammate.” Drago, also known as “The Dragon,” registered the final out of the 1975 American League Championship Series to help the Red Sox clinch the pennant. The Kansas City Royals also shared their sorrow for Drago, who was a member of the franchise’s inaugural team in 1969. In 1976, Drago surrendered the final home run of Hank Aaron’s career, No. 755, in front of a crowd of more than 10,000.
