=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Crystal Cave, Sequoia National Park / 1997 MOUNTAIN ZONE NATIONAL PARKS ...]
Crystal Cave was discovered in 1918 by two park trail construction employees who were fishing along Cascade Creek on their day off. Walter Fry, a former Park Superintendent and caving enthusiast, led the first exploration party into the cave on April 30, 1918.
URL: https://www.mountainzone.com/nationalparks/seki/ccave.html

[Crystal Cave (Sequoia National Park) - Wikipedia]
Crystal Cave is a marble karst cave within Sequoia National Park, in the western Sierra Nevada of California. It is one of at least 240 known caves in Sequoia National Park but the only one accessible to the public.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_Cave_(Sequoia_National_Park)

[PDF Crystal Cave]
Extending across the western part of Sequoia National Park from northwest to southeast, there are numerous outcroppings of white crystalline marble, many of which are known to be cavernous to some extent. Caves have been partially explored in eleven different localities, but Crystal Cave is the only one that has been developed for public use. While the other caves are interesting, chiefly from a
URL: https://npshistory.com/publications/seki/crystal-cave-1946.pdf

[Crystal Cave (Sequoia National Park) Facts for Kids]
Crystal Cave is an amazing cave located inside Sequoia National Park in California. It's special because it's made from a type of rock called marble. This cave is one of over 240 known caves in the park, but it's the only one that visitors like you can explore! Crystal Cave is found in the famous Giant Forest area of the park.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Crystal_Cave_(Sequoia_National_Park)

[Magical underground world / Just-discovered cave in Sequoia ...]
Sep 24, 2006 — Scott McBride, an explorer from San Andreas (Calaveras County) who has discovered 50 caves since 1994, spotted it, loosely filled with dirt and ...
URL: https://www.sfgate.com/news/article/magical-underground-world-just-discovered-cave-2469212.php


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Crystal Cave, Sequoia National Park / 1997 MOUNTAIN ZONE NATIONAL PARKS ...] ---
Discovery Crystal Cave was discovered in 1918 by two park trail construction employees who were fishing along Cascade Creek on their day off. Walter Fry, a former Park Superintendent and caving enthusiast, led the first exploration party into the cave on April 30, 1918. In 1925 Fry wrote: "It is in this cave that nature has lavishly traced her design in decorative glory. Throughout the entire cave the stalactite formations are rich and wonderfully varied in size, form and color. In some of the chambers the ceiling is a mass of stalactites, some very large, others tapering down to needle points. Others drop down from the roof (in) great folds of massive draperies, while yet others are great fluted columns of stalagmites of surpassing symmetry and beauty." Tickets Anyone wishing to visit Crystal Cave must be part of a guided tour. Tour tickets are not sold at the cave entrance. They must be purchased in advance at Foothills or Lodgepole visitor centers in Sequoia National Park. After purchasing tickets allow 1 ½ hours to arrive at the cave. Location Crystal Cave is located off the Generals Highway in Sequoia National Park, between the Ash Mountain entrance and Giant Forest. To reach the cave, drive down the scenic, winding, paved road to the cave parking lot. Hike down the half-mile trail along beautiful Cascade Creek, where you will be met by a guide at the cave entrance. The cave is not wheelchair accessible. No buses, trailers, or vehicles over 20 feet long are permitted on Crystal Cave Road. Vans are acceptable. Touring the Cave Before passing through the Spider Web Gate, your guide will give a brief history of the cave and point out the unique formations and features. During the 45 minute tour, you will be led from room to room on paved lighted pathways, pausing to listen to the water and echoes in the cave in total darkness. Tours are limited to 70 persons. Temperature in the cave is a constant 48 degrees F (9 degrees C). Sweaters or jackets are recommended. No strollers, tripods or backpacks are allowed in the cave. Schedule Cost Other Tours Wild cave tours, led by Sequoia Natural History Association guides, allow you to explore the deep recesses of the cave in areas closed to the general public. Tours are limited to six people. Selection is by lottery. For more information about wild cave tours, historic cave tours and other special programs, call (209) 565-3759 Top of Page Sequoia & Kings Home National Parks Home


--- [Crystal Cave (Sequoia National Park) - Wikipedia] ---
Crystal Cave is a marble karst cave within Sequoia National Park, in the western Sierra Nevada of California. It is one of at least 240 known caves in Sequoia National Park but the only one accessible to the public. Crystal Cave is in the Giant Forest area, between the Ash Mountain entrance of the park and the Giant Forest museum.
The cave is a constant 48 °F (9 °C). It is accessible by Sequoia Park Conservancy guided tours only. Tickets are not sold on-site, but must be bought on SequoiaParksConservancy.org.




--- [PDF Crystal Cave] ---
6 captures 07 Apr 2023 - 08 Feb 2026 Jan FEB Mar 08 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - http://web.archive.org/web/20260208150334/https://npshistory.com/publications/seki/crystal-cave-1946.pdf


--- [Crystal Cave (Sequoia National Park) Facts for Kids] ---
Crystal Cave (Sequoia National Park) facts for kids Quick facts for kids Crystal Cave | | |---|---| | Calcite formations in Crystal Cave | | | Location | Sequoia National Park, Tulare County, California, United States | | Length | 2.42 miles (3.89 km) | | Discovery | April 28, 1918 by Alex Medley and Cassius Webster | | Geology | Marble | | Access | Fee | Crystal Cave is an amazing cave located inside Sequoia National Park in California. It's special because it's made from a type of rock called marble. This cave is one of over 240 known caves in the park, but it's the only one that visitors like you can explore! Crystal Cave is found in the famous Giant Forest area of the park. This is between the park's Ash Mountain entrance and the Giant Forest museum. Contents Discovering Crystal Cave Crystal Cave was first found on April 28, 1918. Two explorers, Alex Medley and Cassius Webster, were the ones who stumbled upon its hidden entrance. Imagine being the first people to see such a beautiful underground world! Inside Crystal Cave When you step inside Crystal Cave, you'll notice it's always the same temperature. It stays at a cool 48 degrees Fahrenheit (about 9 degrees Celsius) all year round. This constant temperature helps to keep the cave's delicate formations safe. What is Marble? Crystal Cave is known as a "marble cave." Marble is a type of rock that forms when another rock, usually limestone, gets heated and squeezed deep inside the Earth. This process makes the rock very hard and often gives it beautiful patterns. Cave Formations Inside Crystal Cave, you'll see many amazing formations made of a mineral called calcite. These formations grow very slowly over thousands of years as water drips through the rock. Some common formations you might see include: - Stalactites: These hang down from the cave ceiling, like icicles. - Stalagmites: These grow up from the cave floor, often directly below stalactites. - Flowstones: These look like frozen waterfalls, forming when water flows over cave walls and floors. - Draperies: These are thin, wavy sheets of rock that hang from the ceiling, looking like curtains. Visiting Crystal Cave If you want to visit Crystal Cave, you can only go with a guided tour. These tours are led by experts from the Sequoia Park Conservancy. It's important to remember that you cannot buy tickets at the cave itself. You need to buy your tickets online beforehand through Recreation.Gov. This helps manage the number of visitors and protect the cave.


--- [Magical underground world / Just-discovered cave in Sequoia ...] ---
Four amateur cave explorers in Sequoia National Park have discovered a vast cave formed 1 million years ago, a labyrinth that stretches more than 1,000 feet into a mountain and features some of the most beautiful rock formations ever seen. Millions of crystals along its walls shimmer like diamonds. Translucent mineral "curtains" hang from the ceiling. Flowstones that resemble spilled paint dot the floor. A lake that might be 20 feet deep fills one of the cave's five known rooms, and passages leading into darkness suggest there is still much more to see. Advertisement Article continues below this ad The discovery has excited geologists and cave explorers nationwide because although caves are discovered with almost mundane regularity -- 17 of the 240 caves in Sequoia and Kings Canyon parks have been found since 2003 -- it is rare to find one so grand. The cave, named Ursa Minor, has been called one of the most significant finds in a generation. "There are things in this cave that could really open windows into our knowledge of geologic history and the formation of caves throughout the West," said Joel Despain, the parks' cave manager. "We're just beginning to understand the scientific ramifications of this." Park officials will not pinpoint the cave's location, saying only that it is in the Kaweah River watershed and will probably never be open to the public. Explorers from the nonprofit Cave Research Foundation discovered it on Aug. 19. Through good luck and better eyesight, they happened upon Ursa Minor while headed to lunch. Don't let Google decide who you trust. While most people envision caves as big holes in the ground, cave mouths are usually quite small -- in this case, about the size of a softball. Scott McBride, an explorer from San Andreas (Calaveras County) who has discovered 50 caves since 1994, spotted it, loosely filled with dirt and rock. Fissures around the opening, something a casual observer would miss but a seasoned caver knows might suggest a cave entrance, suggested it was worth a closer look. Advertisement Article continues below this ad "It looked interesting to me, so I broke out my flashlight," he said. "Sure enough, I could see darkness in the hole, which is a good sign." He kept digging, and when the mouth was just big enough, he poked his head inside. The hole kept going, so he called out to his colleagues to bring shovels. Within a couple of hours, they'd opened up a hole big enough for McBride to squeeze through. He scooted 25 feet or so down a slight incline, his headlamp lighting the way. He landed in a room so big he couldn't see the other side. "By that point, I could see that it went back at least 35 feet, and I thought, 'OK, this is a cave,' " he said. "I knew pretty quickly that this was significant." Advertisement Article continues below this ad McBride climbed out to tell his friends. They went for lunch and returned with climbing gear. After 90 minutes of digging, they'd opened up a bigger hole. McBride went first, followed by Mike White. They made it to the room McBride had already seen, turned a corner and discovered the passage descended 90 feet straight down. Excited, they rappelled into the void, their headlamps lighting the way. They called back to their colleagues, Allen Hager and Tom LeFrank, from the bottom. No one heard them. They were too far down. "They'd been yelling at us for 10 minutes, and we couldn't even hear them," said Hager, a caver from Los Angeles. Advertisement Article continues below this ad When they finally got the word, they too went into the hole. The four men spent about an hour exploring the cave in awe before climbing out to alert park officials. "I was absolutely floored," Hager recalled. "Stunned." Cavers have a tradition of allowing the person who discovers a cave to name it, and McBride chose "Ursa Minor" because they found a bear skeleton inside and because the cave shimmers like the stars of the Little Dipper. "I've never seen a cave sparkle like this one," McBride said. "When you shine your light around the room, all the facets reflect your light like a million diamonds." Advertisement Article continues below this ad The four explorers have joined Despain and other geologists in mapping the cave, but they haven't found the end. The cave features five rooms -- the biggest is about 200 feet wide and 50 feet tall -- and at least five leads, or passages, leading farther underground. "We think we've seen about 1,000 feet of cave passage, but there are areas we can see but haven't explored," Despain said. "We don't know how big this cave is or how much more there might be." Those who have seen Ursa Minor -- only a dozen people have been allowed in -- said the most impressive thing about it isn't its size but its features. The floor is covered with stalagmites and flowstones that Despain said look "like someone poured taffy on the floor." Thin, hollow stalactites called soda straws hang from above; the longest are 6 feet. There are long, thin blades of rock called cave curtains, which are formed by water flowing from overhangs. Some are translucent; others are red, orange or brown. Here and there are piles of cave pearls, calcified balls of sand as large as cherry tomatoes. Advertisement Article continues below this ad "You stand in one of these rooms and it's just jaw-dropping," Despain said. "It's just beautiful." The cave is littered with animal skeletons and teems with spiders, centipedes, millipedes and other invertebrates. Experts believe Ursa Minor will feature unique species found nowhere else, adding to the 27 never-before-seen species discovered during a recent study of invertebrates in the park's 239 other caves. Park officials are inviting experts in various fields from throughout the West to help explore the cave, and many are jumping at the chance to visit a pristine cave and see a portion of the Sierra Nevada from the inside. "Ursa Minor is a very important discovery that likely will help us to understand how caves in the Sierra Nevada form, and perhaps even tell us something about the mountain range itself," said Greg Stock, a geologist at Yosemite National Park who is among those invited to tour the cave. Advertisement Article continues below this ad For now, the top priority is thoroughly mapping the cave and installing a gate at its mouth to keep sightseers and vandals at bay. No more than a few dozen people will ever see Ursa Minor, and those who have said they'll never forget it. "It was exhilarating and overwhelming," McBride said. "You constantly look for these things, and cavers always joke about finding the big one. To find the one we always joked about is just amazing. This is the creme de la creme of finding caves."
