=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[European Fencing Championships at a glance - FIE]
Jun 27, 2016 · Italy have also won 10 gold medals in women's team foil. France (silver) and Ukraine (bronze) finished behind Russia, recording the exact same podium in this event as at the previous two editions of the European Championships.
URL: https://fie.org/articles/396

[World number one Errigo claims women's foil gold at European ...]
Jun 21, 2016 · The London 2012 Olympic silver medallist then moved into the gold medal contest for the first time by claiming a 15-10 win over Russia’s Larisa Korobeynikova.
URL: https://www.insidethegames.biz/articles/world-number-one-errigo-claims-womens-foil-gold-at-european-fencing-championships

[European Fencing Championships]
All events ; 1, Arianna Errigo · Italy ; 2, Sofya Velikaya · Russia ; 3, Valentina Vezzali · Italy ; 4, Elisa Di Francisca · Italy ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Fencing_Championships

[News - Poland wins gold in women's foil event]
Jun 25, 2023 — Poland's Julia WALCZYK-KLIMASZYK withstood the pressure and secured the host nation's first medal in the fencing event of the European Games Krakow-Malopolska ...
URL: https://www.eurofencing.info/news/poland-wins-gold-in-women-rsquo-s-foil-event-n488567.htm

[Team USA wins first fencing team gold medal | abc10.com]
Aug 1, 2024 · The U.S. team won 45-39 over Italy, which is the top-ranked women's foil team in the world. It's the first gold medal for the United States in a team fencing event.
URL: https://www.abc10.com/article/sports/olympics/usa-gold-medal-women-fencing-team/275-08c625e3-8d95-4f19-afab-fc105d16c3c9


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [European Fencing Championships at a glance - FIE] ---
Men Yannick Borel (FRA) won the gold medal in men's individual épée. He had previously finished 11th (2011) and 25th (2012) in this event at the European Championships. The last five editions of this event have now been won by five different athletes: Borel, Gauthier Grumier (FRA), Andras Redli (HUN), Jörg Fiedler (GER) and Pavel Sukhov (RUS). Borel handed France its first back-to-back victories in men's individual épée since Hugues Obry (FRA) and Rémy Delhomme (FRA) won for France in 1998 and 1999 respectively. French fencers have now won men's individual épée six times, second only to Hungary (7). Last year's silver medallist Max Heinzer (SUI) again took home the silver medal. He has now claimed five medals in this event, but never the gold one (S2-B3). Timur Safin (RUS) won his first gold medal in men's individual foil. At the 2014 European Fencing Championships Safin claimed the bronze medal with Russia in men's team foil, but finished 11th in the individual event. Safin became the third Russian to win this event, after Alexey Cheremisinov (RUS) in 2012 and Dmitriy Shevchenko (RUS) in 1994. Erwan Le Pechoux (FRA) claimed the silver medal, his third in men's individual foil at the European Championships. He previously took home the bronze in 2007 and 2014. Benedikt Wagner (GER) became the third German to win men's individual sabre, after Felix Becker (GER) in 1993 and Wiradech Kothny (GER) in 1999. Five-time champion Alexey Yakimenko (RUS) took home the bronze medal. It was his 12th medal in total in this event (G5-S4-B3). Twelve medals in a single individual event is a record at the European Championships (both men and women). France won men's team épée in back-to-back editions for the first time since 2002-2003. It was France's 11th medal in this event at the European Championships (G7-S2-B2), surpassing Hungary (10) for most in this event. Italy finished in second place and claimed their first medal in this event since wining bronze in 2009. Ukraine (bronze) bagged their eighth medal in this event. Only France (11) and Hungary (10) have won more in men's team épée. - Russia won the European title in men's team foil for the second time, after 2004. - Russia are now one of four countries with multiple gold medals in this event, after Italy (8), France (4) and Germany (4). Italy finished in second place, claiming a record 13th medal in this event at the European Championships. Russia follow with 12 medals. Great Britain claimed their third medal in this event, all bronze (2010, 2013, 2016). Russia won men's team sabre for the 10th time. Also in women's team sabre did Russia win their 10th gold medal, equalling the record for most gold medals in a specific team event. Italy have also won 10 gold medals in women's team foil. Women Simona Gherman (ROU) equalled Ildiko Mincza-Nebald (HUN) and Imke Duplitzer (GER) on a record two gold medals in women's individual épée. Gherman had previously won this event in 2012. She also claimed a bronze medal in 2014. Ana Maria Popescu (ROU) took home the silver medal, her fourth medal in this event in total (G1-S2-B1). She equalled Gianna Hablutzel-Burki (SUI, S2-B2) on a record four medals in women's individual épée. Arianna Errigo (ITA) dethroned Elisa Di Francisca (ITA) who had won women's individual foil at the last three European Championships. Di Francisca finished fifth. Errigo had previously claimed the bronze medal in this event on three occasions: 2009, 2012 and 2015. Italian fencers have now won women's individual foil at seven of the last eight European Championships: Di Francisca four times, Valentina Vezzali (ITA) two times and Errigo once. The only exception in this run was Inna Deriglazova (RUS) who won in 2012. Sofya Velikaya (RUS) successfully defended her title in women's individual sabre. Last year Velikaya ended Olga Kharlan's (UKR) four-edition winning streak in this event For Velikaya it was her fourth gold medal in women's individual sabre, second only to Kharlan's five. Kharlan took home the bronze medal, meaning Velikaya (G4-S3) and Kharlan (G5-S1-B1) both joined Ilaria Bianco (ITA, G1-S1-B5) on a record seven medals in women's individual sabre. Estonia won women's team épée for the second time, after their gold medal in 2013. Estonia claimed the silver medal in 2015. Romania had won this event at the last two European Championships, but took home the bronze medal this year. France claimed the silver medal, their best result in women's team épée as they had claimed the bronze medal on three previous occasions. Russia broke Italy's seven-year winning streak in women's team foil at the European Championships, claiming their first gold medal since 2008. Italy (silver) claimed their 15th medal in this event at the European Championships, one shy of Russia's 16. Russia, Italy and France have now finished on the podium in this event in four of the last five editions of the European Championships, including the last three. Russia won women's team sabre for the fifth consecutive time and for a record 10th time. Also in men's team sabre did Russia win their 10th gold medal, equalling the record for most gold medals in a specific team event. Italy have also won 10 gold medals in women's team foil. France (silver) and Ukraine (bronze) finished behind Russia, recording the exact same podium in this event as at the previous two editions of the European Championships. All photo by Augusto Bizzi here. All the matches on Youtube.


--- [World number one Errigo claims women's foil gold at European ...] ---
No content


--- [European Fencing Championships] ---
The European Fencing Championships is an annual top-level European fencing competition organized by the European Fencing Confederation.


--- [News - Poland wins gold in women's foil event] ---
News Poland wins gold in women’s foil event COMPETITION Poland’s Julia WALCZYK-KLIMASZYK withstood the pressure and secured the host nation’s first medal in the fencing event of the European Games Krakow-Malopolska 2023. Entering the competition as the highest ranked fencer and the biggest favourite for the gold medal, she passed the pool with a 5/6 record to earn herself the 5th seed entering the direct elimination. To reach the quarterfinal, WALCZYK-KLIMASZYK beat Dorja BLAZIC (CRO) 15-7 and Kata KONDRICZ (HUN) 15-7. In the quarterfinal, WALCZYK-KLIMASZYK faced Lior DRUCK (ISR) in a close match, but the Poznan fencer came out on top 15-13 to reach the semifinal. Malina CALUGREANU (ROU) was the opponent in the semifinal, which was a real nailbiter, but lost to WALCZYK-KLIMASZYK in the priority minute and secured the bronze medal. Despite her loss, the Romanian was content. - I am very happy today, it was one of the best fencing performances in my life and I am very satisfied with what I did today, she said at a press conference following the competition. WALCZYK-KLIMASZYK’s opponent in the final, Flora PASZTOR (HUN), reached the semifinal match by defeating Ester SCHREIBER (SWE), Olivia WOHLGEMUTH (AUT), and Hanna LYCZBINSKA (POL). In the semifinal, PASZTOR comfortably defeated Gili KURITZKY (ISR) 15-7 to reach the gold medal match. In the final, carried forward by the frenetic home crowd, WALCZYK-KLIMASZYK took a comfortable lead in the final against Flora PASZTOR (HUN) which she managed to keep over the finish line and win the gold medal in women’s foil. The new European Games champion said: - It is amazing to win here in Krakﺃ٣w and to have the support of my family and everyone else. It is never an easy match against Flora, but every time I got tired the crowd would give me so much energy. However, the big story of the day was 14-year old Gili KURITZKY (ISR) who secured a bronze medal. Ranked 250th in the world senior ranking, KURITZKY fought from below and eliminated established fencers like Kristina PETROVA (UKR) and Erica CIPRESSA (ITA) on her way to the sensational medal, her first ever at the senior level. The women foil fencers will return to Tauron Arena later in the week for the team competition, which also acts as an olympic qualifier. European Games Krakow-Malopolska 2023 is the Europe’s biggest multidisciplinary sporting event in 2023. More than 7 thousands athlete are competing in 26 sports and 29 disciplines for 253 gold medals. More than that, European Games 2023 are part of the qualification process for the Olympic Games in Paris 2024 in 19 sports. This great celebration of sports starts with opening ceremony in Krakow on 21st of June. The closing ceremony will take place on July 2nd.


--- [Team USA wins first fencing team gold medal | abc10.com] ---
PARIS, France — Lee Kiefer and Team USA defeated Italy to capture the gold medal in the women's fencing team foil competition. The U.S. team won 45-39 over Italy, which is the top-ranked women's foil team in the world. It's the first gold medal for the United States in a team fencing event. Team USA is led by Kiefer, who has won the last two Olympic gold medals in the women's individual foil event, including in Paris on Sunday. Kiefer is the first American fencer to capture three Olympic gold medals. The U.S. team jumped out to an early lead with Kiefer and Lauren Scruggs. Team USA led after every relay and took a commanding 40-32 lead into the final relay. Italy's Arriana Errigo worked to erase the U.S. lead with a 7-2 run to start the final relay. But Scruggs defended well and ensured the U.S. won with a 45-39 mark as time expired. Jacqueline Dubrovich and Maia Weintraub also competed in the match for the United States. The only previous time Team USA reached the gold medal round in this event was at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, where they received the silver medal after losing to Russia. The men's only silver medal in the team foil event came at the 1904 St. Louis Olympics. Thursday's match marks the fifth fencing gold medal all-time for the United States, which includes individual men's and women's events. Italy leads the sport with 49 gold medals. Japan won the bronze medal after beating Canada.
