=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Palacio de Aguas Corrientes - Wikipedia]
The Palace of Running Waters (Spanish: Palacio de Aguas Corrientes) is an architecturally significant water pumping station in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and the former headquarters of state-owned company Obras Sanitarias de la Nación. It is currently administered by Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos (AySA). The building, designed and completed in the 19th century, was originally built to host the ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palacio_de_Aguas_Corrientes

[Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, Buenos Aires - gpsmycity.com]
The Palace of Running Waters (Palacio de Aguas Corrientes) stands as a significant architectural gem situated in Buenos Aires. Once serving as the central hub for Obras Sanitarias de la Nación, the building now falls under the administration of Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos (AySA). Designed by architect Carlos Nyströmer, the structure started as a water pumping station in 1877 and was ...
URL: https://www.gpsmycity.com/attractions/palacio-de-aguas-corrientes-15295.html

[Palacio de Aguas Corrientes - Graces Guide]
The Palace of Running Waters (Spanish: Palacio de Aguas Corrientes) in Buenos Aires, Argentina was built in the late 19th century to house drinking water reservoirs in grand style. It was also the former headquarters of state-owned company Obras Sanitarias de la Nación. It is currently administered by Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos (AySA).
URL: https://www.gracesguide.co.uk/Palacio_de_Aguas_Corrientes

[Palace of Running Waters | Buenos Aires, Argentina | imaginoso]
Architecture full/alternative names Engineer Guillermo Villanueva Large Repository,Museum of Water and the History of Sanitation,Museum of Water built 1887-1894 culture Argentine style/period Eclecticism work type water pumping station, museum material brick, cast iron, terracotta technique masonry architect Olaf Boye, Carlos Nyströmer
URL: https://imaginoso.com/t/architecture/palace-running-waters-buenos-aires-argentina

[Running Water Palace (Palacio de Aguas Corrientes)]
El Palacio de Aguas Corrientes (llamado oficialmente Gran Depósito Ingeniero Guillermo Villanueva) es un edificio emblemático de la ciudad de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Fue construido para alojar los tanques de suministro de agua corriente de la creciente ciudad a fines del siglo XIX, envueltos en una arquitectura suntuosa de materiales importados.
URL: https://wikimapia.org/201801/Running-Water-Palace-Palacio-de-Aguas-Corrientes


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Palacio de Aguas Corrientes - Wikipedia] ---
The Palace of Running Waters (Spanish: Palacio de Aguas Corrientes) is an architecturally significant water pumping station in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and the former headquarters of state-owned company Obras Sanitarias de la Nación. It is currently administered by Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos (AySA).
The building, designed and completed in the 19th century, was originally built to host the water tanks. Inaugurated in 1894, the palace is one of the most notable eclectic-style buildings in Argentina. It was declared a National Historic Monument of Argentina in 1989.




--- [Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, Buenos Aires - gpsmycity.com] ---
Palacio de Aguas Corrientes, Buenos Aires The Palace of Running Waters (Palacio de Aguas Corrientes) stands as a significant architectural gem situated in Buenos Aires. Once serving as the central hub for Obras Sanitarias de la Nación, the building now falls under the administration of Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos (AySA). Designed by architect Carlos Nyströmer, the structure started as a water pumping station in 1877 and was finished in 1894, replacing an unsightly water tower on Lorea Plaza, now Congressional Plaza, in Balvanera. The grand building still serves as a functional pumping station, adorned with over 300,000 colorful tiles from Royal Doulton, featuring a tin mansard roof and shields representing Argentina's 14 provinces at that time. Two caryatids guard the building entrance. The property includes landscaped gardens with a sculpture by Norwegian artist Olaf Boye, honoring Guillermo Villanueva, the first Director of the Buenos Aires Water Supply and Drainage Company, a British-owned waterworks established in 1869. After the British-owned company was nationalized in 1892, the building became owned by the City of Buenos Aires. This company later became OSN and was reprivatized in 1993 under a 30-year contract. The contract was terminated in 2006, transferring the property to the state-owned AySA. Today, the palace holds AySA offices, Historic Archives, and a small water works museum. The Palace of Running Waters occupies a notable place within the pages of the book "Santa Evita" penned by Tomas Eloy Martinez. Additionally, its presence is acknowledged in his work titled "The Tango Singer". Designed by architect Carlos Nyströmer, the structure started as a water pumping station in 1877 and was finished in 1894, replacing an unsightly water tower on Lorea Plaza, now Congressional Plaza, in Balvanera. The grand building still serves as a functional pumping station, adorned with over 300,000 colorful tiles from Royal Doulton, featuring a tin mansard roof and shields representing Argentina's 14 provinces at that time. Two caryatids guard the building entrance. The property includes landscaped gardens with a sculpture by Norwegian artist Olaf Boye, honoring Guillermo Villanueva, the first Director of the Buenos Aires Water Supply and Drainage Company, a British-owned waterworks established in 1869. After the British-owned company was nationalized in 1892, the building became owned by the City of Buenos Aires. This company later became OSN and was reprivatized in 1993 under a 30-year contract. The contract was terminated in 2006, transferring the property to the state-owned AySA. Today, the palace holds AySA offices, Historic Archives, and a small water works museum. The Palace of Running Waters occupies a notable place within the pages of the book "Santa Evita" penned by Tomas Eloy Martinez. Additionally, its presence is acknowledged in his work titled "The Tango Singer". Want to visit this sight? Check out these Self-Guided Walking Tours in Buenos Aires. Alternatively, you can download the mobile app "GPSmyCity: Walks in 1K+ Cities" from Apple App Store or Google Play Store. The app turns your mobile device to a personal tour guide and it works offline, so no data plan is needed when traveling abroad. Palacio de Aguas Corrientes on Map Sight Name: Palacio de Aguas Corrientes Sight Location: Buenos Aires, Argentina (See walking tours in Buenos Aires) Sight Type: Attraction/Landmark Sight Location: Buenos Aires, Argentina (See walking tours in Buenos Aires) Sight Type: Attraction/Landmark Walking Tours in Buenos Aires, Argentina Create Your Own Walk in Buenos Aires Creating your own self-guided walk in Buenos Aires is easy and fun. Choose the city attractions that you want to see and a walk route map will be created just for you. You can even set your hotel as the start point of the walk. Palermo Area Walking Tour Palermo is the largest neighborhood in Buenos Aires and one of its most historically layered areas, evolving from rural outskirts into a defining part of the city’s cultural life. The name “Palermo” dates to the early colonial period. One widely accepted explanation links it to a Franciscan monastery dedicated to Saint Benedict of Palermo, a Sicilian saint of African descent whose image was... view more Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 3.5 Km or 2.2 Miles Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 3.5 Km or 2.2 Miles Buenos Aires Introduction Walking Tour Buenos Aires, the capital of Argentina, has a history marked by exploration, colonial rivalry, mass immigration, and political change. Its name derives from the Spanish dedication “Our Lady Saint Mary of the Good Air,” a title of the Virgin Mary venerated by sailors from Sardinia. The phrase “Buen Aire” originally referred to the clean, favorable winds near a sanctuary in the city of... view more Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 4.7 Km or 2.9 Miles Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 4.7 Km or 2.9 Miles Recoleta Neighborhood Walking Tour One of Buenos Aires’ most beautiful neighborhoods, Recoleta is the city’s heart of art and elegance, grace and modernism, culture and leisure. Here you will find lots of things to do, like visiting museums, galleries and cultural centers; relaxing in one of the beautiful parks and plazas; or sampling the delicious local food. This walking tour along Recoleta begins at the Ateneo Grand... view more Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 3.4 Km or 2.1 Miles This walking tour along Recoleta begins at the Ateneo Grand... view more Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 3.4 Km or 2.1 Miles May Avenue Walking Tour May Avenue is one of Buenos Aires’ most emblematic boulevards, a grand east–west axis that reflects the city’s political, cultural, and architectural evolution. Its name honors the May Revolution of 1810, when residents of Buenos Aires removed the Spanish viceroy and initiated the process that ultimately led to Argentina’s independence. Plans for a monumental boulevard connecting the... view more Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 2.3 Km or 1.4 Miles Plans for a monumental boulevard connecting the... view more Tour Duration: 2 Hour(s) Travel Distance: 2.3 Km or 1.4 Miles Useful Travel Guides for Planning Your Trip Popular Palermo Restaurants, Buenos Aires Although many visitors tend to think that Argentina is a meat and potatoes country, the rich cultural heritage from Italy, Spain, Portugal, and other European countries provide a veritable smorgasboard of dining options. Palermo is the barrio in Buenos Aires often referred to as 'The Restaurant... Buenos Aires: 16 Shopping Ideas for Travelers Other than a cool place to be and a dream destination for many adventure-minded folk, Buenos Aires is a great culture hub where one can experience first-hand all that Argentina has to offer - great football, terrific wine, killer steaks, and much much more. This guide is to help you steer yourself... Top 7 Cafes in Palermo, Buenos Aires The word "Palermo", believe it or not, may refer not just to Sicily, Italy, but also to Buenos Aires, Argentina. Indeed, this neighborhood (barrio) is largest in the city and is trendy and bohemian, renowned for its boutique shopping, cafes, restaurants, bars, and nightclubs. Oftentimes,... Top 5 Bars in San Telmo, Buenos Aires With its cobbled streets, colonial era buildings and vibrant music and art scene, San Telmo is a great place to soak up the eclectic nature of Buenos Aires’ nightlife. The area boasts dozens of bars and cafes, with some of the city’s oldest lying next to the more modern. Indeed, San Telmo...


--- [Palacio de Aguas Corrientes - Graces Guide] ---
Palacio de Aguas Corrientes The Palace of Running Waters (Spanish: Palacio de Aguas Corrientes) in Buenos Aires, Argentina was built in the late 19th century to house drinking water reservoirs in grand style. It was also the former headquarters of state-owned company Obras Sanitarias de la Nación. It is currently administered by Agua y Saneamientos Argentinos (AySA). Construction was undertaken between 1887 and 1894, under the Swedish engineer Olaf Boye and the Norwegian architect Carlos Nyströmer, who worked based on the project drawn up by the British engineer John Frederick La Trobe Bateman. Inside there are 12 tanks that with a total capacity of 72 million litres, supported by iron structures fabricated in Belgium The tanks held water until 1978 and have since been converted into a large archive housing 2.5 million historical plans of sanitary facilities, magazines and related publications. The building also houses the offices of the Aysa company and the Museum of Water and Sanitary History. See Wikipedia entry and here[1] The building was featured in Engineering 1896/02/07, where it was described as a service reservoir. The article was based on a Paper by R. C. Parsons, and notes that it was designed by Bateman, Parsons, and Bateman, engineers to the Sanitary Improvement Works of that city. The building is 320 ft. square and 66 ft. to the top of the parapet, and was capable of containing 16,000,000 gallons of water. It is placed on the highest ground in the city, where it faces a wide street in one of the best residential districts. The Argentine Government, when deciding to build this reservoir, arranged that the external appearance should not only be in keeping with the handsome buildings in the neighbourhood, but also that it should serve as a monument of the sanitary improvement works of the city. The terra-cotta, which was supplied Doulton and Co., of London, and the glazed ware by The Burmantofts Company of Leeds, consisted of about 170,000 blocks, and in addition to these about 130,000 glazed bricks were used.


--- [Palace of Running Waters | Buenos Aires, Argentina | imaginoso] ---
architecture Palace of Running Waters Buenos Aires, Argentina Palacio de Aguas Corrientes [Spanish] Gran Depósito Ingeniero Guillermo Villanueva [Spanish] Museo del Agua y de la Historia Sanitaria [Spanish] Museo del Agua [Spanish] Architecture full/alternative names Engineer Guillermo Villanueva Large Repository, Museum of Water and the History of Sanitation, Museum of Water built 1887-1894 culture style/period work type material technique architect Specifications height 21.0 m Geography local language location name Buenos Aires, Argentina [Spanish]


--- [Running Water Palace (Palacio de Aguas Corrientes)] ---
Running Water Palace (Palacio de Aguas Corrientes) (Buenos Aires) Argentina / Buenos Aires / Buenos Aires / Avenida Córdoba World / Argentina / Buenos Aires / Buenos Aires World / Argentina / Ciudad de Buenos Aires interesting place, historical building, architectural heritage Designed by the English engineering company Bateman, Parsons & Bateman and Swedish Carlos Nyströmer was in charge of a milestone project at that time. This deposit for running water constructed between 1877 and 1894 was the largest in the city and today is out of work. The building looks colossal and imposing due to its eclectic and excessive style. El Palacio de Aguas Corrientes (llamado oficialmente Gran Depósito Ingeniero Guillermo Villanueva) es un edificio emblemático de la ciudad de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Fue construido para alojar los tanques de suministro de agua corriente de la creciente ciudad a fines del siglo XIX, envueltos en una arquitectura suntuosa de materiales importados. Se encuentra en la Avenida Córdoba nº 1950, barrio de Balvanera y es un Monumento Histórico Nacional. El Palacio de Aguas Corrientes (llamado oficialmente Gran Depósito Ingeniero Guillermo Villanueva) es un edificio emblemático de la ciudad de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Fue construido para alojar los tanques de suministro de agua corriente de la creciente ciudad a fines del siglo XIX, envueltos en una arquitectura suntuosa de materiales importados. Se encuentra en la Avenida Córdoba nº 1950, barrio de Balvanera y es un Monumento Histórico Nacional. Nearby cities: Coordinates: 34°36'1"S 58°23'42"W - Lavalle Street (Pedestrian Zone) 1.3 km - Former "Ciudad Deportiva Boca Juniors" 4.2 km - Rocha`s Bay 5.3 km - ex cerveceria Bieckert 22 km - Balneario Nacional De Ezeiza 23 km - Pista para ciclistas - en Tigre 26 km - Wipeout TV gameshow filming location 36 km - pte peron 47 km - Zoo 54 km - The Juanico winery 195 km - Dr. Houssay Park 0.3 km - Pavilion América 0.4 km - Hospital de Clinicas José de San Martín 0.5 km - Estacionamiento - UBA 0.6 km - Once Neighborhood 1.2 km - Barrio Norte (Northern Neighborhood) 1.2 km - Balvanera neighborhood 1.2 km - San Nicolás neighborhood 1.4 km - Recoleta neighborhood 1.9 km - Palermo neighborhood 3.7 km
