=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Isham Warren Garrott - Wikipedia]
Isham Warren Garrott (c. 1816 - June 17, 1863) was a colonel in the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. Garrott was killed during the Vicksburg Campaign before his commission as a brigadier general was confirmed by the Confederate Senate or delivered and became effective.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isham_Warren_Garrott

[North Alabama Civil War Generals:]
Like his father, he was prominent in the abolitionist movement and the pre-war Republican Party. In 1861, David Birney raised the 23d Pennsylvania Infantry ...
URL: https://huntsvillehistorycollection.org/hhc/docs/pdf/book2/North_Alabama_Generals.pdf?a=book

[GEN Isham Warren Garrott (1816-1863) - Find a Grave Memorial]
A member of the Whig political party, he was an active Mason, a member of the Siloam Baptist Church, an incorporator of the Marion and Alabama River Transportation Company, and President of the Board of Trustees at Howard College in Marion. When the Civil War broke out, he formed the 20th Alabama Infantry Regiment and was appointed its Colonel.
URL: https://www.findagrave.com/memorial/9115/isham_warren-garrott

[Garrott, Isham Warren - NCpedia]
1816-17 June 1863 "Isham W. Garrott, 1816-1863". Photograph. [between 1861 and 1863]. Civil War Photograph Collection. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. Isham Warren Garrott, lawyer and Confederate soldier, was born in Wake County, the son of Isham Garrott, one of eleven sons of Thomas Garrott, and Mary Sims Garrott.
URL: https://www.ncpedia.org/biography/garrott-isham-warren

[Chapter 142: 7. Isham Warren Garrott - The Encyclopedia of ...]
Isham Garrott served in the Alabama legislature as a Whig (1845-50) but was a presidential elector for Southern Democrat John C. Breckinridge in 1860. After Alabama seceded, he and Edmund W. Pettus raised the 20th Alabama Infantry Regiment. Garrott was elected its colonel on September 16, 1861.
URL: https://zoboko.com/text/8el0q982/the-encyclopedia-of-confederate-generals-the-definitive-guide-to-the-426-leaders-of-the-souths-war-effort/142


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Isham Warren Garrott - Wikipedia] ---
No content


--- [North Alabama Civil War Generals:] ---
No content


--- [GEN Isham Warren Garrott (1816-1863) - Find a Grave Memorial] ---
Civil War Confederate Brigadier General. Born in Anson City, North Carolina, he graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1840, and became an attorney in Marion, Alabama. In 1845, he was elected to the Alabama House of Representatives on a split ticket with Andrew B. Moore, and was reelected to his position in 1847. A member of the Whig political party, he was an active Mason, a member of the Siloam Baptist Church, an incorporator of the Marion and Alabama River Transportation Company, and President of the Board of Trustees at Howard College in Marion. When the Civil War broke out, he formed the 20th Alabama Infantry Regiment and was appointed its Colonel. After the death of their leader at the battle of Port Gibson, Mississippi, Garrott took command of Brigadier General Edward D. Tracy's Brigade and joined in the defense of Vicksburg, Mississippi. One day, while bored with his duty during the siege of Vicksburg, he borrowed a rifle and joined a skirmish line to snipe at the Yankees, where he was killed by a Union sharpshooter. His promotion to Brigadier General arrived several days later. In his honor, the Confederates named Fort Garrott, near Vicksburg, after him. The fort was never taken, despite repeated tries by the Union Army, during the campaign. The exact location of his remains is unknown, having been hastily buried in a yard in downtown Vicksburg during the Siege. He has a memorial marker for him in the Soldiers Rest Confederate Cemetery, which is located in the Cedar Hill (Old Vicksburg City) Cemetery. The following is from ''Confederate military history of Alabama : Alabama during the Civil War, 1861-1865'', pg. 84, report of General Stevenson by Wheeler, Joseph, 1836-1906 ''General Stevenson in his report of the siege speaks most highly of Lieutenant-Colonel Pettus and Colonel Garrott. Mentioned by Gen. S. D. Lee: ''The officers who attracted my attention were Col. Isham W. Garrott, of 20th Alabama, the pure patriot and gallant soldier who was killed on June 17th while in the fearless discharge of his duties, respected and loved by all who knew him; a more attentive and vigilant was not in our service.'' Civil War Confederate Brigadier General. Born in Anson City, North Carolina, he graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1840, and became an attorney in Marion, Alabama. In 1845, he was elected to the Alabama House of Representatives on a split ticket with Andrew B. Moore, and was reelected to his position in 1847. A member of the Whig political party, he was an active Mason, a member of the Siloam Baptist Church, an incorporator of the Marion and Alabama River Transportation Company, and President of the Board of Trustees at Howard College in Marion. When the Civil War broke out, he formed the 20th Alabama Infantry Regiment and was appointed its Colonel. After the death of their leader at the battle of Port Gibson, Mississippi, Garrott took command of Brigadier General Edward D. Tracy's Brigade and joined in the defense of Vicksburg, Mississippi. One day, while bored with his duty during the siege of Vicksburg, he borrowed a rifle and joined a skirmish line to snipe at the Yankees, where he was killed by a Union sharpshooter. His promotion to Brigadier General arrived several days later. In his honor, the Confederates named Fort Garrott, near Vicksburg, after him. The fort was never taken, despite repeated tries by the Union Army, during the campaign. The exact location of his remains is unknown, having been hastily buried in a yard in downtown Vicksburg during the Siege. He has a memorial marker for him in the Soldiers Rest Confederate Cemetery, which is located in the Cedar Hill (Old Vicksburg City) Cemetery. The following is from ''Confederate military history of Alabama : Alabama during the Civil War, 1861-1865'', pg. 84, report of General Stevenson by Wheeler, Joseph, 1836-1906 ''General Stevenson in his report of the siege speaks most highly of Lieutenant-Colonel Pettus and Colonel Garrott. Mentioned by Gen. S. D. Lee: ''The officers who attracted my attention were Col. Isham W. Garrott, of 20th Alabama, the pure patriot and gallant soldier who was killed on June 17th while in the fearless discharge of his duties, respected and loved by all who knew him; a more attentive and vigilant was not in our service.'' Bio by: Kit and Morgan Benson Gravesite Details Buried here but gravesite unknown {see biography note]


--- [Garrott, Isham Warren - NCpedia] ---
1816–17 June 1863 Isham Warren Garrott, lawyer and Confederate soldier, was born in Wake County, the son of Isham Garrott, one of eleven sons of Thomas Garrott, and Mary Sims Garrott. The family lived for a time in Anson County, but then young Garrott apparently returned to Wake County from which he attended The University of North Carolina during the years 1837–40. After studying law there, he was admitted to the bar. Garrott's parents were not wealthy so he had to make his own way in the world. He moved first to Greenville, Ala., and in the following year to Marion, Perry County, where he formed a law partnership with James Phelan, who was afterward a Confederate senator from Mississippi. Garrott soon became interested in public affairs and in 1845–49 represented Perry County in the Alabama legislature. Later he practiced law with Judge William M. Brooks. In the presidential election of 1860, Garrott served as a Breckinridge elector. When Alabama joined the Confederacy in 1861, he was sent as a commissioner to his native state by Governor Andrew B. Moore to seek the cooperation of the North Carolina General Assembly in the movement for secession. Upon returning to Alabama, Garrott, with the assistance of E. W. Pettus, raised the Twentieth Alabama Regiment, which was organized at Montgomery on 16 Sept. 1861 with Garrott as its colonel. The Twentieth Alabama saw service in the Civil War first as part of General J. M. Wither's army in the defense of Mobile, Ala., where it spent the fall and winter of 1861. In February 1862, the regiment was sent to Knoxville, Tenn., to join General E. Kirby Smith's army in the Department of Eastern Tennessee. During the great Kentucky campaign in the fall of 1862, Garrott and his men served in General Edward D. Tracy's brigade of Smith's army. That December Tracy's brigade accompanied the division of General Carter L. Stevenson to Mississippi to reinforce General John C. Pemberton's army at Vicksburg against Union forces under General Ulysses S. Grant. Here Garrott and his regiment passed the winter. When Grant began his famous campaign to envelop the rear of Vicksburg at the end of April 1863, Tracy's brigade was ordered to reinforce General John S. Bowen's command at Port Gibson, Miss., which was contesting Grant's advance. After a grueling forty-four-mile forced march from Vicksburg, the brigade joined Bowen's division and took part in the Battle of Port Gibson on 1 May. In this first engagement of the Twentieth Alabama Regiment, Garrott showed great skill in directing his men under fire. Tracy's brigade, which formed the right flank of Bowen's line, came under heavy attack from overwhelming Union forces and General Tracy was killed early in the fighting. As senior colonel, Garrott assumed command of the brigade and served with distinction for the rest of the engagement. The Union forces outnumbered Bowen's command about three to one and at nightfall the general was forced to retire from the field. During the day's fighting, the Twentieth Alabama had suffered dire losses—a total of 272 men killed, wounded, and missing. Garrott later returned to lead the regiment when General Stephen D. Lee assumed command of Tracy's brigade. On 16 May 1863, Garrott and his men took part in the Battle of Champion Hill, east of Vicksburg, where the colonel again proved to be a skilled and efficient commander in battle. He then led his men in the siege of Vicksburg, which began two days later. During the siege, Garrott frequently appeared along his lines and at his outposts to speak with and encourage his men. On 17 June he made such a visit to one of his outposts. Seeing an opportunity to take a shot at the enemy, he asked to borrow the rifle of one of his men. As Garrott was taking aim, he was shot through the heart by a Union sharpshooter. Unfortunately, though he had been promoted to brigadier general on 29 May (to rank from 28 May), his commission, which had been forwarded from Richmond, failed to reach him before his untimely death cut short a promising military career. Beloved by his men, Garrott was buried at Vicksburg. He has been described as persistent and energetic, and an untiring worker. Garrott was a Whig and a Baptist. He married Margaret Matilda Fletcher, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Emiline Moore Fletcher. They had seven children: William Burrell, Mary Sims, Sims Burrell, Emma (died young), John Fletcher (m. Floria Bute), Thomas Ritchie (m. Nannie Collier and later Alice Rushing), and Julia (died in childhood).


--- [Chapter 142: 7. Isham Warren Garrott - The Encyclopedia of ...] ---
No content
