=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John Constable - Wikipedia]
JohnConstableRA (/ ˈkʌnstəbəl, ˈkɒn -/; [1] 11 June 1776 - 31 March 1837) was anEnglishlandscapepainterin the Romantic tradition. Born in Suffolk, he is known principally for revolutionising the genre oflandscapepainting [2] with his pictures of Dedham Vale, the area on the borderland of Suffolk and north Essex surrounding his home - now known as "ConstableCountry" - which ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Constable

[John Constable (11.06.1776 - 31.03.1837) - Biography ... - Arthive]
JohnConstable(JohnConstable, June 11, 1776, East Bergholt, Suffolk, England - March 31, 1837, London) was a major BritishlandscapepainteroftheRomantic era.
URL: https://arthive.com/johnconstable

[John Constable (1776-1837) - The Heath & Hampstead Society]
JohnConstable(1776-1837)JohnConstablewas born in Suffolk. He was anEnglishlandscapepainterin the romantic tradition. He transformed the genre oflandscapepainting with his pictures of Dedham Vale and the area surrounding his home - now known asConstableCountry.
URL: https://www.heathandhampstead.org.uk/hhs_plaques/john-constable/

[Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter]
A chalk and pencil self-portrait byEnglishlandscapepainterJohnConstable(1776 - 1837), circa 1800. Hulton Archive / Getty Images In 1790,JohnConstableconvinced his father to allow him to embark on a career in art. He entered the Royal Academy Schools, where he studied and made copies of paintings by the old masters.
URL: https://www.thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647

[John Constable (1776-1837) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree]
Is this your ancestor? Explore genealogy forJohnConstableborn 1776 East Bergholt, Suffolk, England died 1837 Bloomsbury, London, England, United Kingdom including ancestors + descendants + 16 photos + 2 genealogist comments + more in the free family tree community.
URL: https://www.wikitree.com/wiki/Constable-2


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John Constable - Wikipedia] ---
John Constable  (; 11 June 1776 – 31 March 1837) was an English landscape painter in the Romantic tradition. Born in Suffolk, he is known principally for revolutionising the genre of landscape painting with his pictures of Dedham Vale, the area on the borderland of Suffolk and north Essex surrounding his home – now known as "Constable Country" – which he invested with an intensity of affection. "I should paint my own places best", he wrote to his friend John Fisher in 1821, "painting is but another word for feeling".
Constable's most famous paintings include Wivenhoe Park (1816), Dedham Vale (1828) and The Hay Wain (1821). Although his paintings are now among the most popular and valuable in British art, he was never financially successful. He was elected to the Royal Academy of Arts at the age of 52. His work was embraced in France, where he sold more than in his native England and inspired the Barbizon school.




--- [John Constable (11.06.1776 - 31.03.1837) - Biography ... - Arthive] ---
Artworks All artworks Marketplace PRO atrworks Digital copies Debut works My artworks I liked Sell an artwork Artists All artists PRO artists Modern artists Old masters Order an artwork Arthive for artists My artists I liked Add an artist Exhibitions All exibitions My exhibitions My visits I liked Add an exhibition Museums and galleries All museums and galleries All museums All galleries Arthive for galleries My museums and galleries I liked Add museum/gallery Publication Art news Encyclopedia Quizzes Artsmarts Reference book Sandbox My publications I liked Add a publication Products and prices All products and prices Websites for Artists Websites for Galleries PRO account Mobile apps Collections Selections To artists To galleries To collectors To art lovers About the project Frequently asked questions Vacancies Ad Language: english русский українська deutsch español français italiano Slovenski 汉语 Ad Nothing found All search results Enter keywords Quick search helps finding an artist, picture, user or article and prompts your previous searches Artworks All artworks Marketplace PRO atrworks Digital copies Debut works My artworks I liked Sell an artwork Artists All artists PRO artists Modern artists Old masters Order an artwork Arthive for artists My artists I liked Add an artist Exhibitions All exibitions My exhibitions My visits I liked Add an exhibition Museums and galleries All museums and galleries All museums All galleries Arthive for galleries My museums and galleries I liked Add museum/gallery Publication Art news Encyclopedia Quizzes Artsmarts Reference book Sandbox My publications I liked Add a publication Products and prices All products and prices Websites for Artists Websites for Galleries PRO account Mobile apps Collections Selections To artists To galleries To collectors To art lovers About the project Frequently asked questions Vacancies Ad Language: english русский українська deutsch español français italiano Slovenski 汉语 Drag image here Or upload from your device Upload an image Arthive Automatic query check


--- [John Constable (1776-1837) - The Heath & Hampstead Society] ---
John Constable was born in Suffolk. He was an English landscape painter in the romantic tradition. He transformed the genre of landscape painting with his pictures of Dedham Vale and the area surrounding his home – now known as Constable Country. He was never financially successful, and it was not until the age of 52 that he was elected to the Royal Academy. His work was embraced in France where he was more popular, and he inspired the Barbizon school. In 1816 he married Elizabeth Bicknell, whose father, Charles Bicknell, was the solicitor to King George IV and The Admiralty. He was dissatisfied with the match, and he looked upon the Constables as social inferiors. From 1819 onwards Hampstead rivalled Suffolk and Salisbury as subjects for his art. Constable lived in Hampstead from 1819 to 1837 in various homes. In 1821 and 1822 he rented 2 Lower Terrace for 4 guineas a week furnished. In 1828 his wife Elizabeth died of tuberculosis after giving birth to their seventh child and Constable was left to raise their seven children alone. Constable died in 1837 and is buried in the churchyard in Church Row with his wife and two of his children. This plaque was unveiled in July 1986 by Sir Geoffrey Finsberg MP. VIEW ON MAIN INTERACTIVE MAP 1


--- [Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter] ---
Humanities › Visual Arts › Art & Artists › Art History › Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter Print "Stratford Mill" (1820). Hulton Archive / Getty Images Visual Arts Art & Artists Art History Architecture By Bill Lamb Bill Lamb Music Expert M.L.S, Library Science, Indiana University Bill Lamb is a music and arts writer with two decades of experience covering the world of entertainment and culture. Learn about our Editorial Process Updated on January 31, 2020 Close John Constable (June 11, 1776—March 31, 1837) was one of the most prominent British landscape painters of the 1800s. Tied strongly to the Romantic Movement, he embraced the idea of painting directly from nature and introduced scientific detail to his work. He struggled to make ends meet during his lifetime, but today he is recognized as a vital link in the evolution toward impressionism. Fast Facts: John Constable Known For: Landscape painter and pioneer of naturalism, known for his scientific approach to painting and his large-scale "six footers"Born: June 11, 1776 in East Bergholt, EnglandParents: Golding and Ann ConstableDied: March 31, 1837 in London, EnglandEducation: Royal AcademyArt Movement: RomanticismMediums: Oil painting and watercolorsSelected Works: "Dedham Vale" (1802), "The White Horse" (1819), "The Hay Wain" (1821)Spouse: Maria Elizabeth BicknellChildren: Seven: John Charles, Maria Louisa, Charles Golding, Isobel, Emma, Alfred, LionelNotable Quote: "Painting is a science and should be pursued as an inquiry into the laws of nature." Early Life and Training Born in East Bergholt, a small town on the River Stour in England, John Constable was the son of a wealthy corn trader. His father owned the ship that he used to send corn to London. The family expected John to succeed his father in running the merchant business. Early in his life, Constable took sketching trips in the land around his home, which is now known as "Constable Country." The surrounding countryside would feature in the bulk of his later art. The young painter met artist John Thomas Smith, who encouraged him to stay in the family business and avoid working professionally as an artist. Constable didn't follow the advice. A chalk and pencil self-portrait by English landscape painter John Constable (1776 - 1837), circa 1800. Hulton Archive / Getty Images In 1790, John Constable convinced his father to allow him to embark on a career in art. He entered the Royal Academy Schools, where he studied and made copies of paintings by the old masters. He particularly admired the work of Thomas Gainsborough and Peter Paul Rubens. Constable rejected the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College in 1802. Noted artist Benjamin West predicted the rejection would spell the end of Constable's painting career. The younger artist was steadfast and insisted that he wanted to be a professional painter, not an instructor. In the first years of the 1800s, Constable painted views of Dedham Vale near his home. The works are not as mature as his later work, but the peaceful atmosphere he became known for is abundantly present. In 1803, Constable began exhibiting his paintings at the Royal Academy. He did not make enough from his landscapes to live on, so he accepted portrait commissions to make ends meet. While the artist reportedly found portraiture dull, he executed many well-received portraits throughout his career. "Dedham Church and Vale" (1800). WikiArt / Public Domain Rising Reputation Following his marriage to Maria Bicknell in 1816, John Constable began experimenting with bright, more vibrant colors and livelier brushstrokes. The new techniques enhanced the emotional impact of his work. Unfortunately, he only managed to scrape by on income from sales of paintings. In 1819, Constable finally experienced a breakthrough. He released "The White Horse," known as the first of his "six-footers," large-scale paintings measuring six-feet or more in length. The enthusiastic reception helped Constable in his election as an Associate of the Royal Academy. The 1821 exhibition of "The Hay Wain" further enhanced the artist's reputation. "The White Horse" (1819). Geoffrey Clements / Getty Images When "The Hay Wain" appeared at the Paris Salon of 1824, the French king awarded it a gold medal. The award began a period in which Constable was more successful in France than at home in England. However, he refused to cross the English Channel to promote his work in person, preferring to remain at home. In 1828, after giving birth to the couple's seventh child, Constable's wife, Maria, contracted tuberculosis and died at age 41. Deeply saddened by the loss, Constable dressed in black. He invested a legacy from the death of Maria's father in his art. Unfortunately, the results were a financial failure, and the artist continued to scrape by. The following year, the Royal Academy elected John Constable a full member. He began giving public lectures on landscape painting. He contended that his work contained elements of both science and poetry. Constable Landscapes At the time that John Constable created his most celebrated landscape paintings, the prevailing opinion in the art world was that artists should use their imagination in producing pictures. Painting directly from nature was considered a lesser pursuit. Constable created many large, complete preliminary sketches for his paintings to work out the composition details. Art historians today value the sketches for what they say about the artist. Many of them are more emotional and aggressive than the finished paintings. They point in the direction of the innovations of impressionist and post-impressionist painters more than 50 years later. The sky and textures of the clouds interested Constable when painting his landscapes. He insisted on being more scientific in his renderings of atmospheric details. Late in his career, he began painting rainbows. Occasionally, he included rainbows that would have been a physical impossibility based on the other sky conditions shown. The pioneering work of Luke Howard on classifying clouds had a significant impact on Constable's work. "The Hay Wain" (1821). Hulton Fine Art / Getty Images Later Career In the 1830s, John Constable switched from oil painting to watercolors. His final "six-footer" was the 1831 rendering of "Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows." The stormy weather and the accompanying rainbow in the picture were understood to represent the artist's turbulent emotional state. However, the rainbow is a symbol of hope for a brighter future. In 1835, Constable painted "Stonehenge," one of his best-loved works. It is a watercolor that shows the monumental arrangement of ancient stones against the backdrop of a sky that features a double rainbow. The same year, he delivered his final lecture to the Royal Academy. He spoke with abundant praise about the old master Raphael and stated that the Royal Academy was "the cradle of British art." Constable continued to work in his studio until his final days. He died of heart failure in his studio on March 31, 1837. "Stoke Poges Church" (1833). Hulton Archive / Getty Images Legacy Along with William Turner, John Constable is recognized as one of the most notable landscape artists of the 19th century. In his lifetime, the art world didn't recognize him as one of the top talents, but his reputation remains solid today. Constable is considered a pioneer of naturalism in painting in England. He was one of the first major artists to work directly from nature and apply his knowledge of light and naturalistic detail to Romantic subject matter. The emotional impact of many of his landscapes remains dramatic and idealized. Still, his studies resulted in rendering plants in such detail that a viewer may ascertain the specific species he painted. Constable was a significant influence on the French leader of the Romantic Movement in painting, Eugene Delacroix. In journal entries written by Delacroix, he stated that he admired Constable's use of "broken color and flickering light." The Barbizon School, French painters who focused on realism in landscape painting, felt the impact of Constable's innovations, too. Jean-Francois Millet and Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot took the direct observation of nature even further in an evolution that led to impressionism. "Rainstorm Over the Sea" (1826). Hulton Fine Art / Getty Images Sources Evans, Mark. Constable's Skies. Thames & Hudson, 2018.Evans, Mark. John Constable: The Making of a Master. Victoria & Albert Museum, 2014. Cite this Article Format mla apa chicago Your Citation Lamb, Bill. "Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter." ThoughtCo, Jun. 25, 2024, thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647. Lamb, Bill. (2024, June 25). Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter. Retrieved from https://www.thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647 Lamb, Bill. "Biography of John Constable, British Landscape Painter." ThoughtCo. https://www.thoughtco.com/biography-of-john-constable-british-landscape-painter-4783647 (accessed March 4, 2026). copy citation


--- [John Constable (1776-1837) | WikiTree FREE Family Tree] ---
| John Constable is managed by the England Project. Join: England Project Discuss: england | Biography John Constable was born on 11th June, 1776 in East Bergholt, Suffolk, England. [1] He was the second son, and fourth of six children born to Golding Constable and his wife Ann Watts. His father, Golding Constable was a wealthy miller and merchant. [2] His mother Ann managed the Constable Household, and a large workforce working in the poultry yard, domestic brewery and dairy. [3] John had two older sisters, Ann (1768) and Martha (1769) and an older brother Golding (1774), and one younger sister Mary (1781) and one younger brother Abram (1783). [4] Golding had been born intellectually impaired, so the expectation of a son taking over the family business had fallen onto John. To this end John was sent to boarding school in Lavenham, Suffolk, England, for his early education. When he became of the age to enter grammar school, he was enrolled on a day basis in Dedham Grammar School. Although John was studious as a scholar, like Gainsborough before him, his love was painting the landscapes around his home. John's mother was his greatest advocate, encouraging her son to expand his knowledge of painting and to hone his skills with the brush. However she feared that painting landscapes would not provide him with enough money to live, so she encouraged him to paint portraits. John did not really have the right temperament to paint portraits, his interaction with those that sat for him was not a skill he had learned, but he went on to paint over 100 portraits, some of which were classified as "fine". When he left school, John, as expected, worked with his father in the family business. His father owned Flatford Mill having inherited it from an uncle, Dedham Mill which he once co owned but now fully owned, and a windmill at East Bergholt, along with 93 acres of land there, which was farmed. In 1795, John, now aged 19, was introduced, by his mother, to Sir George Beaumont, who was an amateur artist and art collector. Sir George's mother lived in Dedham, and it was on this day when he visited her, that John was introduced to him and showed him some of his pen and ink sketches. Sir George showed John a small Italianate picture, with bright sky painted in 1646 by Claude Lorraine. This small painting was called “Hagar and the Angel”, and was to have a profound effect on John's future landscapes. Later, John was to take a trip to Middlesex, to visit relatives, and it was on this visit that he was introduced to John Thomas Smith. It was John Smith that urged John to stay in his father's business whilst advising him on painting. John returned to Dedham, and to his father's business, but as the years passed his desire to paint weighed heavily on John, and in 1799 he persuaded his father to allow him to pursue his dream and study art. His father, who had reluctantly agreed, gave him a small allowance. John entered the Royal Academy Schools, and began to study in the life classes and anatomical dissections, and also study and copy the Old Masters. He became inspired by a small number of artists, Claude Lorraine who painted "Hagar and the Angel" and another Suffolk Artist, Thomas Gainsborough were just two of them. He began to find his own style of painting and in 1802 was offered the position of drawing master at Great Marlow Military College. He turned down the offer much to the dismay of Benjamin West who was then master of the Royal Academy. Upon hearing that his decision may well be the end of his career, John wrote to John Dunthorne, detailing his intentions of becoming a landscape artist. He wrote: "For the last two years I have been running after pictures, and seeking the truth at second hand. I have not endeavoured to represent nature with the same elevation of mind with which I set out, but have rather tried to make my performances look like the work of other men... There is room enough for a natural painter. The great vice of the present day is bravura, an attempt to do something beyond the truth." By 1803 John Constable was exhibiting paintings at the Royal Academy. Whilst in his early twenties, John met a young girl, Maria Bicknell, when she was visiting her Grandfather, Dr. Durrand Rhudde, who resided in East Bergholt. A friendship was formed between John and Maria, and this friendship was to remain until 1809, when it began to mature into a deep love for each other. When Maria announced her intent to marry John, she came up against a very strong disapproval from her Grandfather. He had recently had an argument with John's father and his feelings were that John and his family were of a lower social status than he was, and therefore the marriage was out of the question. Her Grandfather was so against this union, that he threatened to disinherit the whole family. Maria's father forbade her to see John in fear of Reverend Rhudde's edict being carried out, so John was forced to meet Maria in secret, and this continued for seven years. During this time John, who was a struggling artist, and living on a very modest sum granted by his father, became stressed and depressed, which had an adverse effect on his paintings. This was when he began to paint portraits to make ends meet. In 1816, John's father passed away, leaving him a sizeable amount of money in his inheritance. Now John could afford to support a wife and family, and he and Maria decided they had endured enough and that they would indeed marry regardless of the possibility of Maria being disinherited. John and Maria were married in the Church of St Martin in the Fields in London in 1816. The wedding was quiet with no members of either family attending. Maria was duly disinherited by her Grandfather, but upon his death found she had been bequeathed £4,000 like her siblings.[5] During July 1816, about three months before their wedding, John painted a portrait of Maria. In August he wrote a letter to her saying: "I would not be without your portrait for the world, the sight of it soon calms my spirit under all trouble". John and Maria spent their honeymoon on the South Coast, which inspired John. Vibrant colour, dynamic brushwork, and a new emotion began to show in his painting. John and Maria moved to Keppel Street, Bloomsbury, London in 1817, but by 1819, Maria's health had deteriorated, and John rented a house for his family in Hampstead. During their three years in Hampstead, John painted about one hundred studies of cloud formations, the technique of which was to be used in future landscapes. [6] In 1819, John sold his first important canvas called "The White Horse", which was to lead to a series of "6 footers", which is how John referred to his large scale paintings. In 1820-1821 "The Hay Wain" was painted. In 1821, John was elected an Associate of the Royal Academy, and he exhibited The Hay Wain there. A French painter, Theodore Gericault, saw John's work and sang his praises in the Paris Salon. This lead to four of John's paintings being purchased by John Arrowsmith, an art dealer, and exhibited in the Salon. In 1824, John was awarded a gold medal for "The Hay Wain" by Charles X. In 1822, John moved his family back to Bloomsbury, but by 1824, Maria's health was again deteriorating, so they were making frequent trips with longer stays to Brighton, which John called "Piccadilly by the seaside". In 1825, John quarrelled with John Arrowsmith, which resulted in the loss of his French Outlet. John and Maria were married for 12 years, and for most of those Maria was pregnant. She gave birth to seven children and had one miscarriage. She was to pass away during 1828 from tuberculosis a few months after giving birth to their seventh child, leaving John with seven small children to care for. Grief stricken, John wrote to his brother Golding. In his letter he wrote: "hourly do I feel the loss of my departed Angel. God only knows how my children will be brought up... the face of the World is totally changed to me". Thereafter he dressed in black, and was to care for his children alone until his death. In 1831, John was appointed "Visitor" of the Royal Academy and in 1833 began to lecture on landscape painting. His lectures became very popular with members of the public and students alike, and many of his audiences were prestige. His final lecture was in 1836. John Constable passed away on the night of 31st March, 1837, supposedly of indigestion, in Bloomsbury, London. He was buried in the family tomb, beside Maria, in the churchyard of St John's, Hampstead. Reflections "He was undoubtedly one of those painters of the Romantic tradition who perceived the natural world with a heightened intensity through wakefulness as a natural state"[7] Thomas Gainsborough was an inspiration to John Constable. Their lives followed a very similar path. - Both were born in Suffolk, and found the Suffolk countryside their greatest inspiration. - Both had working class Fathers, who made their wealth through hard work and industry, and who had to be persuaded to allow their sons to pursue art. - Both had mothers who recognised their talent at a young age, and encouraged and nurtured their young sons to fulfill their dreams. - Both were landscape painters who turned to portraits to make ends meet. John Constable sold only twenty paintings in England during his lifetime but sold over twenty in France in just a few years. Research Notes The life and times of John Constable has been summarised here with pertinent facts, depicting historical events, from various sources listed below. The works of art depicted here do not by any means value one above the other or are intended as his complete works. Dates other than birth, marriage and death dates, included here may be subject to a difference of opinion, but wherever possible, the concensus of opinion has been used. Sources - ↑ “BBC - History - John Constable,” n.d. John Constable - ↑ “Golding Constable.” National Trust, n.d. Golding Constable - ↑ "Ann (Watts) Constable." National Trust, n.d. Ann (Watts) Constable - ↑ "John Constables' Family." National Trust n.d. John Constables' Family - ↑ London Metropolitan Archives; London, England; Reference Number: DL/T/093/016. Bishop's Transcript: Marriage 2 Oct 1816, St Martin in the Fields, Westminster, England. John Constable and Maria Elizabeth Bicknell. Retrieved from Ancestry.com. London, England, Church of England Marriages and Banns, 1754-1932 [database on-line]. Provo, UT, USA: Ancestry.com Operations, Inc., 2010. - ↑ “John Constable 1776-1837 | Tate.” John Constable - ↑ Taylor, Steve. The Leap : The Psychology of Spiritual Awakening, 2017, Chapter 3. See Also: - “John Constable - The Complete Works - Biography” john-constable.org. Accessed May 6, 2018. John Constable - “John Constable.” Wikipedia, April 27, 2018. John Constable - “John Constable (1776 - 1837) | National Gallery, London.” Accessed May 6, 2018. John Constable - Constable, John, Ronald B. Beckett, and C R. Leslie. John Constable's Correspondence. 6 vols.,Suffolk Records Society, 1962-68. Print. - Leslie, Charles Robert. Memoirs of the Life of John Constable, Esq., R.A.: Composed Chiefly of His Letters. Longman, Brown, Green and Longmans, 1845 Google Books - Ivy, Judy Crosby. "Constable, John (1776–1837), landscape painter and draughtsman." Oxford Dictionary of National Biography. 2004-09-23. Oxford University Press. Acknowledgements The Family was added by Anthony Turtle to try and find a link to his wife's family. Please don't contact Anthony, as this was just added for research purposes and to help any connected family members. This profile was also part of a gedcom uploaded by Hugh Dunkerley
