=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nigeen Lake - Wikipedia]
It is sometimes considered a part of Dal Lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. [2] It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan. [3]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nigeen_Lake

[Nigeen Lake | District Srinagar, Government of Jammu and Kashmir | India]
Nigeen Lake (alteratively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a mildly eutrophic. lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is sometimes considered a part of the Dal lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan.
URL: https://srinagar.nic.in/tourist-place/nigeen-lake/

[Nigeen Lake - A stunning lake connected to famous Dal lake and ...]
A few minutes ago, they had a good catch and we saw them putting the fish in a bag. Nigeen Lake is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan. While we are talking about fishing around Nigeen lake, you can see good number of Kingfisher birds sitting around and catching fish form the lake.
URL: https://www.travellingcamera.com/2020/08/nigeen-lake-srinagar-kashmir-valley-in-india.html

[[Solved] Nigeen Lake is connected to Khushal Sar and Gil Sar through]
The correct answer is Nallah Amir Khan. Key Points Nigeen (or Nageen) Lake is a mildly eutrophic waterbody in Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir, often considered an extension of Dal Lake, with which it is linked by a narrow strait. It also connects to Khushal Sar and Gil Sar through the Nallah Amir Khan channel. Surrounded by willow and poplar trees, the lake earned the name "Nageena", meaning ...
URL: https://testbook.com/question-answer/nigeen-lake-is-connected-to-khushal-sar-and-gil-sa--6937ed0fa2d9d86d70abfcd9

[Nigeen Lake || Right Wings Tour and Travels]
It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan. 8 kms a jewel in the ring, the smallest but mostly lovely ...
URL: https://rightwingstour.com/Nigeen.aspx


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nigeen Lake - Wikipedia] ---
Nigeen Lake (alternatively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is mildly eutrophic, a term that refers to a body of water rich in nutrients, which cause excessive growth of aquatic plants like algae, resulting in bacteria that consume nearly all the oxygen. It is sometimes considered a part of Dal Lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan.




--- [Nigeen Lake | District Srinagar, Government of Jammu and Kashmir | India] ---
Nigeen Lake DirectionNigeen Lake (alteratively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a mildly eutrophic. lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is sometimes considered a part of the Dal lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan. The Nigeen lake is surrounded by a large number of willow and poplar trees. Hence, it has come to be referred as a “nageena”, which means “the jewel in the ring”. The word “nigeen” is a local variant of the same word. The lake is located adjacent to the Hari Parbat hillock, to the west of the Dal lake. To its north east lies the locality of Hazratbal, which is known for the famous shrine. The lake is a major tourist attraction in Srinagar, known for its relatively pristine waters as compared to the Dal lake. Houseboats and Shikaras are a usual sight. Its also ideal for swimming, being deeper and less crowded than the Dal lake. Photo Gallery How to Reach: By Air 22 Kms from Sheikh ul Alam International Airport Srinagar By Train 19.5 Kms from Srinagar Railway Station By Road 8 Kms from Lalchowk Srinagar


--- [Nigeen Lake - A stunning lake connected to famous Dal lake and ...] ---
Nigeen Lake - A stunning lake connected to famous Dal lake and surrounded by Baghwanpura, Lal Bazar, Hari Parbat & Hazratbal locality of Srinagar city in Kashmir valley of India All of us have heard of Dal Lake in Srinagar, but I was not aware of Nigeen Lake before I visited Kashmir Valley. I stayed at Centaur Hotel which is close to Nigeen lake and that's how I got a chance to explore this lake well in Srinagar. During my 3 days stay at Srinagar, I had various Shikara rides in Nigeen lake and explored different parts of the lake. This PHOTO JOURNEY shares some of the photographs clicked around Nigeen Lake and information about houseboats, markets, vegetation, Shikara rides, shopping and lot more. In fact, I found Nigeen lake better than Dal lake. Less crowded, better maintained, cleaner and peaceful. The lake looks awesome during sunset time whenever most of the Shikaras move towards the shoreline and lake market closes down by handing over all the tourists & travellers to houseboats. Glittering lights of houseboats and their reflections in Nigeen lake look amazing. Evening is best time for Shikara ride in Nigeen lake. There are multiple reasons for that. I prefer Nigeen lake over Dal lake because of less commercialisation and hence peace :). Look at these stunning colors of sunset reflecting on lak surface. Every evening, we used to wait for sunset and walk around this beautiful lake in Srinagar. The nigeen lake has a very serene and fully equipped nigeen club which has restaurant fitness centre and private yachts. The place is surrounded by many top restaurants like chickblast, othersidecafe, snooker cafe, and a beautiful park. Lot of families can be seen sitting around the lake during evening time. Some of them also enjoy fishing, although not sure if that's legal or not. Above photograph shows a man indulged in fishing around Nigeen Lake, along with his son. A few minutes ago, they had a good catch and we saw them putting the fish in a bag. Nigeen Lake is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan. While we are talking about fishing around Nigeen lake, you can see good number of Kingfisher birds sitting around and catching fish form the lake. Above photograph shows silhouette of kingfisher sitting on a rod inside the lake and keeping a watch on bunch of fish. Shikaras can be seen at various places around the shoreline. After every 300 meters you can find Shikaras waiting for tourists. There are different kinds of Shikaras and tariff varies accordingly. One thing I love the most about these shikaras is colours used to decorate them. Red is very prominent colours in most of the shikaras around Nigeen lake or Dal lake. Most of the shikara owners chose red roof of the shikara along with matching seating & carpets etc. Another photograph of a man fishing around Nigeen lake in Srinagar. The Shikara ride is usually 45 mins to 1 hr 15 mins. These Shikaras take you to lake market, which is in the middle of lake. All the shops are floating over the lake. On your way, you see some of the brilliant and popular houseboats in Srinagar. If not staying in these houseboats, you can plan to have lunch at one of those. Only few of them have restaurants. It can be a great experience to enjoy lunch on the lake, while listening to local folk songs. We were fortunate to board the Shikara, who's owner was a singer. He sang few Kashmiri songs for us. Unfortunately we forgot to make videos, otherwise that could have been a great addition to this blog-post. After visiting lake market in the middle of Nigeen lake of Srinagar, the Shikara takes you little further and exposes you to clusters of houses in the lake. Like we own cars to commute in cities, these folks own a boat to go to other side of the lake. In above photograph you see a boat, which is being used by a local to go back home after day job. Some of my friends had told that Nigeen lake is little dirty, but when we were there it was much cleaner and cleaning project was under progress. The colourful lotuses were looking brilliant with millions of lotus-leaves all around. We also saw white lotuses in Nigeen lake of Srinagar. The Nigeen lake is surrounded by a large number of willow and poplar trees. Hence, it has come to be referred as a nageena, which means 'the jewel in the ring'. The word 'nigeen' is a local variant of the same word and you appreciate it more when you understand why it's called Nigeen lake. If you are having a Shikara ride during day, you can relax and have a nap :) and we did that when coming back from Lake market. There are lot of Shikaras in Nigeen lake, which would come to you and sell snacks, bhutta & handicraft. You can enjoy fruit chats, bhutta, tea, local snacks when enjoying shikara ride. At the same time, if you don't have much time, you can do little shopping in lake only. One of my friends bought Kashmiri Jewelry for his friends & family. I would rate Nigeen lake experience much better in Srinagar and in my next trip, I intend to stay in one of the Houseboats in Nigeen Lake. There are some houses around the lake and hence you can see lot of local folks riding their boats to commute to other side of the lake. In morning, mothers can be seen riding their boats to drop kids on other side for joining school. Nigeen Lake is a mildly eutrophic lake which is sometimes considered a part of the Dal lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. The Nigeen lake is a major tourist attraction in Srinagar, known for its relatively pristine waters as compared to the Dal lake. Houseboats and shikaras are a usual sight around the lake. Nigeen lake is also ideal for swimming, being deeper and less crowded than the Dal lake, although I didn't see anyone swimming around the main part of the lake. If you liked this post and found it helpful, I would request you to follow these things when traveling - - Manage your waste well and don’t litter - Use dustbins. Tell us if you went to a place and found it hard to locate a dustbin. - Avoid bottle waters in hills. Usually you get clean water in hills and water bottles create lot of mess in our ecosystem. - Say big no to plastic and avoid those unhealthy snacks packed in plastic bags. Rather buy fruits. - Don't play loud blaring music in forests of jungle camps. You are a guest in that ecosystem and disturbing the locals (humans and animals) is not polite


--- [[Solved] Nigeen Lake is connected to Khushal Sar and Gil Sar through] ---
Question Download Solution PDFNigeen Lake is connected to Khushal Sar and Gil Sar through which channel? Answer (Detailed Solution Below) Option 2 : Nallah Amir Khan Detailed Solution Download Solution PDFThe correct answer is Nallah Amir Khan. Key Points - Nigeen (or Nageen) Lake is a mildly eutrophic waterbody in Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir, often considered an extension of Dal Lake, with which it is linked by a narrow strait. - It also connects to Khushal Sar and Gil Sar through the Nallah Amir Khan channel. - Surrounded by willow and poplar trees, the lake earned the name “Nageena”, meaning “jewel,” with nigeen being its local variant. - Located beside Hari Parbat and close to the Hazratbal area, Nigeen Lake is known for its clearer, deeper waters compared to Dal Lake. - It remains a popular tourist spot, offering houseboat stays, shikara rides, and safe swimming conditions.


--- [Nigeen Lake || Right Wings Tour and Travels] ---
Nigeen Lake (alteratively spelled as Nageen Lake) is a mildly eutrophic lake located in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It is sometimes considered a part of the Dal lake and is connected to it via a narrow strait. It is also connected to the Khushal Sar and Gil Sar lakes via a channel known as Nallah Amir Khan. 8 kms a jewel in the ring, the smallest but mostly lovely part of Dal lake, seperated by a causeway and only a short distance from Hazratbal shrine, its deep blue waters encircled by a ring of green trees has been credited for its name. The Nageen club has water sking and swimming facilities. the waters are edged by trees of willow and poplar whose reflection is mirrored in the lake. 'Bathing boats' here, as well as on the Dal, hire out water-skis and motor launches. The waters of the lakes are pleasantly cool from mid-May to mid-September. Shikaras can be hired from any of the steps called 'ghats' (jetties) leading to the lake. Some rides are fixed and their rates are posted at each ghat as well as opposite the Tourist Reception Centre. Shikaras are a refreshingly novel way of seeing Srinagar by day and at twilight, the gentle soothing motion of the boat, as it glides along the water, is unbelievably romantic. The Nigeen lake is surrounded by a large number of willow and poplar trees. Hence, it has come to be referred as a "nageena", which means "the jewel in the ring". The word "nigeen" is a local variant of the same word. The lake is located adjacent to the Hari Parbat hillock, to the west of the Dal lake. To its north and west, lie the localities of Baghwanpora and Lal Bazar while to its north east lies the locality of Hazratbal, which is known for the famous shrine.The lake is a major tourist attraction in Srinagar, known for its relatively pristine waters as compared to the Dal lake. Houseboats and shikaras are a usual sight. Its also ideal for swimming, being deeper and less crowded than the Dal lake.
