=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Serenity (Clara) - Wikipedia]
Serenity is a public artwork in Meridian Hill Park, an urban park in Washington, D.C. It was sculpted by Spanish-Catalan artist Josep Clarà, who created an identical version on display in Barcelona. The sculpture was commissioned by Charles Deering, an American businessman and art collector, who was friends with Clarà. The sculpture was completed in 1921 and Deering dedicated it to his ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serenity_(Clara)

[Serenity (Clara) - Wikiwand]
Serenity is a public artwork in Meridian Hill Park, an urban park in Washington, D.C. It was sculpted by Spanish-Catalan artist Josep Clarà, who created an identical version on display in Barcelona. The sculpture was commissioned by Charles Deering, an American businessman and art collector, who was friends with Clarà. The sculpture was completed in 1921 and Deering dedicated it to his ...
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Serenity_(Clara)

[Serenity Statue - DC Memorialist]
Apr 28, 2011 · Placement: 1925 Sculptor: Jose Clara Cost: Gift to the United States The Serenity memorial is dedicated to Navy Lieutenant Commander William Henry Schuetze. It was given to the United States by Charles Deering. Deering and Schuetze were classmates at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, and graduated in 1873.
URL: https://dcmemorialist.com/serenity-statue/

[Serenity - Washington, D.C. - Specific Veteran Memorials on Waymarking.com]
Mar 2, 2021 · Waymarking.com is a way to mark unique locations on the planet and give them a voice. While GPS technology allows us to pinpoint any location on the planet, mark the location, and share it with others, Waymarking is the toolset for categorizing and adding unique information for that location.
URL: https://www.waymarking.com/waymarks/wm13WMP_Serenity_Washington_DC

[Serenity (Clara) Facts for Kids]
Serenity is a beautiful public sculpture located in Meridian Hill Park in Washington, D.C., United States. It was created by a talented artist named Josep Clarà i Ayats from Catalonia, Spain. He lived from 1878 to 1958. This artwork was first studied by the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in 1993.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Serenity_(Clara)


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Serenity (Clara) - Wikipedia] ---
Serenity is a public artwork in Meridian Hill Park, an urban park in Washington, D.C. It was sculpted by Spanish-Catalan artist Josep Clarà, who created an identical version on display in Barcelona. The sculpture was commissioned by Charles Deering, an American businessman and art collector, who was friends with Clarà. The sculpture was completed in 1921 and Deering dedicated it to his lifelong friend, Lieutenant Commander William H. Schuetze, who died in 1902. Deering gifted it to the United States and it was installed in 1925. The Carrara marble sculpture rests on a granite base and depicts a woman sitting on a rocky ledge. Soon after it was installed, there were protests about its artistic value and it was vandalized. For almost a century, Serenity has been repeatedly damaged, with its nose, hand, and other pieces missing. It has been called the "most vandalized memorial" in Washington, D.C.


--- [Serenity (Clara) - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [Serenity Statue - DC Memorialist] ---
Location: Meridian Hill Park, NW, upper park, on the 16th Street side Placement: 1925 Sculptor: Jose Clara Cost: Gift to the United States The Serenity memorial is dedicated to Navy Lieutenant Commander William Henry Schuetze. It was given to the United States by Charles Deering. Deering and Schuetze were classmates at the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, and graduated in 1873. According to the Deering Estate: “Charles Deering, a Civil War child, was enthralled by stories of naval heroics. He entered the U. S. Naval Academy as a cadet midshipman. In 1873, he graduated second in his class. Charles’ roommate and best friend, William Henry Schuetze, graduated in the top position.” Schuetze served in the United States Navy until his death in March of 1902. The Serenity Statue had been completed by the time that Charles Deering “offered” the statue to the people of the United States for a memorial to his Navy Academy classmate and friend William Henry Scheutz. Deering had purchased the statue in Paris in 1900. When Schuetze died in 1902, Deering offered as a gift to the United States in memory of Schuetze. The Commission of Fine Arts welcomed the statue calling it “an ideal statue designed by Jose Clara, a leading Spanish sculptor of to-day [sic], this Commission welcomed the idea. Congress having so authorized, a site was selected in Meridian Hill Park, where the statue of Serenity takes its place among the other distinguished works in a garden-park.” The memorial was accepted in 1924. The statue was placed in the park in July 1925. There is an inscription in the front on the base of the statue reading: SERENITY IN REMEMBRANCE OF WILLIAM HENRY SCHEUTZE LIEUTENANT COMMANDER UNITED STATES NAVY MDCCCLIII-MCMII Note: William Henry Schuetze’ name is misspelled on the monument. Serenity is located in the northwest side of the park facing Sixteenth Street. The statue is sculpted by Jose Clara from a solid block of Carrara marble. The sculpture is 5’ 6” tall and shows a woman wearing long, flowing classical robes which are tied at her waist, her arms casually rest on rocks behind her. Her left foot rests on a broken sword. The Most Abused Memorial in DC Often referred to as the most abused memorial in the city, The Washington Post reported in 1926 the Serenity statue was painted with red and black paint. In 1934 her face was painted with lipstick and rouge. Sometime in the 1950s Serenity’s nose was broken off. And in 1960 it was reported that two fingers were missing from her left hand and one from her right hand. And in 1990 the statue was spray painted with the word Uhuru. In another story of disrespect for the memorial, in 1933, with only the upper portion of the park completed and officially opened, the Columbia Heights citizens association called for the removal of Serenity on artistic grounds calling the statue offensive. Col. U.S. Grant, 3d, director of Public Buildings and Public Parks at the time was resigned to having the statue stay in the park explaining that an act of Congress put it there. He gave his opinion about the statue stating, “Personally I think it is an entirely unattractive statue, but I had nothing to do with its acceptance and I realize only too well that tastes and opinions on subjects of aesthetics change from time to time.”


--- [Serenity - Washington, D.C. - Specific Veteran Memorials on Waymarking.com] ---
No content


--- [Serenity (Clara) Facts for Kids] ---
Serenity (Clara) facts for kids Quick facts for kids Serenity | | |---|---| | Artist | Josep Clarà i Ayats | | Year | 1916–1925 | | Type | Marble | | Dimensions | 200 cm × 160 cm (79 in × 64 in) | | Location | Washington, D.C., United States | | 38°55′19″N 77°2′10″W / 38.92194°N 77.03611°W | | | Owner | National Park Service | Serenity is a beautiful public sculpture located in Meridian Hill Park in Washington, D.C., United States. It was created by a talented artist named Josep Clarà i Ayats from Catalonia, Spain. He lived from 1878 to 1958. This artwork was first studied by the Smithsonian's Save Outdoor Sculpture! program in 1993. Contents What the Serenity Sculpture Looks Like This large sculpture shows a woman who represents a big idea or feeling. She wears long, flowing robes like people wore in ancient times. These robes are tied around her waist. The woman has long hair and looks straight ahead with a serious expression. She sits on a rocky ledge, with her arms resting easily on the rocks behind her. Her left foot is placed on a broken sword. Artist's Signature and Inscription The artist, Jose Clara, signed his name on the left side of the sculpture. The front of the base has a special message carved into it. It says: - SERENITY - IN REMEMBRANCE OF WILLIAM HENRY SCHEVTZE - LIEVTENANT COMMANDER VNITED STATES NAVY - MDCCCLIII–MCMII It's interesting to note that the name "Schuetze" is spelled incorrectly on the monument. It should be "Schuetze," not "Schevtze." Art Style of Serenity The Serenity statue is a great example of the "avant-garde classical style." This art style became popular in Europe and the United States around 1910. It was inspired by the work of a French sculptor named Aristide Maillol. This style uses classic features and simple, strong shapes. It was very important in Catalonia, where Clarà was born. There, it was part of a movement called Noucentisme, which lasted from 1910 to 1936. The Story Behind Serenity Serenity was bought by a man named Charles Deering in Sitges, a town near Barcelona, Spain. Deering had a special art collection that included many works by artists from Catalonia. In 1916, Deering asked sculptor Josep Clarà i Ayats to create a version of Serenity. He wanted it for the main patio of his home in Sitges, called Palau de Maricel. Why Serenity Came to Washington, D.C. Later, changes to Deering's building meant the statue couldn't go there. So, he decided to place it at Meridian Hill Park. It was a way to honor his friend and classmate from the U.S. Naval Academy, William Henry Scheutze. The sculpture was officially dedicated on March 12, 1924. William Henry Schuetze was a naval officer. He graduated from the academy in 1873. He served as a navigator on the U.S.S. Iowa during the Spanish–American War. He was also active in the U.S. Naval White Squadron in Chicago. Earlier in his career, he was a lieutenant on missions after the difficult Jeannette expedition in the Arctic Ocean. This was even mentioned by President Chester A. Arthur in a speech. Other Versions of Serenity There is another sculpture similar to Serenity in the Miramar Gardens in Montjuïc, Barcelona. The Museu de la Garrotxa d'Olot also has other versions of this artwork. Condition and Challenges for Serenity When the sculpture was put in Meridian Hill Park in 1925, some people did not like it. They even created a petition against its placement. Some people thought the woman's "thighs were too big." Sadly, some community members used hammers to damage the sculpture. They created small dents on the woman's face, which you can still see today. Damage Over Time In 1960, it was reported that the sculpture was missing its nose. When experts checked the sculpture in 1993, they said it needed repairs. By 2009, news reports said that the sculpture was also missing her left hand and a big toe. As of 2018, one of the sculpture's hands is still missing. Gallery - Serenity (Serenitat /Serenidad) by Josep Clarà i Ayats, in the Miramar Gardens of Montjuïc, Barcelona. Made in 1929 for the Barcelona International Exhibition. - Ramon Casas, Portrait of Josep Clarà, 1904–1905. This painting is at the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, Barcelona.
