=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Murder of Moriah Wilson - Wikipedia]
Anna Moriah Wilson was born on May 18, 1996, in Littleton, New Hampshire, the daughter of Eric and Karen (née Cronin) Wilson and the sister of Matthew Wilson. She grew up in Kirby, Vermont. Wilson graduated from Burke Mountain Academy in 2014, and from Dartmouth College in 2019 with a Bachelor of Engineering (BE). Raised in a family of athletes, Wilson developed a passion for cycling as a ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murder_of_Moriah_Wilson

[Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson Obituary May 11, 2022]
May 11, 2022 — ... College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. ... After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to ...
URL: https://www.caledonialifeservices.com/obituaries/anna-wilson

[Anna Moriah Wilson Obituary | Deaths | caledonianrecord.com]
May 19, 2022 · She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019.
URL: https://www.caledonianrecord.com/community/deaths/anna-moriah-wilson-obituary/article_6ad624b6-0322-5c33-a27f-6b295f325753.html

[Anna Moriah Wilson Murder: How Did She Die? Who Killed Her?]
Jan 5, 2024 · Image Credit: Find a Grave For college, Mo attended Dartmouth College where she earned her Bachelor’s degree in Engineering in 2019. There, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team, which was one of her childhood dreams. Apart from skiing, she was interested in biking from a very young age and started taking it seriously when she realized her ...
URL: https://thecinemaholic.com/anna-moriah-wilson/

[Inside the fatal Texas love triangle of yoga teacher and two ...]
May 28, 2022 — Police are searching for Austin, Texas, yoga teacher Kaitlin Armstrong — who fled the state after her the murder of competitive cyclist, ...
URL: https://nypost.com/2022/05/28/inside-the-fatal-love-triangle-of-yoga-teacher-two-cyclists/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Murder of Moriah Wilson - Wikipedia] ---
On the night of May 11, 2022, professional cyclist Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson was fatally shot by Kaitlin Marie Armstrong at a friend's home in Austin, Texas. Armstrong, a yoga instructor and licensed Realtor, committed the crime out of jealousy triggered by Wilson's romantic encounter with her on-and-off boyfriend, pro cyclist Colin Strickland. Prior to her conviction, Armstrong had made flight attempts both as a wanted person and as a detainee: she spent 43 days at large until her capture in Costa Rica, where authorities said she had used different names and changed her appearance to set up a new life.  Over a year later, she attempted to flee from custody on the eve of her trial.




--- [Anna Moriah "Mo" Wilson Obituary May 11, 2022] ---
Invite friends and family to read the obituary and add memories. We'll notify you when service details or new memories are added. You're now following this obituary We'll email you when there are updates. Please select what you would like included for printing: Kirby, VT: Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson, age 25, of Locust Ridge Rd, went home to be with our Lord and Savior Jesus on May 11, 2022. Moriah passed away in Austin, Texas while she prepared to compete in the Gravel Locos bike race. Moriah was born on May 18, 1996 in Littleton, NH, daughter to Eric and Karen (Cronin) Wilson. She grew up in Kirby and attended Burke Town School, The Riverside School (2010), Burke Mountain Academy (2014) and Dartmouth College, receiving her Bachelor of Arts in Engineering in 2019. Moriah was a professional bike racer and worked as a demand planner for Specialized. In alpine skiing, Moriah rose to the level of a nationally ranked junior skier, placing 3rd in the 2013 U.S. Junior National Championship Downhill event. While at Dartmouth, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team - fulfilling a childhood dream. Her love of biking started at a young age. Growing up in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont, she spent many hours on the Kingdom Trails developing her skills and strength as a biker. After graduating from Dartmouth, Moriah shifted gears and continued to pursue her athletic dreams as an elite bike racer. After just two seasons, she rose to the top of both mountain and gravel racing in the nation, having earned numerous victories and podiums. A few weeks before her death, she had chosen to leave her job at Specialized and become a full time professional bike racer. Moriah also enjoyed cooking, writing, and traveling – she especially loved Italy, Taco Tuesdays, maple creemees and playing Catan with her friends. Most importantly, Moriah’s recent dream was to channel her success in ways to give back and inspire others around the world. Mo recently chose to call Vermont home again with a vision to create a local community space in East Burke, VT where bikers could gather throughout the day, feel welcome, share a good cup of coffee and a bite of locally sourced food. She is survived by her parents and brother: Eric, Karen and Matthew Wilson, all of Kirby, Vermont, her grandmother: Marilyn Wilson of Montpelier, Vermont, and numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins. She was predeceased by her grandparents: David Cronin in 2010, Donna Cronin in 2020 and Robert Wilson in 2021. A private Celebration of Life will be held for Moriah. Those closest to the family will be contacted with more information. A burial service will be held privately with interment at the Kirby Cemetery with Rev. Joel Battalglia of Lyndon Bible Church officiating. In her memory, we are raising money to help fund community organizations that help youth find self confidence, strength, and joy through biking, skiing, and other activities that Moriah was passionate about. We would also would like to include the opportunity to provide training support to ski racers at BMA and Dartmouth. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to one of the following: https://www.burkemtnacademy.org/donate-today Dartmouth College Friends of Skiing Condolences may be shared with the family at www.guibordfh.com. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Service map data © OpenStreetMap contributors


--- [Anna Moriah Wilson Obituary | Deaths | caledonianrecord.com] ---
No content


--- [Anna Moriah Wilson Murder: How Did She Die? Who Killed Her?] ---
’20/20: Three Shots in the Dark’ chronicles the tragic and untimely death of an up-and-coming cyclist, Anna Moriah Wilson, just a few days before a major race. Navigating us through the murder case, the episode delves deep into the events that led to the crime and the investigation that followed. It also includes insightful interviews with various individuals involved in the uncovering of the case, including the prosecutors, family members of the perpetrator, and neighbors who witnessed the arrest. How Did Anna Moriah Wilson Die? In the civil parish of Littleton, New Hampshire, Karen and Eric Wilson gave birth to their daughter Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson on May 18, 1996. Growing up, Mo was loved by her family, especially her brother Matthew Wilson, her grandmother Marilyn Wilson, and various cousins, aunts, and uncles. She spent most of her childhood in the town of Kirby, Vermont, and went to Burke Town School in the nearby town of Burke. To complete her middle school, she attended the Riverside School in Lyndonville. Then, she joined the Burke Mountain Academy and graduated from there in 2014. Meanwhile, being a sport-oriented individual, she tried her feet in alpine skiing and landed the 3rd place in the 2013 US Junior National Championship Downhill event. For college, Mo attended Dartmouth College where she earned her Bachelor’s degree in Engineering in 2019. There, she was a member of the Alpine Ski Team, which was one of her childhood dreams. Apart from skiing, she was interested in biking from a very young age and started taking it seriously when she realized her talent. As she spent several hours on the Kingdom Trails, she developed exceptional skills and strength as a biker. Once she completed her graduation, the ambitious young woman decided to pursue her dreams of becoming a professional bike racer. Thanks to her determination and perseverance, Mo managed to reach the top of both mountain as well as gravel bike racing in the nation, in a matter of just a couple of seasons. During these two seasons, she even won many accolades and podiums. When she was not biking, she worked as a demand planner for Specialized. Her other hobbies and interests included cooking, traveling, writing, and playing Catan with her friends. Being a selfless person, Mo also dreamed of making the most of her success, giving back to the community, and also inspiring others across the globe. She was working on building a small community space in East Burke, Vermont for bikers to gather throughout the day for some coffee and locally sourced food. Just a few weeks after she made the life-changing decision to leave her job at Specialized to fully focus on her career as a professional bike racer, the 25-year-old was found dead with multiple gunshot wounds — two in the head and one in the chest — in a friend’s house in Austin, Texas, on May 11, 2022, where she had been staying to prepare for the upcoming Gravel Locos bike race. As soon as word got around, the authorities rushed to the scene of the crime and began looking for evidence. Who Killed Anna Moriah Wilson? In order to gain more information about the life of Anna Moriah Wilson and the circumstances that led to her demise, the investigators talked to her friends and family. Upon interrogation, they learned that the victim had gone swimming at Deep Eddy Pool with a fellow cyclist and ex-boyfriend, Colin Strickland, on the afternoon of May 11, 2022. Following their swimming session, the two went for dinner as well. When the police questioned him, Strickland told them that he was in a long-term relationship with another girl named Kaitlin Armstrong and that the relationship he shared with Mo was entirely platonic, at the time of her demise. Upon digging deeper into Mo and Strickland’s relationship, they found out that they were still romantically involved. When the investigators learned that Kaitlin got to know about Strickland and Mo, they turned their attention toward her. They strongly suspected her to be connected to the murder of Mo after her black Jeep Grand Cherokee was seen arriving at the victim’s property in video surveillance footage, just a few minutes before the murder. The authorities received tips from anonymous sources claiming that Kaitlin had strictly asked Mo to stay away from her boyfriend and even said that she wanted to get rid of Mo once and for all. Another tipster even claimed that she had bought a firearm or was planning to buy one, which was confirmed by Strickland as he admitted purchasing two handguns for Kaitlin and himself. Kaitlin was arrested for an unrelated misdemeanor warrant for theft. During the interview, when she was confronted about the video footage of her car near Mo’s property, she made no statement at all. However, the investigators noticed an angry reaction at the mention of Mo’s name. Eventually, they had to let her go due to some discrepancies in her date of birth information on the warrant. After managing to get a search warrant for Kaitlin and Strickland’s residence, they searched around the property and discovered two handguns, one of which matched the murder weapon. It was found that Kaitlin went to a shooting range with her sister, allegedly to learn how to use a firearm. On all these grounds, the police issued an arrest warrant for her on May 17, 2022. However, Kaitlin had anticipated the situation and fled the country using a fake passport and landed in San Jose, Costa Rica. After spending 43 days on the run, she was finally captured by the police in a hostel in Santa Teresa, Costa Rica, on June 29, 2022. Less than a month later, on July 21, 2022, Kaitlin was arraigned before the court where she pleaded not guilty to the murder charge. A few days before her scheduled trial, she tried to escape from the officers while she was escorted to a medical appointment outside of the prison but was soon captured. Her trial finally commenced in late October 2023 and went on for a couple of weeks. After getting convicted of first-degree murder of Anna Moriah Wilson in 2022, she was sentenced to a total of 90 years of jail time, with the possibility of parole after 30 years. Soon after the sentencing, she appealed the conviction as the defense claimed that the convict was pregnant at the time of her arrest. Meanwhile, the prosecutors dropped the escape charges that she faced after her alleged October 2023 escape attempt. Currently, the 36-year-old killer is serving her sentence in Lucile Plane State Jail at 904 FM686 in Dayton. Read More: Dee Dee Blanchard Murder: How Did She Die? Who Killed Her?


--- [Inside the fatal Texas love triangle of yoga teacher and two ...] ---
Austin professional cyclist Colin Strickland apparently thought he was fooling his live-in girlfriend of three years, yoga teacher Kaitlin Armstrong. He snuck out to see a former fling — who was in town from San Francisco — early in the evening on May 11 and later texted Armstrong that he’d been off on an errand and his phone battery died. Armstrong knew better, police say. Video surveillance footage shows that one minute after Strickland, 34, dropped off his date, elite cyclist Anna Moriah “Mo” Wilson, a black SUV matching Armstrong’s pulled up at the apartment on Maple Avenue in East Austin where Wilson was staying. Wilson, 25, was found shot to death with a 9mm handgun multiple times later that night by her friend. According to the arrest affidavit, police believe Armstrong, 35, killed Wilson in a jealous rage, using a gun given to her by Strickland earlier this year. Neighbors wonder if the killer may even have used a silencer. Strickland, who has not been charged with any crime, appears to have given somewhat conflicting accounts of his relationship with Wilson, and others have contradicted his statements. “Colin’s a douche and a player,” a woman in Austin’s tight-knit cycling community told The Post. “All he cares about now is covering his ass.” Meanwhile, police say Armstrong is on the lam, having slipped through their fingers on a technicality after they questioned her two days after the murder. They believe she flew from Austin to New York City’s La Guardia Airport on May 14 — and then vanished from sight. The arrest warrant charging Armstrong with first-degree murder was not issued until three days later. So far, only Armstrong’s father is on the record saying she’s innocent. “I know her. I know how she thinks, and I know what she believes. And I know that she just would not do something like this,” Mike Armstrong, 62, told ABC’s “Good Morning America” last week. “We can’t imagine the pain the Wilson family is going through,” he added, saying “there are a lot of unanswered questions.” Wilson’s death has devastated her family in Vermont, where she grew up skiing and biking in an athletic family. A 2019 engineering graduate of Dartmouth College, she was a nationally-ranked skier who switched to gravel racing — a hybrid of road, cyclocross and mountain bike riding — according to her obituary. She was considered a rising star in the niche sport. She worked most recently as a demand planner for Specialized, a bike equipment company that sponsored Strickland but which has cut ties with him since the murder. According to the affidavit, Wilson was in Austin ahead of a bicycle race in Hico, Texas, where she planned to compete the following weekend. “Mo’s death is making lots of people realize that it’s important to live life fully as she did,” Linda Guerrette, a cyclist and professional photographer who took pictures of Wilson, told The Post. “She was a fierce competitor with utmost respect for all of her fellow competitors. Her simple philosophy of be your best self’ was all she asked of herself.” What has apparently pained the Wilson family even more are allegations in the affidavit that she and Strickland — who officially got together when the male cyclist said he was on a break from his romance with Armstrong — were still involved behind Armstrong’s back. “While we will not elaborate about the ongoing investigation, we do feel it’s important to clarify that at the time of her death, those closest to her clearly understood, directly from Moriah, that she was not in a romantic relationship with anyone,” the Wilson family wrote in a statement released after her murder. Her family created a GoFundMe where people can donate in lieu of flowers. “In her short time here, Moriah inspired many, lived fully, and loved fiercely,” it reads. “In her memory, we are raising money to help fund community organizations that help youth find self-confidence, strength, and joy through biking, skiing and other activities that Moriah was passionate about.” The alleged deadly love triangle is spelled out in unusual detail in the police affidavit: The friend Wilson was staying with and who found her body told police Wilson had gone out to join Strickland at Austin’s famed Deep Eddy city pool. When cops went to Strickland’s address to question him, they spotted an SUV in the driveway that was nearly identical to the one seen on surveillance footage pulling up to the Maple Avenue apartment the night of the murder. In an interview with police the day after the murder, Strickland said he had dated Wilson for a week in October 2021 while he and Armstrong were briefly broken up. But he admitted that Armstrong called Wilson, informing Wilson that she was Strickland’s girlfriend. Strickland also said he changed Wilson’s name in his phone after Armstrong had blocked the other woman’s number. He also admitted to deleting texts from Wilson so Armstrong wouldn’t see them. (On May 20, however, Strickland issued a statement in which he maintained he and Wilson had only a “platonic and professional” relationship after their October tryst but made clear that they saw each other often “in public settings.” He did not return phone calls from The Post. Strickland said he and Wilson went swimming and then had dinner at the nearby Pool Burger restaurant. He dropped her off a little after 8:30 p.m. then texted Armstrong with what he admitted to police was a lie. “Hey? Are you out?” he messaged her. “I went to drop some flowers for Alison at her son’s house up north and my phone died. Heading home unless you have another food suggestion.” Strickland also lavished Wilson with praise during the police interview, calling her “the best female cyclist in the world” and referring to Armstrong, who was more of an amateur cyclist, as merely a “participant” at races. He said Armstrong complained that he was “grumpy” when he had to wait for her to catch up to him during bike racing training. Strickland also said he had purchased two firearms, a Springfield Armory handgun for himself and a Sig Sauer handgun for Armstrong, sometime between December 2021 and January 2022. Police later found shell casings at the Maple Avenue apartment that could have come from the Sig Sauer gun, they said. At the same time a detective was interviewing Strickland, another detective brought Armstrong in for questioning based on an unrelated misdemeanor warrant out for her, the affidavit stated. Armstrong had little to say when confronted about her car having been seen on video near the apartment on the day of the murder. She remained “still and guarded,” the affidavit states. She did deny angrily knowing anything about Strickland being with “this girl.” She was allowed to leave after questioning. Austin police did not say what the misdemeanor warrant was for and did not respond to calls from The Post. In an odd twist, cops said at a May 25 press conference that, had it not been for a discrepancy between the birth date on Armstrong’s misdemeanor warrant and her actual birth date, detectives might have been able to take her into custody after questioning her. To complicate matters, police spoke to a friend of Wilson’s on May 13, who said Strickland and Wilson had been “on again and off again” but had had multiple romantic liaisons. The friend said Armstrong had warned Wilson to stay away from Strickland. There was also an anonymous tipster who contradicted Strickland’s statements that he and Wilson had only a platonic and professional relationship after their initial tryst in October 2021. This person called cops on May 14 and said she had been with Armstrong in January 2022 when Armstrong found out that Strickland was allegedly still seeing Wilson. The caller said Armstrong “became furious and was shaking with anger” and told her she wanted to kill Wilson, the affidavit stated. After going through Wilson’s phone, police appear to back up the idea that she may have still considered herself in some sort of relationship with Strickland. According to the affidavit, Wilson sent Strickland a text in January 2022 after apparently being at an event where she saw Strickland with Armstrong. “Hey!!” she wrote. “Sooo I would like to talk to you at some point. I had originally texted you on Friday but it appears my texts aren’t going through again. This weekend was strange for me and I just want to know what’s going on. If you just want to be friends (seems to be the case) then that’s cool but I’d like to talk about it ’cause honestly my mind has been going circles and I don’t know what to think.” Strickland responded in a text: “Hey Mo I feel very s–tty for putting you in a position where you don’t feel comfortable. Kaitlin came along … In hindsight, this was not a good idea.” Caitlin Cash, the friend with whom Mo Wilson was staying, was not reachable by The Post. One of many unanswered questions about the murder involves the only thing missing from the apartment after Wilson’s murder: her expensive racing bike. Investigators found that it had been dragged out of the apartment and hidden beneath thick bamboo 20 yards away. In an interview not long before her death, Wilson downplayed the buzz around her rising stardom in racing as if she perhaps knew her life was not as charmed as many thought. “Sometimes when people ask, ‘Oh, when did you know you were gonna win?’ I don’t like that question,” Wilson told Velo News shortly before she was killed. “It assumes that I feel that way … sure, maybe there are times I feel pretty confident that I’m going to win but it’s usually a fight ’til the end. You never, ever know what’s gonna happen. So I never try to feel that confident. I never like to feel like I have it ‘in the bag,’ so to speak.”
