=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Wikipedia]
Ghulam Ishaq Khan[a] (20 January 1915 – 27 October 2006), commonly known by his initials GIK, was a Pakistani bureaucrat, politician and statesman who served as the seventh president of Pakistan from 1988 to 1993.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghulam_Ishaq_Khan

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan | PrideOfPakistan.com]
In 1956, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was appointed Home Secretary of Sindh, and later Secretary of Sindh Department of Development and Irrigation. In 1958, he was elevated to federal government, and was appointed as the secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
URL: https://www.prideofpakistan.com/who-is-who-detail/Ghulam-Ishaq-Khan/779

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan | Pride of Pakistan | Commemorations ...]
In 1956, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was appointed Home Secretary of Sindh, and later Secretary of Sindh Department of Development and Irrigation. In 1958, he was elevated to federal government, and was appointed as the secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
URL: https://prideofpakistan.com/detail-who-is-who.php?id=779

[- Ghulam Ishaq Khan passes away]
Before rising to echelons of power in mid 1950s, during his early years in the government service he served as a treasury officer in Bannu, extra assistance ...
URL: https://www.almotamar.net/en/1330.htm

[Ghulam Ishaq Khan | Inspiring Pakistan]
Apr 8, 2013 — In 1956, he became Home secretary of Sindh Province, but was ... In 1971, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto appointed him as the Governor of State Bank ...
URL: https://pakistanoverview.wordpress.com/2013/04/08/ghulam-ishaq-khan/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan - Wikipedia] ---
Ghulam Ishaq Khan (20 January 1915 – 27 October 2006), commonly known by his initials GIK, was a Pakistani bureaucrat, politician and statesman who served as the seventh president of Pakistan from 1988 to 1993. He previously served as chairman of the Senate from 1985 to 1988 under president Zia-ul-Haq, and assumed the presidency in accordance with the constitutional line of succession following Zia's death .
Raised in Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Khan graduated from Peshawar University and entered the Indian Civil Service, opting for Pakistan after the independence in 1947. Appointed the first chairman of the Water and Power Development Authority by President Ayub Khan in 1961, Ghulam Ishaq also served as Finance Secretary from 1966 to 1970. A year later, he was appointed Governor of the State Bank by President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, before being made Defence Secretary in 1975, assisting with Pakistan's atomic bomb programme. He was retained by President Zia-ul-Haq as Finance Minister in 1977, overseeing the country's highest GDP growth average. Elected Chairman of the Senate in 1985, Khan was elevated to the presidency after Zia's death in an air crash on 17 August 1988. He was elected president on 13 December, as the consensus candidate of the Islami Jamhoori Ittehad and Pakistan People's Party.
The oldest person to serve as president, Ghulam Ishaq Khan played a hawkish role against Communist Afghanistan, while relations with the United States deteriorated following the Pressler amendment. Domestically, Khan's term faced challenges: ethnic riots flared in Karachi, and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto accused him of frustrating her government as part of an alliance with conservative opposition leader Nawaz Sharif and the post-Zia military establishment. Khan invoked the Eighth Amendment and dismissed Benazir's government after just 20 months, on charges of rampant corruption and misgovernance. Sharif was elected Prime Minister in 1990, but Khan dismissed his government on similar charges three years later. The Supreme Court overturned the dismissal, but the gridlock ultimately led to both men resigning in 1993. He was the founder of his namesake Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute.
Retiring from public service, Khan served as rector of the GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology in his native province, dying from pneumonia in 2006. He is viewed contentiously by Pakistani historians; he is credited with personal austerity, but criticized for wielding an autocratic presidency that ousted two governments.


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan | PrideOfPakistan.com] ---
Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who served as the 7th President of Pakistan was born (20 January 1915) and raised in Ismail Khel, a rural locality on the outskirts of Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KPK). His family remains active in Ghulam Ishaq Khan Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who served as the 7th President of Pakistan was born (20 January 1915) and raised in Ismail Khel, a rural locality on the outskirts of Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KPK). His family remains active in politics, his son-in-law, Anwar Saifullah Khan is former federal minister and his granddaughter is married to Omar Ayub Khan, the grandson of former president Ayub Khan and son of politician Gohar Ayub Khan. After his early education in Bannu, Ghulam Ishaq Khan first attended the Islamia College and then went to Peshawar University. He obtained double BSc, in Chemistry and in Botany. Initially looking for a university job, Ghulam Ishaq Khan joined the Indian Civil Service in 1941, serving in various provincial assignments on behalf of British India. After independence in 1947, Ghulam Ishaq Khan opted for Pakistan and was assigned to the bureaucracy of the provincial government of North-West Frontier Province (now KPK) in 1947. He served as the secretary of the irrigation department, until 1955. In 1956, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was appointed Home Secretary of Sindh, and later Secretary of Sindh Department of Development and Irrigation. In 1958, he was elevated to federal government, and was appointed as the secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1958, Ghulam Ishaq Khan joined the board of governors at the Water and Power Development Authority and subsequently promoted to Chairman in 1961. As Chairman, he played a vital role in the construction and financial development of Mangla Dam and Warsak Dam. In 1966, Ghulam Ishaq Khan left the chairmanship to be appointed as Finance Secretary. In 1971, Zulifiqar Ali Bhutto appointed him Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan and in 1975, posted him at the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as Defence Secretary, which brought him into close contact with the military establishment. Though an unusual assignment for a financial expert, this appointment made him a power bureaucrat in the country. During that time, Ghulam Ishaq Khan became closer to General Zia-ul-Haq and had later coveted for General Zia-ul-Haq's appointment as the chief of army staff. As Defence Secretary, he helped manage the Pakistan's large but integrated nuclear project and had been directly associated with the programme. He backed the advocacy of Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan and helped establishing the Engineering Research Laboratories (ERL) in Kahuta. He headed the Uranium Coordination Board (UCB) which consisted of AGN Kazi, Munir Ahmad, and Agha Shahi and later helped to consolidate the efforts at ERL under Lt. Gen. Zahid Ali Akbar as its first military director. After approving the survey by General Akbar, he helped to secure the funds for the ERL works and providing lobbying for General Akbar's promotion as the Engineer-in-Chief. After the Prime Minister Bhutto was ousted in a staged coup d'état in 1977, Ghulam Ishaq Khan played a crucial role in the event of stabilizing chief of army staff General Zia-ul-Haq, in Bhutto's capacity. After meeting with the military leadership at the JS HQ, Ghulam Ishaq Khan reportedly marked that, this action was going to harm the country, but since it could not be reversed, they should do their best to salvage whatever they could. He was immediately elevated as Finance Minister by General Zia-ul-Haq, who acted as the Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA). A team of economic experts and technocrats were assembled in the management of Ghulam Ishaq Khan, and giving him the authority over the Planning Commission, Economic Coordination Committee, and Executive Committee of the Space Research Council. Ghulam Ishaq Khan worked towards controlling the national economy while harnessing the damaged Private sector. In 1977, Ghulam Ishaq Khan endorsed General Zia-ul-Haq's bid for becoming the President of Pakistan who tightened the grip of martial law in the country. In the 1980s, Ghulam Ishaq Khan backed the implementation of the economic Islamization by introducing the risk-free interest rate system. He managed the revenue collection and provided the modern shape in the state–owned enterprises (SOEs) that were established in a nationalization in the 1970s. His policies and economic expertise ultimately resulted in the improvement in GDP and GNP progress, helping Pakistan's economy become among the fastest-growing in South Asia. After the non-partisan general elections held in 1985, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was succeeded by Mahbub ul Haq an economist and decided to participate in the upcoming indirect senate elections. In 1985, he became Chairman of the Senate which he remained intact in that capacity until 1988. After the mysterious plane crash occurred in Bahawalpur, Ghulam Ishaq Khan appeared on national television to announce the death of General Zia-ul-Haq. According to the Constitution of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was the second in the line of succession to the President of Pakistan. However, General Mirza Aslam Beg called out for the general elections held in 1988. Until the elections, Ghulam Ishaq Khan served as an acting President in accordance with the Constitutional rules of succession. Reaching the mutual understanding with the leftist Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP), Ghulam Ishaq Khan participated in presidential elections on a PPP platform. He secured 608 votes against the four candidates who took part in the election. He was also supported by the conservative Nawaz Sharif. As president, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was marred with political struggle with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto who attempted for pushing the bill to reverse the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan. Furthermore, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was in a conflict with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in two areas, the appointment of the military chiefs of staff and the Justices of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. Ghulam Ishaq Khan consolidated his position in controlling the nuclear deterrence, keeping all the control over the programme's direction. Problems arose when Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto made contacts with Dr. Munir Ahmad and Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan over the programme's direction, which frustrated Ghulam Ishaq Khan. Economic growth slowed down and introduction of the US Embargo on Pakistan caused a great economic panic in the country. In the 1990s, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto failed to arrest the 30% fall in the value of Rupee from 21 to 30 to the US $. Ghulam Ishaq Khan struggled to control the law and order in the country after witnessing the troop retreat from Afghanistan. Although, he maintained an ally of the United States. As economic and law and order crises deepened, Ghulam Ishaq Khan used Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Pakistan and dismissed Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's government over the charges of corruption and deteriorating law and order situation and announced the fresh elections in the country. After holding the general elections in 1993, he supported Nawaz Sharif as Prime Minister and his government. Problems with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif arose with the issue of reversing the Eighth Amendment when Nawaz Sharif tried to pass the bill. Eventually, he used the Eighth Amendment to dismiss Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on similar charges, but Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif retaliated and challenged him in the Supreme Court of Pakistan. His attempt to use the Eighth Amendment was marked as illegal by the Supreme Court of Pakistan, and reinstated Prime Minister Sharif. But, the political deadlock remained and the joint intervention of judiciary and the military resulted in forced resignation of both Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Ghulam Ishaq Khan. In 1988, Ghulam Ishaq Khan founded and established the famed Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology that offers world-class programmes in engineering, and science and technology in the country. The university was established with the financial support from BCCI. He invited Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan, who took the professorship of physics and delegated Asghar Qadir, a PAEC mathematician, to take professorship in mathematics. He died on 27 October 2006, after a bout of pneumonia.


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan | Pride of Pakistan | Commemorations ...] ---
Ghulam Ishaq Khan, who served as the 7th President of Pakistan was born (20 January 1915) and raised in Ismail Khel, a rural locality on the outskirts of Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (KPK). His family remains active in politics, his son-in-law, Anwar Saifullah Khan is former federal minister and his granddaughter is married to Omar Ayub Khan, the grandson of former president Ayub Khan and son of politician Gohar Ayub Khan. After his early education in Bannu, Ghulam Ishaq Khan first attended the Islamia College and then went to Peshawar University. He obtained double BSc, in Chemistry and in Botany. Initially looking for a university job, Ghulam Ishaq Khan joined the Indian Civil Service in 1941, serving in various provincial assignments on behalf of British India. After independence in 1947, Ghulam Ishaq Khan opted for Pakistan and was assigned to the bureaucracy of the provincial government of North-West Frontier Province (now KPK) in 1947. He served as the secretary of the irrigation department, until 1955. In 1956, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was appointed Home Secretary of Sindh, and later Secretary of Sindh Department of Development and Irrigation. In 1958, he was elevated to federal government, and was appointed as the secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1958, Ghulam Ishaq Khan joined the board of governors at the Water and Power Development Authority and subsequently promoted to Chairman in 1961. As Chairman, he played a vital role in the construction and financial development of Mangla Dam and Warsak Dam. In 1966, Ghulam Ishaq Khan left the chairmanship to be appointed as Finance Secretary. In 1971, Zulifiqar Ali Bhutto appointed him Governor of the State Bank of Pakistan and in 1975, posted him at the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as Defence Secretary, which brought him into close contact with the military establishment. Though an unusual assignment for a financial expert, this appointment made him a power bureaucrat in the country. During that time, Ghulam Ishaq Khan became closer to General Zia-ul-Haq and had later coveted for General Zia-ul-Haq's appointment as the chief of army staff. As Defence Secretary, he helped manage the Pakistan's large but integrated nuclear project and had been directly associated with the programme. He backed the advocacy of Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan and helped establishing the Engineering Research Laboratories (ERL) in Kahuta. He headed the Uranium Coordination Board (UCB) which consisted of AGN Kazi, Munir Ahmad, and Agha Shahi and later helped to consolidate the efforts at ERL under Lt. Gen. Zahid Ali Akbar as its first military director. After approving the survey by General Akbar, he helped to secure the funds for the ERL works and providing lobbying for General Akbar's promotion as the Engineer-in-Chief. After the Prime Minister Bhutto was ousted in a staged coup d'état in 1977, Ghulam Ishaq Khan played a crucial role in the event of stabilizing chief of army staff General Zia-ul-Haq, in Bhutto's capacity. After meeting with the military leadership at the JS HQ, Ghulam Ishaq Khan reportedly marked that, this action was going to harm the country, but since it could not be reversed, they should do their best to salvage whatever they could. He was immediately elevated as Finance Minister by General Zia-ul-Haq, who acted as the Chief Martial Law Administrator (CMLA). A team of economic experts and technocrats were assembled in the management of Ghulam Ishaq Khan, and giving him the authority over the Planning Commission, Economic Coordination Committee, and Executive Committee of the Space Research Council. Ghulam Ishaq Khan worked towards controlling the national economy while harnessing the damaged Private sector. In 1977, Ghulam Ishaq Khan endorsed General Zia-ul-Haq's bid for becoming the President of Pakistan who tightened the grip of martial law in the country. In the 1980s, Ghulam Ishaq Khan backed the implementation of the economic Islamization by introducing the risk-free interest rate system. He managed the revenue collection and provided the modern shape in the state–owned enterprises (SOEs) that were established in a nationalization in the 1970s. His policies and economic expertise ultimately resulted in the improvement in GDP and GNP progress, helping Pakistan's economy become among the fastest-growing in South Asia. After the non-partisan general elections held in 1985, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was succeeded by Mahbub ul Haq an economist and decided to participate in the upcoming indirect senate elections. In 1985, he became Chairman of the Senate which he remained intact in that capacity until 1988. After the mysterious plane crash occurred in Bahawalpur, Ghulam Ishaq Khan appeared on national television to announce the death of General Zia-ul-Haq. According to the Constitution of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was the second in the line of succession to the President of Pakistan. However, General Mirza Aslam Beg called out for the general elections held in 1988. Until the elections, Ghulam Ishaq Khan served as an acting President in accordance with the Constitutional rules of succession. Reaching the mutual understanding with the leftist Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP), Ghulam Ishaq Khan participated in presidential elections on a PPP platform. He secured 608 votes against the four candidates who took part in the election. He was also supported by the conservative Nawaz Sharif. As president, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was marred with political struggle with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto who attempted for pushing the bill to reverse the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan. Furthermore, Ghulam Ishaq Khan was in a conflict with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in two areas, the appointment of the military chiefs of staff and the Justices of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. Ghulam Ishaq Khan consolidated his position in controlling the nuclear deterrence, keeping all the control over the programme's direction. Problems arose when Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto made contacts with Dr. Munir Ahmad and Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan over the programme's direction, which frustrated Ghulam Ishaq Khan. Economic growth slowed down and introduction of the US Embargo on Pakistan caused a great economic panic in the country. In the 1990s, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto failed to arrest the 30% fall in the value of Rupee from 21 to 30 to the US $. Ghulam Ishaq Khan struggled to control the law and order in the country after witnessing the troop retreat from Afghanistan. Although, he maintained an ally of the United States. As economic and law and order crises deepened, Ghulam Ishaq Khan used Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Pakistan and dismissed Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's government over the charges of corruption and deteriorating law and order situation and announced the fresh elections in the country. After holding the general elections in 1993, he supported Nawaz Sharif as Prime Minister and his government. Problems with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif arose with the issue of reversing the Eighth Amendment when Nawaz Sharif tried to pass the bill. Eventually, he used the Eighth Amendment to dismiss Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on similar charges, but Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif retaliated and challenged him in the Supreme Court of Pakistan. His attempt to use the Eighth Amendment was marked as illegal by the Supreme Court of Pakistan, and reinstated Prime Minister Sharif. But, the political deadlock remained and the joint intervention of judiciary and the military resulted in forced resignation of both Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Ghulam Ishaq Khan. In 1988, Ghulam Ishaq Khan founded and established the famed Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology that offers world-class programmes in engineering, and science and technology in the country. The university was established with the financial support from BCCI. He invited Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan, who took the professorship of physics and delegated Asghar Qadir, a PAEC mathematician, to take professorship in mathematics. He died on 27 October 2006, after a bout of pneumonia.


--- [- Ghulam Ishaq Khan passes away] ---
Google News - PESHAWAR, Oct 27: From an extra assistant commissioner to one of Pakistan’s most powerful presidents, who dismissed two democratically-elected governments, Ghulam Ishaq Khan’s eventful life spanning over 92 years came to an end here on Friday. The former president was laid to rest after breathing his last at his University Town residence at 10:55am. He was about 92 years of age. His death has brought to an end an important chapter of the country’s chequered political history as during his prolonged stint in the corridors of power he saw several governments being overthrown. He was instrumental in dislodging two elected governments — one led by former prime minister Benazir Bhutto and the other one led by former prime minister Nawaz Sharif — and in the process installed his handpicked interim governments first under a deal with Nawaz Sharif in 1990 and later with Benazir Bhutto in 1993. However, since his departure from the President’s House in 1993 under a compromise deal brokered by former Chief of Army Staff Gen Abdul Waheed Kakar that also saw the exit of the then prime minister Mian Mohammed Nawaz Sharif, the ailing former president was leading a rather secluded life. The former President had since his departure from the Presidency, never uttered a word about his involvement in removing either the Benazir’s or Nawaz governments. “He would never speak about those days and happenings around him as he always chose to keep memories of those times close to his heart describing them as state’s secrets,” says Haroon Bilour, Mr Khan’s family member. Having remained close to former prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, military dictator Ziaul Haq and serving as the president of Pakistan, he is considered to have played a pivotal role in implementing the country’s nuclear programme, prompting a US diplomat to call him ‘Mr Nuke’, his long-time associate and aide, Roedad Khan said. His family members said that since his retirement he had dedicated most of his time to reading newspapers and books, gardening and taking care of his pet dogs. For the past six months, they said, the ageing former president had lost interest in all those hobbies and had grown so weak that he could walk only with support and felt comfortable in using a wheelchair. His brother-in-law Shaukatullah Khan said: “He passed away as quitely as he had been throughout his life.” Veteran politicians Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Chaudhary Shujjat Hussain, Maulana Samiul Haq, Gohar Ayub Khan, former President Farooq Laghari, Sindh Chief Minister Arbab Ghulam Rahim, NWFP Governor Lt-Gen (retd) Ali Mohammed Jan Aurakzai, federal ministers Ijazul Haq and Salim Saifullah Khan, federal minister of state Omer Ayub and political leaders and activists belonging to different political parties took part in last rituals and attended his funeral prayers at University Town Club, Park Road, here. Later, Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz also visited his residence to offer condolence to his family. Strict security measures had been taken on the occasion. Attended by hundreds of people representing different walks of life, his funeral procession was given official protocol in his capacity as the former head of the state. He was buried in the graveyard located in the University Town, Peshawar. He has left behind an extended family including one son, Mamoon Ishaq Khan and five daughters Samina, Rakhsha, Nilofar, Yasmin and Nageen — with the first two married to former federal minister Anwar Saifullah and sitting provincial minister from Sindh Irfanullah Marwat, respectively. Born on January 15, 1915 in Ismail Khel village, some eight kilometres from Bannu towards Lakki Marwat, Mr Khan performed a key role in the power game that invariably strengthened invisible forces at the cost of democracy in the country. He has to his credit the establishment of Rs2.2 billion Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Science and Technology in Swabi. Starting his professional career as a junior civil servant well before the sub-continent’s partition in 1947, Mr Khan made a steady journey upward to become an all-powerful president of Pakistan in 1988 — an office he held for over four years. According to his family members, Mr Khan, who was a child when his father died, after doing his graduation in chemistry and botany joined the NWFP Civil Service in 1938. Before rising to echelons of power in mid 1950s, during his early years in the government service he served as a treasury officer in Bannu, extra assistance commissioner in Abbottabad, assistant commissioner of Haripur and Nowshera and bursar at the Islamia Collegel in Peshawar in mid 1940s. Brushing aside as a mere propaganda by his opponents, his son- in-law Dr Zafar Durrani said Mr Khan had never served as a ‘Naib Tehsildar’ — as the word goes about the former president’s rise to power. “He would never hesitate to accept that he has served on minor posts as well before assuming key offices through sheer hard work,” said his brother-in-law Shakatullah Khan. After serving as the Development Commissioner of NWFP in early 1950s, Mr Khan, according to his family members, served as the federal secretary irrigation, water and power 1954 onward before becoming member finance in the water and power development authority in 1956, Wapda chairman in 1963, secretary finance and secretary cabinet in the second half of 1960s. In December 1971, the then prime minister Zulfikar Bhutto appointed Ghulam Ishaq Khan the governor of the State Bank — the post he occupied for slightly over three years before being made secretary defence in March 1975. From there he was elevated to the post of secretary-general-in-chief in July 1977 shortly after the then Chief of Army Staff Gen Ziaul Haq pronounced himself as the ‘Chief Martial Law Administrator’, suspended the country’s constitution and overthrew the elected government of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in a successful late night military coup. Later, he also served as federal finance minister in the Zia’s military dispensation and got elected as a member of the Senate on the NWFP’s quota of seats reserved for technocrats in early 1985 before being nominated by the military dictator as a candidate in the elections of senate’s chairman.


--- [Ghulam Ishaq Khan | Inspiring Pakistan] ---
Ghulam Ishaq Khan (Urdu: غلام اسحاق خان ; 20 January 1915 – 27 October 2006), sometimes abbreviated to GIK, was the 7th President of Pakistan from 1988 until his resignation in 1993, the only President to have come from the civil bureaucracy.[1] Born in Bannu District, Frontier Province of the British Indian Empire, Ghulam Ishaq was educated at Islamia College and graduated from the Peshawar University, before embarking his statesmanship as a junior bureaucrat in the Pakistan Government. Securing the appointment as the first chairman of the Water and Power Development Authority by President Ayub Khan in 1961, Ghulam Ishaq would also tenured as the Finance Secretary from 1966 to 1970. A year later, he was elevated as the Governor of the State Bank by Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, before being made Defence Secretary in 1975, assisting with Pakistan’s clandestine atomic bomb project. He was retained by President Zia-ul-Haq as Finance Minister in 1977, overseeing high rates of economic growth and social changes. Having been elected Chairman of the Senate in 1985, Ghulam Ishaq was elevated to the presidency after Zia’s death in an air crash on 17 August 1988. As president, Ghulam Ishaq escalated his role in neighboring Afghanistan, he subsequently witnessed the end of the Soviet occupation, but his personal relations with the Soviet Union and the United States deteriorated. Domestically, Ghulam Ishaq’s term faced challenging problems; ethnic riots flared in Karachi, currency crises weakened the national economy, and the power struggle with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who came to power after being elected in 1988. After Benazir Bhutto accused him of frustrating her government as part of an alliance with conservative opposition leader Nawaz Sharif; Ghulam Ishaq invoked the Eight Amendment and dismissed Benazir’s government after just 20 months, on charges of corruption and misgovernance. But when Sharif was elected Prime Minister in 1990, the tussle between presidency and premiership grew worse. Ghulam Ishaq attempted to dismiss his government on similar charges but Sharif resisted, appealing to the Supreme Court and having the President’s decision overturned. The gridlock ultimately led to the resignation of both individuals in 1993 in an agreement brokered by the military. Retiring from public service, Ghulam Ishaq served as the founding rector of the GIK Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology in his native province. Early life and education Ghulam Ishaq Khan was born in a small village, located in Ismail Khel to an ethnic Bangash–Pashtun family, in the suburbs of the Bannu District located in the North-West Frontier Province of British Indian Empire, now Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province of State of Pakistan.[2][3] After matriculating from local high school, Ghulam Ishaq attended the Islamia College Peshawar in 1933, entering to attend the basic science courses.[2] After attending the first semester, Ghulam Ishaq made a transfer to University of Peshawar where he enrolled in the department of science after declaring his major in chemistry.[3] In 1938, Ghulam Ishaq Khan earned bachelor of science degree, in Chemistry[2] and Botany;[2] he would later go on to attend the post graduate school at the same institution in 1938. In 1940, he submitted his master’s thesis and earned M.Sc in Nuclear chemistry, where he did fundamental research in atomic nucleus.[2][3] Statesmanship Initially looking for a university job, Ghulam Ishaq instead applied for the prestigious Indian Civil Service and took an ICS exam with high marks.[2] In 1941, he took his first civil service assignment in the Government of British Indian Empire.[2] After the Indian partition, he was opted the citizenship of newly created, State of Pakistan, and accepted the civil service appointment for the provisional government of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province in 1947. He took over the provisional secretariat as the secretary of the irrigation department which he held until 1955.[2] His son-in-law is senior politician Anwar Saifullah Khan. A grand-daughter of his is married to Omar Ayub Khan, who is the grandson of former Pakistani President Ayub Khan and son of Gohar Ayub Khan. In 1956, he settled in Sindh Province and appointed as “secretary general-in-chief” in the provisional government.[4] In 1956, he became Home secretary of Sindh Province, but was later posted as the secretary of department of Development and Irrigation (D&I).[5] In 1958, he was called at the federal government level after being promoted to higher grade, and took the secretariat control of the Ministry of Agriculture, an appointment approved by the President Ayub Khan.[5] In 1961, he was appointed as the first chairman of Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) in 1961 by President Field Marshal Ayub Khan. During his capacity as chairman, he played a vital and influential role in the construction and financial development of Mangla Dam and the Warsak Dam.[5] In 1966, Ishaq Khan was relieved from his position and ascended was the Finance Secretary of the Finance ministry until 1970 when he resigned from his position in favor of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.[5] After witnessing the disastrous Indo-Pakistani Winter War of 1971, Ghulam Ishaq was tasked with to administer the retail and commercial services, since the national economy was in the fragile state.[6] This task was considered quiet difficult and challenging for a country that was dismembered as a result of this war.[6] In 1971, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto appointed him as the Governor of State Bank of Pakistan when he was tasked to carry out monetary and credit policy in accordance to Government policy with influence of socialism.[7] In the latter position, he questioned the wisdom of a number of the economic policies of then Prime Minister Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto who was keen to intensify his nationalization and socialist influence in the financial institutions that marked the slow down of the economy.[7][8] Secretary of Defence In 1977, Bhutto subsequently removed Ghulam Ishaq from the State Bank services, instead approving the appointment as the Defence Secretariat of Ministry of Defence (MoD), a prestigious post for the statesman and stateswoman in the Government.[7] Although an unusual post for a senior economics expert, it proved to be fortuitous in that it brought him into close contact with the senior officers of the Pakistan Armed Forces.[8] That appointment proved be very helpful for Ghulam Ishaq’ career, and bought him it put him in direct contact with the Pakistan Army.[7] At that time, he was most senior ranking civilian in the army and had the control over the major defence formation of the army.[8] It was in the army, he became closer to chief of army staff general Zia-ul-Haq.[8] Role in the atomic bomb project Ghulam Ishaq Khan was one of the vital administrator of Pakistan’s integrated atomic bomb project, and was one directly associated statesman of the program.[9] As Defense secretary, asserted his role in Pakistan’s integrated atomic bomb project and had been in every meeting with Bhutto in approving the national nuclear policy.[9] On August 1976, he first met with nuclear theorist dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan and helped him establishing the Engineering Research Laboratories (ERL).[9] Later that day, he established the committee, responsible for evaluation of the site in which, where the ERL was had to be established. This top policy committee had AGN Kazi, Munir Khan, and Agha Shahi, chaired by Ghulam Ishaq.[9] During the time of ERL established, Ghulam Ishaq consolidated the military control of the atomic project under general Zahid Ali Akbar and the Corps of Engineers.[9] By the end of 1976, Ishaq Khan was appointed as the defence administrator of the Uranium Coordination Board (UCB) that overlooks the scientific aspects of the uranium enrichment, as part of this, Brigadier-General Zahid Ali Akbar submitted a survey and map of Kahuta and the Engineering Research Laboratories (ERL) to Ghulam Ishaq’s secretariat.[9] Ghulam Ishaq played a major role in the military career of general Zahid Ali Akbar and supported Akbar’s three-star rank and appointment, Engineer-in-Chief.[9] Meanwhile, he became closer and maintained extremely closed relationship with Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan and Munir Ahmad Khan, and remained Qadeer Khan’s staunch loyal.[9] Ghulam Ishaq Khan, as President of Pakistan, established Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology (GIKI) that offers world-class programmes in engineering, and science and technology in the country. In 1990, he invited Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan to become institute’s executive member, and with his support, Abdul Qadeer Khan became the took the professorship of physics. Khan also delegated Asghar Qadir, a PAEC mathematician, to become a head of Department of Mathematics as well as awarding him the professorship in mathematics. On Contrary, Ishaq Khan did not have the directorial role in the atomic bomb program until Munir Ahmad Khan retired. After Munir Ahmad Khan took retirement from Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission (PAEC), President Ghulam Ishaq Khan eventually consolidated the entire program under the civic-military control, and supervised the classified projects of the program. In 1980s, Ghulam Ishaq had an extremely important and influential role in scientific and political aspects of the atomic bomb programs, that at one occasion one U.S. diplomat dubbed him as “Mr. Nuke“;[2][7] domestically, he earn the title as “Atomic Baba” or “Baba Atom“.[3] Earlier being as finance minister, he had the nuclear deterrence as his top priority and channeled financial funds for the development of the atomic bomb projects. In 1983, as Chairman of Senate, he was one of the invited high civil officials, who reportedly, were supposed to be present at the Cold test, along with Lieutenant-General Zahid Ali Akbar — E-in-C of Corps of Engineers— General Khalid Mehmud Arif — Vice Chief of Army Staff — Air Vice-Marshal Michael John O’Brian— AOC of Sargodha Air Force Base— and Chairman of Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission Munir Ahmad Khan.[10] Minister of Finance According to A.Q. Khan’s memoir, the ouster of Zulfikar Bhutto was notably a major event in his life.[9] The time military coup, codename: Fair Play, initiated against Bhutto, Ghulam Ishaq was preparing to meet with Bhutto to present the assessment report on the enrichment project.[9] Ghulam Ishaq came in initial state of shock when he received a call from the General Headquarters (GHQ) that a coup had been initiated under chief of army staff General Zia-ul-Haq to oust Bhutto.[9] He was asked to report back to GHQ immediately to meet with chief of army staff.[9] At this meeting, Ghulam Ishaq reportedly told the chief of army staff and top military leadership, that “this action was going to harm the country, but since it could not be reversed, they should do their best to salvage whatever they could.[9] In 1978, Zia promoted Ghulam Ishaq to Ministry of Finance and appointed him as Finance minister.[11] Zia left the economic management to a team of technocrats working under Ghulam Ishaq Khan, and during time time, Ghulam Ishaq was the chairman of Planning Commission, Economic Coordination Committee and the Executive Committee of the Space Research Council.[11] Ultimately, he was entrusted with the task of managing and controlling the national economy and the Private sector. Ghulam Ishaq supervised the successful implementation of market corporatization and remains supported economic Islamization by changes in the fiscal and banking systems.[11] He played a vital and important role in shaping and implementing the economic policy, including managing the public state enterprises.[11] Ghulam Ishaq successfully campaigned and won the 1985 parliamentary elections for the Senate Secretariat.[12] After the controversial and mysterious aviation accident occurred in Bahawalpur, Ghulam Ishaq appeared in national television where he announced the death of General Zia-ul-Haq.[12] In 1988, Ghulam Ishaq became acting President in accordance with the Constitutional rules of succession, and was formally elected to the position in December of that year.[12] Presidency As President, Pakistan’s economy suffered with economic and political upheavals. During his Presidency, the economic issue was considered a national highest priority. However, after the Pressler amendment came into effect by the United States, a large military and economic embargo was forced on Pakistan, and many commercial relations to Pakistan were cut off. During his time, the nuclear development, economic issues, and political stability, was considered his presidency’s highest priority. But, Khan’s presidency failed to arrest the control of currency and a new currency crises hampered the Pakistan economy badly. Khan repeatedely dismissed democratically elected governments of Benazir Bhutto and Navaz Sharif that seriously undermined Khan’s effort to improve the economy. At the end, Khan was forced to resigned from the Presidency and a call for new elections were made. Appointment of Chiefs of Armed Forces Khan reportedly vetoed the appointment of Lieutenant-General Hamid Gull, a former Director-General of Directorate for Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), as Chief of Army Staff of Pakistan Army, appointing the moderately reformist General Asif Nawaz Khan Janjua instead. Khan’s presidency also saw the resignation of General Rahimuddin Khan from the post of Governor of Sindh, due to differences between the two after Khan started restricting Rahimuddin’s vast amount of legislative power. Khan appointed Air Chief Marshal Farooq Feroze Khan as Chief of Air Staff of Pakistan Air Force on the advice of Bhutto. Khan later promoted Vice-Admiral Yastur-ul-Haq Malik as 4-star Admiral, and appointed him as Chief of Naval Staff of Pakistan Navy. On Prime minister Benazir Bhutto’s recommendation and advice, Khan approved Admiral Iftikhar Ahmed Sirohey, former Chief of Naval Staff, as Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee. Dismissing the Governments of Bhutto and Sharif Khan’s presidency was also marked by his use of Eighth Amendment reserve powers to check the government. While the Prime Minister is the Head of Government, Khan, as President of Pakistan, was able to dismiss the governments of both prime ministers, Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif on charges of corruption, mismanagement, and nepotism, thereby triggering new elections, which the incumbent parties lost. The second dismissal of government exacerbated institutional and political opposition to Khan, leading to his resignation in 1993. Currency crisis During the early 1990s, Khan’s administration failed to arrest the 30 per cent fall in the value of the Pakistani Rupee from 21 to 30 to the US Dollar. Retirement and death Despite coming to an arrangement with the PPP government to be re-elected to the presidency after the 1993 elections, he was eventually dropped as a candidate in favour of Farooq Ahmed Khan Leghari. He subsequently retired from politics and avoided contact with the international and national media. He died on 27 October 2006 after a bout of pneumonia. He has to his credit the establishment of Rs 2.2 billion Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology in Swabi, Topi, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa.[13]
