=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Famous Birthdays: Today’s Celebrity Birthdays]
Today’s birthdays, plus profiles and rankings of creators and celebrities.
URL: https://www.famousbirthdays.com/

[FAMOUS Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster]
The meaning of FAMOUS is widely known. How to use famous in a sentence. Synonym Discussion of Famous.
URL: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/famous

[FAMOUS Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com]
FAMOUS definition: having a widespread reputation, usually of a favorable nature; renowned; celebrated. See examples of famous used in a sentence.
URL: https://www.dictionary.com/browse/famous

[FAMOUS | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary]
(Definition of famous from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press)
URL: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/famous

[FAMOUS definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary]
Someone or something that is famous is very well known. ...the country's most famous artist. 3 meanings: 1. known to or recognized by many people; renowned 2. informal excellent; splendid 3. archaic of ill repute.... Click for more definitions.
URL: https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/famous


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Famous Birthdays: Today’s Celebrity Birthdays] ---
Becky G, 29 Pop Singer Savannah LaBrant, 33 YouTube Star Jezelle Catherine, 24 TikTok Star Jon Bon Jovi, 64 Rock Singer Luke Combs, 36 Country Singer Dr. Seuss (1904-1991) Children's Author Chris Martin, 49 James Arthur, 38 Rebel Wilson, 46 Movie Actress Jazzy Skye, 16 Camila Cabello, 28


--- [FAMOUS Definition & Meaning - Merriam-Webster] ---
1 a : widely known a restaurant famous for its French cuisine b : honored for achievement a famous explorer 2 : excellent, first-rate famous weather for a walk famousness noun Love words? Need even more definitions? Merriam-Webster unabridged


--- [FAMOUS Definition & Meaning | Dictionary.com] ---
famous Americanadjective - having a widespread reputation, usually of a favorable nature; renowned; celebrated. a famous writer. - Synonyms: - illustrious, notable, famed - Informal. first-rate; excellent. The singer gave a famous performance. - unfavorably known; notorious. In my family, my uncle is famous for his bad jokes. adjective - known to or recognized by many people; renowned - informal excellent; splendid - archaic of ill repute Related Words Famous, celebrated, eminent, distinguished refer to someone or something widely and favorably known. Famous is the general word: a famous lighthouse. Celebrated originally referred to something commemorated, but now usually refers to someone or something widely known for conspicuous merit, services, etc.: a celebrated writer. Eminent implies high standing among one's contemporaries, especially in one's own profession or craft: an eminent physician. Distinguished adds to eminent the idea of honors conferred more or less publicly: a distinguished scientist. Other Word Forms - famously adverb - famousness noun - overfamous adjective - prefamous adjective - prefamously adverb - pseudofamous adjective - pseudofamously adverb - quasi-famous adjective - quasi-famously adverb - unfamous adjective Etymology Origin of famous First recorded in 1350–1400; Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin fāmōsus; fame, -ous Example Sentences Examples are provided to illustrate real-world usage of words in context. Any opinions expressed do not reflect the views of Dictionary.com. Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds' 1994 track Red Right Hand provided the famous theme tune for the TV series, and we can expect to hear a new version of that. From BBC Jackson’s rhetoric and actions underscored his characterization of politics, made during his famous “Keep Hope Alive” speech at the 1988 Democratic National Convention, as “a moral arena where people come together to find common ground.” From Salon Over the years, famous musicians, politicians and artists like Ray Charles, Ella Fitzgerald, Mark Bradford and former L.A. From Los Angeles Times It will also touch on the challenges they faced along the way, including a coup in the Comoros, being shot at, as well as Sir David's famous encounter with gorillas in Rwanda. From BBC The architect’s mischievous side comes through in countless sketches for his famous gargoyles, which achieve “both anatomical coherence and a sense of demonic vitality.” Definitions and idiom definitions from Dictionary.com Unabridged, based on the Random House Unabridged Dictionary, © Random House, Inc. 2023 Idioms from The American Heritage® Idioms Dictionary copyright © 2002, 2001, 1995 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company.


--- [FAMOUS | English meaning - Cambridge Dictionary] ---
famous adjective uk /ˈfeɪ.məs/ us /ˈfeɪ.məs/A1 famous name rich and famous famous victory become famous make sb famous made famous famous for Marie Curie is famous for her contribution to science. - famousShe went from poor and anonymous to rich and famous. - well knownShe's a well-known artist. - renownedThe area is renowned for its beauty. - world-famousThey stayed in a world-famous hotel. - celebratedHe's a celebrated writer of children's stories. - legendaryHe once met the legendary singer, Eartha Kitt. - Scotland is famous for its spectacular countryside. - I'm going to be a famous pop star when I'm older. - Who's the most famous person you've ever interviewed on TV? - The Beatles will always be the world's most famous pop group. - Billie Holiday was famous for singing the blues.


--- [FAMOUS definition and meaning | Collins English Dictionary] ---
British English pronunciation ! It seems that your browser is blocking this video content. To access it, add this site to the exceptions or modify your security settings, then refresh this page. American English pronunciation ! It seems that your browser is blocking this video content. To access it, add this site to the exceptions or modify your security settings, then refresh this page. You may also like COBUILD frequency band famous in British English adjective 1. known to or recognized by many people; renowned Collins English Dictionary. Copyright © HarperCollins Publishers Derived forms famousness (ˈfamousness) noun Word origin C14: from Latin fāmōsus; see fameCOBUILD frequency band famous in American English adjectiveOrigin: ME < L famosus < fama: see fame SYNONYMY NOTE: famous is applied to persons or things that have received wide public attention and are generally known and talked about; renowned suggests a being named publicly again and again as for some outstanding quality, achievement, etc.; celebrated is applied to persons or things that have received much public honor or praise; noted implies a being brought to the wide notice of the public for some particular quality; notorious, in current usage, suggests a being widely but unfavorably known or talked about; distinguished implies a being noted as superior in its class or of its kind; eminent more strongly stresses the conspicuous superiority of persons or things; illustrious suggests a reputation based on brilliance of achievement or splendidness of character OPPOSITES: obscure, unknown Webster’s New World College Dictionary, 5th Digital Edition. Copyright © 2025 HarperCollins Publishers. COBUILD frequency band famous in American English (ˈfeiməs) adjective SYNONYMS 1. famed, notable, illustrious. famous, celebrated, eminent, distinguished refer to someone or something widely and favorably known. famous is the general word: a famous lighthouse. celebrated originally referred to something commemorated, but now usually refers to someone or something widely known for conspicuous merit, services, etc.: a celebrated writer. eminent implies high standing among one’s contemporaries, esp. in one’s own profession or craft: an eminent physician. distinguished adds to eminent the idea of honors conferred more or less publicly: a distinguished scientist. ANTONYMS 1. unknown, obscure.1. a famous writer 2. informal first-rate; excellent The singer gave a famous performance 3. notorious (used pejoratively) Most material © 2005, 1997, 1991 by Penguin Random House LLC. Modified entries © 2019 by Penguin Random House LLC and HarperCollins Publishers Ltd Derived forms famously adverb famousness noun Examples of 'famous' in a sentence famous These examples have been automatically selected and may contain sensitive content that does not reflect the opinions or policies of Collins, or its parent company HarperCollins. We welcome feedback: report an example sentence to the Collins team. Read more… More idioms containing famous Trends of famous View usage for: Source: Google Books Ngram Viewer In other languages famous British English: famous /ˈfeɪməs/ ADJECTIVE Someone or something that is famous is very well known. ...the country's most famous artist. - American English: famous /ˈfeɪməs/ - Arabic: مَشْهُور - Brazilian Portuguese: famoso - Chinese: 著名的 - Croatian: slavan - Czech: proslulý - Danish: berømt - Dutch: beroemd - European Spanish: famoso - Finnish: kuuluisa - French: célèbre - German: berühmt - Greek: διάσημος - Italian: famoso - Japanese: 有名な - Korean: 유명한 - Norwegian: berømt - Polish: sławny - European Portuguese: famoso - Romanian: faimos - Russian: известный - Latin American Spanish: famoso - Swedish: känd - Thai: มีชื่อเสียง - Turkish: ünlü - Ukrainian: знаменитий - Vietnamese: nổi tiếng
