=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Tafa Balogun - Wikipedia]
Tafa Balogun ... Mustafa Adebayo Balogun (25 August 1947 – 4 August 2022), widely known as Kumawu, [citation needed] was a Nigerian police officer, 11th Inspector General of Police from March 2002, but was forced to retire because of widespread charges of corruption in January 2005.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tafa_Balogun

[The Story Behind Tafa Balogun’s Forced Retirement]
Mustafa Adebayo Balogun was the 11th Inspector General of the Nigeria Police Force. He joined the police force in May 1973 and officially became the IGP in March 2002. According to the reports gathered, Tafa Balogun, popularly known as "kumawu," was alleged to be corrupt and later sentenced to six months in jail by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission under Nuhu Ribadu, based on 70 ...
URL: https://africanhistory.online/history?id=31202313

[Ex-IGP, Tafa Balogun, dies at 75 – Tribune Online]
Aug 5, 2022 · Former Inspector General of Police, Mustafa Adebayo Balogun, is dead. . Tribune Online gathered that the police chief, popularly known as Tafa Balogun, died at Reddington Hospital in Lagos State.
URL: https://tribuneonlineng.com/ex-igp-tafa-balogun-dies-at-75/

[Where is Tafa Balogun? - Daily Trust]
Since he completed his jail term of six months at Kuje Prison, Abuja on February 9, 2006, Mustafa Adebayo Balogun, the former Inspector General of Police has been an elusive man.
URL: https://dailytrust.com/where-is-tafa-balogun/

[Ex-IG, Tafa Balogun, dies at 74 - Punch Newspapers]
A former Inspector-General of Police, Tarfa Balogun, is dead. Balogun’s publicist, Dipo Kehinde, confirmed his death to The PUNCH on Thursday. “I confirm that ex-IG Balogun died at about 8 ...
URL: https://punchng.com/ex-ig-tafa-balogun-dies-at-74/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Tafa Balogun - Wikipedia] ---
Mustafa Adebayo Balogun (25 August 1947 – 4 August 2022), widely known as Kumawu, was a Nigerian police officer, 11th Inspector General of Police from March 2002, but was forced to retire because of widespread charges of corruption in January 2005.


--- [The Story Behind Tafa Balogun’s Forced Retirement] ---
Mustafa Adebayo Balogun was the 11th Inspector General of the Nigeria Police Force. He joined the police force in May 1973 and officially became the IGP in March 2002. According to the reports gathered, Tafa Balogun, popularly known as “kumawu,” was alleged to be corrupt and later sentenced to six months in jail by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission under Nuhu Ribadu, based on 70 counts of charges. Tafa Balogun was forced to retire in January 2005 and he later died on August 4, 2022, at a hospital in Lekki, Lagos, after being diagnosed with a minor illness. In this piece, Naijabiography narrates the untold story of how Mustafa Balogun was forced to retire as the Inspector General of Police and how he was sentenced to prison. Young Balogun was born on August 25, 1947, at Ila-Orangun in Osun State, South-west Nigeria. He studied at the University of Lagos, earning a B.A. in political science there in 1972. In May 1973, he enlisted in the Nigeria Police Force. He earned a law degree from the University of Ibadan while serving as a police officer. After serving in a variety of roles across the nation, he rose to the position of principal staff officer for former Inspector-General of Police Muhammadu Gambo. He later held the positions of deputy commissioner of police in Edo State, commissioner of police in Delta State, commissioner of police in Rivers State, and commissioner of police in Abia State. When he was elevated to Inspector General of Police on March 6, 2002, he was appointed Assistant Inspector General of Police in A.I.G. Zone One, Kano. In March 2002, Balogun succeeded Musiliu Smith as IGP. During the national elections in April 2003, which were marred by allegations of police misconduct, he was in charge of overseeing police security generally. In a paper titled “Nigeria: Electoral Violence and National Security” that Balogun presented in August 2003, he called for changes like the use of national identity cards, widespread education, electoral law reforms, citizen participation in politics, good governance, and the creation of a constitutional court in Nigeria, as well as strategies to ensure the workability of these ideologies. Meanwhile, to ensure there were no disruptions during the Commonwealth of Nations conference, Balogun organized intensive security measures across Nigeria in December 2003. However, it didn’t go as planned for Balogun, as there was a riot, and reporters were severely injured with their facilities destroyed in 2004. As a result of this unfortunate incident, Balogun apologized and vowed that those involved would be held accountable. He assured the concerned parties in the same year that proper investigations would be carried out and the perpetrators of the riot would be brought to justice. Shortly after he made those promises, newspapers began to publish widespread accusations of corruption before the end of 2004, claiming that Balogun had embezzled public funds and accepted payments from officials and criminals. He was therefore forced to retire as a result in January 2005. Olusegun Obasanjo On April 4, 2005, Balogun was charged with receiving about N13 billion by the Federal High Court of Abuja for theft, money laundering, and other means. Thus, several investigations conducted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) under Nuhu Ribadu at the time reveal that the accusations against him were valid. Balogun was charged with 70 offenses by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, led by Nuhu Ribadu, between the years 2002 and 2004. However, Balogun agreed to a plea deal with the judge in return for giving back most of the goods and cash. Thus, Balogun was sentenced to six months in jail in Kuje Prison. Meanwhile, rumors had it around December 2005 that Balogun had died in custody as a result of the maltreatment he had received. Reports revealed that Balogun’s case had been a drama as several times, during his trials he had instigated lies to obstruct justice. Tafa Balogun completed his jail term, serving a portion of it in Abuja National Hospital, and was released on February 9th, 2006. The former President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Olusegun Obasanjo, was said to have been involved in the court case of Tafa Balogun. Reports gathered revealed that he created a safe landing for Balogun as well as orchestrated the fair treatment he received during the court hearing. However, according to a counter report released from the office of the president after the accusation, Obasanjo’s involvement was just to ensure that the charges levied against the accused were valid and to also confirm if he deserved to serve the jail term. Abdul Ahmed Ningi, the chairman of the House Committee on Police Affairs, requested information about the funds recovered from Balogun from the Inspector General of Police, Mike Okiro in November 2008 and again in February 2009, and he forwarded the request to Mrs. Farida Waziri, the head of the EFCC. However, the EFCC asserted that they lacked records detailing the precise properties taken from Balogun. Thus, it was discovered that some of the properties have been sold discreetly at discounted rates to specific people. Later, Balogun, Mike Okiro, and Mrs Farida Waziri were invited by the House of Representatives Committee on Police Affairs in April 2009 to discuss how the N16 billion purportedly recovered from Balogun disappeared. On August 4, 2022, Tafa Balogun died at a hospital in Lekki, Lagos, after being diagnosed with a minor illness.


--- [Ex-IGP, Tafa Balogun, dies at 75 – Tribune Online] ---
Ex-IGP, Tafa Balogun, dies at 75 YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE Top 10 Business Ideas In Nigeria You Can Start With 100,000 Naira In a country where economic deficit and unemployment have become the order of the day, conceptualizing a business idea in Nigeria and subsequently starting it can be likened to a goldmine which offers an opportunity for people to tap into a better livelihood. After Two Years, Daddy Freeze Apologises To Bishop Oyedepo Daddy Freeze whose real name is Ifedayo Olarinde has apologised to Bishop Oyedepo who is the presiding bishop and founder of Living Faith Church aka Winners Chapel…


--- [Where is Tafa Balogun? - Daily Trust] ---
Since he completed his jail term of six months at Kuje Prison, Abuja on February 9, 2006, Mustafa Adebayo Balogun, the former Inspector General of Police has been an elusive man. The last time he was seen at a public event was two years ago when he, alongside other ex-IGs, visited the Presidential villa on the occasion marking Nigeria’s 55th independence anniversary. Before that outing, Balogun had celebrated his wife Olufunke’s 60th birthday, three years ago at an event held at the family’s Lekki home. He was seen with top police men at that occasions. Balogun’s Travail On April 4, 2005, Tafa Balogun was arraigned at the Federal High Court, Abuja for stealing and laundering of over $100 million in his three years as Inspector General of Police from the Police treasury. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) under Nuhu Ribadu brought 70 charges against him, covering the period from 2002 to 2004 when he was the Inspector General of Police. He made a plea bargain with the court in exchange for returning much of the property and money. He was sentenced to six months in jail. Judge Binta Nyako said her sentence reflected that Balogun was a first offender and had shown remorse. He was directed by the court to pay N500, 000 on each of eight counts charges totaling N4 million. His trial was full of drama. One of such was when he collapsed on his seat on June 29, 2005, at the Abuja High Court. The former police boss, who pleaded guilty to eight of the 56 count-charges directly affecting him, was convicted and sentenced to six months in each of the charges, which is however to run concurrently. He was released on February 9, 2006 after serving his sentence, part of it at Abuja’s National Hospital. While reacting to the court judgement, the then EFFC chairman, Nuhu Ribadu said, “So, Tafa Balogun was my boss as the Inspector-General of Police, but he crossed the line. He did things that were wrong and was brought to our attention, and the law took its course.” In February 2009, the then Chairman of the House Committee on Police Affairs, Abdul Ahmed Ningi, asked Inspector General of Police Mike Okiro to provide details of the money recovered from Tafa Balogun, a request that he passed on to the then EFCC chair person, Mrs Farida Waziri. However, the EFCC stated that they did not have records of the exact properties recovered from Balogun. It was said that some of the houses had been secretly sold to certain individuals at give-away prices. In April 2009, the House of Representatives Committee on Police Affair invited Tafa Balogun, Mike Okiro and Mrs Farida Waziri to explain how the N16 billion allegedly recovered from Balogun went missing. His Career in the Police force Balogun became IGP in March 2002, replacing Musiliu Smith. He introduced proactive policing, and the eight-point crime control strategy on assumption of office. Six Deputy Inspectors General of Police were appointed to work alongside him. These are D.I.G “A”, headed by Mr. Sunday Ehindero, now a former Inspector General of Police, D.I.G ‘B’, C,D,E and F all representing the six geopolitical zones of the country. He christened the DIGs and himself the management team of the police hierarchy. His eight-point crime control were: Massive onslaught against armed robbery, gruesome murder/assassination and other crimes of violence, the methodology through which this will be achieved was christened “Operation Fire for Fire”, Fast and decisive crisis/conflict management, comprehensive training programme for qualitative policing, Anti-corruption crusade both within and outside the force, robust public relations necessary for our vision of “People’s Police”, community partnership in policing. The modern approach all over the world, inter service/agency cooperation at all levels and down the line as well as improved conditions of service and enhanced welfare package for all officers, inspectors and rank and file”. Between 2002 and 2004, the Nigeria Police arrested a total of 19,135 robbery suspects, 6,815 were killed, 12,006 fire arms and 472,020 ammunitions were recovered while 2,148 stolen vehicles were also recovered. During the period, 172 policemen were killed in operations, while 151 were injured. Apart from enhancing its operational capabilities, he also ensured that police welfare was adequately taken care of, this was through promotions welfare insurance scheme and training. In the area of promotion, over 170,000 policemen were promoted between 2002 and 2004, which is more than the promotions that had been carried out in the force from 1930 when the Nigeria Police force was founded. Also, over 721 policemen killed in operations were said to have enjoyed the welfare insurance scheme, which is meant to serve as succour for the next of kin of policemen killed in the line of duty. The insurance was said to be paid within 14 days of death. Tafa Balogun also did not take the training of officers and men of the force lightly as over 147,347 officers and men went on various courses locally between 2002 and 2004. On corruption of which himself was a victim, especially in the area of extortion, Tafa dismissed over 1,200 police officers for various acts bordering on official corruption in his three-year tenure. He introduced regular payment of salaries and allowances as well as community policing for which a number of officers went on courses abroad. Balogun attended the University of Lagos and graduated in 1972 with a B.A. in Political Science. He joined the Nigerian Police Force in May 1973. Born on August 8, 1947 at Ila-Orangun in Osun State, Tafa Balogun, was the 21st Inspector-General of Police. He was a member of cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Course 3. Having worked in various Police commands throughout the federation, and earning his promotions as at when due, Tafa, was at a time, the Principal Staff Officer (PSO) to former Inspector-General of Police, Muhammadu Gambo, Deputy Commission of Police Edo State, the pioneer Commissioner of Police in Delta State. He was also CP in Rivers and Abia states. Tafa, a fellow of the premier highest military institution in Nigeria, the National War College, later became the Assistant Inspector General of Police A.I.G Zone One, Kano, from where he was named the 21st IGP of Police on March 6, 2002. Balogun focusing on private business In 2005, shortly after a court judgment was pronounced, he told newsmen that he would bounce back. However, 12 years after, Tafa Balogun has remained silent and out of public view. For now, nobody knows the whereabouts of the ex-IG, excerpt some of his loyalists and a few friends who confided to Daily Trust that Balogun now faces his private business and lives in his Lekki home in Lagos. Others said he frequents his ancestral home in Ila Orangun regularly and sometimes travel abroad. Sources in police service said they don’t believe Balogun would venture into politics. “I don’t think he would want to go into politics because of what happened to him in the past despite of his achievements while in service. He is still bitter about it. Since he left the service, he hardly attends public function. He prefers to live a low profile life,“ one of the sources said. Another close associate said even if the former Inspector General goes into politics, he will make a lot of impacts because of his experience. “He is still loved in the Nigeria Police. He commands a lot respect right now. But he is into private business and he wouldn’t want anybody to talk about politics around him because he’s still bitter about his incarceration,” he said. UPDATE NEWS: Nigerians can now invest ₦2.5 million on premium domains and profit about ₦17-₦25 million. All earnings paid in US Dollars. Rather than wonder, click here to find out how it works.


--- [Ex-IG, Tafa Balogun, dies at 74 - Punch Newspapers] ---
A former Inspector-General of Police, Tarfa Balogun, is dead. Balogun’s publicist, Dipo Kehinde, confirmed his death to The PUNCH on Thursday. “I confirm that ex-IG Balogun died at about 8.30pm today (Thursday) at Reddington Hospital, Lekki,” Kehinde said in a telephone interview. Balogun, 74, was appointed the IG in March 2002 and was forced to retire because of widespread charges of corruption in January 2005. On April 4, 2005, Balogun was arraigned at the Federal High Court, Abuja on charges involving about N13bn obtained through money laundering, theft and other sources. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission under Nuhu Ribadu brought 70 charges against Balogun, covering the period from 2002 to 2004. He made a plea bargain with the court in exchange for returning much of the property and money. He was sentenced to six months in jail. He was released on February 9, 2006 after serving his sentence, part of it in Abuja National Hospital.
