=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab - Wikipedia]
On 26 December 2009, Abdulmutallab appeared in front of Judge Paul D. Borman of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan in Detroit and was formally charged with attempting to blow up and placing a destructive device on an American civil aircraft.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umar_Farouk_Abdulmutallab

['Underwear bomber,' Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, to be sentenced today in ...]
Feb 16, 2012 · The young Nigerian dubbed the "underwear bomber" after he tried to blow up a packed U.S.-bound airliner on Christmas Day in 2009 will be sentenced at a hearing here Thursday.
URL: https://nationalpost.com/news/underwear-bomber-to-be-sentenced-today-in-detroit

[Underwear bomber Abdulmutallab sentenced to life - BBC News]
Feb 16, 2012 · A Nigerian man accused of trying to bomb a US-bound flight on Christmas Day 2009 has been sentenced to life in prison without parole. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 25, pleaded guilty to attempting to ...
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-17065130

[U.S. charges Nigerian in bomb bid]
Dec 27, 2009 — The government said: “Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 23, a Nigerian national, boarded Northwest Flight 253 in Amsterdam, Netherlands... and had a ...
URL: https://www.politico.com/story/2009/12/us-charges-nigerian-in-bomb-bid-030973

[Would-Be Plane Bomber Sentenced to Life - The New York Times]
Feb 17, 2012 · Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab said he was working on behalf of Al Qaeda when he tried to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner with explosives concealed in his underwear in 2009.
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/17/us/would-be-plane-bomber-sentenced-to-life.html


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab - Wikipedia] ---
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab  (Arabic: عمر فاروق عبد المطلب; also known as Umar Abdul Mutallab and  Omar Farooq al-Nigeri; born 22 December 1986) popularly referred to as the "Underwear Bomber" or "Christmas Bomber", is a Nigerian terrorist who attempted to detonate plastic explosives hidden in his underwear while on board Northwest Airlines Flight 253, en route from Amsterdam to Detroit, Michigan, U.S. on 25 December 2009.
Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) claimed to have organised the attack with Abdulmutallab; they said they supplied him with the bomb and trained him. Connections to al-Qaeda and Anwar al-Awlaki have been found, although the latter denied ordering the bombing.
Abdulmutallab was convicted in a U.S. federal court of eight federal criminal counts, including attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction and attempted murder of 289 people. On 16 February 2012, he was sentenced to 4 life terms plus 50 years without parole. He is incarcerated at ADX Florence, the supermax federal prison in Colorado.




--- ['Underwear bomber,' Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, to be sentenced today in ...] ---
Unrepentant 'underwear bomber' sentenced to life in jail by U.S. judge The young Nigerian dubbed the "underwear bomber" after he tried to blow up a packed U.S.-bound airliner on Christmas Day in 2009 will be sentenced at a hearing here Thursday. By Mira Oberman DETROIT, Michigan — Unrepentant to the last, the Nigerian “underwear bomber” who tried to blow up a packed airliner on Christmas Day 2009 was sentenced to life in prison by a U.S. judge on Thursday. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 25, declared he was “proud to kill in the name of God” before being handed a mandatory life sentence for attempting to murder 289 people on board Detroit-bound Northwest Airlines Flight 253. The failed suicide bomber, wearing a white skull cap and a long, white T-shirt at the sentencing hearing in Detroit, said he was carrying out the work of God against the “oppressors” of Muslims. “The mujahadeen are proud to kill in the name of God and that is exactly what God told us to do in the Qur’an,” said the Nigerian, who opted to represent himself in court. [np-related] “Today is a day of victory and God is great.” Abdulmutallab showed no emotion as Judge Nancy Edmunds handed down the maximum sentences for each count. “The defendant has stated and it is clear that he has enormous motivation to carry out another terrorist attack,” Edmunds said. “This court has no ability to control the defendant’s motivation, which does appear to be unchanged, however I can control the defendant’s opportunity to carry out those actions.” U.S. prosecutor Cathleen Corken told the court ahead of sentencing that life in prison was appropriate in the case. Corken said Abdulmutallab “boarded Flight 253 with a cold-blooded calculated plan to murder everyone on it” and would have carried it out if the bomb had detonated. The botched attack, which prosecutors say was a plot by slain Al-Qaeda preacher Anwar al-Awlaqi, sparked global alarm and caused the United States to tighten up both its no-fly lists and airport screening systems. The reputation of the U.S. intelligence services also took a hit because Abdulmutallab’s father, a prominent Nigerian banker, had warned the CIA about his son’s growing radicalization. Despite stringent security measures at airports in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks, Abdulmutallab managed to smuggle 76 grams of the explosive Pentaerythritol tetranitrate on board the flight from Amsterdam. Luckily, the bomb hidden in his underwear failed to properly detonate and instead simply caused a fire as the plane began its descent to Detroit. Passengers and crew members were able to restrain Abdulmutallab and extinguish the blaze, allowing pilots to safely land the plane. Abdulmutallab’s court-appointed standby counsel filed a motion Monday seeking a lesser sentence with the argument that life in prison is unwarranted because nobody else was actually injured. But prosecutors argued that the judge must send a strong message to an unrepentant “terrorist” and give him the maximum allowable sentence on all eight counts. Abdulmutallab, who fired his lawyers and chose to represent himself in the high-profile case, insisted in pleading guilty that his actions were righteous and that the true crime was U.S. foreign policy. “I am guilty of this count in U.S. law but not in the Qur’an,” he said in a six-minute speech on the second day of his October trial. Thursday’s sentencing hearing also gave several of his intended victims the opportunity to weigh in. “I’ve never been that scared in my life and I hope never to be scared like that again,” said Lori Haskell, one of those on the flight. “For weeks after the incident I thought I was in a state of shock…. I am thankful I’m still alive but what the defendant did caused lifetime harm to me and everyone else on that plane.” The extent of Awlaqi’s involvement emerged in a prosecution memo filed Friday arguing for a stiff sentence. Abdulmutallab told investigators that he had been following Awlaqi online for years and traveled to Yemen in August 2009 to seek out the radical U.S.-born cleric. He was driven through the desert to Awlaqi’s home after tracking down his cell phone number through visits to mosques and then writing to him about his desire to “become involved in jihad,” the memo said. Abdulmutallab stayed with Awlaqi for three days and was then taken to a bomb-maker after he was accepted for the mission. He then spent two weeks at a training camp where he “received instruction in weapons and indoctrination in jihad” and then Awlaqi hired a “professional film crew” to shoot Abdulmutallab’s five-minute martyrdom video. Agence France-Presse Our website is the place for the latest breaking news, exclusive scoops, longreads and provocative commentary. Please bookmark nationalpost.com and sign up for our newsletters here.


--- [Underwear bomber Abdulmutallab sentenced to life - BBC News] ---
A Nigerian man accused of trying to bomb a US-bound flight on Christmas Day 2009 has been sentenced to life in prison without parole. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 25, pleaded guilty to attempting to blow up a commercial plane as a would-be suicide mission for al-Qaeda. His family quickly called on the US government to review the sentence. Abdulmutallab was badly burned when a bomb sewn into his underwear failed to detonate fully, prosecutors said. Almost 300 people were on the flight from Amsterdam to Detroit. Some of the passengers from the flight were in the courtroom as Federal Judge Nancy Edmunds announced the sentence. "This was an act of terrorism that cannot be quibbled with," Judge Edmunds said, as she imposed the maximum sentence. The son of a Nigerian banker and a former engineering student at University College London, Abdulmutallab faced eight counts against him, including terrorism and attempted murder. Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), a militant group based in Yemen, said it was behind the attempted attack. Bolder, stronger In statement to the BBC, the family of Abdulmutallab said they were "grateful to God that the unfortunate incident of that date did not result in any injury or death". "We strongly appeal to the American justice department to review the life sentence," they said. "We also appeal to the Federal Republic of Nigeria to continue with their support and engage with the American government to ensure that a review is made." Ahead of the sentencing, assistant defence lawyer Anthony Chambers argued that a life sentence for Abdulmutallab would be unconstitutional, since no other passengers were hurt. Sentencing guidelines directed the judge to impose a mandatory life sentence, but Mr Chambers appealed for a lighter term. "Not one passenger lost his or her life. Not one passenger suffered life-threatening injuries," he said. Prosecutors said a life sentence was warranted because an attempted terror attack heightens public fear and burdens airports with expensive and time-consuming security procedures. As part of the sentencing hearing, four passengers and a crew member aboard Flight 253 made statements, telling the judge the event had forever changed their lives. A video from the FBI showing the power of the explosive material found in Abdulmutallab's underwear was also shown at the hearing. As the video played Abdulmutallab twice said loudly "Allahu akbar" - Arabic for "God is great". Abdulmutallab himself made a brief statement. During the short trial, he had fired his lawyer and attempted to represent himself. "Mujahideen are proud to kill in the name of God," he said in court. "And that is exactly what God told us to do in the Koran... Today is a day of victory." "In quick response to some of the things that have been said, I say my life and the lives of Muslims have also changed due to the attacks on innocent civilians," he added. Failed to detonate On the second day of his trial, in October, Abdulmutallab unexpectedly declared that he would plead guilty to all charges. The bomb was a "blessed weapon to save the lives of innocent Muslims", he told the court. "The US should be warned that if they continue to kill and support those who kill innocent Muslims, then the US should await a great calamity... or God will strike them directly," he added. Investigators said Abdulmutallab admitted he was working for AQAP, and had been inspired by and had met Anwar al-Awlaki, a radical cleric who was killed in 2011 by a US drone strike in Yemen. Abdulmutallab received the bomb, as well as training, from AQAP before travelling from Nigeria to Amsterdam. There he boarded Northwest Airlines Flight 253 to Detroit, which was carrying 279 passengers and 11 crew members. The bomb was not picked up in security checks at airports in Lagos and Amsterdam. On board, the bomb failed to detonate completely and passengers had to put out the fire. Abdulmutallab's father, Alhaji Umaru Mutallab, an influential banker who is well connected in Nigerian politics, said he had approached the US embassy officials and Nigerian authorities in 2009 to warn them about his son. Abdulmutallab was already on a US watch list, but not a no-fly list. - Published12 October 2011 - Published12 October 2011 - Published4 October 2011 - Published7 February 2011


--- [U.S. charges Nigerian in bomb bid] ---
U.S. charges Nigerian in bomb bid Passenger detained on an airplane in Detroit says he was acting on behalf of Al Qaeda. The United States charged a 23-year-old Nigerian man Saturday with attempting to destroy a Northwest Airlines aircraft on Christmas Day during its final approach to Detroit Metropolitan Airport. The criminal complaint said Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab attempted to detonate a device containing a “high-explosive” chemical, PETN, which has been used in several past terror plots, including so-called “shoe bomber” Richard Reid’s December 2001 bid to blow up a Paris-to-Miami flight. “FBI agents recovered what appear to be the remnants of the syringe from the vicinity of Abdulmutallab’s seat, believed to have been part of the device,” the complaint said. The government said: “Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, 23, a Nigerian national, boarded Northwest Flight 253 in Amsterdam, Netherlands... and had a device attached to his body. As the flight was approaching Detroit Metropolitan Airport, Abdulmutallab set off the device, which resulted in a fire and what appears to have been an explosion. Abdulmutallab was then subdued and restrained by the passengers and flight crew. The airplane landed shortly thereafter, and he was taken into custody by Customs and Border Patrol officers.” U.S. officials said Abdulmutallab had told them that he was acting on behalf of al Qaeda, and that he had acquired the device in Yemen. It’s not yet clear if Abdulmutallab, who originally boarded in Nigeria before stopping in Amsterdam on the way to Detroit, was an agent of al Qaeda, an outsider who identified with the group, or something in between. Federal authorities told ABC late Saturday afternoon that the plot was hatched by al Qaeda in Yemen, and that a top member of the group sewed the explosives into the suspect’s underwear. Because Abdulmutallab is being detained and treated for his burns at the hospital at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, his preliminary hearing Saturday afternoon was held in a small conference room there instead of at the federal courthouse. Detroit station WXYZ reported that one of Abdulmutallab’s hands was handcuffed to a wheelchair, and that he was dressed in a green hospital gown and a blanket. The other hand was bandaged, but his face appeared to be unharmed. Asked by a pool reporter how he felt, he said, “I’m doing better.” Reporter Peggy Agar said he was responsive, but quiet, and that his demeanor was “pleasant.’ When Judge Paul D. Borman asked him if he understood that the charges — willful attempt to destroy an aircraft, and placing a destructive device on an aircraft — could lead to a sentence of as long as 20 years, Abdulmutallab replied, “Yes, I do.” Abdulmutallab said he didn’t have funds for attorney, and Borman said the court would assign him one. The arrest is a reminder “that we must remain vigilant in the fight against terrorism at all times,” Attorney General Eric Holder said on Saturday, adding that “we will use all measures available to our government to ensure that anyone responsible for this attempted attack is brought to justice.” “The White House believes this was an attempted act of terrorism,” an official said Friday of the incident, which early reports had said was a passenger setting off firecrackers after the plane had landed. President Obama has been monitoring the situation from his holiday vacation in Hawaii, and members of Congress from both parties issued calls and announced plans for investigations. “It was a sophisticated device,” Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.), the ranking member of the House Homeland Security Committee, said on CNN Friday night in the midst of a round of media appearances after being briefed by theWhite House. “We may have been lucky, he have been inept,” he added. “We may have dodged a bullet on this one.” While the suspect was “not designated on a no-fly list, he was in a database for having Al Qaeda connections in Nigeria” that came up immediately once his name was known, King said. “None of the terrorist connections or none of the terrorist allegations he had were on aviation,” King said, adding: “I’m not trying to be a Monday morning quarterback here… but let’s see what was missed.” King said that Congress would have to investigate and would need access to the government file detailing Abdulmutallab’s terror connections to find out why he had been allowed to board and how he passed the device through security in Nigeria and in Amsterdam. A White House official said Saturday that Obama has asked people in the intelligence community to continue to take hard looks and challenge the assumptions they make about the information used to generate various terror watch lists, in what could become a formal review of the process. The official pointed out that the list the suspect was on had 400,000 people on it, and further downplayed any suggestion of major missed signs by noting that after any such event there are always people who comb through information with the benefit of hindsight and find some areas for improvement. The Nigerian daily This Day reported Saturday that the suspect’s father, a former head of Nigeria’s First Bank PLC, recently grew “uncomfortable with the boy’s extreme religious views and had six months ago reported his activities to United States’ Embassy, Abuja and Nigerian security agencies.” The father, Alhaji Umaru Mutallab, told the Associated Press Saturday that his son, who reportedly been an engineering student at the University College of London, had left Nigeria to travel abroad, and that “I believe he might have been to Yemen.” In a statement Saturday evening, Sen. Jon Lieberman (I-Conn.) said that he was was “troubled by several aspects of this case, including how the suspect escaped the attention of the State Department and law enforcers when his father apparently reported concerns about his son’s extremist behavior to the U.S. embassy in Lagos, how the suspect managed to retain a U.S. visa after such complaints, and why he was not recognized as someone who reportedly was named in the terrorist database.” Rep. Bennie G. Thompson (D-Miss.), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, issued a statement Saturday saying that “The reported act of terrorism – whether directly related to al Qaeda or not – and the response to it will be the focus of an oversight hearing next month.” Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.), former head of the intelligence committee, said Friday that his committee will hold hearings in January to “look into this incident and related security matters.” Rep. Pete Hoekstra (R-Mich.), a member of the House Intelligence Committee, pointed a finger at the Obama administration, telling the Detroit Free Press Friday night that the attempted attack was “not surprising.” “People have got to start connecting the dots here, and maybe this is the thing that will connect the dots for the Obama administration,” Hoekstra said. White House spokesman Bill Burton said Friday that Obama, on vacation in Hawaii, was informed of the incident about three hours after the plane landed. Obama then held a conference call with Homeland Security and counter-terror adviser John Brennan and NSC chief of staff Denis McDonough. Burton said that in a subsequent call, Obama “instructed that all appropriate measures be taken to increase security for air travel.” Obama has been updated several times about the situation via secure phone by McDonough, who is with the president in Hawaii, and Brennan, a White House official said on Saturday, adding he also received a briefing document from the Situation Room. Burton said that there will be no press briefings in Honolulu on Saturday, and not to expect a presidential comment on the thwarted attack, which came just hours after the Afghan Taliban released a video of Private First Class Bowe Bergdahl, the only known American serviceman in captivity. It also came just a day after a U.S.-aided air strike by Yemeni forces killed at least 30 suspected militants, reportedly including two al Qaeda leaders there and possibly U.S.-born cleric Anwar al-Awlaki, who was a spiritual adviser to Ft. Hood shooter Major Nidal Malik Hasan. The instability in Yemen has emerged as the key obstacle to President Obama’s pledge to close the U.S. prison at Guantanamo Bay, where roughly half of the remaining detainees are Yemenis, who the administration is reluctant to repatriate. The U.S. military aid to Yemen comes as the weak central government tries to stop separate insurgencies in the north and the south of the nation, Osama Bin Laden’s ancestral homeland, which have at times provided haven to al Qaeda members. Though Abdulmutallab allegedly ttempted to use the device after the plane was over the U.S., the attempt also raised immediate concerns about a new attempt to revive a 2006 plot to carry out multiple suicide bombings on trans-Atlantic flights, with the intention of sinking all of the planes into the ocean to frustrate investigators. Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), the ranking member of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, noted on Saturday morning that the attack came “eight years after Richard Reid attempted to blow up an airliner with explosives hidden in his shoe” during a flight from Paris to Miami. Collins, who said she expects to be briefed soon by the Department of Homeland Security, added that Friday’s attempted attack “raises some serious questions, such as how was this person able to bring an explosive substance aboard a commercial airliner? And what is the Transportation Security Administration doing to address this type of threat?” DHS issued a statement earlier Friday saying that Secretary Janet Napolitano is “closely monitoring the situation,” and that “passengers may notice additional screening measures.” So far, the terror alert level for flights has remained unchanged, at “orange.” Josh Gerstein and Mike Allen contributed to this report.


--- [Would-Be Plane Bomber Sentenced to Life - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Would-Be Plane Bomber Is Sentenced to Life in Prison DETROIT — The Nigerian man who tried to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner with explosives concealed in his underwear on Christmas Day in 2009 was sentenced Thursday to life in prison by a federal judge who said his crime and subsequent lack of remorse demanded the maximum possible punishment. The man, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who pleaded guilty in October and admitted to working on behalf of Al Qaeda, shouted, “Allahu akbar,” or “God is great,” five times during the sentencing hearing. He asserted that Muslims were “proud to kill in the name of God, and that is what God told us to do in the Koran.” Five people on the flight, including a flight attendant who helped put out a midair fire that Mr. Abdulmutallab started with his explosives, spoke during the hearing about the nightmares and fear they had experienced since the episode. Judge Nancy G. Edmunds of Federal District Court ordered Mr. Abdulmutallab to serve the maximum sentence of four consecutive life sentences, plus an additional 50 years, on the charges, which included conspiracy to commit an act of terrorism and attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction. Judge Edmunds denied a motion by Mr. Abdulmutallab, who represented himself during much of the case, with the assistance of a standby lawyer, to declare life imprisonment as cruel and unusual punishment because his act did not kill or seriously injure anyone. “Defendant has never expressed doubt or regret or remorse,” she said. “This court can’t control defendant’s motivations, which appear to be unchanged, but it can control defendant’s opportunity to act on those intentions.” Prosecutors showed a video demonstrating the type of explosion that could have occurred on Northwest Airlines Flight 253, which originated in Amsterdam, but that for a technical problem resulted only in Mr. Abdulmutallab’s setting himself and a wall of the plane on fire. Related Content Advertisement
