=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[R. C. Harvey - Wikipedia]
Robert C. Harvey (May 31, 1937 - July 7, 2022) was an American author, critic and cartoonist. He wrote a number of books on the history and theory of cartooning, with special focus on the comic strip.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R._C._Harvey

[Mike Lynch Cartoons: R.C. Harvey 1937 - 2022]
Jul 8, 2022 · Cartoonist and comics historian R.C. “Bob” Harvey has passed away. Scant details as of now. Born 1937. Adopted a rabbit as his alter ego due to his deep affection Mary Chase’s “Harvey.” Left a navy career to pursue teaching high school English, and cartoon on the side (mostly for men’s magazines). Received a Master’s from NYU and a PhD from Illinois University. He married wife ...
URL: https://mikelynchcartoons.blogspot.com/2022/07/rc-harvey-1937-2022.html

[Stripper's Guide: Ink-Slinger Profiles by Alex Jay: R.C. Harvey]
Jul 22, 2022 · Friday, July 22, 2022 Ink-Slinger Profiles by Alex Jay: R.C. Harvey Robert Charles Harvey was born on May 31, 1937, in Fargo, North Dakota, according to Contemporary Authors, Volume 151 (1996). Harvey was the first-born child of Charles Ernest Harvey and Ellen Elizabeth Morrill who married on November 19, 1932 in Fargo.
URL: https://strippersguide.blogspot.com/2022/07/ink-slinger-profiles-by-alex-jay-rc.html

[Robert C. Harvey, Comics Chronicler, Critic, Cartoonist and Raconteur ...]
Jul 14, 2022 — ... wife Linda raised their twin daughters, Julia and Katharine. Earning his PhD in English from the University of Illinois after what he often ...
URL: https://www.tcj.com/robert-c-harvey-comics-chronicler-critic-cartoonist-and-raconteur-dies-at-85/

[The Real-Life Couples of the 'Suits' Cast! Who's Dating Whom?]
Mar 3, 2025 · The ‘Suits’ cast has some surprising real-life romances! From Meghan Markle to Patrick J. Adams, see who they’re dating.
URL: https://www.firstforwomen.com/entertainment/movies-shows/suits-cast-real-life-couples-see-who-theyre-in-love-with/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [R. C. Harvey - Wikipedia] ---
Robert C. Harvey (May 31, 1937 – July 7, 2022) was an American author, critic and cartoonist. He wrote a number of books on the history and theory of cartooning, with special focus on the comic strip. He also worked as a freelance cartoonist.


--- [Mike Lynch Cartoons: R.C. Harvey 1937 - 2022] ---
Cartoonist and comics historian R.C. “Bob” Harvey has passed away. Scant details as of now. Born 1937. Adopted a rabbit as his alter ego due to his deep affection Mary Chase’s “Harvey.” Left a navy career to pursue teaching high school English, and cartoon on the side (mostly for men’s magazines). Received a Master’s from NYU and a PhD from Illinois University. He married wife Linda nee Kubicek in 1971. Four years later they welcomed twin daughters, Julia (Jill) and Katherine (Kit). A longtime writer of cartoon and comics history. His site (as well as his long-running column for The Comics Journal) was called "rants and Raves." Perhaps best known for his mammoth Milt Caniff biography. Friendly, knowledgeable and opinionated. He was the go-to guy for comics history and will be missed by fan and pro alike.


--- [Stripper's Guide: Ink-Slinger Profiles by Alex Jay: R.C. Harvey] ---
Friday, July 22, 2022 Ink-Slinger Profiles by Alex Jay: R.C. Harvey Robert Charles Harvey was born on May 31, 1937, in Fargo, North Dakota, according to Contemporary Authors, Volume 151 (1996). Harvey was the first-born child of Charles Ernest Harvey and Ellen Elizabeth Morrill who married on November 19, 1932 in Fargo. A 1936 naturalization petition said Harvey’s father was born in Mansfield, England. He arrived in New York City on March 16, 1926. Census records show Harvey’s mother was Canadian. The 1940 U.S. Federal Census recorded Harvey and his parents in Fargo at 1005 1st Street North. Harvey’s father was an assistant credit manager at an oil company. On October 16, 1940, Harvey’s father signed his World War II draft card. His employer was the Standard Oil Company. The 1945 Fargo city directory had the same address. At some point the Harvey family moved to Edgewater, Colorado. The 1950 census said Harvey, his parents and four-year-old sister, Margaret, resided at 2437 Caton. The Denver Post (Colorado), March 23, 1953, profiled Harvey. Boy Invents New Comic Strip HeroEdgewater has its own cartoonist. He’s Robert Charles Harvey, 15, of 2401 Lamar street, who has developed his own comic strip character, “Smokey Smith.”Bob caught the attention of the managing editor of The Denver Post when the youngster bombarded the newspaper office with requests for originals from his favorite comic strip authors-artists. Each letter carries a colored sketch of “Smokey.”Bob, a near-straight “A” sophomore at Edgewater high school, has a “studio” (a corner of his bedroom) decorated with original drawings from such big leaguers as Milton Caniff (Steve Canyon), George mcManus (Bringing Up Father) and V.T. Hamlin (Allie Oop). His bureau drawers are bulging with files of clips—gleanings for comic pages and books.Wants Own StripYoung Harvey’s dream is to “someday have a strip of my own.” His idol at the moment is Caniff.Bob began art work early. In first grade he won a poster contest.Bob uses colored inks, which he applies with brushes, using pens for straight black line work.“I find brush for black drawing is too slow,” he said.Bob, an Eagle Scout in troop No. 63 at Edgewater, is financing his trip next summer to the Boy Scout jamboree at Newport, Calif., with free lance art work around Edgewater and Lakewood. After high school he plans to attend the University of Colorado and, later, perhaps an art school.Bob’s father, Charles E. Harvey, assistant credit manager of the Denver office of the Standard Oil company, is scoutmaster of his son’s troop. Harvey was in the Denver Post, June 15, 1955. Edgewater Boy Gets CU AwardRobert C. Harvey, 17, son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Harvey of 2401 Lamar St., Edgewater, has been awarded a scholarship to the University of Colorado by the U.C. Denver Area Alumni Assn., officials announced Wednesday.Harvey, who will major in journalism, was top student and valedictorian of this year’s graduating class at Edgewater high school. He was graduated with a straight “A” average for four years.Editor of the student newspaper during his senior year, he has been active on the student council and yearbook staff. He is an Eagle Scout and president of the youth group at All Saints Episcopal Church. Harvey graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree cum laude in 1959. 1959 Coloradan yearbook entry: Harvey, Robert Charles; Denver, Colo.; Arts and Sciences—Coloradan, layout editor; Colorado Daily, city editor, columnist; COGS, vice-president; CU Days, publicity chairman; Hue and Cry Magazine, cartoonist, editor; IFC; Sigma Delta Chi, president; Theta Xi, president; 1959 Pacesetter. Harvey contributed his profile to The Comics Journal. … He began cartooning at about the age of seven. He blamed his father: “A talented artist himself, my father used to draw Disney characters for me. Once I asked him to copy a cartoon character I saw in a comic book, and he, being busy at that moment, said: ‘Draw it yourself.' And so I did. And have been drawing by myself ever since, for over 77 years at the last accounting.”Harv was the school cartoonist in high school and the campus cartoonist in college. In the Navy, he was the All-Navy Cartoonist one year, and the next, he was at sea, drawing cartoons in the monthly magazine of the USS Saratoga, a giant aircraft carrier, where he was otherwise occupied as disbursing officer. … The Register of Commissioned and Warrant Officers of the United States Naval and Reserve, July 1, 1967, had Harvey’s service from March 3, 1960 to October 1, 1964. Harvey was a lieutenant. Harvey was an English teacher at Wyandotte High School, in Kansas City, Kansas, from 1964 to 1969. He obtained his Master of Arts degree at New York University in 1968. Ten years later Harvey earned his Ph.D. at the University of Illinois, Champaign. A marriage announcement appeared in the Globe-Gazette (Mason City, Iowa), January 19, 1971. To wed Jan. 31Riceville—Jan. 31 is the date chosen by Miss Linda Kubicek, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Carl Kubicek of Riceville, and Robert Harvey, son of Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Harvey of Denver, Colo. The ceremony will be in the Wesley Methodist Church at Urbana, Ill. The bride and her fiancé are employed by the National Council of Teachers of English ERIC [Educational Resources Information Center] Project at Champaign, Ill. They had twin daughters, Julia and Katherine. After five years of teaching, “Harvey joined the headquarters staff of the National Council of Teachers of English, where he served as convention manager for nearly 30 years.” Harvey was a member of the National Council of Teachers of English, Association of American Editorial Cartoonists, National Cartoonists Society, Southern California Cartoonists Society, and Comic Art Professional Society. Harvey tried his hand at drawing gag cartoons for men’s magazines. Harvey’s first comics column began in the fall of 1973 for the weekly Menomonee Falls Gazette. Two years later, his Comicopia column debuted in number 130 of the Rocket’s Blast-ComiCollector. For RB-CC, he created the superhero, Zero Hero. In March 1980, Harvey was a contributor to The Comics Journal starting in issue number 54 and continued regularly for over 40 years. Harvey was an associate editor of the magazine, Inks: Cartoon and Comic Art Studies. Harvey’s books include The Art of the Funnies: An Aesthetic History (1994); The Art of the Comic Book: An Aesthetic History (1996); Children of the Yellow Kid: The Evolution of the American Comic Strip (1998); The Genius of Winsor McCay (1998); A Gallery of Rogues: Cartoonists’ Self-caricatures (1998); Accidental Ambassador Gordo: The Comic Strip Art of Gus Arriola (2000); Milton Caniff: Conversations (2002); The Life and Art of Murphy Anderson (2003); Meanwhile: A Biography of Milton Caniff, Creator of Terry and the Pirates and Steve Canyon (2007); and Insider Histories of Cartooning: Rediscovering Forgotten Famous Comics and Their Creators (2014). Harvey passed away on July 7, 2022. Further Reading R.C. Harvey, The Whole Sordid Story The Comics Journal, Robert C. Harvey, Comics Chronicler, Critic, Cartoonist and Raconteur Dies at 85 Comic Book Resources, Comic Historian and Cartoonist RC Harvey Dies at 85 The Daily Cartoonist, Robert C. Harvey—RIP Labels: Ink-Slinger Profiles


--- [Robert C. Harvey, Comics Chronicler, Critic, Cartoonist and Raconteur ...] ---
Robert C. Harvey, a longtime contributor to The Comics Journal and one of the industry’s most enduring, prodigious and personably provocative commentators on comics culture, passed away July 7 at the age of 85 due to complications from a fall. For more than five decades, “Happy Harv” helped to determine, and sometimes define, the myriad discourse surrounding comics professionals, fans, teachers and scholars. His contributions include seminal works of history and criticism; a number of landmark interviews and biographies of leading creators including Milton Caniff, Charles Schulz, Bill Watterson and Aaron McGruder; and a wide variety of edited collections, archival compilations and curated exhibits. All told, Harvey leaves behind an unequalled oeuvre of thousands of separately published articles, blog posts, columns, prefaces, commentaries and small-press pamphlets spanning every facet of cartooning and comic books. Aside from his voluminous writings, those who were fortunate to know him personally are especially saddened by the loss of his uniquely witty repartee, enthusiastic opinions on art and culture, and his eternally perspicacious perspectives on the comics multiverse. A Colorado native and naval veteran who served as a disbursing officer on the USS Saratoga, Harvey always credited his inventive father for inspiring his interests in cartooning, language and learning. “Drawing funny” from an early age, Harvey was a contributing artist and “gag man” to his high school, university and Navy periodicals, as well as a purveyor of single panel gags for the National Council for Teachers of English headquartered in Champaign, Illinois, where he and his wife Linda raised their twin daughters, Julia and Katharine. Earning his PhD in English from the University of Illinois after what he often described as a particularly well-sublimated defense on psychoanalysis in literature, Harvey worked as the lead NCTE convention manager for decades. His efforts there facilitated positive professional discourse, fresh pedagogy and essential networking opportunities for thousands of language and writing teachers over the years, while also furthering Bob’s intimate knowledge of premiere martini haunts in every major city across the nation. For those lucky enough to hear them, Bob’s farce-filled tales of getting wined and dined as NCTE’s persnickety conference representative were almost as fun and frenzied as his comics-themed yarns. Almost. Harvey was widely respected for his astute, often blustery blend of journalism, criticism, history and theory relating to just about every idiom of comics language. His central proposition that comics are defined by their unique properties of verbal-visual blending was widely considered and debated. Like other essential pioneers of comics studies, Harvey produced historical recuperations of key creators and influential comic strips alongside landmark works by Bill Blackbeard, Denis Gifford and Ron Goulart. He also promoted the serious archival acquisition and scholarly curation of comics and other multimodal narrative forms with longtime associates Lucy Sheldon Caswell, Randy Scott and Karen Green. Like John Lent, Donald Ault and M. Thomas Inge, Harvey further encouraged the first serious academic inquiry into comics studies and helped to elevate not only the art form, but also the critical discourse that debated its merits. His friends, colleagues and collaborators number in the thousands and include a veritable who’s who of leading scholars, collectors and advocates like Brian Walker, Maggie Thompson, Trina Robbins and Craig Yoe. A seasoned correspondent at the San Diego Comic-Con, the Chicago Comic Con, Fan Expo Denver and the annual meetings of the National Cartoonists Society, Bob charmed, sassed and snookered his way into many of the most important forums and consortiums in Comics. His continuous reports, reviews and opinions were highly regarded—and sometimes pointedly criticized—by readers worldwide. (A French comics historian once threatened to sue him over an unflattering review.) An essential presence at the vanguard of comics studies and criticism, Harvey’s early chronicles like Children of the Yellow Kid (University of Washington Press, 1999), blended an enduring love for cartooning and cartoonists with intrepid criticism and dedicated detective work. Unlike many “first wave” fans and historians, however, Harvey was also a practicing cartoonist, who frequently poked fun at his own underwhelming commercial success as a slinger of strips, gags and comic book concepts. Harvey’s creative interests always informed his commitment to celebrating and supporting the craft of making quality comics. Few comics scholars, past or present, have developed such a substantial catalogue of work that delves so thoroughly into the lives, concerns and conflicts of creators - past and present, iconic and obscure. In fact, Harvey’s greatest gift to the medium may arise from the scores of fresh faces and forgotten talents that he encouraged, promoted, interviewed and recovered through his vast and varied “rants and raves.” Some of his best and most rewarding resuscitation work is highlighted in Insider Histories of Cartooning: Rediscovering Forgotten Famous Comics and Their Creators (University Press of Mississippi, 2014) as well as the hundreds of capsule biographies he produced for Oxford’s American National Biography and the dozens of interviews he developed for Jud Hurd’s Cartoonist PROfiles. "Bob was a devoted chronicler of his favorites," remarked author Bob Levin, himself a longtime Comics Journal contributor. "He loved cartoonists and the medium, and he seemed an indefatigable researcher in tracking down their work and documenting their lives. I always learned something from whatever he wrote, and I always looked forward to spotting his byline - sometimes with trepidation at how much free time it was going to cost me." Harvey’s critical work also appeared regularly in every major organ of comics news and criticism including The Comics Journal, Hogan’s Alley, Comic Art, Comics Buyer's Guide, Alter Ego, Comic Book Marketplace, Inks: The Journal of the Comics Studies Society, International Journal of Comic Art, Jack Kirby Collector and so very many more. Several of his book-length works remain standards of comics studies, including The Art of the Funnies (University Press of Mississippi, 1994), The Art of the Comic Book (University Press of Mississippi, 1996) and the dazzling retrospective Accidental Ambassador Gordo: The Comic Strip Art of Gus Arriola (University Press of Mississippi, 2000). A labor of love developed around one of Harvey’s favorite childhood strips, Gordo also brought overdue recognition to a past master of Latinx comics. Since Harvey's passing, the internet has exploded with grateful remembrances from makers, teachers and scholars of comics who found their way into their fields through these and other Harvey texts. Much to his delight, his work frequently garnered criticism and sparked debate concerning his blatant preferences and bold presentiments relating to style, form and genre. Bob’s affably ornery attitudes were clearly derived from his enthusiastic love for the medium, its people and its potential. To that end, two of his most significant works include the Billy Ireland Cartoon Library-published compilation A Gallery of Rogues: Cartoonists’ Self-Caricatures (1998) and Harvey’s proudest effort, his Fantagraphics-published magnum opus biography of Milton Caniff, the tectonically-sized, 952-page Meanwhile... (2007). Both works derived from Harvey’s unequaled respect and regard by professional cartoonists themselves, who felt his work spoke accurately and honestly to their interests as artists, humorists and cultural critics. As a personal aside, it’s worth noting that the original manuscript for Meanwhile... ran for well over 1,700 pages. As the first “assistant” Harvey trusted to edit the text by nearly 50%, I can honestly say that the original project was an even more massive and meandering mastodon that spoke to his gregarious curiosity as a historian of media and culture as well as Caniff’s remarkable influence across every major element of early 20th century American life. As Bob and I often joked after his third martini and my fifth bourbon, it took him 10 years to write it and 3 years for me to ruin it so everybody could read it. For those very few masochists in need of more Meanwhile..., one extant copy of the titanic original is proudly archived at the Ohio State University’s Billy Ireland Library and Museum, where it sits atop an oversized platinum throne, guarded by several three-headed dogs, as Bob proudly boasted. With Meanwhile... especially, Harvey’s enduring friendship with Caniff himself informs every page, line and phrase with admiration for ground-breaking works like Terry and the Pirates, Steve Canyon and Male Call, as well as the 20th century comic strip’s transcendent cultural significance. Though Meanwhile... is easily—and sometimes rudely—criticized for its hefty girth and rampant editorializing, it is a genuine testament to the perseverance, popularity and importance of comics studies; that one of its most avid scholars could take the better part of 20 years to produce and publish a text of such critical (and literal) weight justly serves to confirm the value and influence of this grand master of newspaper adventure serials and the medium in which he worked. Similarly hefty tomes like David Michaelis’ Schulz and Peanuts and Michael Tisserand’s Krazy may owe some small acknowledgments to the outsized length and uncompromising breadth of Meanwhile... Of his many diversified projects, some of Harvey’s finest writing remains under-appreciated. His decade’s worth of attempts to report on the bitter feud between Ham Fisher (Joe Palooka) and Al Capp (Li’l Abner), aptly titled Hubris and Chutzpah: How Li’l Abner Kayo’d Joe Palooka and Both Their Creators Came to Grief was eventually serialized online through TCJ after years of rejections, but the devious deceptions of this true story of revenge and betrayal fascinated Harvey for years. Similarly, my favorite of his many critical works is not the Galactus-sized Meanwhile... or one of his many online reflections on the elegance of Brooks and Wiese’s Freddy the Pig stories (which he always championed). It is, instead, a privately-printed extension of his absolutely charming critical homage to Schulz’s Peanuts, entitled A Meditation on the Art of Cartooning and the Age of Schulz. This oversized 16-page reflection on the many timeless charms of Schulz’s views on children, adults and beagles in all seasons shows Harvey as his insightful, erudite and energetic best as a writer, critic and enthusiast. It includes not only a capsule history of Peanuts itself, but also brief, elegant musings on each iconic character, and a sidebar yarn about Harvey meeting Schulz in his Santa Rosa studio that also speaks beautifully to all who knew or felt they knew both men. I teach it in several courses on comics, popular culture and critical analysis, and students are consistently struck by its loving flow and its author’s perceptive regard for the simple, timeless qualities of great comics. I would give everyone I know a copy if I could. That’s probably not possible, but for those who want to savor a bit more of Bob’s buoyant brand of comics journalism in the fairly near future, please check out his collaboration with the filmmaker Tom Tanquary in the 2020 documentary Hand Drawn Life: The History and Influence of Newspaper Comic Strips. Finally, Bob has left us one last gift of colossal comics criticism. His long-anticipated The Art of Popeye: A Masterwork of the Medium will arrive posthumously this November from Hermes Press, a fittingly super-charged finale to a career of rare and welcome productivity. Finally, it’s appropriate to acknowledge that R.C. Harvey was very well-regarded by his peers, fans and fellow funny men. His awards and accolades are considerable, including the 2013 Association of American Editorial Cartoonists’ Ink Bottle Award and the 2018 San Diego Comic-Con International Inkpot Award for contributions to the world of comics. He also contributed an essay to the Eisner-winning 2008 collection Little Nemo in Slumberland: Many More Splendid Sundays. In truth, Harvey appreciated the praise and recognition, especially his early accolades, such as a Certificate of Merit from Scholastic Magazines as a high school senior and the honor of earning All-Navy Cartoonist in 1960, but Bob was never a man to seek simple, officious validation. He always preferred a great story, a good drink and interesting company. I and several of my cartooning companions including Damian Duffy and John Jennings were fortunate to have enjoyed many such meetings with him, and while comics communities will mourn his passing, I am deeply saddened that his slick wit, quick smile and rich laughter are now lost to us all. In honor of his joyful demeanor, I would rather end with a laugh than a tear, so here is one my favorite stories about the wonderful luck I had to be Bob Harvey’s pal. In early 2003, Bob and I were enjoying one of our many rainy afternoon sojourns through his seemingly limitless archive of interviews, artifacts and ongoing projects in Champaign, Illinois. Many moons before, he had converted his garage into a cozy sort of studio/library/Wunderkammer that was absolutely supersaturated with every form of cartoon object, icon and idol. To be fair to Bob’s myriad interests, there were also copious volumes on journalism, advertising, ethics, political economy and psychology with a few random naturalist and ecologist magazines throw in for good measure. It was a truly cosmic confabulation of treasures and thrills, but my favorite quadrant was the far corner where his plentiful files of original comic strip art were enshrined in a massive, fireproof horizontal file. Every once in a while we would hit the drawers and pull out a special item to savor together. In those days, everyone was crazy for Frank Cho’s Liberty Meadows. The syndicated strip and the Insight/Image title were going gangbusters. Some of this success had come from Bob’s hearty endorsement of Cho’s considerable gifts for gag construction and his gregarious linework. He was especially glad that the strip blended both human and animal comedy so seamlessly, though Bob admitted that he was always a bit disappointed that Cho had decided to change frantic Frank from a duck to a human when he developed Liberty Meadows from its original college newspaper incarnation, University². Still, Harvey promoted Cho’s abilities whenever he could. In gratitude, Cho had sent Bob a beautiful rendering of the entire Liberty Meadows cast complete with a beaming Brandy, a frustrated Frank, and a full complement of their anarchic animal friends. We studied the drawing for quite a while, remarking on Cho’s original pencil roughs and the clear, clean inking that followed as it fleshed out each figure. At one point, the great Bob Harvey asked me to scrutinize Brandy’s ankles. I looked carefully, and they seemed just fine to me. Then he showed me a small erasure near the back of her heel, a line that almost anyone, professional or amateur, would hardly notice. It was probably less than 2 cm and barely more than a glace of the pencil. I smiled and said it looked like a minor glitch in the linework. Bob let out his signature treble laugh and smiled. “Heh. Heh. Heh.” Then he added, “I love this drawing but that darned extra line bothered me. It drove me crazy. I couldn’t stand it, so finally I got up in the middle of the night and I fixed it. I fixed Frank Cho! Now, how about that? Heh. Heh. Heh.” Something about his impish satisfaction got me. We both broke down laughing, and after a few minutes, gladly slipped Bob’s amended Cho back into its vault. As much as I have admired R.C. Harvey for the wisdom, wit and whimsy of his work, I will miss the honest humor of a great man who was dedicated to the art of comics with a passion for perfection that few of us will ever match. So thanks Bob, for all of your comradery, comedy and correction of the things we love to read, draw and share. Tonight, it’s all about suitably chilled martinis and perfectly rendered ankles in your memory.


--- [The Real-Life Couples of the 'Suits' Cast! Who's Dating Whom?] ---
The ‘Suits’ Cast’s Real-Life Romances—From Royalty to TV Stars, See Who They’re With! From THAT royal romance to Hollywood love stories—see who the ‘Suits’ cast is loving in real life! Beloved legal drama Suits kept viewers locked in from 2011 to 2019, and in 2023, the series found a new audience of fans when it began streaming on Netflix. Characters like Harvey Specter and Mike Ross had people coming back for more season after season, and the show’s resurgence has even resulted in a spinoff, Suits: L.A. As much as we adored the on-screen relationships of this iconic series, many of the main characters have found true love off-screen. Here, take a look at the real-life pairings of the Suits cast, with partners ranging from royals to teen stars! Gabriel Macht (Harvey Specter) and Jacinda Barrett Gabriel Macht led the series as Harvey Specter and had his fair share of fictional romance on the show, but off-screen, he’s been a faithful hubby to his longtime partner Jacinda Barrett since 2004 when they tied the knot. The famous face and his wife have two children, Satine and Luca. “She had me laughing, she was a great listener and she was able to balance a conversation where it wasn’t just all about her or me,” Macht said to Glamour back in 2009 of what drew him to his now wife. MUST-READ: Gabriel Macht — Read About the ‘Suits’ Actor Before & After He Was Harvey Specter Patrick J. Adams (Mike Ross) and Troian Bellisario Patrick J. Adams became a fan favorite as Mike Ross, and his wife is a fellow television superstar as well! Adams tied the knot with Troian Bellisario back in 2016, known for her role as Spencer in the hit teen drama Pretty Little Liars throughout the 2010s. Fun fact: Adams appeared as a guest star on Pretty Little Liars, and Bellisario appeared as a guest star on Suits! The couple are parents to two daughters. While both actors were at the height of their fame while together, Adams has said it allowed them to navigate other obstacles. “Our resilience and ability to communicate…and move through things is a direct result, I think, of having to maintain a relationship over so much distance and so much time. It ended up being a real gift,” he said on the Dinner’s On Me podcast. MUST-READ: Read All About Patrick J. Adams — The ‘Suits’ Leading Man We Love Meghan Markle (Rachel Zane) and Prince Harry It’s fair to say that no one in the Suits cast has a more notable relationship than Meghan Markle, who played the part of Rachel Zane. Her marriage to Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex in 2018 was perhaps one of the most notable moments in pop culture of the last ten years, and since tying the knot with the red-headed royal, the couple has welcomed two children: Archie and Lilibet. Sarah Rafferty (Donna Paulsen) and Santtu Seppala The stunning redhead who played the part of Donna Paulsen on Suits met her husband Santtu Seppala while studying at Yale. Her Finnish hubby, whom she tied the knot with back in 2001, works in business development, and the couple has two children together. Vanessa Ray (Jenny Griffith) and Landon Beard Vanessa Ray and Landon Beard made things official in 2015 when they exchanged vows, and since then, the couple have enjoyed much happiness as a married duo. In 2023, they adopted their first child. Conversation All comments are subject to our Community Guidelines. First For Women does not endorse the opinions and views shared by our readers in our comment sections. Our comments section is a place where readers can engage in healthy, productive, lively, and respectful discussions. Offensive language, hate speech, personal attacks, and/or defamatory statements are not permitted. Advertising or spam is also prohibited.
