=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Eleanor Manning O'Connor - Wikipedia]
Eleanor Manning O'Connor was born in 1884 to Delia Josephine Grady and James Manning, a building contractor in Lynn, Massachusetts. [1] Her father was the son of Irish immigrants, John Manning and Ellen Horgan. [2] Eleanor attended Lynn Classical High School. She received an S.B. degree in architecture from M.I.T. in 1906 with a thesis entitled "Design for a Country Residence." [3] She served ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleanor_Manning_O%27Connor

[Manning, Eleanor, 1884-1973 | MIT ArchivesSpace]
Biographical Note Eleanor Manning (later O'Connor) was born in Lynn, Massachusetts, to Delia Josephine Grady and James Manning, a building contractor. Unlike Lois Lilley Howe and Mary Almy, Eleanor Manning started studying at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) School of Architecture after she finished high school. Upon completion of a thesis titled "Design for a Country ...
URL: https://archivesspace.mit.edu/agents/people/369

[Eleanor Manning O'Connor Facts for Kids]
Eleanor Manning O'Connor: An Architect for a Better World Early Life and Education Eleanor Manning O'Connor was born in 1884 in Lynn, Massachusetts. Her parents, Delia Josephine Grady and James Manning, had moved from Ireland. Her father was a building contractor. Eleanor went to Lynn Classical High School.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Eleanor_Manning_O%27Connor

[Eleanor Manning O'Connor - reference.org]
American architect Early life and education Eleanor Manning O'Connor was born in 1884 to Delia Josephine Grady and James Manning, a building contractor in Lynn, Massachusetts. Her father was the son of Irish immigrants, John Manning and Ellen Horgan. Eleanor attended Lynn Classical High School. She received an S.B. degree in architecture from M.I.T. in 1906 with a thesis entitled "Design for a ...
URL: https://reference.org/facts/eleanor_manning_oconnor/JPP9ImpN

[Eleanor Manning O'Connor — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2]
Mar 1, 2024 · Eleanor Manning O'Connor was born in 1884 to parents, Delia Josephine Grady and James Manning, a building contractor in Lynn, Massachusetts. [1] Her Father, James Manning, was the son of Irish immigrants John Manning and Ellen Horgan. [2] Eleanor attended Lynn Classical High School and received an S.B. degree in architecture in 1906.
URL: https://wiki2.org/en/Eleanor_Manning_O%27Connor


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Eleanor Manning O'Connor - Wikipedia] ---
Eleanor Manning O'Connor (June 27, 1884 – July 12, 1973) was an American architect and educator passionate about the creation of decent public housing for all.




--- [Manning, Eleanor, 1884-1973 | MIT ArchivesSpace] ---
Manning, Eleanor, 1884-1973 Dates - Existence: 1884 June 27 - 1973 July 12 Biographical Note Eleanor Manning (later O'Connor) was born in Lynn, Massachusetts, to Delia Josephine Grady and James Manning, a building contractor. Unlike Lois Lilley Howe and Mary Almy, Eleanor Manning started studying at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) School of Architecture after she finished high school. Upon completion of a thesis titled “Design for a Country Residence,” she received her SB in architecture in 1906. During her senior year, she served as president of Cleofan, the Institute’s club for women. Two years after graduation Eleanor Manning started to work as a draftsman for Lois Lilley Howe. While in this position, she also did some private architectural commissions. Her classmate Eliza J. Newkirk Rogers (MIT class of 1905) helped with these commissions, and they may have entered into an informal partnership for a short period. When Manning took an extended leave of absence from Howe’s office in 1912, she went to Europe with Eliza Newkirk Rogers. Eleanor Manning cut her trip short in order to accept Howe’s offer of partnership. During World War I, Eleanor Manning served on the Mayor’s Committee for an Open Air Canteen and on several committees for the Boston Army and Navy Canteen, a facility that Lois Lilley Howe & Manning built. She also chaired the Business Women’s Club’s Social Committee and was on the Ways and Means Committee for the Massachusetts Women’s Suffrage Association. Eleanor Manning started teaching after World War I. She was a special instructor of architecture and then of housing at Simmons College for fifty years. During the 1930s she also began to teach at three other schools: Pine Manor Junior College, Chamberlain School for Retailing, and Garland College. She was also involved in the College Club and the American Association of University Women (AAUW). Throughout her career, Eleanor Manning O’Connor was a frequent lecturer and guest instructor in the New England area. In the 1940s, one of her major tasks as housing chairman of the Massachusetts Civic League was the development and implementation of one of the country’s early Housing Management courses for housing specialists. Eleanor Manning O’Connor’s major professional concern was housing and urban planning. After World War I, the rise of middle-income families and the growth of the urban population created a need for more compact, less expensive, housing. In addition to her work with the Howe, Manning & Almy firm, she was on both the Committee to Reclaim Areas for Better Housing and the Women’s Committee on Membership for the Boston Housing Association. In her home town of Lynn, she served on the City Planning Board for seven years starting in 1923; this position led to her role as secretary for the Massachusetts Federation of Planning Boards. She also attended the 1931 President’s Conference on Home Building and Ownership, where she served on both the Design and the Kitchen Committees. In 1941, she served on the Committee on Housing the Family for the White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. Because of her ten-year chairmanship of the Housing Committee for the Massachusetts Civic League, she was appointed to the Executive Committee of the New England Regional Council of the National Association of Housing Officials in 1944. She belonged to the Housing Association of Metropolitan Boston and to the Architect’s Small House Service Bureau and served on Housing Committees for her non-architectural clubs, such as the AAUW and the Business Women’s Club. One of O’Connor’s greatest honors as a housing expert was her partnership with the Seventeen Associated Architects. This select group of architects planned Old Harbor Village, the first low-cost housing project in Boston, with funding from the Public Works Administration. O’Connor worked with the Seventeen Associated Architects from 1933 to 1938, while continuing as a partner of Howe, Manning & Almy. After the Howe, Manning & Almy firm dissolved, Eleanor O’Connor went into private architectural practice. Her practice continued until at least 1959. Home-building and renovating predominated, but she also designed for Providence Gas, the Garland School, the William Lawrence Camp, and the Fleur-de-Lis Camp. Eleanor O’Connor kept close ties with architectural colleagues. She became a member of the American Institute of Architects in 1923 and the following year attended the AIA convention as a delegate from the Boston Society of Architects (BSA). She participated in various committees for the BSA such as the Entertainment Committee and the Rogers Building Exhibit Committee, as well as serving as secretary for the Education Committee. She was also a member of the Massachusetts Association of Architects and the Society of Technology Architects. Eleanor Manning O’Connor also continued her connections with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. From 1924 to 1926, she served as president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Women’s Association. Later, she was a member of Tech Dames and worked on the Rotch Scholarship Committee for the MIT Alumni Association. In 1931, Eleanor Manning became Johnson O’Connor’s second wife; they died within days of each other in 1973. Johnson O’Connor founded the Human Engineering Laboratory and the Johnson O’Connor Research Foundation. Eleanor O’Connor traveled around the country with him visiting laboratories and served on the Board of Directors and as treasurer. She also designed laboratories and compiled architectural vocabularies for the Human Engineering Laboratory. Occupations Social Networks and Archival Context (SNAC) Identifier - 54027626


--- [Eleanor Manning O'Connor Facts for Kids] ---
Eleanor Manning O'Connor facts for kids Quick facts for kids Eleanor Manning O'Connor | | |---|---| | Born | | | Died | July 12, 1973 | (aged 89) | Nationality | American | | Occupation | Architect | | Parent(s) | Delia Josephine Grady James Manning | | Projects | Old Harbor Housing Project, Village of Mariemont | Eleanor Manning O'Connor (born June 27, 1884 – died July 12, 1973) was an American architect and teacher. She cared deeply about making sure everyone had a good, safe place to live. She worked hard to create public housing that felt like real homes. Contents Eleanor Manning O'Connor: An Architect for a Better World Early Life and Education Eleanor Manning O'Connor was born in 1884 in Lynn, Massachusetts. Her parents, Delia Josephine Grady and James Manning, had moved from Ireland. Her father was a building contractor. Eleanor went to Lynn Classical High School. In 1906, she earned a special degree in architecture from MIT. Her final project was about designing a country house. During her last year, she was the president of Cleofan, a club at MIT for women students. Building a Career in Architecture Two years after finishing college, Eleanor started working as a draftsperson. She worked with Lois Lilley Howe, who was also an architect and an MIT graduate. In 1912, Eleanor took a break to travel in Europe. She went with her friend and classmate, Eliza J. Newkirk Rogers. They painted watercolors of the beautiful buildings they saw. She came back early to become a partner with Lois Howe. Their company was called Howe and Manning. It was one of the first architecture firms in America started by women. Later, it became Howe, Manning & Almy, Inc.. Their firm often worked on making old buildings new again. Eleanor even made up a word for it: "renovising." This meant renovating and modernizing buildings at the same time. Designing Homes for Everyone In the 1920s, Eleanor worked on a special project called the Village of Mariemont. This was a carefully planned community in Hamilton County, Ohio. She worked with Lois Howe and other architects on this project. One of her most important projects was designing low-cost housing. This was for an Irish neighborhood in South Boston. The project was called the Old Harbor Housing Project. It was built between 1933 and 1938. Eleanor worked with a group of architects called the Seventeen Associated Architects. The Old Harbor Housing Project was special. It had three-story apartments and two-story townhouses. It felt more like a real neighborhood than many other public housing projects. People said it had a "residential appeal." Eleanor was very focused on social issues. She made sure the buildings had good details, materials, and proportions. This made the project feel welcoming and appealing. Because of her work, Eleanor served on many housing groups. She worked at the city, state, and national levels. Eleanor as a Teacher After World War I, Eleanor started teaching at Simmons College. She taught architecture and later, housing. She taught there for 50 years! In the 1930s, she also taught at other colleges. These included Pine Manor Junior College, Chamberlain School for Retailing, and Garland College. She often gave talks about housing all over the New England area. Working with Johnson O'Connor In 1931, Eleanor Manning married Johnson O'Connor. He was a researcher and teacher who studied how people's minds work. He started the Johnson O'Connor Research Foundation. At the foundation, Eleanor became a champion for women. She encouraged young women to go into fields like engineering, medicine, and science. Eleanor Manning O'Connor passed away in Mexico in 1973. She was researching different Indian cultures at the time. She is buried next to her husband in Newport Beach, California. Her husband's son, Chadwell O'Connor, who was an engineer, survived her. See also In Spanish: Eleanor Manning O'Connor para niños


--- [Eleanor Manning O'Connor - reference.org] ---
No content


--- [Eleanor Manning O'Connor — Wikipedia Republished // WIKI 2] ---
No content
