=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Peder Munk - Wikipedia]
Peder Munk was the son of Ludvig Munk (d. 1537) and Kirstin Pedersdatte Lykke. He was born at Lønborggård, Lønborg, Ringkøbing, Denmark, on 22 April 1534. Peder's younger brother Ludvig Munk was also a sailor and a soldier, whose daughter Kirsten Munk married Christian IV of Denmark in 1615. Peder Munk's main estate from 1566 was Estvadgård in Skive Kommune. [2] In 1575, Peder Munk was ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peder_Munk

[Peder Munk Explained]
Peder Munk of Estvadgård (1534-1623), was a Danish navigator, politician, and ambassador, who was in charge of the fleet carrying Anne of Denmark to Scotland. The events of the voyage led to witch trials and executions in Denmark and Scotland.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/Peder_Munk/

[Peder Munk | Military Wiki | Fandom]
Peder Munk of Estvadgård (1534-1623), was a Danish navigator, politician, and ambassador, who was in charge of the fleet carrying Anne of Denmark to Scotland. The events of the voyage led to witch trials and executions in Denmark and Scotland. Peder Munk was the son of Ludvig Munk (d. 1537) and Kirstin Pedersdatte Lykke. He was born at Lønborggård, Lønborg, Ringkøbing, Denmark, on 22 ...
URL: https://military-history.fandom.com/wiki/Peder_Munk

[Peder Munk Facts for Kids]
Peder Munk of Estvadgård (born 1534, died 1623) was an important person in Denmark's history. He was a skilled sailor, a politician, and a special messenger (ambassador) for his country.
URL: https://kids.kiddle.co/Peder_Munk

[Peder Munk, (Lange) (1534 - 1623) - Genealogy - Geni.com]
May 1, 2022 · Peder Munk (1534-1623) til Estvadgård var dansk marineofficer og rigsmarsk. Han blev født på Lønborggård, hvor hans far, Ludvig Munk til Palsgård (død 1537), sad som lensmand under Ribe bispestol. Moderen, Kirstine Lykke, blev senere gift med Christoffer Johansen Urne til Rygård.
URL: https://www.geni.com/people/Peder-Munk-Lange/5223433605990032951


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Peder Munk - Wikipedia] ---
Peder Munk of Estvadgård (1534–1623), was a Danish navigator, politician, and ambassador, who was in charge of the fleet carrying Anne of Denmark to Scotland. The events of the voyage led to witch trials and executions in Denmark and Scotland.


--- [Peder Munk Explained] ---
Peder Munk of Estvadgård (1534–1623), was a Danish navigator, politician, and ambassador, who was in charge of the fleet carrying Anne of Denmark to Scotland. The events of the voyage led to witch trials and executions in Denmark and Scotland. Peder Munk was the son of Ludvig Munk (d. 1537) and Kirstin Pedersdatte Lykke. He was born at Lønborggård, Lønborg, Ringkøbing, Denmark, on 22 April 1534. Peder's younger brother Ludvig Munk was also a sailor and a soldier, whose daughter Kirsten Munk married Christian IV of Denmark in 1615. Peder Munk's main estate from 1566 was Estvadgård in Skive Kommune.[1] In 1575, Peder Munk was made Admiral of Denmark, the Admiral of the Realm or 'Rigsadmiral'; in 1588, he was made one of the council, the Rigsraadet of regents for Christian IV.[2] Peder Munk is said to have provided a miniature warship for the young king in a Jutland lake. On 20 August 1589, Peder Munk and others accepted an agreement at Helsingør over the rule of the islands Orkney from the Scottish ambassador George Keith, 5th Earl Marischal, as part of the marriage arrangements of James VI of Scotland and Anne of Denmark, a sister of Christian IV.[3] In August 1589, the Danish council decided that Peder Munk, Breide Rantzau, Dr Paul Knibbe, and Niels Krag would accompany Anne of Denmark, the bride of James VI, to Scotland. Peder sailed on 5 September with Henrik Knudsen Gyldenstierne, admiral of the fleet, and 18 ships.[4] Munk and Henrik Gildenstern sailed with a Danish fleet including the Gideon, Josaphad or Josafat their flagship, Samson, Joshua, Dragon, Raphael, St Michael, Gabriel, Little Sertoun (Lille Fortuna), Mouse, Rose, the Falcon of Birren, the Blue Lion, the Blue Dove (Blaa Due) and the White Dove (Hvide Due).[5] There were two accidents on the ships at Copenhagen involving exploding cannons.[6] The fleet was delayed by adverse and contrary winds. They first stopped at a safe haven in Norway, "Gamel Sellohe", where the leaking Gideon was repaired, then at Flekkerøy. The Samson, St Michael, and the Joshua returned to Copenhagen. In Scotland, James waited for his bride at Seton Palace in East Lothian.[7] He worked up his feelings into a sonnet, A complaint against the contrary wyndes that hindered the Queene to com to Scotland from Denmarke.[8] A ferry boat on the Forth collided with another vessel in a storm drowning all its passengers, including Jane Kennedy who was to join the queen's household. There was an inquiry and trial about this incident, but later in 1590 this disaster and the accidents of the royal voyages were attributed to witchcraft.[9] James VI sent the Scottish diplomat William Stewart with John Skene and Peter Young to Anna in Norway. They sailed from Flekkerøy to Copenhagen and told Henrik Ramel (Ramelius) of the predicament facing the Danish fleet. At Helsingør, Jørgen Rosenkrantz and Christoffer Valkendorf asked for the Regent's and Council's advice, and wrote to Anna of Denmark asking if she would return to Denmark, but they realised the Scottish envoys and George Keith, 5th Earl Marischal wanted her to continue her journey or stay at Oslo.[10] Meanwhile, Steen Bille, William Stewart, and Andrew Sinclair brought Anna's letters in French from Flekkerøy to Edinburgh on 10 October, describing the delay and four or five failed attempts to cross the North Sea, and saying she would stay in Norway.[11] James VI decided to sail to Norway and escort her back to Denmark.[12] James VI and Anne of Denmark returned to Scotland on 1 May 1590 with the remainder of the Danish fleet. Munk, Breide Rantzau, and Steen Brahe came as ambassadors. On their arrival at Leith, James VI presented the skipper of Munk's ship, the pilots, trumpeters, violers and kettle drummers with forty gold rose noble coins, accounted from his dowry. Peder Munk was given a jewel.[13] Before Anne's coronation in Edinburgh, Peder Munk travelled to view and take formal possession of the lands which James VI had given Anne of Denmark as a "morning gift".[14] This gift was confirmed by the presentation of a special charter with the royal seal and the seals of representatives of the Parliament of Scotland and the Scottish burgh towns. Munk went first to Rossend Castle the home of Sir Robert Melville, and stayed at Wemyss Castle. On 12 May they visited Falkland Palace, then his party stayed the night with the Earl of Morton at the Newhouse of Lochleven Castle. Next, on 13 May, they went to Dunfermline Palace and then after a night at Niddry Castle, on 14 May, Linlithgow Palace. At each palace, the lawyer John Skene read out the details of the property, then Munk was given a handful of earth and stone, the traditional Scottish ceremony of transferring ownership or "sasine".[15] Back in Edinburgh, on 17 May, the day of the queen's coronation, Munk, Steen Brahe, and Breide Rantzau walked with Anne of Denmark down the aisle of Holyrood Abbey on her left side, and the English ambassador Sir Robert Bowes walked on the right. They were followed by Bowes's wife Eleanor Musgrove, the Countess of Mar, Margaret Douglas, Countess of Bothwell, and Jean Kennedy Countess of Orkney who carried the train of the queen's gown and cloak.[16] On 18 May, Munk and Lord Hamilton escorted Anne of Denmark into St Giles during the ceremony of her entry into the town.[17] The town of Edinburgh held a banquet a few days later for the Danish envoys and the king and queen. It was held in the house of the master of the mint, Thomas Aitchisoun, at the foot of Todrick's Wynd.[18] The organiser was John MacMorran who had the room hung with tapestry, hired musicians, and arranged a guard of honour carrying halberds. The goldsmith Thomas Foulis provided gold chains as diplomatic gifts for Munk and the other Danish envoys.[19] After his return to Denmark, Peder Munk became involved in litigation with Christoffer Valkendorff, treasurer and governor or Stadtholder of Copenhagen, about equipping the fleet and defective ships in October 1589.[20] Some women were accused of witchcraft in the Copenhagen witch trials, raising storms or sabotaging the ships intended to carry Anne to Scotland.[21] Anna Koldings and others were executed for gathering in Karen Vævers's house to infest the keels of the ships with little devils, Pil-Hesteskou and Smuk (Arrow-Horseshoe and Pretty), smuggled onto the ships in barrels.[22] News of the arrest of five or six women in Copenhagen reached Edinburgh by 23 July 1590. The English ambassador Robert Bowes wrote, "It is advertised from Denmark, that the Admiral there has caused five or six witches to be taken in Copenhagen, upon suspicion that by their witchcraft they had stayed the Queen of Scots voyage into Scotland, and sought to have stayed likewise the King's return."[23] In October 1590, the Danish diplomat Dr Paul Knibbe or Knibius wrote to Daniel Rogers in London that Peder Munk's fleet had been threatened by witches led by Margrete the wife of Jakob Skiber, consul in Copenhagen. Munk accompanied the accused couple to their trial and sentencing. Margrete was burnt and the possessions of Jakob were confiscated.[24] In Scotland, several people were accused of trying to sink the royal ships by magic in the North Berwick witch trials. The "articles of dittay" indicting Agnes Sampson of witchcraft include raising winds to prevent the queen sailing to Scotland.[25] The safe delivery of James VI and Anne of Denmark from the "conspiracy of witches" was celebrated at the baptism of their son Prince Henry at Stirling Castle in August 1594.[26] The "Admiral of Denmark" is said to have returned to Scotland as ambassador in August 1591 with a train of 200 followers.[27] He spoke to James VI about the disagreements between Anne of Denmark and the Chancellor John Maitland of Thirlestane.[28] On 29 July 1590, Munk was with Christian IV and his mother Sophie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow in the palace of Koldinghus at Kolding. They entertained the Scottish ambassadors John Skene and William Stewart. At dinner the ambassadors were seated at one table with the king, Munk, Peder Gyldenstierne, Steen Brahe, Hak Holgersen Ulfstand, Henrik Below, and Breide Rantzau, which was a special honour for the diplomats.[29] From 1596 to 1608, he was Marshal of the Realm or Rigsmarsk, the commander of Danish armed forces, in succession to Hak Holgersen Ulfstand (1535-1594). He married Karen Skeel (d. 1601) in 1566, a daughter of Albert Skeel and Kirsten Sandberg. Their heraldry, dated 1568, is represented in a carving at Borre kirke, on the island of Møn. On 29 July 1604, he married Sophie Pedersdatter Brahe (1580-1638), a daughter of Peder Jensson Brahe (d. 1610) and Margarete Albretsdatter Gøye (d. 1594). Peder Munk came to England in the retinue of Christian IV and King James gave him a gift of gilt plate on 11 August 1606.[30] From 1589, Munk owned the manor at Sæbygård at Volstrup Sogn. The house had been built for the previous owners by Hercules (or Claus) Midow. In 1621 Munk sold Estvadgård to Johan Rantzau. Peder Munk died in 1623 at Sødringholm, Udbyhøj, a manor that he had bought in 1592, and was buried on 31 March at Volstrup Church. His widow Sophie Brahe sold Sødringholm to Gert Rantzau (1558-1627) in 1625 and made her home at Sæbygård, where she had the east wing rebuilt. Their daughter, Kirsten Munk (1608-1624), and Sophie were also buried at Volstrup.[31] Munk had a house in Copenhagen in the Admiralgade. In 1607, Anna Busch Walker, who claimed to be a prophet, made an illustrated manuscript and presented it to Anne of Denmark. She wrote that she was the daughter of George Busch, born in Copenhagen, upon the Holm in "Peter Munckss" house, now "ritsch amirall" in Denmark. The Holm, Holmen, or Bremerholm was a former island reclaimed to make a naval base.[32]


--- [Peder Munk | Military Wiki | Fandom] ---
No content


--- [Peder Munk Facts for Kids] ---
Peder Munk facts for kids Peder Munk of Estvadgård (born 1534, died 1623) was an important person in Denmark's history. He was a skilled sailor, a politician, and a special messenger (ambassador) for his country. He was in charge of the ships that took Anne of Denmark to Scotland to marry King James VI. This journey later led to some unusual events, including accusations of witchcraft in both Denmark and Scotland. Contents Who Was Peder Munk? Peder Munk was born on April 22, 1534, in a place called Lønborggård in Denmark. His father was Ludvig Munk and his mother was Kirstin Pedersdatte Lykke. Peder had a younger brother, Ludvig Munk, who was also a sailor and soldier. Peder's niece, Kirsten Munk, later married Christian IV of Denmark, who became king. From 1566, Peder Munk's main home was an estate called Estvadgård, located in Skive. In 1575, Peder Munk became the Admiral of Denmark. This was a very high position, meaning he was the main commander of all the Danish ships. In 1588, he was part of the Rigsraadet, a special council that helped rule Denmark while the young King Christian IV was growing up. It's said that Peder Munk even gave the young king a miniature warship to play with in a lake! On August 20, 1589, Peder Munk and other Danish officials signed an agreement in Helsingør. This agreement was about the Scottish islands of Orkney. It was part of the plans for the marriage between King James VI of Scotland and Anne of Denmark, who was the sister of King Christian IV. A Royal Voyage to Scotland In August 1589, the Danish council decided that Peder Munk, along with Breide Rantzau, Dr Paul Knibbe, and Niels Krag, would go with Anne of Denmark to Scotland. She was going there to marry King James VI. Peder set sail on September 5 with Henrik Knudsen Gyldenstierne, who was the admiral of the fleet, and 18 ships. Some of the ships in their fleet were the Gideon, the Josaphad (their main ship), the Samson, Joshua, Dragon, Raphael, St Michael, Gabriel, Little Sertoun, Mouse, Rose, Falcon of Birren, Blue Lion, Blue Dove, and White Dove. Winter in Norway Before they even left Copenhagen, there were two accidents on the ships involving cannons exploding. The fleet was then delayed by very strong and difficult winds. They first found a safe place to stop in Norway, where the ship Gideon was repaired because it was leaking. They then stopped at Flekkerøy. Some of the ships, like the Samson, St Michael, and Joshua, had to return to Copenhagen. Meanwhile, in Scotland, King James was waiting for his bride at Seton Palace. He even wrote a poem about the strong winds that were stopping the queen from arriving! During this time, a ferry boat on the River Forth crashed with another ship in a storm. Everyone on the ferry drowned, including a lady named Jane Kennedy who was supposed to join the queen's household. Later, in 1590, people started to believe that these accidents and the problems with the royal ships were caused by witchcraft. King James VI sent some Scottish messengers, including William Stewart and John Skene, to Anne in Norway. They sailed to Copenhagen and told the Danish officials about the problems the fleet was facing. Anne of Denmark decided to stay in Norway. King James then decided to sail to Norway himself to bring her back to Scotland. Return to Scotland and Royal Gifts King James VI and Anne of Denmark finally returned to Scotland on May 1, 1590, with the rest of the Danish fleet. Peder Munk, Breide Rantzau, and Steen Brahe came as special messengers. When they arrived in Leith, King James gave gifts of gold coins to the captain of Munk's ship, the pilots, and the musicians. Peder Munk himself received a beautiful jewel. Before Anne's official crowning (coronation) in Edinburgh, Peder Munk traveled to see the lands that King James VI had given Anne of Denmark as a special wedding gift, called a "morning gift". This gift was made official with a special document that had the king's seal on it. Munk first visited Rossend Castle and stayed at Wemyss Castle. On May 12, they visited Falkland Palace. Then, on May 13, they went to Dunfermline Palace and later to Linlithgow Palace. At each palace, a lawyer named John Skene read out the details of the property. Then, Peder Munk was given a handful of earth and stones. This was a traditional Scottish ceremony to show that ownership of the land was being officially transferred. Back in Edinburgh, on May 17, the day of the queen's coronation, Peder Munk, Steen Brahe, and Breide Rantzau walked with Anne of Denmark into Holyrood Abbey. They were followed by other important people who carried the queen's long dress. On May 18, Munk and Lord Hamilton walked with Anne of Denmark into St Giles' Cathedral for her official entry into the town. A few days later, the town of Edinburgh held a big dinner party for the Danish messengers, the king, and the queen. It was held in a fancy house decorated with tapestries, and there were musicians and guards. Peder Munk and the other Danish messengers received gold chains as diplomatic gifts. Witchcraft Accusations After Peder Munk returned to Denmark, he became involved in a disagreement with Christoffer Valkendorff, who was in charge of money and government in Copenhagen. This was about how the fleet was prepared and if the ships were faulty. Around this time, some women in Copenhagen were accused of witchcraft. People believed they had caused storms or damaged the ships that were supposed to take Anne to Scotland. For example, a woman named Anna Koldings and others were accused of meeting to put "little devils" onto the ships. News of these arrests reached Scotland by July 1590. The English ambassador, Robert Bowes, wrote that the Danish Admiral (Peder Munk) had arrested five or six witches in Copenhagen. They were suspected of using witchcraft to stop the Queen of Scots' journey to Scotland and to stop the King's return. In October 1590, a Danish diplomat named Dr Paul Knibbe wrote that Peder Munk's fleet had been threatened by witches. He mentioned a woman named Margrete, who was accused of leading these witches. Munk went with the accused couple to their trial. Margrete was found guilty, and her husband's possessions were taken away. In Scotland, several people were also accused of trying to sink the royal ships using magic. These were known as the North Berwick witch trials. One of the accusations against a woman named Agnes Sampson was that she raised winds to stop the queen from sailing to Scotland. The safe return of King James VI and Anne of Denmark from this "conspiracy of witches" was celebrated at the special event for their son Prince Henry in August 1594. Scotland Visit in 1591 It is believed that Peder Munk returned to Scotland as an ambassador in August 1591 with many followers. He spoke with King James VI about some disagreements between Anne of Denmark and the Scottish Chancellor, John Maitland. Important Roles and Family Life On July 29, 1590, Munk was with King Christian IV and his mother, Sophie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow, at Koldinghus palace. They hosted the Scottish messengers John Skene and William Stewart. At dinner, the messengers were given a special honor by sitting at the same table as the king and other important Danish officials, including Munk. From 1596 to 1608, Peder Munk held another very important position: Marshal of the Realm. This meant he was the commander of all the Danish armed forces. Peder Munk married Karen Skeel in 1566. She was the daughter of Albert Skeel and Kirsten Sandberg. Their family symbols from 1568 can still be seen carved in a church at Borre. On July 29, 1604, he married Sophie Pedersdatter Brahe. Peder Munk also visited England with King Christian IV in 1606. King James gave him a gift of fancy gold plates. From 1589, Munk owned a large house called Sæbygård. In 1621, he sold his old home, Estvadgård. Peder Munk passed away in 1623 at a manor called Sødringholm, which he had bought in 1592. He was buried on March 31 at Volstrup Church. His wife, Sophie Brahe, later sold Sødringholm in 1625. She then lived at Sæbygård, where she had part of the house rebuilt. Their daughter, Kirsten Munk (who died in 1624), and Sophie were also buried at Volstrup. Peder Munk also had a house in Copenhagen. In 1607, a woman named Anna Busch Walker, who said she could see the future, wrote a special book for Anne of Denmark. She wrote that she was born in Peder Munk's house in Copenhagen, in an area that was once a naval base.


--- [Peder Munk, (Lange) (1534 - 1623) - Genealogy - Geni.com] ---
Immediate Family - daughter - stepfather - half sister About Peder Munk, (Lange) Peder Munk (Lange)[1] 1535 - 1623 Fødsel 13 mar. 1535 Køn Mand Død 31 mar. 1623 Sidst ændret 02 sep. 2009 Far Ludvig Munk (Lange), f. ca. 1510, d. 20 maj 1537 Mor Kirsten Pedersdatter Lykke, f. ca. 1515, d. eft. 17 aug. 1570 Familie-ID F3394 Gruppeskema Familie 1 Karen Albertsdatter Skeel, f. Skønnet 1544, d. 19 dec. 1601, Gammel Hammelmose Gods (Tise, Børglum H.) Gift 1566 Sidst ændret 04 jan. 2010 Familie 2 Sophie Pedersdatter Brahe, f. 01 jun. 1580, Krogsholm , d. 01 apr. 1638, Sæbygaard Gods (Dronninglund H.) Gift 1604 Børn 1. Kirsten Munk (Lange), f. 11 jun. 1608, Estvadgaard (Estvadgaard Kloster) - Estvad, Ginding, Ringkøbing, Danmark , d. 03 maj 1624, Roskilde, Sømme, Roskilde, Danmark Familie-ID F4897 Gruppeskema Billeder Coat of arms - Lange - Munk - Frost Notater til Estvadgaard, D.D.R og Admiral. Regeringsraad i Kong Chr. IV Mindreårighed. Kilder [S2] Danmarks Adels Aarbog, Thiset, Hiort-Lorenzen, Bobé, Teisen., (Dansk Adelsforening), [1884 - 2005]., DAA 1901:257. Peder Munk (1534-1623) til Estvadgård var dansk marineofficer og rigsmarsk. Han blev født på Lønborggård, hvor hans far, Ludvig Munk til Palsgård (død 1537), sad som lensmand under Ribe bispestol. Moderen, Kirstine Lykke, blev senere gift med Christoffer Johansen Urne til Rygård. Peder Munk blev blev uddannet hos hertug Philip af Pommern-Wolgast, hvor han var i 10 år. I 1559 blev han hofjunker under Frederik 2. og fulgte med denne ved erobringen af Ditmarsken samme år. Siden overgik han til flåden, hvor han gjorde karriere under Den Nordiske Syvårskrig 1563-70. I 1564 var han Herluf Trolles løjtnant på skibet Fortuna i kampe på Østersøen. Det følgende år kommanderede han Achilles i en træfning, hvor Herluf Trolle omkom. Da Erik Rud samme år blev admiral, udnævntes Munk til hans løjtnant. Han overlevede i 1566 en storm ved Gulland, der ødelagde en stor del af den danske flåde, og han efterfulgte flådens øverskommanderende admiral Evert Bild ved dennes død i 1567. I 1569 bemægtigede han sig i Reval i Estland omkring 150 koffardiskibe, hvoraf de bedste førtes til København, mens resten blev brændt. Da han vendte hjem med byttet og med nogle erobrede danzigske og polske kaperskibe, ønskede Anders Sørensen Vedel ham til lykke med hexametre på latin. I 1589 førte han den eskadre, der skulle bringe kongedatteren Anna til Skotland, men som på grund af storm ikke nåede længere end til Norge, hvor prinsessen tog ophold for vinteren, mens Munk vendte tilbage til København. Det følgende år kunne han imidlertid føre det skotske kongepar til Edinburgh, hvor han deltog i dronningens kroning. I 1591 ledsagede han den unge Christian 4. til Norge. I 1571 var han blevet medlem af rigsrådet, og i 1588 blev han medlem af et firemandsudvalg, som rigsrådet nedsatte til at styre landet som formyndere for den endnu ikke myndige Christian 4. Mellem Munk og Christoffer Valkendorf, der også var medlem af formynderregeringen, var der strid, fordi Valkendorf af Frederik 2. havde fået tilsyn med Holmen og orlogsskibene, hvad Munk så som et indgreb i sit admiralsembede. I Kolding i 1590 anklagede Munk Valkendorf for skibenes dårlige tilstand ved det mislykkede forsøg på at bringe prinsesse Anna til Skotland. Men Valkendorf kunne tilbagevise dette, og nogle kvinder blev i stedet brændt som hekse. I 1593 trak Munk sig ud af rigsrådet. Da Christian 4. i 1596 selv overtog styret, blev Munk udnævnt til rigsmarsk og Valkendorf rigshofmester. Munk havde dette embede til 1608. Han var forlenet med Odensegård 1565-66, med Åstrup i Vendsyssel 1566-74 og med Lundegård paa Mors 1567-74, med Stege 1568-96, med Elmelunde 1574-96, med Hundslund Kloster 1574-81, med Hals Birk 1592-97, med Asmild Kloster 1596-97 og med Vestervig Kloster 1596-1608. Foruden Estvadgård ved Skive ejede han Sæbygaard ved Sæby, Sødringholm og Demstrup (begge ved Mariager) samt det meste af Vrejlev Kloster. I København, Randers og Kolding havde han gårde. I 1602 købte han Hersomgård af sin svigerinde Anne Lykke, men skødet blev dømt ugyldigt, og man kan idet hele taget af forskellige domme se, at hans pengetransaktioner ikke altid levede op til lovens krav. Han blev i 1566 gift med Karen Skeel, datter af Albert Skeel til Fussingø; hun døde 1601 efter et barnløst ægteskab. I 1604 blev den 70-årige enkemand gift med Sophie Brahe, datter af Peder Brahe til Krogholm. Hun fødte 1608 ham en datter, Kirsten, der døde året efter sin far. I 1623 døde Munk på Sødringholm, 89 år gammel. Enken giftede sig senere med Malte Sehested til Ryhave og døde i 1638. I Borre Kirke på Møn findes stole fra 1568 med udskåret heraldik for Peder Munk og Karen Skeel. Peder Munk, (Lange)'s Timeline | 1534 | March 13, 1534 | Lønborg Bispegård | | | 1608 | 1608 | || | 1623 | March 31, 1623 Age 89 | Sødringholm | | | ???? | ||| | ???? | Volstrup Kirke or Viborg Cathedral, Viborg, Denmark |
