=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[John Constable - Wikipedia]
John Constable RA (/ ˈkʌnstəbəl, ˈkɒn -/; [1] 11 June 1776 – 31 March 1837) was an English landscape painter in the Romantic tradition. Born in Suffolk, he is known principally for revolutionising the genre of landscape painting [2] with his pictures of Dedham Vale, the area on the borderland of Suffolk and north Essex surrounding his home – now known as "Constable Country" – which ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Constable

[The Opening of Waterloo Bridge]
The Opening of Waterloo Bridge is an 1832 history painting by the British artist John Constable. It depicts the scene on 18 June 1817 when the newly ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Opening_of_Waterloo_Bridge

[John Constable | Romantic Landscape Painter, English Artist ...]
Feb 22, 2026 · John Constable (born June 11, 1776, East Bergholt, Suffolk, England—died March 31, 1837, London) was a major figure in English landscape painting in the early 19th century.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Constable

[Grokipedia: The Opening of Waterloo Bridge]
Learn more about The Opening of Waterloo Bridge on Grokipedia.
URL: https://grokipedia.com/page/The_Opening_of_Waterloo_Bridge

[Constable and the English landscape - Smarthistory]
Reviving landscape painting Studying the English painter John Constable is helpful in understanding the changing meaning of nature during the industrial revolution. He is, in fact, largely responsible for reviving the importance of landscape painting in the 19th century.
URL: https://smarthistory.org/constable-and-the-english-landscape/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [John Constable - Wikipedia] ---
John Constable  (; 11 June 1776 – 31 March 1837) was an English landscape painter in the Romantic tradition. Born in Suffolk, he is known principally for revolutionising the genre of landscape painting with his pictures of Dedham Vale, the area on the borderland of Suffolk and north Essex surrounding his home – now known as "Constable Country" – which he invested with an intensity of affection. "I should paint my own places best", he wrote to his friend John Fisher in 1821, "painting is but another word for feeling".
Constable's most famous paintings include Wivenhoe Park (1816), Dedham Vale (1828) and The Hay Wain (1821). Although his paintings are now among the most popular and valuable in British art, he was never financially successful. He was elected to the Royal Academy of Arts at the age of 52. His work was embraced in France, where he sold more than in his native England and inspired the Barbizon school.




--- [The Opening of Waterloo Bridge] ---
The Opening of Waterloo Bridge is an 1832 history painting by the British artist John Constable. It depicts the scene on 18 June 1817 when the newly constructed Waterloo Bridge across the  River Thames in London was ceremonially opened by the Prince Regent. To distinguish it from other works of the scene by Constable and others,  it is known by the longer alternative title  Embarkation of George IV from Whitehall: The Opening of Waterloo Bridge, 1817.
The bridge, designed by John Rennie, was opened on the second anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo after which it was named. Constable witnessed the event and made a number of preparatory paintings aimed towards producing a larger canvas to commemorate the event. He found the subject difficult and continually revised the scene. 
While many of his earlier efforts reflected his traditional style of painting, Constable's artistic style underwent a dramatic change in the late 1820s around the time his wife Maria died in Hampstead. He began to add short sweeps of white to his painting to emphasise light. However his critics derided this and called it "Constable's snow". The final version of the painting, exhibited at the Royal Academy's Summer Exhibition of 1832 reflected this later style.

The scene shows several barges leaving for the bridge, led by that of the Prince Regent (by the time the painting was exhibited he had reigned for a decade as George IV before his death in 1830). It is more distant from the earlier Constable paintings which were set closer to bridge and provides a wider panorama of the scene on the Thames. It includes Somerset House close to the new bridge, where the Royal Academy was based. Reflecting the time lapse between the scene depicted and its eventual completion, Constable adds a number of industrial buildings on the South Bank which were not present in 1817.
It is today in the collection of the  Tate Britain in Pimlico, having been acquired in 1987.


--- [John Constable | Romantic Landscape Painter, English Artist ...] ---
John Constable - Who was John Constable? - What kind of art was John Constable known for creating? - What landscapes or places did Constable often paint? - Why is Constable considered an important figure in British art? - What techniques did Constable use to show nature and weather in his paintings? - How did John Constable’s style influence other artists and the development of landscape painting? News • John Constable (born June 11, 1776, East Bergholt, Suffolk, England—died March 31, 1837, London) was a major figure in English landscape painting in the early 19th century. He is best known for his paintings of the English countryside, particularly those representing his native valley of the River Stour, an area that came to be known as “Constable country.” Beginnings The son of a wealthy miller and merchant who owned a substantial house and small farm, Constable was reared in a small Suffolk village. The environs of his childhood and his understanding of its rural economy would later figure prominently in his work. As he would write in 1821, “I should paint my own places best…I associate my ‘careless boyhood’ to all that lies on the banks of the Stour.” Constable was meant to enter his father’s business, but, after meeting the famous connoisseur Sir George Beaumont in 1795, and then a circle of antiquarians and connoisseurs at Edmonton in 1796, he was inspired to pursue art. In February 1799 he made himself known to the influential academician Joseph Farington, and in March he entered the prestigious Royal Academy schools, with the grudging approval of his father. At the time, art academies stressed history painting as the most appropriate subject matter for their students, but from the beginning Constable showed a particular interest in landscape. In 1802 Constable refused the stability of a post as drawing master at a military academy so that he could instead dedicate himself to landscape painting and to studying nature directly in the English countryside. That same year he exhibited his work at the Royal Academy for the first time. Despite some early explorations in oil, in the first part of this decade he preferred using watercolour and graphic media in his studies of nature. He produced fine studies in these media during a trip to the famously picturesque Lake District in autumn 1806, but his exhibitions of these works in both 1807 and 1808 were unsuccessful in attracting public notice. Early maturity Although based in London during this period, Constable would frequently make extended visits to his native East Bergholt to sketch. (On one such stay in 1809, he fell in love with Maria Bicknell, who was visiting her grandfather, the rector there.) Constable had been regularly sketching in oil since 1808, and by 1810 he had achieved extraordinary deftness with the medium (he would often be associated with his oil sketches in the future). His art became far more focused about this time: his sketches were either discrete studies, or, befitting academic practice, they were made in preparation for preconceived easel paintings. The most significant large easel painting of the period was Dedham Vale: Morning (1811), which married closely observed naturalistic effect to a scene composed according to the academic criteria established by 17th-century French painter Claude Lorrain. In September 1811 Constable stayed in Salisbury with an old family friend, the Bishop of Salisbury, and grew close to the bishop’s nephew, John Fisher. Their correspondence is a hugely informative source on Constable’s art: he explains his aims and aspirations, reacts candidly and sometimes aggressively to contemporary criticism, and reveals himself to be driven, ambitious, and prey to gnawing self-doubt. During this period, Bicknell’s family was pressuring her to end her relationship with the struggling artist, and her courtship with him had to become effectively clandestine. Constable found relief from this distraction by working in East Bergholt and, by 1814, with Boatbuilding and The Stour Valley and Dedham Village, he was painting easel pictures in the open. In his works from this period, such as Flatford Mill (1816), Constable displayed remarkable precision of touch and accuracy in description, comparable to contemporary landscapes by George Robert Lewis and John Linnell. His iconography was traditional and celebrated the continuum and stability of English country life. Constable achieved a bittersweet stability of his own when, upon his father’s death in 1816, he received an inheritance that allowed him the financial independence to marry Maria.


--- [Grokipedia: The Opening of Waterloo Bridge] ---
Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures.


--- [Constable and the English landscape - Smarthistory] ---
No content
