=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Comme des Garçons - Wikipedia]
The label was started in Tokyo by Rei Kawakubo in 1969 and established as a company in 1973. The brand's name was inspired by Françoise Hardy's 1962 song "Tous les garçons et les filles", particularly from the line "Comme les garçons et les filles de mon âge" ("like the boys and girls my age").
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comme_des_Gar%C3%A7ons

[Beginner's Guide to Comme des Garçons | GOAT]
Nov 14, 2025 — Junya Watanabe Comme des Garçons x Nike Zoom Haven (1999) ... In 1999, Nike launched the Alpha Project. An early precursor to future innovation ...
URL: https://www.goat.com/editorial/beginners-guide-to-cdg

[Junya Watanabe runway archives 1993-2022 - Issue 20 - System Magazine]
After hiring Junya Watanabe as a pattern-cutter at Comme des Garçons in the mid-1980s, Rei Kawakubo invited the designer to establish a label under his own name in 1992. Having showed a first collection in Tokyo, he came to Europe in March 1993 to present his debut womenswear show at Paris Fashion Week. Over the ensuing 30 years, the designer has built a reputation for powerfully inventive ...
URL: https://system-magazine.com/issues/issue-20/junya-watanabe-runway-archives-1993-2022

[Who is Junya Watanabe? Everything you need to know about the Japanese Designer]
Aug 5, 2021 · During the early 90s – 1992, to be precise – Junya Watanabe decided it was time to set up a namesake label under mentor Kawakubo’s Comme des Garçons umbrella. Just one year later, the designer earned critical acclaim after presenting his womenswear collection in Paris.
URL: https://www.farfetch.com/style-guide/brands/who-is-junya-watanabe/

[A MYTH AND LEGEND, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE WONDER THAT IS JUNYA WATANABE — sabukaru]
Watanabe for a period also ran the line Junya Watanabe MAN PINK for Comme des Garcons that started in 2002 at the same time as MAN; a label that focused on translating men’s designs typically to a more female or feminine body type whilst ...
URL: https://sabukaru.online/articles/an-introduction-to-junya-watanabe-the-designer


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Comme des Garçons - Wikipedia] ---
Comme des Garçons (CDG, pronounced [kɔm de ɡaʁsɔ̃]) is a Japanese fashion label, founded by Rei Kawakubo in 1969. It is based in Paris, where its main office is located. Other than fashion, the label has expanded to include jewelry and perfume (under the brand Comme des Garçons Parfums).
The company shows its collections during Paris Fashion Week and Paris Men's Fashion Week. In 2017, it was reported that the company and its affiliates generated a revenue "of over $280 million a year".




--- [Beginner's Guide to Comme des Garçons | GOAT] ---
No content


--- [Junya Watanabe runway archives 1993-2022 - Issue 20 - System Magazine] ---
To celebrate three decades of Watanabe’s Paris womenswear shows and the continuing power of his runway visions, System selected 10 key collections and asked an all-star cast to discuss them and the designer’s inimitable work. Interviews by Rahim Attarzadeh After hiring Junya Watanabe as a pattern-cutter at Comme des Garçons in the mid-1980s, Rei Kawakubo invited the designer to establish a label under his own name in 1992. Having showed a first collection in Tokyo, he came to Europe in March 1993 to present his debut womenswear show at Paris Fashion Week. Over the ensuing 30 years, the designer has built a reputation for powerfully inventive collections that explore his cultural and sartorial obsessions – from punk to British tailoring to military wear – that he transforms into clothes that do the talking so he does not have to. To celebrate three decades of Watanabe’s Paris womenswear shows and the continuing power of his runway visions, System selected 10 key collections and asked an all-star cast to discuss them and the designer’s inimitable work: Watanabe’s Bunka Fashion College professor Dr Sanae Kosugi; Japanese fashion doyen Taque Hirakawa; early adopter and founder of i-D Terry Jones; long-time supporter and stylist Amanda Harlech; fashion critics Tim Blanks and Robin Givhan; archivist and superfan collector Rory Cole; regular collaborators hair stylist Tomihiro Kono and make-up artist Isamaya Ffrench; fellow designers Kim Jones and Simone Rocha; and, finally, Watanabe himself. Autumn/Winter 1993 ‘Origins and pattern-making’ Taque Hirakawa, fashion journalist: Junya Watanabe is one of the few truly artisanal pattern-cutting designers; he knows how to combine confidence, insecurity and reality with the intense labour of creating exactly what he wants to design. Dr Sanae Kosugi, Watanabe’s teacher at Bunka Fashion College: At Bunka, Junya would dedicate every moment he had to studying. I could immediately tell that he was someone whose mastery of technique meant he could express his design ideas in clothing. In fact, the designs and sketches that he did were so accomplished that they were always stolen and copied by other students in the class. Terry Jones, founder, i-D: From the very start Junya had a very respectful approach to creating new silhouettes that I am sure he inherited from Rei Kawakubo. You didn’t get a sense that he ever trod on her toes or tried to do what she did, though. Taque Hirakawa: Junya subtly incorporated Japanese pop and street culture into the overall brand world of Comme des Garçons. He then skilfully blended that same culture into his own vision of the world and made use of the differences between the two. The basis of how he differed from Rei Kawakubo was that he learned what Rei could not do. Aware of his own difference he made artisanal clothes under Rei Kawakubo, while creating a reality that allowed for sufficient ‘pattern-making’. The collection that I remember most and would like to see again is his debut collection for Autumn/Winter 1992, the one he presented in Tokyo before showing in Paris. Tim Blanks, editor-at-large, The Business of Fashion: I don’t know how many years he was a pattern cutter for Comme des Garçons before starting his own label, but it must have been an education in how to make the unworkable workable. Terry Jones: We started attending Junya’s shows in Paris from the very beginning, and it was immediately obvious from that very first season that Junya didn’t conform to trends. Each time he showed, we looked forward to what we were going to see, because it was very clearly something he was creating for that exact moment. Junya Watanabe: I cannot answer about how my thoughts have changed over the years, but what I can say is that my interest in making clothes has been consistently based on pattern-making. Each of my collections is based upon the pursuit of how to approach that skill in the most interesting way possible. Autumn/Winter 2000 ‘Techno Couture’ Taque Hirakawa: I’ve always thought that it was probably in 2000 that Junya started to show the world his skills to the fullest. Tim Blanks: I’ve read that he admired Pierre Cardin and Issey Miyake. If you strip out whatever the fabrics are and whatever is going on at a surface level, there is something not looked enough: Junya is a quintessential modernist. His attitude is all about combining things and hybridizing all these different elements and bringing together Japanese tradition and Western influences. I also read that he describes his work as monzukuri, which means manufacturing or making things. That is how Issey described his work, too. If he was ever asked what he did, he said that he ‘made things’. That’s what Junya does as well, he makes things. Amanda Harlech, stylist and creative consultant: Junya dissects the templates of couture: Vionnet bias, Dior New Look, New Romantic, or Galliano’s Incroyables – but with the razor blade of punk. Through this investigation of craft and couture, he has an understanding of the songlines of folklore within 21st-century culture – how everything changes and yet remains. Autumn/Winter 2003 ‘Classic clothing interpreted in my own way’ Junya Watanabe: Although I have not mastered the art of tailoring, I have deepened my interest and my knowledge by deconstructing many authentic, well-tailored garments from flea markets and antique shops that I have visited in London. Tim Blanks: What makes Junya’s work so idiosyncratic is the precision in his design. You never grow tired of the themes and references. Like the whole Edwardian reference, which is also seminal in Japanese fashion. It was a period when Japan was opening itself up and making first contact with the Europeans. That’s why you get all of the school-uniform stuff, the frock coats and the tailcoats. Junya followed on from Rei with this. He’s an absolutely brilliant storyteller. The images he gives, the images you walk away with, are just so vivid, especially the silhouettes. Robin Givhan, senior critic-at-large, The Washington Post: He reimagined a New Look jacket in this collection. His version had these provocative darts at the bust line that came to a sharp point. The jacket itself was cut from a boiled wool that was beautifully ravaged with bits of shredded fabric hanging from the lapel and the sleeves. As a critic, I thought it was a marvellous subversion of fashion history, and as a consumer, I was enamoured. I bought a black jacket from the collection and wore it to our office in New York. The security guard, trying to be helpful, started to point out dangling threads. He stopped himself mid-sentence: ‘That’s fashion, isn’t it?’ I think Junya would appreciate that double-take. Spring/Summer 2006 ‘The Mad Capsule Markets’ Tim Blanks: What I love most about his work is that it seems to be the most perfect synthesis in fashion between high and low culture. His collections are infused by a spirit that I think is consummately punk – he is fashion’s punk savant, after all – topped off with the most perfect technique. This collection in particular was all the things we love about Junya. It’s his ability to take a pre-existing sub-cult and filter it through his own internal subcultural point of view. It’s an alchemical transformation – I think Junya is a fabulous fashion alchemist, even if as time has passed in both men’s and women’s, his vocabulary has become a lot more schematized. Simone Rocha, designer: I remember seeing this show, the one with the beautiful giant mohawks – the ‘incredible sculpted-leather biker show’. It was one of the first fashion shows I ever saw in person in Paris, and it has always had a place in my heart. What I’ve felt in Junya since then has been a stronger androgynous energy and a use and embrace of characters. Robin Givhan: I’ve always been impressed by the way he’s toyed with the tenets of traditional fashion and subverted them, by his ability to take classic shapes – a trench coat, for instance – and rethink them in a myriad of ways. The one that stands out most is his fascination with punk. It’s not just a subculture in his hands. He transforms it into a standard, into a dominant sensibility, and then views the world through that lens. Autumn/Winter 2006 ‘Deconstruction and reconstruction’ Junya Watanabe: I am very interested in military wear as uniform. I have looked at a lot of military wear in flea markets and antique shops since I started making clothes. The 2006 collection was about deconstruction and reconstruction of uniforms, which I then used as decorative details on the garments. Tim Blanks: I thought this collection was quintessential. The way he incorporated traditional Japanese techniques and concepts into his clothing to then create an army-surplus or Travis Bickle look. Army surplus is another one of the things he has gone back to over the years. The consistency of his inspirations suggests that it might be easy to form a profile of Junya. Even knowing very little about his actual life, you have more of a sense of him as a human being than you do with some of his peers. One of the things with Junya is that you just know him without knowing him as a person. You love him as a person just from looking at what he does. Rory Cole, archivist, collector and founder of Junya Watanabe World: Looking back at Watanabe-san’s creations from all seasons, one begins to understand the physical construction and how his work processes have evolved and adapted over time. I find his works so intriguing because of his ability to take the ordinary and recognizable and reinterpret and reinvent them in a way that creates a universe around the ‘theme’ itself for each collection. Kim Jones, creative director of Dior menswear and Fendi womenswear: Junya seems timeless to me, almost ageless. Someone who doesn’t know Junya would not be able to know his age. His timelessness is his beauty. Spring/Summer 2011 ‘Tokyo Doll’ Junya Watanabe: It is a process of digging into one small theme and making it stronger. Terry Jones: I think Rei was inspired by Sonia Rykiel and how certain themes ran through her collections – all those stripes and sailors’ outfits – and I think it is similar for Junya. For him, it was all linked to the explosion of punk and the New Romantics. Tim Blanks: The Breton stripes with sailors and anchors is another theme that comes back a lot. Those kinds of single-minded collections, like this one, those that started from a very early defined point and then spun off into Junya-land were the most memorable. I think that the way he chooses his references is very personal. At no point in his creative process does he sit down and say, ‘This will really strike a chord this season.’ There is a sort of randomness to it. It’s quite audacious in a way. Rory Cole: I am not saying every season is the most experimental and worked on, yet as they come and go, his ability to employ a working style and practice of such variety vastly outweighs any notion of repetition. Spring/Summer 2015 ‘Graphic Marching’ Terry Jones: Junya’s collaborations with the hair stylists, wig makers, and make-up artists have played an incredibly important role in making his shows as unique and memorable as they have been. Junya Watanabe: The hair is designed to make the clothes look as strong as possible. I usually start to develop the image one month before the show and before communicating with the hair designer. Tomihiro Kono, hair stylist and wig designer: The way we’ve worked together has been unique. He never tells me the theme of a show, doesn’t show me a sketch or a dress – or even a piece of fabric. So I have to come up with my own idea – very random in the beginning – and propose many designs until Junya says yes. That process of collaboration always makes the outcome more interesting and different. I’ve created mainly graphic, geometric and mathematical designs of head props for Junya Watanabe. For this particular show, I was trying to create something that we’d never seen before and as I had never created anything flat like that, it was a big challenge. The concept of the head prop was a variation of a bob hairstyle but floating in the air. Junya didn’t show me what kind of dresses he was making, so it was very impressive to see all the results in Paris when the clothes and head props matched perfectly together. Hair and make-up have always added a significant part to his creative vision, including the versatility of characters. Isamaya Ffrench, make-up artist: This was the first show I ever did with Junya and the most memorable. I stuck pieces of clear Sellotape across red lipstick, which created a 2-D lip effect because it flattened the light in a way where you saw the prints of the lips coming through the lipstick. It felt like a radical moment creating something unusual with very simple methods. I always look forward to receiving his brief a few weeks before each show, wondering where he will take us next. I’m never going to do natural skin with him. It’s also incredibly stimulating to look at a niche source of inspiration, whether that’s a specific time and place, a style, or the psychology of a character, but to always find a new way to interpret it. It has to be seen through another lens – otherwise, how can you create something new? Autumn/Winter 2016 ‘Geometries and grace notes’ Amanda Harlech: He looks at the mathematics of fashion – its geometries and grace notes – and changes the beat, dissecting them and collaging them into new configurations that sing to us. Junya Watanabe: As I do not work based on academic ideas, I guess it is just a coincidence if this is seen in my work. Tomihiro Kono: It’s always very challenging working with Junya – and I mean that in a positive way – because it makes me expand in so many different directions. I always have to come up with a hair or wig design that suits the clothes, but the amazing thing, and I think the most important part about the way we work together, is that Junya never shows me the collection. It’s more about a feeling between us, an energy, working in silence. It’s always very special. Rory Cole: It almost feels in some regards like he is creating the full costume cast for a cinematic film. His collections have such a unique existence and interpretation that each is a separate planet in the overarching solar system of Watanabe-san. Tim Blanks: Junya can unleash the dogs and the demons in his clothes, but they are so beautifully realized that the chaos is controlled. Spring/Summer 2017 ‘Spontaneous punk creativity’ Junya Watanabe: I do not think deeply about the meaning of the word ‘punk’. I do not make clothes in rebellion against anything. Punk is now just an approach in fashion terms. I’m not interested in whether my creations are radical or not. Amanda Harlech: Subversion, subculture and punk is vital to Junya. His time spent in Berlin over the years – drawn to the city’s appetite for subculture – has never left him, just as my punk reflex to couture is to wear it with trainers or a huge sweater. Isamaya Ffrench: I love the tension between the deep intellectual process and the total spontaneous punk creativity behind all his collections, including this one. He’s fully involved in all aspects of his craft. When I set up my kit and try different looks during a make-up test, he’s in the corner, carefully observing everything for the whole time. No other designer does that. When I ask if he likes what I just did, he asks me to explain the look, what was on my mind, and we discuss the theme. Then he tells me what he likes and doesn’t like, and we try more things. He doesn’t tell me what to do; he’s very respectful. It’s crucial to him to see the characters he had in mind come to life to make sure they’re perfectly aligned with his clothes; that’s what makes the difference. Tim Blanks: I think it’s very much in the vein of making a new cult out of old cults. It’s one of things I find most interesting in fashion – when you can create a fashion cult from something else. Kim Jones: There’s always something so familiar, yet so modern and new, which is very hard to carry out. I love that youthful spirit of Junya and his unexpected approach. Autumn/Winter 2021 ‘Immortal Rock Spirit’ Tim Blanks: To make a band T-shirt become the most desirable item of clothing you have ever seen, transforming it into something as chic and extravagant as haute couture is classic Junya. Rory Cole: Watanabe-san has this ability to transform ‘dumb clothes’, as he puts it, into magnificent and challenging wonders of adornment. He has declared that he sees his job as being but a worker, which partly explains his ability to produce incredibly varied seasons as often as he does. Tim Blanks: Issey Miyake deliberately set out to find a traditional Japanese technique that could rival jeans; Junya’s version is patchwork, which is boro, that really traditional Japanese philosophy of the value of the worn and the used, the beauty of things that are mended. There is a lot of that in his use of patchwork. It is one of his most graphic hybrids of East and West. If Miyake was trying to find something post-denim, Junya kind of takes it back to its roots and then creates a new hybrid out of that. He is the designer who is probably most associated with patchwork. Amanda Harlech: It’s a boro reverence of the past and a way of holding on to an emotional memory. The integrity of his searching – origami, boro, and his fascination with the reasoning behind construction, spliced with colour and texture – is the equivalent of a musician’s mathematical understanding of the rhythm of life. Like watching a snowflake react to both Mozart and heavy metal, Junya reveals the way each molecule of our being responds to the time we are living through, with patchwork as a leitmotif. Jamie Hawkesworth, photographer: I had dinner with Junya in Tokyo a few years ago after taking his portrait, and he asked me if I liked the food. I said, ‘It’s nice, but I prefer a cheese-and-pickle sandwich.’ The next day I was hanging a show and a cheese-and-pickle sandwich arrived from Junya. We have been friends ever since. Simone Rocha: Ultimately, what I love in his work is his commitment to creativity. Junya Watanabe: While I am seen as a creator in the eyes of the world, I am not using design to express myself.


--- [Who is Junya Watanabe? Everything you need to know about the Japanese Designer] ---
WORDS BY JOSEPH FURNESS On 22nd July 2021, one Mr Kanye West threw a listening party for his latest album, Donda, at the Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia. The rapper wore a skin-colored mask over his entire face, a blood-red Yeezy x Gap get-up (seemingly inspired by cult-classic anime Akira) and a pair of yet-to-be-released adidas Yeezy 1020v boots. The music played, the crowd went wild and millions worldwide streamed the event on Apple Music. And once the event was over, many viewers took to the internet to ask a very unexpected question – Who is Junya Watanabe? Allow us to explain. One of Donda’s earliest tracks – literally titled Junya (ft. Playboi Carti) – centres around the Japanese designer that West manifestly has a fondness for. Within the track, the rapper seemingly connotes the idea that wearing the luxe label is a symbol of status; only the savviest mondains are in the know about Watanabe. Here, we provide insight into the designer and his namesake label, and spotlight sought-after Junya Watanabe pieces available on FARFETCH. Who is Junya Watanabe? Junya Watanabe is a Japanese fashion designer known for his advanced approach to design and avant-garde aesthetic and for being the protegé of Comme des Garçons founder, Rei Kawakubo. Born in 1961 in Fukushima, Japan, Watanabe has always pursued a career in fashion. After graduating from Tokyo’s Bunka Fashion College in 1984, the aspiring designer was hired as an apprentice pattern-maker at Comme des Garçons. By 1987, Watanabe had cut his teeth and was appointed the chief designer of CDG’s Tricot knitwear line. During the early 90s – 1992, to be precise – Junya Watanabe decided it was time to set up a namesake label under mentor Kawakubo’s Comme des Garçons umbrella. Just one year later, the designer earned critical acclaim after presenting his womenswear collection in Paris. By the new millennium, Watanabe’s eponymous label was a major player in the womenswear field, and the designer felt it was time to branch out into menswear. Junya Watanabe MAN launched in 2001 under the aforementioned CDG umbrella, and the designer has consistently helmed both brands ever since. How to Pronounce Junya Watanabe Junya Watanabe is pronounced ‘joon'ya wa'ta'na'bey’. Junya is a word that roughly translates to ‘pure’ or ‘purity’. Watanabe is the fifth most common surname and translates to ‘ferryside’. Junya Watanabe Junya Watanabe is a space for the designer to bring his forward-thinking ideas to life. Unexpected cuts and asymmetrical silhouettes are enhanced with sultry leather, patchwork designs, punchy denim embellishments and other off the wall details and materials. From each season, one can expect edgy aesthetics to amalgamate with the craftsmanship of haute couture. Junya Watanabe MAN Junya Watanabe MAN is primarily concerned with creating simple yet intricately detailed apparel that’s smart, functional and timeless. The designer’s 20-year-old label seeks inspiration from different facets of menswear – from traditional military uniforms to late 20th-century workwear – to create pieces to be worn ad infinitum; in short, they’re the kind of garms you’ll be passing down to your children and your children’s children. Junya Watanabe Collaborations Junya Watanabe MAN x New Balance Circa 2019, New Balance made a huge comeback – ever since, the brand has been collaborating with the hottest brands on the planet, including Junya Watanabe MAN. The Junya Watanabe MAN x New Balance collection takes frill-free models from the sneaker brand’s back catalogue and breathes new life into them using premium materials, a suave color palette and text graphics. Junya Watanabe MAN x Levi’s Junya Watanabe’s affinity for denim is well documented, thus, the Junya Watanabe MAN x Levi’s collaboration is one of the most organic fashion collabs of the 21st Century. Over the past few years, the Japanese designer has transformed a variety of Levi’s silhouettes into luxe pieces to appeal to his staunch customer base. Key pieces to come from the collab thus far include pairs of patchwork-patterned denim jeans, paint-splattered denim jackets and Southern America-inspired flannel overshirts. Junya Watanabe MAN x Canada Goose During the late 2010s, Junya Watanabe teamed up with legendary outwear brand Canada Goose to create a collection of winter-ready coats and jackets. Watanabe took some of the brand’s most popular pieces and added practical adornments and intricate details to create looks that appeal to both brands’ cult followers. Junya Watanabe MAN x Carhartt Junya Watanabe MAN is largely concerned with converting classical workwear conventions into contemporary wear; bearing this in mind, it seems fitting for the brand to work alongside stalwart workwear brand Carhartt. The Junya Watanabe MAN x Carhartt collaboration merges the codes of the two brands to create industrial looks for the modish metropolitan gentleman. Where else could you find a well-groomed wool jacket offset by rough and ready canvas panelling? To our knowledge, nowhere. Junya Watanabe: Wishlist Pieces Junya Watanabe Spike-Stud Chain Necklace The Junya Watanabe spike-stud chain necklace is edgy and rebellious: it’s the perfect accessory for the contemporary glam rocker. Yes, Miley Cyrus, we’re looking at you. Junya Watanabe Patchwork Straight Leg Jeans Patchwork jeans are the quintessential Junya Watanabe piece. This pair, in particular, is adorned with three carefully placed patches that add character to the simple silhouette. Junya Watanabe Sequin-Embellished Shirt Jacket The Junya Watanabe sequin-embellished shirt jacket makes a case for the ‘more is more’ aphorism. The Japanese designer has revitalized the classic buttoned shirt jacket with black sequin embellishments that adds a touch of glitz to any ensemble. Junya Watanabe MAN Graphic Print Wool Blazer Enigmatic prints are of supreme importance to Junya Watanabe and his brands. For example, this graphic print wool blazer from Junya Watanabe MAN is plastered with Basquiat-esque designs that look as though they’ve come straight from the designer’s imagination. Junya Watanabe MAN Paint Splatter Jeans Junya Watanabe MAN specializes in creating personality pieces that are conspicuous but never obnoxious – take these paint splatter jeans, for instance. Loose and light in color, these trousers are sure to add a little flavour to your denim collection. Junya Watanabe MAN Long Sleeve Patchwork Jumper You simply can’t go wrong with the Junya Watanabe MAN long sleeve patchwork jumper; the 100% wool knit is distinguished by its homestyle patchwork print that’s sure to catch the eye of style mavens – especially CDG superfans.


--- [A MYTH AND LEGEND, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE WONDER THAT IS JUNYA WATANABE — sabukaru] ---
A MYTH AND LEGEND, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE WONDER THAT IS JUNYA WATANABE This is not an interview, nor is this an advertisement. This is an open piece of written exploration of the omnipotence that Junya Watanabe has cemented for himself in the world of fashion since his professional working capacity began; In Tokyo, 1984. Whilst being a juggernaut in the fashion industry, revered for challenging staple designs, silhouettes and body feasible adornments, he remains one of, if not THE most enigmatic designer producing regular collections today. The interviews he has given or had dictated and published can be counted on one pair of hands. His public appearances can be counted on the same pair of hands, albeit in the early days he would rarely take the accustomed bow following the last model to walk the catwalk. When giving details on his catwalk shows prior to the event he often uses single words or small combinations affording the vaguest and widest scope of wonder from the lucky numbers that find themselves in Paris on these monumental days. What will they be seeing? None present will know until the models file down the runway under the specially constructed Watanabe vision. Four times a year. Noted in two pieces written about him, his mother’s “made-to-order” store could be a main stimulus for his interests originally; with Cardin and Miyake being his two notable attractions in designer - both experimenting with cutting edge fabrics, construction processes and design practices. Junya Watanabe graduates Bunka Fashion College and is drafted into the Comme des Garcons universe by Rei Kawakubo to be a pattern cutter and pattern maker across labels. Working on the female line, Tricot, as a Chief Designer from 1987 he went to work on Homme as the Chief Designer and then subsequently set up his own namesake label in 1992 under the umbrella of CDG LTD; Junya Watanabe for Comme des Garcons, debuting in Tokyo for Fall Winter of 1992 and then the regularshowing in Paris began in 1993; with his namesake line for a male demographic; Junya Watanabe MAN for Comme des Garcons debuting Spring Summer 2002 in Paris. Dissimilar to other designers he himself handpicks the collaborator brands, items, companies and cultural reference that are seen to be peppered throughout his collections, albeit with his MAN line heading up branded and notable side of collaboration strongly; working with companies for their textiles, for their cultural heritage, their unique processes or for the finishing edges of sheer investment Watanabe has in rounding his works together under an idea. LEVI’S for example has been working with and providing Watanabe with denim as well as his own base models since MAN started. Brands like Carhartt, Gore-Tex and New Balance can be seen as regular collection collaborators to note a few. Working in a scientific and methodical way, Watanabe demonstrates his abnormality to his peers by choosing to foreground a focus on the reality and actuality of design and content. The Bauhaus masters asserted a design philosophy of 'form follows function' which centralized within their art and movement a focus to not be drawn away by worrying about a dogmatic philosophy that would file all work as external representation by interpretation. In retrospective jump from this, Junya's designs are like a turbulent slalom that shakes and bumps his designs and processes until they are far from where he would ever want to be; fitting in? His position as a high modernist, or someone who rejects the appealing preferential and prejudicial elements of designs and constructions; allows him to create in a way that draws out the wearer or the viewers reason to question their own preconceived ideas of what it is to adorn or dress, in this modern world. It’s noted that he actively tries to keep his purity of design by taking little-to-no interest in works by fellow designers across the globe; using his own existence, interests and understandings to inform his vision. When viewing each of his seasons and releases on a comparable field with other designers of that same season there is almost next to no correlation in theme or physical subject matter; Watanabe has a confidence in his output that carries through to the actuality of the adornment of said items. Whether he is working on the reconstruction of a pre-existing staple design, the experimentation of fabrics and textiles or even testing practices and methods that have not been utilized or appropriated before he focuses on the actual. Physical tessellation, geometrical working, three-dimensional and origami constructs are some of the finest examples of working within a specialist field outside of fashion to then translate back into design (Most variated display would be Fall Winter 2015). Scientific and laboratory research style procedures followed to ensure items retain their integrity when moving from one area of art to the wearable side. Honeycomb is a shape and structure that has been utilized to provide volume and fluid movement yet density of structure, whilst allowing to take the shape of an ethereal or magical entity, a Will-O-Wisp (Spring Summer 2000). In a 2002 TV documentary on Rei Kawakubo and Comme des Garcons, Watanabe was interviewed on screen and is quoted in translation as saying, This is the first concrete instance that Watanabe confirms and loosely explains a working ethos, albeit incredibly loose and vague in actual working detail, it in part would only reflect the character of the man himself. Enigmatic yet refined and precise. It’s a statement that even now still rings true; his MAN designs are obtuse in their difference of fundamental construction and exude overt self-gratification to the wearer, yet they can in most instances be described as the perfect item for whatever the function in question is. Fishing shirts with such detail, specific and extra functionality that they are at match for the actual use, sole function brand equivalents. It can be noted that whilst a lot of collections have clear visual themes and stimuli, many items can be utilized across areas of wear or use. So in many ways, the utilitarianism of the designs he creates have abstractions of 20th constructivism within. The visible strapping, attachments, clipping, reinforced seams, panel-construction, layering, functional-detailing, metal, plastics and non-textile detail and elements and accompaniments; everything is made in a way for the easiest and most perfect wear. Allowing us to make vivid connection to the architectural elements he utilizes. Whilst it may be argued by off-the-deep-endfashion aficionados that Watanabe’s physical design work does not grace thought or bearing to the world of haute-couture and the gravitas of industry it holds within a wider trickle down fashion world; he has never made clear his driven intentions of design motivation besides the actuality of him working as designer to design. It is his hard working day job. Through viewing one can see there is a clear difference in his actual design motivations for his mainline Ladies and mainline MAN collections; so when also considering the ageing general understanding that it is popular for females to play with visceral style and image; whilst males are more likely to adorn within the comfort of their pre-understood tribes or ‘ways of dressing’, it is like most other brands, semi gender-binary. Watanabe for a period also ran the line Junya Watanabe MAN PINK for Comme des Garcons that started in 2002 at the same time as MAN; a label that focused on translating men’s designs typically to a more female or feminine body type whilst incorporating actual designs for ladies such as dresses, skirts, corsets and more. By nature, items sizing and fitting can be on the smaller or more fitted side if being worn out of demographic intention. With the seasonal speculation around what may or may not be seen each mainline show, it could be thought that Watanabe really does just love designing and has found his true calling in it; the cryptic one-word, or one-line teasers never leading the audience mind to what is ultimately displayed before them. Almost like a renaissance artist working behind closed doors for extended periods in the fear their work would be seen and copied by lesser counterparts, only to reveal their latest under-wraps project to stun and wow the audience it’s targeting. Watanabe has found innate talent in the adaptation of traditionally valued and understood garments and styles whereby he can take singular or eclectic elements to run through his mental and physical deconstruction, reconstruction and design processes bringing a new outlook on styles people may be less familiar in wearing or less accepting in a general sense when considered in comparison to other iterations of the same style or image. Culturally pre-existing and understood themes have less focus on the originally connoted elements; the re-workings and creations draw more. Regarded as one of the pioneers and most successful or famous Techno-Fashion designers, collections like the Fall Winter 1995 and the Spring Summer AND Fall Winter 1997 women’s collections display in design, an almost utopian vision of modern adornment; and ultimately the famed Spring Summer 2000 collection, with interactions of and the utilization of water as rain, changing models wearing multi-functional technologically advanced fabrics and designs; Watanabe focuses some attentions to the problem solving of the everyday issue and desire; some for innovations and the actual forwarding of the affordability’s taken advantage of in daily life. Designs that aim to make one’s life easier and elevated, like being breathable or waterproof when needed, or when an action is being undertaken that requires specific detail, like climbing or motorsports. In a way Watanabe offers retrospective connotations to a Futurist vision of the world, with clothing that can work with the human body in modern ways; temperature regulations, auto-tension and weave flexibility, administering of chemical and compounds or health managements amongst many other things. Usually confined to film or television costume, of a modern world with flying cars, alien contacts and superpower-like health and care abilities; Watanabe designed through a period which was perfect for the boom and undergo of change and experimentation he is so regarded for. In a way such design and garb can be seen as reference to historic dress, by setting oneself into the future thus looking to the present or to the actual future. Similar yet dissimilar to the work of Thorogood or Chalayan in so far as Watanabe ultimately keeps the end product as actual wearable clothing in a relative sense of how people historically would adorn themselves. It isn’t practical to wear a dress than becomes a table when you take it off, it’s art design over fashion design. Things that may be or should be, are only pertained as ideas until they are physically played with and created by Watanabe. Reference in detail through development of process, specific item detail function and use help ensure a remarkable familiar yet drastically different outlook when viewed or worn. In 2016 he developed, designed and released in incredibly limited quantities, a trench coat with solar-paneling installed to the front and back panels, with a power pack, wiring and the ability to charge devices on-the-go. We can only hope to see more inclusion of actual technology within items and pieces Watanabe produces; although dissimilar to I-Wear and Starlabs work in 1999-2000 with Walter Van Beirendonck, in its actual practical daily use yet still exploring the same ideas of functional ease and maximization of convenience to daily life. With flourishes and nods-of-the-head to chicer eras, like modern grandeur elegance of the 1940s, covered with alternate materials, shapes, reconstructed skirt suits, frock coats, shaped veils, dresses, over-shirts and blouses; in the Fall Winter 1999 collection; providing a darker, moodier and abstract take on the typical dainty upper-class modern woman style. In a way the materials and design difference reflect the times of actual change in rights and acceptance of existence since the un-reworked style was conceived; the changes in rights, standards of adornment, expectance of mental or physical stability and state and societal position or role. Abstraction is played with and favored in womenswear more so than the functionality and the wearability. He takes elements of methodical and research based practices like architecture, science, engineering and mathematics to work his way through countless non-working designs until the perfect or the purpose is reached. Weighted structuring and balance of movements, inter-panel or constructional interactions, change in naturally expected forces impacts on garment appearance, shape and movement to name a few things are clear indications of cross-field research and working. But as an enigmatic yet world-famous designer, he must find the time, ability and attraction to explore, research, meet others and travel to truly widen and refine his actual skillset and abilities. His Spring Summer 2015 MAN collection focuses on the use of denims and the understanding of Boro and patch working, dyeing and overdyeing amongst other traditional or time testament Japanese textile practices. Panelling on items to infer the ideas of a hard-working and hard wearing man, with stitch work and the use of many indigos reinforcing the practical work nature of the country and textile. The patterning used not only harks back and pays homage to the highest of society, of which Japan was known for to the West being a closed nation; but it seems to want to amalgamate all areas of Japanese life and all types of the Japanese person. A collection that truly praises his home country and its history, Japan. It is unclear what truly underpins Watanabe’s processes; could it be the lifelong interest and passion within other fields that he translates into his own working field? Could it be the sheer fact of working environment itself, that he works under Comme des Garcons and by that fact has status and power, and can work as he pleases? It is just his job after all. One thing that is clear is that in part, Watanabe’s work and design is a byproduct of a super-boom in technological and societal understandings and outlooks that revolutionized the ways in which people lived their day-to-day existences. The designs could be seen as a way to almost supercharge living nostalgia by offering iconic (semi-)recognizable pieces and designs that remove the wearer from a sense of normality by foregrounding how much better, how much more practical, elegant, ultimately different things can be whilst still keeping a sense of authenticity. You want to look like a mid-late 20thcentury alpine skier? An American businessman? A sports loving workman? A lady of the manor? A ballerina? A biker? All of these can be done. Whilst experimenting innately with design and creation, he still manages to retain a level of recognition, understanding and palatability; offering things that are within the physical comprehensions and tastes of the audience that are so in love with the content produced. The ease of changing wearable styles is one of the traits Watanabe has tuned so perfectly. Even though many pieces seem unwearable for everyday adornment; it is merely in the outward appearance that lays the foundation for such thought. In hand even some items may be confusing or misleading as to how they are actually put on, but once adorned the fit, movement, weights and shapes are always perfect for the specific piece in question. You wouldn’t exactly go out in something made of silk, organza and tissue in the rain and wind but for function and purpose the items have more consideration to how they interact with the body than many other of his design peers. Misconceptions that Japanese designer clothing always runs smaller and is ill fitting for people in the west is absurd and widely held, much to the dismay of the audience who believes it and excludes themselves from buying into such design. There are pieces from all seasons of the mainline women’s label that can fit and look exemplary on the male body for example, regardless of supposed size or gendering; if it fits, it fits. Ultimately the consumers know how they interact with the designer and as such more often than not, very specific collections and items can be seen far more frequently both being worn or for sale, than items of collections less covered by modern, hype driven media. In essence, Junya Watanabe is a master in his field of work who from display of enigmatic behaviors of definition between working life and personal life, demonstrates that not only should one define one’s life; but they should seek to define their existence and hone their focus on the instant at hand. Whether Junya is exploring techniques of architectural conversion, physics of design and form or configuring the key components of a working garment, he is working; on his brand, on his craft, on his knowledge. And that really helps keep him out of the light. About the author: Rory Cole is a Uk-based Japanese Design Archivist, Fashion Designer and Charity Man; collecting Junya Watanabe, Issey Miyake, Comme des Garcons and Yohji Yamamoto, amongst other designers like Final Home and Kansai Yamamoto. SABUKARU be yet another string to his bow having content with other large international publications.
