=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Who performed at the 2018 World Cup? Russian opera star Aida Garifullina ...]
Jun 15, 2018 · Russian soprano Aida Garifullina duetted with popstar Robbie Williams at the Opening Ceremony of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Moscow, on Thursday 14 June. Aida and Robbie duetted on Robbie's song 'Angels', just half an hour before the start of the first match between Russia and Saudi Arabia at 6pm local time.
URL: https://www.classicfm.com/music-news/world-cup-opening-ceremony-performers/

[Angels (Robbie Williams song) - Wikipedia]
" Angels " is a song by the English singer Robbie Williams. It was included on Williams's debut solo album, Life thru a Lens (1997), and released as a single on 1 December 1997 by Chrysalis.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angels_(Robbie_Williams_song)

[The opening ceremony of the 2018 World Cup - Al Jazeera]
Jun 14, 2018 · Russia declared the football World Cup open on Thursday at an understated ceremony in Moscow headlined by British pop star Robbie Williams and Russian soprano Aida Garifullina.
URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/gallery/2018/6/14/the-opening-ceremony-of-the-2018-world-cup/

[Robbie Williams - Angels ft. Aida Garifullina (HQ) - Live at Moscow 2018]
Jul 1, 2018 · The opening ceremony took place at Moscow's Luzhniki Stadium, with Take That singer Robbie Williams the main performer.
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_NTX_wGEzDo

[Angels by Robbie Williams - Songfacts]
Robbie Williams performed a duet version of this song with Russian soprano Aida Garifullina at the 2018 FIFA World Cup opening ceremony held at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow, Russia. He also sang " Let Me Entertain You," "Feel" and "Rock DJ" but he provoked an angry action on social media by flipping the bird at the camera during his performance of the latter song.
URL: https://www.songfacts.com/facts/robbie-williams/angels


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Who performed at the 2018 World Cup? Russian opera star Aida Garifullina ...] ---
Who performed at the 2018 World Cup? Russian opera star Aida Garifullina and Robbie Williams 15 June 2018, 12:16 | Updated: 15 June 2018, 12:27 Russian soprano Aida Garifullina duetted with popstar Robbie Williams at the Opening Ceremony of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Moscow, on Thursday 14 June. Aida and Robbie duetted on Robbie's song 'Angels', just half an hour before the start of the first match between Russia and Saudi Arabia at 6pm local time. Of the performance, Aida told the Press Association: “[After the performance] I thanked him for this amazing journey and he said: ‘We should do something in the future together, we should do some songs together in the future.’” She added that she didn't know what they would sing together. “It doesn’t matter actually what because he’s an amazing artist and I enjoyed every moment working with him, talking to him, performing with him.” With 2 Legends 😍🌟🌟🌟#worldcup pic.twitter.com/4e8l4MsBkU — Aida Garifullina (@a_garifullina) June 14, 2018 Who else performed at the World Cup? Aida also performed at the Red Square Gala Concert in Moscow the day before, alongside a host of famous names from the world of opera, including Anna Netrebko, Plácido Domingo and Juan Diego Flórez. The celebratory performance was broadcast on Wednesday 13 June, in which Aida performed the title track from her award-winning debut album ‘Je veux vivre’, as well as a duet with Juan Diego Flórez from Verdi’s Rigoletto. Who is Aida Garifullina? Aida Garifullina is a young Russian soprano, born in 1987 in Kazan, the capital of the Republic of Tatarstan. She is best known for singing her signature aria 'Je veux vivre' from Gounod's Roméo et Juliette. Aida studied with the renowned tenor Siegfried Jerusalem in Nuremberg, before making her debut at the Mariinsky Theatre in January 2013. The Financial Times described her as a “major new talent”. Aida had her first big break that year, when she won Plácido Domingo’s Operalia competition. Since then, she has performed in some of the world’s most impressive opera houses, including Vienna State Opera (where she is a regular performer) and Wigmore Hall. Aida has duetted with some of the greatest opera stars, including Plácido Domingo and Andrea Bocelli, as well as appearing in the 2016 film Florence Foster Jenkins with Meryl Streep. She's also one of today’s most popular Instagram opera stars, with 450,000 followers. To coincide with her World Cup performances, Aida has released a new three-track digital EP with Decca Classics called Midnight in Moscow, which is available now.


--- [Angels (Robbie Williams song) - Wikipedia] ---
"Angels" is a song by the English singer Robbie Williams. It was included on Williams's debut solo album, Life thru a Lens (1997), and released as a single on 1 December 1997 by Chrysalis. It was produced by Guy Chambers and Steve Power.
The Irish singer-songwriter Ray Heffernan asserts that he wrote the first version of "Angels" in 1996 and finished it with Williams. Williams confirmed that he recorded a demo with Heffernan but said he rewrote it significantly with Chambers. To avoid a lawsuit, Williams bought the song rights from Heffernan before it was released. He has never confirmed that Heffernan wrote it.
"Angels" reached number four on the UK singles chart and number 53 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart. As of 2014, it had sold more than 1.16 million copies in the UK. It won the 1999 Ivor Novello Award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically and was voted the best song of the previous 25 years at the 2005 Brit Awards. In 2005, Britons voted it the song they most wanted played at their funeral. 
"Angels" has been covered by artists including Jessica Simpson, David Archuleta, Beverley Knight, All Angels, Declan Galbraith and Josh Groban. It was recorded in Spanish (as "Ángel") by the Mexican singers Yuridia and Marco Moré, in Italian (as "Un Angelo") by Patrizio Buanne and in Brazilian Portuguese (as "Um Anjo") by KLB. Williams also recorded a Spanish version.


--- [The opening ceremony of the 2018 World Cup - Al Jazeera] ---
In Pictures The opening ceremony of the 2018 World Cup Russia was awarded the 2018 event by FIFA in 2010. Russia declared the football World Cup open on Thursday at an understated ceremony in Moscow headlined by British pop star Robbie Williams and Russian soprano Aida Garifullina. The 15-minute show produced by Russia’s state Channel One broke from World Cup tradition, focusing on musical acts including a performance of Pyotr Tchaikovsky in front of full stands at the capital’s main Luzhniki stadium. Spanish footballer Iker Casillas and Russian supermodel and philanthropist Natalia Vodianova brought the World Cup trophy onto the pitch in a Louis Vuitton travel case. Robbie Williams performed hits, Let Me Entertain You and Rock DJ, accompanied by dancers and freestylers. He was joined in a duet by Garifullina, a soloist from the Vienna State Opera, who entered the pitch on a firebird, singing Williams’ hit song Angels. The opening ceremony followed by a match between the host team and Saudi Arabia.


--- [Robbie Williams - Angels ft. Aida Garifullina (HQ) - Live at Moscow 2018] ---
About Press Copyright Contact us Creators Advertise Developers Terms Privacy Policy & Safety How YouTube works Test new features © 2026 Google LLC


--- [Angels by Robbie Williams - Songfacts] ---
No content
