=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[FPT University - Wikipedia]
FPT University is a member of FPT Group and has campuses in Hanoi (main), Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Can Tho and Quy Nhon (in progress). When founded in 2006, Associate Professor Truong Gia Binh, FPT Corp chairman of management board, was in charge of FPT University chairman, while Dr.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FPT_University

[Nationwide Growth: FPT University’s Journey to Five Campuses – FPT University]
FPT University was established on September 8, 2006, under Decision No. 208/2006/QĐ-TTg by the Prime Minister. At that time, with the mission of opening FPT private university to provide technology human resources for FPT Corporation and the nation, the FPTU Construction Department was established according to the proposal.
URL: https://daihoc.fpt.edu.vn/en/facilities/nationwide-growth-fpt-universitys-journey-to-five-campuses/

[FPT Corporation explained]
FPT has been put into operation under the model of a joint stock company since 2002. On September 8, 2006, the FPT University was founded under FPT, becoming the first licensed cooperate university.
URL: https://everything.explained.today/FPT_Corporation/

[Cao Minh Chau - Vu Gia Tien - History - Google Sites]
🔶 Founding FPT University was established in 2006 by FPT Corporation to address the demand for high-quality IT professionals.
URL: https://sites.google.com/vnu.edu.vn/fptuniversity/history

[FPT University | World University Rankings | THE]
FPT University was established in 2006 and is located in Vietnam across five campuses. There are five campuses across which students can choose to study a wide range of courses in business, technology, communication and hospitality, including business administration, multimedia communication, hotel management, and Korean.
URL: https://www.timeshighereducation.com/world-university-rankings/fpt-university


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [FPT University - Wikipedia] ---
FPT University is a private university in Vietnam. FPT University is a member of FPT Group and has campuses in Hanoi (main), Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Can Tho and Quy Nhon (in progress).


--- [Nationwide Growth: FPT University’s Journey to Five Campuses – FPT University] ---
This series covers the Construction Department of FPT University (FPTU) and their mission to transform and build five FPTU campuses from the North to the South of Vietnam.Let’s see how they turned barren, deserted lands with no inhabitants into beautiful, green campuses. Part 1: Finding Land for the School FPT University was established on September 8, 2006, under Decision No. 208/2006/QĐ-TTg by the Prime Minister. At that time, with the mission of opening FPT private university to provide technology human resources for FPT Corporation and the nation, the FPTU Construction Department was established according to the proposal. We, along with the leadership of FPT Education, started looking for land to build the school. The first campus of FPT University, FPT University Hanoi, is located at Hoa Lac Hi-Tech Park, Km29 Thang Long Boulevard, Thach That District, Hanoi, about 30-35 km from the city center. This is a plot of land designated for a future industrial park of Hanoi city. Previously, the area had a rather sparse population. Through various stages of Hanoi’s historical development, there were once villages and buildings here. FPT University, which trains future technology engineers, along with companies in the FPT Corporation, decided to build their first campus here. In the following years, many large corporations came to Hoa Lac Hi-Tech Park to invest in factories and infrastructure. FPT University has become a beautiful green campus today through efforts in designing for the future, calculating green space areas, and connecting buildings and water bodies. In Ho Chi Minh City, the leadership and construction team of FPT Education focused on development projects in the eastern part of the city, namely District 9 and the current high-tech park. This area previously had sparsely populated villages and houses. Since 2012, the land was included in the plan for Ho Chi Minh City’s High-Tech Development Zone. Today, this land is part of Thu Duc City. The land chosen to build the FPT University Da Nang campus was a sandy area where fishing communities once built houses but later moved away. The land, located in the southern part of Da Nang city, adjacent to Quang Ngai province, became designated for the city’s educational development. Part 2: Green Buildings Today, FPT University has five campuses along Vietnam from North to South, including Hanoi, Da Nang, Quy Nhon, Ho Chi Minh City, and Can Tho. All FPT University campuses have unique designs and landscapes, emphasizing green architecture. When you step into FPT University Hanoi, you will be immediately attracted by the green space around. The building, shaped like a dragon, rises amidst the greenery. With an impressive and unique hollow block design, the Administrative Building of FPT University, with 7 floors and a total usable area of 11,065 m2, has been highly appreciated and awarded at the 42nd World Architecture Awards (source). The FPT University Ho Chi Minh City campus is located in the HCM City Hi-Tech Park. It sits on a 22,500-square-meter plot among the skyscrapers of Ho Chi Minh City, southern Vietnam. FPT University Da Nang is built on an area of 5.1 hectares. The dynamic and unique design in the famous central Vietnamese city is inspired by stacked books. All designs we choose are aimed at providing teachers and students with the greenest and most memorable teaching and learning environment. Located at 600 Nguyen Van Cu (extended), An Binh Ward, Ninh Kieu District, Can Tho City, FPT Can Tho campus has become an architectural highlight in the Mekong Delta, accommodating over 5,000 students. Part 3: The Dream of the Largest Artificial Intelligence Center in Vietnam on Thi Nai Lagoon Near Quy Nhon Bay Quy Nhon is a small, sparsely populated city in Binh Dinh province. With the expectation of turning this city into the largest AI center in Vietnam, FPT Corporation established the fifth FPT University campus. We chose to build the FPTU Quy Nhon campus right on the Thi Nai Lagoon, next to the seaport of Quy Nhon Bay. This is an area that the city has reclaimed and re-planned to become the largest artificial intelligence center in Vietnam. Our construction and reclamation efforts paid off. After three years, we have a beautiful campus overlooking Quy Nhon Bay. The FPTU Quy Nhon campus also has housing for young single lecturers who moved here for education. They are provided with free housing during their teaching tenure at FPTU Quy Nhon. In the Thi Nai swamp area, the Quy Nhon City People’s Committee cooperates and supports FPTU in planning the An Phu Thinh affordable housing area for lecturers and FPT workers alongside other commercial and premium housing areas. This helps young FPTU lecturers and their families realize the dream of owning a home at prices 30% lower than the market. A new urban area is forming here along with the FPTU campus.


--- [FPT Corporation explained] ---
| FPT Corporation | | | Type: | Joint-stock company | | Area Served: | Worldwide | | Industry: | Information technology, telecommunications, education | | Key People: | Trương Gia Bình (Chairman)Nguyen Van Khoa (CEO)Hoàng Nam Tiến | | Products: | Technology (IT solutions and services),Telecommunications (telecommunications services, FPT TV and digital content services),Training (from primary to post graduate) | | Revenue: | 52.617 billion VND (đ) (2023) | | Owner: | Trương Gia Bình | | Num Employees: | 48,162 | | Location: | FPT Tower, No. 10 Pham Van Bach, Cau Giay, Hanoi, Vietnam | FPT, officially the FPT Corporation (; "FPT" stands for Financing and Promoting Technology), is the largest information technology service company in Vietnam with operations spanning three fundamental sectors: Technology, Telecommunications and Education. On September 13, 1988, the director of the National Institute of Technology Research signed a decision to establish The Food Processing Technology Company (FPT's original name), operating in the fields of drying technology, information technology and automation technology. On October 27, 1990, the company was renamed The Corporation for Financing and Promoting Technology (FPT for short), specializing in information technology. In 1998, FPT became one of the four leading Internet service providers in Vietnam to create a breakthrough in this field. FPT has been put into operation under the model of a joint stock company since 2002. On September 8, 2006, the FPT University was founded under FPT, becoming the first licensed cooperate university. Key people of the university were Dr. Le Truong Tung - the first dean and Associate Professor Truong Gia Binh - the chairman of the board.[1] On October 24, 2006, FPT announced its decision to issue additional shares to two strategic investors, Texas Pacific Group (TPG) and Intel Capital. FPT received an investment of $36.5 million through TPG Ventures and Intel Capital.[2] On November 18, 2006, Microsoft and FPT signed a strategic alliance agreement.[3] On December 13, 2006, FPT stock was listed on the Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange (HOSE). On December 19, 2008, FPT Corporation was approved to change its name from "The Corporation for Financing and Promoting Technology" to "FPT Corporation". On December 24, 2008, FPT Corporation announced a decision to appoint Mr. Nguyen Thanh Nam as the CEO of FPT Group, replacing Mr. Truong Gia Binh. Mr. Nguyen Thanh Nam is a founding member of FPT Corporation, Chairman of FPT Software (FSOFT). In February 2011, the board of directors of FPT Corporation issued a resolution appointing Mr. Truong Dinh Anh as general director to replace Mr. Nguyen Thanh Nam.[4] On July 31, 2013, the board of directors of FPT Corporation approved the appointment of Mr. Bui Quang Ngoc, Ph.D. in database, to replace Mr. Truong Gia Binh as FPT's general director. Mr. Bui Quang Ngoc is one of the founding members and currently vice chairman of FPT.[5] In 2014, FPT was the first IT company in Vietnam to acquire a foreign IT company, RWE IT Slovakia (a member of RWE, a European leading energy corporation).[6] In August 2017, FPT transferred 30% of its ownership in FPT Retail to Vina Capital and Dragon Capital, reducing its stake in FPT Retail to 55%.[7] In September 2017, FPT transferred 47% of its ownership in FPT Trading to Synnex Corporation (Taiwan), reducing its stake in FPT Trading to 48%.[8] In July 2018, FPT acquired 90% stake in Intellinet Consulting (Intellinet), one of the fastest growing technology consulting companies in the US. In March 2019, FPT appointed Mr. Nguyen Van Khoa - Executive Vice President of FPT and CEO of FPT Information System - to take the position of FPT's CEO, replacing Mr. Bui Quang Ngoc at the end of his term.[9] In May 2021, FPT acquired Base.vn, a SaaS start-up.[10] In July 2021, FPT invested in Intertec International.[11] In August 2021, FPT launched eCovax – the digital "vaccine" program that helps businesses respond – recover – thrive in COVID-19.[12] On September 16, 2021, FPT's Chairman Truong Gia Binh initiated the idea of building a school for children who lost their parents due to COVID-19.[13] FPT has strengthened its presence in 27 countries by opening a second office in New York in May 2022 and the first representative office in Northern Europe in Copenhagen, Denmark in September 2022. In September 2022, Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore Heng Swee Keat visited FPT with the aim of promoting partnership and cooperation of private sector enterprises between Vietnam and Singapore.[14] In October 2022, FPT invested in Japanese business consulting services provider LTS Inc., becoming its strategic shareholder.[15] In 2023, FPT executed four M&A deals and invested in technology companies in the US and France, such as Intertec International, Cardinal Peak, AOSIS and Landing AI.[16] On December 14, 2023, FPT launches automotive technology subsidiary in Texas - FPT Automotive.[17] In April 2024 it partnered with American tech company Nvidia to build an AI (artificial intelligence) factory.[18] In Vietnam, FPT's technology infrastructure appears in 63 out of 63 provinces and cities. Meanwhile, FPT has offices and branches in 30 countries and territories around the world. As of December 31, 2023, the corporation's business structure comprises 8 subsidiaries and 2 affiliated companies. 8 Subsidiaries: 2 Associates:


--- [Cao Minh Chau - Vu Gia Tien - History - Google Sites] ---
FPT University was established in 2006 by FPT Corporation to address the demand for high-quality IT professionals. FPT University aims to blend academic knowledge with practical industry experience. Expanded beyond IT to include business and engineering programs. Gained international accreditation from QS Stars. 🗺️ Global Expansion Developed multiple campuses across Vietnam, including Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, and Da Nang. Established partnerships with over 60 universities worldwide.


--- [FPT University | World University Rankings | THE] ---
FPT University About FPT University Basic information and contact details for FPT University Impact Rankings Select the type of ranking below to see stats Discover similar universities Find out more about studying, research and jobs at these universities suggested Jobs you might be interested in You may want to explore jobs from other universities which are relevant to you See all Academic Lead, Academic Development Charles Sturt University Australia, Bathurst Charles Sturt University Australia, Bathurst Attractive salary and benefits including 17% superannuation Unique opportunity to shape the future of education Work in a dynamic, collaborative environment with experienced professionals The role Full Time, Fixed Term (until December 2026) Level C - $139,182 to $160,308 pa (plus 17% superannuation) Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst, Dubbo, Orange, Port Macquarie or Wagga Wagga. Other locations / remote working also considered upon application As a key driver of the Educational Strategy Vision, you will lead the design, development and implementation of high impact professional development aligned with the Models of Engagement and Assessment Practices initiative. You will empower academic staff and teaching teams to embed evidence informed pedagogical principles and practices across the three designated models, enhancing student engagement and success. Central to the role is the cultivation of strong, collaborative relationships across the Division of Learning and Teaching and the wider university community to support consistent, high quality learning experiences. About you Relevant doctoral qualification in education (or related discipline) supported by a strong record of scholarly activity and experience demonstrating capacity to lead pedagogical innovation Demonstrated success in designing, delivering and evaluating evidence informed professional development for academic staff, translating policy and standards into effective learning experiences Strong expertise in university teaching, pedagogy and/or assessment in digital and blended contexts Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, including experience leading and collaborating effectively with various stakeholders About us We are a university of the land and people of our regions. True to the character of regional Australia we have gumption, we have soul and we collaborate with others. We develop holistic, far-sighted people who help their communities grow and flourish. The Wiradjuri phrase yindyamarra winhanganha means the wisdom of respectfully knowing how to live well in a world worth living in. This phrase represents who we are at Charles Sturt University - our ethos. It comes from traditional Indigenous Australian knowledge, but it also speaks to the mission of universities - to develop and spread wisdom to make the world a better place. Harnessing technology, we thrive as a distributed yet connected community, welcoming and engaging with people across Australia and the world. Learn more about the Division of Learning and Teaching here. Charles Sturt University is committed to building a diverse workforce as shown through our Athena Swan Bronze Award, our Australian Workplace Equality Index Bronze Award and our membership of a range of diversity focused organisations including Diversity Council Australia and Pride in Diversity. We encourage applications from First Nations people, carers, people from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds, people with disability, neurodivergent people, and people of all age groups, genders and sexualities for all roles. To apply Click the Apply button and complete your application online, submit a "statement of suitability" demonstrating your skills, knowledge and/or experience relevant to the position (referencing the selection criteria in the position description) and upload your CV. If you experience difficulties applying online or for further information on completing the application process please visit our how to apply page or contact us. This position is available as a fixed term appointment or, for eligible employees, as a secondment. To be eligible for a secondment, you must have completed probation. We encourage you to make your current manager aware before applying for a secondment opportunity. This position is open to Australian Citizens and Permanent Residents; or applicants who hold a current valid work visa commensurate with this position. Further information Additional information is available in the position description or by contacting: Associate Professor Koshila Kumar | Sub-Dean (Academic Development) | kkumar@csu.edu.au Closing Date: 11pm, 17 March 2026 Salary $139,182 to $160,308 pa (plus 17% superannuation) Posted 4 Mar 2026 Teaching Support Technician (Vet Anatomy) University of Surrey United Kingdom, Guildford University of Surrey United Kingdom, Guildford Are you practical, hands-on, and enjoy variety in your working day? Do you like working as part of a team, supporting students, and being in an active environment where no two days are the same? If so, we have an exciting opportunity to join the School of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Surrey, supporting our Veterinary Anatomy teaching laboratories. This is an excellent opportunity to work in a respected and forward-thinking veterinary environment, contributing directly to the training of future veterinary surgeons. You’ll be supported to develop your skills and will gain experience in a specialist technical role with real impact. The Role As a Teaching Support Technician (Anatomy), your principal focus will be to provide technical support within the Veterinary Anatomy laboratories, supporting academic staff and students during anatomy teaching sessions and lab placements. Working closely with the Senior Anatomy Technician and the wider technical team, you will be involved in a wide range of practical activities including: Setting up and cleaning down veterinary anatomy teaching sessions Cadaver preparation to support teaching delivery Setting up teaching iPads and ensuring equipment is ready for classes Managing PPE, including laundry and maintaining stock Assisting with ordering teaching supplies and consumables Collecting cadavers and specimens from veterinary practices, charitable shelters and abattoirs using a University van Supporting safe working practices, including laboratory equipment checks, waste disposal, COSHH compliance and standard operating protocols Assisting with the design and development of teaching models, including practical model making using silicone materials and wood/metal work This role provides a fantastic opportunity to develop skills in anatomy laboratory work, dissection/prosection techniques, and model development while supporting teaching across all five years of the Veterinary Medicine programme. About You We are looking for an enthusiastic and motivated individual with a practical approach to work and a genuine interest in veterinary science or laboratory-based support. You will ideally have experience in a laboratory or veterinary environment and be confident working safely with biological samples. You’ll enjoy being part of a busy team, working to tight schedules, and supporting teaching delivery in a professional and collegiate manner. You will also have: A full UK driving licence (essential) Experience driving larger vehicles such as a Transit van, 4x4 or trailers (desirable) A good understanding of Health & Safety procedures and safe laboratory working practices Strong organisational skills and the ability to prioritise your workload Good DIY skills and an interest in model building A flexible and adaptable attitude, with a willingness to learn Formal qualifications are welcomed (HNC, A Level, NVQ Level 3 or equivalent), but relevant practical experience in a technical or scientific role is equally valuable. Physical Requirements This is a physically demanding role. The post holder must be physically fit and able to lift/carry at least 13kg, with heavier loads moved using lifting equipment or with assistance. The role also requires driving a large Transit-type vehicle to off-site locations including abattoirs and other establishments. Working Pattern The role requires flexibility to work between 08:00–18:00, Monday to Friday, on a pre-determined rota. How to Apply To apply, please submit your CV and a cover letter detailing your suitability for the role. If you would like to discus this role further, please contact Tom Hussey (Pathology & Building Facilities Manager) on either 07773577766 or t.hussey@surrey.ac.uk. Interviews will be held on Monday 30th March. Further details Job Description Salary £28,031 to £31,236 per annum Posted 4 Mar 2026 University Assistant Predoctoral (Short-term Finishing Contract -CoBeNe) University of Vienna Austria, Vienna Danubepier Hov University of Vienna Austria, Vienna Danubepier Hov At the University of Vienna, over 10,000 people work together on the big questions of the future. Approximately 7,500 of them are academic staff members. These are individuals who, with their curiosity and their continuous pursuit of excellence, engage in international cutting-edge research and teaching. With us, you will also find space to unfold your potential. We are looking for a/an University assistant predoctoral (Short-term finishing Contract -CoBeNe) 50 Faculty of Life Sciences Startdate: 01.04.2026 | Working hours: 20 | Collective bargaining agreement: §48 VwGr. B1 Grundstufe (praedoc) Reference no.: 5253 The Vienna Doctoral School in Cognition, Behavior and Neuroscience promotes innovative, excellent and interdisciplinary research in the areas of Psychological Science, Behavioral & Cognitive Biology, Neuroscience, and the Cognitive Humanities at the University of Vienna. The uniting theme is the interdisciplinary interest in human and non-human behavior, understanding its underlying cognitive, emotional, social, cultural, physiological, and neurobiological bases, studying how the brain maintains or changes functionality over time, and probing its evolutionary origins and development. The mission of the Vienna Doctoral School in Cognition, Behavior and Neuroscience is to enhance academic and professional development of PhD candidates, advance intellectual communication and scholarship across disciplines, and promote cultural diversity, scientific integrity, and international collaboration. Your personal sphere of influence: With the VDS CoBeNe Short-term Finishing Contracts, the Vienna Doctoral School of Cognition, Behavior and Neuroscience supports CoBeNe doctoral candidates in the final phase of their doctoral studies. The 4-month short-term finishing contracts as University assistants (predoctoral) are offered for VDS CoBeNe PhD candidates who have successfully passed their public presentation at the Faculty, concluded the doctoral thesis agreement and, since then, submitted the annual progress reports and held their TAC meetings. Your tasks: The doctoral thesis should be completed and submitted at the end of this employment. At the time of the application, approximately half of the doctoral thesis should be finalised. Applicants should have an excellent study record (duration of studies, grades) and provide evidence of relevant academic achievements (conference presentations, publications, etc.). Applicants must be members of the VDS CoBeNe. Requirements: Work on the dissertation must already be sufficiently advanced at the time of application that it can realistically be expected that the submission of the completed dissertation can take place at the latest at the end of the funding period (maximum 4 months) Very good academic records (seminars, publications, conference presentations) A statement from your supervisor committing to support your finalization phase Compliance with the CoBeNe regulations for PhD candidates (agreement to the Code of Good Practice, FÖP within the first 2 semester, doctoral thesis agreement, all annual reports, and TAC meetings) Active participation in VDS CoBeNe activities are highly valued in the selection process. What we offer: The employment duration is 4 months. Job grading in accordance with collective bargaining agreement: §48 VwGr. B1 Grundstufe (praedoc) with relevant work experience determining the assignment to a particular salary grade (Salary scheme). Work-life balance: Our employees enjoy flexible, family-friendly working hours, remote/hybrid (upon agreement). Inspiring working atmosphere: You are a part of an international academic team in a healthy and fair working environment. Good public transport connections: Your workplace in the center of beautiful Vienna is easily accessible by public transport. Internal further training & Coaching: Opportunity to deepen your skills on an ongoing basis. There are over 600 courses to choose from – free of charge. Fair salary: The basic salary of EUR 3.776,10 (on a full-time basis; 14 times a year) increases if we can credit professional experience. Equal opportunities for everyone: We look forward to diverse personalities in the team! It is that easy to apply: Please combine the following documents into one PDF file (if possible): A report on the current status of the doctoral thesis including an abstract (1,000–2,000 characters without spaces), a tabular overview of the chapters including information about the completion status of each chapter, and a work schedule for the completion of the doctoral thesis (no more than 4 pages including a list of references, font size of 11pt, 1.5 line spacing). Please use the VDS CoBeNe completion grant template, which can be found on the CoBeNe homepage. CV in tabular form (no more than 3 pages including a list of publications and conference presentations, if available). Doctoral thesis agreement, annual progress reports and transcript of records (“Sammelzeugnis”). (if available) Positive statement/s from your supervisor/s. Conferment certificate(s) on academic degrees. Via our job portal / Apply now - button end of this page. If you have any questions, please contact: Dr. Katja Hellekes katja.hellekes@univie.ac.at We look forward to new personalities in our team! The University of Vienna has an anti-discriminatory employment policy and attaches great importance to equal opportunities, the advancement of women and diversity. We lay special emphasis on increasing the number of women in senior and in academic positions among the academic and general university staff and therefore expressly encourage qualified women to apply. Given equal qualifications, preference will be given to female candidates. University of Vienna. Space for personalities. Since 1365. Data protection Application deadline: 03/06/2026 (MM-DD-YYYY) Prae Doc Salary EUR 3.776,10 (on a full-time basis; 14 times a year) Posted 4 Mar 2026 Research Associate Adelaide University Australia, Adelaide Adelaide University Australia, Adelaide Based in the College of Business, Law at the North Terrace Campus Part-time (0.84 FTE), fixed term contract available for 7 months Salary range: $81,293 – $109,307 per annum (plus 17% superannuation) At Adelaide University, we create the opportunities you need to achieve your ambitions – because when you thrive, we thrive. We are transforming education for contemporary learners and global citizens. Building on a proud legacy and shaped by bold ambition, it’s a place of excellence and equity, where our vibrant community of staff are united by our purpose to inspire Australia’s future change-makers and create a better tomorrow. Work that matters The Research Fellow (Level A) will work closely with experienced researchers within the university, contributing to a range of research activities and producing high-quality research outputs, including academic publications and research reports. In this role, you will undertake responsibilities including but not limited to contributing to research design and methodology; conducting data collection and data analysis; writing research reports and academic publications; providing project support and coordination; translating research outcomes into education development and teaching-related outputs; and undertaking other research-related activities as requested by the supervisor. The role will be largely focused on career management and vocational psychology research. The team The College of Business and Law are South Australia’s leading hub for business, commerce, economics, and law education and research, teaching and developing professionals who think innovatively and make smart, sustainable decisions as future leaders. We develop career-ready graduates and positively impact our communities and environments locally, nationally and globally. This role is based in the School of Management, where future change-makers are equipped with the skills and insight to navigate complexity and create lasting impact. Visit the AU website to learn more about the College of Business and Law | Adelaide University. Our people Our people are guided by purpose, curiosity and a commitment to lifelong learning. We embrace authenticity, innovation and collaboration, and harness diverse thinking in our pursuit of excellence. This role is perfect for someone who enjoys variety and meeting new people. You will experience a range of tasks and interactions, keeping your workday interesting and engaging. Learn more about our people, what we stand for and what we offer at Careers at AU. Experience To join our community and thrive in this role, you will likely have the following skills and experience. Qualifications A PhD in HRM, occupational/vocational psychology, or a highly relevant field in business management/psychology; final-stage PhD candidates may be considered if they have received a positive thesis examination outcome Essential criteria: Strong capabilities and experience in both qualitative and quantitative research methods Evidence of publication success in ABDC A*/A-ranked journals Demonstrated research experience in talent/personnel development, career development, occupational choice and development, or related areas within vocational psychology Effective interpersonal and communication skills Strong team collaboration skills Desirable criteria: Experience in writing or contributing to competitive research grant applications Demonstrated experience in course development and delivery in personnel management, occupational development, and/or talent management, with the ability to translate research into engaging educational materials and outcomes Our commitment to inclusion and diversity We are committed to fostering a culture of inclusion where diversity is celebrated and everyone feels respected and valued. Adelaide University is an equal opportunity employer, committed to creating a safe, inclusive, and equitable workplace where everyone can thrive. We strongly encourage applications from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, people with disability, and people of all ages, genders, cultural backgrounds, sexual orientations, and gender identities. We are committed to supporting flexible working arrangements and providing reasonable adjustments throughout the recruitment process. Launch your future with Adelaide University now. Applying is simple. Simply click on the Apply Now button and upload: your current CV a cover letter that tells us why you’re excited about the role The online application form will list the specific selection criteria that you need to address. Submit your application by 11:30pm Sunday 15 March 2026 Please note that the role description is not attached to this advertisement as it is currently being finalised. For further information about this opportunity, please contact (quoting reference number 492738): Jessica Maslen Team Lead – Talent Acquisition +61 8 8302 1700 | careers.adelaideuniversity@adelaide.edu.au The University reserves the right to close this advertisement before the closing date if a suitable candidate is identified. Applications welcomed from Australian or NZ citizens, Australian permanent residents and those who have the legal right to work in Australia for the term of appointment. Salary $81,293 - $109,307 per annum (plus 17% superannuation) Posted 4 Mar 2026 Lecturer in Mechatronics Design Vietnamese-German University Vietnam Vietnamese-German University Vietnam The Vietnamese-German University (VGU) is seeking a highly qualified full-time lecturer in Mechatronics Design. Candidates must hold a Ph.D. in this field or a closely related field and have a strong background in research. Relevant international experience is of advantage. The successful candidate will become part of an international network of universities and research institutes. Teaching Responsibilities In the role of a lecturer, the successful candidate will teach undergraduate courses in the Mechatronics (MEC) program. The expected workload for the in-class lecture conduction is 08 academic hours per week, totaling 240 academic hours per year (1 academic hour equals to 45 minutes). Teaching should reflect current research methods and results, and comprises lectures on the following modules: Module 1: Programming Methods 1 (60 AHs) Module 2: Programming Methods 2 (60 AHs) Module 3: Methodical Design (60 AHs) Module 4: Mechatronics Design (60 AHs) Module 5: Bachelor Project (60 AHs) Module 6: Student Project (60 AHs) The named courses are subject to change upon realistic needs of the programs and joint agreement between the lecturer, relevant Academic Coordinators, and Dean/Vice Dean in charge of teaching. Courses may require conducting relevant laboratory activities and/or advising student projects. The holder of this job is also responsible for supervising bachelor's and master's theses and mentoring PhD students. Research Responsibilities As a faculty member of a research-oriented university, the successful candidate is expected to significantly contribute to the scientific profile of VGU through innovation. This includes and is not limited to comprehensive activities in basic research as well as applied research in the fields of Mechatronics Engineering /or Mechanical Engineering. The ability to apply and generate externally funded research projects is highly desirable. Administrative responsibilities The successful candidate is expected to contribute to the development of the MEC program by participating in administrative, marketing and other public activities of the program in consultation with the Academic Coordinator of the study program and the German partner university, namely Hamburg University of Applied Sciences (HAW Hamburg). She or he is also expected to contribute actively to the academic self-administration of the Faculty of Engineering and university by being willing to stand for election to the Faculty Council, Academic Senate and/or other bodies. Qualification Candidates must hold a Ph.D. in Mechatronics or Mechanical Engineering, or a closely related field, preferably from a well-known international university. A current title of Professor will be a plus, as experience and understanding of the German higher education system and methodology. Other requirements include: An outstanding academic record with a focus on Mechatronic Design, especially in robotic, automobile and aeronautical systems or other areas closely related to it; Knowledge in procedural programming (C, C++, Python, TensorFlow, etc.); Knowledge in artificial intelligence and its applications for mechatronic systems; Strong track record of successful research activities and publications in international and peer-reviewed journals in the related area; Proven teaching experience with strong self-motivation combined with a passion for teaching and research; Experience in industry is of advantage; Proven excellent English proficiency: Candidates who are from non-native English-speaking countries should include one of the following valid English proficiency certificates; IELTS 6.5, TOEFL 548(PBT), TOEFL 84 (iBT), TOEFL 212 (CBT), CEFR level B2 or Aptis level C1 at the time of application submission. Alternatively, candidates who do not hold a valid English proficiency certificate at the submission time need to be internally assessed at VGU to meet the criterion stated above.[1] Employment benefits The successful candidate will become part of a professional and interdisciplinary group of faculty and have access to state-of-the-art laboratories. VGU supports its lecturers with attractive start-up endowments for quality research projects. VGU also supports participation in national and international conferences and the publishing of research papers. VGU lecturers enjoy a rich cultural experience and a dynamic teaching environment through interactions with inquisitive and quality students. Further information, e.g. regarding the appointment procedure, the competitive salary and research activities can be downloaded here. Application To apply please send your application (with the following documents in one PDF max. size: 10 MB) to academicpositions@vgu.edu.vn with subject line "Mechatronics Design_[Your Name]" Your application should include: Form for basic information (Please download here, complete this form electronically and submit it together with your application) A cover letter stating your interest in joining VGU Curriculum Vitae (including list of publications) Scans of university degrees, university transcripts and other relevant certificates Scans of language certificates (if available, highly appreciated) References illustrating your professional and academic career, including contact details of references (if available, highly appreciated) Evaluation results for teaching (if available) All applications will be reviewed and evaluated by VGU's international Application Review Team. For further information, please contact: Program Academic Director: Prof. Dirk Engel at Dirk.Engel@hawhamburg.de and/or Program Academic Coordinator: Assoc. Prof. Do Xuan Phu at phu.dx@vgu.edu.vn About us The Vietnamese-German University (VGU) is a Vietnamese state university. Founded in 2008, VGU is a joint venture based on a close cooperation between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, with the goal of becoming the leading research university in Vietnam and the region. VGU´s strategy is to customize excellent German study programs in the fields of engineering, informatics and economics to meet the needs of Vietnamese higher education. Being a joint effort of Vietnamese and German institutions, VGU follows the successful German model and standards concerning the academic and administrative structures. As part of VGU's ongoing commitment to gender equity, the university is actively seeking to enhance the representation of women in research and teaching roles. VGU therefore strongly encourages applications from qualified female lecturers who wish to contribute to the academic community. Salary Competitive salary Posted 4 Mar 2026
