=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Drawings for Projection | William Kentridge]
Drawings Felix in Exile 1994 The first Soho film was an indulgence, time out from being an artist, a private pleasure that did not have to make sense to anyone outside the studio. Once the films started to be seen (about three years after the series began), it became harder to reclaim each time the space of not knowing what I was doing.
URL: https://www.kentridge.studio/william-kentridge-projects/drawings-for-projection/

[William Kentridge - ASIFA]
Jan 7, 2014 · Collectively known as 9 Drawings for Projection, the films include: Johannesburg—2nd Greatest City after Paris (1989, Monument (1990), Mine (1991), Sobriety, Obesity & Growing Old (1991), Felix in Exile (1994), History of the Main Complaint (1996), Weighing and Wanting (1997), Stereoscope (1999), and Tide Table (2003).
URL: https://asifa.net/william-kentridge/

[Tag: 9 Drawings for Projection - art and cultural memory archive]
Jan 4, 2009 · Although his hand-drawn animations are often described as films, Kentridge himself prefers to call them “drawings for projection.” He makes them using a distinctive technique in which he painstakingly creates, erases, and reworks charcoal drawings that are photographed and projected as moving image.
URL: https://artblart.com/tag/9-drawings-for-projection/

[William Kentridge's 9 Drawings for Projection | MoMA]
Film series. Feb 15-20, 2006. The Department of Film and Media presents a weeklong run of William Kentridge's 9 Drawings for Projection (2005). This feature-length 35mm film, composed of nine short animated films made between 1989 and 2003, traces the public and private life of Soho Eckstein, a mine owner, land developer, and cuckold, against the ever-changing social and political ...
URL: https://www.moma.org/calendar/film/933

[William Kentridge 1990s Chronology | Kentridge.studio]
William Kentridge chronology: selected biography; work in drawing, print making, sculpture, film, theatre and opera; exhibitions and awards 1990 - 1999
URL: https://www.kentridge.studio/william-kentridge-1990s-chronology/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Drawings for Projection | William Kentridge] ---
Thick Time Everything can be saved. Everything is provisional. A prior action is rescued by that which follows. A drawing abandoned is revived by the next drawing. The films of Soho Eckstein and Felix Teitlebaum were all made with the principle of NO SCRIPT, NO STORYBOARD. The making of each film was the discovery of what each film was. A first image, phrase, or idea would justify itself in the unfolding of images, connections, and ideas spawned by the work as it progressed. The imperfect erasures of the successive stages of each drawing become a record of the progress of an idea and a record of the passage of time. The smudges of erasure thicken time in the film, but they also serve as a record of the days and months spent making the film—a record of thinking in slow motion. - + Credits Johannesburg, 2nd Greatest City After Paris 1989 16mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 2 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Warwick Sony with music by Duke Ellington; choral music Monument 1990 16mm film transferred to video 3 minutes 11 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Catherine Meyburgh Music Edward Jordan Mine 1991 16mm film transferred to video 5 minutes 50 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Music Dvorak’s Cello Concerto in B Minor, Opus 104 Sobriety, Obesity and Growing Old 1991 16mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 22 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Music Dvorak’s String Quartet in F, Opus 96; choral music of South Africa; M’appari aria from Friedrich von Flotow’s Martha, sung by Enrico Caruso Felix in Exile 1994 Animated film 35mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 43 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Wilbert Schübel Music Philip Miller, String Trio for Felix in Exile (musicians: Peta-Ann Holdcroft, Marjan Vonk-Stirling, Jan Pustejovsky); Go Tlapsha Didiba by Motsumi Makhene (sung by Sibongile Khumalo) History of the Main Complaint 1996 35mm film transferred to video 5 minutes 50 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Wilbert Schübel Music A madrigal by Monteverdi Weighing… and Wanting 1998 35mm film transferred to video 6 minutes 20 seconds Editing Angus Gibson and Catherine Meyburgh Sound Wilbert Schübel Music Philip Miller (musicians: Peta-Ann Holdcroft, Marjan Vonk-Stirling, Ivo Ivanov) Stereoscope 1999 35mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 22 seconds Editing Catherine Meyburgh Music Philip Miller (musicians: Peta-Ann Holdcroft, Marjan Vonk-Stirling, Ishmael Kambule, Minas Berberyan) Sound Wilbert Schübel Tide Table 2003 35mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 50 seconds Editing Catherine Meyburgh Music Likambo Ya Ngana by Franco et le TP O.K. Jazz; singers from the Market Theatre Laboratory Sound Wilbert Schübel Other Faces 2011 35mm film transferred to video 9 minutes 45 seconds Editing Catherine Meyburgh Music and sound design Philip Miller Voice Ann Masina and Bham Ntabeni Sound mix Wilbert Schübel and Gavan Eckhart City Deep 2020 HD video (1920×1080), stereo audio 9 minutes 15 seconds Editing Janus Fouché Music Imimoya (spirits): composed by Nhlanhla Mahlangu, vocals Xolisile Bongwana, Thulani Zwane, Siphiwe Nkabinde, Zama Maphumulo, Muzi Shili, Mandla Sibanyoni, Sibusiso Shozi Works for Prepared Piano: composed by John Cage, performed by Markus Hinterhäuser Johannesburg, 2nd Greatest City After Paris 1989 Excerpt from complete film Drawings Monument 1990 Excerpt from complete film Drawings Mine 1990 A slow trawling of motives, of connections between the characters in the film and in their world—the world of South Africa since the late 1980s. There is if not a deliberate blindness then certainly a bluntness in the progression of the films: bluntness both in the crude charcoal and fat erasures that are inevitable when using these materials, and in the unrefined succession of images. In the expectation or resignation that in the end, crude or sharp, well or ill, the constellation of images, story, and sound will reveal who one is (who I am, although the first person singular feels an impertinence, or at any rate inadequate. One of the things the films showed was that Soho and Felix were both close to me—not so much a self divided, but the artist as mediator between several different factions of the self. In Stereoscope Soho divides in two; in History of the Main Complaint he becomes eight or nine). Excerpt from complete film Drawings Sobriety, Obesity & Growing Old 1990 Excerpt from complete film Drawings Felix in Exile 1994 The first Soho film was an indulgence, time out from being an artist, a private pleasure that did not have to make sense to anyone outside the studio. Once the films started to be seen (about three years after the series began), it became harder to reclaim each time the space of not knowing what I was doing. One of the tasks of the years has been to find strategies to keep clarity at a distance. I still rely on a first image, phrase, or idea, but with oceans unknown between them—a sufficient impetus to put the camera in front of the paper and shoot the first frame. Excerpt from complete film Drawings History of the Main Complaint 1996 Excerpt from complete film Drawings Weighing… and Wanting 1998 The scale of drawings (the largest are an arm’s span, the smallest about a quarter of that), the materials (charcoal, one or two pastels, an eraser, and a cloth of chamois leather), and the format (film, not 4:3 video) stay the same. The gaps between making the films have become longer. City Deep, the most recent in the series (made in 2020), comes nine years after Other Faces, which preceded it. But the start of a new film feels more and more a return to a familiar space—to a refuge for slow time. Excerpt from complete film Drawings Stereoscope 1999 Excerpt from complete film Drawings Tide Table 2003 The hope (and this is too much to load on the films) is that the succession of images and the connections between them will show not only a way forward for the narrative of the film, not only a revelation of who one is, but also a hint as to how to go forward in the world outside the studio, as if the gradual accretion of marks can somehow lumberingly draw agency into existence. Excerpt from complete film Drawings Other Faces 2011 Excerpt from complete film Drawings City Deep 2020 Excerpt from complete film Drawings An Interview with William Kentridge Matthew and William Kentridge, October 2012. Conversation for the book "The Soho Chronicles: 10 Films by William Kentridge". More projects Credits: Drawings for Projection Johannesburg, 2nd Greatest City After Paris 1989 16mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 2 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Warwick Sony with music by Duke Ellington; choral music Monument 1990 16mm film transferred to video 3 minutes 11 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Catherine Meyburgh Music Edward Jordan Mine 1991 16mm film transferred to video 5 minutes 50 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Music Dvorak’s Cello Concerto in B Minor, Opus 104 Sobriety, Obesity and Growing Old 1991 16mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 22 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Music Dvorak’s String Quartet in F, Opus 96; choral music of South Africa; M’appari aria from Friedrich von Flotow’s Martha, sung by Enrico Caruso Felix in Exile 1994 Animated film 35mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 43 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Wilbert Schübel Music Philip Miller, String Trio for Felix in Exile (musicians: Peta-Ann Holdcroft, Marjan Vonk-Stirling, Jan Pustejovsky); Go Tlapsha Didiba by Motsumi Makhene (sung by Sibongile Khumalo) History of the Main Complaint 1996 35mm film transferred to video 5 minutes 50 seconds Editing Angus Gibson Sound Wilbert Schübel Music A madrigal by Monteverdi Weighing… and Wanting 1998 35mm film transferred to video 6 minutes 20 seconds Editing Angus Gibson and Catherine Meyburgh Sound Wilbert Schübel Music Philip Miller (musicians: Peta-Ann Holdcroft, Marjan Vonk-Stirling, Ivo Ivanov)Stereoscope 1999 35mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 22 seconds Editing Catherine Meyburgh Music Philip Miller (musicians: Peta-Ann Holdcroft, Marjan Vonk-Stirling, Ishmael Kambule, Minas Berberyan) Sound Wilbert Schübel Tide Table 2003 35mm film transferred to video 8 minutes 50 seconds Editing Catherine Meyburgh Music Likambo Ya Ngana by Franco et le TP O.K. Jazz; singers from the Market Theatre Laboratory Sound Wilbert Schübel Other Faces 2011 35mm film transferred to video 9 minutes 45 seconds Editing Catherine Meyburgh Music and sound design Philip Miller Voice Ann Masina and Bham Ntabeni Sound mix Wilbert Schübel and Gavan Eckhart City Deep 2020 HD video (1920×1080), stereo audio 9 minutes 15 seconds Editing Janus Fouché Music Imimoya (spirits): composed by Nhlanhla Mahlangu, vocals Xolisile Bongwana, Thulani Zwane, Siphiwe Nkabinde, Zama Maphumulo, Muzi Shili, Mandla Sibanyoni, Sibusiso Shozi Works for Prepared Piano: composed by John Cage, performed by Markus Hinterhäuser


--- [William Kentridge - ASIFA] ---
William Kentridge was born on April 28, 1955 in Johannesburg, South Africa where his parents were prominent lawyers who defended victims of the apartheid regime. In the 1970’s, he studied Politics and African Studies at the University of Witwaterstrand in Johannesburg and completed a diploma of Fine Arts from the Johannesburg Art Foundation. From 1981-82, he studied mime and theatre at the L’École Internationale de Théâtre Jacques Lecoq, in Paris, after which he returned to his native Johannesburg where he worked as an actor, puppeteer, set designer, writer, and director in both television and the theatre. He has maintained Johannesburg as his home, living and working just a few miles away from where he was born. Various critics have written that Kentridge’s most notable work is the nine short animated films he completed between 1989 and 2003, reflecting the ravages and cruelty of the apartheid regime. Collectively known as 9 Drawings for Projection, the films include: Johannesburg—2nd Greatest City after Paris (1989, Monument (1990), Mine (1991), Sobriety, Obesity & Growing Old (1991), Felix in Exile (1994), History of the Main Complaint (1996), Weighing and Wanting (1997), Stereoscope (1999), and Tide Table (2003). Together, these visually complex animations tell the story of three characters, Soho Eckstein, Mrs. Eckstein, and Felix Teitlebaum. Soho Eckstein, a greedy industrialist and Felix, his anxious alter-ego and romantic rival for the attention of Mrs. Eckstein, embody both the selfishness and the despair taking place amid the political turmoil of apartheid South Africa and its subsequent efforts at constitutional reform. Kentridge created the films using stop-motion camera techniques on sequential charcoal drawings made on the same piece of paper. His drawings are improvisational in that he doesn’t storyboard his films but rather allows the creative process to mediate the emerging story. The result is what Roberta Smith of the New York Times described as “a kind of filmic Neo-Expressionism.” Smith goes on to describe the series as “image making and storytelling, the personal and the political combine and recombine, often to cataclysmic effect, dazzling the eye with flurries of charcoal marks and erasures. All is mutation, metamorphosis, change and upheaval. Nothing is still, not land, objects, faces or emotions, and not the artist’s presence, which is never seen but is felt everywhere.” In addition, Mr. Kentridge has won critical praise for his production of Shostakovich’s opera, The Nose, which premiered in 2010 at the Metropolitan Opera in New York. He has garnered an international reputation as a multifaceted artist, with major exhibitions of his work in London, Seoul, Basel, Copenhagen, San Francisco, and other major cities. In 2018, he was awarded an honorary doctorate degree from the University of Pretoria in South Africa. The 2014 ASIFA Prize ceremony took place at Etudia & Anima Festival in Krakow, Poland. The award artwork was created by Jerzy Kucia, who was at the ceremony to present it in person.


--- [Tag: 9 Drawings for Projection - art and cultural memory archive] ---
Exhibition dates: 14th March – 31st May, 2009 Curator: Curator of Media Arts Rudolf Frieling and Mark Rosenthal, adjunct curator of contemporary art at the Norton Museum of Art William Kentridge (South African, b. 1955) Drawing for the film Stereoscope [Felix Crying] 1998-1999 One of my favourite artists in the world. His technique – the palimpsestic nature of his practice where the history, memories and spaces of previous drawings are overwritten again and again on a single piece of paper without their ever being lost (unlike traditional animation techniques) – is amazing. His use of drawing, animation and the camera to record narratives of connection always has personal and archetypal themes – love, loss, bigotry, big business, persecution, reconciliation and social conflict in the stories of his homeland South Africa. His perspective on the world, his knowledge of books and philosophy, his understanding that stories exist as faint, legible remains completes the perception that he is an artist drawn to the line of the world. His work is moving and compassionate as all great art should be. Dr Marcus Bunyan Many thankx to the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art for allowing me to publish the art work in the posting. Combining the political with the poetic, William Kentridge’s work has made an indelible mark on the contemporary art scene. Dealing with subjects as sobering as apartheid and colonialism, Kentridge often imbues his art with dreamy, lyrical undertones or comedic bits of self-deprecation, making his powerful messages both alluring and ambivalent. Perhaps best known for his stop-motion films of charcoal drawings, the internationally renowned South African artist also works in etching, collage, sculpture, and the performing arts, opera in particular. This exhibition explores five primary themes that have engaged Kentridge over the last three decades through a comprehensive selection of his work from the 1980s to the present. Concentrating on his most recent production and including many pieces that have not been seen in the United States, the exhibition reveals as never before the full arc of his distinguished career. Text from the SFMOMA website [Online] Cited 01/04/2009. No longer available online William Kentridge (South African, b. 1955) “Invisible Mending” from 7 Fragments for Georges Méliès 2003 35-mm and 16-mm animation film William Kentridge: Five Themes, a comprehensive survey of the contemporary South African artist’s work, will premiere at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (SFMOMA) on March 14, 2009. Featuring more than 75 works in a range of media – including animated films, drawings, prints, theater models, sculptures, and books – the exhibition is co-organised by SFMOMA and the Norton Museum of Art in West Palm Beach, Florida. The San Francisco presentation, overseen by SFMOMA Curator of Media Arts Rudolf Frieling, will be on view through May 31, 2009. Curated by Mark Rosenthal, adjunct curator of contemporary art at the Norton Museum of Art, in close collaboration with the artist, the exhibition explores five primary themes that have engaged Kentridge over the past three decades. Although the exhibition highlights projects completed since 2000 (many of which have not been seen in the United States), it will also present, for the first time, Kentridge’s most recent work alongside his earlier projects from the 1980s and 1990s – revealing as never before the full arc of his distinguished career. Following its debut at SFMOMA, the survey will travel to the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, the Norton Museum of Art, and The Museum of Modern Art in New York. Plans for the European tour – which will tentatively include Galerie nationale du Jeu de Paume in Paris, the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam, the Albertina Museum in Vienna, and the Israel Museum in Jerusalem – are being finalised. Accompanying the exhibition is a richly illustrated catalogue, complete with a DVD produced by the artist for this special occasion. The San Francisco presentation of William Kentridge: Five Themes is made possible by the generous support of the Koret Foundation and Doris and Donald Fisher. William Kentridge is one of today’s most influential artists, and with this exhibition, SFMOMA continues its commitment to bringing such groundbreaking artists as Olafur Eliasson, Richard Tuttle, and Jeff Wall to local and international audiences,” says SFMOMA Director Neal Benezra, who co-curated the last major retrospective of the artist’s work in the United States in 2001. “Although Kentridge is primarily recognised for his animated films, he has devoted most of his time to making works on paper. The drawn line is completely inseparable from his work in other media, informing everything he creates. His transformation of drawing into animated film reflects his deep interest in how content evolves from process, how meaning accrues through making.” Exhibition curator Rosenthal adds, “Even as Kentridge has established his reputation as a master draftsman, printmaker, and one of the preeminent artist–filmmakers of our time, he has also expanded the traditional notion of political art, evolving the genre from a conventional depiction of horrors to a more nuanced portrayal of the psychological effects of political events upon those who observe them, whether they be perpetrators, victims, or onlookers.” Born in 1955 in Johannesburg, where he continues to live and work, Kentridge has earned international acclaim for his interdisciplinary practice, which often fuses drawing, film, and theater. Known for engaging with the social landscape and political background of his native South Africa, he has produced a searing body of work that explores themes of colonial oppression and social conflict, loss and reconciliation, and the ephemeral nature of both personal and cultural memory. Kentridge first gained recognition in 1997, when his work was included in Documenta X in Kassel, Germany, and in the Johannesburg and Havana Biennials, which were followed by prominent solo exhibitions internationally. His art was widely introduced to American audiences in 2001 through a traveling retrospective – co-curated by Neal Benezra when he served as deputy director of the Art Institute of Chicago – which primarily included works made before 2000. William Kentridge: Five Themes brings viewers up to date on the artist’s work over the past decade, exploring how his subject matter has evolved from the specific context of South Africa to more universal stories. In recent years, Kentridge has dramatically expanded both the scope of his projects (such as recent full-scale opera productions) and their thematic concerns, which now include his own studio practice, colonialism in Namibia and Ethiopia, and the cultural history of post-revolutionary Russia. His newer work is based on an intensive exploration of themes connected to his own life experience, as well as the political and social issues that most concern him. Although his hand-drawn animations are often described as films, Kentridge himself prefers to call them “drawings for projection.” He makes them using a distinctive technique in which he painstakingly creates, erases, and reworks charcoal drawings that are photographed and projected as moving image. Movement is generated within the image, by the artist’s hand; the camera serves merely to record its progression. As such, the animations explore a tension between material object and time-based performance, uniquely capturing the artist’s working process while telling poignant and politically urgent stories. Concerning the artist’s innovative film installations of the past ten years, Rudolf Frieling adds: “Kentridge has been considered primarily as an artist who draws for projections. Yet his recent installation-based films explore an expanded cinema space and question the very foundation of what it means to produce and perceive a moving image.” In light of SFMOMA’s history with Kentridge – in 2004 the museum acquired the artist’s landmark film Tide Table (2003) and a set of related drawings – and the rich holdings of his work in private Bay Area collections, the occasion to present the first major exhibition of his work in San Francisco has particular resonance and reflects the museum’s ongoing commitment to his art. In conjunction with the exhibition, SFMOMA will bring the artist’s multimedia opera The Return of Ulysses to San Francisco for performances at Project Artaud Theater from March 25 through 29, 2009. Kentridge will also present his lecture-format solo performance I am not me, the horse is not mine at SFMOMA on March 14, 2009. The Five Themes “Parcours d’Atelier: Artist in the Studio” The first section of the exhibition examines a crucial turning point in Kentridge’s work, one in which his own art practice became a subject. According to the artist, many of these projects are meant to reflect the “invisible work that must be done” before beginning a drawing, film, or sculpture. This theme is epitomised by the large-scale multiscreen projection 7 Fragments for Georges Méliès (2003), an homage to the early French film director, who, like Kentridge, often combined performance with drawing. The suite of seven films – each depicting Kentridge at work in his studio or interacting with his creations – has only been shown once before in the United States and will be accompanied by a rarely seen group of related drawings, forming an intimate portrayal of the artist’s process. “Thick Time: Soho and Felix” A second section of the exhibition is dedicated to Kentridge’s best-known fictional characters, Soho Eckstein, a domineering industrialist and real estate developer whose troubled conscience reflects certain miens of contemporary South Africa, and his sensitive alter ego, Felix Teitlebaum, who pines for Soho’s wife and often functions as a surrogate for the artist himself. The centrepiece of this section, an ongoing work entitled 9 Drawings for Projection, comprises nine short animated films: Johannesburg, 2nd Greatest City after Paris (1989), Monument (1990), Sobriety, Obesity & Growing Old (1991), Mine (1991), Felix in Exile (1994), History of the Main Complaint (1996), WEIGHING … and WANTING (1998), Stereoscope (1999), and Tide Table (2003). These projections, along with a key selection of related drawings, follow the lives of Soho and Felix as they struggle to navigate the political and social climate of Johannesburg during the final decade of apartheid. According to Kentridge, the Soho and Felix films were made without a script or storyboards and are largely about his own process of discovery. “Occasional and Residual Hope: Ubu and the Procession” In 1975 Kentridge acted in Ubu Rex (an adaptation of Ubu Roi, Alfred Jarry’s satire about a corrupt and cowardly despot), and he subsequently devoted a large body of work to the play. He began with a series of eight etchings, collectively entitled Ubu Tells the Truth (1996), and in 1997 made an animated film of the same name, as well as a number of related drawings. These works also deal with the South African experience, specifically addressing the Truth and Reconciliation Commission hearings set up by the nation’s government in 1995 to investigate human rights abuses during apartheid. Other highlights in this grouping include the film Shadow Procession (1999), in which Kentridge first utilises techniques of shadow theatre and jointed-paper figures; the multi-panel collage Portage (2000); a large charcoal-and-pastel-on-paper work entitled Arc Procession (Smoke, Ashes, Fable) (1990); and some of the artist’s rough-hewn bronze sculptures. William Kentridge (South African, b. 1955) Act IV Scene I from Ubu Tells the Truth 1996-1997 “Sarastro and the Master’s Voice: The Magic Flute” A selection of Kentridge’s drawings, films, and theatre models inspired by his 2005 production of the Mozart opera The Magic Flute for La Monnaie, the leading opera house in Belgium, will be a highlight of the exhibition. The artist’s video projection Learning the Flute (2003), which started the Flute project, shifts between images of black charcoal drawings on white paper and white chalk drawings projected onto a blackboard, forming a meditation on darkness and light. Preparing the Flute (2005) was created as a large-scale maquette within which to test projections central to the production of the opera. Another theatre model, Black Box/Chambre Noire (2006), which has never been seen in the United States, addresses the opera’s themes, specifically through an examination of the colonial war of 1904 in German South-West Africa, and of the genocide of the Herero people. What Will Come (has already come) (2007), a consideration of colonialism in Ethiopia, presents an anamorphic film installation in which intentionally distorted images projected onto a tabletop right themselves only when reflected in a cylindrical mirror. This work was recently acquired, under the guidance of Rosenthal, by the Norton Museum of Art. “Learning from the Absurd: The Nose” The fifth section comprises a multichannel projection made in preparation for Kentridge’s forthcoming staging of The Nose, a Metropolitan Opera production that will premiere in New York in March 2010. The Nose – a 1930 Dmitri Shostakovich opera based on Nikolai Gogol’s absurdist short story of 1836 – concerns a Russian official whose nose disappears from his face, only to turn up, in uniform, as a higher-ranking official moving in more respected circles. Kentridge’s related work, I am not me, the horse is not mine (2008), on view in the United States for the first time, is a room-size installation of projected films that use Gogol’s story as the basis for examining Russian modernism and the suppression of the Russian avant-garde in the 1920s and 1930s. Related Performances Acknowledging the profound importance of theatrical work in Kentridge’s oeuvre, SFMOMA will bring the artist’s opera The Return of Ulysses to San Francisco in conjunction with the exhibition. First performed in Brussels in 1998, Kentridge’s acclaimed reinterpretation of Claudio Monteverdi’s classic 1640 opera (based on Homer’s epic poem) is transposed to a mid-20th-century Johannesburg setting. This limited-engagement performance features live actors and musicians, as well as 13 life-size, artisan-crafted wooden puppets and projections of Kentridge’s animated charcoal drawings. The Return of Ulysses will run at Project Artaud Theater from Tuesday, March 24, through Saturday, March 28 (preview March 24, opening March 25), and is a production of Pacific Operaworks, in Seattle, incorporating puppeteers from Kentridge’s longtime collaborator, the Handspring Puppet Company of Cape Town, in South Africa. In a special opening-night event on March 14, Kentridge will present a lecture-format solo performance of I am not me, the horse is not mine, which premiered at the 16th Biennale of Sydney in June 2008 (and shares the same title of the related multichannel projection making its U.S. debut with the exhibition). This live performance focuses on the development process of Kentridge’s upcoming opera production, The Nose. Definitive Publication with Companion DVD To coincide with the exhibition, SFMOMA and the Norton Museum of Art, in association with Yale University Press, will publish a richly illustrated catalogue (hardcover, $50). In the catalogue’s principal essay, exhibition curator Mark Rosenthal presents a portrait of the artist, showing the interrelationship between aspects of Kentridge’s character and the protagonists that populate his work. Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev, chief curator at the Castello di Rivoli Museum of Contemporary Art, examines the artist’s themes and iconography in closer detail, addressing Kentridge’s working methods as he moves freely between disciplines. Rudolf Frieling demonstrates that although Kentridge is not typically discussed as an installation artist, there are compelling reasons to consider him as such. Cornelia H. Butler, Judith B. Hecker, and Klaus Biesenbach, curators at the Museum of Modern Art, New York, explore the subject of performance in Kentridge’s work. Finally, a conversation between Kentridge and Michael Auping, chief curator at the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, focuses on the artist’s drawing practice. In addition, the artist has written texts to introduce each of the book’s five plate sections. For the first time, Kentridge will produce a DVD for distribution with the publication, making the catalogue unique among existing literature on the artist. Combining intimate studio footage of the artist at work with fragments from significant film projects, the DVD offers a fascinating look at how Kentridge’s ideas evolve from raw concept to finished work. Press release from the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art William Kentridge (South African, b. 1955) Johannesburg 1989 William Kentridge (South African, b. 1955) Drawing for the projection Felix in Exile 1994 William Kentridge (South African, b. 1955) Felix in Exile 1994 More videos of William Kentridge’s work are available on You Tube San Francisco Museum of Modern Art 151 Third Street San Francisco CA 94103 Phone: 415.357.4000 Opening hours: Monday 10am – 5pm Tuesday and Wednesday Closed Thursday 1pm – 8pm Friday – Sunday 10am – 5pm


--- [William Kentridge's 9 Drawings for Projection | MoMA] ---
The Department of Film and Media presents a weeklong run of William Kentridge’s 9 Drawings for Projection (2005). This feature-length 35mm film, composed of nine short animated films made between 1989 and 2003, traces the public and private life of Soho Eckstein, a mine owner, land developer, and cuckold, against the ever-changing social and political realities of South Africa. Kentridge (b. 1955, Johannesburg) begins his films with a single drawing that he alters, adds to, and subtracts from, bit by bit, photographing each change. The process of transformation is at once evident and dynamic. Until this US theatrical premiere at MoMA, Kentridge’s films have been shown in the same gallery as the drawings from which the film is photographed. Felix in Exile, the fifth work in 9 Drawings for Projection, can be viewed in this way in MoMA’s second floor Contemporary Galleries. Organized by Laurence Kardish, Senior Curator, Department of Film and Media. Presented with the cooperation of the artist and Marian Goodman Gallery, New York.


--- [William Kentridge 1990s Chronology | Kentridge.studio] ---
1990 to 1999 1991 WORK Makes Mine, 16mm, video transfer, 5:50 min, third animated film in series Drawings for Projection, which wins Weekly Mail Short Film Competition Makes Sobriety, Obesity and Growing Old, 16mm, video transfer, 9:00 min, fourth animated film in series Drawings for Projection EXHIBITIONS Little Morals (group), with Deborah Bell and Robert Hodgins, Taking Liberties Gallery, Durban Cape Town Triennial (group), South African National Gallery, Cape Town AWARDS Rembrandt Gold Medal, 1991 Cape Town Triennial 1992 LIFE Birth of son, Samuel Kentridge WORK Makes Easing the Passing (of the Hours), computer animation, video transfer, 10:00 min, collaboration with Deborah Bell and Robert Hodgins Conceives and directs Woyzeck on the Highveld, in collaboration with Handspring Puppet Company, premieres at National Festival of the Arts, Grahamstown; revival in 2008 at The Market Theatre, Johannesburg, and Playhouse Theatre, Perth; again in 2009 at Festival d’Automne, Paris, followed by tour to Rome, Chalons, Wroclaw, Girona, Bordeaux, Madrid, Granada, Malaga, Seville, Annecy, Mulhouse and Strasbourg; again in 2011 at Minneapolis, Chapel Hill, Milan, Combs la Ville, Sartrouville, Lisbon, London, Charleville Meziere, Bolzano, Budapest, Coventry, Belfast, Cardiff, Aberystwyth, Truro, Exeter and Oxford EXHIBITIONS Drawings for Projection (solo), Goodman Gallery, Johannesburg; travels to Vanessa Devereux Gallery, London 1993 LIFE Moves studio from Bertrams to family home in Houghton, Johannesburg EXHIBITIONS William Kentridge (solo), Ruth Bloom Gallery, Los Angeles Retrospective of seven films from 1984 to 1993 at Edinburgh International Film Festival Easing the Passing (of the Hours) (group), with Deborah Bell and Robert Hodgins, Goodman Gallery, Johannesburg 1994 WORK Makes Felix in Exile, 35mm, video transfer, 8:43 min, fifth animated film in series Drawings for Projection Makes Memo, animated film, 3:00 min, collaboration with Deborah Bell and Robert Hodgins EXHIBITIONS William Kentridge: Felix in Exile (solo), Goodman Gallery, Johannesburg. Trackings: History as Memory, Document & Object. New Works by Four South African Artists (group), with Malcolm Payne, Penny Siopis and Sue Williamson, Art First, London 1995 WORK Conceives and directs Faustus in Africa!, collaboration with Handspring Puppet Company, premieres at Kunstfest, Weimar EXHIBITIONS Eidophusikon (solo), curated by Lorna Ferguson, fourth International Biennale of Istanbul Africus (group), 1st Johannesburg Biennale, curated by Lorna Ferguson, various venues, Newtown, Johannesburg; shows Memory and Geography, collaboration with Doris Bloom, includes drawings, film and two outdoor landscape drawings, Fire Gate and Heart Drawing 1996 LIFE Relocates home from Bertrams with family to Houghton, Johannesburg WORK Makes History of the Main Complaint, 35mm, transferred to video and laser disc, 5:50 min, sixth animated film in series Drawings for Projection EXHIBITIONS Colours: Contemporary Art from South Africa, (group), curated by Alfons Hug and Sabine Vogel, Haus der Kulturen der Welt, Berlin, presents four films Faultlines: Inquiries into Truth and Reconciliation (group), curated by Jane Taylor, The Castle, Cape Town 1997 WORK Makes Ubu Tells the Truth, 35mm animated film with documentary photographs and 16mm archival film, transferred to video, 8:00 min Conceives and directs Ubu and the Truth Commission, collaboration with Handspring Puppet Company, written by Jane Taylor, premieres at Kunstfest, Weimar EXHIBITIONS Applied Drawings (solo), Goodman Gallery, Johannesburg Trade Routes: History and Geography (group), 2nd Johannesburg Biennale, curated by Okwui Enwezor, Newtown, Johannesburg; shows Ubu tells the Truth Documenta X (group), curated by Catherine David, Museum Fridericianum, Kassel; shows Felix in Exile and History of the Main Complaint Ubu: ± 101 (group), with Deborah Bell and Robert Hodgins, curated by Fiona Rankin-Smith, Observatory Museum, National Festival of the Arts, Grahamstown 1998 WORK Creates animation for, and directs production of, Il Ritorno d’Ulisse, based on opera by Claudio Monteverdi, collaboration with Handspring Puppet Company, premieres at Luna Theatre, Brussels; travels in 1998–2000 to Sofiensäle, Vienna, Hebbel Theatre, Berlin, Stads Schouwburg, Amsterdam, Werfthalle, Zurich, Monument Theatre, Grahamstown, State Theatre, Pretoria; in 2004 to Melbourne Festival; in 2007 to La Monnaie, Brussels; in 2008 to La Fenice, Venice, with further shows in Girona, Besancon, Nimes and Toulouse; in 2009 to The Moore Theatre, Seattle, Project Artaud Theater, San Francisco and Edinburgh Festival; in 2010 to Theater der Welt, Essen; in 2019 to Teatro Massimo, Palermo, and City Recital Hall, Sydney; in 2021 to Mudam: Musée d’art moderne Grand-Duc Jean, Luxembourg Makes Weighing and Wanting, 16mm, video transfer, 6:20 min, seventh animated film in series Drawings for Projection EXHIBITIONS William Kentridge: Drawings for Projection (solo), The Drawing Center, New York Weighing and Wanting (solo), curated by Hugh M. Davies, Museum of Contemporary Art, San Diego William Kentridge (solo), Stephen Friedman Gallery and A22 Gallery, London William Kentridge (solo), curated by Carolyn Christov-Bakargiev and Piet Coessens, at Palais des Beaux-Arts, Brussels 1999 LIFE Sydney Kentridge, WK’s father, becomes a Knight Commander of the British Order of St Michael and St George WORK Makes Stereoscope, 35mm animated film, video transfer, 8:22 min, eighth animated film in series Drawings for Projection Makes Shadow Procession, animated film using three-dimensional objects and paper cut-out figures, 7:15 min Makes Sleeping on Glass, animated film using three-dimensional objects, a live actor and charcoal drawing, 8:11 min Makes Overvloed, animated film for oval, domed ceiling using paper cut-out figures, shadows, text fragments, charcoal and pastel drawing, water and video footage, 6:00 min AWARDS 53rd Carnegie Prize, Carnegie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; WK is first filmmaker to be awarded prize
