=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Gurgaon kidney scandal - Wikipedia]
On 7 February 2008, Amit Kumar was arrested in the neighboring country of Nepal. He was hiding in a wildlife resort, about 35 miles from the Indo-Nepal border. He had a bank draft worth Rs. 9,36,000 along with a total of € 145,000 and $ 18,900 in cash. [13] At the resort he made an unsuccessful attempt to bribe the Nepali policemen to let him go. [14] The charges filed against him by CBI are ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gurgaon_kidney_scandal

[Kidney racket: Key accused held - Rediff.com]
Feb 7, 2008 · Dr Amit Kumar, the alleged mastermind of India's biggest kidney transplant racket, was on Thursday arrested from a jungle resort, 60 km from the Indo-Nepal border ending a long man-hunt for the ...
URL: https://www.rediff.com/news/2008/feb/07kidney.htm

[Doctor arrested over Indian kidney racket | World news]
Feb 9, 2008 — An Indian doctor suspected of being behind a kidney transplant racket was arrested in Nepal yesterday and paraded before journalists in the ...
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2008/feb/09/india.health

[डॉ. अमित नेपाल में गिरफ्तार | Kidney kingpin Amit Kumar arrested in ...]
Feb 8, 2008 · Dr Amit Kumar, the alleged mastermind of Indias biggest kidney transplant racket, was on Thursday arrested from a jungle resort, 60 km from Indo-Nepal border.| भारत में अवैध तरीके से लोगों की किडनी निकालने के मुख्य आरोपी डॉ. अमित कुमार को नेपाल में ...
URL: https://hindi.oneindia.com/news/2008/02/08/kidney-case-amit-kumar-nepal.html

[Alleged Kidney Kingpin Returned to India]
Feb 9, 2008 — Dr. Amit Kumar allegedly masterminded an organ racket in which possibly 600 kidneys were stolen or purchased from poor daily laborers and then ...
URL: https://abcnews.com/Health/story?id=4261587&page=1


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Gurgaon kidney scandal - Wikipedia] ---
The multi-billion rupee Gurgaon kidney scandal came to light in January 2008 when police arrested several people for running a kidney transplant racket in Gurgaon, an industrial township near New Delhi, India. Kidneys of most of the victims, who were the poor hailing from the nearby western Uttar Pradesh, were transplanted into clients from the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Saudi Arabia and Greece. The police raid was prompted by complaints by the locals from Moradabad about illegal kidney sales. The man accused of the scandal, Amit Kumar, was arrested in Nepal on 7 February 2008 and denied any hand in criminal activity.


--- [Kidney racket: Key accused held - Rediff.com] ---
Dr Amit Kumar, the alleged mastermind of India's biggest kidney transplant racket, was on Thursday arrested from a jungle resort, 60 km from the Indo-Nepal border ending a long man-hunt for the doctor who is believed to have conducted over 500 illegal operations in a decade. Kumar, 40, wanted by the police in Haryana and some other states, was nabbed from Hotel Wildlife Camp in Chitwan,160 km from here at 5 pm, hours after he checked in with an associate identified as Manish Singh, Minister of State for Home Ramkumar Chaudhry said. The tainted doctor against whom an Interpol red corner notice was issued after the massive racket with inter-state and international ramifications came to light on January 24 was being brought to the Nepalese capital for interrogation. CBI director Vijay Shankar said in Delhi that they would approach Nepalese authorities for handing him over to India. The doctor was found with $1,45,000 and a draft for 936 Euros in his possession. Sources said Kumar and his Nepali associate Manish Singh checked in to room number 6 of the Hotel Wildlife Camp around 10 am on Thursday. Soon after checking in the duo asked to see a copy of The Himalayan Times which had front-paged a report on the kidney racket and about the presence of the main accused in Nepal. Sources said that Dr Kumar cut out the story and returned the newspaper to the reception. Eyewitnesses who saw Dr Kumar said that he was sporting a hat and sunglasses, the newspaper said. They said a short while later a police team reached the hotel and began inquiring about the guests. The policemen showed the receptionist a picture of Dr Kumar and sought to know whether was staying in the hotel. Even as the receptionist made a positive identification, Manish Singh fled from the hotel. The police team then rushed to the room and formally arrested Dr Kumar. Last week, Interpol issued notices for the arrest of Kumar and his brother after the racket was busted in Gurgaon saying the two are the "subject of national arrest warrants for illegal transplanting of kidneys, cheating and criminal conspiracy." "It is believed that during the past eight years around 500 people were forcibly operated on and their kidneys transplanted to foreign patients in a secret operating theatre," Interpol said. Six people have been arrested in India over the scandal. The men behind the illegal operation are believed to have charged up to $ 50,000 for a kidney from clients from across the globe, according to local police. The kidneys are believed to have come from poor migrant workers, some of whom have said they were kidnapped and drugged -- although police say the illegal donors were likely to have been paid around Rs 40,000.


--- [Doctor arrested over Indian kidney racket | World news] ---
An Indian doctor suspected of being behind a kidney transplant racket was arrested in Nepal yesterday and paraded before journalists in the capital, Kathmandu. Amit Kumar, 43, is accused of running a private hospital just outside Delhi which allegedly lured or forced hundreds of poor people into giving up their kidneys, and made millions by selling their organs. Arrested in a resort 35 miles from the Indian border, Kumar had a bank draft for 900,000 rupees (£11,700) and a total of about £114,000 in euros and US dollars. Hotel staff said Kumar kept a low profile, wearing a hat and sunglasses, but aroused suspicions by cutting out stories about the kidney scam from newspapers. Police said he was attempting to flee to Canada where he owns a home. He was detained under Nepal's foreign currency laws and faces extradition to India. News of the racket emerged last month after Indian police raided hospitals and houses in Delhi. Yesterday Kumar told Nepal 1 television: "I have not committed any crime." He added that he was not running away and was confident he would be cleared. Investigators said he confessed to carrying out hundreds of kidney transplants in India, where such a trade is illegal. Police in Delhi said that Greeks, Americans and Britons had been trying to buy organs from Kumar and his team. Kumar's brother, Jeevan Rawat, 36, is the subject of an Interpol alert and is still being hunted.


--- [डॉ. अमित नेपाल में गिरफ्तार | Kidney kingpin Amit Kumar arrested in ...] ---
डॉ. अमित नेपाल में गिरफ्तार पुलिस सूत्रों के हवाले से कहा गया है कि बिहार के रक्सौल से करीब 60 किलोमीटर दूर नेपाल के सौराह में जंगल में बने रिसोर्ट से अमित को गिरफ्तार किया गया. वरिष्ठ पुलिस अधीक्षक उपेन्द्र कांत अर्याल ने सौराह में एक भारतीय के गिरफ्तार किये जाने की पुष्टि की है, लेकिन उन्होंने कहा कि गिरफ्तार व्यक्ति से पूछताछ के बाद ही उसकी सही पहचान बतायी जा सकेगी. खबर में कहा गया है कि यहां स्थित भारतीय दूतावास के अधिकारी इस गिरफ्तारी के प्रति अनभिज्ञता जता रह हैं. दूतावास के सूत्रों ने कहा है कि नेपाल द्वारा इस संबंध में औपचारिक जानकारी दिये जाने के बाद ही वह कुछ कह सकेगा. समाचार पत्र के अनुसार अमित अपने एक नेपाली सहयोगी मनीष सिंह के साथ सुबह 10 बजे होटल वाइल्ड लाइफ् कैंप में सिंह के नाम से कमरा नंबर छह में ठहरने आया. प्रत्यक्षदशियों द्वारा अमति के होटल में होने सूचना दिये जाने के बाद तत्काल पुलिस मौके पर पहुंच गयी और होटल में ठहरे अतिथियों के बारे में पूछताछ करने लगी. रिस्पेशनिस्ट द्वारा अमित की तस्वीर को पहचाने के बाद पुलिस दल कमरा नबंर छह में गया और उसे गिरफ्तार कर लिया. हालांकि उसका सहयोगी भागने में सफल रहा.


--- [Alleged Kidney Kingpin Returned to India] ---
Alleged Kidney Kingpin Returned to India "I have not duped anyone," doctor says, amid allegations of kidney thefts. MUMBAI, India, Feb. 9, 2008— -- The doctor believed to be behind an international illegal kidney scam was returned to India Saturday, two days after his capture in Nepal. Dr. Amit Kumar allegedly masterminded an organ racket in which possibly 600 kidneys were stolen or purchased from poor daily laborers and then transplanted into the bodies of wealthy Indians and foreigners. "I have not duped anyone," Kumar told reporters in Nepal after his capture. But when Nepal police questioned the doctor for 36 hours about the kidney racket, Dr. Kumar admitted that he was trying to buy a guesthouse in Nepal and had planned to shift his base from India to Kathmandu, according to NDTV. Kumar was expected to be in court in Kathmandu on Sunday morning, but Nepal's minister for peace and reconstruction, Ram Chandra Paudel, announced late on Saturday afternoon that the doctor would be handed over to Indian authorities. Kumar was flown to Delhi shortly thereafter, accompanied by India's Central Bureau of Investigation, which has now taken over the investigation. Upon arrival, Kumar was taken to CBI for interrogation. He is expected in court in Delhi on Sunday morning. Kumar was found in a jungle resort in Sauraha, Nepal, about 40 miles from the Indian border. The doctor was apparently noticed by a receptionist after he clipped an article about himself from an Indian newspaper, local media reported. He was found with the equivalent of $230,000 in cash and a check for $24,000, according to police. On Friday, Kumar was brought from the resort to Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, according to Interpol, which worked with Nepali authorities to make the arrest. Kumar has been on the run for 14 years, most recently for what authorities say was a scam in which about 600 kidneys were forcibly taken or purchased from victims, then transplanted into the bodies of wealthy Indians or foreigners. Indian authorities hope Kumar will be extradited soon, but Kumar will first be charged and tried in Nepal for violating the Foreign Currency Act by not declaring the cash he was carrying. Police were also investigating whether he was involved in illegal kidney transplants in Nepal. Only after Kumar is tried in Nepal would he be brought to India, said Majit Ahlawat, Gurgaon joint police commissioner. Two weeks ago, Gurgaon police say they raided a home belonging to Kumar on the outskirts of Delhi, where they found a hidden state-of-the-art operating room in which many of the surgeries are said to have taken place. Five foreign tourists -- including two Americans -- waiting for kidneys were found in what police described as a "luxury guest house" owned by the doctor. The Americans' passports were being held until they gave authorities more details about the illegal kidney racket. A waiting list of about 30 foreigners from at least five countries was also discovered, police said.
