=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Nexhmije Pagarusha - Wikipedia]
A song "Baresha" (The Shepherdess), is one of her most popular songs which is known as crown jewel of Albanian music. It was composed by her husband, Rexho Mulliqi and the lyrics were written by Rifat Kukaj. Pagarusha played in many theatre plays and movies and also as an actress she won many prizes.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nexhmije_Pagarusha

["Baresha", testament of the Albanian song - KOHA.net]
Sung by the Nightingale of Kosovo, Nexhmije Pagarusha (May 7, 1933 - February 7, 2020) "Baresha" became the most famous Albanian song since it was performed for the first time around 1970. The song, which a composer calls "a notice" of Albanian music, which was composed for a festival in Yugoslavia at that time.
URL: https://www.koha.net/en/shtojca-kulture/baresha-testament-i-kenges-shqipe

[Nexhmije Pagarusha's "Baresha" is translated into English]
Oct 5, 2022 · The famous song “Baresha” by Nexhmije Pagarusha has already been translated into English. The translation of the text “Baresha”, composed by Rexho Mulliqi and with the text written by the writer Rifat Kukaj, performed by Boiken Abazi. Baresha / Barija Short translations of lyricism in Albanian songs (Prishtina) ends the cycle.
URL: https://atlantiku.com/culture/nexhmije-pagarushas-baresha-is-translated-into-english/2022/10/05/

[Albanian music legend Nexhmije Pagarusha disappears]
She completed her music school in Belgrade, and throughout her artistic career has performed in concerts in various parts of the world, making Kosovo famous everywhere. Her best known song is "Baresha", composed by her husband Regjo Mulliqi. In his youth Nexhmije Pagarusha sang works translated by Beethoven, Verdi and many great names.
URL: https://www.classlifestyle.com/news/41129/shuhet-legjenda-e-muzikes-shqiptare-nexhmije-pagarusha/eng/

[Nexhmije Pagarusha (1933-2020), "The Nightingale" of Kosovo!]
"Baresha" is one of the masterpieces of her interpretation. This song was composed by her husband Rexhep Mulliqi, with lyrics by the poet Rifat Kukaj. Nexhmije Pagarusha performed the Albanian translated works of Beethoven, Puccini, Verdi, etc. in a classical music concert. This concert was the first of its kind.
URL: https://www.kinematografia-shqiptare-sporti.com/nexhmije-pagarusha-1933-2020-nightingale-of-kosovo/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Nexhmije Pagarusha - Wikipedia] ---
Nexhmije Pagarusha[a]  (Albanian pronunciation: [neˈd͡ʒmijɛ pagaˈɾuʃa]; 7 May 1933 – 7 February 2020) was a Kosovan singer and actress, sometimes referred to as the Queen of Albanian music by her admirers in Kosovo. Pagarusha gained acclaim as a recording artist in Kosova and neighbouring countries for her distinct soprano vocal range, which she displayed performing various Albanian folk songs during her career, which spanned 36 years, from 1948, in her debut in Radio Prishtina, to 1984, in her final concert in Sarajevo. Her music style was not limited just to Albanian music, as she performed rock, pop, funk, opera/classical, and many more.


--- ["Baresha", testament of the Albanian song - KOHA.net] ---
No content


--- [Nexhmije Pagarusha's "Baresha" is translated into English] ---
The famous song “Baresha” by Nexhmije Pagarusha has already been translated into English. The translation of the text “Baresha”, composed by Rexho Mulliqi and with the text written by the writer Rifat Kukaj, performed by Boiken Abazi. Baresha / Barija Short translations of lyricism in Albanian songs (Prishtina) ends the cycle. The shepherdess Hey I’ve grown up, Amid these mountains, Lambs and sheep alongside, Thickets where nightingales reside, After the bell, joy and games, As my eagle sways. (Chorus 1) Oh, wind plays with grass oh nani nani, Oh come girls and play oh nani nani, Oh the field is delighting oh nani nani, Oh the white flower’s laughing oh nani nani, Oh, the mount trembles what’s the fuss? A shepherdess parted from us, Oh, the mount trembles what’s the fuss? A shepherdess parted from us (Chorus 2) Oh, wind plays with grass oh nani nani, Oh come girls and play oh nani nani, Oh the field is delighting oh nani nani, Oh the white flower’s laughing oh nani nani, Oh, the mount trembles what’s the fuss? Shepherdesses play on open grass, Oh, the mount trembles what’s the fuss? Shepherdesses play on open grass na-ni-na-ni-na-ni-na… na-ni-na-ni-na-ni-na… Hey many bells are resounding, Babbling’s heard through the creek high, The snowy mountain in the sky, Love in mountains comes with yearning, Today a flute is burning! (Chorus 1/2) Oh, wind plays with grass oh nani nani, Oh come girls and play oh nani nani Oh the field is delighting oh nani nani Oh the white flower’s laughing oh nani nani Oh, the mount trembles what’s the fuss? A shepherdess parted from us, Oh, the mount trembles what’s the fuss? Shepherdesses play on open grass. *** Hej kam rrit shtatin, Ndër këto male, Bashk’ me qingja e me dele, Dhe bylbylat ndër zabele, Mbas kumonës lojë e gezime, Si shqiponja ime (Refreni 1) O era lun me barin o nani nani, O eni shoqe t’lozim o nani nani, O fusha gaz po m’veshet o nani nani, O lule bardh’ po qeshet o nani nani, O dridhet mali, çka u ba? O një baresh’ prej nesh u nda, O dridhet mali, cka u ba? O një baresh’ prej nesh u nda. (Refreni 2) O era lun me barin o nani nani O eni shoqe t’lozim o nani nani O fusha gaz po m’veshet o nani nani, O lule bardh’ po qeshet o nani nani O dridhet mali, cka u ba? O një baresh’ prej nesh u nda, O dridhet mali, cka u ba? O lujn bareshat në shulla na-ni-na-ni-na-ni-na… na-ni-na-ni-na-ni-na… Hej po tingllojnë shumë kumona, Po gurgëllon prroni malore, Lart në qiell bjeshka me bore, N’bjeshk’ dashnia vjen me malle, Sot nji fyell u kalle! (Refreni 1/2) O era lun me barin o nani nani O eni shoqet t’lozim o nani nani O fusha gaz po m’veshet o nani nani O lule bardh’ po qeshet o nani nani O dridhet mali cka u ba? O një baresh’ prej nesh u nda. O dridhet mali cka u ba? O lujn bareshat në shulla na-ni-na-ni-na-ni-na… na-ni-na-ni-na-ni-na…


--- [Albanian music legend Nexhmije Pagarusha disappears] ---
He is separated from life today, at the age of 86, "Kosovo's Bilbil", the legend of Albanian music Nexhmije Pagarusha. It was initially her daughter, Cuce Pagarusha who, through a post on social media, shared the news of mourning with all her relatives, lovers and those who knew and loved the great artist's vocals and songs. It has long been known that she was suffering from a serious illness, but today she died forever! Who was Nexhmije Pagarusha? He was born on May 7, 1933 in Pagarusha. She is known as a woman who throughout her career has served her country with art and honor. She completed her music school in Belgrade, and throughout her artistic career has performed in concerts in various parts of the world, making Kosovo famous everywhere. Her best known song is "Baresha", composed by her husband Regjo Mulliqi. In his youth Nexhmije Pagarusha sang works translated by Beethoven, Verdi and many great names. Throughout her career she has sung over 150 songs The whistle of the Albanian song has been compared to the world's biggest stars. In addition to music she has also been an actress. He has starred in many films and has been described by filmmakers as a perfect actress. She has held concerts in various countries around the world, such as in Israel, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in Kosovo and Albania without a doubt. In 2018, the queen of Albanian music, Nexhmije Pagarusha, was decorated with the "Gratitude" medal by US President Donald Trump. The award was given to singer Pagarusha through the nomination of a Florida Academy, which is an annual periodical award signed by the US President for personalities that impact on people and their societies, specifically in the field of art. President Ilir Meta, personalities of different fields from Albania and Kosovo, family, friends were present at the ceremony organized for the 85th anniversary of the birth of the great Albanian artist at the Academy of Arts in Tirana by the Association RessEgnatia and the Union of Albanian Journalists. , artists and art lovers.


--- [Nexhmije Pagarusha (1933-2020), "The Nightingale" of Kosovo!] ---
Nexhmije Pagarusha (1933-2020) Prominent Albanian singer and actress. “The Primadonna of Folk Melosi” – “The Nightingale of Kosovo” The Albanian artist Nexhmije Pagarusha was born on May 7, 1933, in the village of Pagarusha in Malisheva, Kosovo. When talking about her, many epithets are used in one breath, such as: “The nightingale of Kosovo”, “Queen of Albanian song”, “Prima donna of Folk Melosi”, “Ema Sumak Albanian”, “Madam Butterfly”, “Crystal Throat”, etc. Received many awards, including “Singer of the Century”. Her 40-year musical career is so extensive that it is difficult to say which genre she belongs to. She is known for her excellent performances in folk music and opera. Nexhmije Pagarusha was also a successful actress, both in film and theater. In Belgrade, she attended music school for solo singing, which she left in the third year and did not continue. Pagarusha also had her first musical performance on stage in Belgrade. In 1948, she was accepted as a soloist at Radio Prishtina. Also collaborated with singers from Albania and appeared in Albania with the ensemble “Shota” on the occasion of a tour. “Baresha” is one of the masterpieces of her interpretation. This song was composed by her husband Rexhep Mulliqi, with lyrics by the poet Rifat Kukaj. Nexhmije Pagarusha performed the Albanian translated works of Beethoven, Puccini, Verdi, etc. in a classical music concert. This concert was the first of its kind. Unfortunately, none of the technical organizers had remembered to record this concert! Unfortunately, not even all the concerts and the repertoire of songs sung by her have been recorded, because, as she once said, only music was important to her; she and music were one. Nexhmije Pagarusha was also a talented actress in addition to being a singer, where she performed skillfully in films and theatrical performances. From 1967 when she debuted in “Bloody Wedding” until 1997 in “Murderers do weddings at night” is counted in over 10 films performed successfully. Meanwhile, in music as a singer, her career has reached the highest heights of success, whether in the genre of light music, in opera or in folk music. She is thought to have performed over 150 songs. She was a participant of concerts in Kosovo, Albania, Bulgaria, Israel, etc. Pagarusha ended her musical career in 1984, after a concert in Sarajevo. After 16 years away from the stage, she appeared in 2000 with the song “Për ty” in a show led by Ardit Gjebrea, who convinced her to do it. She was on the jury of the “Magic Song 2005” festival. Pagarusha was a senior advisor for music at Radio Kosovo and Radio Blue Sky. Musical works. Nexhmije Pagarusha passed away on February 7, 2020. Some of her songs: “Baresha“ / ”Ani mori nuse” / ”Mora testin” “Kur më shkon si zog n’hava” / “Kur më del në derë” / ”Ke selvitë” “Ç’u ngrit lulja në mëngjes” / “Çil njat zemër plot kujtime” “Dallëndyshe” / “Një lule” / “Zambaku i Prizrenit” Performed in films and theater plays: “Bloody wedding” (1967) “Jugovizioni” (1973) “Happy New Year” (1976) “I bite the dark” (1977) “I ikuri”. (1980) “Three persons Over the Mountain” (1981) “The Five-Legged Rabbit” “Micaku’s Flight”; “Drums of Madmen”, “Rexha of mother in the Horse Manger”, “Murderers Get Married at Night” (1997) ___________ Cinematography Albanian in activity since 2013 Follow us: Blog: https://albaniancinematography.blogspot.com/ Vimeo: Albanian Cinematography (vimeo.com) Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ksh.faqjazyrtare Dailymotion: https://www.dailymotion.com/kinetografiashqiptareartisporti YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCDRYQ5xCyGkfELm3mX8Rhtw Discover more from Albanian Cinematography - Sport Subscribe to get the latest posts sent to your email.
