=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Sacred Spaces: Frank Lloyd Wright and Andrew Pielage]
Wright's introduction to religion came early as both his father, William Cary Wright (1825-1904), and his Welsh grandfather, Richard Lloyd Jones (1799-1885), were Unitarian ministers.
URL: https://fallingwater.org/visit/exhibitions/sacred-spaces-frank-lloyd-wright-and-andrew-pielage/

[Wright - buffaloah.com]
Frank Lloyd Wright was born on June 8, 1867, in Richland Center, Wisconsin, to Anna Lloyd-Jones Wright, a teacher whose large Welsh family of farmers and ministers settled the valley that became Taliesin, and William Russell Cary Wright, a preacher and musician. An early influence was his clergyman father's playing of Bach and Beethoven.
URL: https://buffaloah.com/a/archs/wright/bio/

[Frank Lloyd Wright - U.S. Department of State]
Frank Lloyd Wright was born in Richland Center, Wisconsin, and died in Phoenix, Arizona at the age of 91. His father was William Carey Wright, a preacher and a musician. His mother was Anna Lloyd Jones, a teacher whose large Welsh family settled the valley area near Spring Green, Wisconsin, where Wright later built his home, Taliesin.
URL: https://art.state.gov/personnel/frank_lloyd_wright/

[Frank Lloyd Wright]
Originally from Massachusetts, William Wright had served as a Baptist minister, but he later joined the Unitarian faith through his wife's family. Wright's ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Lloyd_Wright

[History - First Unitarian Society]
Frank Lloyd Wright's father was among the founders of the First Unitarian ... Harold and Helen Groves had opposed the hiring of Frank Lloyd Wright initially, but ...
URL: https://fusmadison.org/welcome/who-we-are/history/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Sacred Spaces: Frank Lloyd Wright and Andrew Pielage] ---
Exhibitions at the Speyer Gallery Available through September 10, 2023 Expanding our knowledge of Frank Lloyd Wright’s architecture and challenging our assumptions about “sacred” space, Sacred Spaces: Frank Lloyd Wright and Andrew Pielage, curated by architectural journalist Sam Lubell and organized by Fallingwater, Beth Sholom Preservation Foundation, the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation, and Taliesin Preservation, Inc., features photographs captured by Andrew Pielage (b. 1977) over his decade-long project to document Wright’s work. Juxtaposing what may be considered “traditional” places of worship with “iconic” Wright houses, museums, and civic spaces allows for a comparison between reverence for a higher power and the awe of our natural surroundings. Wright thought about space in a fundamentally different way from his contemporaries, and sacred spaces were no exception. He did not design his religious buildings like typical places of worship with a prescribed organization of space, imagery, and heavenly inspiration. His philosophy on religion was one that emphasized self-reliance and personal insight over doctrine, and expressed divinity through man and nature rather than an all-powerful creator. Wright’s introduction to religion came early as both his father, William Cary Wright (1825-1904), and his Welsh grandfather, Richard Lloyd Jones (1799-1885), were Unitarian ministers. Crucially influential was Wright’s maternal uncle, Jenkin Lloyd Jones (1843-1918), the famously unorthodox Chicago preacher who advocated a rethinking of Unitarianism, with a focus on independence, rationality, and free will and, like many religious liberals of his time, also upheld a view of divinity focused on earth, not in heaven. As a child, Wright absorbed the tenets of Transcendentalism, a Unitarian-inspired movement that believed there is a divine spirit in nature and in every living soul. He especially devoured the writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), whose most influential work, Nature (1836), called for a relationship to the universe that is based on observation and intuition, not tradition. “Every man has through his own existence, intuitively, an understanding of nature,” Emerson wrote, charging the reader to build their own world, free of the past. “Nature is, as we are, fluid, and moulded by the spirit which we find within ourselves.” As Wright began to travel extensively, he was drawn to Eastern philosophy, particularly Taoism, which emphasized balance between humans and nature, and the unity of all spirits. Discussing his concept of organic architecture, he wrote that architecture “develops from within outward in harmony with the conditions of being.” Wright pointed to ancient Taoist philosopher Lao Tze, who “first declared that the reality of the building consisted not in the four walls and the roof but inhered in the space within, the space to be lived in.” With Unity Temple (Oak Park, IL; 1908), Wright’s first major religious commission, the architect stunned the traditional establishment with its poured concrete facade, square plan, illuminated skylights, and little resemblance to established ecclesiastical design. Wright noted that the congregation’s pastor had at first been trapped in the tradition of “the little white New England churches,” but the architect clearly swayed him. The Unitarian Meeting House (Madison, WI; 1951) shares more with Wright’s Usonian houses than any familiar place of worship, with its concrete floors, large fireplaces, wide overhanging eaves, and a low unobtrusive entryway. All spaces flow into the next, and the space is designed to unify religious and community activities. Wright considered every one of his works to be sacred in some way—infused with the divinity of nature, channeled through humanity, and, by extension, architecture. Assembling “sticks and stones” to make them stand is not architecture. “No,” he felt. “It is the knowledge to make something sing with the beauty that we associated with the high-minded human spirit.” About the Artist Andrew Pielage Andrew Pielage has photographed 108 Frank Lloyd Wright sites around the country and has been published in newspapers, magazines and websites from CNN to the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation’s quarterly magazine. Born to an adventurous mother and a geologist father, his childhood was spent exploring the dusty backroads of the American Southwest. This constant desert travel rooted his artistic soul in landscape photography. In his hometown, Pielage discovered the beautiful relationship of landscape and design in the architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright. Wright inspired his passion for this relationship and his mission to photograph all of Wright’s remaining designs. With over 20 years of experience, including international ad campaigns and publications, television features, exhibitions and workshops, Pielage continues to do what he loves: capture the soul of his subjects and inspire imagination through photography and education.


--- [Wright - buffaloah.com] ---
F. L. Wright in Buffalo - Table of Contents ............ John Larkin - Table of Contents ..... Arts & Crafts in Buffalo - Table of Contents Frank Lloyd Wright - Biography TEXT Beneath Illustrations Unity Chapel Louis Sullivan Wright's home and studio in Oak Park Walter Gale, "Bootleg" House, Oak Park, IL, 1893 Thomas Gale, "Bootleg" House, Oak Park, IL, 1893 Larkin Factory, Buffalo, NY Unity Temple, Oak Park Martin House, Buffalo Robie House, Chicago "Mamah" Cheney Taliesin East, Wisconsin Graycliff, Derby, NY Barnsdall House, "Hollyhock House," Los Angeles, 1916-20 Fallingwater, Bear Run, Pa. Johnson Wax Building Taliesin West, Scottsdale, Arizona Joseph Mollica House, Milwaukee, WI, 1956 Guggenheim Museum, N.Y.C. | | Frank Lloyd Wright was born on June 8, 1867, in Richland Center, Wisconsin, to Anna Lloyd-Jones Wright, a teacher whose large Welsh family of farmers and ministers settled the valley that became Taliesin, and William Russell Cary Wright, a preacher and musician. An early influence was his clergyman father's playing of Bach and Beethoven. (Later on Wright would make comparisons to music and architecture in relation to the mathematical aspects of both.) Before her son was born, Anna had decided that her son was going to be a great architect. She placed pictures of buildings in his nursery and bedroom during his younger years to inspire him to become an architect. Using Froebel's geometric blocks to entertain and educate her son, young Frank was given free run of the playroom filled with paste, paper, and cardboard. Financial troubles plagued the William Wright family and eventually they would return to the support of the Lloyd-Jones clan in the hills of Wisconsin. Between 1878 and 1885, the family lived in Madison, but young Frank spent the summers on his Uncle James's farm near the Taliesin hill. He always considered the valley to be his home. "As a boy," he wrote in his autobiography, "I learned to know the ground plan of the region in every line and feature. For me now its elevation is the modeling of the hills, the weaving and fabric that clings to them, the look of it all in tender green or covered with snow or in full glow of summer that bursts into the glorious blaze of autumn. I still feel myself as much a part of it as the trees and birds and bees are, and the red barns." Wright's father and mother divorced in 1885 and Wright never saw his father again. Wright would later change his middle name to Lloyd. To help support the family, Wright worked for Allan Conover, a Dean of the University of Wisconsin's department of Engineering. Wright spent two semesters studying civil engineering at the University. In 1886, he executed the working drawings for the interior and helped with construction of Unity Chapel for his uncle Jenkin Lloyd Jones. The chapel was designed by architect Joseph Lyman Silsbee (a family friend). Wright then designed the original Hillside Home School for his aunts, Jennie and Ellen Lloyd Jones. In 1887, Wright moved to Chicago and took a job with Joseph Lyman Silsbee. Chicago during the late nineteenth century was an exciting place. The fire of 1871 destroyed most of the old city allowing for it to be rebuilt in the new industrial age. Skyscrapers were the all the rage in architecture, using steel and glass to create "shrines" piercing the sky. This complimented the trend in residential homes where Victorian influence created pointed gables, lace-like ornamentation, plaster walls, and wooden structures. The Adler and Sullivan Years: 1888-1893 A year later, 1888, Wright moved to the well-known Dankmar Adler and Louis Sullivan firm as a draftsman where he worked directly under Sullivan for six years. Sullivan was one of the few influences Wright ever acknowledged. Wright picked up on the philosophy of Sullivan and was so loyally devoted to his employer that he soon moved ahead of Alder in importance within the firm. Sullivan was extremely critical of classicism which was appearing across the USA during the 1890's in reaction the 1893 Chicago World's Fair exhibits. Sullivan, known for his integrated ornamentation based on natural themes, developed the maxim "Form Follows Function" which Wright later revised to "Form and Function Are One." Sullivan also believed in an American architecture based on American themes not on tradition or European styles - an idea that Wright was later to develop. Wright's relationship with his employer caused great amounts of tension between Wright and fellow draftsmen, and well as in-between Sullivan and Alder. When Wright left the company, Sullivan's quantity of contracts declined quickly. Many years later, the two renewed their friendship. Wright often referred to Sullivan as his "Lieber Meister," or beloved master. Wright and Sullivan abruptly parted company in 1893 when Sullivan discovered that Wright had been accepting commissions for "bootleg" house designs on his own, a violation of an earlier agreement between the two. The moonlighting work showed the beginning of Wright's low, sheltering roof lines, the prominence of the central fireplace, and "the destruction of the box" open floor plans. Wright opened his own practice first in the Schiller Building in Chicago, then soon after in his home in Oak Park. The Oak Park Years: 1895-1909 In 1895, Wright expanded the living space of his home in Oak Park. During the marriage to Catherine, six children would be born. In 1898, he added a studio, a separate entity although connected to the house. The extraordinary home and studio complex -- now a museum (home page) -- served as Wright's architectural laboratory from 1889 to 1909, the years that launched his career. Here he conceived the Prairie style of architecture, testing ideas that found their fullest expression in many of the surrounding homes in Oak Park that he designed for clients. Many of his employees, including Barry Byrne, William Drummond, Walter Burley Griffin, and Marion Mahoney, also went on to significant architectural careers. From the studio complex, Wright designed more than 150 structures over the next decade. During this time, Wright developed a uniquely personal approach to residential design and imparted his principles to the architects who worked with him, ultimately fostering the Prairie School of Architecture. Wright took an integral approach to architecture by designing the interior furnishings of the building as well as the structure. He seemed to possess a skill of site memorization, and would visit the grounds sometimes only once before creating a building which blended with and complimented the site. Wright believed that architecture should create a natural link between mankind and his environment. "Organic architecture" as Wright came to call his work, should reflect the individual needs of the client, the nature of the site, and the native materials available. Some of Wright's most notable designs during this period were for "Prairie Houses." These houses reflected the long, low horizontal Prairie on which they sat. They had low pitched roofs, deep overhangs, no attics or basements, and generally long rows of casement windows that further emphasized the horizontal theme. He used native materials and the woodwork was stained, never painted, to bring out its natural beauty. This was his first effort at creating a new, indigenous American architecture. Other Chicago architects were also working in this same manner and the movement became known as "The Prairie School." Although Wright himself rejected that label, he became its chief practitioner. One of his most famous talks, "The Art and Craft of the Machine" was delivered in 1901 at Hull House in Chicago. It marked the first decisive acceptance of the machine by an American architect and was widely hailed. The Arts and Crafts Movement, popular at the time, believed that much of the decline in quality craftsmanship was directly attributable to the machine. Wright, by contrast, embraced the machine and urged its use, not to imitate fancy hand-carving, but to bring out the simplicity and beauty of wood. This emphasis on simplicity and his insistence that natural materials be treated naturally, was a hallmark of his work. Wright was associated with the Oak Park Unitarian Universalist congregation when they asked him to design a new church after their wooden church burned during a storm in 1905. The Unity Temple in Oak Park (home page) is one of the earliest public buildings constructed of concrete, poured in place into wooden molds. Wright was led to choose concrete because it was, in his words, "cheap," and yet could be made as dignified as more traditional masonry. His desire to create a house of worship expressing the powerful simplicity of ancient temples prompted his suggestion that it be called a "temple" rather than a church. In 1905 Wright traveled with his wife Catherine to Japan and began collecting and dealing in Japanese prints. 1903-06 Wright designed the Martin House in Buffalo, New York (which introduced the horizontal bands of windows, a prominent feature of his later houses). By 1907 he started to shock the Midwestern moral majority by flaunting married women in his grand, open car. Like a Secessionist "artiste," he let his hair grow over the collar. He wore expensive clothes, flowing neckties, riding breeches and Norfolk jacket - not the attire for the Oak Park commuter. He had reached the height of his Prairie School Style. Mamah Cheney In 1909 Wright moved his family into the studio and rented out the main part of the house, and soon thereafter he left his family and practice in Oak Park - accompanied by by his lover, Martha "Mamah" Borthwick Cheney (the wife of one of his clients). It was discovered that while in Europe, Wright and Mamah had registered as Mr. and Mrs. Wright. Expectedly this caused a scandal in the States. It was hard for Kitty (Catherine) to admit that the marriage was over when Frank left for Europe. Kitty would not grant Frank a divorce until 1923. Wright returned to Oak Park in 1910 (but not to his home and family), and the following year, he began building a new home and studio near Spring Green, Wisconsin. The complex, called Taliesin, was built on ancestral farmland. On Christmas Day, 1913, following Mrs. Cheney's divorce, he announced she would live with him at Taliesin. In 1914, Taliesin was set afire by Julian Carleton, a crazed servant who, newspapers reported, was underpaid and driven mad by the unconventional lovers. He started a fire during lunch, locked all the doors except for the lower half of a Dutch door, and as Mamah and each of her two children and four of Wright's leading workmen crawled out, he chopped off their heads. Although stunned by the tragedy, Wright began rebuilding Taliesin immediately, with completion in about a year. Following the completion of "Taliesin II," he met sculptress Maud Miriam Noel who joined him at Taliesin. He opened an office in Tokyo. Wright spent approximately six years (1916-22) working on Tokyo's Imperial Hotel, which was initially criticized for its aesthetic design, but when it survived a 1923 earthquake, which left the majority of Tokyo in rubble, it found praise. Wright had managed to design a "floating foundation" for the building which combined oriental simplicity, in modern world comfort. (The hotel was demolished in 1968; however, the entrance lobby was saved and was rebuilt at an architectural park near Nagoya, Japan.) Returning to the United States in 1922, .Wright opened an office in Los Angeles, California. where he pursued the use of a new material in residential homes: concrete. Most of these "textile block" houses were built in California with a Mayan and Japanese influence. In 1922, Wright was formally divorced from Catherine (who died in 1959, the same year that he died). In 1923, Wright's mother, Anna, died in February. He married Miriam Noel in November. Miriam's addiction to morphine is often thought to be the cause of bouts of maniac fantasy. She left Wright in 1924, less than one year after their marriage. Soon after Miriam Noel walked out on Wright, quite by chance, at a performance of the Petrograd Ballet, he met. Olga (Olgivanna) Lazovich Hinzenburg, daughter of Montenegro's Chief Justice and granddaughter of Duke Marko Milanov. In 1925, Wright started a practice in Chicago. In February, Olgivanna and her 8-year-old daughter moved into Taliesin. In April, a fire started by defective telephone wiring caused $250,000 - $500,000 worth of damage, and during the fire neighbors not only helped douse the flames, but helped themselves to some of Wright's oriental art, as well. He began construction of Taliesin III. In November, as a result of his living arrangement with Olgivanna, his wife Miriam began legal action. In December, daughter Iovanna was born to Wright and Olgivanna. In 1926, Olgivanna's former husband pursued custody of his daughter. Wright and Olgivanna were accused of violating the Mann Act and were arrested in Minnesota in October. The Bank of Wisconsin foreclosed on Taliesin. In 1927, a third fire at Taliesin caused loss of significant pieces of Asian artwork and damaged the studio. Part of the remaining Japanese art collection was auctioned in March to pay debts. The Bank of Wisconsin sold livestock at Taliesin in April and moved to take possession of the house. Miriam conceded to a divorce in August. Wright worked with some friends to regain Taliesin; as a result, "Wright, Incorporated" took legal ownership of Taliesin. Also in 1927, Graycliff, a summer home for Drawin Martin's family, was completed. In 1928, Wright Married Olgivanna, his third marriage. In 1932, at the age of 65, he published "An Autobiography" and "The Disappearing City" both of which influenced several generations of young architects. Usonian Wright's last "style," Usonian, was caused by a shift in society in the 1930's. Adapting architecture to the simple and economically tight lives of families in the 1930's, Wright used down scaling to bring the house to a more appropriate human level and reflect the informal and comfortable lives of the average American family. The Taliesin Fellowship During the Great Depression, with almost no architectural commissions coming his way, Wright and his wife Olgivanna founded an architectural apprenticeship program at Taliesin in 1932. The school was known as the "Taliesin Fellowship." It was, according to Wright and his wife, established to provide a total learning environment, integrating all aspects of the apprentices' lives in order to produce responsible, creative and cultured human beings, an idea comparable to that of a medieval manorial estate. Apprentices were to gain experience not only in architecture but also in construction, farming, gardening and cooking, and the study of nature, music, art and dance. Wright taught principles and philosophies of architecture, not a style. The Fellowship opened with thirty apprentices. During the thirties, Wright formed a social vision, associating the evils of society with the modern city. This was expressed through his design of Broadacre City, a section of an idealistic decentralized and restructured nation resembling not a city and not an agrarian community, but something in between. In 1935, Wright designed Fallingwater in Bear Run, Pennsylvania. In 1936, Wright designed S.C. Johnson & Son Administration Building in Racine, Wisconsin. In 1937, Wright decided he wanted a more permanent winter residence in Arizona and he acquired several hundred acres of raw, rugged desert at the foothills of the McDowell Mountains in Scottsdale, Arizona. Here he and the Taliesin Fellowship began the construction of Taliesin West as a "Desert Camp" where they planned to live each winter to escape the harsh Wisconsin weather. "Taliesin West is a look over the rim of the world," in the architect's own words. It was a bold new endeavor for desert living. Taliesin West would serve as Wright's architectural laboratory for more than 20 years. There he tested design innovations, structural ideas, and building details. Taliesin West was for many years Wright's winter "camp" where he and his young apprentices took on the task of building their home, shop, school and studio, all the while responding to the dramatic desert setting. In 1943, Wright began the design for Guggenheim Museum in New York City. (He died during its construction, six months before the museum opened). Wright published "The Natural House" in 1954. This book discussed the Usonian home and a new concept called the "Usonian Automatic" - a house that could be owner built. His "Usonian" homes, which proved to be just as popular as his Prairie houses, were moderate-cost, single-story houses featuring such innovations as radiant heating (through hot water pipes placed in the cement slab floor); prefabricated walls made of boards and tar paper (a cheap and efficient building technique); an open plan with greater flow of space; and the invention of the carport. In 1959, Wright died at age 91 in Phoenix, Arizona. The Fellowship and their work continued under Olgivanna's leadership. Olgivanna died in 1985. The ashes of Olgivanna and Wright lie together at Taliesin West. Of the more than 1100 projects Wright had designed during his lifetime, nearly one-third were created during the last decade of his life. So great is his fame that, following his death, he was honored with his own U.S. postage stamp, as well as a song, "So Long, Frank Lloyd Wright," written by the popular musical duo, Simon and Garfunkel. Main sources: | | See also: Frank Lloyd Wright: Designs for an American Landscape, 1922-1932 (online Nov. 2019) |


--- [Frank Lloyd Wright - U.S. Department of State] ---
Frank Lloyd Wright was born in Richland Center, Wisconsin, and died in Phoenix, Arizona at the age of 91. His father was William Carey Wright, a preacher and a musician. His mother was Anna Lloyd Jones, a teacher whose large Welsh family settled the valley area near Spring Green, Wisconsin, where Wright later built his home, Taliesin. Wright had two sisters, Jane (1869) and Maginel (1877). His family life was nomadic and unsettled in the early years. Before arriving in Madison in 1878, Wright lived in Rhode Island, Iowa, and Massachusetts, in addition to Wisconsin. In Madison, Wright’s father was a pastor of the Unitarian Church. Wright lived in Madison from about age 11 until about age 20. At age 11 Wright also began spending summers with his uncle James Lloyd Jones on his farm located near the Taliesin hill. Those early years in the Wisconsin countryside had a profound effect on Wright: “As a boy,” he wrote in his autobiography, “I learned to know the ground plan of the region in every line and feature. For me now its elevation is the modeling of the hills, the weaving and fabric that clings to them, the look of it all in tender green or covered with snow or in full glow of summer that bursts into the glorious blaze of autumn. I still feel myself as much a part of it as the trees and birds and bees are, and the red barns.” Wright’s father and mother divorced in 1885 and Wright never saw his father again. To help support the family, Wright worked for Allan Conover, a dean of the University of Wisconsin’s department of Engineering. Wright spent two semesters studying civil engineering at the University of Wisconsin and also assisted architect Joseph Lyman Silsbee draft and supervise the construction of Unity Chapel (the Lloyd Jones family chapel still standing near Taliesin.)


--- [Frank Lloyd Wright] ---
Frank Lloyd Wright Sr. (June 8, 1867 – April 9, 1959) was an American architect, designer, writer, and educator. He designed more than 1,000 structures over a creative period of 70 years. Wright played a key role in the architectural movements of the twentieth century, influencing architects worldwide through his works and mentoring hundreds of apprentices in his Taliesin Fellowship. Wright believed in designing in harmony with humanity and the environment, a philosophy he called organic architecture. This philosophy was exemplified in Fallingwater (1935), which has been called "the best all-time work of American architecture".
Wright was a pioneer of what came to be called the Prairie School movement of architecture and also developed the concept of the Usonian home within Broadacre City, his vision for urban planning in the United States. Wright also designed original and innovative offices, churches, schools, skyscrapers, hotels, museums, and other commercial projects. Wright-designed interior elements (including leaded glass windows, floors, furniture and even tableware) were integrated into these structures. He wrote several books and numerous articles and was a popular lecturer in the United States and in Europe. Wright was recognized in 1991 by the American Institute of Architects as "the greatest American architect of all time". In 2019, a selection of his work became a listed World Heritage Site under the name The 20th-Century Architecture of Frank Lloyd Wright.
Raised in rural Wisconsin, Wright studied civil engineering at the University of Wisconsin and later apprenticed in Chicago, first briefly with Joseph Lyman Silsbee, and then with Louis Sullivan at Adler & Sullivan. Wright opened his own successful Chicago practice in 1893 and established a studio in his Oak Park, Illinois home in 1898. His fame increased, and his personal life sometimes made headlines: leaving his first wife Catherine "Kitty" Tobin for Mamah Cheney in 1909; the murder of Mamah, her children, and others at his Taliesin estate by a staff member in 1914; his tempestuous marriage with second wife Miriam Noel (m. 1923–1927); and his courtship and marriage to Olgivanna Lazović (m. 1928–1959).




--- [History - First Unitarian Society] ---
Let me acknowledge at the outset that history isn’t everyone’s cup of tea. Many people report that the subject was their least favorite in high school, which may be why the average American knows so little about the historical underpinnings of their own country. Granted, high school textbooks – or at least the ones I remember – were deadly dull and dreadfully biased. But it is surely a mistake to shrug off historical study because once-upon-a-time it was served up so poorly. The fact is, insight into the past enhances our well-being as a community and as individuals. In my book Making the Good Life Last I discuss the principle of “staying put” in our homes, relationships, vocations, hobbies and spiritual practices. Here I argue that for our own spiritual and psychological health we need to establish and maintain certain ties, entangling ourselves in the environment and in each other’s lives. This can be a challenge in a culture as mobile as our own and where the craving for novelty is so strong. But when we don’t maintain some continuity feelings of estrangement and alienation begin to creep in. Studying history, familiarizing ourselves with the people and events that shaped the communities and institutions to which we belong, can be an antidote to such feelings. I have certainly found that until I have gained historical perspective on and an appreciation for a place, I don’t feel fully “at home.” Gil Rendle, a well-known church consultant, has observed: “Connection happens when people are able to say to themselves, ‘I see myself in that story.’” To truly be part of something we need to experience a sense of identity and common purpose with those who preceded us. Madison Unitarians first organized quite early in the city’s history, but that initial effort soon fizzled. “Copperheadism split the Madison church wide open,” Charles Lyttle writes, “and killed it temporarily.” The so-called Copperheads, you might remember, were northern Democrats who opposed the Civil War and were anxious to broker an immediate peace with the Southern secessionists. This put them at odds with Republican abolitionists, and the Madison congregation contained both. The differences were, apparently, irreconcilable. By the late 1870’s passions had cooled and a second effort to establish a church was launched. Frank Lloyd Wright’s father was among the founders of the First Unitarian Society, but there were others of even greater significance. The Society’s original Board of Trustees included two members of the legislature, the editor of the Wisconsin State Journal, several prominent local merchants and distinguished faculty members of the University. The congregation’s most enthusiastic backer was William Allen, a professor of history who also helped establish the Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters, the Wisconsin Humane Society and the Madison Benevolent Society. Frederick Jackson Turner, one of America’s foremost historians, studied under Allen and was himself a member of the First Unitarian Society during his years in Madison. Three other names stand out in the first decades of the Society’s existence. Charles Van Hise, University President in the early years of 20th century, attended regularly and served as an officer in the Contemporary Club, a church-sponsored group that offered programs and discussions on current topics. An eminent geologist who authored the first textbook on natural resources and later helped create the “Wisconsin Idea,” Van Hise was once asked about his FUS membership, since he wasn’t all that religious. “Well,” he replied, “I suppose I ought to have some church connection, and the man who preaches in the Unitarian pulpit interferes least with my current of thought.” The name “Vilas” is familiar to many Madisonians because of Henry Vilas Park and Vilas Hall on the UW campus. Dr. Charles H. Vilas, brother to U.S. Senator William F. Vilas, was one of Madison’s leading citizens in the late 19th and early 20th century, a noted philanthropist and a staunch Unitarian. After the Society’s original home on East Dayton Street was completed in 1886, Vilas provided funding for the construction of a parish house, which provided needed space for a Sunday school and fellowship hall. Somewhat later he donated a parsonage for the congregation’s ministers and, when the Society was experiencing financial difficulties, Dr. Vilas retired much of its debt. Ah, those were the good old days! A third notable figure in those early years was a classically trained musician named Aubertine Woodward Moore who served as the Society’s music director and was a fixture on the Madison cultural scene. An indefatigable performer and organizer, Ms. Moore conducted classes, wrote musical essays, translated songs written in French, German and Swedish, played the organ and organized benefit concerts to pay for the Society’s first piano. Ministerial leadership was somewhat less than consistent during that formative period. The Society’s first minister was lured to Minneapolis after a short pastorate, another left within a year and a third was asked to leave, purportedly because of his wife’s indiscretions. Nevertheless, in the latter part of the 19th century the Channing Club was formed on Campus and The Society’s Women founded the Alliance. Both remain alive and active today. The ministerial situation improved with the arrival of Frank Gilmore, who served from 1900 to 1917 – the longest tenure of any minister up until then. During his time in Madison, Gilmore threw himself into community activities. He served on the Library Board, the Hospital Board and was a leading proponent of commercial development in the city. In 1915 the Madison Board of Commerce commissioned Gilmore to write a book describing the city, its character and its various institutions, for use in the local schools. Entitled Madison, Our Home it contained a wealth of detail, with a sprinkling of fatherly admonition to its youthful readers. Following Gilmore’s ministry the congregation engaged A. Eustace Haydon, a professor of comparative religion from the Chicago Divinity School. Haydon was a pioneer in his field, a leading spokesman for humanism and a signee to the 1933 Humanist Manifesto. For five years, from 1918-1923, Haydon commuted weekly from Chicago to Madison to preach. One must suppose that pastoral care and other ministerial functions were left in the hands of the laity during his tenure. Though brilliant, Haydon was a bit of an odd duck who was known as the “Pigeon Man” at Chicago. It was his daily practice to spend the lunch hour on a bench outside the Divinity School feeding the squirrels, who would climb up his legs, and the pigeons who came and perched on the good professor’s shoulders. Pigeons or no, as the spiritual leader of the Madison congregation Haydon pointed it in a decidedly humanist direction, where it remained for many years. A succession of brief, and less than stellar ministries followed, and the congregation’s fortunes declined. By 1940 pledging units had fallen to 48, average attendance at worship was around 30 and fewer than 20 children were enrolled in the Sunday School. Financially strapped, the Society accepted an offer from a Full Gospel group to share its worship space. Fortunately, a young firebrand named Kenneth Patton arrived fresh from the Chicago Divinity School determined to resuscitate the moribund institution. Patton’s seven-year ministry was successful and controversial. In short order the church on East Dayton was sold which allowed the congregation to retire its debts and seek new and better quarters. Patton also initiated a radio ministry on WIBA, which continued through Max Gaebler’s ministry and the first years of my own. By the time Patton left to further his career on the East Coast, membership had doubled. Patton provoked congregational controversy by proposing that Frank Lloyd Wright be commissioned to design its new building. The suggestion was bold and not altogether welcomed. Although he belonged to the Society, Wright’s reputation had been severely tarnished: his designs, though unique, were costly and a contractor’s nightmare, and his egocentrism made for difficult working relationships. The congregational vote was close, but ultimately Patton got his man and the rest is history. But while Frank Gilmore impressed the larger community with his civic engagement, Patton’s fame rested on the public stands he took on contentious issues. He vociferously opposed a legislative measure that would have prevented a Communist from holding office in Wisconsin. And in 1947, near the end of his ministry, he announced in a radio broadcast that he was resigning from the white race. “Wherever men face persecution and discrimination, there is my race,” Patton said. This dramatic gesture made headlines, and while editorials and letters to the editor were critical of the position Patton had staked out, the congregation itself stood by its outspoken minister. Several figures stood out during those post-war years when the Society was in transition and the Meeting House under construction. Harold and Helen Groves had opposed the hiring of Frank Lloyd Wright initially, but accepted the congregation’s decision. Then, in the true spirit of democracy, the couple threw their full weight behind the project. Harold chaired the Building Committee and Helen coordinated the cadres of volunteers that were needed. The Groves were also highly regarded outside of FUS. Helen worked with the American Friends Service Committee helping to resettle Jewish refugees in Madison during World War II. Harold, a nationally recognized economist, was the first UW professor to be elected to the Wisconsin Assembly and then to the state Senate. He also served as the state’s Insurance Commissioner for a time. Another distinguished economist, Kenneth Parsons, also played a major role in the life of the Society during that period. An international expert on land tenure and agrarian reform Parsons served as the congregation’s president while the Meeting House was being built. And then there was Max Otto, one of America’s leading philosophers. Otto was a pragmatist whose thought complemented that of William James and John Dewey. He was also a humanist whose popular course, “Man and Nature, provided students with a non-supernatural, naturalistic view of the universe. Early in his career at Wisconsin, religious and social conservatives denounced him as an “enemy of God and demanded that Otto be dismissed. But President Van Hise refused saying: Freedom of thought, inquiry after truth for its own sake, adjustment of the knowledge of the past in the light of the newest facts and highest reason — this is the essential spirit of a university, which under no circumstances should it yield. When it came time to decide who should preach the inaugural sermon in the new Meeting House, the choice was clear – Max Otto – and in that sermon entitled “To Own or Be Owned” he urged the proud congregation to put the building in proper perspective. “It will truly be our own,” Otto intoned, …if our religious undertaking, ennobled by the beauty of its new home, has vitality and meaning enough to transcend the fame of the building in which it is housed. In the six decades that have elapsed since those words were spoken the First Unitarian Society has been served by many more outstanding members. There was Katherine Bradley, granddaughter of a Unitarian minister, professional botanist and Director of the UW Arboretum during the expansion of its educational and research programs. Bradley exhibited formidable leadership as president of the congregation, president of the FUS Foundation and as a forceful spokeswoman for many annual pledge campaigns. And there was Richard Hartshorne, who served as the Society’s treasurer for a record number of years. Hartshorne was also a nationally recognized member of the UW geography faculty whose academic works still inform and enliven his discipline. Merle Curti, a Pulitzer Prize winning historian in the lineage of Allen and Turner and a founder of the sub-discipline of intellectual history, found in FUS a congenial home – except that he was disappointed in the quality of its musical offerings. To improve matters, Curti left a considerable bequest, income from which was to be used to support the Society’s music program. That legacy gift is one from which benefits still accrue today. Another active member, John Patrick Hunter was a legend of Wisconsin journalism and gained national headlines for a stunt he pulled at the height of the McCarthy era. Pulling together material from the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights, Hunter drew up a petition and took it to Vilas Park, where he buttonholed passersby and urged them to read and to sign it. Of the 112 people he approached, only one added his signature while twenty accused him of being a Communist and most confessed they were afraid to sign. Hunter wrote about his experience, Time Magazine and the Washington Post picked up on it, and President Truman called the Cap Times publisher, Bill Evjue, to congratulate him on his reporter’s spunk. Many others deserve mention – people laboring in the trenches like Charlotte Helsted who for years fussed over the Meeting House like an anxious hen, staunching leaks and puzzling over electrical circuits. But in the end this overview would not be complete without mention of Max Gaebler, whose thirty-five years of active ministry are likely never to be equaled. Rabbi Manfred Swarzensky of Temple Beth El, a friend and frequent pulpit guest said of Gaebler, He is the most brilliant clergyman in Madison…. Because of the penetration of his intellect, his dedication to humanitarian causes and the warmth of his personality, he has made a deep impact upon the spiritual and social life of this community. During Gaebler’s ministry, the congregation grew five-fold, it survived the political turbulence of the late sixties, a new religious education wing was added, talented music directors Karlos Moser and Ellsworth Snyder were brought on board, the FUS Foundation was established, the Channing Club on campus was revitalized and Flower Communion, Christmas Eve candlelight and All Souls services were introduced. Gaebler’s involvement in the larger community was so broad and deep that when Madison Magazine published an article identifying the most important Madison citizens of the twentieth century, Max Gaebler was among them. Let me conclude, then, with this excerpt from a sermon Gaebler delivered just months before his retirement: My vision for the future of this Society is that it may continue in its programs and in the spirit that infuses them, in order to provide for all who choose to come here a beacon of hope and reassurance in moments of despair; an anchor of reason and moderation when the winds of passion threaten to destroy all that we hold sacred; a sense of continuity with a great tradition, one that prepares us to meet inevitable changes with confidence and imagination; a vehicle for educated compassion that will assist us in reaching out to those who need true friendship…; a gentle witness to the right and the true as we perceive them…. May we find a new richness and fresh vitalities as we seek together “to promote truth, righteousness, reverence and charity among all.”
