=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Mayo College - Wikipedia]
Mayo College (informally Mayo) is a boys-only private boarding school in Ajmer, Rajasthan, India. It was founded in 1875 and named after the 6th Earl of Mayo, who was the Viceroy of India from 1869 to 1872, making it one of the oldest public boarding schools in India.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mayo_College

[Mayo College]
Mar 20, 2024 · Mayo College is a boys' residential public school in Ajmer, Rajasthan, India. It was founded in 1875 by Richard Bourke, 6th Earl of Mayo who was also the Viceroy of India from 1869 to 1872. The school is one of the oldest public boarding schools of India. The College was opened in October 1875, with Sir Oliver St.John as the first Principal and one boy, Maharaja Mangal Singh of Alwar. The ...
URL: https://mayocollege.com/public/about-us

[About MAYO - Mayo Alumni]
Web site created using create-react-app Mayo College is a residential public school in Ajmer, Rajasthan, India. It was founded in 1875 by Richard Bourke, 6th Earl of Mayo who was also the Viceroy of India from 1869 to 1872. The school is one of the oldest public boarding schools of India. The College was opened in October 1875, with Sir Oliver St.John as the first Principal and one boy ...
URL: https://mayoalumni.in/about-mayo

[History of Mayo College - Welcome to PG Exhibitions 2014]
The College was opened in October 1875, with Sir Oliver St.John as the first Principal and one boy, Maharaja Mangal Singh of Alwar. The Main Building was completed in 1885 and was designed by Major Mant. Some of the greatest changes in the school were brought about by Mr.Stow who was the Principal from 1931-1943.
URL: https://pg-exhibition2014.weebly.com/history-of-mayo-college.html

[Mayo Legacy - Ajmer]
The college began with Maharaja Mangal Singh of Alwar as its first student, under Principal Sir Oliver St. John. The iconic Main Building, designed by Major ...
URL: https://www.mayocollege.com/school-profile


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Mayo College - Wikipedia] ---
Mayo College (informally Mayo) is a boys-only private boarding school in Ajmer, Rajasthan, India. It was founded in 1875 and named after the 6th Earl of Mayo, who was the Viceroy of India from 1869 to 1872, making it one of the oldest public boarding schools in India.
The idea for the college was proposed in 1869 by Colonel Walter. It was founded in 1875 and Colonel Sir Oliver St John became its first principal. The founder intended to create an "Eton of India". The 2nd Baron Lytton, Viceroy of India, said in a speech on campus in 1879: 

"The idea was well expressed long ago by Colonel Walter in an excellent and most suggestive report which may have influenced Lord Mayo when he founded the present college. In that very sensible report, Colonel Walter pointed out that what was then most needed for the education of India's young rulers and nobles was an Indian Eton. Mayo is India's Eton and you are India's Eton boys".
It aimed to provide the leaders of the princely states with an education similar to that given by Eton College. The British built Mayo for the sons of the Indian upper classes, particularly the princes and nobles of India. Mayo College holds the privilege of educating many members of the Indian Royal Families and also the Royal family of Oman, Said bin Taimur (the 13th Sultan of Muscat and Oman) attended Mayo College from 1922 to 1927 where he mastered English and Urdu.




--- [Mayo College] ---
- home - > - About us ABOUT MAYO COLLEGE Mayo College is a boys' residential public school in Ajmer, Rajasthan, India. It was founded in 1875 by Richard Bourke, 6th Earl of Mayo who was also the Viceroy of India from 1869 to 1872. The school is one of the oldest public boarding schools of India. The College was opened in October 1875, with Sir Oliver St.John as the first Principal and one boy, Maharaja Mangal Singh of Alwar. The present Director is Lt Gen Surendra Kulkarni (Retd), who joined in 2015 and is the seventeenth Principal of the School. Mayo College is considered among the better known boarding schools in the world and is affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education - CBSE. The School has 12 Boarding Houses - 8 Senior Houses, 1 Holding House & 3 Junior Houses, home to over 800 boys from Class IV to XII. We, at Mayo, are committed to a holistic education and view education as having intrinsic value, quite apart from its function of increasing vocational opportunities. Our responsibility lies not only in the development of academic skills, but also vital non cognitive skills. The team Mayo comprises well-qualified teachers and instructors supported by administrative staff. Our endeavour is to provide an enriched environment to make teaching and learning a rewarding experience. The curriculum is relevant to the needs of a changing world. It promotes and inculcates academic excellence along with leadership, self-confidence, mutual respect and a sense of global identity. Being a residential school, we take adequate measures to ensure quality pastoral care for our students. We look forward to being equal partners in your child's education. Give your child the advantage of Mayo and discover why generations of Mayoites are so proud of their Alma Mater! register now


--- [About MAYO - Mayo Alumni] ---
No content


--- [History of Mayo College - Welcome to PG Exhibitions 2014] ---
History of Mayo College The origin of Mayo College, one of the oldest Public Schools in the country, dates back to 1869, when Col F K M Walter, the Political Agent of the Bharatpur Agency recommended a school in India "for a large number of pupils, with a staff thoroughly educated-not mere bookworms, but men fond of field sports and outdoor exercise...." In 1870, Lord Mayo, the then Viceroy and Governor General, came to Ajmer, where in a Darbar, before the Chiefs of the ruling Princes of Rajputana, he expressed his desire to set up a 'Raj Kumar College' in Ajmer, "devoted exclusively to the education of the sons of Chiefs, Princes and leading Thakurs." It is interesting to point out that several generations of the descendants of many present at that Darbar have since continued to study at Mayo College. The College was opened in October 1875, with Sir Oliver St.John as the first Principal and one boy, Maharaja Mangal Singh of Alwar. The Main Building was completed in 1885 and was designed by Major Mant. Some of the greatest changes in the school were brought about by Mr.Stow who was the Principal from 1931-1943. In the same year, the Viceroy ceased to be the President of the General Council. This body was in future presided over by a ruling Prince elected by the council. Today, students from all walks of life, study in this prestigious school and make complete use of the many facilities offered. The origin of Mayo College, one of the oldest Public Schools in the country, dates back to 1869, when Col F K M Walter, the Political Agent of the Bharatpur Agency recommended a school in India "for a large number of pupils, with a staff thoroughly educated-not mere bookworms, but men fond of field sports and outdoor exercise...." In 1870, Lord Mayo, the then Viceroy and Governor General, came to Ajmer, where in a Darbar, before the Chiefs of the ruling Princes of Rajputana, he expressed his desire to set up a 'Raj Kumar College' in Ajmer, "devoted exclusively to the education of the sons of Chiefs, Princes and leading Thakurs." It is interesting to point out that several generations of the descendants of many present at that Darbar have since continued to study at Mayo College. The College was opened in October 1875, with Sir Oliver St.John as the first Principal and one boy, Maharaja Mangal Singh of Alwar. The Main Building was completed in 1885 and was designed by Major Mant. Some of the greatest changes in the school were brought about by Mr.Stow who was the Principal from 1931-1943. In the same year, the Viceroy ceased to be the President of the General Council. This body was in future presided over by a ruling Prince elected by the council. Today, students from all walks of life, study in this prestigious school and make complete use of the many facilities offered.


--- [Mayo Legacy - Ajmer] ---
Mayo Legacy Mayo College, one of India's oldest public schools, was founded in 1875. Its origins trace back to 1869 when Lt. Col. F.K.M. Walter proposed a school for well-rounded education. In 1870, Lord Mayo, then Viceroy, envisioned a 'Raj Kumar College' in Ajmer for the education of royal heirs. The college began with Maharaja Mangal Singh of Alwar as its first student, under Principal Sir Oliver St. John. The iconic Main Building, designed by Major Mant, was completed in 1885. Over time, the school evolved, welcoming students from diverse backgrounds and offering extensive facilities to support their education. Architecture Several designs were submitted in Grecian, Indo-Saracenic and Kolhapur styles by different engineers. The viceroy finally adopted Major Mant's Indo-Saracenic design in June 1875. The construction began in 1877 and was completed in 1885 at a cost of 3.28 lakhs. Major Mant's design became a classic symbol of Indo-Saracenic architecture and apart from being quoted in architectural courses even today, the design now lies in the archives of the British Museum in London. Ajmer, the city where the Dargah of the Great Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti stands, is a sacred center of pilgrimage. Hallowed by the memories of the great seer, Ajmer has earned the epithet of Madinatul Hind or the Madina of India. Bharatpur Agency It is no easy matter to decide what course we ought to pursue in order to ensure to the sons of the aristocracy of this country a liberal and enlightened education, but I think the time has or must shortly come when the government of India must find itself compelled to move in the matter. When the natural guardians are alive, we could of course only earnestly press and urge upon them the desirability of receiving every advantage that education can offer to their children, but whereas in the case of Bharatpur, the government becomes the guardian of the minor I think we ought in future, without fear of consequences on the score of prejudice or misinterpretation of our intentions, to insist open the youth being brought up as gentlemen should be. But to carry this into effect, we must first of all establish an Eton in India. We require a college on an extensive scale, with ample accommodation within its walls for a large number of pupils and the followers (few in number of course) who would accompany them. A complete staff of thoroughly educated gentlemen, not merely bookworms, but men fond of field sports and outdoor exercise, would be necessary, and with these should be associated the elite of the Native gentlemen belonging to the Educational Department. The pupils, or rather their guardians, the tutors, should be allowed ample funds from the coffers of the state to which the minor belonged, and the holidays should be spent in constant travel all over the Continent of India, with an occasional visit to their homes. Many will say that such a scheme is impossible; I admit that it is surrounded with difficulties, but I do not think they are insuperable. If we desire to raise the Chiefs of India to the standard which they must attain to keep pace with the ever advancing spirit of the age, if we wish to make clear to them that our only object is to perpetuate their dynasties, and to make them worthy feudatories of the crown of England, we must place within their sons a better education that they can now possibly obtain. Then, and not till then, we can hope to the native Princes of India occupying the position they ought to hold as the promoters of peace, prosperity and progress amongst their own people, and the hearty supporters of British authority and power. Coat of Arms Coat of Arms This was composed from the design furnished by Mr.Lockwood Kipling, a former Principal of the School of Arts, Lahore and father of the famous Rudyard Kipling. In the Upper Centre of the Shield are Mayo Arms, and Quarterings, a Lion Rampant and an Open Hand. On the right and left are the Sun and the Moon, typical of Suryawanshi and Chandrawanshi, the two great families of Rajputs. Below are the Panch Rang, the five sacred colours of the Rajputs, Red, Gold, Blue, White and Green. In the centre is a Rajput fort - two towers connected by a curtain. On the right is a Bhil warrior with string bow and quiver full of arrows. On the left is a Rajput, well armed, wearing a steel helmet with three plumes, a shield on his back, a dagger and qatar in his belt, and a suit of chain covered with embroidered cloth and gauntlet on his hand. The motto is Let there be Light. The badge is a peacock, the sacred bird of Rajputana, standing on a two edged, two handed Rajput Sword Khanda. Eton of the East Mayo College has been called the “Eton of the East” since its founding in 1870 AD. This is best expressed in the words of Lord Lytton, Viceroy of India on his visit to Mayo as the Chief Guest on the Annual Prize Giving day on Dec 5, 1879. “There are I think many points of resemblance between the great Rajput clans and the English houses founded by our northern ancestors. Both of them owe to the same characteristics the positions they have made, and still maintain for themselves in the political hierarchy of an ancient race. Those characteristics are energy, fearlessness, the love of healthful exercise, an instinctive aptitude for active life, an instinctive scorn for all unmanly ease. No race, no class can long maintain its social and moral ascendancy if it degenerates in physical vigor. And it is perhaps a special merit of our English system of education that it aims at training, developing and strengthening not only the mind but also the body. The idea was well expressed long ago by Colonel Walter in an excellent and most suggestive report which may have influenced Lord Mayo when he founded the present college. In that very sensible report Colonel Walter pointed out that what was then most needed for the education of India’s young rulers and nobles was an Indian Eton. Ajmer is India’s Eton and you are India’s Eton boys.” A complete staff of thoroughly educated gentlemen, not merely bookworms, but men fond of field sports and outdoor exercise, would be necessary, and with these should be associated the elite of the Native gentlemen belonging to the Educational Department. The pupils, or rather their guardians, the tutors, should be allowed ample funds from the coffers of the state to which the minor belonged, and the holidays should be spent in constant travel all over the Continent of India, with an occasional visit to their homes. Many will say that such a scheme is impossible; I admit that it is surrounded with difficulties, but I do not think they are insuperable. If we desire to raise the Chiefs of India to the standard which they must attain to keep pace with the ever advancing spirit of the age, if we wish to make clear to them that our only object is to perpetuate their dynasties, and to make them worthy feudatories of the crown of England, we must place within their sons a better education that they can now possibly obtain. Then, and not till then, we can hope to the native Princes of India occupying the position they ought to hold as the promoters of peace, prosperity and progress amongst their own people, and the hearty supporters of British authority and power. Mayo Stamp Mayo Stamp In what could be termed as the ultimate recognition of its pre-eminent role in the field of education, on 12th April 1986, the post and telegraph department of the government of India released a special stamp of Mayo with the magnificent Main School building on its face.
