=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Wallace Morgan - Society of Illustrators]
The royalties it produced fulfilled Morgan's dream of a permanent headquarters for the Society, at first, a blacksmith shop on 24th Street and in 1939 its present digs on East 63rd Street. He served as President from 1929 to 1936 and was an active voice for many years thereafter.
URL: https://societyillustrators.org/award-winners/wallace-morgan/

[Wallace Morgan - Wikipedia]
Morgan was president of the Society of Illustrators from 1929 to 1936. In 1945, he made a comic strip adaptation of Margery Sharp 's novel Cluny Brown. [2] He died at home of a heart attack on April 24, 1948. He was survived by his sister Elizabeth G. Morgan, who had the same address. [1]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wallace_Morgan

[Society of Illustrators]
Presidents · Charles Dana Gibson (1904–1905, 1909–1920) · Albert Sterner (1907–1908) — founding member · George Hand Wright (1926–1927) · Wallace Morgan (1929–1936) ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Society_of_Illustrators

[Wallace Morgan - Artvee]
After the war, Morgan returned to work in his studio in New York City. Morgan was president of the Society of Illustrators from 1929 to 1936. In 1945, he made a comic strip adaptation of Margery Sharp's novel Cluny Brown. He died at home of a heart attack on April 24, 1948. He was survived by his sister Elizabeth G. Morgan, same address.
URL: https://artvee.com/artist/wallace-morgan/

[Wallace Morgan - National Academicians - National Academy of Design]
He became one of the most prominent illustrators working in the United States and provided illustrations for stories by such authors as Somerset Maugham, Julian Street, and P.G. Wodehouse. From 1929 to 1936 he served as president of the Society of Illustrators and from 1946 until his death he was its honorary president. Discover More
URL: https://nationalacademy.emuseum.com/people/1712/wallace-morgan


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Wallace Morgan - Society of Illustrators] ---
That the Society of Illustrators in its 76th year can operate from a spacious, well-located townhouse is due in no small measure to the foresight and leadership of Wallace Morgan. It was his (and C.D. Williams’) idea to bring the loose knit group of artists, who met irregularly in one of several New York restaurants, together for a monthly smoker (tobacco supplied). As an outgrowth of the smoker, the Artists and Models Show followed and in the late 20’s hit Broadway under the Shubert Brothers banner. The royalties it produced fulfilled Morgan’s dream of a permanent headquarters for the Society, at first, a blacksmith shop on 24th Street and in 1939 its present digs on East 63rd Street. He served as President from 1929 to 1936 and was an active voice for many years thereafter. Wallace Morgan was a very prolific artist whose works depicting the human condition showed spontaneity and zest. His subjects, taken from all strata of society, were drawn with humor and compassion and a knowledge of the characteristics of each. He most often worked in charcoal but also did some pen and ink and color wash illustrations. A free hand artist, he never used photography. As he put it: I’ll be damned if I’ll use a camera…Besides, they never do me justice.” Born in New York City in 1873, Morgan, whose father was an art instructor, attended classes for six years at the National Academy. In his 20’s, he was a staff artist on several New York newspapers including: The Sun, The Herald and the Telegram. His quick sketch style and keen eye for characters were perfected during these years. Later, during World War I, while serving in the AEF as an official artist in the company of Charles Dana Gibson, Jack Sheridan and C.B. Falls, he produced volumes of sketches of battles, Generals and the soldier’s day to day routine. Julian Leonard Street, one of the best known authors of the early 1900’s, called upon Morgan to accompany him on his travels which were to be serialized in Collier’s Weekly. Abroad at Home appeared during 1914 and American Adventures during 1917. He also illustrated The Red Cross Girl, one in a series by Richard Harding Davis. The other Davis volumes had been illustrated by the likes of Christy, Gibson, Gruger and Emerson. Morgan was quite active in other New York organizations as a member of The Players, Century and Dutch Treat Clubs. He was made an honorary member of the Art Students League where he had taught for several years and in 1947 was elected to the National Academy of Design. An active artist even in his later years, Morgan illustrated a noteworthy series for Carstairs Whiskey in 1947. He died the following May at the age of 75. This touching report of a memorial exhibition appeared in the Illustrators Bulletin, January 1950. Wallace Morgan’s gentleness, his heart and humor, are still with us. Take a walk over to the Faragil Galleries and you’ll see Wally. The reason his art is great is because it is a clear, pure expression of the man we all loved. His culture was too ingrained to reach for mannered style, and his intellect too profound to stoop to a quick quip. Just as he spoke with sparkling wisdom-so his art speaks today-and will continue to speak.


--- [Wallace Morgan - Wikipedia] ---
Wallace Morgan (1875 – April 24, 1948) was a war artist for the United States Army during World War I.


--- [Society of Illustrators] ---
The Society of Illustrators (SoI) is a professional society based in New York City. It was founded in 1901 to promote the art of illustration and, since 1959, has held an annual exhibition.
Since absorbing the Museum of Comic and Cartoon Art (MoCCA) in 2012, the Society has also promoted the art of comics. In addition to its holding exhibitions in its own Museum of American Illustration, the Society holds the annual MoCCA Festival, an independent comics showcase.


--- [Wallace Morgan - Artvee] ---
Wallace Morgan was a war artist for the United States Army during World War I. Morgan was born in 1875 and he grew up in Albany, New York where his family had moved shortly after his birth. Upon graduation from high school, he returned to his birthplace, New York City, to pursue a career in art. He studied at the National Academy of Design while working at the New York Sun as a part-time artist. In 1898, he joined the staff of the New York Herald and became a full-time newspaper artist covering whatever assignments came his way, including a 1902 trip to Martinique to cover the eruptions of Mt. Pele. During this period, he developed the ability to render a faithful picture of nature with little need for preliminary sketches, an essential skill for a newspaper illustrator who had to convey to readers the image of an event quickly and accurately. After eleven years with the Herald, he opened his own studio. Shortly thereafter, Collier's commissioned him and Julian Bond to tour the United States and report their findings in words and pictures. Two trips across the country each produced a book that presented a light view of life in America. World War I and Morgan's selection as an AEF artist brought an early end to a third trip. Morgan put his ability to sketch quickly to good use during the war. His work projects an air of activity and movement into scenes of combat. A number of his pictures also reflect his apparent interest in the many columns of troops, animals, and equipment that moved ceaselessly across the battlefields of France. After the war, Morgan returned to work in his studio in New York City. Morgan was president of the Society of Illustrators from 1929 to 1936. In 1945, he made a comic strip adaptation of Margery Sharp's novel Cluny Brown. He died at home of a heart attack on April 24, 1948. He was survived by his sister Elizabeth G. Morgan, same address.


--- [Wallace Morgan - National Academicians - National Academy of Design] ---
No content
