=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kayaking-Aventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall]
Nov 29, 2023 — The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice ...
URL: https://www.reuters.com/sports/kayaking-aventurer-completes-biggest-descent-glacial-waterfall-2023-11-29/

[Biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in Kayak recorded in Svalbard, Norway ...]
The biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in a Kayak has been recorded in Svalbard, Norway, descending down a 20m (65ft) glacial waterfall. The decent was made by Aniol Serrasolses, a 32-year-old man from Catalonia. The location was a 20 meter ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. Serrasolses paddled through the area's acial river, before going down the ice ...
URL: https://icenews.is/2023/12/02/biggest-ever-ice-waterfall-decent-in-kayak-recorded-in-svalbard-norway/

[Watch this: Kayaker drops 20 metres from Arctic Circle waterfall]
Heart-racing video shows 32-year-old Spanish kayaker Aniol Serrasolses paddling through rapids and ice tunnels before plunging 20 metres down an icy waterfall off Svalbard, Norway.
URL: https://www.ctvnews.ca/world/article/watch-this-kayaker-drops-20-metres-from-arctic-circle-waterfall/

[Kayaking adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall ...]
BRASVELLBREEN, Norway - Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20m ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan ...
URL: https://www.straitstimes.com/world/europe/kayaking-adventurer-completes-biggest-descent-of-glacial-waterfall

[Kayaker's stunning 20m drop down ice waterfall]
Nov 30, 2023 — 32-year-old Aniol Serrasolses descended a 20 metre glacial waterfall in Norway - the biggest ever recorded.
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/world-67578560


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kayaking-Aventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall] ---
BRASVELLBREEN, Norway, Nov 29 - Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20-metre ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. Sign up here. "The first time navigating through those rapids was absolutely incredible," Serrasolses said. "Like kayaking on another planet. It was actually crazier than I ever thought it would be... one of the roughest, most wild and virgin places I've ever seen. "That feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes, and you were on top of your kayak totally transparent. You could look down and see everything." To access the waterfall the crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder, and then walk 11 kilometres across the ice to access the glacial river, crossing streams and crevasses. As the first person to run the waterfall Serrasolses chose to name the descent "Philip's Ladder" as a tribute to the crew member who pulled the ladder for the duration of the 11km trek to allow the team to get from the boat to the waterfall. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.


--- [Biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in Kayak recorded in Svalbard, Norway ...] ---
The biggest-ever ice waterfall decent in a Kayak has been recorded in Svalbard, Norway, descending down a 20m (65ft) glacial waterfall. The decent was made by Aniol Serrasolses, a 32-year-old man from Catalonia. The location was a 20 meter ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. Serrasolses paddled through the area’s acial river, before going down the ice waterfall. Serrasolses described the experience as “like kayaking on another planet”.


--- [Watch this: Kayaker drops 20 metres from Arctic Circle waterfall] ---
Watch this: Kayaker drops 20 metres from Arctic Circle waterfall Published: Here Are The 60 Best Advent Calendars For 2025 You Can Get In Canada (So Far) I’ve been Using This Canadian Shampoo And Conditioner For Over A Month, And It’s Totally Changed My Scalp And Hair Health 20 Foolproof Gifts To Order If You Want To Get Your Holiday Shopping Done Early I Tried It: A Laundry Basket So Smart It Solved Our Biggest Household Argument 20 Things From Amazon Canada That CTV Shopping Trends Readers Loved Ordering In October How To Choose The Best Vacuum Sealer For You (And A Few Of Our Favourite Models For 2025) 13 Budget-Friendly Beauty Products That Are Dupes Of More Expensive Items 12 Products For Damaged Hair That’ll Help Bring Your Fried Tresses Back To Life 15 Of The Best Korean Beauty Skincare Finds For Fall 2025 27 Of The Absolute Best Last-Minute Beauty Discounts To Take Advantage Of Before The Amazon Prime Big Deal Days Sale Ends The Shopping Trends team is independent of the journalists at CTV News. We may earn a commission when you use our links to shop. Read about us.


--- [Kayaking adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall ...] ---
Kayaking adventurer completes biggest descent of glacial waterfall Sign up now: Get ST's newsletters delivered to your inbox BRASVELLBREEN, Norway – Kayaker Aniol Serrasolses has descended a 20m ice waterfall in the Arctic Circle - the biggest ever recorded descent of a glacial waterfall. The 32-year-old Catalan adventurer paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river on the ice cap before descending the ice waterfall in Brasvellbreen, the Svalbard archipelago of Norway. “The first time navigating through those rapids was absolutely incredible,” Mr Serrasolses said. “Like kayaking on another planet. It was actually crazier than I ever thought it would be… one of the roughest, most wild and virgin places I’ve ever seen,” he added. “That feeling of levitating above the water. You could see the bottom with those textures, with those movements, with those shapes, and you were on top of your kayak totally transparent. You could look down and see everything.” To access the waterfall, the crew had to climb up the ice cap using a ladder, and then walk 11km across the ice to access the glacial river, crossing streams and crevasses. As the first person to run the waterfall, Mr Serrasolses chose to name the descent “Philip’s Ladder” as a tribute to the crew member who pulled the ladder for the duration of the 11km trek to allow the team to get from the boat to the waterfall. REUTERS


--- [Kayaker's stunning 20m drop down ice waterfall] ---
Kayaker's stunning 20m drop down ice waterfall A 32-year-old Catalonian man's descent down a 20m glacial waterfall in the Arctic Circle is the biggest ever recorded. Aniol Serrasolses paddled through the rapids and ice tunnels of the glacial river, before going down the ice waterfall in Svalbard, Norway. He described the experience as "like kayaking on another planet". This video has been optimised for mobile viewing on the BBC News app. The BBC News app is available for iPhone and Android.
