=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Large Hadron Collider Restarts After 3 Years of Upgrades: Particle ...]
Apr 22, 2022 · The Large Hadron Collider, the world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator, restarted on April 22, 2022, after more than three years of maintenance, consolidation, and upgrade work. Beams of protons are again circulating around the collider’s 27-kilometer ring, marking the end of a multiple-year hiatus for upgrade work.
URL: https://scitechdaily.com/large-hadron-collider-restarts-after-3-years-of-upgrades-particle-collisions-at-world-record-energy-levels/

[Large Hadron Collider restarts - CERN]
Apr 22, 2022 · The world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator has restarted after a break of more than three years for maintenance, consolidation and upgrade work. Today, 22 April, at 12:16 CEST, two beams of protons circulated in opposite directions around the Large Hadron Collider’s 27-kilometre ring at their injection energy of 450 billion electronvolts (450 GeV). “These beams circulated ...
URL: https://home.cern/news/news/accelerators/large-hadron-collider-restarts

[Large Hadron Collider restarts - Interactions]
Apr 22, 2022 · The world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator has restarted after a break of more than three years for maintenance, consolidation and upgrade work. Today, 22 April, at 12:16 CEST, two beams of protons circulated in opposite directions around the Large Hadron Collider’s 27-kilometre ring at their injection energy of 450 billion electronvolts (450 GeV).
URL: https://www.interactions.org/press-release/large-hadron-collider-restarts

[The Large Hadron Collider to resume after a maintenance break]
Apr 25, 2022 · The Large Hadron Collider has restarted after a three-year break for maintenance, consolidation, and upgrade work.
URL: https://www.innovationnewsnetwork.com/large-hadron-collider-resume-maintenance-break/20602/

[Large Hadron Collider restarts after three-year refit - New Atlas]
The Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the largest and most powerful particle accelerator ever built, is ready to go back into service after a three-year overhaul and refit. On April 22, 2022 at 12:16 ...
URL: https://newatlas.com/physics/large-hadron-collider-restart-three-year-refit/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Large Hadron Collider Restarts After 3 Years of Upgrades: Particle ...] ---
Beams of protons are again circulating around the collider’s 27-kilometer ring, marking the end of a multiple-year hiatus for upgrade work. In 2022, CERN is restarting the LHC after more than three years of maintenance and upgrades, known as Long Shutdown 2 (LS2). Once restarted, the energy will climb to world-record levels as CERN begins LHC Run 3 for physics research. Then July 4 will mark #Higgs10, the 10th anniversary of the discovery of the Higgs boson. The Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator, has restarted after a break of more than three years for maintenance, consolidation, and upgrade work. Today, April 22, 2022, at 12:16 CEST, two beams of protons circulated in opposite directions around the Large Hadron Collider’s 27-kilometer (16.8 mile) ring at their injection energy of 450 billion electronvolts (450 GeV). “These beams circulated at injection energy and contained a relatively small number of protons. High-intensity, high-energy collisions are a couple of months away,” says Rhodri Jones, the Head of CERN’s Beams department. “But first beams represent the successful restart of the accelerator after all the hard work of the long shutdown.” “The machines and facilities underwent major upgrades during the second long shutdown of CERN’s accelerator complex,” says CERN’s Director for Accelerators and Technology, Mike Lamont. “The LHC itself has undergone an extensive consolidation program and will now operate at an even higher energy and, thanks to major improvements in the injector complex, it will deliver significantly more data to the upgraded LHC experiments.” Pilot beams circulated in the LHC for a brief period in October 2021. However, the beams that circulated today mark not only the end of the second long shutdown for the LHC but also the beginning of preparations for four years of physics-data taking, which is expected to start this summer. Until then, LHC experts will work around the clock to progressively recommission the machine and safely ramp up the energy and intensity of the beams before delivering collisions to the experiments at a record energy of 13.6 trillion electronvolts (13.6 TeV). This third run of the LHC, called Run 3, will see the machine’s experiments collecting data from collisions not only at a record energy but also in unparalleled numbers. The ATLAS and CMS experiments can each expect to receive more collisions during this physics run than in the two previous physics runs combined, while LHCb, which underwent a complete revamp during the shutdown, can hope to see its collision count increase by a factor of three. Meanwhile, ALICE, a specialized detector for studying heavy-ion collisions, can expect a fifty times increase in the total number of recorded ion collisions, thanks to the recent completion of a major upgrade. The unprecedented number of collisions will allow international teams of physicists at CERN and across the world to study the Higgs boson in great detail and put the Standard Model of particle physics and its various extensions to the most stringent tests yet. Other things to look forward to in Run 3 include the operation of two new experiments, FASER and SND@LHC, designed to look for physics beyond the Standard Model; special proton–helium collisions to measure how often the antimatter counterparts of protons are produced in these collisions; and collisions involving oxygen ions that will improve physicists’ knowledge of cosmic-ray physics and the quark–gluon plasma, a state of matter that existed shortly after the Big Bang. Never miss a breakthrough: Join the SciTechDaily newsletter. Follow us on Google and Google News.


--- [Large Hadron Collider restarts - CERN] ---
The world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator has restarted after a break of more than three years for maintenance, consolidation and upgrade work. Today, 22 April, at 12:16 CEST, two beams of protons circulated in opposite directions around the Large Hadron Collider’s 27-kilometre ring at their injection energy of 450 billion electronvolts (450 GeV). “These beams circulated at injection energy and contained a relatively small number of protons. High-intensity, high-energy collisions are a couple of months away,” says the Head of CERN’s Beams department, Rhodri Jones. “But first beams represent the successful restart of the accelerator after all the hard work of the long shutdown.” “The machines and facilities underwent major upgrades during the second long shutdown of CERN’s accelerator complex,” says CERN’s Director for Accelerators and Technology, Mike Lamont. “The LHC itself has undergone an extensive consolidation programme and will now operate at an even higher energy and, thanks to major improvements in the injector complex, it will deliver significantly more data to the upgraded LHC experiments.” Pilot beams circulated in the LHC for a brief period in October 2021. However, the beams that circulated today mark not only the end of the second long shutdown for the LHC but also the beginning of preparations for four years of physics-data taking, which is expected to start this summer. Until then, LHC experts will work around the clock to progressively recommission the machine and safely ramp up the energy and intensity of the beams before delivering collisions to the experiments at a record energy of 13.6 trillion electronvolts (13.6 TeV). This third run of the LHC, called Run 3, will see the machine’s experiments collecting data from collisions not only at a record energy but also in unparalleled numbers. The ATLAS and CMS experiments can each expect to receive more collisions during this physics run than in the two previous physics runs combined, while LHCb, which underwent a complete revamp during the shutdown, can hope to see its collision count increase by a factor of three. Meanwhile, ALICE, a specialised detector for studying heavy-ion collisions, can expect a fifty times increase in the total number of recorded ion collisions, thanks to the recent completion of a major upgrade. The unprecedented number of collisions will allow international teams of physicists at CERN and across the world to study the Higgs boson in great detail and put the Standard Model of particle physics and its various extensions to the most stringent tests yet. Other things to look forward to in Run 3 include the operation of two new experiments, FASER and SND@LHC, designed to look for physics beyond the Standard Model; special proton–helium collisions to measure how often the antimatter counterparts of protons are produced in these collisions; and collisions involving oxygen ions that will improve physicists’ knowledge of cosmic-ray physics and the quark–gluon plasma, a state of matter that existed shortly after the Big Bang. Videos: VNR: https://videos.cern.ch/record/2295778 The LS2 upgrades to the LHC detectors: https://videos.cern.ch/record/2295775 The LS2 upgrades to the CERN accelerators chain: https://videos.cern.ch/record/2295776 The LHC and the accelerator complex: here Photos: Photos of the restart: https://cds.cern.ch/record/2807018 The accelerator complex: https://home.cern/resources/image/accelerators/accelerator-complex-images-gallery The LHC: https://home.cern/resources/image/accelerators/lhc-images-gallery Media kit:


--- [Large Hadron Collider restarts - Interactions] ---
Press Office Press@cern.ch +41 22 767 34 32 +41 22 767 21 41 A communication resource from the world's particle physics laboratories. The world’s largest and most powerful particle accelerator has restarted after a break of more than three years for maintenance, consolidation and upgrade work. Today, 22 April, at 12:16 CEST, two beams of protons circulated in opposite directions around the Large Hadron Collider’s 27-kilometre ring at their injection energy of 450 billion electronvolts (450 GeV). “These beams circulated at injection energy and contained a relatively small number of protons. High-intensity, high-energy collisions are a couple of months away,” says the Head of CERN’s Beams department, Rhodri Jones. “But first beams represent the successful restart of the accelerator after all the hard work of the long shutdown.” “The machines and facilities underwent major upgrades during the second long shutdown of CERN’s accelerator complex,” says CERN’s Director for Accelerators and Technology, Mike Lamont. “The LHC itself has undergone an extensive consolidation programme and will now operate at an even higher energy and, thanks to major improvements in the injector complex, it will deliver significantly more data to the upgraded LHC experiments.” Pilot beams circulated in the LHC for a brief period in October 2021. However, the beams that circulated today mark not only the end of the second long shutdown for the LHC but also the beginning of preparations for four years of physics-data taking, which is expected to start this summer. Until then, LHC experts will work around the clock to progressively recommission the machine and safely ramp up the energy and intensity of the beams before delivering collisions to the experiments at a record energy of 13.6 trillion electronvolts (13.6 TeV). This third run of the LHC, called Run 3, will see the machine’s experiments collecting data from collisions not only at a record energy but also in unparalleled numbers. The ATLAS and CMS experiments can each expect to receive more collisions during this physics run than in the two previous physics runs combined, while LHCb, which underwent a complete revamp during the shutdown, can hope to see its collision count increase by a factor of three. Meanwhile, ALICE, a specialised detector for studying heavy-ion collisions, can expect a fifty times increase in the total number of recorded ion collisions, thanks to the recent completion of a major upgrade. The unprecedented number of collisions will allow international teams of physicists at CERN and across the world to study the Higgs boson in great detail and put the Standard Model of particle physics and its various extensions to the most stringent tests yet. Other things to look forward to in Run 3 include the operation of two new experiments, FASER and SND@LHC, designed to look for physics beyond the Standard Model; special proton–helium collisions to measure how often the antimatter counterparts of protons are produced in these collisions; and collisions involving oxygen ions that will improve physicists’ knowledge of cosmic-ray physics and the quark–gluon plasma, a state of matter that existed shortly after the Big Bang. Videos: VNR: https://videos.cern.ch/record/2295778 The LS2 upgrades to the LHC detectors: https://videos.cern.ch/record/2295775 The LS2 upgrades to the CERN accelerators chain: https://videos.cern.ch/record/2295776 The LHC and the accelerator complex: here Photos: Photos of the restart: https://cds.cern.ch/record/2807018 The accelerator complex: https://home.cern/resources/image/accelerators/accelerator-complex-images-gallery The LHC: https://home.cern/resources/image/accelerators/lhc-images-gallery Media kit: Press Office Press@cern.ch +41 22 767 34 32 +41 22 767 21 41


--- [The Large Hadron Collider to resume after a maintenance break] ---
Researchers at CERN announced on 22 April 2022 that the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) has restarted after a three-year break for maintenance, consolidation, and upgrade work. What has the Large Hadron Collider observed since it restarted? On 22 April 2022, two beams of protons circulated in opposite directions around the LHC’s 27-kilometre ring at their injection energy of 450 billion electronvolts (450 GeV). “These beams circulated at injection energy and contained a relatively small number of protons. High-intensity, high-energy collisions are a couple of months away,” explained Rhodri Jones, the Head of CERN’s Beams Department. “But first beams represent the successful restart of the LHC accelerator after all the hard work of the long shutdown.” “The machines and facilities underwent major upgrades during the second long shutdown of CERN’s accelerator complex,” added Mike Lamont, CERN’s Director for Accelerators and Technology. “The LHC itself has undergone an extensive consolidation programme and will now operate at an even higher energy and – thanks to major improvements in the injector complex – it will deliver significantly more data to the upgraded LHC experiments.” What do these beams mean for the particle accelerator? CERN scientists observed that pilot beams circulated in the LHC for a brief period in October 2021. However, the beams that circulated on 22 April 2022 marked not only the end of the second long shutdown for the LHC, but also the beginning of preparations for four years of physics-data taking, which is expected to begin in the summer of 2022. Until then, LHC experts intend to progressively recommission the machine and safely enhance both the energy and intensity of the beams, before delivering collisions to the experiments at a record energy of 13.6 trillion electronvolts (13.6 TeV). What data do scientists intend to collect? This third run of the LHC – known as Run 3 – will observe the machine’s experiments and will collect data from collisions, both at record energy, and also in unparalleled numbers. Researchers expect that the ATLAS and CMS experiments will receive more collisions during this physics run than in the two previous physics runs combined, while the LHC, which underwent a complete revamp during the shutdown, can hope to see its collision count increase by a factor of three. Meanwhile, ALICE, a specialised detector for studying heavy-ion collisions, can expect up to a fifty times increase in the total number of recorded ion collisions, due to the recent completion of a major upgrade. What does this mean for science? The unprecedented number of collisions detected by the LHC will allow international teams of physicists at CERN and across the world to study the Higgs boson in great detail and put the Standard Model of particle physics and its various extensions to the most stringent tests yet. Other things to anticipate in Run 3 also include the operation of two new experiments: - FASER and SND@LHC, which is designed to look for physics beyond the Standard Model; - Special proton–helium collisions to measure how often the antimatter counterparts of protons are produced in these collisions; and - Collisions involving oxygen ions that will improve physicists’ knowledge of cosmic-ray physics and the quark–gluon plasma, a state of matter that existed shortly after the Big Bang.


--- [Large Hadron Collider restarts after three-year refit - New Atlas] ---
The Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the largest and most powerful particle accelerator ever built, is ready to go back into service after a three-year overhaul and refit. On April 22, 2022 at 12:16 pm CEST, two proton beams with an injection energy of 450 GeV were sent in opposite directions around the the 27-kilometer-long (17-mile) ring. The advantage of a giant atom smasher like the LHC is that the tremendous energies it can impart on subatomic particles can cause them to strike each other so hard that they break apart in such a way as to reveal secrets about the basic nature of physics. The disadvantage is that a machine large enough to encompass a small village requires a lot of work to maintain and upgrade. The LHC has been out of commission since December 10, 2018 as scientists and engineers carried out a variety of tasks to ensure that it keeps working properly, acquires new capabilities, and increases its ability to detect a number of events in a given time by a factor of 10. The latest upgrades include improving the insulation on the diodes in over 1,200 magnets used to control the particle beam. These are vital to the operation of the giant ring because they allow the operators to remove the 13,000 amps of current safely. If these diodes should short circuit, the resulting release of energy could cause extensive damage. Other improvements involved replacing 22 superconducting magnets, as well as cryogenic units, and adding additional instruments. The beam dump used to absorb the particle beams at the end of each cycle has been consolidated into an assembly of graphite and nitrogen gas sealed in seven tonnes of iron shielding. The dump has also been physically disconnected from the accelerator by 10 m (33 ft) to prevent vibrations from the dump being transmitted to the ring. In addition, 16 new collimators have been installed to clean up stray particles from the beam before it reaches the target. With the first proton beams fired, the CERN team will now work on fully recommissioning the LHC over the next few months. When it is fully operational, it will produce particle collisions at a record energy of 13.6 TeV. The unprecedented large number of collisions at such high energies are expected to provide new insights into the Higgs boson, the Standard Model of particle physics, and the nature of the universe shortly after the Big Bang. "These beams circulated at injection energy and contained a relatively small number of protons," the Head of CERN’s Beams department, Rhodri Jones, said of this week's restart. "High-intensity, high-energy collisions are a couple of months away. But first beams represent the successful restart of the accelerator after all the hard work of the long shutdown." The video below discusses the LHC restart. Source: CERN
