=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[A Beloved Friends Guest Star Nearly Played Rachel - /Film]
Jan 20, 2025 · Jennifer Aniston became famous playing Rachel on the hit sitcom Friends, but a series guest star almost got the part instead.
URL: https://www.slashfilm.com/1753354/friends-guest-star-jane-sibbett-nearly-played-rachel/

[Did you know that Courtney Cox was originally chosen to play Rachel?]
They wanted Cox to read for Rachel (and Aniston for Monica), but she was never "chosen to play Rachel." Fortunately for us, both actresses thought they were ...
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/friends_tv_show/comments/16l1ov7/did_you_know_that_courtney_cox_was_originally/

['Friends' Carol Actress Sets Record Straight on Rachel Role Claim]
Jul 1, 2024 · Jane Sibbett responded to rumors she was showrunners' original choice to play Rachel Green, the role that turned Jennifer Aniston into a household name.
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/friends-carol-actress-offered-role-rachel-green-rumors-jane-sibbett-jennifer-aniston-1919392

[You Won’t Believe Who Almost Played Rachel on ‘Friends’]
Jan 2, 2025 · Before Jennifer Aniston became Rachel, another Friends actor was already cast to play the iconic character but had to step down due to her pregnancy.
URL: https://collider.com/friends-rachel-casting-jane-sibbett-carol-jennifer-aniston/

[How Friends Almost Cast Someone Else As Rachel – What That Would've ...]
Carol Actor Almost Became Friends’ Rachel Green (Photo Credit –Instagram/ Facebook) Jennifer Aniston as Rachel Green? Feels like destiny. But for a brief moment in the Friends universe, it almost wasn’t. Before Friends became a cultural juggernaut and before Aniston’s hairstyle alone launched a thousand salon visits, another familiar face nearly landed the role. Carol Was Almost Rachel ...
URL: https://www.imdb.com/news/ni65305879/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [A Beloved Friends Guest Star Nearly Played Rachel - /Film] ---
A Beloved Friends Guest Star Nearly Played Rachel It's hard to imagine anyone else sitting on that iconic Central Perk sofa other than the "Friends" we ended up with (leading to one of the best sitcoms of all-time). But had different choices been made, the crucial character of Rachel Green, played by Jennifer Aniston, could've looked like Ross' (David Schwimmer) first ex-wife of the show, Carol, played by Jane Sibbett. During an appearance on the Australian morning show Sunrise, Sibbett was asked if she almost came close to landing the role of rachel. "Almost. It's a bit of an embellishment," she said. "It's actually that I had left the room auditioning for Rachel, and I got the phone call from my manager saying, 'They love you, they want you, they want you. You've got to come back next week, but they want you.'" Sibbet, however, was concerned about one slight issue that could crop up for the character she had a chance to play: "So I said, 'Did you tell them I was pregnant?' and he said, 'No, no, no, just go onto the test. It'll be fine, so that's how it went." After taking the more honest approach, Sibbett didn't get the role of Rachel, but at least she ended up with Carol, right? Well, just like Ross' divorces and many relationships on the show, things were also a little complicated there. Jane Sibbett played Carol on Friends, but she wasn't the first choice After missing out on playing the coffee house's most well-known employee, Sibbett saw an in elsewhere as Carol, Ross' pregnant ex-wife, given that she had a child of her own on the way. Unfortunately, the schedules didn't align, and Sibbett lost the role to Anita Barone instead. "I said, 'Ask them if I could play the pregnant lesbian and they said the timing still wouldn't work,'" recalled Sibbett. Thankfully, things changed drastically when, after one appearance in the show's pilot, Barone quit the show. "Friends" needed a Carol and fast. "And so when I got home from the hospital after delivering the baby, that's when I got the phone call." Thankfully, there were no hard feelings between herself and her co-star that ended up nabbing Rachel. "No one could have ever played that part besides Jennifer. Nobody," Sibbett said. But in her own way, Sibbett left an essential mark on the show, bringing a gay character to the forefront of television, which received a heated reception. Any mention of Carol being a lesbian was censored in China, while her marriage to her partner Susan (Jessica Hecht) was banned across multiple networks. As Sibbett put it: "They thought it was going to be a big deal but it gave us a lot of wonderful press and gave us the opportunity to talk about, you know, love is love and this is something we needed to do, and it's just a beautiful storyline."


--- [Did you know that Courtney Cox was originally chosen to play Rachel?] ---
Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/friends_tv_show Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to friends_tv_show r/friends_tv_show • aniruddhajethmalani8 Did you know that Courtney Cox was originally chosen to play Rachel? r/factsthatMatter • Did you know that Courtney Cox was originally chosen to play Rachel? upvote Share Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 17, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation


--- ['Friends' Carol Actress Sets Record Straight on Rachel Role Claim] ---
Friends actress Jane Sibbett shut down rumors that she was the original choice to play Rachel Green in the 1990s sitcom. The 61-year-old played Carol Willick, the ex-wife of Ross Geller (David Schwimmer) and mother to his son, Ben, who dumps him in the pilot episode for another woman. During an appearance on the Australian news show Sunrise on Monday, host Nat Barr asked Sibbett if she was really offered the role of Rachel before Jennifer Aniston. Aniston starred as the waitress-turned-fashion-buyer for the show's 10 seasons, turning her into a household name. "Is it true that you were originally picked to play the role of Rachel Green, but because you were pregnant, it ultimately went to Jennifer Aniston?" said Barr. "Almost," Sibbett replied. "It's a bit of an embellishment." Sibbett explained that she had just left the room after auditioning for Rachel when she got a call from her manager saying, "They love you, they want you," asking her to come back the following week for a screen test. "Did you tell them I was pregnant?" Sibbett recalls asking her manager, who confirmed that he hadn't, but suggested that she go for the role anyway. After discovering that Sibbett was pregnant, the casting team decided to go in a different direction. However, Sibbett was thrilled when they asked her to take over the role of Carol from Anita Barone, who left the show after pilot. "After I got home from the hospital after delivering my baby, that's when I got that phone call," she said. "No one could have ever played that part of Rachel besides Jennifer," she added. Sibbett also discussed how she dealt with the backlash for playing a "pregnant lesbian." Carol wed her partner Susan (Jessica Hecht) in the Season 2 episode "The One with the Lesbian Wedding," which was banned on two local networks in Ohio and Texas. Although the storyline caused controversy, Sibbett said the plot also gave the show "a lot of wonderful press." "[It was] a great opportunity for us to be talking about, you know, 'love is love,'" Sibbett said. "This is something we need to do and it's just a beautiful storyline." The episode became the highest-rated episode of Friends in the U.S. so far, raking in 31.6 million viewers when it aired in January 1996. Although Sibbett only appeared in 15 episodes of the show, Carol and her partner Susan are some of the series' most memorable side characters, playing an important part in Ross's development as a character. Sibbett also paid tribute to her late Friends' co-star Matthew Perry on Sunrise. The Screen Actors' Guild Award winner, who played Chandler Bing on the show, died in October after being found unresponsive in the hot tub of his Los Angeles home. An autopsy report revealed that the 54-year-old's cause of death was listed as drowning brought on by the "acute effects of ketamine." The actor had struggled with addiction throughout his life, sharing his experience in his 2022 memoir Friends, Lovers, and the Big Terrible Thing. "[He] was one of the funniest men I've ever met," Sibbett said. "He was a dear heart. I knew him before I started Friends and was so happy to be working with him. "It's heart-wrenching, heartbreaking. His life will go on because he's touching so many people even now who are battling with addiction."


--- [You Won’t Believe Who Almost Played Rachel on ‘Friends’] ---
No content


--- [How Friends Almost Cast Someone Else As Rachel – What That Would've ...] ---
How Friends Almost Cast Someone Else As Rachel – What That Would’ve Meant For The Show! Carol Actor Almost Became Friends’ Rachel Green(Photo Credit –Instagram/Facebook) Jennifer Aniston as Rachel Green? Feels like destiny. But for a brief moment in the Friends universe, it almost wasn’t. Before Friends became a cultural juggernaut and before Aniston’s hairstyle alone launched a thousand salon visits, another familiar face nearly landed the role. Carol Was Almost Rachel? Yep, Jane Sibbett, who eventually played Carol (Ross’s ex-wife), once auditioned for Rachel Green. In an interview with Sunrise, she clarified the long-running rumor that her pregnancy had cost her the role. When asked if she was originally picked to play Rachel, Sibbett replied, “Almost. It’s a bit of an embellishment.” She recalled how things played out: “I had left the room from auditioning for Rachel, and I got the phone call from my manager saying ‘They love you, they want you […] You gotta’ come back next week. Jennifer Aniston as Rachel Green? Feels like destiny. But for a brief moment in the Friends universe, it almost wasn’t. Before Friends became a cultural juggernaut and before Aniston’s hairstyle alone launched a thousand salon visits, another familiar face nearly landed the role. Carol Was Almost Rachel? Yep, Jane Sibbett, who eventually played Carol (Ross’s ex-wife), once auditioned for Rachel Green. In an interview with Sunrise, she clarified the long-running rumor that her pregnancy had cost her the role. When asked if she was originally picked to play Rachel, Sibbett replied, “Almost. It’s a bit of an embellishment.” She recalled how things played out: “I had left the room from auditioning for Rachel, and I got the phone call from my manager saying ‘They love you, they want you […] You gotta’ come back next week. - 5/28/2025 - by Koimoi.com Team - KoiMoi Similar News ‘The Four Seasons’ Sets Season 2 Premiere Date At Netflix; Drops First-Look Photos Of Tina Fey, Will Forte, Colman Domingo, More - 3/4/2026 - by Denise Petski - Deadline Film + TV Will TNT, TBS finally return to Fubo when Paramount buys Wbd? - 3/4/2026 - by David Satin - The Streamable Burning Questions for Paramount’s Warner Bros. Deal: Who Does David Ellison Think He Is? What’s Next for Netflix? - 3/4/2026 - by Brent Lang and Cynthia Littleton - Variety Film + TV Andrew Gunn Dies: ‘Freaky Friday’, ‘Cruella’ Producer Was 56 - 3/4/2026 - by Greg Evans - Deadline Film + TV Where is John Hudson Dilgen Now? Update on the Body Bizarre Star - 3/4/2026 - by Suvechha Sarkar - Moviedelic Fans Go Wild as Daniel Radcliffe Meets Gold Medalist Alysa Liu in Person - 3/4/2026 - by Josip Kraljik - Comic Basics Win Passes to a Preview of Reminders Of Him - 3/4/2026 - by Editor - CinemaNerdz Jasmine Crockett Concedes to James Talarico in Texas Senate Race, Says She'll Continue Working to Elect Democrats - 3/4/2026 - by Just Jared - Just Jared Project Hail Mary North America Box Office: Can Andy Weir’s Latest Adaptation Deliver A Bigger Opening Than The Martian? - 3/4/2026 - by Esita Mallik - KoiMoi IMDb.com, Inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles, Tweets, or blog posts. This content is published for the entertainment of our users only. The news articles, Tweets, and blog posts do not represent IMDb's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual. Please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy.
