=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Maulana Azad - Wikipedia]
Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin[a] (11 November 1888 – 22 February 1958), better known as Maulana Azad[b] and sometimes referred to as Abul Kalam Azad, was an Indian writer, activist of the Indian independence movement and statesman.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maulana_Azad

[Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Biography : Life, Education, Freedom ...]
Nov 11, 2025 · Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was born on November 11, 1888, in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, to a family of Islamic scholars. His father, Maulana Khairuddin, was a respected cleric, and his mother came from a noble Arabic family. When Azad was young, his family moved to Calcutta (now Kolkata), where he received both traditional Islamic and modern education.
URL: https://educationmasters.in/maulana-abul-kalam-azad-biography-life-education-freedom/

[Abul Kalam Azad | Indian Scholar, Theologian, Nationalist, & Facts]
Jan 2, 2026 · Abul Kalam Azad, also called Maulana Azad, was an Islamic theologian, a journalist, and a leader of the Indian National Congress party during the Indian independence movement. He worked closely with Mahatma Gandhi.
URL: https://www.britannica.com/biography/Abul-Kalam-Azad

[Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Biography - Life History, Facts ...]
Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was born Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin on November 11, 1888 in Mecca, Islam's main center of pilgrimage. His mother was the daughter of a rich Arabian Sheikh and his father, Maulana Khairuddin, was a Bengali Muslim of Afghan origin. His forefathers came to India during the reign of Mughal Emperor Babar, from Heart ...
URL: https://culturalindia.net/leaders/maulana-abul-kalam-azad.html

[Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Biography- Detailed Information]
Maulana Azad's real name was Sayyid Ghulam Muhiyuddin Ahmed bin Khairuddin Al Hussaini but eventually came to be known as Maulana Abdul kalam Azad. He was born on 11 November 1888 in Makkah.
URL: https://www.vedantu.com/biography/maulana-abul-kalam-azad-biography


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Maulana Azad - Wikipedia] ---
Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin (11 November 1888 – 22 February 1958), better known as Maulana Azad and sometimes referred to as Abul Kalam Azad, was an Indian writer, activist of the Indian independence movement and statesman. A senior leader of the Indian National Congress, following India's independence, he became the first Minister of Education in the Indian government. His contribution to establishing the education foundation in India is recognised by celebrating his birthday as National Education Day across India.
As a young man, Azad composed poetry in Urdu, as well as treatises on religion and philosophy. He rose to prominence through his work as a journalist, publishing works critical of the British Raj and espousing the causes of Indian nationalism. Azad became the leader of the Khilafat Movement, during which he came into close contact with the Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi. After the failure of the Khilafat Movement, he became closer to the Congress. Azad became an enthusiastic supporter of Gandhi's ideas of non-violent civil disobedience, and worked to organise the non-co-operation movement in protest of the 1919 Rowlatt Acts. Azad committed himself to Gandhi's ideals, including promoting Swadeshi (indigenous) products and the cause of Swaraj (Self-rule) for India. In 1923, at an age of 35, he became the youngest person to serve as the President of the Indian National Congress.
In October 1920, Azad was elected as a member of foundation committee to establish Jamia Millia Islamia at Aligarh in U. P. without taking help from British colonial government. He assisted in shifting the campus of the university from Aligarh to New Delhi in 1934. The main gate (Gate No. 7) to the main campus of the university is named after him.
Azad was one of the main organizers of the Dharasana Satyagraha in 1931, and emerged as one of the most important national leaders of the time, prominently leading the causes of Hindu–Muslim unity as well as espousing secularism and socialism. He served as Congress president from 1940 to 1945, during which the Quit India rebellion was launched. Azad was imprisoned, together with the entire Congress leadership. He also worked for Hindu–Muslim unity through the Al-Hilal newspaper.




--- [Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Biography : Life, Education, Freedom ...] ---
KD I’m Kiran, a content creator at Education Masters. I write and share informative articles on jobs, education updates, and career opportunities to help students and aspirants stay informed and succeed in their goals. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was one of India’s most respected freedom fighters, scholars, and educationists. Known for his deep intellect, progressive vision, and commitment to national unity, he played a crucial role in India’s struggle for independence and laid the foundation of the modern Indian education system. His contributions earned him the title of “Architect of Education in Independent India. | Field | Details | | Name | Maulana Abul Kalam Azad | | Image | | | Caption | Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, India’s first Minister of Education, 1947 | | Birth Name | Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin Ahmad bin Khairuddin Al-Hussaini Azad | | Birth Date | November 11, 1888 | | Birth Place | Mecca, Hejaz (now in Saudi Arabia) | | Death Date | February 22, 1958 | | Death Place | New Delhi, India | | Nationality | Indian | | Citizenship | Indian | | Other Names | Maulana Azad, Abul Kalam Azad | | Education | Traditional Islamic education; self-taught in philosophy, world history, science, and English literature | | Alma Mater | Studied under private tutors; largely self-educated | | Occupation | Freedom Fighter, Politician, Journalist, Scholar, Educationist | | Years Active | 1912–1958 | | Known For | India’s first Minister of Education; key leader in the Indian independence movement | | Notable Works | Establishment of IITs and UGC, promotion of primary and women’s education, Urdu journalism (Al-Hilal), advocacy for Hindu-Muslim unity | | Spouse(s) | Zuleikha Begum | | Children | No surviving children publicly recorded | | Parents | Maulana Khairuddin (father), Alia Bibi (mother) | | Relatives | Descendant of a family of Islamic scholars; part of an Urdu-speaking Indian Muslim family | | Awards | Bharat Ratna (1992, posthumously) | | Political Party | Indian National Congress | | Positions Held | Minister of Education (1947–1958), President of Indian National Congress (1923, 1940–1946) | | Publications | India Wins Freedom, Al-Hilal, Al-Balagh, Tazkirah | | Famous Quotes | “Education imparted by heart can bring revolution in the society.” | | Legacy | National Education Day (November 11) celebrated in his honor | | Website | https://www.education.gov.in (Official Government of India – Ministry of Education) | Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was born on November 11, 1888, in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, to a family of Islamic scholars. His father, Maulana Khairuddin, was a respected cleric, and his mother came from a noble Arabic family. When Azad was young, his family moved to Calcutta (now Kolkata), where he received both traditional Islamic and modern education. He was a brilliant student, mastering Arabic, Persian, Urdu, and English at an early age. Azad was self-taught in many subjects including philosophy, world history, and science. His passion for knowledge and reform was evident from his teenage years, when he began writing articles on education, society, and politics. Maulana Azad’s life took a major turn when he joined India’s freedom movement against British rule. Deeply influenced by nationalist leaders and revolutionary ideas, he started a Urdu weekly newspaper “Al-Hilal” in 1912, which became a powerful voice against colonial oppression. The British government later banned the newspaper due to its revolutionary tone, but Azad continued his mission through another publication, “Al-Balagh.” He became one of the youngest presidents of the Indian National Congress in 1923 and again in 1940, during a critical phase of India’s independence struggle. Azad worked closely with leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, and Sardar Patel. He firmly believed in Hindu-Muslim unity and opposed the idea of partition. His leadership during the Quit India Movement (1942) further strengthened his role as a national leader committed to India’s unity and freedom. After India achieved independence in 1947, Maulana Azad became the first Minister of Education in the Government of India, a position he held until his death in 1958. His vision for education was broad and inclusive. He believed that education should reach every citizen, regardless of class, gender, or religion. Under his leadership, the government introduced several reforms that shaped the future of Indian education. Foundation of IITs (Indian Institutes of Technology): Azad played a major role in establishing IITs to promote technical and scientific education in India. Creation of University Grants Commission (UGC): He set up the UGC to regulate higher education and ensure quality learning standards. Promotion of Primary Education: He emphasized free and compulsory education for children up to the age of 14, recognizing literacy as the key to national progress. Focus on Women’s Education: Azad believed that educating women was essential for the advancement of society. Cultural and Scientific Institutions: He was instrumental in establishing the Sangeet Natak Akademi, Sahitya Akademi, and Lalit Kala Akademi to promote India’s rich cultural heritage. Maulana Azad was a firm believer in secularism, education, and national integration. He saw education not merely as a means to acquire knowledge, but as a tool to build character and unity among citizens. His famous quote reflects his vision: “Education imparted by heart can bring revolution in the society.” He always advocated for rational thinking, scientific learning, and equal opportunities in education. In recognition of his service to the nation, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was honored with several awards. In 1992, he was posthumously awarded the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award. To commemorate his contributions, the Government of India declared November 11 as National Education Day in 2008. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad passed away on February 22, 1958, in New Delhi. Though he is no longer with us, his legacy lives on through the institutions he built and the educational reforms he envisioned. His ideas continue to inspire educators, policymakers, and students to strive for inclusive, quality, and accessible education. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad’s life was a shining example of intellectual brilliance, patriotism, and dedication to nation-building. From his early writings to his role as India’s first Education Minister, he worked tirelessly to shape an India where knowledge would empower every citizen. Today, as the nation celebrates National Education Day every year on his birth anniversary, it serves as a tribute to a man who believed that education is the foundation of freedom, progress, and unity. सरकारी नौकरियों, जीके अपडेट्स और करेंट अफेयर्स की ताज़ा जानकारी सबसे पहले पाने के लिए:


--- [Abul Kalam Azad | Indian Scholar, Theologian, Nationalist, & Facts] ---
Abul Kalam Azad Who was Abul Kalam Azad? What was Abul Kalam Azad’s stance on the partition of India? What role did Abul Kalam Azad play in the Indian National Congress? Abul Kalam Azad (born November 11, 1888, Mecca [now in Saudi Arabia]—died February 22, 1958, New Delhi, India) was an Islamic theologian who was one of the leaders of the Indian independence movement against British rule in the first half of the 20th century. He was highly respected throughout his life as a man of high moral integrity. He adopted the name Azad (“free”), to which the honorific maulana (a title meaning “master” applied to Islamic scholars) was commonly prefixed. He was a fierce opponent of the partition of India and served as the country’s first minister of education after independence in 1947. Family and education Azad was the son of an Indian Muslim scholar and his Arab wife living in Mecca. The family moved to Calcutta (now Kolkata) when Azad was young, and he received a traditional Islamic education at home from his father and other Islamic scholars rather than at a madrasah (Islamic school). However, he was also influenced by the emphasis that Indian educator Sayyid Ahmad Khan placed on getting a well-rounded education, and he learned English without his father’s knowledge. Journalist and political career Azad became active in journalism when he was in his late teens, and in 1912 he began publishing a weekly Urdu-language newspaper in Calcutta, Al-Hilal (“The Crescent”). The paper quickly became highly influential in the Muslim community for its anti-British stance, notably for its criticism of Indian Muslims who were loyal to the British. Al-Hilal was soon banned by British authorities, as was a second weekly newspaper that Azad had started. By 1916 he had been banished to Ranchi (in present-day Jharkhand state), where he remained until the beginning of 1920. Back in Calcutta, he joined the Indian National Congress (Congress Party) and galvanized India’s Muslim community through an appeal to pan-Islamic ideals. He was particularly active in the short-lived Khilafat movement (1920–24), which defended the Ottoman sultan as the caliph (the head of the worldwide Muslim community) and even briefly enlisted the support of Mahatma Gandhi. Association with Gandhi Azad and Gandhi became close, and Azad was involved in Gandhi’s various civil disobedience (satyagraha) campaigns, including the Salt March (1930). He was imprisoned several times between 1920 and 1945, including for his participation in the anti-British Quit India Movement during World War II. Azad was president of the Congress Party in 1923 and again in 1940–46—though the party was largely inactive during much of his second term, since nearly all of its leadership was in prison. Postindependence career After the war Azad was one of the Indian leaders who negotiated for Indian independence with the British. He tirelessly advocated for a single India that would embrace both Hindus and Muslims while strongly opposing the partition of British India into independent India and Pakistan. He later blamed both Congress Party leaders and Muslim League leader Mohammed Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, for the ultimate division of the subcontinent. When post-partition riots broke out, Azad appealed to Muslims to keep the peace and remain in India, giving a historic speech at the Jama Masjid in Delhi. In 1946 Azad was elected to the constituent assembly that drafted the Constitution of independent India, serving on five separate committees. One of the most prominent members of the assembly, Azad participated in debates that centered on language and education. After India became independent on August 15, 1947, Azad served as minister of education in the government of Jawaharlal Nehru, the country’s first prime minister, from 1947 until his death a decade later. During his tenure, Azad made rural and women’s education a priority and was instrumental in establishing many of India’s top institutions of higher learning, such as the Jamia Millia Islamia in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, and the first Indian Institute of Technology. He also founded the Indian Council for Cultural Relations, a government organization fostering cultural exchange between India and other countries. - Original name: - Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin - Also called: - Maulana Abul Kalam Azad or Maulana Azad - Born: - November 11, 1888, Mecca [now in Saudi Arabia] - Political Affiliation: - Indian National Congress - Subjects Of Study: - Islam Azad’s autobiography, India Wins Freedom, was published posthumously in 1959. In 1992, decades after his death, he was awarded the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award.


--- [Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Biography - Life History, Facts ...] ---
Born: November 11, 1888 Place of Birth: Mecca, Saudi Arabia Parents: Muhammad Khairuddin (Father) and Alia Muhammad Khairuddin (Mother) Spouse: Zulaikha Begum Children: None Education: Homeschooled; Self-taught Association: Indian National Congress Movement: Indian Nationalist Movement Political Ideology: Liberalism; right-winged; Egalitarian Religious views: Islam Publications: Ghubar-e-Khatir (1942-1946); India Wins Freedom (1978); Passed Away: February 22, 1958 Memorial: Abul Kalam Azad tomb, New Delhi, India Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was one of the most influential independence activists during India’s freedom struggle. He was also a noted writer, poet and journalist. He was a prominent political leader of the Indian National Congress and was elected as Congress President in 1923 and 1940. Despite being a Muslim, Azad often stood against the radicalizing policies of other prominent Muslims leaders like Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Azad was the first education minister of independent India. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was posthumously awarded ‘Bharat Ratna’, India's highest civilian honor, in 1992. Early Life and Education Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was born Abul Kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin on November 11, 1888 in Mecca, Islam's main center of pilgrimage. His mother was the daughter of a rich Arabian Sheikh and his father, Maulana Khairuddin, was a Bengali Muslim of Afghan origin. His forefathers came to India during the reign of Mughal Emperor Babar, from Heart, Afghanistan. Azads were the descendent of eminent Ulama or scholars of Islam. In 1890, he returned to Calcutta (now Kolkata) along with the family. Maulana Azad had his initial formal education in Arabic, Persian and Urdu with theological orientation and then philosophy, geometry, mathematics and algebra. He also learnt English language, world history, and politics on his own. Maulana Azad had a natural inclination towards writing and this resulted in the start of the monthly magazine "Nairang-e-Alam" in 1899. He was eleven years old when his mother passed away. Two years later, at the age of thirteen, Azad was married to young Zuleikha Begum. Image Credit: http://www.thefamouspeople.com/profiles/images/maulana-abul-kalam-azad-6.jpg Political Career Early Revolutionary Activities In Egypt, Azad came into contact with the followers of Mustafa Kemal Pasha who were publishing a weekly from Cairo. In Turkey, Maulana Azad met the leaders of the Young Turks Movement. After his return to India from an extensive visit of Egypt, Turkey, Syria and France, Azad met prominent Hindu revolutionaries Sri Aurobindo Ghosh and Shyam Sundar Chakraborty. They helped in developing radical political views and he began to participate in the Indian nationalist movement. Azad fiercely criticized the Muslim politicians who were more inclined towards the communal issues without focusing on the national interest. He also rejected the theories of communal separatism advocated by the All India Muslim League. Azad, inspired by the passion of Indian as well as foreign revolutionary leaders, started publishing a weekly called "Al-Hilal" in 1912. The weekly was a platform to attack the policies of the British Government and highlight the problems faced by the common Indians. The paper became so popular that its circulation figures went up to 26,000 copies. The unique message of patriotism and nationalism blended with religious commitment gained its acceptance among the masses. But these developments disturbed the British Government and in 1914, the British Government put a ban on the weekly. Unfazed by the move, Maulana Azad, few months later, launched a new weekly, called "Al-Balagh". Failed to put a prohibition on the writings of Maulana Azad, the British Government then finally decided to deport him off Calcutta in 1916. When Maulana Azad reached Bihar, he was arrested and put under house arrest. This detention continued till December 31, 1919. After his release on January 1, 1920, Azad returned to the political atmosphere and actively participated in the movement. In fact, he continued to write provocative articles against the British Government. Pre-Independence Activities As an activist demanding the reinstatement of the Caliph in Istanbul, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad came onboard with the Khilafat movement during 1920. He became involved with the Indian freedom struggle through the Non-cooperation movement initiated by Gandhi, of which the Khilafat issue was a big part of. He wholeheartedly advocated the principles of the non-cooperation movement and in the process became drawn to Gandhi and his philosophy. Although initially skeptical of Gandhi’s proposal to launch an intensified drive against the British Raj demanding independence, he later joined the efforts. He travelled all over the country giving speeches and leading various programs of the movement. He worked closely with Vallabhbahi Patel and Dr. Rajendra Prasad. On August 9, 1942, Maulana Azad was arrested along with most of the Congress leadership. Their incarceration lasted for four years and they were released in 1946. During that time, the idea of an independent India had solidified and Maulana headed the Constituent Assembly Elections within Congress as well as led the negotiations with the British Cabinet mission to discuss the terms of independence. He vehemently opposed the idea of partition based on religion and was deeply hurt when the idea went forward to give rise to Pakistan. Post-Independence Activities During the violence that erupted following partition of India, Maulana Azad assured to take up the responsibility for the security of Muslims in India. Towards this, Azad toured the violence-affected regions of borders of Bengal, Assam, Punjab. He helped in establishing the refugee camps and ensured uninterrupted supply of food and other basic materials. It was reported that in the crucial Cabinet meetings both Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Maulana Azad clashed over the security measures in Delhi and the Punjab. The role and contribution of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad could not be overlooked. He was appointed as India's first Minister for Education and inducted in the Constituent Assembly to draft India's constitution. Under Maulana Azad's tenure, a number of measures were undertaken to promote primary and secondary education, scientific education, establishment of universities and promotion of avenues of research and higher studies. Association with the Indian National Congress While extending his support to Mahatma Gandhi and non-cooperation movement, Maulana Azad joined the Indian National Congress in January 1920. He presided over the special session of Congress in September 1923 and was said to be the youngest man elected as the President of the Congress. Maulana Azad emerged as an important national leader of the Indian National Congress Party. He also served as a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) and in the offices of general secretary and president on numerous occasions. In 1928, Maulana Azad endorsed the Nehru Report, formulated by Motilal Nehru. Interestingly, the Motilal Nehru Report was severely criticized by a number of Muslim personalities involved with the freedom movement. As opposed to Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Azad also advocated for the ending of separate electorates based on religion and called for a single nation committed to secularism. In 1930, Maulana Azad was arrested for violation of the salt laws as part of Gandhiji's Salt Satyagraha. He was put in Meerut jail for a year and a half. Death On February 22, 1958 Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, one of the foremost leaders of the Indian freedom struggle passed away. For his invaluable contribution to the nation, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was posthumously awarded India's highest civilian honor, the ‘Bharat Ratna’ in 1992. Legacy Maulana was a firm believer in the co-existence of religions. His dream was that of a unified independent India where Hindu and Muslims co-habited peacefully. Although this vision of Azad was shattered post partition of India, he remained a believer. He was the founder of the Jamia Milia Islamia Institution in Delhi along with fellow khilafat leaders which has blossomed into a renowned University today. His birthday, November 11, is celebrated as National Education Day in India.


--- [Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Biography- Detailed Information] ---
Introduction Move back to the time when India was under British rule, around the period of 1855 that is after the formation of the Indian National Congress. This period has seen the efforts, dedication, and intellectual minds of various moderate leaders like CR Das, Motilal Nehru, Dada Bhai Naroji, and one important name among these names is the ‘Maulana Abdul kalam Azad’. We Bring You the Autobiographies of the Prominent Leaders To Make You - Understand the leadership quality they had and learn from these qualities To imbibe in oneself the same commitment and devotion towards the motherland To make you admire the fearless attitude that surpasses all storms and surges To make you learn from their mistake To make you carry their vision and help build the nation great again. In This Particular Article, Students Will Learn the Following - Introduction Who was Maulana Abdul kalam Azad? Early History of Maulana’s Life Maulana and the Congress Maulana as the Freedom Fighter Conclusion Short essay Task to do Frequently asked questions Who is Abdul Kalam Azad? Abdul kalam Azad, also known as Maulana Abdul kalam Azad or Maulana Azad was an Indian scholar, Islamic theologian, Senior leader of the Indian National Congress during the Indian Independence movement, and an independent activist. He was born on 11 November 1888 in Mecca and his full name is Abdul kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddin Ahmed bin Khairuddin Al-Hussaini Azad. He is commonly known as Maulana Azad where the word Maulana is an honour which means ‘Our Master’ and he adapted Azad as his pen name. Maulana Abdul Azad was highly respected throughout his Life as he was a man of high integrity. Azad in his teenage year’s composed many poetries in Urdu and also had written much work on religion and philosophy. While he was working as a journalist, he published many articles which criticized British rule which eventually led him to get involved in the Indian independence movement. Maulana Azad also became the leader of the Khilafat movement during which he met the Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi. Maulana Azad was moved by Mahatma Gandhi’s ideas of a non-violence approach to fighting against British rule. He became an enthusiastic supporter of Mahatma Gandhi and also worked to organize the non-co-operation movement in protest of the 1919 Rowlatt Acts. At the age of 35, Maulana Azad became the youngest person to serve as the president of the National Congress. Without taking the help of the British government. Maulana Azad in October 1920 was elected as a member of the foundation committee to establish the Jamia Millia Islamia at Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh.In 1931, Maulana Azad was the main organizer of the Dharasana Satyagraha.He also was the most important national leader of the independence movement and also helped in establishing the ideas of secularism and socialism in India. He also helped in launching the Quit India rebellion movement and because of that, he was also imprisoned by other Congress members. Maulana Azad also worked on the unity of the Hindu-Muslim community through his Al-Hilal newspaper. He believed that we as Indians if united will help to make India independent from British rule. Let us learn more about who Abdul Kalam Azad is. Maulana Abdul kalam Azad Information Abdul kalam Full Name: Sayyid Ghulam Muhiyuddin Ahmed bin Khairuddin Al Hussaini Abdul kalam Azad Birth Date: 11 November 1888 When did Abdul kalam Die: 22 February 1958 Age (At the Time of Death): 69 Early Life History of Maulana Abdul kalam Azad Maulana Azad's real name was Sayyid Ghulam Muhiyuddin Ahmed bin Khairuddin Al Hussaini but eventually came to be known as Maulana Abdul kalam Azad. He was born on 11 November 1888 in Makkah. Muhammad Khairuddin was his father and was a Bengali Muslim scholar of Afghan ancestry who wrote twelve books and had thousands of disciplined and claimed noble ancestry while his mother name was Sheikha Alia bint Mohammad, the daughter of Sheikh Mohammad bin Zaher Alwatri who was also a reputed scholar from Medina. Azad was from an orthodox family background as a result that he pursued traditional Islamic education from the beginning. Maulana Azad settled with his family in Calcutta in 1890 where he was homeschooled and self-taught. He was taught by his father at home and then later as years passed he was taught by teachers from various fields. Maulana Azad was educated and trained to become a clergyman and he wrote many works which also included reinterpreting The Holy Quran. He learned Arabic and Persian languages first during his teens and then learned various subjects such as geometry, mathematics, philosophy, and algebra. He also had a keen interest in world history, English, and politics. Azad was very interested in learning new knowledge and that resulted in him opening a new library, a debating society, and a reading room before he even reached the age of twelve. Azad also wrote a biography on the Life of Al-Ghazali at the age of twelve and was also writing articles for a literary magazine known as Makhzan when he was only fourteen years old. When he was fifteen he started teaching students who were twice his age and also completed the traditional course of study at the age of sixteen. By the year 1990, he was the editor of the weekly magazine called Al-Misbah and by 1903 he brought out the monthly journal named as Lissan-us-Sidq. Maulana Azad also got married to a young Muslim girl, Zulaikha Begum when he 13c years old. Azad also developed an interest in the pan-Islamic doctrines of Jamaluddin Afghani and also the Aligarh thoughts of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan. Influenced by the Pan -Islamic spirit he visited countries such as Iraq, Egypt, Syria, and Afghanistan to study the doctrines further. In Egypt, he met many Arab revolutionary activists who inspired him to be a national revolutionary. Maulana Azad as the Congress Leader Maulana Azad was an inspiring personality in the field of politics. He served in the Congress working committee and also in the offices of the general secretary and the president. In the year 1928 Maulana Azad developed a close friendship with Jawaharlal Nehru and began to support the idea of socialism as he believed that it would help in fighting inequality, poverty, and other national challenges. Maulana Azad was also involved in naming the Muslim political party Majlis-e-Ahrar-ul-Islam. Azad accepted the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and believed that nonviolence is the only way that India could be independent of British raj and in 1930 when Mahatma Gandhi embarked on the Dandi Salt March that inaugurated the Salt Satyagraha, Maulana Azad was the one who organized and led the national raid in a nonviolent way on the Dharasana salt works to protest against the increasing salt tax and restriction of its sales and production. Because of the Dandi March, the British government had imprisoned many people who participated in it and among all of them, Azad was also imprisoned in jail between the years 1930 to 1934. In the year 1931 Maulana Azad and many other independent activists were released from jail because of the Gandhi-Irwin pact in which Mahatma Gandhi pledged to give up the Salt Satyagraha movement in return for all his comrades to be released from the jail. Maulana Azad was appointed to organize the Congress election campaign in 1935 when the elections were called under the Government of India Act. Azad also worked on raising funds, selecting trustworthy candidates and also organized volunteers to spread the word of elections, and held many rallies across India which aimed at helping the common people of India understand the importance of the election. In 1936, Maulana Azad backed the idea of Jawaharlal Nehru to be the Congress president and also supported the resolution supporting socialism. Azad again supported the reelection of Nehru in the 1937 election and had organized many campaigns for the same cause. Maulana Azad was in conversation with Jinnah and the Muslim league between the years 1935 and 1937 over the Congress-league coalition and broader political co-operation. Maulana Azad as the Freedom Fighter After returning from Egypt, Maulana Azad met two revolutionaries, Aurobindo Ghosh and Sri Shyam Sundar Chakravarty from Bengal. He was inspired to make India Independent of British rule. He joined the revolutionary movement against British rule. The revolutionary activities were restricted to Bihar and Bengal which was not helpful to fight the British as many people did not know about the cause. Maulana Azad within two years was able to set up secret revolutionary centres all over North India and Bombay this helped many people joining the revolutionary movement to fight the British. During this time there was a rumour that the British government was using the Muslim community against India’s Freedom struggle, this caused many of the people who the revolutionary movement to be anti-muslim. Maulana Azad was able to convince his colleagues to shed their hostility towards the Muslims. In the year 1912, Maulana Abdul kalam Azad started a weekly journal in Urdu called Al-Hilal. The main purpose of this journal was to increase awareness of Independent India and to include more revolutionary recruits from the Muslim community. Due to the Morley-Minto reforms, a bad blood relation was developed between the Hindu-Muslim community but Al-Hilal played an important role in ending the disputes between the Hindu and Muslim communities as it became a revolutionary mouthpiece that helped spread the extremist ideas but later it was banned by the British government in the year 1914. This did not stop Maulana Azad from promoting Indian nationalism as a result of that he started another weekly magazine called as Al-Balagh with the same mission of promoting revolutionary ideas based on Hindu-Muslim unity and also urged people to fight for independent India. In 1916, the British government again banned Al-Balagh and even imprisoned Maulana Azad for four years at Ranchi. Maulana Azad was released in 1929 from prison and soon after the release, he convinced the Muslim community to fight against the British through the Khilafat Movement. In 1920, Maulana Azad joined the Indian national Congress and in the same year joined the Non-Cooperation Movement started by Mahatma Gandhi. In 1923, Azad was elected as the president of the session of the Congress in Delhi. Azad was arrested and put in the Meerut jail for a year and a half for the violation of the salt laws as part of Mahatma Gandhi’s Salt Satyagraha Movement but after a year he was released. Maulana Azad became the president of the Congress in the year 1940 and remained in the post till 1946. he always was convinced of the idea that India should be a secular democratic country and always worked for the unity of the Hindu-Muslim community. he was against the idea of partition and opposed it but in the end, partition hurt him greatly as it shattered his dream of a unified nation where Muslims and Hindus can coexist and prosper together. Short Essay on Abdul Kalam Azad Abdul kalam Azad’s original name was Abdul kalam Ghulam Muhiyuddi and he was also called Maulana Abdul kalam of Maulana Azad. He was born on November 11, 1888, in Mecca. Azad was the son of Muhammad Khairuddin, an Indian Muslim scholar living in Mecca and his mother was Sheikha Alia bint Mohammad. When he was young his family moved back to India and he received a traditional Islamic education at home from his father and other Islamic scholars. Azad was influenced by the teaching of an Indian educator Sir Sayyid Ahmad Khan and learned English as well. Maulana Azad at the age of twelve got very much active in journalism. In 1912 he started writing daily journals and also published a weekly Urdu-language journal by the name Al-Hilal in Calcutta. The journal mainly focused on the idea of how the Muslim community can help in fighting against British rule in India. Al-Hilal also criticized the Muslim rulers who were supporting the British government. The journal became very famous among the Muslim community because of its Anti-British idea and because of that, it was banned by the British government. In 1920 he joined the Indian National Congress and helped spread the idea of Independent India among the Indian Muslim community. Between the years 1920 to 1924, he also participated in the Khilafat movement which defended the Ottoman Sultan as the head of the Muslim community. Maulana Azad became very close to Mahatma Gandhi and was involved in various civil disobedience campaigns which were organized by Gandhi such as the Salt Satyagraha movement. Because he participated in the salt satyagraha movement, he was imprisoned in the year 1920, and later on, he was again prisoned because he participated in the Quit India movement. Maulana Azad also became the president of the Indian Congress Party in the year 1923. Maulana Azad was one of the leaders who negotiated with the British for Indian independence. He believed in the idea of secular India and worked tirelessly for an India that would embrace the idea of Hindu-Muslim unity. Azad strongly opposed the partition of India and tried to not let the British divide India. He later blamed Mohammed Ali Jinnah and Congress party leaders for the division of the subcontinent. After India got Independence, he served as the minister of education in India from 1947 until 1958. Azad died of a stroke in 1958 and decades after his death Azad was awarded the Bharat Ratna which is India’s highest civilian award. Since we have learned who Maulana Abdul kalam Azad is, let us look at some frequently asked questions. The Task to do - After reading the autobiography, students are required to do a SWOT analysis of the Life of Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad. That is students are required to identify the strengths of Maulana Azad and weaknesses if any you felt Maulana had. Identify the opportunities he had and the threats he faced during all these periods. This exercise will make you think analytically of the Life of Maula and help you extract the learning you want to take away with you. Conclusion Maulana Abdul Kalam Azaad was a renowned poet and scholar. He was very fluent in many languages and was a very good leader as he convinced many people to join the Indian Freedom fight. Azad worked for Indian nationalism and worked for the Hindu-Muslim unity in India. He is not only remembered for his role as the Freedom Fighter for Indian Independence but also as the first education minister of independent India from 1947 to 1948. On February 22, 1958, he passed away due to a stroke. For his invaluable contribution to the nation, Maulana Azad was awarded Bharat Ratna which is India’s highest civilian honour in the year 1992. FAQs on Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Biography 1. Which post did Maula Abdul Kalam hold after India got Independence? During the interim government itself Maulana Abdul kalam took charge as Education minister and he remained the education minister until he died in 1958. And thus every year since 2008, on November 11th which is the birth anniversary of Maula Abdul Kalam, we celebrate the Nation Education Day. 2. What are some of the interesting facts about Maula Abdul kalam Azad? Some of the important facts about Azad are - He was born in Saudi Arabia and came back to India when he was two years old He never went to a school and did homeschooling He knew many languages like Hindi, English, Arabic, Persia, Hindustani, etc In 1912 he started a weekly journal Al-Hilal, forging Hindu-Muslim unity and also increasing the revolutionary recruits amongst the Muslims He supported the Non-cooperation movement and joined INC in 1920 In 1940 he became the president of INC and remained as the president till 1946 He founded Jamia Millia Islamia University, in 1920 He shaped the modern education system like IITs, IISc If you have more interesting facts about Maulana Azad please write in the comment box. 3. What was Maulana Azad’s view on the formation of a separate state of Pakistan? Maulana was a visionary and opposed the formation of a separate state of Pakistan. As he feared that without a proper constitutional measure the rights of the Muslim minorities would be exploited. And the partition would have left the Muslims in minority in many areas under the tyranny of the majority. Thus, Maulana and Jinnah had contradictory views on the issue of partition. 4. What is the Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Trophy? It is a trophy started in the year 1956-57 which is awarded to the overall Top Performing University in Sports of the preceding year. The aim behind giving the trophy is for promoting competitive sports in the university sector and to develop interest among students and motivate them to take up competitive sports. 5. What is the name of the autobiography of Maulana Abdul kalam Azad? Maulana Abdul kalam Azad was a great writer who wrote the journals Al-Hilal and Al-Balagh. An autobiography was also written with the title ‘India Wins Freedom’. 6. What is Celebrated on Maulana Abul Kalam’s Birthday? Maulana Abul Kalam was the first education minister of independent India. To celebrate his life and his achievement towards the education system in India every year Azad birthday, November 11 is celebrated as the 'National Education Day'. 7. What are the Contributions of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad? Maulana Abul Kalam Azad was the first education minister of Independent India. He also contributed to establishing many educational institutions such as Jamia Millia Islamia and the IIT Kharagpur. He was also a strong believer that the women of the country should be educated and also advised that free education should be provided to children up to the age of 14.
