=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Which river is called as Lion's mouth? - StudyCountry.com]
What is Indus River called in Tibet? The Indus also known as the Sindhu, is the westernmost of the Himalayan rivers in India. It originates from a glacier near Bokhar Chu (31°15' N latitude and 81°40' E longitude) in the Tibetan region at an altitude of 4,164 m in the Kailash Mountain range. In Tibet, it is known as 'Singi Khamban' or Lion's mouth.
URL: https://www.studycountry.com/wiki/which-river-is-called-as-lions-mouth

[Basin Details : Indus Basin Organisation | Indus Basin Organisation - CWC]
Originating from the Kailash Mountain, it flows in a constricted valley north-westward through Tibet, where it is called as Singi Khamban or Lion's mouth. In ladakh it follows a long nearly straight course between the Ladakh range and the Zaskar range.
URL: https://cwc.gov.in/ibo/about-basins

[Indus River]
The traditional source of the river is the Sênggê Kanbab (Sênggê Zangbo) or "Lion's Mouth", a perennial spring not far from the sacred Mount Kailash, marked by ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indus_River

[Which of the following river known as "Singi Khamban"? |ForumIAS]
The Indus also known as the Sindhu, is the westernmost of the Himalayan rivers in India. It originates from a glacier near Bokhar Chu (31°°15′ N latitude and 81°°40′ E longitude) in the Tibetan region at an altitude of 4,164 m in the Kailash Mountain range. In Tibet, it is known as 'Singi Khamban; or Lion's mouth. Source: NCERT
URL: https://forumias.com/blog/question/which-of-the-following-river-known-as-singi-khamban/

[Which river is known as Singi Khamban Lion's mouth in Tibet?]
Discover which major river is called Singi Khamban (Lion's mouth) in Tibet. Learn about the Indus River's origin and its names across different regions.
URL: https://prepp.in/question/which-river-is-known-as-singi-khamban-lion-s-mouth-6509a72c554d398637f9a9ad


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Which river is called as Lion's mouth? - StudyCountry.com] ---
Which river is called as Lion's mouth? The Indus river begins its journey near the Mansarovar Lake, in Tibet in China. The people there identify the river as Singhi Khamban or Lion's Mouth.Which river is named after a lion? The Indus river is one of the world's largest river basins. It is also known as Sindhu. In china(Tibet), it is known as Singi Khambai or Lion's mouth.What is the Indus River also known as? The Indus River, sometimes also called the Sindhu River, has many other names including Sengge Chu ("Lion River") in Tibetan, Abaseen ("The Father of Rivers") in Pashto, and Shendu in Chinese. The Indus River flows through the modern countries of China, India, and Pakistan.What is Indus River called in Tibet? The Indus also known as the Sindhu, is the westernmost of the Himalayan rivers in India. It originates from a glacier near Bokhar Chu (31°15' N latitude and 81°40' E longitude) in the Tibetan region at an altitude of 4,164 m in the Kailash Mountain range. In Tibet, it is known as 'Singi Khamban' or Lion's mouth.What does the idiom lion's mouth mean? to deliberately place yourself in a dangerous or difficult situation. Put your head into the lion's mouth and just say `I don't know what the hell is going on. 'Which River is called as the Lion's Mouth? What is the quote about lions mouth? If you place your head in a lion's mouth, then you cannot complain one day if he happens to bite it off.What does the phrase of the first water mean? Of the finest quality, as in That was a play of the first water. This idiom refers to a grading system for diamonds for their color or luster (compared to the shininess of water). The system is no longer used but the term, used figuratively since the early 1800s, has survived it.What is the holy river of Tibet? It is called the Ghaghara in India—the largest tributary of the Ganga by volume. In Tibet, the spiritual source of the Karnali is called Mapcha Khambab, which means the river that originates from the Peacock's mouth. Little is known about the exact source of the Karnali. thethirdpole.Which is the longest river of India? Answer: Ganga is known as the longest river in India. It originates from the western side of India, which is also known as the Gangotri glaciers. The overall length of the Ganga river is considered to be 2525 kilometres.Which is the largest river in India? The Ganges River- 2525 kmThe Ganges is the longest river in India and also the largest river in India followed by Godavari (1465 kms). The states that are covered by this waterbody are Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and West Bengal. Why Indus is called father of all rivers? The ancient Hindu scriptures referred to Indus as the only male river god, reducing the standing of others (sexist as it seems now). Abbasin, 'the father of Rivers', was how it was known in the north. The Rig Veda, on more than one occasion, waxed lyrical about the river's charm.Which is the largest river in Pakistan? Tributaries are listed from the mouth to the source. The longest and the largest river in Pakistan is the Indus River. Around two-thirds of water supplied for irrigation and in homes come from the Indus and its associated rivers.Which river flows from India to Pakistan? The Indus receives its most-notable tributaries from the eastern Punjab Plain. These five rivers—the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej—give the name Punjab (“Five Rivers”) to the region divided between Pakistan and India.Which river is known as river of Heaven? According to Hindu mythology, the Ganges was once a river of heaven that flowed across the sky. Long ago, she agreed to fall to earth to aid a king named Bhagiratha, whose ancestors had been burned to ash by the angry gaze of an ascetic they had disturbed during meditation.Which river is named after a god? In Hinduism, rivers are often personified as deities. In the Rigveda, there are mentions of holy rivers such as the Sarasvati. The river Ganges is considered to be most sacred, and is personified as the goddess Ganga.What river is named after the sun? Sun River, river in northwest-central Montana, U.S. It rises in Flathead National Forest, in Teton county near the Continental Divide, and flows southeastward for a course of 130 miles (209 km) into the Missouri River at Great Falls.Which is longest river in Earth? The Nile is credited as the longest river in the world. Its main source is Lake Victoria in east central Africa. From its farthest stream in Burundi, it extends 6,695 km (4,160 miles) in length.Which is the largest river of world? The Nile River is the longest river in the world at 4,132 miles (6,650 km). It Flows from central Africa northward through northeastern Africa to the Mediterranean Sea and has three principal streams: the Blue Nile, the Atbara, and the White Nile.What is the name of the world's holiest river? The Ganges (Ganga) River is a sacred body of water to Hindus that begins high in the Himalaya Mountains and empties out into the Bay of Bengal. The surrounding river basin has a population of more than four hundred million people.Which river is holy to Buddhists? Mahatama Buddha attains enlightenment near the bank of the Niranjana river. From there on it is considered to be the holy symbol of Buddhism connected with the life of Buddha. The people located nearby perform religious practice in the river.What is the holiest city in Tibet? Lhasa was established as a city in 1960. The centre of the city is occupied by the four-story Tsuglagkhang, or Gtsug-lag-khang (Jokhang), Temple, built in the mid-7th century ce and considered the holiest place in Tibet.Why is the water called life? All the biochemical processes which occur in plants and animals, our surroundings, etc. require water to function. It is required for the existence of life on earth as it is an essential component of all the biological processes. We cannot imagine our lives without the presence of water.What is the meaning of hear me out? to listen to someone until they have said everything they want to say: At least hear me out before making up your mind.What does the idiom kick the bucket mean? Definition of 'to kick the bucket'If you say that someone has kicked the bucket, you mean that they have died. [informal] Synonyms: die, expire, perish, pass away More Synonyms of to kick the bucket. See full dictionary entry for bucket. ← Previous question Is it safe in Faliraki Rhodes? Is it safe in Faliraki Rhodes? Next question → What is minutes in longitude? What is minutes in longitude?


--- [Basin Details : Indus Basin Organisation | Indus Basin Organisation - CWC] ---
Description about Indus Basin and its Sub Basins Salient Features of Indus Basin (Upto border) Basin Extent Longitude 72° 28’ to 79° 39’ E Latitude 29° 8’ to 36° 59’N Length of Indus River (Km) 1114 (in India) Catchment Area (Sq.km.) 321289 Average Water Resource Potential(MCM) 73310 Utilizable Surface Water Resource(MCM) 46000 Live Storage Capacity of Completed Projects (MCM) 16222.0 Live Storage Capacity of Projects Under Construction (MCM) 100.00 Total Live Storage Capacity of Projects (MCM) 16322.00 No. of Hydrological Observation Stations of CWC 26 No. of Flood Forecasting Stations of CWC 0 Indus River Basin. The Indus is one of the most important drainage systems of the subcontinent of India. It has a length of 2880 Km, of which 709Km lies in India. The catchment area of the Indus is about 1,165,000 Sq. km, out of which about 321,248 Sq. Km is in India. The State-wise distribution of the drainage area is given below: Sr.No State Drainage area (sq.km) 1. Jammu and Kashmir 193,762 2. Himachal Pradesh 51,356 3. Punjab 50,304 4. Rajasthan 15,814 5. Haryana 9,939 6. Chandigarh 114 Total 321,289 The Indus is the western most River system in the subcontinent. Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Beas and Satluj are its main tributaries. The Indus originates from the Bokhar Chu (glacier) in northern slopes of Mt. Kailash (6714m). It drains the largest number of glaciers and mountain slopes of the Karakorum, Ladakh, Zaskarand Himalayan Ranges. Originating from the Kailash Mountain, it flows in a constricted valley north-westward through Tibet, where it is called as Singi Khamban or Lion’s mouth. In ladakh it follows a long nearly straight course between the Ladakh range and the Zaskar range. In the first 480 km, it flows along the northern flank of the Zaskar range over a flat country at heights over 3200 m where it receives River Zaskar below Leh. Suruand Dras are the other left bank tributaries which join the Indus near Kargil. Moving north-westward, the Indus is joined by the Shyok-Nubra tributaries. These tributaries arise from the Siachin Glacier (Karakoram Range). At Skardu, at a little distance below the Shyok, the Shigar River meets River Indus. Gilgit is another important tributary which comes from the west to join Indus. Downward; the Indus crosses the central Himalayan range through a huge synclinal gorge. The River passes by the Nanga-Parvat and turns south-west to enter Pakistan. Jhelum River Basin (Sub Basin of Indus Basin) The River Jhelum formed by the water of a spring viz. Cheshma Verinag situated at the foot hills accommodating Banihal pass in the south eastern corner of the Kashmir Valley and flows towards west through the Kashmir Valley. In the course up to Anantnag town three major tributaries viz. Sandran River, Bringi River and Arapath joins on its right flank. Lidder a biggest River of all the effluents that forms the head waters of River Jhelum and is fed by a number of glaciers from the high ranges, joins on its right flank at 2 km. downstream of Khannabal town. River Vishow and Rambiara drains their water on its left flank at 4.82 Km upstream from Sangam town and between Sangam and Srinagar, Jhelum River receives two small streams viz. Watlara and Arapal on the right flank, and three small streams viz. Rambiara, Sasara, Romuhi on the left flank. Romushi River ordinarily swells up considerably when it is joined by spill from Rambiara River. From Khanabal to Srinagar River Jhelum flows along the right side of the valley abutting close to the hills, in a zigzag manner. Just before the River enters the main city of Srinagar which is situated on its both banks it is joined near Shergari by a stream which drains from Dal Lake. At Banyari 20 km. downstream the River joins with the water of Wullar Lakes and takes off from the lake at its south west corner and flows to the south west direction through the alluvial plain for a length of 21 km up to the bridge at Baramulla. At Baramulla the River enters a gorge in the hills. After flowing through this gorge for about 5 km, the out fall channel takes off a sharp bend towards the left. The end of the gorge at Khadanyar is marked by huge rock projecting into the River from the left side. Below Khadanyar River takes a sharp turn rushing over rapids. From Wullar Lake to Khadanyar in a stretch of 26 km number of streams viz. Wingle, Pohru, Vij meet the River. Chenab River Basin (Sub Basin of Indus Basin) The river Chenab (or Chandra Bhaga) is formed after the two streams; the Chandra and the Bhaga merge with each other at Tandi. The Chandra and the Bhaga originate from the South-West and North West faces of Barelacha pass respectively in the Himalayan canton of Lahuland Spiti valley in Himachal Pradesh. The Chandra initially flowing Southeast for about 88 kms sweeps round the base of the mid Himalayas and joins the Bhaga at Tandi, after traversing a total length of about 125 km. The course of Bhaga up to the confluence is 80 km only having a steep slope with an average fall of about 24 meters per kilometer. There-after the united stream, known as Chandra Bhaga (Chenab), flows in a North-Westerly course for about 48 km where it receives its first major tributary the Miyar Nallah on the right bank. Then it flows another 96 km generally in a Northerly direction in Himachal Pradesh till it crosses the Pangi valley before entering to Paddar area of Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir State. In Padder valley it is joined by Bhut nallah at Gulabgarh. The river flows in a North West direction in this reach for a distance of 61 km where it is joined on the right bank by its biggest tributary, the Marusudar at Bhandarkot. Further downstream, the river flows in a Southerly direction for a distance of about 32 km up to Thathri and then takes a Westerly course. In this reach, about 15 km downstream of Thathari, Niru Nallah joins the Chenab River on its left Bank. Thereafter the river flows generally in a North West direction for another 41 km till it receives a tributary Bischeleri on the right bank. After wards the river traverses in west direction for a distance of about 64 km. In this reach a number of small streams namely Cheneni, Talsuen, Yabu, Ans join on the right bank , and Katu Nallah, Mandial and Painthal Khad joins on the left bank .At the downstream of Ans river confluence, the river changes its direction and takes a Southerly course for about 55 km up to Akhnoor. Thereafter it enters into Sialkot district of Pakistan. The total length of the river from confluence of Chandra and Bhaga to Akhnoor is about 410 km. Ravi River (Sub Basin of Indus Basin) The Ravi River originates in the Himalayas in the Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh. The River drains a total catchment area of 14,442 sq.km in India after flowing for a length of 725 km. Flowing westward, it is hemmed by the PirPanjal and Dhauladhar ranges, forming a triangular zone. It follows a north-westerly course and is a perennial River. It is the smallest of the five Punjab Rivers that rises from glacier fields at an elevation of 14,000 ft. (4,300 m), on the southern side of the Mid Himalayas. It flows through Barabhangal, Bara Bansu and Chamba districts. It flows in rapids in its initial reaches with boulders seen scattered in the bed of the River. The Ravi River in this reach flows in a gorge with a River bed slope of 1:185 ft. per mile, and is mostly fed by snow melt, as this region falls under rain shadow zone. Two of its major tributaries, the Budhil and Nai or Dhona join 40 miles (64 km) downstream from its source. It is the most important River of the district Kathua. The length of the River in the district is approximately 55 km. Satluj River (Sub basin of Indus Basin): The Satluj River, which is one of the major five rivers of the erstwhile Punjab, is a main source of water for Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi & Rajasthan. This river is a tributary of the river Indus & originates near Mansarover Lake in Tibet at an altitude 4572 m. Satluj is joined by the river Spiti at flows through 320 kms from border through Shipkilla, Pooh, Powari, Tapri, Karcham, Nathpa, Rampur, Sunni and Dehar to meet Gobindsagar reservoir (Bhakra) near Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh. Status of Surface Water Development The water resources of the basin is well developed. During the pre-plan period many diversion works such as Upper Bari Doab canal, Sirhind canal, Ranbir canal, Eastern canals and Gang canal existed in the basin. Important projects taken up and completed in the plan period include Bhakra-Nangal, Beas project, and Harike barrage. Rajasthan canal, Thein dam, Sutlej-Yamuna link canal and Ravi-Tawi lift irrigation are some of the important projects under construction in the basin. The present surface water utilization in the basin has been assessed at an average of 40-42 cubic km. which is 87% of the utilizable surface water potential. Nearly 71% of the utilizable ground water in the basin has also been exploited so far. The water resource development in the Indus basin is governed by various provision of the Indus Water Treaty, 1960. According to this Treaty, the water of the Eastern Rivers, namely, the Ravi, the Beas and the Sutlej, shall be available for the unrestricted sue by India. India has also been permitted to make from the Western River, domestic non-consumptive uses, uses for run-of-the river hydroelectric plants and specified agricultural use and construction of storage works.


--- [Indus River] ---
The Indus ( IN-dəs) is a transboundary river of Asia and a trans-Himalayan river of South and Central Asia. The 3,180 km (1,980 mi) river rises in the Tibet Autonomous Region of China where it is known as Sengge Zangbo, flows northwest through the disputed Kashmir region, first through the Indian-administered Ladakh, and then the Pakistani-administered Gilgit-Baltistan, bends sharply to the left after the Nanga Parbat massif, and flows south-by-southwest through Pakistan, before bifurcating and emptying into the Arabian Sea, its main stem located near the port city of Karachi.
The Indus River has a total drainage area of circa 1,120,000 km2 (430,000 mi2). Its estimated annual flow is around 175 km3/a (5,500 m3/s), making it one of the 50 largest rivers in the world in terms of average annual flow. Its left-bank tributary in Ladakh is the Zanskar River, and its left-bank tributary in the plains is the Panjnad River which is formed by the successive confluences of the five Punjab rivers, namely the Chenab, Jhelum, Ravi, Beas, and Sutlej rivers. Its principal right-bank tributaries are the Shyok, Gilgit, Kabul, Kurram, and Gomal rivers. Beginning in a mountain spring and fed with glaciers and rivers in the Himalayan, Karakoram, and Hindu Kush ranges, the river supports the ecosystems of temperate forests, plains, and arid countryside.
Geologically, the headwaters of the Indus and to their east those of the Yarlung Tsangpo (later in its course, the Brahmaputra) flow along the Indus-Yarlung suture zone, which defines the boundary along which the Indian plate collided with the Eurasian plate in the Early Eocene (approximately 50 Million years ago). These two Eurasian rivers, whose courses were continually diverted by the rising Himalayas, define the western and eastern limits, respectively, of the mountain range.   After the Indus debouches from its narrow Himalayan valley, it forms, along with its tributaries, the Punjab region of South Asia. The lower course of the river ends in a large delta in the Sindh province of Pakistan.  
Historically, the Indus was important to many cultures. The 3rd millennium BC saw the rise of Indus Valley Civilisation, a major urban civilization of the Bronze Age. During the 2nd millennium BC, the Punjab region was mentioned in the Rigveda hymns as Sapta Sindhu and in the Avesta religious texts as Hapta Həndu (both terms meaning "seven rivers"). Early historical kingdoms that arose in the Indus Valley include Gandhāra and Sindhu-Sauvīra. The Indus River came into the knowledge of the Western world early in the classical period, when King Darius of Persia sent his Greek subject Scylax of Caryanda to explore the river, c. 515 BC.




--- [Which of the following river known as "Singi Khamban"? |ForumIAS] ---
Q. Which of the following river known as “Singi Khamban”? Answer: A Notes: Explanation: The Indus System: It is one of the largest river basins of the world, covering an area of 11,65,000 sq. km (in India it is 321, 289 sq. km and a total length of 2,880 km (in India 1,114 km). - The Indus also known as the Sindhu, is the westernmost of the Himalayan rivers in India. - It originates from a glacier near Bokhar Chu (31°°15′ N latitude and 81°°40′ E longitude) in the Tibetan region at an altitude of 4,164 m in the Kailash Mountain range. - In Tibet, it is known as ‘Singi Khamban; or Lion’s mouth. Source: NCERT


--- [Which river is known as Singi Khamban Lion's mouth in Tibet?] ---
Which river is known as Singi Khamban Lion's mouth in Tibet? Indus The question asks about a specific river known by a special name, Singi Khamban, in Tibet. This name translates to "Lion's mouth." We need to identify which of the given rivers is referred to by this name in that region. Let's look at the options provided: Each of these is a major river flowing through or originating in the Himalayan region, affecting India and neighboring countries. The Indus River is one of the longest rivers in Asia. It originates in the northern slopes of the Kailash Range in Tibet, near Lake Manasarovar. In Tibet, the Indus River is known by the local name "Singi Khamban" or "Senge Tsangpo." This name, Singi Khamban, literally means 'Lion's mouth'. From its origin in Tibet, the Indus flows northwest through Ladakh in India, then turns south into Pakistan, eventually draining into the Arabian Sea. Based on the origins and names of these rivers in Tibet, the river known as Singi Khamban is the Indus River. Therefore, the river referred to as Singi Khamban, or 'Lion's mouth', in Tibet is the Indus River. This name is specific to the upper reaches of the Indus in the Tibetan Plateau. | River | Origin Location | Name in Tibet (if applicable) | |---|---|---| | Indus | Kailash Range (near Lake Manasarovar), Tibet | Singi Khamban (Senge Tsangpo) | | Brahmaputra | Chemayungdung Glacier, Tibet | Yarlung Tsangpo | | Ganga | Gangotri Glacier, Uttarakhand, India | Not originating in Tibet | | Yamuna | Yamunotri Glacier, Uttarakhand, India | Not originating in Tibet | The Indus River is crucial for the agriculture and economy of Pakistan, and significantly impacts Ladakh in India. It supported the ancient Indus Valley Civilization, one of the world's earliest urban civilizations. Its journey from the high mountains of Tibet through diverse landscapes highlights its importance as a major transboundary river system. Which group of rivers is a part of the peninsular drainage system? On which of the following river banks is the city of Nasik located? 'Jhakham Multipurpose Project' is located: Anasagar Lake is located in which one of the following States? In which of the following states is Saryu river located?
