=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[The Weight of These Wings - Wikipedia]
The Weight of These Wings is the sixth studio album by American country music artist Miranda Lambert. It was released on November 18, 2016, via RCA Records Nashville.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Weight_of_These_Wings

[Miranda Lambert's album "The Weight of These Wings" certified Platinum ...]
Vanner Records/RCA Records Nashville GRAMMY Award-winner Miranda Lambert's sixth studio album The Weight of These Wings is now certified PLATINUM by the RIAA. Released on November 18, The Weight Of These Wings arrived at No.1 on the Billboard Country Albums Chart with 122k albums sold and No. 3 on the Billboard Top 200 all genre Chart with 133k total consumption. Now, 33 weeks after its ...
URL: https://www.countryschatter.com/2017/07/miranda-lamberts-album-the-weight-of-these-wings-certified-platinum-by-riaa/

[Miranda Lambert's 'The Weight of These Wings' certified platinum]
Jul 11, 2017 · I declared the latest release from the former Tishomingo resident my favorite album of 2016 here. In addition, the first song released from the now-platinum album, “Vice,” hit the country radio airwaves almost a year ago to date, when it released on July 18, 2016. The debut single was just an early taste from what fans would eventually come to know as "The Weight Of These Wings" also ...
URL: https://www.oklahoman.com/story/entertainment/columns/brandy-mcdonnell/2017/07/11/miranda-lamberts-the-weight-of-these-wings-certified-platinum/60588704007/

[Miranda Lambert discography]
The album was certified platinum by the RIAA. On November 18, 2016, Lambert released her seventh studio album titled The Weight of These Wings. It debuted at ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miranda_Lambert_discography

[Miranda Lambert’s ‘Wings’ Reaches Platinum Heights]
Jul 10, 2017 · Miranda Lambert ’s latest album The Weight of These Wings has reached another peak, as it has just been certified Platinum by the RIAA. Released on Nov. 18, 2016, The Weight Of These Wings is Lambert’s sixth studio album and debuted at No.1 on the Billboard Country Albums Chart with 122,000 albums sold and No. 3 on the Billboard Top 200 all genre chart. The project included the hit single ...
URL: https://musicrow.com/2017/07/miranda-lamberts-wings-reaches-platinum-heights/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [The Weight of These Wings - Wikipedia] ---
The Weight of These Wings is the sixth studio album by American country music artist Miranda Lambert. It was released on November 18, 2016, via RCA Records Nashville. The album consists of two discs, with Disc 1 titled The Nerve, and Disc 2 titled The Heart. The album debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard Country Albums chart and No. 3 on the all-genre US Billboard 200 chart, and has been certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). In addition to winning Album of the Year at the 2017 ACM Awards, it is considered by several music publications as one of the best albums of the year. In 2020, the album was ranked at 480 on Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time list.


--- [Miranda Lambert's album "The Weight of These Wings" certified Platinum ...] ---
Vanner Records/RCA Records Nashville GRAMMY Award-winner Miranda Lambert’s sixth studio album The Weight of These Wings is now certified PLATINUM by the RIAA. Released on November 18, The Weight Of These Wings arrived at No.1 on the Billboard Country Albums Chart with 122k albums sold and No. 3 on the Billboard Top 200 all genre Chart with 133k total consumption. Now, 33 weeks after its release, The Weight of These Wings is PLATINUM. The Weight of These Wings which has been praised by critics from NPR, Rolling Stone, The New York Times, Associated Press, The New Yorker, Billboard, The Los Angeles Times, Entertainment Weekly to name a few and was awarded the ALBUM OF THE YEAR at the Academy of Country Music (ACM) Awards this past April. In addition, the first song released from the now PLATINUM album, “Vice,” hit the Country Radio airwaves almost a year ago to date, when it released on July 18, 2016. The debut single was just an early taste from what fans would eventually come to know as The Weight Of These Wings also received multiple GRAMMY and ACM Award nominations on its own. The Weight Of These Wings features 24 songs and was produced by Frank Liddell, Glenn Worf, and Eric Masse. https://www.countryschatter.com/2017/07/miranda-lamberts-album-the-weight-of-these-wings-certified-platinum-by-riaa/AwardsMiscellaneousPress Releaseacademy of country music,album of the year,Billboard,Miranda Lambert,RIAA Certified Platinum,The Weight Of These Wings,Vanner Records/RCA Records Nashville


--- [Miranda Lambert's 'The Weight of These Wings' certified platinum] ---
Miranda Lambert's 'The Weight of These Wings' certified platinum Vanner Records/RCA Records Nashville Grammy Award-winner Miranda Lambert’s sixth studio album "The Weight of These Wings" is now certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America, according to a news release. Released on Nov. 18, "The Weight Of These Wings" arrived at No.1 on the Billboard Country Albums Chart with 122,000 albums sold and No. 3 on the Billboard Top 200 all genre Chart with 133,000 total consumption. Now, 33 weeks after its release, "The Weight of These Wings" has reached platinum levels. "The Weight of These Wings" has been praised by critics from NPR, Rolling Stone, The New York Times, Associated Press, The New Yorker, Billboard, The Los Angeles Times, Entertainment Weekly, to name a few, and as previously reported, it was awarded album of the year at the Academy of Country Music Awards in April. I declared the latest release from the former Tishomingo resident my favorite album of 2016 here. In addition, the first song released from the now-platinum album, “Vice,” hit the country radio airwaves almost a year ago to date, when it released on July 18, 2016. The debut single was just an early taste from what fans would eventually come to know as "The Weight Of These Wings" also received multiple Grammy and ACM Award nominations on its own. The double album "The Weight Of These Wings" features 24 songs and was produced by Frank Liddell, Glenn Worf, and Eric Masse. -BAM


--- [Miranda Lambert discography] ---
American country music singer Miranda Lambert has released eleven studio albums, one extended play, one video album, and has made 23 other album appearances. She has released 39 singles (including seven as a featured artist), nine promotional singles, and 37 music videos (including five guest appearances). Lambert has sold 7 million albums in the United States, with her first seven studio albums being certified platinum. In 2001, Lambert released a self-titled and self-financed independent album. After gaining exposure as the third-place winner of the television competition Nashville Star, Lambert signed with Epic Nashville in 2004.
Lambert's debut major-label album, Kerosene, was released in March 2005. Although its debut single, "Me and Charlie Talking", only reached 27 on the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart, the album debuted at number 1 on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart and 18 on the Billboard 200 list. The second single, entitled "Bring Me Down", was a second Top 40 hit. The release did not spawn a major hit until the title track was issued, peaking at number 15 on the Hot Country Songs chart, pressing the album to certify platinum in the United States. Her third album, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, was released in May 2007, and also debuted at number 1 on the Top Country Albums chart, but peaked at number 6 on the Billboard 200 list. The title track was released as the lead single, but only peaked at number 50. The album's second single, "Famous in a Small Town", became her highest-peaking hit at that point, reaching number 14 in mid-2007. It was the third spawned single, entitled "Gunpowder & Lead", that yielded Lambert her first Top 10 hit on the Billboard Country Songs chart, peaking at number 7. The song's background and story yielded Crazy Ex-Girlfriend to certify gold in the United States in 2008, after selling 500,000 copies. The final single, "More Like Her", became her fourth Top 20 hit, after peaking at 17 in early 2009.
Revolution, was released in September 2009. It became Lambert's third release to debut at number 1 on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart, while also debuting at number 8 on the Billboard 200. The lead single, "Dead Flowers", was released in May 2009, and peaked within the Top 40. The album's second and third singles, "White Liar" and "The House That Built Me", have become her highest-charting singles to date. The final two singles from Revolution were "Only Prettier" and "Heart Like Mine", the latter has become Miranda's second number one hit. Her fifth studio album, Four the Record, was released in November 2011. The album produced five singles: "Baggage Claim", "Over You", "Fastest Girl in Town", "Mama's Broken Heart", and "All Kinds of Kinds". The first four singles reached the top 10 of the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart, with "Over You" becoming her third number one country single.
Lambert released her sixth studio album Platinum on June 3, 2014. The album debuted at number one on Billboard Top Country Albums as well as became her first number one on the Billboard 200 selling 180,000 copies in its first week. On the Top Country Albums chart, Lambert became the first artist to debut at number one on that chart with five consecutive albums. The album was met with widespread critical acclaim and earned her the Grammy Award for Best Country Album as well as a CMA Award and ACM Award in the same category. The album was certified platinum by the RIAA.
On November 18, 2016, Lambert released her seventh studio album titled The Weight of These Wings. It debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 and number one on Top Country albums chart selling 133,000 equivalent album units in its first week of release, becoming her sixth consecutive number one debut on the latter chart. She released her seventh studio album, Wildcard, on November 1, 2019. Wildcard became her seventh consecutive number-one album on the Top Country Albums chart, also reaching number four on the Billboard 200.




--- [Miranda Lambert’s ‘Wings’ Reaches Platinum Heights] ---
Miranda Lambert’s ‘Wings’ Reaches Platinum Heights Miranda Lambert’s latest album The Weight of These Wings has reached another peak, as it has just been certified Platinum by the RIAA. Released on Nov. 18, 2016, The Weight Of These Wings is Lambert’s sixth studio album and debuted at No.1 on the Billboard Country Albums Chart with 122,000 albums sold and No. 3 on the Billboard Top 200 all genre chart. The project included the hit single “Vice,” and was awarded the Album of the Year trophy at the Academy of Country Music Awards in April. The 24-song collection was produced by Frank Liddell, Glenn Worf, and Eric Masse and includes tracks penned by Gwen Sebastian, Natalie Hemby, Shane McAnally, Anderson East, Liz Rose, Nicolle Galyon, Ashley Monroe and more. - The Richlynn Group Promotes Three - March 4, 2026 - Michael Riggs Rises To SVP, Licensing & Income Tracking At Sony Music Publishing - March 4, 2026 - CMA Brings Mental Health Panel Discussion & Songwriters Series To SXSW - March 3, 2026
