=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Dolores Fonzi - Wikipedia]
In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, Dolores Fonzi made her first television appearance in the series La nena. In 1998, Cris Morena chose her to play Clara Vázquez in Verano del '98 with her brother, who played Benjamín Vázquez.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dolores_Fonzi

[Dolores Fonzi - actress, writer, director, producer, designer]
In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, Dolores Fonzi made her first television appearance in the series La nena. In 1998, Cris Morena chose her to play Clara Vázquez in Verano del '98 with her brother, who played Benjamín Vázquez.
URL: https://en.kinorium.com/name/216130/

[10 Facts About Dolores Fonzi - FactSnippet]
In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, Dolores Fonzi made her first television appearance in the series La nena. 5. Dolores Fonzi later acted in movies like Vidas privadas, Bottom of the Sea, The Aura, La mujer rota, Salamandra, El club de la muerte and El campo, for the latter she was nominated for the Silver Condor Awards for Best Actress. 6.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-dolores-fonzi.html

[Dolores Fonzi - Net Worth 2026, Age, Height, Bio, Birthday ...]
Jan 5, 2024 · In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, she made her first television appearance in the series La nena. In 1998, Cris Morena chose her to play Clara Vázquez in Verano del ’98 with her brother, who played Benjamín Vázquez.
URL: https://celebrity-birthdays.com/people/dolores-fonzi

[Dolores Fonzi - Wikiwand]
In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, Dolores Fonzi made her first television appearance in the series La nena. In 1998, Cris Morena chose her to play Clara Vázquez in Verano del '98 with her brother, who played Benjamín Vázquez.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/Dolores%20Fonzi


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Dolores Fonzi - Wikipedia] ---
Dolores María Fonzi (born 19 July 1978) is an Argentine television, theatre and film actress. Several of her films have received critical acclaim such as Burnt Money (2000), Waiting for the Messiah (2000), Bottom of the Sea (2003), The Aura (2005), and Paulina (2015). 
In 2023, she marked her directorial debut with the comedy-drama Blondi. Her second film, the legal drama Belén, is competing for the Golden Shell at the 73rd San Sebastian International Film Festival.


--- [Dolores Fonzi - actress, writer, director, producer, designer] ---
In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, Dolores Fonzi made her first television appearance in the series La nena. In 1998, Cris Morena chose her to play Clara Vázquez in Verano del '98 with her brother, who played Benjamín Vázquez. Thanks to this successful series and her character as a villain, she gained great popularity and success. At the end of 1999 she left Verano del '98 to be part of the cast of Marcelo Piñeyro's film Burnt Money, thereby landing her film debut with a role as a sex worker. She also appeared in Waiting for the Messiah. In 2001, she had great recognition by integrating the cast of El sodero de mi vida in Canal 13, where she played a girl with a mild intellectual disability. Experimenting with Luis Ortega the tape Caja negra is born, where she acted and participated in the integral creation. She later acted in movies like Private Lives, Bottom of the Sea, The Aura, La mujer rota, Salamandra, El club de la muerte and El campo, for the latter she was nominated for the Silver Condor Awards for Best Actress. In 2003 she starred in the unitary series Disputas and in the adaptation of the play of John Ford, Lástima que sea una puta. The following year she starred with Mariano Martínez the terror unit, Sangre fría by Telefe. During 2006, Fonzi starred and produced the miniseries Soy tu fan which in 2010 was adapted by Canana Films in Mexico. She also starred in the series El tiempo no para by Canal 9. From 2005 to 2008 she participated in three chapters of Mujeres asesinas. Her return to television was in 2012 with her participation in Graduados the new Underground production for Telefe. In addition, she was part of the unit of TV Pública En terapia with the actors Norma Aleandro, Diego Peretti, Leonardo Sbaraglia, Ailín Salas, Julieta Cardinali and Germán Palacios. She also resumed the theater as the protagonist of the play Isósceles. That year, she also made the filming of El Crítico by Hernán Guerschuny, a co-production between HC Films and Lagarto Cine where Dolores Fonzi had the lead alongside Rafael Spregelburd. On television she participated as a guest actress in two episodes of the series Aliados. In 2015 Fonzi starred in the film Paulina, remake of the film starring Mirtha Legrand, in 1960. The film had a strong box office collection and favorable reviews, being praised at the Cannes Festival. For her work in the film, Fonzi was awarded the Havana Star Prize for Best Actress at the 17th Havana Film Festival New York. She also acted in Truman film starring Ricardo Darín. In 2016 she was part of the cast of the series of La Leona, she played Eugenia Leone.


--- [10 Facts About Dolores Fonzi - FactSnippet] ---
Dolores Maria Fonzi was born on 19 July 1978 and is an Argentine television, theatre and film actress. 11 Facts About Dolores Fonzi Dolores Fonzi made her feature film directorial debut in 2023 with Blondi. Dolores Fonzi studied acting at the school of Carlos Gandolfo. Dolores Fonzi's brother Tomas Fonzi is an actor in Argentina. In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, Dolores Fonzi made her first television appearance in the series La nena. Dolores Fonzi later acted in movies like Private Lives, Bottom of the Sea, The Aura, La mujer rota, Salamandra, El club de la muerte and El campo, for the latter she was nominated for the Silver Condor Awards for Best Actress. Dolores Fonzi starred in the series El tiempo no para by Canal 9. Dolores Fonzi resumed the theater as the protagonist of the play Isosceles. That year, she made the filming of El Critico by Hernan Guerschuny, a co-production between HC Films and Lagarto Cine where Dolores Fonzi had the lead alongside Rafael Spregelburd. In 2015 Dolores Fonzi starred in the film Paulina, remake of the film starring Mirtha Legrand, in 1960. From 2008 to 2014, Dolores Fonzi was in a relationship with actor Gael Garcia Bernal, whom she met on the set of the 2001 film Private Lives.


--- [Dolores Fonzi - Net Worth 2026, Age, Height, Bio, Birthday ...] ---
Quick Facts | Full Name | Dolores Fonzi | | Occupation | Tv Actress | | Date Of Birth | Jul 19, 1978(1978-07-19) | | Age | 48 | | Birthplace | Buenos Aires | | Country | Argentina | | Horoscope | Cancer | Dolores Fonzi Biography | Name | Dolores Fonzi | | Birthday | Jul 19 | | Birth Year | 1978 | | Place Of Birth | Buenos Aires | | Birth Country | Argentina | | Birth Sign | Cancer | | Parents | María del Rosario Cárrega | | Siblings | Tomás Fonzi, Diego Fonzi | | Children(s) | Libertad García Fonzi, Lázaro Bernal | Dolores Fonzi is one of the most popular and richest TV Actress who was born on July 19, 1978 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Argentine television, film and stage actress. She is most well-known for her role in award-winning film The Plata Quemada, Esperando al Mesias and El Fondo of the Mar. She appeared alongside She starred alongside Esteban Lamothe in the 2015 feature film La Patota where she starred as the lead character. in the motion picture La Patota where she starred as the main character. In 1996, when she was seventeen years old, she made her first television appearance in the series La nena. In 1998, Cris Morena chose her to play Clara Vázquez in Verano del ’98 with her brother, who played Benjamín Vázquez. Thanks to this successful series and her character as a villain, she gained great popularity and success. At the end of 1999 she left Verano del ’98 to be part of the cast of the movie of Marcelo Piñeyro, Burnt Money and in Waiting for the Messiah. In 2001, she had great recognition by integrating the cast of El sodero de mi vida in Canal 13, where she played a girl with a slight mental retardation. Experimenting with Luis Ortega the tape Caja negra is born, where she acted and participated in the integral creation. She later acted in movies like Vidas privadas, Bottom of the Sea, The Aura, La mujer rota, Salamandra, El club de la muerte and El campo, for the latter she was nominated for the Silver Condor Awards for Best Actress. In 2003 she starred in the unitary Disputas and in the adaptation of the play of John Ford, Lástima que sea una puta. The following year she starred with Mariano Martínez the terror unit, Sangre fría by Telefe. During 2006, she starred and produced the miniseries Soy tu fan which in 2010 was adapted by Canana Films in Mexico. She also starred in the series El tiempo no para by Canal 9. From 2005 to 2008 she participated in three chapters of Mujeres asesinas. Her return to television was in 2012 with her participation in Graduados the new Underground production for Telefe. In addition, she was part of the unit of TV PúblicaEn terapia with the actors Norma Aleandro, Diego Peretti, Leonardo Sbaraglia, Ailín Salas, Julieta Cardinali and Germán Palacios. She also resumed the theater as the protagonist of the play Isósceles. That year, she also made the filming of El Crítico by Hernán Guerschuny, a co-production between HC Films and Lagarto Cine where Dolores Fonzi had the lead alongside Rafael Spregelburd. On television she participated as a guest actress in two episodes of the series Aliados. In 2015 he starred in the film Paulina, remake of the film starring Mirtha Legrand, in 1960. The film had a strong box office collection and favorable reviews, being praised at the Cannes Festival. She also acted in Truman film starring Ricardo Darín. In 2016 she was part of the cast of the series of La Leona, she play Eugenia Leone. In early 1998, she was the girlfriend of actor and singer Juan Ponce de León, a cast partner in Verano del ’98. The relationship lasted only one month. From 1998 to 2003 she was in a relationship with the Argentine film director Luis Ortega and from 2004 to 2005 she was in a relationship with the film producer Álvaro Sueiro. Dolores Fonzi started dating Gael García Bernal after they met on the set of the 2001 film directed by Fito Páez, Vidas Privadas. On Thursday 8 January 2009, their first son, Lázaro, was born in Madrid, Spain. Their daughter, Libertad, was born on 4 April 2011 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. At the beginning of August 2014, some rumors indicated that Gael García Bernal and Dolores Fonzi had ended their relationship, however it was not until the end of August when the actor’s mother, Patricia Bernal confirmed the end of their relationship of eight years. In 2015 rumors came to light that Fonzi would be in a relationship with the film director Santiago Mitre, who directed her in the film Paulina at the end of 2014. In early May 2015, the actress confirmed the relationship by posting a photo of both on her Instagram account. Their brother Her brother Tomas Fonzi is also an actor. She was married to Mexican actor Gael García Bernal from 2008 to 2014; they had two children together, Lázaro and Libertad. is also an actor. Her husband was Mexican actress Gael Garcia Bernal between 2008 and 2014 They had two kids in the same household, Lazaro and Libertad. Dolores Fonzi Net Worth | Net Worth | $5 Million | | Source Of Income | TV Actress | | House | Living in own house. | Dolores Fonzi is one of the richest Tv Actress from Argentina. According to our analysis, Wikipedia, Forbes & Business Insider, Dolores Fonzi 's net worth $5 Million. (Last Update: December 11, 2023) Her acting career began in 1996 when she appeared as the characters Sol in the television series La Nena. Following a variety of other TV roles she made her feature movie debut with Plata Quemada. She has been recognized with numerous awards for her performances as an actor, including the title of Best Actress in the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences of Argentina in 2015 for her performance on the movie La Patota. Dolores María Fonzi (born 19 July 1978) is an Argentine TV, theatre and film actress. Several of her films have received critical acclaim such as Burnt Money, Waiting for the Messiah, Bottom of the Sea and The Aura. Her brother Tomás Fonzi is also an actor in Argentina. Height, Weight & Body Measurements | Height | 5 ft 4 in | Dolores Fonzi height 5 ft 4 in Dolores weight Not Known & body measurements will update soon. Who is Dolores Fonzi Dating? According to our records, Dolores Fonzi is possibily single & has not been previously engaged. As of December 1, 2023, Dolores Fonzi’s is not dating anyone. Relationships Record : We have no records of past relationships for Dolores Fonzi. You may help us to build the dating records for Dolores Fonzi! Facts & Trivia Dolores Ranked on the list of most popular TV Actress. Also ranked in the elit list of famous people born in Argentina. Dolores Fonzi celebrates birthday on July 19 of every year.


--- [Dolores Fonzi - Wikiwand] ---
No content
