=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[PopeFrancis- Wikipedia]
PopeFrancis[b] (born Jorge Mario Bergoglio;[c] 17 December 1936 – 21 April 2025)washeadoftheCatholic Church and sovereign of Vatican City from 13 March 2013 until his death in 2025. Hewasthe first Jesuitpope, the first Latin American, and the first born or raised outside Europe...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pope_Francis

[Why Did Pope Francis Never Return to Argentina? - The New York Times]
Apr 23, 2025·Cardinal Bergoglio left Argentina in 2013 for the conclave that chose him to succeed Benedict XVI. He never returned, in contrast to his two ...Missing:declineappointedConference?
URL: https://www.nytimes.com/2025/04/22/world/americas/pope-francis-argentina.html

[Why Pope Francis never went home again - by Edgar Beltrán - The Pillar]
May 16, 2023·As Archbishop of Buenos Aires and president of the Argentine episcopal conference between 2005 and 2011, Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio was the ...
URL: https://www.pillarcatholic.com/p/why-pope-francis-never-went-home

[Biography - Pope Francis in Malta]
In 2002, in the spirit of poverty, he declined to be appointed President of the Argentine Bishops' Conference, but three years later he was elected and then ...
URL: https://popefrancis.mt/pope-francis/

[How Pope Francis' early life in Argentina explains his time ... - CNN]
Apr 22, 2025·He was made a cardinal in 2001 and served as president of the Argentine bishops' conference from 2005 until 2011. Bergoglio the priest and ...Missing:appointed| Show results with:appointed
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/22/americas/vatican-pope-francis-argentina-history-intl-latam


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [PopeFrancis- Wikipedia] ---
Pope Francis (born Jorge Mario Bergoglio; 17 December 1936 – 21 April 2025) was head of the Catholic Church and sovereign of Vatican City from 13 March 2013 until his death in 2025. He was the first Jesuit pope, the first Latin American, and the first born or raised outside Europe since the 8th-century Syrian pope Gregory III.
Born and raised in Buenos Aires, Argentina, to a family of Italian origin, Bergoglio was inspired to join the Jesuits in 1958 after recovering from a severe illness. He was ordained a Catholic priest in 1969, and from 1973 to 1979 he was the Jesuit provincial superior in Argentina. He became the archbishop of Buenos Aires in 1998 and was created a cardinal in 2001 by Pope John Paul II. Following the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI, the 2013 papal conclave elected Bergoglio as pope on 13 March. He chose Francis as his papal name in honor of Saint Francis of Assisi.
Throughout his papacy, Francis was noted for his humility, emphasis on God's mercy, international visibility, commitment to interreligious dialogue, and concern for the poor, migrants, and refugees. He made women and laymen full members of dicasteries in the Roman Curia.  He believed the Catholic Church should demonstrate more inclusivity to LGBTQ people, and stated that although blessings of same-sex unions are not permitted, individuals in same-sex relationships can be blessed as long as the blessing is not given in a liturgical context. He also convened the Synod on Synodality, which was described as the culmination of his papacy and the most important event in the Catholic Church since the Second Vatican Council. He was well known for having a less formal approach to the papacy than his predecessors by, for instance, choosing to reside in the Domus Sanctae Marthae guesthouse rather than in the papal apartments of the Apostolic Palace used by previous popes. In addition, due to both his Jesuit and Ignatian aesthetic, he was known for favoring simpler vestments devoid of ornamentation, including refusing the traditional papal mozzetta cape upon his election, choosing silver instead of gold for his piscatory ring, and keeping the same iron pectoral cross he had as cardinal.
Concerning global governance, Francis was a critic of trickle-down economics, consumerism, and overdevelopment; he made action on climate change a leading focus of his papacy. He viewed capital punishment as inadmissible in all cases, and committed the Catholic Church to its worldwide abolition. Francis criticized the rise of right-wing populism and anti-immigration politics, calling the protection of migrants a "duty of civilization", and called for the decriminalization of homosexuality. In international diplomacy, he also helped to restore diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States, negotiated a deal with China to define Communist Party influence in appointing Chinese bishops, and encouraged peace between Israel and Palestinians, signing the Vatican's first treaty with Palestine, as well from 2023, condemning Israel's military operations in Gaza and calling for investigations of war crimes. In 2022, he apologized for the Church's role in the Canadian Indian residential school system. Francis made his last public appearance on Easter Sunday before dying on 21 April 2025, Easter Monday. The 2025 conclave elected Leo XIV as Francis's successor on 8 May, becoming the second pope from the Americas, after Francis.




--- [Why Did Pope Francis Never Return to Argentina? - The New York Times] ---
Supported by Why Did Francis Never Return Home to Argentina as Pope? Francis never gave an explicit answer for not returning as pontiff to his native country, but some experts say he worried about having his presence used for political purposes. As Argentines bid farewell to Pope Francis, the grief of the faithful has been deepened by a lingering sorrow, a question that has hung in the Buenos Aires air: Why did their native son never return home? “I have to be honest, I didn’t like that he never came to Argentina,” Laura Aguirre, 50, a bakery cashier, said after attending a Mass honoring the first Latin American pontiff hours after his death. Outside the Basílica de San José de Flores, just blocks from Francis’s childhood home in Buenos Aires, and the church where he said he first felt the calling to the priesthood, many speculated that avoiding politics was why Argentina was not among the 68 countries he visited during his 12-year papacy, even though every president and local Catholic leaders extended invitations. “He didn’t want any president to wrap themselves in his cloak, to say ‘I’m the one who brought the pope,’” said Sebastián Morales, 37. Francis certainly had a tense relationship with Argentine presidents during his papacy. As archbishop of Buenos Aires, he clashed with former President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner over the legalization of same-sex marriage, though the two reconciled when he became pope. He also disapproved of some right-leaning policies of another former president, Mauricio Macri. And, in 2020, he vehemently opposed the legalization of abortion pushed through Congress by President Alberto Fernández. Related Content Advertisement


--- [Why Pope Francis never went home again - by Edgar Beltrán - The Pillar] ---
Why Pope Francis never went home again Pope Francis might go to Argentina in 2024. Here’s why it’s taken so long. Before Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio boarded a flight from Buenos Aires to Rome in February 2013, he told the rector of his cathedral: “Nos vemos a la vuelta” — “see you around the corner.” “Nos vemos a la vuelta” is a particularly Argentine way of saying, “see you soon” — not quite “goodbye;” much closer, perhaps, to “See you later, alligator.” It seemed the …


--- [Biography - Pope Francis in Malta] ---
Pope Francis was born Jorge Mario Bergoglio in Buenos Aires on 17 December 1936, the son of Italian migrants. His father was employed by the railways and his mother was a committed wife dedicated to raising their five children. He graduated as a chemical technician, then chose the path of the priesthood. In 1958 he entered the novitiate of the Society of Jesus. He completed his studies in the humanities in Chile and returned to Argentina in 1963 to graduate with a degree in philosophy. From 1964 to 1966 he taught literature and psychology at two different colleges. On 13 December 1969, he was ordained a priest. In 1973 he made his final profession with the Jesuits. During the same year, he was appointed Provincial of the Jesuits in Argentina, an office he held for six years. He then resumed his work in the university sector and from 1980 to 1986 served once again as Rector of the Colegio de San José, as well as parish priest, in San Miguel. After finishing his doctoral thesis in Germany, his superiors sent him back to Buenos Aires where he served as spiritual director in Cordoba for 18 years. On 28 February 1998, he became Archbishop of Argentina. Three years later, John Paul II created him cardinal. He asked the faithful not to come to Rome to celebrate his creation as cardinal but rather to donate to the poor what they would have spent on the journey. In 2002, in the spirit of poverty, he declined to be appointed President of the Argentine Bishops’ Conference, but three years later he was elected and then, in 2008, was reconfirmed for a further three-year mandate. Meanwhile, in April 2005, he took part in the Conclave in which Pope Benedict XVI was elected. As Archbishop of Buenos Aires he conceived a missionary project based on communion and evangelisation. He had four main goals: open and fraternal communities, an informed laity playing a leading role, evangelisation efforts addressed to every inhabitant of the city, and assistance to the poor and the sick. He aimed to re-evangelise Buenos Aires and asked priests and lay people to work together. In 2009, he launched the solidarity campaign for the bicentenary of the country’s independence, which saw 200 charitable agencies set up by 2016. He was elected Supreme Pontiff on 13 March 2013.


--- [How Pope Francis' early life in Argentina explains his time ... - CNN] ---
On March 13, 2013, Oscar Crespo was watching TV in his native Buenos Aires when he saw the white smoke appearing above the Sistine Chapel at the Vatican: a new pope was elected. As with millions of Catholics in Latin America, he was curious to know who would succeed Pope Benedict XVI. To his surprise he heard the name Bergoglio – the surname of his childhood friend – and was immediately overwhelmed by emotion, he recalled. “Bergoglio, Pope! I couldn’t believe it! And right at that moment, my phone started ringing,” Crespo told CNN from Buenos Aires, explaining how he was deluged by callers who knew of their friendship. Shortly after, Crespo watched as Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio appeared at the St. Peter’s Basilica balcony, becoming the first Latin American pope. His election took Crespo and all of Argentina by surprise, while the rest of the world wondered who Jorge Bergoglio was. In the following months, the local government even organized a special tour, “the papal circuit,” so tourists and pilgrims could get a glimpse of Bergoglio’s early years in his native Buenos Aires. Soccer with friends Jorge Bergoglio was born in Argentina’s capital, Buenos Aires, on December 17, 1936. The son of Italian immigrants, Mario and Regina, he was the eldest of five siblings. He spent his childhood and teenage years at his family’s house in the heart of the middle-class neighborhood of Flores. A plaque outside his former home, 531 Membrillar Street, now proudly announces: “Pope Francis lived here.” Like many South American kids, Bergoglio played soccer with friends around his neighborhood. A plaque on the ground at the Herminia Brumana square in Flores says: “In this plaza neighborhood children used to gather. Here, Jorge M. Bergoglio chased the ball with his friends. Afternoons of games and friendship.” Young Bergoglio became a big soccer fan, supporting the Argentine team San Lorenzo. His love of the sport and of his team never diminished as pope, with Francis often seen holding San Lorenzo’s jersey, and hosting soccer teams at the Vatican. “He loved music, dancing, and football. We went to watch so many football games,” Crespo said. He and Bergoglio became friends when they were 13 years old, a bond that endured when the latter became Pope Francis, even though he was never to return to his homeland. Bergoglio grew up learning about literature and chemistry, among other subjects, and enjoyed everything typical of a teenage boy, Crespo says. When he was 12, the Argentine even had a girlfriend who, decades later, was chased by the press after his election to the papacy. Amalia Damonte told reporters in 2013 that the new pope had sent her a letter when they were both children. “He said to me, ‘If I don’t marry you, I’ll become a priest,” she recalled. Years passed and Bergoglio indeed opted for priesthood. His deep spirit of service made him choose the Church, according to Crespo. Bergoglio entered the Jesuit religious order as a novice in 1958, was ordained in 1969 and became the sole archbishop of his native Buenos Aires in 1998. He was made a cardinal in 2001 and served as president of the Argentine bishops’ conference from 2005 until 2011. Bergoglio the priest and archbishop As a Jesuit living under a vow of poverty, Bergoglio led a humble and austere life, forgoing even the slightest of luxuries. His rejection of the trappings of status once he became archbishop gave the world a hint of how his papacy would unfold years later. He declined to live in the archbishop’s palace, choosing instead to live in a simple apartment. He also refused to use a chauffeured limousine, preferring to take the bus with ordinary people, and cooked his own meals. “He never had a car, that was the reality. I used to travel with him on public transport. And when I bought a car, I used to give him a ride,” Crespo said. The journeys with Archbishop Bergoglio included visits to the “villas” – shanty towns outside the capital – where he became a familiar face. “He went to the villas to see who he could help. He (had) told me clearly: Look, I am going to be a priest because my aim is to be at the service of the people. For that, I’m going to the villas, I am going to go to the heart of the country,” Crespo recalled. The austerity and simplicity of his life, along with a deep need to be close to the poor and marginalized, defined him as a priest and as a future pope, explained Argentine journalist Elisabetta Piqué, author of “Pope Francis: Life and Revolution.” “He was considered a moderate archbishop… He was known as an archbishop that used to go to the villas and (who) used to have a very, very simple life,” Piqué told CNN. Piqué met Bergoglio for the first time in 2001 for an interview in Rome, an encounter which sparked a friendship that lasted for decades. At that time, she described him as a shy man who surprised her. “He was really an open-minded priest with whom you could talk about everything,” Piqué said. A day after Cardinal Bergoglio became Pope Francis, on March 14, 2013, he called Piqué and asked her about the reaction in his native Argentina. The new pope mentioned he had been to pray at the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome, where he would years later request to be buried, and then went in person to pay his lodging bill at the Paulus VI hotel at which he stayed during the conclave – a gesture that surprised everyone. Later that month, Francis’s decision not to live in the papal apartment on the top floor of the Apostolic Palace but in the Casa Santa Marta, the Vatican City residence where cardinals stay during the conclave, was unexpected and considered a revolutionary act by the new pope, Piqué explained. As archbishop in Buenos Aires, Bergoglio would celebrate Mass in a prison or a hospital or hospice, trying to reach the marginalized and open the church up to everyone, a tradition that continued during his papacy and became part of his legacy. “His legacy is about an inclusive church, a church that is for all, not only for a small group of perfect people. This is a pope who speaks to everyone and who speaks specially to the sinners … We have seen him going to prisons all over the world. We have seen him on Holy Thursdays going to prisons and washing the feet of the prisoners,” Piqué said. Emilce Cuda, an Argentine theologist who worked closely with Francis as secretary of the Pontifical Commission for Latin America, described him as a strategist who used humor to navigate the Vatican as pope. “Any person who arrived to meet him was absolutely nervous but, in two or three minutes, Pope Francis could change the situation,” Cuda told CNN, explaining how he had the knack of finding the right word to spark humor and make people feel better. That gift could be traced back to his early years. Bergoglio’s sense of humor had been a key part of his character since he was very young, and was an essential part of him, according to his sister Maria Elena. She told CNN en Espanol in 2013: “(He has a) great sense of humor, I think he got that from my father. When he had to be firm for something, he was, but with good humor.” Crespo said that despite Bergoglio’s obvious talents, it had never occurred to his contemporaries that he would come to lead the Roman Catholic Church. “I never imagined a classmate would become a pope. We would have thought that due to his intelligence he would become a minister, a position in public office, even president, but that he was going to be pope? It didn’t occur to any of us,” Crespo said. He was a pope who never forgot his beginnings at the end of the world and always reached out to those on the peripheries, Piqué reflected. He stayed true to his friends too. “One day in June 2013 the telephone rang, and a familiar voice said: ‘Hello Oscar, it is Jorge Mario,’ and I said, ‘The pope is calling me!’ Despite our friendship, I was still very surprised the pope called me,” Crespo said.
