=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[D.P. Celebrity Theater opens at Dollywood - Official Dolly Parton]
May 5, 1988 · Dolly’s D.P. Celebrity Theater openes to guests at her theme park, Dollywood Dolly opened her theme park’s front gates to welcome some of country music’s best at her new Dolly Parton’s Celebrity Theater. The theater hosted the new ‘Showcase of Stars’ concert series. This state-of-the-art, 1,739-seat theater debuted with a display featuring Dolly’s friends and fellow musicians ...
URL: https://dollyparton.com/family_destinations/dollywood/celebrity-theater-opens

[Dollywood - Wikipedia]
Dollywood is a theme park that is jointly owned by Herschend and country singer-songwriter Dolly Parton through her entertainment company, Dolly Parton Productions. It is located in the Knoxville metropolitan area in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, near the gateway to The Great Smoky Mountains. Hosting nearly 3 million guests in a typical season from mid-March to the Christmas holidays, Dollywood is ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dollywood

[Full History Of Dollywood In Timeline From 1961 - Popular Timelines]
1988: Celebrity Theater Constructed In 1988, the 1,739-seat Celebrity Theater, featuring the "Showcase of Stars" celebrity concert series, was constructed. Five new children's rides were added to the Fun Country area, including a Zamperla Balloon Race. Also, the Dollywood Foundation was established.
URL: https://populartimelines.com/timeline/Dollywood/full

[DP's Celebrity Theatre, Pigeon Forge | Things to Know | Cityseeker]
"Entertainment Assured" Located within the Pigeon Forge's famed theme park, Dollywood, this grand theater is a meeting place for phenomenal actors, talented musicians and art enthusiasts who have a rich taste. DP's Celebrity Theatre is a 1,739 seater event space that features classic plays which are enhanced by mesmerizing musical scores. Attending a play at this venue is a surely a treat for ...
URL: https://cityseeker.com/pigeon-forge-tn/632933-dp-s-celebrity-theatre

[The History of Dollywood - Pigeon Forge Chamber of Commerce]
Nov 14, 2025 · Celebrating 40 Years of America’s Favorite Theme Park in 2025 On a crisp March morning in 2025, as sunlight turns the Great Smoky Mountains gold, it’s easy to understand why […]
URL: https://pigeonforgechamber.com/history-of-dollywood/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [D.P. Celebrity Theater opens at Dollywood - Official Dolly Parton] ---
Dolly’s D.P. Celebrity Theater openes to guests at her theme park, Dollywood Dolly opened her theme park’s front gates to welcome some of country music’s best at her new Dolly Parton’s Celebrity Theater. The theater hosted the new ‘Showcase of Stars’ concert series. This state-of-the-art, 1,739-seat theater debuted with a display featuring Dolly’s friends and fellow musicians. The concert series delighted guests of Dollywood. 'Showcase of Stars' featuring performances by the biggest names in country music, all from Dolly’s home in East Tennessee!


--- [Dollywood - Wikipedia] ---
Dollywood is a theme park that is jointly owned by Herschend and country singer-songwriter Dolly Parton through her entertainment company, Dolly Parton Productions. It is located in the Knoxville metropolitan area in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, near the gateway to The Great Smoky Mountains. Hosting nearly 3 million guests in a typical season from mid-March to the Christmas holidays, Dollywood is the biggest ticketed tourist attraction in Tennessee. It has won several international awards.
In addition to standard amusement park thrill rides, Dollywood features traditional crafts, food, and music of the Smoky Mountain area. The park hosts a number of concerts and musical events each year, including appearances by Dolly Parton and her family as well as other national and local musical acts. 
The theme park is the anchor of Parton's 150-acre (61 ha) Dollywood amusement destination, which also includes the 35-acre (14 ha) sister water park Dollywood's Splash Country, the 20-acre (8.1 ha) Dollywood's DreamMore Resort and Spa, and the 5-acre (2.0 ha) Dolly Parton's Stampede Dinner Attraction.


--- [Full History Of Dollywood In Timeline From 1961 - Popular Timelines] ---
Dollywood is a theme park co-owned by Herschend and Dolly Parton, through Dolly Parton Productions. Situated in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, near the Great Smoky Mountains, it attracts nearly 3 million visitors annually, making it Tennessee's largest ticketed tourist destination. The park operates from mid-March through the Christmas holidays and has garnered multiple international awards for its attractions and guest experience. On June 10, 1961, the park initially opened as "Rebel Railroad", a tourist attraction owned by the Robbins brothers. It featured a steam train, general store, blacksmith shop, and saloon, themed around the Civil War. The train ride included staged attacks by Union soldiers, train robbers, and Native Americans, defended by Confederates. On May 24, 1964, the Knoxville News Sentinel announced that the park would be renamed "Goldrush Junction" for the 1964 season. Along with the name change, the park adopted a Wild West theme similar to Tweetsie Railroad. In 1970, Art Modell, also owner of the Cleveland Browns football team, purchased Goldrush Junction. The park maintained the railroad and introduced an outdoor theater along with the Robert F. Thomas Chapel. In 1975, the park's name was changed to "Goldrush". In April of 1976, Jack and Pete Herschend, owners of Silver Dollar City, acquired Goldrush. The park continued operations as Goldrush throughout the 1976 season. In 1977, the Herschends rebranded Goldrush as "Silver Dollar City Tennessee", aligning it as a sister park to their original Silver Dollar City. They invested approximately $1 million in park upgrades. Also in 1977, the train ride was enhanced with two new steam locomotives, the #70 and #71, as well as engine #72 for spare parts, sourced from the White Pass & Yukon Route Railroad. On May 3, 1986, Silver Dollar City Tennessee reopened as Dollywood. The new Rivertown Junction area featured Smoky Mountain River Rampage, Back Porch Theater, Aunt Granny's Dixie Fixins' Restaurant, and Dolly's Tennessee Mountain Home. "Rags to Riches: The Dolly Parton Story" museum was also new. Attendance doubled. By 1986, Dollywood employed approximately 4,000 individuals, establishing itself as the largest employer in the community. In 1986, Dolly Parton acquired an interest in Silver Dollar City, and the park was renamed "Dollywood" for the 1986 season. In 1987, the Daydream Ridge area opened featuring the Mountain Slidewinder water toboggan ride, Mountain Dan's Burger House, Sweet Dreams Candy Shop, The Rainbow Factory blown glass shop, and Critter Creek Playground. Engine #70 was also restored to operation. In 1988, the 1,739-seat Celebrity Theater, featuring the "Showcase of Stars" celebrity concert series, was constructed. Five new children's rides were added to the Fun Country area, including a Zamperla Balloon Race. Also, the Dollywood Foundation was established. In 1989, Thunder Express, a steel mine train coaster, was built. 1989 marked the final season for the National Mountain Music Festival. In 1990, a 1924 antique Dentzel Carousel was relocated to the park. The 600-seat Gaslight Theater also opened. The Smoky Mountain Christmas Festival premiered in November. In 1991, Eagle Mountain Sanctuary and the Wings of America Theater were added, along with the 300-seat Valley Theater. In 1992, the Showstreet area was added, featuring the Showstreet Palace Theater, The Butterfly Emporium, The Backstage Restaurant, The Spotlight Bakery, Friendship Gardens, and WDLY-FM. The park's main entrance moved to Showstreet. Dollywood's annual attendance topped 2 million for the first time. In 1993, the Fun Country area was renovated to become The Country Fair with three new rides: The Wonder Wheel, Twist and Shout, and Tennessee Twister. Also new was "Sunset Musicfest". In 1994, the Gaslight Theater was renamed Heartsong Theater, featuring a multi-media musical about Dolly Parton's life. In 1995, the Jukebox Junction area was added, featuring Rockin' Roadway, The Pines Theater, Red's Diner, and Cas Walker's Music Store. In 1996, the Dollywood Boulevard area was added, featuring Thunder Road, Silver Screen Café, and Centerstage gift shop. In 1997, the "U Pick Nick" children's show, focused on themes from the Nickelodeon television network, was played in Celebrity Theater. The Flooded Mine dark-ride was closed and demolished in October, and Silver Screen Cafe became DJ Platters in the Dollywood Boulevard area. In 1998, Daredevil Falls opened in the area formerly occupied by the Flooded Mine. Thunder Express was closed in September and sold to Magic Springs Theme Park. The antique carousel was removed at the end of the season and replaced with a new carousel. In 1999, the Tennessee Tornado, a steel looping coaster, opened. The Southern Gospel Museum and Hall of Fame also opened, and the Balloon Race ride was removed. In 2000, the Daydream Ridge area was renovated and became Dreamland Forest, a children's mountain-themed interactive play area. In April 2001, the Festival of Nations international music festival premiered. Dolly's Splash Country also opened. In 2002, Dollywood Boulevard was renovated and became Adventures in Imagination. Smoky Mountain Wilderness Adventure replaced Thunder Road, and the Chasing Rainbows Dolly museum opened. In 2003, the KidsFest summer children's festival premiered, and Imagination Station was converted into Celebration Hall. It was the final season for the "Showcase of Stars" celebrity concert series. In 2004, the Thunderhead Gap area opened with the Thunderhead wooden roller coaster. Country Fair Falls was demolished in November. In 2005, several new rides were added to Country Fair, including Dizzy Disk, Amazing Flying Elephants, Lemon Twist, Shooting Star, Sky Rider, VeggieTales Sideshow Spin, Waltzing Swinger, Piggy Parade, Busy Bees, and Lucky Ducky. The National Southern Gospel & Harvest Celebration also began. In 2006, the Timber Tower ride, Lil' Loggers Landing, Beaver Creek, Beaver Creek Boat Float, and Lumberjack Lifts opened. The Barbeque & Bluegrass festival also premiered. In 2007, Mystery Mine, a Gerstlauer Eurofighter coaster, was added, featuring vertical lifts and dark ride elements. In 2008, River Battle, an interactive water raft ride, was built in the new Wilderness Pass area. "Thunder Road" returned to the motion theater and replaced Smoky Mountain Wilderness Adventure. The Polar Express 4-D Experience was shown during Smoky Mountain Christmas. In 2009, Dollywood presented two new shows, "Imaginé" by Le Grand Cirque and "Sha-Kon-O-Hey! Land of Blue Smoke". In 2009, an upcharge zipline attraction called SkyZip opened. In 2008, the film 'Journey to the Center of the Earth: 4-D Adventure', based on the 2008 film, was presented. In 2009, Dollywood presented two new shows, "Imaginé" by Le Grand Cirque and "Sha-Kon-O-Hey! Land of Blue Smoke", which featured music written by Dolly Parton. "Thunder Road" was renamed "White Lightning" and then changed to a new attraction, Journey to the Center of the Earth: 4-D Adventure. An upcharge zipline attraction called SkyZip also opened at Dollywood. On November 16, 2010, Dollywood received the Liseberg Applause Award, a prestigious honor in the industry, which Dolly Parton accepted at the IAAPA Attractions Expo 2010 in Orlando. In 2010, Adventure Mountain opened, including three adventure courses: Geyser Gorge, Black Bear Cliff, and Rocky Top. Also in 2010, Dollywood brought back "Sha-Kon-O-Hey! Land of Blue Smoke" and changed its logo for the 25th anniversary. In 2010, Dolly Parton explained that she became involved with Dollywood to create jobs and opportunities in her home region. In 2010, Dolly Parton stated she would like to open more Dollywood parks in the future. She also said, "We definitely want to expand with new things every year, eventually with a resort," and "We may eventually have Dollywoods in other parts of the country, where we can kind of be true to whatever's going on in that part of the world." In 2011, Owens Farm replaced Dreamland Forest, featuring a giant swing called Barnstormer. On March 24, 2012, Wild Eagle opened as the first Bolliger & Mabillard Wing Coaster in the United States, marking a significant investment for Dollywood. On August 21, 2013, Dolly Parton announced Dollywood's DreamMore Resort and Spa, which opened on July 27, 2015. In 2013, Dollywood dedicated the year to encouraging families to spend time together. New shows such as Cirque Shanghai, Mystic India, and One World Party were introduced as part of Festival of Nations, along with more than 50 new international food items. The park also introduced "Great American Summer", replacing KidsFest, featuring the Great American Country Show, Gazillion Bubbles, The Little Engine Playhouse, and Salute to America. Dollywood extended its hours, added a nightly fireworks show, and presented Dolly Parton's version of A Christmas Carol during Smoky Mountain Christmas. Imagination Cinema became Dreamsong Theater and played Dolly's My People, a show about Dolly's family. The slogan for the year was "Make Time for Happy!". In 2014, FireChaser Express, a dual-launch family coaster, replaced Adventure Mountain in the Wilderness Pass area. Dollywood's slogan was changed to "Love Every Moment", and Smoky Mountain Christmas added a Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer meet-and-greet called Holly Jolly Junction. On July 27, 2015, Dollywood's DreamMore Resort and Spa officially opened. In 2015, Dollywood's DreamMore Resort and Spa opened adjacent to Dollywood's Splash Country. To celebrate the park's 30th anniversary, the entrance was redesigned for resort guests, and two new shows, "Rhythm of the Dance" and "Timber", were added to Festival of Nations. Cas Walker's was demolished for a new attraction, and six new shows were added to "Great American Summer", along with the revival of the Showcase of Stars concert series. Also new was Rock the Smokies, a Christian music festival, and Rudolph and friends returned to the Smoky Mountain Christmas festival. On June 13, 2016, Lightning Rod, a Rocky Mountain Construction wooden coaster, opened as the world's first launched wooden coaster and the fastest wooden coaster in the world. In October 2017, work began on "Wildwood Grove", adding eleven new experiences to the park, including Dragonflier, Till & Harvest, Hidden Hollow, Wildwood Creek, The Great Tree Swing, and The Wildwood Tree. In 2017, Dollywood won Golden Ticket awards from Amusement Today for Friendliest Park, Best Christmas Event, Best Food and Best Show. In 2017, a 200-foot freefall ride called Drop Line, which replaced Timber Tower, opened along with a junior roller coaster called Whistle Punk Chaser. Two new seasonal events debuted, and Dollywood's Splash Country added the TailSpin Racer mat racer slide complex. Sideshow Spin and River Battle were removed. In 2018, Dollywood received a Golden Ticket award from Amusement Today in the Best Food category, marking the park's fourth win in seven years. The park also received Golden Tickets for Best Shows, Friendliest Park, and Best Christmas Event and was ranked the third best park in the world. In 2018, the former River Battle site was transformed into the Plaza at Wilderness Pass, a new open space with covered seating. The 2018 "Season of Showstoppers" marked the park's largest investment in entertainment in Dollywood's history, debuting with the Spring Mix three-week music series. The 2018 Festival of Nations included Flamenco Kings starring Los Vivancos, National Dance Company of Siberia, and Ladysmith Black Mambazo. The first Summer Celebration event included DRUMLine Live!, using technology to enhance various music types. Renovations included upgrades to Aunt Granny's and re-branding and renaming of two shops. In 2019, Dollywood won Golden Ticket awards for Best Kids' Area, Best Guest Experience, and Best Christmas Event of 2018. In the 2018 USA Today 10Best Readers' Choice Awards, Dollywood was ranked as the sixth Best Amusement Park in the U.S. Additionally, Dollywood's DreamMore Resort and Spa was ranked first in the Best Amusement Park Hotel category, and Aunt Granny's Restaurant was ranked first in the Best Amusement Park Restaurant category. On May 10, 2019, Wildwood Grove, a $37 million 5-acre development described as "a land built from Dolly Parton's dreams", opened featuring eleven new experiences. It was part of a $300 million 6-year expansion project. In October 2019, Dollywood filed plans for a new resort adjacent to Splash Country and DreamMore Resort. The plans included a 310-room hotel, a 325-seat restaurant, and a conference space, expected to create 100 jobs. In October 2019, it was announced that the park would add its first new festival in 14 years. Dollywood's Flower & Food Festival will feature 10 to 15 feet tall topiaries based on Dolly's songs like "Coat of Many Colors", photo opportunities, a rainbow sky over Showstreet, and food. In 2019, Coaster101.com named Lightning Rod "Wooden Roller Coaster of the Decade". In 2019, Dollywood closed the SkyZip attraction after settling a lawsuit and taking over its operations. In 2019, Dollywood won Golden Ticket awards for Best Kids' Area, Best Guest Experience, and Best Christmas Event of 2018. In 2019, Wildwood Grove opened, featuring attractions including Dragonflier, a suspended family coaster; Big Bear Mountain, a family launched coaster; The Mad Mockingbird, a flying scooter ride; The Wildwood Tree, and Till & Harvest Food Hall. June 14, 2020 was the original planned end date for the Flower and Food Festival, however it was deferred to May 7 to June 13, 2021 due to outside circumstances. June 13, 2021 was the ending date for the postponed Flower and Food Festival. In June 2021, Dollywood announced plans for a $500 million expansion, including more details about the planned hotel complex announced in 2019. The new resort, named HeartSong Lodge & Resort, will have 302 rooms, five floors of suites, a four-story atrium, and multiple shopping and culinary experiences. In 2021, Dollywood's Smoky Mountain Christmas won the Golden Ticket Award for Best Christmas Event for the 13th straight year. On August 5, 2022, it was announced that a new roller coaster named Big Bear Mountain was under construction and scheduled to open on May 12, 2023. It is also the longest in the park's history. During the 2022 off-season, Dollywood removed the Silver Dollar Mine tunnel to create a more open space, renovated the parking complex to improve efficiency, added parking toll booths, renovated Iron Horse Pizza, and gave The Emporium a complete makeover. Additionally, two buildings, the former Eagle Shop and the former Christmas Cottage, were removed to widen walkways. In June of 2022, Tripadvisor named Dollywood the number one theme park in the U.S. In 2023, Big Bear Mountain, a launching steel family roller coaster, was added. In 2023, HeartSong Lodge is scheduled to open, along with campgrounds, three additional resorts, and a "record-breaking" attraction for the theme park. In 2007, Mystery Mine costed $17 million, this equates to $25.8 million in 2024 dollars. Dolly Parton is a highly acclaimed American singer songwriter actress... India officially the Republic of India is a South Asian... Christmas is an annual festival celebrated on December th commemorating... Pennsylvania is a U S state located in the Mid-Atlantic... News encompasses information about current events disseminated through various media... Fireworks are pyrotechnic devices primarily utilized for entertainment and aesthetic... 15 minutes ago Rumors Swirl: Rams Eye Trade for Chiefs' Star Trent McDuffie 15 minutes ago Lucy Boynton Joins 'A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms' Season 2 Cast 15 minutes ago Rachin Ravindra Shines as New Zealand Achieves Noteworthy Cricket Victory in Semi-Final. 16 minutes ago Apple unveils iPhone 17e, a cheaper model boosting sales with AT&T offer. 2 days ago Elisabeth Hasselbeck Returns to 'The View', Receives 'Armor of God' Gift 16 minutes ago Harry Maguire Receives Suspended Sentence After Retrial Over 2020 Mykonos Incident. Ken Paxton is an American politician and lawyer serving as... Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton is a prominent American politician lawyer... Jesse Jackson is an American civil rights activist politician and... Jim Carrey is a Canadian-American actor and comedian celebrated for... Bill Clinton served as the nd U S President from... XXXTentacion born Jahseh Dwayne Ricardo Onfroy was a controversial yet...


--- [DP's Celebrity Theatre, Pigeon Forge | Things to Know | Cityseeker] ---
No content


--- [The History of Dollywood - Pigeon Forge Chamber of Commerce] ---
No content
