=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Cohen Buys Picasso’s ‘Le Reve’ From Wynn for $155 Million]
Mar 26, 2013 · The price is the highest paid by a U.S. collector for an artwork, art dealers told Bloomberg. Wynn had previously agreed to sell the painting to Cohen for $139 million in 2006.
URL: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2013-03-26/cohen-buys-picasso-from-wynn-for-155-million-post-says

[Why are Picasso's paintings always the most expensive in the ...]
Nov 17, 2024 · The painting “Le Rêve” (The Dream – 1932) was sold on March 26, 2013, for $155 million (equivalent to 3.444 trillion Dong). This work once set the record for the highest price paid for a Picasso painting.
URL: https://scimyst.com/why-picasso-paintings-are-always-the-most-expensive-in-the-world-65335/

[Hedge Fund Billionaire Steve Cohen's $155M Picasso ... - Forbes]
Mar 26, 2013 · Cohen paid $8 million for the 22-ton piece in 2006. With Picasso’s “Le Reve,” Cohen will add a piece that he’s been pursuing for years, and will deliver a windfall to Steve Wynn.
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/afontevecchia/2013/03/26/hedge-fund-billionaire-steve-cohens-155m-picasso-isnt-his-first-multi-million-piece-of-art/

[Pablo Picasso Paintings & Artwork for Sale | Pablo Picasso ...]
Explore Pablo Picasso's past auction results and sold artwork prices. Research and compare historical data while shopping upcoming Pablo Picasso's sales on Invaluable.com.
URL: https://www.invaluable.com/artist/picasso-pablo-nvddduiinb/sold-at-auction-prices/

[Pablo Picasso Auctions Results | Artnet]
Find auction results by Pablo Picasso. Browse through recent auction results or all past auction results on artnet.
URL: https://www.artnet.com/artists/pablo-picasso/past-auction-results


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Cohen Buys Picasso’s ‘Le Reve’ From Wynn for $155 Million] ---
Pursuits Cohen Buys Picasso’s ‘Le Reve’ From Wynn for $155 Million This article is for subscribers only. Steven Cohen, owner of SAC Capital Advisors LP, has bought Pablo Picasso’s “Le Reve” for $155 million from casino owner Steve Wynn, a person familiar with the transaction said. The price is the highest paid by a U.S. collector for an artwork, art dealers told Bloomberg.


--- [Why are Picasso's paintings always the most expensive in the ...] ---
Many of Picasso’s paintings have set price records in the art world. Currently, his works still hold the record for the “highest-priced painting in auction history,” valued at nearly 4 trillion Vietnamese Dong. Why are Picasso’s paintings so expensive? Imagine the horrified feeling of casino owner Steve Wynn in Las Vegas when, nine years ago, he accidentally elbowed Picasso’s “Le Rêve” (The Dream), causing a tear in the canvas. The most painful part for Steve was that this incident occurred just as he was preparing to sell the painting for $139 million. Picasso The painting is part of a series depicting the sensual portrait of Picasso’s young lover, Marie-Thérèse Walter, painted in 1932 when they were deeply in love. Picasso’s works are always among the most sought-after artworks. Over time, Picasso’s paintings have continuously broken price records. The painting “Le Rêve” itself once set the record for the highest price paid for a Picasso artwork. This valuable treasure of hundreds of millions collapsed in an instant due to an accidental “destructive” bump to such a fragile piece of art. Immediately after the news of “Le Rêve” being damaged spread, the buyer halted their purchase plans. In 2013, after art experts meticulously restored the painting to a degree that made the tear nearly invisible to the naked eye, the buyer resumed the purchase process. This time, due to an incident that added intrigue to the stories surrounding the painting, the price of “Le Rêve” soared to $155 million. Overall, the reasons behind the climbing prices of artworks often seem quite “random.” Those unacquainted with art and business may always find it crazy when a piece of art carries such a “sky-high” price. In fact, these prices are increasingly reaching levels that are “unimaginable.” However, this apparent absurdity is entirely rational because any business today carries significant risks, and the world economy is not experiencing a golden age of prosperity. Thus, the market for trading artworks has become increasingly vibrant. Valuable paintings never go “unsold.” When it comes to selling precious artworks, there are always many buyers eager to purchase. A significant art transfer deal always amounts to tens or hundreds of millions of dollars, rivaling any business transaction, while the risks are considerably lower. Now, millionaires and billionaires from emerging economies are also entering the art business, driving prices even higher. Art trading has now become a trendy, prestigious category among the ultra-rich. Owning a coveted masterpiece is “hitting multiple targets with one arrow.” In the art world, few artists have a significant impact on global pop culture. Even fewer artists are well-known to those who are not familiar with art. Picasso is one such rare artist. Naturally, his works will always be the most expensive. For a long time, millionaires and billionaires have been competing to showcase their status through supercars, yachts, and mansions. Collecting “high-value” art has now become a “new sport” characterized by competition and profit. Over the past 25 years, the market for trading artworks has been continuously expanding. In 1990, the total value of artworks offered on the market was approximately $27.2 billion. By 2007, this figure had risen to $65.8 billion, marking the golden age of painting sales. Later, collectors became more cautious, and in 2012, this figure stood at $56 billion. Picasso’s works have always contributed to these billion-dollar figures. During his lifetime, Picasso created around 50,000 works, including nearly 2,000 paintings, over 1,200 sculptures, nearly 3,000 ceramic pieces, 12,000 drawings, and thousands of prints from engravings. Each of Picasso’s works that enters the market is valued at millions to hundreds of millions of dollars. Today, as art collecting is no longer simply for artistic appreciation; as the collector community includes some of the wealthiest millionaires and billionaires in the world, owning a valuable artwork is like possessing a first-class ticket to confidently enter the realm of collecting, which features many significant figures from the global economy. Even within the collector community, there is a clear polarization, with only a small group of ultra-rich individuals dominating the art market, driving the prices of renowned artists’ works to “unimaginable” levels. Meanwhile, medium and small collectors will never be able to participate in the bidding wars surrounding major works. Below are some of Picasso’s most expensive paintings, some of which have set price records in the art market: The painting “Buste de femme/Femme à la résille” (Woman’s Bust/Woman in a Hairnet – 1938) was sold on May 11, 2015, for $67.4 million (nearly 1.5 trillion Dong). The painting “Femme assise dans un jardin” (Woman Sitting in a Garden – 1938) was sold on November 10, 1999, for $49.5 million (equivalent to $70.1 million in today’s terms, about 1.56 trillion Dong). The painting “Femme aux Bras Croisés” (Woman with Crossed Arms – 1902) was sold on November 8, 2000, for $55 million (equivalent to $75.3 million in today’s terms, about 1.673 trillion Dong). The painting “Acrobate et jeune arlequin” (Acrobat and Young Harlequin – 1905) was sold on November 28, 1988, for $38.5 million (equivalent to $76.9 million in today’s terms, about 1.71 trillion Dong). The painting “Au Lapin Agile” (At the Lapin Agile – 1904) was sold on November 27, 1989, for $40.7 million (equivalent to $77.4 million in today’s terms, about 1.72 trillion Dong). The self-portrait “Yo Picasso” (1901) was sold on May 9, 1989, for $47.8 million (equivalent to $91 million in today’s terms, about 2.022 trillion Dong). The painting “Les Noces de Pierrette” (Pierrette’s Wedding – 1905) was sold on November 30, 1989, for $49.3 million (equivalent to $93.8 million in today’s terms, about 2.084 trillion Dong). The painting “Dora Maar au Chat” (Dora Maar and Cat – 1941) was sold on May 3, 2006, for $95.2 million (about 2.115 trillion Dong). The painting “Nu au Plateau de Sculpteur” (Nude, Green Leaves and Bust – 1932) was sold on May 4, 2010, for $106.5 million (equivalent to 2.366 trillion Dong). At this time, the painting set the record for the highest price paid for a painting at auction. The painting “Garçon à la Pipe” (Boy with a Pipe – 1905) was sold on May 4, 2004, for $104.2 million (equivalent to $130.1 million in today’s terms, about 2.890 trillion Dong). This work once set the record for the highest price paid for a painting at auction. The painting “Le Rêve” (The Dream – 1932) was sold on March 26, 2013, for $155 million (equivalent to 3.444 trillion Dong). This work once set the record for the highest price paid for a Picasso painting. The painting “Les Femmes d’Alger” (Women of Algiers – 1955) was sold on May 11, 2015, for $179.4 million (equivalent to 3.986 trillion Dong). This work currently holds the record for the highest price paid for a painting at auction.


--- [Hedge Fund Billionaire Steve Cohen's $155M Picasso ... - Forbes] ---
Billionaire Steve Cohen is definitely one of Wall Street’s most intriguing characters. On Tuesday, less than two weeks after his hedge fund, SAC Capital, settled insider trading charges with the SEC for more than $600 million, news broke of his latest acquisition: a $155 million painting by Pablo Picasso titled “Le Reve” from fellow billionaire Steve Wynn, who infamously put his elbow through the piece back in 2006 as Cohen was about to buy it from him. Cohen’s newest Picasso will join an impressive collection that by some estimates is worth about $1 billion and includes the major names in impressionism, post-War, and contemporary art. If he was trying to lay low after his fund settled the largest insider trading case ever with the SEC on March 15, then Steve Cohen probably wasn’t too happy when the New York Post uncovered his reportedly “top-secret” purchase. The tabloid, citing “a source,” reported Cohen’s purchase of the 1932 Picasso masterpiece on Tuesday, dubbing it most expensive artwork ever purchased by a U.S. collector. Given it was a private sale, the actual purchase price may never surface. Cohen is a big spender when it comes to art, to the point where dealers at last year’s Art Basel Miami complained about his absence to the New York Times; two years ago, the hedge fund billionaire reportedly spent $480,000 in less than an hour on works by up-and-coming artists Adel Abdessemed and Tim Hawkinson. That’s a drop in the bucket for a guy like Cohen, who’s worth $9.3 billion by Forbes’ latest count. According to the Times, the hedge fund manager bought Willem de Kooning’s “Woman III” (1952) from music and movie billionaire David Geffen for $137.5 million in 2006, year in which he had planned to spend $139 million on the Picasso he bought on Tuesday before Steve Wynn ripped a six-inch tear into it. In 2010, Cohen bought Jasper Johns’ “Flag” (1958) for about $110 million, while in 2007 he spent $80 million on Andy Warhol’s 1964 “Turquoise Marilyn.” The founder and head of SAC Capital has been trying to fly below the radar as the Securities and Exchange Commission increased its scrutiny of his hedge fund’s trading tactics. Regulators have charged former SAC employees, including Mathew Martoma and Jon Horvath, but have never brought any charges against Cohen. Without admitting any wrongdoing, his fund paid the feds approximately $614 million to settle for the largest amount ever in an insider trading case. While billionaire was trying to keep this purchase in the down low, at least according to the Post, his love of art is a well known and has been covered extensively. Spokesmen for Cohen haven’t confirmed the value of his collection to Forbes, but reports put the it around $1 billion. In an extensive interview with Vanity Fair from 2010, the hedgie’s art adviser Sandy Heller revealed Cohen had bought more than 300 pieces since he began collecting in 2000. Among the works the reporter mentioned in the story were Jeff Koons’ “Balloon Dog” (which is indeed a giant statue of a balloon dog), Vincent van Gogh’s “Peasant Girl in a Straw Hat” (1890), Francis Bacon’s “Screaming Pope” and, Gerhard Richter’s “256 Farben (Colors).” Among Steve Cohen’s most recognizable possessions is Damien Hirst’s famous shark. Titled “The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living,” the piece features a 14-foot tiger shark pumped with 224 gallons of formaldehyde in order to preserve its body. Cohen paid $8 million for the 22-ton piece in 2006. With Picasso’s “Le Reve,” Cohen will add a piece that he’s been pursuing for years, and will deliver a windfall to Steve Wynn. The casino mogul apparently put his elbow through the piece in 2006 as he was showing it off to friends; he had already agreed to sell it to Cohen. Wynn didn’t force the hedgie to buy it, but rather fixed it himself. He reportedly got $45 million in insurance for breaking it, which, added to the final price tag (which was $16 million above the original price agreed with Cohen), means he made more than 43% ripping a six-inch tear into a Picasso. Not bad.


--- [Pablo Picasso Paintings & Artwork for Sale | Pablo Picasso ...] ---
Get Invaluable on Your Phone Download the app via text link to get instantly notified if you’re outbid and receive auction reminders so you never miss out! - Ascension Island - Andorra - United Arab Emirates - Afghanistan - Antigua and Barbuda - Anguilla - Albania - Armenia - Angola - Argentina - American Samoa - Austria - Australia - Aruba - Åland Islands - Azerbaijan - Bosnia and Herzegovina - Barbados - Bangladesh - Belgium - Burkina Faso - Bulgaria - Bahrain - Burundi - Benin - Saint Barthélemy - Bermuda - Brunei Darussalam - Bolivia - Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba - Brazil - Bahamas - Bhutan - Botswana - Belarus - Belize - Canada - Cocos (Keeling) Islands - Congo, Democratic Republic of the - Central African Republic - Congo - Switzerland - Cote d'Ivoire - Cook Islands - Chile - Cameroon - China - Colombia - Costa Rica - Cuba - Cape Verde - Curaçao - Christmas Island - Cyprus - Czech Republic - Germany - Djibouti - Denmark - Dominica - Dominican Republic - Algeria - Ecuador - Estonia - Egypt - Western Sahara - Eritrea - Spain - Ethiopia - Finland - Fiji - Falkland Islands - Federated States of Micronesia - Faroe Islands - France - Gabon - United Kingdom - Grenada - Georgia - French Guiana - Guernsey - Ghana - Gibraltar - Greenland - Gambia - Guinea - Guadeloupe - Equatorial Guinea - Greece - Guatemala - Guam - Guinea-Bissau - Guyana - Hong Kong - Honduras - Croatia - Haiti - Hungary - Indonesia - Ireland - Israel - Isle of Man - India - British Indian Ocean Territory - Iraq - Iran - Iceland - Italy - Jersey - Jamaica - Jordan - Japan - Kenya - Kyrgyzstan - Cambodia - Kiribati - Comoros - Saint Kitts and Nevis - North Korea - South Korea - Kuwait - Cayman Islands - Kazakhstan - Laos - Lebanon - Saint Lucia - Liechtenstein - Sri Lanka - Liberia - Lesotho - Lithuania - Luxembourg - Latvia - Libya - Morocco - Monaco - Moldova - Montenegro - Saint Martin (French Part) - Madagascar - Marshall Islands - North Macedonia - Mali - Myanmar - Mongolia - Macao - Northern Mariana Islands - Martinique - Mauritania - Montserrat - Malta - Mauritius - Maldives - Malawi - Mexico - Malaysia - Mozambique - Namibia - New Caledonia - Niger - Norfolk Island - Nigeria - Nicaragua - Netherlands - Norway - Nepal - Nauru - Niue - New Zealand - Oman - Panama - Peru - French Polynesia - Papua New Guinea - Philippines - Pakistan - Poland - Saint Pierre and Miquelon - Puerto Rico - Palestine - Portugal - Palau - Paraguay - Qatar - Reunion - Romania - Serbia - Russia - Rwanda - Saudi Arabia - Solomon Islands - Seychelles - Sudan - Sweden - Singapore - Saint Helena - Slovenia - Svalbard and Jan Mayen - Slovakia - Sierra Leone - San Marino - Senegal - Somalia - Suriname - South Sudan - Sao Tome and Principe - El Salvador - Sint Maarten - Syria - Swaziland - Tristan da Cunha - Turks and Caicos Islands - Chad - Togo - Thailand - Tajikistan - Tokelau - Timor-Leste - Turkmenistan - Tunisia - Tonga - Turkey - Trinidad and Tobago - Tuvalu - Taiwan - Tanzania - Ukraine - Uganda - United States - Uruguay - Uzbekistan - Holy See (Vatican City State) - Saint Vincent and the Grenadines - Venezuela - Virgin Islands, British - Virgin Islands, U.S. - Vietnam - Vanuatu - Wallis and Futuna - Samoa - Kosovo - Yemen - Mayotte - South Africa - Zambia - Zimbabwe Bid On-the-Go! Download the Invaluable app and never miss an auction from your iOS or Android device.


--- [Pablo Picasso Auctions Results | Artnet] ---
66 captures 09 Feb 2011 - 17 Oct 2025 Sep OCT Nov 17 2024 2025 2026 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20251017021816/https://www.artnet.com/artists/pablo-picasso/past-auction-results Request unsuccessful. Incapsula incident ID: 170000560320326508-512672653948620350
