=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana]
May 9, 2019 · The exploration well Akoma - 1X is located approximately 50 kilometers off the coast and about 12 km north-west from Sankofa hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters.
URL: https://www.eni.com/en-IT/media/press-release/2019/05/eni-announces-akoma-discovery-in-ctp-block-4-offshore-ghana.html

[Ghana's Akoma-1X is a Hit - Petroleum AfricaPetroleum Africa]
May 13, 2019 · The Akoma – 1X exploration well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. It is located northwest of the Sankofa hub where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO sits.
URL: https://www.petroleumafrica.com/ghanas-akoma-1x-is-a-hit/

[Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana]
May 9, 2019 · The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 12,434.4 ft (3,790 m).
URL: https://worldoil.com/news/2019/5/9/eni-announces-akoma-discovery-in-ctp-block-4-offshore-ghana

[New Discovery for Eni in Ghana]
May 13, 2019 — The exploration well Akoma – 1X is located approximately 50 ... depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. Akoma ...
URL: https://www.offshore-energy.biz/new-discovery-for-eni-in-ghana/

[Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana]
May 9, 2019 · The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 12,434.4 ft (3,790 m). Akoma – 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 65.62 ft (20 m) thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to.
URL: https://www.foresightglobaloilandgas.com/2019/05/09/eni-announces-akoma-discovery-in-ctp-block-4-offshore-ghana/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana] ---
Media Relations - +39 02 52031875 - +39 06 59822030 Or , our new artificial intelligence tool. San Donato Milanese (Milan), 9 May 2019 – Eni announces a gas and condensate discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, proved an estimated volume between 550 and 650 bcf of gas and 18-20 mmbbl of condensate. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that will require further drilling to be confirmed. The exploration well Akoma - 1X is located approximately 50 kilometers off the coast and about 12 km north-west from Sankofa hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. Akoma - 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma - 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. The Joint Venture of CTP-Block 4 is formed by Eni Ghana (operator, 42.469%), Vitol Upstream Tano (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields Upstream (9,556%), Explorco (4,00%). Ghana is among the key Countries for Eni’s organic growth. The company has been present in the Country since 2009 and accounts currently a gross production of about 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. +39 02 52031875 - +39 06 59822030 Freephone for shareholders (from Italy): 800940924 Freephone for shareholders (from abroad): + 80011223456 +39 0252051651 If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. If you want to change topic, clear the chat and make a new query to receive more relevant results. This will delete the question history. Here you can find the full list of your queries. The answers are generated by artificial intelligence, therefore they may contain inaccuracies. Please read the terms and conditions of use. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. EnergIA can also perform a search on a specific topic, providing the most up-to-date data available, or it can invite you to delve deeper into a topic of your interest by suggesting links and specific readings. Start now! EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions. Start now! EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use. Search EnergIA (ener'dʒia) is a system based on Generative Artificial Intelligence. Thanks to this technology, we can respond to your requests by querying the most relevant content and documents available on eni.com. (Note: financial documents from the last 12 months and press releases from the last 2 years are considered.) Through EnergIA, you can delve into topics of interest and have a real-time window into the world of Eni. If you wish to search for a specific document, press release or news, use the traditional search engine via the magnifying glass icon. Like all systems that leverage Generative Artificial Intelligence, EnergIA may generate inaccurate or outdated responses. Always consult the sources that EnergIA proposes as the origin of the generated information. If the system fails to find an exact match for the requested content, it still tends to provide a response. If you find any inaccuracies in the provided response, please send us your feedback at the bottom of the page: it will be very helpful for us to improve. Remember that the content generated by the system does not represent Eni’s official position. We therefore invite stakeholders to refer to their designated contacts for official statements: Press Office for journalists, Investor Relations for analysts and investors, Company Secretariat for shareholders etc.. EnergIA can understand questions posed in almost all languages, but we prefer to provide you with a response in English or Italian, the two languages available on eni.com. If you ask a question in Italian, the content on the site in Italian will be consulted. If you ask it in English or any other language, the content in English will be consulted. (Note: the language Eni uses for financial documents/content is predominantly English.) If questions are formulated that violate the set security criteria, the system will not proceed with processing the response. Please remember not to send personal data. By using this service, the users acknowledge that they have read and accepted the terms and conditions of use. A new window into Eni’s world, at your disposal. EnergIA is an innovative tool based on artificial intelligence capabilities, which can help you navigate the contents of eni.com, quickly finding answers to your questions.


--- [Ghana's Akoma-1X is a Hit - Petroleum AfricaPetroleum Africa] ---
Monday, May 13, 2019 ENI’s drilling offshore Ghana on CTP-Block 4 resulted in a gas and condensate discovery. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, revealed an estimated volume between 550 and 650 Bcf of gas and 18-20 million barrels of condensate. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that will require further drilling to be confirmed. The Akoma – 1X exploration well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 3790 meters. It is located northwest of the Sankofa hub where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO sits. Akoma – 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 20 m thick sandstone reservoir interval of Cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma – 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. ENI’s partners on the CTP-Block 4 are Vitol Upstream, GNPC, Woodfields Upstream, and Explorco.


--- [Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana] ---
Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana SAN DONATO MILANESE -- Eni announces a gas and condensate discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, proved an estimated volume between 550 and 650 Bcf of gas and 18-20 mmbbl of condensate. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that will require further drilling to be confirmed. The exploration well Akoma - 1X is located approximately 31.07 mi (50 km) off the coast and about 7.46 mi (12 km) north-west from Sankofa hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 12,434.4 ft (3,790 m). Akoma - 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 65.62 ft (20 m) thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma - 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. The Joint Venture of CTP-Block 4 is formed by Eni Ghana (operator, 42.469%), Vitol Upstream Tano (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields Upstream (9,556%), Explorco (4,00%). Ghana is among the key Countries for Eni’s organic growth. The company has been present in the Country since 2009 and accounts currently a gross production of about 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.


--- [New Discovery for Eni in Ghana] ---
No content


--- [Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana] ---
Eni announces Akoma discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana From WorldOil.com SAN DONATO MILANESE — Eni announces a gas and condensate discovery in CTP-Block 4, offshore Ghana. The well, drilled on the Akoma exploration prospect, proved an estimated volume between 550 and 650 Bcf of gas and 18-20 mmbbl of condensate. The discovery has further additional upside for gas and oil that will require further drilling to be confirmed. The exploration well Akoma – 1X is located approximately 31.07 mi (50 km) off the coast and about 7.46 mi (12 km) north-west from Sankofa hub, where the John Agyekum Kufuor FPSO is located. The well was drilled by the Maersk Voyager drilling ship in a water depth of 350 meters and reached a total depth of 12,434.4 ft (3,790 m). Akoma – 1X proved a single gas and condensate column in a 65.62 ft (20 m) thick sandstone reservoir interval of cenomanian age with good petrophysical properties and with hydrocarbon down to. Akoma – 1X is the first well drilled in CTP-Block 4 and represents a discovery of a potentially commercial nature, due to its close distance to the existing infrastructures. The discovery can be put in production with a subsea tie to the FPSO with the aim to extend its production plateau. The Joint Venture of CTP-Block 4 is formed by Eni Ghana (operator, 42.469%), Vitol Upstream Tano (33.975%), GNPC (10%), Woodfields Upstream (9,556%), Explorco (4,00%). Ghana is among the key Countries for Eni’s organic growth. The company has been present in the Country since 2009 and accounts currently a gross production of about 60,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
