=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[David Sweet - Wikipedia]
David Sweet ... David Sweet (born June 24, 1957) is a former Canadian politician who served as a Member of Parliament (MP) from 2006 to 2021.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Sweet

[David Sweet - Wikiwand]
For other people named David Sweet, see David Sweet (disambiguation). David Sweet (born June 24, 1957) is a former Canadian politician who served as a Member of Parliament (MP) from 2006 to 2021.
URL: https://www.wikiwand.com/en/articles/David_Sweet

[32 Facts About David Sweet - FactSnippet]
On January 23,2006, David Sweet won the right to represent Ancaster-Dundas-Flamborough-Westdale in the 39th Parliament, beating incumbent Russ Powers, whom David Sweet had lost to in the previous election.
URL: https://www.factsnippet.com/site/facts-about-david-sweet.html

[The Commons: In a state of "suspended animation"]
... birthday to their colleague, David Sweet. His birthday had actually just passed—he was born on June 24, 1957—so the gesture was a bit belated. But perhaps ...
URL: https://macleans.ca/politics/ottawa/the-commons-the-second-night-of-a-long-day/

[David Sweet Explained]
Jan 23, 2006 · David Sweet (born June 24, 1957) is a former Canadian politician who served as a Member of Parliament (MP) from 2006 to 2021. He represented the riding of Ancaster—Dundas—Flamborough—Westdale from 2006 to 2015 and, following the 2012 federal electoral district redistribution, he represented the riding of Flamborough—Glanbrook from 2015 ...
URL: https://everything.explained.today/David_Sweet/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [David Sweet - Wikipedia] ---
David Sweet (born June 24, 1957) is a former Canadian politician who served as a Member of Parliament (MP) from 2006 to 2021. He represented the riding of Ancaster—Dundas—Flamborough—Westdale from 2006 to 2015 and, following the 2012 federal electoral district redistribution, he represented the riding of Flamborough—Glanbrook from 2015 to 2021. A member of the Conservative Party, he served as the Shadow Minister for International Rights and Religious Freedom from 2019 to 2020. Throughout his tenure, Sweet served as chair and vice chair for a number of committees. During the 42nd Canadian Parliament, he served as the chair of the Conservative Party's parliamentary national caucus.


--- [David Sweet - Wikiwand] ---
English Sign in Top Qs Timeline Chat Perspective All Articles Dictionary Quotes Map Remove ads Loading article...


--- [32 Facts About David Sweet - FactSnippet] ---
David Sweet was born on June 24,1957 and is a former Canadian politician who served as a Member of Parliament from 2006 to 2021. 32 Facts About David Sweet David Sweet was born and raised in Kingston, Ontario to Gordon, a former sergeant of the Canadian Armed Forces and television repairman, and Jean David Sweet, where he was raised alongside five siblings. At the age of thirteen, David Sweet ran away from home and lived on the street for several months, eventually being caught and sent to St Joseph's Training School in Alfred, Ontario. At St Joseph's, one of the province-run training schools for "incorrigible" youth, David Sweet endured physical beatings by the Catholic brothers who ran the school, and was regularly bullied and beaten by other boys, beatings which were ignored by the guards. David Sweet attempted to run away from the reformatory, but was caught and put in solitary confinement for ten days. At one point, David Sweet was made to scrub walls with bleach using his bare hands for three hours as punishment. David Sweet remained at the institution until he was 16 years old. David Sweet's business offered training services to a variety of corporate, public, and not-for-profit clients. In 1996, David Sweet was the founding President of the Canadian Association of Professional Speakers, an organization that provides training opportunities for and promotes professional speakers. On January 23,2006, David Sweet won the right to represent Ancaster-Dundas-Flamborough-Westdale in the 39th Parliament, beating incumbent Russ Powers, whom David Sweet had lost to in the previous election. On June 22,2006, David Sweet obtained the unanimous consent of the House of Commons for a motion awarding honorary Canadian citizenship to the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet, Tenzin Gyatso. At the beginning of the third session, David Sweet was named Chair of the Industry, Science and Technology Committee in addition to his roles from the second session, which he maintained as well. On February 10,2011, David Sweet introduced a Private Member's Bill, Bill C-620, An Act to amend the Corrections and Conditional Release Act which was debated only once, on March 23,2011, before the 40th Parliament was dissolved for the 2011 General Election. On November 5,2015, David Sweet became the first elected Chair of the National Conservative Parliamentary Caucus, as prior to the 42nd Parliament the position was appointed by the party leader. David Sweet briefly served on the Standing Committee on Canadian Heritage during the study brought on by Motion 103. David Sweet was re-elected as the Member of Parliament for Flamborough-Glanbrook in the 2019 federal election, defeating Stebbing . On November 29,2019, David Sweet was named Shadow Minister for International Human Rights and Religious Freedoms by then-leader Andrew Scheer. On October 8,2020, David Sweet was elected Chair of the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy, and Ethics. In January 2021, David Sweet was discovered to have travelled to the United States during the COVID-19 pandemic, despite the border between Canada and the United States being closed to nonessential travel and public health advisories to avoid unnecessary travel. David Sweet received prior approval from Conservative Party leader Erin O'Toole for the trip, which was initially for a property issue but, according to David Sweet, for leisure. David Sweet resigned from his role on the ethics committee and announced he would not be seeking re-election. Mental health is an issue that David Sweet has repeatedly spoken about, particularly after the death of his daughter Lara in 2017. In 2019, David Sweet supported Private Members' Motion 174, which sought to introduce a National Strategy on Suicide Prevention. David Sweet committed to advocating for increased funding for mental health research and programs, as well as promoting policies like the National Strategy on Suicide Prevention. David Sweet has similarly held both the position of chair and Vice Chair of the Canada-Israel Interparliamentary Group. David Sweet is a vocal advocate for human rights and religious freedoms, having served on the House of Commons Subcommittee on International Human Rights since he was first elected in 2006. David Sweet served on the Steering Committee of the Canadian Parliamentary Committee to Combat Antisemitism Canadian Parliamentary Coalition to Combat Antisemitism and on the CPCCA's Inquiry Panel which released a public report on July 7,2011. In November 2012, David Sweet received the 2012 Humanitarian Award from the Hamilton Jewish Federation for his work on CPCCA and in speaking out against racism. David Sweet has a daughter, Theresa, from a previous marriage. On September 19,2017, David Sweet rose in the House of Commons to deliver a Member's statement in Lara's memory, crediting her with reshaping his "thinking on whether someone has to have it all together to assist others". David Sweet is a motorcycle enthusiast, speaking in the House of Commons on several occasions to promote road safety for motorcyclists. David Sweet participates in a number of charity motorcycle rides across Ontario, including Hamilton's Liberty for Youth Eagle Ride.


--- [The Commons: In a state of "suspended animation"] ---
The Commons: In a state of "suspended animation" Shortly after the clock passed midnight, a dozen Conservatives sang happy birthday to their colleague, David Sweet. His birthday had actually just passed—he was born on June 24, 1957—so the gesture was a bit belated. But perhaps owing to the pizza party the Prime Minister had apparently been hosting, the government side seemed a jovial bunch, eager to find fun wherever it could be found. As luck would have it, they had all been summoned to the House of Commons at this late hour for a vote—specifically on an NDP-authored motion to delay moving forward with Bill C-6 for another six months. The official filibustering of this particular piece of particularly contentious legislation had commenced some 27 hours earlier. What began on Thursday was now moving into Saturday. Except that, so far as the reality within these four walls is measured, with the House having not yet adjourned for the day, this was still Thursday. Indeed, there in the middle of the room sat the four-sided calendar, reminding all who could see it that here they remained trapped in June 23. With the Conservatives turned out almost entirely and with the half dozen Liberals who’d shown up going with the government, the motion was soundly defeated by a count of 160 to 74. The Conservatives duly mocked the New Democrats for not filling all their assigned seats. In fairness to the official opposition, in light of their demonstrations and protestations these last few days, laziness is not something of which they can easily be accused. The government side’s Tom Lukiwski stood then to beg the New Democrats to consider now relenting. He accused the New Democrats of attempting to "obfuscate and delay," a complaint that was met with a round of happy desk-thumping from the opposition. The country could not, he declared, afford any further delay. Alas, the NDP’s Chris Charlton seemed not the least bit persuaded as she proceeded to review why her side felt it necessary to keep everyone here. This was about the right to organize and free collective bargaining and the right to strike, she said. Not to mention, wages, working conditions and pensions. After some heckling and laughing, the Conservatives mostly lost interest, talking amongst themselves in small groups as Ms. Charlton went on. When the din became too loud, the Speaker called for order. As Ms. Charlton finished up, a half dozen Conservatives crowded around Ben Lobb’s laptop to watch something that was apparently quite amusing. When it came round to Liberal Kevin Lamoureux’s turn, he wondered, as Liberals had done repeatedly over the previous 27 hours, if the NDP might be ready to bring forward the amendments it wishes to make to the legislation in question. The Liberals are making a great show of trying to be the adults in the room, mostly without discernible result. And here, again, the New Democrats demurred. At approximately 12:43am, the Prime Minister rose from his seat, bowed towards the Speaker’s chair and crossed the aisle to sit beside Jack Layton. They proceeded to talk and gesture and smile and laugh. At one point, Mr. Layton reached over and touched Mr. Harper’s arm. They seemed in friendly discussion about something or other (a deal perhaps?). At approximately 12:48am, the Prime Minister reached over and touched Mr. Layton’s arm, then rose, bowed towards the Speaker’s chair and crossed back over to the government side. He and Mr. Layton then respectively exited the chamber. Sometime around one o’clock, the Speaker called on Eve Peclet, the 23-year-old former community activist and reality show contestant with a law degree. If memory serves, it was Ms. Peclet who was spotted skipping up the row to her seat on Parliament’s first day back this month. Here she lit up the air around her, enunciating each syllable in a thick accent and crying her concerns about democracy and labour and the hard-working mail carrier across the aisle. She yelled and stared down her hecklers and jabbed her desk quite loudly. Those remaining on the Conservative side stopped whatever they were doing to watch. Olivia Chow wandered in from the opposition lobby to stand and watch, looking positively delighted with what she saw. When Ms. Peclet finished, removing her glasses for her final words, her friends on the NDP side rose to applaud. She broke into a great grin and laughed and even clapped a little for herself. In response, Gary Goodyear stood to note that he’d received emails from postal workers who were not entirely supportive of their union. Members have, at regular intervals, paused throughout this debate to read from their inboxes. Oddly, the Conservatives seem only to receive messages supportive of the Conservative position, while the New Democrats only receive notes expressing support for the NDP position. Shortly thereafter, the NDP’s Randall Garrison began detailing the life story and political principles of J.S. Woodsworth. And then there was some debate over to what degree the present day’s economic situation could be compared to that of the 1920s and where precisely to draw the poverty line. "What this dispute is really about, what this legislation is about," the NDP’s Jinny Sims declared at one point, "is the kind of Canada we want." Indeed, in short order there was some discussion of the Canadian Wheat Board, the NDP government that oversaw the province of Ontario from 1990 to 1995, the Conservative government that oversaw the province of Ontario from 1995 to 2002, the E. coli breakout in Walkerton in May 2000 and, of course, the Gomery commission. (Although, in fairness, it should be noted that the discussion remained mostly, if repetitively, on point and New Democrats remained, despite the hour, ferociously engaged.) Conservative Colin Carrie stood and lamented for all of this. A fellow from the NDP helpfully advised that this could all be brought to a conclusion if the government would simply advise Canada Post to end its lockout of postal workers. And so we arrived back at precisely where we’d begun. It was here that Elizabeth May, seated in the far corner for all of this, stood and attempted a sort of summation. A half dozen spectators remained in the visitors gallery above her. The clock stood around 2am. She complimented all members on their sense of duty, even if she lamented for the regular outbreaks of partisanship. Everyone, she figured, wanted to see mail delivery resumed. One side thinks the best way to do that is to pass Bill C-6. The other side thinks the best way to do that is to fight Bill C-6. And so, she figured, perhaps the way forward was an amended Bill C-6. In response, of course, the Conservative Michael Chong stood to lament for the opposition side and the NDP’s Peter Julian stood to complain of the government side. And so we remained in, as Ms. May put it, a state of "suspended animation." Get the Best of Maclean’s straight to your inbox. Sign up for news, commentary, analysis and promotions. Join 80,000+ Canadian readers.


--- [David Sweet Explained] ---
No content
