=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Barcelona 2-1 Arsenal (May 17, 2006) Final Score - ESPN]
Game summary of the Barcelona vs. Arsenal Uefa Champions League game, final score 2-1, from May 17, 2006 on ESPN.
URL: https://www.espn.com/soccer/match/_/gameId/197123/arsenal-barcelona

[FC Barcelona - Arsenal FC, 17/05/2006 - UEFA Champions League - Match ...]
This is the match sheet of the UEFA Champions League game between FC Barcelona and Arsenal FC on 17/05/2006.
URL: https://www.transfermarkt.com/fc-barcelona_arsenal-fc/index/spielbericht/53463

[arsenal vs barcelona.]
Therefore, the ref shoul have counted Barca's goal and given Lehman a yellow for the foul. doc: --- Quote from: Bitter on May 18, 2006, 09:32:49 AM ---Not a ...
URL: https://www.socawarriors.net/forum/index.php?topic=15277.125%3Bwap

[2006 UEFA Champions League final - Wikipedia]
The 2006 UEFA Champions League final was an association football match between Barcelona of Spain and Arsenal of England at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, Paris, France, on Wednesday, 17 May 2006. It was the final match of the 2005-06 season of Europe's primary cup competition, the UEFA Champions League. Barcelona were appearing in their fifth final, having won the competition once in ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_UEFA_Champions_League_final

[Who ruined the Dream Final?]
People are saying a referee's decision ruined the dream final, that the referee could have done something different to not have Arsenal go down to ten...
URL: https://www.bigsoccer.com/threads/who-ruined-the-dream-final.354601/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Barcelona 2-1 Arsenal (May 17, 2006) Final Score - ESPN] ---
Barcelona v Arsenal 2005/06 UEFA Champions League, Final Samuel Eto'o - 76' Juliano Belletti - 80' Sol Campbell - 37' Jens Lehmann - 18' Match Formations Game Information Stade de France 2:45 PM, May 17, 2006 Saint-Denis, France - Referees: - T Hauge Match Timeline Match Commentary 93' Stay with Soccernet for match reports and all the post-game reaction and quotes. | 93' The Barcelona players celebrate in the centre-circle after adding the Champions League to their La Liga crown to cap a superb season. | 93' Arsenal are denied, but they can hold their heads high after holding on to the lead with ten men for much of the game, before tiredness told and the classy Catalans broke their resistence. |


--- [FC Barcelona - Arsenal FC, 17/05/2006 - UEFA Champions League - Match ...] ---
Timeline Line-Ups Starting Line-up: 4-3-3 Attacking 1 4 12 20 10 8 | 25 | Albert Jorquera | GK | | 16 | Sylvinho | LB | | 2 | Juliano Belletti | RB | | 3 | Thiago Motta | DM | | 6 | Xavi | CM | | 24 | Andrés Iniesta | CM | | 7 | Henrik Larsson | CF | | Manager: | Frank Rijkaard | Starting Line-up: 4-2-3-1 | 24 | Manuel Almunia | GK | | 20 | Philippe Senderos | CB | | 22 | Gaël Clichy | LB | | 16 | Mathieu Flamini | DM | | 9 | José Antonio Reyes | RW | | 10 | Dennis Bergkamp | SS | | 11 | Robin van Persie | CF | | Manager: | Arsène Wenger | Goals - 1:1Samuel Eto'o, Right-footed shot, 6. Tournament Goal Assist: Henrik Larsson, Pass, 1. Tournament Assist - 2:1Juliano Belletti, Right-footed shot, 1. Tournament Goal Assist: Henrik Larsson, Pass, 2. Tournament Assist


--- [arsenal vs barcelona.] ---
No content


--- [2006 UEFA Champions League final - Wikipedia] ---
The 2006 UEFA Champions League final was an association football match between Barcelona of Spain and Arsenal of England at the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, Paris, France, on Wednesday, 17 May 2006. It was the final match of the 2005–06 season of Europe's primary cup competition, the UEFA Champions League. Barcelona were appearing in their fifth final, having won the competition once in 1992, while it was Arsenal's first (and to date, only) final appearance and the first appearance by a club from London.
Each club progressed through the group stage and three knockout rounds to reach the final, playing 12 matches in total. Barcelona won their group and progressed to the final after beating Chelsea, Benfica and Milan, respectively. Arsenal won their group to move into the knockout stage, and progressed without conceding a goal against Real Madrid, Juventus and Villarreal, respectively.
A crowd of 79,500 watched as Jens Lehmann was sent off early in the game. Despite this setback, Arsenal took the lead through Sol Campbell towards the end of the first half. After an hour, Henrik Larsson came on for Barcelona and was involved in both of their goals. Barcelona equalised through Samuel Eto'o near the end of the second half, and a few minutes later, Juliano Belletti scored to give Barcelona a 2–1 victory.


--- [Who ruined the Dream Final?] ---
People are saying a referee's decision ruined the dream final, that the referee could have done something different to not have Arsenal go down to ten men in yesterday's Champions League final. Yes it would have been better if Lehman was in but it was a clear red. The real call should have been advantage > goal > red. The mistake was all Lehman's and he admitted it later. He ruined the "dream final" with a split second decision. Unfortuntately ESPN's anlysis spent so much time discussing the issuing of the red that they didn't show enough of what led to the red: a patented Ronaldinho through ball that sliced open the Arsenal defense and left Eto'o all alone. Lehman is experienced enough. Once committed, he should have conceded the goal, not fouled and stayed in the game. So, in this sense, a Ronaldinho pass also ruined the "dream final". And that's football. It's not always a "dream". It's not perfect. Unexpected things happen. And that's the way it should be... The sending off made it a bad final but I honestly think that if Arsenal had gone 1-0 even with 11 players they would have struggled even more. That is what Barca have done to teams throughout the entire season, score early and finnish them on the counter. Arsenal would have had to start commiting players forward and when players like Deco, Ronaldinho and Eto'o start runing at you on the counter then you are in trouble. The best example is the 2 Real Madrid games this season. Barca destroyed as at the Bernabeu scoring every one of their goals on the counter as we commited players forward. When we played at Camp Nou we went 1-0 but just defended and took our chances or chance I should say on the counter. Barcelona are the best side in Europe and just keeping the ball. They frustrate so many teams time after time and when the frustration builds they carve you open. Irrespective of the motto that "anything can happen in a cup final" I just knew Barca were going to win as soon as they scored their second. It's hard to say who ruined the game but if anything it has to be Lehmann. He commited the foul that according to the rule book constitutes as a straight red. The referee could have actually played advantage, let Barca score then send off Lehmann. Good analysis. Yes, you just have that sense with Barcelona that something will eventually happen. The mark of a great team. Real had that not long ago. Personally, I hate to say that anyone "ruined" the final. I am actually commenting on a term that others have been using. What interests me is who "effected" the final because really nothing outlandish happened in the game. And for me, it was Ronaldinho who changed the game. How he managed to get into possession of the ball in such a sweet spot of the midfield is a good question; another question is how Eto'o was able to lose his marker and receive that lovely through ball; and finally another question is why after charging off of his line and knowing that Eto'o was past him, Lehmann chose to take him down. That sequence changed the game. No one will know what would of happened 11 vs 11. For me, the advantage should of been played and the goal given and I believe that 9 times out of 10 the referee would give that decision. It did spoil it for me. The first 20 minutes were brilliant and it was shaping in to a decent final. If it was one nil to Barca, Arsenal would have pushed forward, with Barca hitting them on the break. Could of been as good as last years potentially. I strongly disagree. IMO, the match was even better with 11x10 Arsenal still were in the match, and even scored first! I thought even with one man down, the game was great They scored from a set piece though. When it was 11 against 11 Arsenal were the better team creating the superior chances. When one player goes off you have to change system and you start to play 10 men behind the ball. Not that I blame Arsenal cause Barca are a potent attacking force but it's not entertaining to watch. It wasn't until the second half were Arsenal created another chance, glorious it may have been, but it certainly goes along way to suggsting a one sided affair. I know it sounds crazy but hte sending off came to early for Arsenal. Seventy minutes versus Barca with ten men is a big ask. I thought it was a great final. And in the team playing the more beautiful soccer won! I think some of our posters have preconceived patterns for games to follow, and this one didn't. It was definitely a suspenseful game - wondering if Arsenal could hold their precarious lead. The 11v10 definitely changed Arsenal's approach, but so what. Waiting a couple of seconds more for Lehmann's foul might have been preferrable, but waiting to call such a foul can also cause problems. IMHO, the ref never expected to find the ball in the back of the net a few seconds after blowing the whistle. The call was absolutely correct given that he blew the whistle when he did, and Eto'o was definitely taken out of any opportunity to finish the play. In any high level game, players are going to get away with fouls and dives. Hopefully, in the end, they even out and good soccer determines the winner. In yesterday's game, that happened, and there was plenty of beautiful soccer along the way. I thought the Ref determined too much of the game - He should have let the play stand with the ball in the onion net - Instead he took a goal away from Barcelona - Then he started to make it up to Arsenal all the rest of the game by giving them every little niggling call and calling fouls the opposite way - His worst call of the night was NOT GIVING EBOUE a second Yellow Card on his flagrant dive - That set up Campbell's header on a set piece - He took away a goal from Barcelona and then gifted a goal to Arsenal - The second half was similar - So many times Arsenal defenders would tackle through the legs of Barcelona players but no calls - And then had the lack of sense to give a Yellow Card to a Barcelona defender who did something far less - Arsenal complaining that the ref favored Barcelona just shows their lack of class I'd say give the ref a break. He made the correct, even if not the best call, in a very tense situation. Although it was a penalty, he probably couldn't tell from his angle, as it was so close to being a foul outside the box (Lehmann grabbed Eto'o just barely on the line). At fault? Indeed Lehmann. He was quite respectful when interviewed after the match, saying that he thought they should have played on but understood the difficult decision that had to be made - didn't dispute that it should have been a red. A lot of refs would have pussied out and just given a yellow. Remember Gattuso should have been sent off for a foul on Gerrard in the last final? But didn't get a card. Ronaldinho and Eto'o caused the mess. They ruined it Too bad Ronalgenius didn't play well after that. And yeah it was looking to be a great match. But for 10v11, it was good. Actually thought Arsenal were in the advantage to get the sending off and no goal - and thought they had the match won by the 70th minute. But play stopped before they scored. The whistle blew before the ball was shot. Once he did that he can't go back and call it a goal. I don't know... Arsenal fans would say a goal v 11 men. And if that was how it went, they probably now would be saying "the ref should have given a red card and a free kick!" i thought that no one ruined it. the referee made the correct desicion to send off lehman , and not to give a goal as he had already blown his whistle. my only doubt was why he didnt give a penalty. arsenal did do well with 10 men and i believed they would hang on but larsson made a huge difference in the game Thierry Henry ruined it - If he had buried his first one on one opportunity, then Lehmann would have been more likely to have NOT fouled Eto as it would have been a tieing goal rather than a 'go ahead' goal. It's all Henry's fault !! Wait a minute, he tried, the real fault is Barca's goalkeeper for blocking Henry's shot, if he didn't block it then it would have gone in and changed Lehmann's decision AND made Henry not so insufferable after the match. Wait...it was ...oh, you get my drift.... I actually did enjoy the match. It wasn't fantastic, but it was certainly very good soccer and a joy to watch. No one ruined it. It was a very good game overall considering the stupid Lehmann episode. The game was 15 minutes in. Why the ******** would he act like a lunatic and take a man down like that? Another Lehmann brain-fart. This is great news for Poland. As for the overall outcome, Arsenal has itself to blame: 1. Henry misses 1:1 in opening minutes. 2. Arsenal get free-kick on a Eboue DIVE and score. 3. Henry misses another 1:1...that could have sealed the deal. 4. Almunia lets in two very-soft goals. Lehmann would have saved at least one. So its all on Henry and Lehmann. The ref made mistakes both ways. There was also a questionable hand ball in the Arsenal box... should of let the goal counted but if it did then who is to say Barca would of just settled down a bit a kill the game off a little, they have been known to be a bit more defensive when they have the lead, especially in the CL REF ruined it. horrible game. He didn't favor any side. Barcelona would've liked the goal more than the red card also. I think we didnt see a great match by many things and not only one. 1 The Arsenal Gk fault.. 2 The Arsenal players attitude.. i honestly think they dont think much about play soccer.. his game was too many hard "pasa el balon pero no el hombre" The ball will overpass me but not the man. They did too many faulst and being honest i think the shold finish teh match whit 9 man 3 The F C Barcelona coach. We have a great coach but i think that dont was his best game, i think was one of the worses. Because all the season we was playing whit the same style the most of the times. I know its not easy to play against 10 guys closed in his field side and making good counter whit an striker like Henry.. But when He finalty recovered the common sense and maked the correct changes we scored two goals in 10 minutes. I dont think was teh reffere fault.. He did one of teh worse ref games i ever see, its obvius the game was advantage+goal+red car and fw minutes after the Arsenal should to lost another of his player by a terrible fault. And the Aresonal goal comes from a fault only was in the arsenal supporters hopes and the referee mind. But i dont think any of that was the cause of taht disapointed game. For me for ever my fav final will be the Sampdoria-FC Barcelona 1992 in Wembley a pretty match,in a pretty stadium in a pretty age ( 16 ). About that one.. im obviusly so much happy by teh result but dissapoited by my team game, and for us its important to win but how we do it too. When we use the word "blame" in the context of Ronaldinho here we do it tongue-in-cheek. We do it with humour. I do think that we need some humour around this topic because in fact it was ridiculous that the ESPN commentators and other pundits around the world were blaming the ref for what was a split-second call and a clear red according to the rules of football--all the while completely ignoring Ronaldinho's pass. My opinion is that Lehmann made the mistake as a result of Ronaldinho's genius. And my point is that such plays and passes as the one that Ronaldinho made to Eto'o can change the game, or "ruin" it. That's football: teams and players try to breakdown other teams and players and force them into mistakes and what we build up in our own minds to be "dream finals" rarely materialize the way we expect them to. In fact, terms like the "dream final" should probably only be employed in the past tense, once a match is done and everyone has had a chance to digest the brilliance and the beauty that has transpired. And indeed the Barcelona-Arsenal match was no beauty but I thought it was still a very interesting one to watch especially because it spawned interesting discussion subjects like these...Cheers guys... Many people are slamming the referee but I think the one who ruined the final was Lehmann. Had the referee not sent him off and say Lehmann had gone on to win it for Arsenal in a penalty shoot out (a la Shumacher in 82) - then I'm sure many people would be talking about how the referee was to blame.
