=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Kobe Bryant Childhood: Exploring Lakers Legend's Life in Italy and ...]
Kobe Bryant in Italy Kobe Bryant spent a huge chunk of his childhood and teenage years in Italy. In 1983, his father Joe Bryant joined the ball club AMG Sebastiani Basket, based in the Italian city of Rieti. Since the age of 3, Bryant was involved in basketball. When he reached Italy at the age of 6, he vowed to make the NBA. After two years in the city of Rieti, Joe Bryant moved to Reggio ...
URL: https://thesportsrush.com/nba-news-kobe-bryant-childhood-exploring-lakers-legends-life-in-italy-and-philadelphia/

["Ciao Kobe" | The Untold Story of Kobe Bryant's Childhood in Italy]
5 days ago · Before he became the Black Mamba, Kobe Bryant was a young American kid growing up in Italian basketball towns far removed from the spotlight of the NBA.
URL: https://www.si.com/nba/video/ciao-kobe-the-untold-story-of-kobe-bryant-s-childhood-in-italy-01kjfe9ypnzwpd7p6vb4

[Kobe's Childhood In Italy: How His Early Years Shaped Basketball ...]
May 21, 2025 · His deep love for the game became evident in his playing style and dedication. Kobe Bryant’s Italian upbringing significantly influenced his professional career, equipping him with valuable skills and insights that contributed to his legacy in basketball. What memorable stories from Kobe’s time in Italy continue to resonate today?
URL: https://travelpander.com/did-kobe-live-in-italy/

[Kobe Bryant: How a tiny basketball court in Italy helped mold an ... - CNN]
Jan 25, 2025 · Editor’s Note: A new series “Kobe: The Making of a Legend” traces the story of Kobe Bryant from his childhood in Italy to his athletic superstardom and provides an intimate look at his post ...
URL: https://www.cnn.com/2025/01/25/sport/kobe-bryant-italy-nba-legend-spt-intl

[Kobe Bryant on how growing up in Italy gave him the advantage over more ...]
Oct 18, 2024 · Fundamentals above everything else Bryant lived in Italy from age six to 13 while his dad, Joe Bryant, played for various teams in the country. While the young KB polished his skills European style, prospects at AAU beefed up their athletic abilities. This gave the “Black Mamba” an advantage early on.
URL: https://www.basketballnetwork.net/old-school/kobe-bryant-growing-up-italy-gave-advantage-over-athletic-american-players


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Kobe Bryant Childhood: Exploring Lakers Legend's Life in Italy and ...] ---
After his father Joe Bryant had completed three seasons with the Philadelphia 76ers, he was blessed with the birth of his son, Kobe Bryant, in 1978 in Philadelphia. The only son of Pamela Cox and Joe Bryant, a young Kobe was always on the move because of his father’s professional endeavors. After eight seasons in the NBA, Joe ‘Jellybean’ Bryant went to Italy and played eight more years in the European country. He returned to Philly after a sizeable stretch in Italy till 1991. Thus, Kobe Bryant’s childhood and adolescence were shaped in both Philly and Italy. Advertisement Kobe Bryant in Italy Kobe Bryant spent a huge chunk of his childhood and teenage years in Italy. In 1983, his father Joe Bryant joined the ball club AMG Sebastiani Basket, based in the Italian city of Rieti. Since the age of 3, Bryant was involved in basketball. When he reached Italy at the age of 6, he vowed to make the NBA. After two years in the city of Rieti, Joe Bryant moved to Reggio Calabria to play for their ball club. After Reggio and Olimpia Pistoia, Kobe and his family moved to Reggiana as his father joined his third Italian ball club. In Reggiana, as a 12-year-old, Kobe often flashed his incredible basketball skills on the court during half-time shows. Through his years in Italy, the Mamba also became a fluent speaker of the Italian language An article by NBC News author Claudio Lavange covers the reaction of Bryant’s friend Davide Giudici, who played with him in Reggiana’s youth club. After learning about his friend’s passing in 2020, Giudici expressed, “When he often told us that one day he would become a professional NBA player, we would make fun of him. But he worked hard for it even back then. At the end of our training, the rest of us would just go watch TV or do other things. Kobe, instead, would go home and keep training with the basket his father put up for him in his garden.” While Bryant would often come back to his home and shoot through the hoop, it was football that grabbed all the attention in Italy. Therefore, it was natural that as a kid, the Mamba took a liking to the most famous game in the world. In fact, when he played the game, he likened himself to Brazilian legend Pele. Kobe Bryant in Philadelphia While Bryant’s love for the NBA peaked in Italy as he became a showman himself, his NBA journey could only take off in full flow when he returned to Pennsylvania. Jack Fleming of the LA Times wrote an article containing the details about Bryant’s childhood home which was put up for sale in 2020. The listing agent revealed that the Mamba’s metal hoop by the driveway is still intact, thus preserving a huge piece of his legacy. Bryant’s 1950s-built 3,400 square feet childhood home was sold by his father in 2008 for $500,000. His high school Lower Merion was situated just a few miles away from the home and this is where Bryant shot to prominence in his teenage years. As a freshman, he made the varsity team which was the first instance for the school. After a 4-20 record in his first year, the scintillating player led the team to a 77-13 record in the next three years. In his junior year, Bryant put up 31.1 points, 10.4 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 3.8 blocks, and 2.3 steals per game. He made it to the fourth All-American Parade team. Despite attracting big attention from colleges, it was in Philly that Bryant decided to enter the 1996 NBA Draft as the youngest player in league history.


--- ["Ciao Kobe" | The Untold Story of Kobe Bryant's Childhood in Italy] ---
01:01:22 | Up Next Is Reconciliation Possible Between Crosby & the Raiders? Mar 2, 2026 Giannis & Trae Are Back: But For How Long? Mar 3, 2026 DeMarvion Overshown: The Most "Authentic" Cowboy in the NFL? Mar 2, 2026 Cooper Flagg & Kon Knueppel Battle for ROTY Mar 3, 2026 Albert Breer on Top Combine Standouts, David Montgomery to Texans Mar 3, 2026 Is Reconciliation Possible Between Crosby & the Raiders? Mar 2, 2026 Giannis & Trae Are Back: But For How Long? Mar 3, 2026 DeMarvion Overshown: The Most "Authentic" Cowboy in the NFL? Mar 2, 2026 Cooper Flagg & Kon Knueppel Battle for ROTY Mar 3, 2026 Albert Breer on Top Combine Standouts, David Montgomery to Texans Mar 3, 2026 Joe Mazzulla is the Clear Coach of the Year Mar 3, 2026 Ranking CBB Top 5, Miami RedHawks IN or OUT?, Big East Sinking | Others Receiving Votes Mar 2, 2026 Brandon Glanton is Viewing Jai Opetaia as 'Just Another Guy" 11 hours ago Albert Breer on Lack of Franchise Tags Across NFL 2 hours ago Is This the Hardest 2 Minutes in Fitness? Noah Ohlsen on Red Bull Rancher Strong Mar 2, 2026 A Star-Studded Field Takes the Course at the Arnold Palmer Invitational Mar 2, 2026 Arnold Palmer Invitational Best Bets Mar 3, 2026 Transcript la cosa divertente que Medicord. touched the lives of so many and his legacy endures across the world. You may think the court you see here is in Los Angeles. But what if I told you this is Italy. where Kobe grew up with his family for seven years from the age of six. so much of the man he became began here. tragic passing he is deeply missed by his Italian. Chao. O botas que vengo es un culpo al cual de S. Chao, C. C. K. Chao Chao. Chao. Chao. Chao Chao. Ciao. I've been thinking about this quote. I jump everything else is groomed Italian style. I wanted to know what you meant by that . I've come to Italy where the people remember so fondly. This film is for you. The Bryant family moved to Italy in 1984. There was Kobe, his sisters Sharia and Shire, M Pam and Dad, Joe. For the first two years, they found themselves in the ancient town of Rieti, which is almost three thousand years old. After an eight-year NBA career, Joe is about to get his first taste of Italian basketball. significado ha estado siempre con la oportunidad per prendere grocadori portarli de la nostra fattibamos siempre visti come la sociedad, la squadra que portaba con grandes jugadores en segundo. Luigi, it's a pleasure to meet you here in your wonderful town and you've been a basketball journalist here since 1974, the perfect person to tell us a Joe Bryant story had the chance to sign Joe Bryant. They invited him to play at the summer tournament in San Benedicto del Tronto. The game started and Joe Bryant put on a show. the first half the coach said to the general manager, let's get him the general manager of Joe Bryan talking with the manager of another team Livorno manager yelling get out get out my player I don't want to see you anymore they said to the hotel don't talked to phone to anyone until the contract. This was Joe's new home, The Palace, which opened its doors ten years before the Bryants arrived. Joe was dominant on this floor recording multiple point performances. You could say like father, like son. Kobe would tail his dad to games immersing himself in a professional environment from the beginning. la primera también acompañado de la mamá Palmera al Ple Junior Cidei vayamos el minibasquete. Yo o el alenador del minibasquete Gi estos bambino que era visco de bambini que alenbamos hoy más que ragazzo estaba ya bambini. que. suspension as la suspensión y para entrar en campo a la familia. The arena itself is named after Willie Sjourne , a former ABA champion with the New York Nets. He spent six seasons here in Rieti. And just like the five Bryants who lived here, Willie was born in Philadelphia. He tragically passed away after his playing career was over in this very town. And it's extremely harrowing to see both his and Kobe's jerseys hanging in the rafters here. we are in front of what was Kobe and Joe Bryant's house. at the gate of the house and you see at the top there is that stone triangle and the Kobe used that top of that triangle like like a basketball and the administration of the ice was very worried because he said one of this day it will destroy the glass of the gate but it never happened. Kobe always always hit the point of the triangle. So no surprises then. Kobe was able to find a way to shoot, even if there wasn't a basket around. They say his bedroom walls were covered in Magic Johnson posters and his US based grandparents used to send over tapes of basketball games. Kobe would then study his idol Magic, Larry Bird and MJ, and come to this court down the road from his house, which is now adorned in Laker Purple and gold to perfect his craft. The very first game of Kobe at the age of eight nineteen eighty six. lleva un trofeo que se llama Luis como no podido participar. me acordo con la alenador de la escuadra adversaria jogar. The game starts Kobe gets the ball and score. The other team makes the inbound. Kobe steals the ball and scores y a aquel punto elenador me me dice no. no es posible tropo fuerte. At a certain point there were nine boys crying the four Kobe crying because they said it doesn't make us play doesn't pass the ball and the five boys of the opponent team because they couldn't do anything. They grabbed Kobe. They gave him some cake, some eggs and they said Kobe Ok, you are the MVP of the tournament and now let us play Kobe show. Now we are going to Kobe's First School, Guglielmo Marconi Elementary School. Guglielmo Marconi was the inventor of the radio. Kobe Bryant easily learned Italian at school. Tanto que en el NBA cuando el italiano loca era un nostroofillo dirigent. que sentíamos muerto la loro mancanza han hallado un ceño verlo positivo a Rieti Suno del loro es uno de Inostri. We are happy we are happy that he was the first time in Italy in our town so we consider. adopted citizen. That was the perfect way to finish my stay in Rieti, watching a game here. There is Luigi, my best friend. Perry and Lorenzo Pitchin were both wearing Kobe shoes. That made me stop and think, especially with his jersey hanging above them whilst they played my favorite. Kobe's job back then, here on this very court was towel boy and that job still exists. One of the boys, every time he got back to the basket , had to meticulously fold his towel, put it back in the tray and on he went. Such a good stop. I'm already in love with Italian basketball. I cannot imagine how a young Kobe Bryant felt here for two years, but he and the family headed south next, and that's where I'm off to Reggio Calabria. I'll see you there. a beautiful place it was here you can see the Strait of Messina which separates Reggio Calabria from Sicily. My first port of call was to meet up with Davide God, who was a former teammate of K's. While I would be staying with Day at his home in Reggio Emilia to finish the trip. He was kind enough to travel south and experience this area with me. C K, Davide, tu ex compaño de escuadra. porque finalmente a Calabria, que un poco maravilloso que te está dedicato. Pienso que estoy contento. Era era un grave tra mil dificultades arribó en un impianto y palo del grande alenadores de construido en 45, pero hospital en la escuadra . Joe Bryant arribó a Sia. Era una escuadra construida programada per vincer el campeonato . This is the same exact floor, it hasn't changed in forty years that you can now see the juniors playing on. That's vintage. I'm sure that in the eighties the fans were crazy, you know, it was full of people, very crowded. I think that Joe Bryant liked to play for time. I used to hide the basketball here in this gym , he would screw up magazines and start shooting into the absolutely, absolutely. Kopi veniva tirado fuori, si fermaba en prima fila al bottegelle perseguía la partida. Lou Lou noseguiva la partida, pero Lou prendeba el chestino de las pachatura de la inmundicia y con cualsiasi carta continuaba a fare partida continuaba a jogar, aunque sense guardar la partida del papá porque este objetivo era siempre ganes. Precio diventa dos storia. So this is where the Bryants lived in Reggio Calabria. As Kobe sat on this little beach dreaming about playing in the NBA one day. Who knows? a nice spot. durante una partida old time y telecronista de la época, Joseph Ble andó a entrevistar a Joe Bryant a bordo campo. Chao, Joe. Cómo está? Bueno, gracias. El jornalista que es? Cómo va la crescita di Corby. Joe dice Corby Gre seguro que debe entrar un jocador. and some player Kobe became NBA titles 2008 league MVP two time Olympic gold medalist. Long before all of that, the Bryants one year stay in the south of Italy they did not see the P C Fior open in 1990. It's a building Manu Ginobili once called home before his own NBA journey began and it remains a landmark for the locals. Cenador de derecho Calabria. Esc se le obedeció arriba con la malettina la viola de súbito la maleta y cantaron arribó. Chao, chao. seamos de un chinco subito prese pallones. Chao, Cosby. S Renato y que acompaño di squadra. Cosby era enamorado de la pala. Era enamorado del yo. Escuto lo transm que no acompañ di squadra, que era vamos, aunque a volte comprensible de estar siempre conto palón in mano. The hardest job in the world to say to Kobe Bryant you have to come off. What did you used to say in that situation con molte gestione Louis. Faceva capire, que voleva a estar en campo. pero yo a Gómez Gestirlo posso dire con molta sinceridad que el básquet italiano ya ha dado tanto. ya ha enseñado y fundamental ha enseñado el jogo de escuadra y ha enseñado estar ensieme el grupo con movimenti que Luis Boleva F G L Fva, Michael Jordan Cesta en campo Cesti movimenti parcoli. no es una gara. Aquí he estado importante ver a Kobe Bryant parte de su historia de la nuestra historia es de una historia maravillosa, pero un campeón indelible que hoy tenemos en Penn. Why did Kobe love living here ? He estado siempre tratado al menos de hoy come un fratellino. Windy come cualcuno de la familia. Windy. Presumo que sí se ha sentido un poc en familia o que se han dado que en Italia. Yo soy perto que Luis cuando jogaba, por ejemplo, contro Ginobili, paramos en italiano. Ginobiliciuto qui lo ricord regio Calabria che ricordo vivo en Luis ha absorbido ancora dispu amore que Rio Calabria con amore que en Italia ya ha dado. que porta siempre en mi acuario. y tú si su ordenador, su ordenador a su picolino cuando es importantísimo, pues con todos los que a veces falto que soy fundamental, etcétera, que Luis, pues siempre conto grande que un po un po de y de yas son que tú lo que te quedo cortesemente cuando sentirá la familia de recordar el mío pensiero, la cuál es la foto la foto. y siempre con la famosa frase Cosby vive siempre no. de contar hoy en el basket. There was such a kind and sweet nature to Rocco, and I just had to give him a hug goodbye. halfway point of my stay in Italy and what I was discovering more than anything else was how welcoming and generous people. cherished the Bryant family and because of that they were going above and beyond to support me before I boarded a train towards Pistoia stop in Kobe's story this region had one more surprise. This is known as Paco, a mysterious breathtaking ghost town. Its name derives from the Greek penda meaning five and dactyle meaning fingers which refers to the mountain shape that name felt fitting given. de. NBA Champions Reggio Calabria memorable for so many reasons. Thank you for sharing your story with Kobe is actually in Reggio Emilia, which is where my final stop will be and it's where the Bryants finished the Italian trip right? Kobe spent two years played together for two seasons so we have a lot of memories there a lot of people knew Bryan's family and of course so I wait for you there. I was headed north anticipating what was still to come. It's not just the places Kobe lived in Italy that still celebrate him and marked the heartbreak. I had to jump off the train at Salerno because I've heard there's an incredible basketball court at a school dedicated to Kobe and let's go and find it. miles up the coast Naples was host to the encore. Welcome everyone to Kobe Park. So my first experience as a driver in Italy, let's see how I go, shall we? My next stop I'm headed to Cirio, which is a mountainside village population of approximately seven hundred fifty residents. Bryant family lived there for two years whilst Joe was playing for Olympia Pistoia, which is about twenty minutes drive down the road. And this village is where Kobe formed some seriously strong friendships that continued. after he left Italy and I'm very fortunate to be meeting with three of those friends today. I heard a beautiful village. I'm gonna start with Alessia Piet Kobe actually went back to in and he knocked on Alessia's door. I can't wait to meet her and I can't wait to get there. a las siete. Es un del campanar. No. Yo me hizo una fachada guardo de Cobby el Luis. Sí, para que el Luis. no me abre y no me falla entrar en casa. Sí, va a entrar en casa es que no la veo visto sentito la mia con ocasión era un ginocchia estamo super Má la visto a la est la presa en brazo un pianto de de de de. con lo que echarlo es que es potendo crec es creo que unia mental. crecer en un puesto donde libero, un bimbo es libero. Fui es un libere bambini. Luis tornaba a casa. Yojaba fallaba pranzo con lo sentí bienísimo el que sentí el hijo, el sofón de básquete te pasaba y andaba al campo. Aboluto propio. Yo le ha estado propuesto diversas habitaciones, su pistola. El Luis haeltoelto, sí. cuando K menudo a trar mis buenos que seamos a pie del campo desportivo. Cuando seamos el cartel de dicirello Luis su una foto. No habíamos el cartel original que andamos a vender de eso. E. que el cartel lo dijo. nos vamos fáciles fotos. luego cual alguno doso he pasado a a escribir a la llave de mensaje. que han escrito se tuinoy. a Chiria habíamos tantas castañas propio una zona de castañas. Habíamos un plato típico de la montaña pisto que se llama Nchi tipo una crepe fas pero con farina de castaña que arrotoleamos y metíamos dentro riota o nutella a C ya llevamos tanto probably tried to cook it when he was back in LA Imposible. imposible. pero le iba a tornar a Mare Celli, pizza, lasagne, le sue preferite. Ah, es el camp, el campo donde yojaba hobby. Cuando se con Kobe japo era completamente distruto. El lujo el yo no parlando dice ante José me han quedo. Cuando torno, tiraron una mano a meter a puestos jampeto troppo el suceso fue lo que es suceso. Habíamos volto no y meter a puestos japeto. I wanted to show you the first jersey. This is tiny. mi emoción hago esto. a. I connected with the heart era al de del del básquete era una cosa naturales de persona de de era soare tanto era devoto fuerte las vallas, pero era enamorado de la vida. una persona que era enamorado de la vida y que fallaba disto porque la persona que le estaban en torno en esta era. En que esto es el libro de la comunión de mi ofrecerlo. donde han pasado las comuniones con Cía. Esta es la expresión de la propiedad furbetto. eh Tbanos su triunfor en mano porque era usanza y cuando el bimbi fallb las comuniones para el ingreso en quas con una justifior en mano. tell me what you think que era tanto feliz. Era un bimbo felices. Estamos no bene. Era no propio content y una familia. aprobado en esta libertad que Perú es una inspiración divina. Es que seamos que habíamos parlado. arribadito piu d'una volta insistentemente addir mi bollo que le mi file conozca no cuesta realtá vdano come si vive. hacíamos. que es suyo. Pamela. la mi mamá. ni ofrecerlo. Kobe. feel a responsibility not just yourself but as a country to remember Kobe the right way and continue his legacy. una responsabilidad, una un deber y cual cosa veramente la familia está tanto importante porque eso no está. No obstante, Pamela había participado a Miss Universe, una dona bellísima. Italia ancora no sentirse aunque unos calos superiores a veces eran nuestro padre, son siempre. veramente una cosa de recordar siempre. echaba siempre multa calma en casa. cual cosa veniva a afrontar a junir sonriso. Era no, una bellísima copia. Rideva era feliz y estabas cartando y eso no está. That's probably the only time I've seen eating sugar. Pues sí, puede ser. puede ser. Sí, es vero. y pues una per di torta se justa la torta subo que después no la veamos divas. It's very clear that a mostrar foto es como a ver a Luis que que habíamos hablado tanto tanto de su privar de la mia vita tanto eso no fermamente convinta el dolor es grande que Louis. haberme falto tantísimo ver tantas personas. pero Bimbi dijo a super in generale a ver me falto tanto. ni sofante. me ha llamado una viajar a mi hija diciendo mi a la que suceso Kobe. eh, No, lo so. Qué suceso, Kobe dice Ma , parlano de un incidente en helicóptero. el detonado una fe que creer. en la prima Josa G Fatto. Lui me había balado el su número. yo escrito Dime que no es vero. Manolo Mauro risposta. cuando en un primer momento le vivo con un po di angosta de malinconia. e poi pienso que fundamentalmente Luis T Bé y Quin son igualmente felices. con un poc de tristeza más. I'm so sorry and thank you for your time. You've been so kind and you are such a colorful human. I am glad that he knew you. If anything else, I'm glad that Kobe knew you. escribir que Habrá evoluto que tornase a chiria. Sí, de ver. Gracias. Gracias a T. pero lo que estás haciendo. Gracias, me cry. Thank you. Thank you. a lovely place to remember him. Sí, sí, ha puesto. so grateful to have met Alessia. She truly is an extraordinary woman. No part of me wanted to leave this special place and there was just enough time to connect with two more the Bryant family's closest friends during their time here Jacomo and Elisa were waiting for me back at Camp Kobe with some remarkable stories. era si viveva la típica familia americana que no se sabe como era esta le dijo la acción y me dijo en la sala y me dijo la hace el lora Halloween la primera te lo hizo. Ah, sí, es vero que Halloween no sistema. Cobiera falleva puliva per terra cuando se firmaba el tempo de la partida y lo fallva cuando llevaba mi pistola es cuando el padre fue con bojazo yo a a los Serguei me dije de teléfono me va lo sponsor y dice me meto las las uso Martín publiciz dice entregado la bicicleta durante la partida. O segundo se firmaba el tempo. Luis Bustaba en campo azulire a logo dopo telefonó a mi ba sno Cos hobbies y dice la voz llorosa. te dijo esa me la dijo. Me lo dijo Benísimo. Cuesta de me la regaló. Yo he de la malla del derbi Fido tantas, tantas dúas contra Monte de la biología esta no una volta penso Cento yo con esta malla no lo dijo ver retórica. yo esta malla no la daré vía perniente al mundo. non si sapeva claramente Luis no. y el Luis y estos discursos y dice tanto y este diventaremos campeones que esto era y yo firmé Louis una t-shirt blanca. El Luis firmó porque se dice cosi al menos cuando seremos veramente famosi. a testimoni fc y me viene en mente que el primo per me. por este regalo a la época de Michael Jackson . Christopher Kobe. Ce con la K, la y la ypsilon estoso me dice cómo se escribe K B. Mmm. Cómo está suficiente. o cheque. Corro firma per testimoniar el factor que con She ayer era una especial simpatía cuando firmó con esta sharpa la voz le firm S P a firma dopio valor dopio valor. I was headed to Montecatini Terme about thirty miles southwest of Cirio speaking of memories to last a lifetime. How about this one twenty year old Federico Bgini being guarded by eleven year old Kobe Bryant Federico was waiting for me along with his friend Bruno y Aluna who was Kobe's coach on that unforgettable. con establimiento termal es excepcional. El testucho es un patrimonio UNESCO que debemos defender como como emociones que habíamos visto cuando habíamos condivido la experiencia en 1989. Te lo record historia. Sí, una cosa increíble que la pelota que chocaba el ba el padre con el fillo ensieme has de esta escuadra en 1989. y yo me recuerdo mi llamada y scarsísimos jugadores de scarsos jugadores de seguramente no al nivel de personajes que lo frecuentaban de organizadores del torneo de coaches maledetto de la Calla que chocaba contra, vero? Sí, sí, sí, sí, un honor porque jugar alar a gente como Joe Bryant, Kobe Bryant y grandes campeón de Sano está P P. esta cosa extrañísima. Es belísima, es única en el de la Walk of Fame fondo propio al sector, Kobe Bryant, dietro di casa. que me llama a la familia a la que son venuti a fare una pasada en Montecatini en práctica que casualmente doc típico de Montecatini. Sí, ahora hablamos una y la manchamos. Bye. Ah Este es el motivo per cui mi yo Pues que Monte Montecatini de Manch de. demás Palazzo. Sí, el momento millor. Reviviamos con la fasta bort Max. estaba la ragazza e vamos aquí a un cierto punto durante la partita, dijo en un torneo como Giovani o bote que la panquina me guardaba como cuando toca me so you called Federico a few weeks before this to play in this tournament at the time Kobe Kobe goes onto the court Federico is defending him looking forward to it. no me aspetamos con lo que fue el suceso de Federico, aunque el momento ha estado bruto. El dudo me va a marcar a Kobe. Good luck, Federico, Federico's find out what happened next. This is the exact spot where you are standing. I'm here. So here's the photo. Just tell me what you see. bambino prende la espalda sense paura. Guarda el canestro. Non pensa mínimamente ni pasarla. Esca el tiro. Chuf canestro. Segunda acción. nuevamente la pala de Gino Gino tira Cf. Segundo canestro tío era un jugador de minors italiane es un jugador importante y defender canestro. No debe marcar prende la fa per tirarlo. no lo voy a vender en la mano y un campo va a durarme y le dijo amigo mío de defender su so bizarre that he is wearing number. seasons with the Lakers just a coincidence Dino fatalidad, fato, caso que poderes son otro en un forse al momento, justo en el momentos vallado. No lo so. Bruno, you texted me the other day and you said I might be able to find one of Kobe's jerseys because he wore during this tournament and you found it. The number four de un jugador que debe venir a punto y no era venudo a el torneo. en la malla número oto a la foto de Alibaba vestito la malle ple con la número cuatro la malla número cuatro cuesta de la segunda cera . ended the shirt is for I was perfect perfect. before I left Montecatini I wanted to shine a light on something after Kobe and Gana's passing Federico wrote a heartfelt letter to the person he had once shared the court is the final passage. bimbo adesso potrai far enamorar de la palacesto ogni tuo canestro un diseño divino. Forse un giorno yo queremo ancora uno contro uno sense dubio mirenderai con la tragicómica mentre tu filla guardará ridendo viacst tu belísimo conocerte. Reggio Emilia, the final stop for the Bryants. It's where Kobe became a teenager and the city where the Italian flag was born. It was a Saturday morning and I was reunited with Day, who had joined me down south earlier in the trip. He was on coaching duty for one of his youth teams and afterwards, he showed me that this very project had made the local newspaper Gazeta. in Reggio Emilia and became friends with him off it in the city's Piazza de la Victoria. They had once played in the finale provinciale Basket tournament and David's captured some priceless footage, not least the moment Kobe's dad Joe had briefly checked in on an injury before sending him back. It was a wise decision. The team won the competition comfortably. Naturally, Kobe got his hands on the trophy first. a few minutes walk away from the piazza is Kobe's old house. Yeah we used to come here and call Hey, calm down. No era difícil de convencerlo de venir a jocar de basquet con hoy. and difficult as it always is for him when he returns there David wanted to visit the last place he saw Kobe in 2016. si aperto el cancelo en fondo entrato un pullman, un pullman grande, un pullman gigante. a fine Christopher y una fuerte porque no pas tant en el vamos a cambiar apenas me ha visto me hey, David, cómo está? Esto increíble. Sí, sí, efectivamente una pizza como si fuese posible a mandar una pizza con Kobe Bryant la promesa de todo. puesto en cada Está la cosa obviamente que mira. Ah. el destino está t veramente crudel con una cosa que mi fa estado un poquito mal pensando en que apunto a este que son papá el facto de no haber podido pasar tanto tiempo con la propia filla, con la propia familia. Pues la la historia de amor de Trac Italia por eh, porque está fundamentalmente el último puesto que he visitado a punto en nuestro países un poquito logo que perm. era bastante sacro y siempre en mi cuer. question. Gracias. Hasta luego. Chao. Chao. He avoided playing playground with us. We were like eleven years old because he was he had a sore knee and he said no, I'm not gonna play today because I'm too scared about getting hurt and then my NBA career could be compromised. So that was, you know, the mindset that Kobe had a ten years old, eleven years old was just incredible. Luis y yo cual cosa que es visto con pasiones fin fin de pícolo di pasar a travéso momento empeñativo de la suavita S paroles suas en en el propio en el propio. Yo creo que la cosa importante que que alegato Kobe A sea la idea de de de de familia y es una persona de de familia de poderse siempre sentir y tornar a sentir en familia a igual que que tornelloilla. La cosa la ver la de es que, eh uno de uno de uno de. We left him as a kid and after four or five years, we had a poster with Kobe Duncan and the NBA contest. 1997 he came back in Italy for a couple of weeks for Adidas event the smiling and the eyes right away you know by Kobe. When we arrived to Milano and the whole city was moving for him and he was arriving in limousine. I was shocked because I understood who he was becoming. An Italian is proud about Kobe and about have hosted Kobe for the beginning, the first part of his life. a lot of things over the years about your city . He left you a lovely gift es una edición especial dependencia de Estados Unidos. actually Kobe has been the first friend we lost. To be honest, I was really sure that he would have been the last one. No, I don't think there is an end of a processing of what happened. I'm just missing something a little part of my life, piece of the puzzle is just missing that's it. It will be always missed and I will always try to find it. C. not many people know about this place. We are in Monte Cabo. This is a small village. los Bryan's family lived here for the first season playing for Pana and this is the local news agent and probably inside we found the same guy who works at the time come on. de la familia Bryant en particular cuando habitamos Montecarlo su estadio no local local. yo aprendí el giro cuando cuando perdí cuando le com estado pero vivo aquí a Montecabo pido pido porque cuando andaba bien portaba la clave de casa portaba clave de cara de que la máquina en siempre. there was something so moving about Giuseppe, the man running the news agents still working there all these years later. and then it was off to dinner with Marco Ferreri, who was Kobe's teammate and shooting partner in Reggio Emilia behind a small church their old stomping ground happens to be one of the more distinctive basketball settings you could possibly find. we are eating dupa inglesa that is a typical desert from Reggio Emilia. Tell me more about the space and how often you guys used to play there almost every Saturday surrounded by houses. the three point line is the midline of the court and the baskets are stuck to the wall one window here and two windows there when we are lucky and the window we are not open, otherwise it was more difficult, you know. and you played for the Reggio Emilia Junior team and you brought with you a photo which is a very precious photo. This is the original. There is one particular thing that people need to look for Kobe was playing with me and he was one year younger in this photo you can see that he was putting himself on the tip. When you guys play one on one, how many times did he win? What was the fifty fifty fifty fifty one year older. You got a good record again but I think just two years more and it was like zero percent. It was almost impossible, impossible to stop playing. He didn't want to leave the court being the team that lost the last game against short me down. He had a completely different way of playing basketball compared to us. Why? Because I think he was already aspiring to copy his father tell me. Emilia was in love with Joe. He was a very good point shooter. I'm very conscious as well on my travels that there are a lot of memories for Kobe. Joe, he's now passed away as well. But Reggio Emilia at the core itself, they have something to remember Joe. There is a photo you are going to see tomorrow in front of. Aa Joe hugging from behind with a basketball. This is the memory that came to the mind of the people of Reggimilia when he died. I mean I've seen pictures of the city lit up in purple and gold. You love the guy we talked enough and you haven't touched your dessert so I need to let you eat. Ok. Thanks, Mark. You're welcome. Cheers, cheers. I spent the next morning at Kobe's old school in the city. What I discovered there well imagine the teachers trying to prize Kobe away from this at the end of the lunch hour. Italy it would appear is an endless supply of basketball masterpieces too. When Kobe was in the classroom, he spent much of his time sitting next to his friend Jada Maslovich. I drove to Milan, where she now lived and it turned out to be one of the most revealing conversations. Yo recuerdo que di dietro a destra al centro de la clase hiphop en la derechita de las escuelas finales when I was thirteen years old . I was sure that the end of the friendship and then fifteen years later he came back to read and he surprised you entered the shop for Luisa is the name of C Luisa. Cómo está? No. teatro. y cuando la última persona que anoche come Kobe Kobe Bryant. cuando Chamorro avent dopo que la primera cosa que ha facto me ha levato literalmente la tierra y me abrachato físimo y yo paro. la malinconia ansia a un cierto punto después que no hubiera contado la suavita a me veniva quasi. que el que conozco es solo percuelo que sento cuando meto el pie en campo y cuando tú te inicias. buen momento. Basta. e per fare tutto. pensar ultimo saluto yo la única cosa que continuaba siempre siempre. es un bel momento. Un belísimo momento. Yo pensó que era porterón el quarter de aquí a a la final de mi journey. la vita voleva voleva. pero he muerto un very important people with private helicopter cuando tan propio de la My f is Gold Cage killed it. For me it was very, very sad. I've been in Italy for ten days now. This is not a basketball story. It's a human story. penso en el so much. The spectacular Pabi is where Joe Bryant spent his final two seasons in Italy. Kobe played for the junior team and outside this arena, there are many pictures of father and son. This evening, Palacestro Reggiana take on C. Tomorrow, it's the sixth year anniversary of Kobe's passing. So it will be a very emotional evening inside this building leading into tomorrow, the twenty of January. Kobe Bryant, es una figura que ha lachato il cuore de nuestra comunidad de campe del NBA de la historia de la Pestro de cresciuto nostri campetti. Quindi la comparsa la un voto quasi incolm, las comparsas s de la fia. it is a blessing to be able to celebrate Kobe, you know, like this is actually an honor to be you know where Kobe is from just to be in his presence just to be in the memorial that he had to be able to attend that everybody used to call me fade away like I love the fade away but it was actually. that shot it was tragic when we lost you. I feel like everybody in the world everybody knew you still continue to shine so we love you and Sí. it's been so nice to get to know you. Thank you for your generosity and I really believe that you are. doing everything right here Reggio Emilia to celebrate legacy and continue do so much work in this city so it la familia B habíamos coperto aunque en el había un grandísimo y con personas que er legatísima a Joe, a Pamela, a S y Kobe y cuesta obviamente testimonia cuanto especial y Foster y creo que cuesta experiencia de vida que soporto más en el creo que haber una vida millor una coscienza del mundo diversa. Seamos felizes, seamos tristes, obviamente por lo que es suceso, seamos felices pensando que L comunque la shuttle. all the emotion of the memorial, it was good to say a proper goodbye to David in his happy place at home with his sons sharing a love for the game that his old friend Kobe had truly mastered. it was time for me to leave Italy, but it will come as no surprise to anyone to hear that there was one more court to see on the way to the airport. has stirred many emotions and I have felt a profound sense of connection to everybody I've met to those special people. Thank you I have no doubt will remain part of your family. Italian it isn't as natural as yours but I will leave you with my best K G P C.


--- [Kobe's Childhood In Italy: How His Early Years Shaped Basketball ...] ---
Kobe Bryant lived in Italy from ages 6 to 13. His family settled in Rieti and then moved to Reggio Emilia. During this time, he grew passionate about basketball while watching his father, Joe Bryant, play. These childhood years shaped his skills and cultural understanding; he became fluent in Italian. During his time in Italy, Kobe watched his father play games. This exposure inspired his passion for basketball. He learned the importance of dedication and hard work from observing adults in the sport. Kobe’s unique experiences also influenced his playing style. He embraced the European style of basketball, which emphasized teamwork and finesse. His early years in Italy cultivated a strong work ethic and competitive spirit. Kobe practiced tirelessly, often honing his skills alone. This dedication laid the foundation for his future success in the NBA. As he moved back to the United States at age 13, Kobe’s experiences in Italy provided him with a versatile game. He was ready to face the challenges of American high school basketball and eventually the NBA. This transition set the stage for his legendary career. Did Kobe Bryant grow up in Italy, and how did this shape his identity? Yes, Kobe Bryant grew up in Italy. His family moved there when he was six years old because his father, Joe Bryant, played professional basketball in the Italian league. Living in Italy exposed Kobe to a different culture and language. He learned to speak Italian fluently and embraced the lifestyle and values of his Italian surroundings. This international upbringing shaped his identity in several ways. First, it developed his appreciation for art, music, and culture, which influenced his creative approach to basketball. Second, it fostered a global perspective that helped him understand diverse cultures and communities. Third, it instilled a strong work ethic through his parents’ influence and his exposure to competitive sports in Italy. Overall, Kobe’s years in Italy significantly shaped his character and contributed to his development as an athlete and an individual. What specific experiences did Kobe have while living in Italy that influenced his character? Kobe Bryant’s experiences while living in Italy significantly influenced his character and determination. These experiences fostered his work ethic, cultural adaptability, and passion for basketball. - Immersion in Italian Culture - Early Basketball Training - Language Skills Development - Diverse Social Environment - Appreciation for Art and History These points reflect various aspects of Kobe’s time in Italy, which contributed to his multifaceted personality and drive. - Immersion in Italian Culture: Kobe’s immersion in Italian culture allowed him to appreciate different lifestyles and perspectives. Living in Italy from ages 6 to 13, he learned the importance of community and family, influencing his values later in life. Experiencing cultural events enriched his understanding of the world. - Early Basketball Training: During his time in Italy, Kobe began playing basketball seriously. He played against older and more experienced players, which honed his skills. This commitment at a young age laid the foundation for his future success in the NBA. His father, Joe Bryant, encouraged his participation in local leagues, fostering his competitive spirit. - Language Skills Development: Kobe became fluent in Italian, which helped him connect with diverse groups of people. Language skills are vital for effective communication and cultural exchange. His ability to converse in multiple languages added to his adaptability and strengthened his global outlook. - Diverse Social Environment: Living in a multiethnic environment exposed Kobe to different social structures and values. Interactions with peers from various backgrounds enhanced his social skills and empathy. This diversity shaped his view on teamwork and leadership, which later influenced his approach on the basketball court. - Appreciation for Art and History: Italy’s rich history and art scene left a lasting impression on Kobe. He developed a deep appreciation for aesthetics and storytelling, which translated into his creative approach to basketball. This background contributed to his unique playing style and mentality. These experiences collectively shaped Kobe Bryant into a multifaceted individual who excelled both on and off the court. How did Kobe’s upbringing in Italy affect his approach to basketball? Kobe Bryant’s upbringing in Italy significantly influenced his basketball approach by fostering a deep cultural appreciation for the game, enhancing his skills through rigorous training, and instilling a strong work ethic. Kobe lived in Italy from ages 6 to 13. During this time, he absorbed basketball culture that emphasized teamwork and creativity. This exposure helped shape his understanding of the game. Key points include: - Cultural Appreciation: In Italy, Kobe watched professional basketball and learned from local players. This helped him develop a broader perspective on the sport, incorporating diverse playing styles and strategies. - Skill Development: Kobe trained rigorously in Italy. He played against older and more experienced players, which accelerated his skill development. According to a study by Johnson (2017), early competition against stronger opponents often leads to faster player improvement. - Language and Communication: Living in Italy, Kobe became fluent in Italian. This skill aided his ability to communicate with teammates, coaches, and fans in various environments. Effective communication is essential for teamwork and leadership on the court. - Strong Work Ethic: Kobe learned discipline and dedication from his father, Joe Bryant, who played professional basketball in Italy. Kobe’s approach to practice became relentless, reflecting the Italian value of hard work in sports. - Creative Play: Italian basketball promotes creativity and improvisation. Kobe incorporated these elements into his playing style, allowing him to develop unique moves and a diverse offensive game. These aspects of Kobe’s upbringing contributed significantly to his success as one of basketball’s greatest players. They provided him with a foundation that emphasized creativity, discipline, and an understanding of the game that set him apart from his peers. In what ways did Kobe’s family support his interests during his time in Italy? Kobe’s family supported his interests during his time in Italy in several key ways. His father, Joe Bryant, encouraged him to play basketball from a young age. Joe often took Kobe to local games and practices, fostering his enthusiasm for the sport. Additionally, Kobe’s mother, Pam Bryant, provided emotional support. She nurtured his love for the game by attending his games and celebrating his achievements. The Bryant family also embraced the Italian culture, which allowed Kobe to learn new skills and techniques in a different basketball environment. This exposure to a diverse playing style enriched his understanding of the game. Together, these factors created a supportive atmosphere that fueled Kobe’s passion for basketball and shaped his early development as a player. What cultural aspects of Italy played a role in shaping Kobe’s worldview? Kobe Bryant’s worldview was significantly shaped by various cultural aspects of Italy during his childhood. His experiences as a child in Italy provided a unique blend of influences that contributed to his character and values. - Appreciation for Art and Culture - Multilingualism - Exposure to European Sports - Family Values and Community - Work Ethic and Determination These cultural factors contributed uniquely to Kobe’s identity, emphasizing the interplay between his upbringing in Italy and his later success in basketball. - Appreciation for Art and Culture: Kobe’s appreciation for art and culture stemmed from living in a country rich in history and creativity. Italy is renowned for its contributions to art, architecture, and music. This exposure fostered Kobe’s appreciation for beauty and creativity, evident in his approach to basketball as an art form where aesthetics and execution mattered. According to Mason (2020), Bryant often spoke of how Italian culture enhanced his view of basketball as a performance art rather than merely a sport. - Multilingualism: Kobe learned to speak Italian fluently during his childhood, which greatly expanded his worldview. This ability to communicate in multiple languages fostered an understanding of different cultures and social dynamics. Language is a crucial aspect of cultural identity, and being multilingual allowed Kobe to connect with various people throughout his life. Linguistic proficiency often enhances cognitive abilities and cultural empathy, as noted by researchers in the Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development (Smith, 2018). - Exposure to European Sports: Kobe’s experience in Italy exposed him to European sports and styles of play. Basketball in Europe emphasizes teamwork, finesse, and strategic thinking. This exposure helped shape Kobe’s unique playing style that combined individual skill and team dynamics. According to a study by Lichtenstein (2019), Kobe’s time in Europe contributed to his versatility as a player, enabling him to adapt to different playing styles. - Family Values and Community: Kobe grew up in a close-knit family that valued unity and support. In Italy, family and community play a central role in daily life. This upbringing instilled in him strong values of loyalty, respect, and perseverance. Family support was central to his success, especially from his father Joe Bryant, who played professional basketball in Italy. This familial influence helped cultivate a strong work ethic in Kobe, allowing him to pursue his dreams relentlessly. - Work Ethic and Determination: The Italian culture’s emphasis on hard work and determination reinforced Kobe’s relentless pursuit of excellence. His upbringing in a foreign country required adjustment and resilience, qualities that became central to his identity as an athlete. Coaches and mentors often highlighted Kobe’s legendary work ethic, which was reflective of the Italian notion of ‘fare meglio’ (to do better). This concept, rooted in Italian culture, became a driving force in Kobe’s career, as substantiated by experts in sports psychology (Jones, 2021). Kobe Bryant’s childhood in Italy provided crucial cultural influences that shaped his character, values, and success in basketball. These experiences contributed to his multifaceted worldview, combining elements of art, language, community, and a strong work ethic. How did Kobe’s Italian childhood differentiate him from other basketball players? Kobe Bryant’s Italian childhood differentiated him from other basketball players by exposing him to diverse cultural influences, honing his skills in a unique environment, and instilling a global perspective on the game. First, his upbringing in Italy allowed him to immerse himself in different cultures and sports. – Cultural Diversity: Kobe lived in Italy from ages 6 to 13. He learned the Italian language and adopted aspects of the culture, which broadened his worldview. – Sport Variety: In Italy, soccer was the dominant sport, which helped him develop competitive spirit and physical agility that translated well to basketball. Second, Kobe honed his basketball skills in a less conventional environment. – Access to Unique Training: Kobe played with older, more experienced players in local Italian leagues. This provided him the opportunity to face tougher competition at a young age, enhancing his technical skills. – Coaching Influence: He was coached by his father, Joe Bryant, who played professionally in Italy. This familial support allowed Kobe to receive personalized training and guidance. Third, his international perspective on basketball set him apart. – Global Vision: Kobe’s exposure to European basketball styles influenced his understanding of the game. He appreciated different strategies and techniques, which diversified his playing style. – Professional Mindset: Playing in Italy gave him an early understanding of professionalism and dedication to sport, which he carried into his NBA career. These factors combined to create a unique foundation for Kobe Bryant, shaping him into one of basketball’s all-time greats despite his American roots. What lasting impact did Kobe’s experiences in Italy have on his professional career? Kobe Bryant’s experiences in Italy had a lasting impact on his professional basketball career. These experiences shaped his work ethic, skill development, and cultural appreciation. - Language Skills - Cultural Adaptability - Work Ethic and Discipline - Early Skill Development - Love for the Game Transitioning from these points, it is essential to explore how each aspect influenced Kobe’s journey in the NBA. - Language Skills: Kobe Bryant’s experiences in Italy enhanced his language skills. Growing up in Italy, he became fluent in Italian. This ability allowed him to connect with international players and fans. It also helped him navigate various cultural contexts during his career. Being bilingual broadened his communication skills, benefiting him in interviews and team dynamics. - Cultural Adaptability: Kobe’s time in Italy taught him cultural adaptability. He learned to embrace different lifestyles and perspectives. This adaptability translated well in the NBA, where he engaged with diverse cultures. It fostered his ability to build relationships with teammates and understand various playing styles. - Work Ethic and Discipline: Kobe developed a strong work ethic while living in Italy. He greatly admired European basketball training techniques. He adopted a disciplined approach to practice and skill refinement. This work ethic became a hallmark of his career, showcasing his commitment to excellence. - Early Skill Development: Kobe played basketball at an early age in Italy. He competed with older players, which accelerated his skill development. These experiences helped him cultivate essential skills such as footwork, shooting, and basketball IQ. This early exposure laid the foundation for his success in the NBA. - Love for the Game: Kobe’s love for basketball flourished in Italy. He watched his father play professionally and gained inspiration. This passion sustained him throughout his career and motivated him to work harder. His deep love for the game became evident in his playing style and dedication. Kobe Bryant’s Italian upbringing significantly influenced his professional career, equipping him with valuable skills and insights that contributed to his legacy in basketball. What memorable stories from Kobe’s time in Italy continue to resonate today? Kobe Bryant’s time in Italy has left several memorable stories that continue to resonate today. Many fans and analysts often reflect on how these experiences shaped his character and basketball skills. - Immersion in the Italian culture and language - His family’s influence on his basketball journey - Developing a unique playing style influenced by European basketball - Memorable games and rivalries while playing in Italy - Kobe’s early training under Italian coaches These points highlight various aspects of Kobe’s childhood and his time in Italy, showcasing how they contributed to his eventual success. - Immersion in the Italian culture and language: Kobe’s years in Italy immersed him in a new cultural landscape, significantly influencing his worldview. He moved there at age six and became fluent in Italian. This bilingual ability allowed him to connect with players and coaches on a deeper level. His understanding of different cultures fostered empathy, which later helped him connect with fans and teammates globally. - His family’s influence on his basketball journey: Kobe’s family played a pivotal role in nurturing his love for basketball. His father, Joe Bryant, was a professional player in Italy, which provided Kobe access to various basketball environments. Growing up in a basketball family, he learned discipline and work ethic from a young age. This foundation laid the groundwork for his intense drive and focus in the sport. - Developing a unique playing style influenced by European basketball: Kobe absorbed the technical aspects of basketball from European styles, which emphasize skill development and teamwork. He became proficient in fundamentals, engaging in techniques not often highlighted in American basketball at the time. This unique approach contributed to his versatility and adaptability as a player in the NBA. - Memorable games and rivalries while playing in Italy: During his youth, Kobe played in various competitive leagues and face-offs against talented European athletes. These experiences taught him the importance of competition and resilience. For instance, his rivalry with players like Federico Fois provided him with a glimpse into high-level competition that prepared him for the NBA’s rigorous environment. - Kobe’s early training under Italian coaches: Training with experienced coaches in Italy allowed Kobe to refine his skills early on. Coaches emphasized footwork, shooting techniques, and basketball IQ. This training proved critical in shaping his game and was evident during his time in the NBA, where he incorporated these fundamentals into his playing style. Kobe Bryant’s childhood experiences in Italy provided a foundation that informed his mentality and approach to basketball, ultimately contributing to his legendary career. Related Post:


--- [Kobe Bryant: How a tiny basketball court in Italy helped mold an ... - CNN] ---
Editor’s Note: A new series “Kobe: The Making of a Legend” traces the story of Kobe Bryant from his childhood in Italy to his athletic superstardom and provides an intimate look at his post-NBA aspirations as a storyteller and as a father. The three-part series premieres Saturday, January 25, at 9 p.m. ET/PT. Nestled in a peaceful corner of the quaint Italian city of Reggio Emilia sits a tiny playground with basketball hoops glued on opposing walls. The playing surface is worn, bicycles are propped up around its perimeter and the spire of a small local church pokes over the top of the surrounding buildings. Although beautiful, it’s at first unassuming and certainly not somewhere you would link to the glamorous world of the NBA. But this small playground in an idyllic pocket of Italy was once the second home of one of the greatest basketball players in history, Kobe Bryant. Bryant spent many of his formative years in Italy, as his father Joe decided to take his playing career to Europe after leaving the Houston Rockets in 1983. Just six at the time, a young Bryant was thrown into a new culture, a new language and a new way of life – but it was a new world he quickly adapted to and eventually fell in love with. Constantly following his father to different teams across the country, the family’s last stop in Italy was in Reggio Emilia, where Bryant met friend and former teammate Marco Ferraroni. Ferraroni features in CNN’s new Original Films and Series documentary “Kobe: The Making of a Legend,” which marks five years since Bryant’s death. In the first episode, he explains how the pair played together at the local youth team for two years, with Bryant playing with boys a year older because he was already too good for those his own age. Even when there was no organized team practice, Ferraroni remembers spending “eternal afternoons” playing with Kobe on that small court nestled next to the church, with the local priest permitting them access during the day. “We spent hours and hours there. One of my memories of Kobe is that he was always there,” Ferraroni said. “I remember that Kobe was always available to play basketball, even for 1v1, just spending all afternoon playing 1v1 or a three-point competition. He was always there for basketball.” Ferraroni recalls a young Bryant playing a lot like his father, focusing on scoring three pointers which was “peculiar” for Italian players at his age. But while the future NBA legend was physically smaller than much of his competition, what stands out most for Ferraroni was the American’s mentality, a trait which would later become world famous. “I remember a very long Saturday afternoon playing with him,” Ferraroni recalled. “We played all afternoon and it was very difficult to leave because Kobe didn’t want to leave having lost the last game – I was one year older, and it happened that sometimes he lost. “And it was like: ‘No, no, no, play one more, play one more. I want to win. Play one more.’ So it was kind of a never-ending afternoon playing with him.” Obsessed with basketball at a young age, Bryant didn’t have much interest in school while living in Reggio Emilia. His close childhood friend Giada Maslovaric remembers his first day at his new school – she was tasked with keeping an eye on him and the pair soon started socializing in their spare time. Hours would be spent cycling through the city’s cobbled streets, getting its world-famous ice-cream and dreaming of the future. “Kobe did not care for gossip, for shallow things, but when he laughed, he would do so genuinely, so he was good company,” Maslovaric told CNN. Maslovaric never had an interest in sport, let alone basketball, opting instead to focus her attention on school work. While their focuses didn’t align, Maslovaric thinks the pair became such good friends because of their shared passion and determination to achieve. “He would always say that he’d play for the NBA,” she said. “Whenever the topic was mentioned, he was not joking.” “We laughed a lot, but that joke was not funny to him, he would not play along with it. I was the only person laughing, he’d simply respond ‘I’ll get there.’” Return to Italy Kobe would be proved right. After leaving Italy to head back to the US, it wasn’t long before the youngster started making noise, becoming the first ever guard to be drafted straight out of high school by the Charlotte Hornets and joining the Los Angeles Lakers via trade in 1996. Maslovaric watched on from afar as her friend morphed into a global sensation, a world champion, a father and a husband. They would meet again, though, much later in life in 2003. Bryant visited Reggio Emilia and had gone looking for Maslovaric at her mother’s clothing store. Maslovaric’s mother rang her and passed the phone over to Bryant. The pair agreed to meet up two days later. Speaking in CNN’s documentary, Maslovaric recalls some of the deep conversations she shared with the five-time NBA champion when the pair met again. She was fascinated with what his life was now like and whether he enjoyed the fame. In the documentary, she reveals that it seemed to her that Reggio Emilia was the last place that Bryant could be normal and the process of becoming a superstar came at a cost. There was an element of isolation in his life, she said, with Bryant not knowing who he could trust. But it was a price that she thinks the boy who used to play on that small court on an Italian playground was willing to pay, all for his love of basketball. “The description that I got was one of a beautiful, stunning cage, made not of gold, but rather of platinum, of diamond, which was his later life,” she said, referring to a conversation she had with him. “(That’s) the life he chose because that cage allowed him to feel those extremely powerful feelings that he felt as soon as he’d step onto the court. And all of the bars, in spite of being beautiful and golden, disappeared at that moment, it was worth it.” It would be the last time the pair met. Like millions around the world, Maslovaric watched with despair as the news spread of Bryant’s death in 2020. Like her, the city of Reggio Emilia was rocked, its inhabitants left mourning their adopted son. In the years that followed, a plaza in the city was named in honor of Bryant and his daughter Gianna as the community worked together to heal the “collective wound.” For Maslovaric, the murals and tributes to Kobe are bittersweet. On one hand, it serves as a constant reminder that she’ll never see her childhood friend again. But, on the other, she understands the want and need to honor Bryant given his lasting legacy in the city. “Kobe, I believe, has left to Reggio the opportunity for every single child, boy or girl, with a dream and a regular life, to be able to achieve that dream,” Maslovaric added, speaking of Bryant’s legacy. “And I think that’s something extraordinary.”


--- [Kobe Bryant on how growing up in Italy gave him the advantage over more ...] ---
Kobe Bryant had a unique basketball journey. While most American basketball prospects passed through the AAU circuit en route to the NBA, Bryant honed his skills in Italy. Perfecting one’s skills in America makes sense at face value, as it has produced plenty of basketball prodigies. However, as Kobe realized, his early training in Italy gave him a massive advantage over these AAU prospects. Fundamentals above everything else Bryant lived in Italy from age six to 13 while his dad, Joe Bryant, played for various teams in the country. While the young KB polished his skills European style, prospects at AAU beefed up their athletic abilities. This gave the “Black Mamba” an advantage early on. “I was lucky to grow up in Italy at a time when basketball in America was getting f***** up with AAU shuffling players through on strength and athleticism,” Bryant said, per Sports Illustrated, via Yahoo Sports. “I missed all that, and instead, I was taught extreme fundamentals: footwork, footwork, footwork, how to create space, how to handle the ball, how to protect the ball, how to shoot the ball. I wasn’t the strongest kid at that camp. I wasn’t the fastest. I wasn’t the most athletic. I was probably the most skillful, but that didn’t matter. It was all about the 360 windmill dunks,” he added. When it was time to showcase his skills to NBA scouts, Kobe’s mastery of the fundamentals set him apart from prospects who could jump through the roof or outmuscle two or three defenders. By the time he was 17, the 6’6″ guard’s fundamentals were so good that he was ready to move on to advanced tactics. Meanwhile, his contemporaries were stuck working on their foundations. They found out that almost everyone in the NBA could jump as high as them and was also athletic, failing to realize that mastery of the basics is the key to a successful career. The rise of European basketball This is why European ballers have been dominating the NBA. Luka Doncic and Nikola Jokic are two of the best players out of Europe today. They don’t need athleticism to dominate; they only need their superior basketball mind. Additionally, the NBA has gotten softer over the years. Kobe preferred a more physical game because it forced players to work on the basics. Instead, they rely on the referees when there’s too much contact. “I feel like European basketball is more physical than the NBA is right now,” Kobe said in 2018. “It challenges players to improve their skill level because now, if you can hand check, and things like that, you really must be fundamentally sound. You must be able to handle the ball to be able to get past defenders,” he added. Hopefully, American coaches and players will understand what Kobe meant and prioritize fundamentals over everything else. This will benefit not just the prospects but also the game of basketball. About the author Virgil Villanueva Sr. NBA Writer at Basketball Network
