=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[History of Constitutional Amendments in Pakistan - Free and ...]
Nov 12, 2025 · Of the 24 enacted constitutional amendments since 1973, ten were passed under Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) governments. The first seven were enacted during the tenure of Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto between 1974 and 1977, while three were passed under Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani between 2008 and 2012.
URL: https://fafen.org/history-of-constitutional-amendments-in-pakistan/

[Amendments to the Constitution of Pakistan - Wikipedia]
Laws of Pakistan. 14 April 2017. Archived from the original on 21 May 2017. ^ Guramani, Nadir (20 October 2024). "Senate passes 26th constitutional amendment bill". DAWN. ^ "Bill for 27th Constitutional Amendment tabled in Senate after federal cabinet's approval". ^ "Pakistan minister tables 27th constitutional amendment bill in Senate".
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amendments_to_the_Constitution_of_Pakistan

[Pakistan's 27th constitutional amendment moves it one step closer ...]
Dec 2, 2025 — On 13 November, Pakistan's President Asif Ali Zardari approved the country's 27th constitutional amendment – a move seen as dismantling the last ...
URL: https://www.chathamhouse.org/2025/12/pakistans-27th-constitutional-amendment-moves-it-one-step-closer-authoritarian-rule

[The Constitution of Pakistan and Its Amendments (1973–2025)]
Aug 2, 2025 · A clear, concise guide to Pakistan’s 1973 Constitution and its major amendments from 1973 to 2025 — what changed, why it mattered, and what the future may hold.
URL: https://lets-legislate.blogspot.com/2025/08/the-constitution-of-pakistan-and-its.html

[How would Pakistan's 27th Amendment reshape its military ...]
Nov 11, 2025 — The 27th Amendment of the constitution, if it becomes law, would in effect grant immunity from criminal prosecution to the top-most military ...
URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2025/11/11/how-would-pakistans-27th-amendment-reshape-its-military-and-courts


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [History of Constitutional Amendments in Pakistan - Free and ...] ---
No content


--- [Amendments to the Constitution of Pakistan - Wikipedia] ---
45 captures 01 Dec 2012 - 23 Feb 2026 Jan FEB Mar 23 2025 2026 2027 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Save Page Now Outlinks TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20260223093101/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amendments_to_the_Constitution_of_Pakistan


--- [Pakistan's 27th constitutional amendment moves it one step closer ...] ---
On 13 November, Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari approved the country’s 27th constitutional amendment – a move seen as dismantling the last remnants of civilian rule in Pakistan. The bill to amend the constitution was pushed through with extraordinary haste and little public discussion. It was approved by the cabinet on 8 November before being introduced to the upper house of parliament (the senate) on 10 November. On 12 November, the National Assembly ratified the amendment with a two-thirds majority amid noisy protests from opposition groups allied to Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI), the party led by the jailed former prime minister, Imran Khan. The amendment comes hot on the heels of an equally contentious constitutional amendment passed in late 2024, which has fuelled fears there could be further amendments on the horizon. New powers for the army – and the army chief While Pakistan’s long-term trajectory is uncertain, the amendment has decisively shifted the dial in favour of authoritarian rule. Of particular concern are powers granted to the army. The bill formalizes the current form of ‘hybrid’ civil-military governance, in place since 2018. A key concern is the unprecedented powers given to the army chief – a position currently occupied by Field Marshal Asim Munir. The amendment creates a new constitutional post, chief of defence forces (CDF), which will be held concurrently by the army chief. In his new role, Munir will enjoy primacy over the heads of the air and naval forces – hitherto treated on par – and will exercise full command over the Strategic Plans Division, which manages Pakistan’s nuclear stockpile. This reorganization has been justified as necessary to modernize Pakistan’s command structure. There are further professional and personal safeguards for Munir in the new amendment. The removal of the CDF requires a two-thirds parliamentary majority, while it only takes a simple majority to remove an elected prime minister. It also grants life-time immunity from prosecution to a five-star military officer – a rank currently held only by Munir, who was promoted soon after Pakistan’s short-lived conflict with India in May. The new amendment allows his tenure as army chief – a post he has held since 2022 – to be reset as CDF for a period of five years until 2030. This means he will be in office long enough to oversee (and potentially influence) Pakistan’s 2029 general elections – and is well-placed to seek a greater leadership role should he choose. Undermining the judiciary The amendment also grants sweeping powers to the executive and legislature to control the judiciary – which could pre-empt any move to question the bill’s legality. It authorizes the creation of a Federal Constitutional Court with powers to override decisions by the Supreme Court. The composition of the new court is to be determined in the first instance by the president on the advice of the prime minister. Later appointments are left to a judicial commission, where judges will be in a minority and the executive and parliament are given a decisive say. These new provisions have caused outrage. Two senior Supreme Court judges immediately announced their resignation, condemning the amendment as ‘a grave assault on the constitution’, which ‘strikes at the heart of Pakistan’s constitutional democracy’. The legal fraternity, civil rights groups and opposition parties have also expressed dismay over the acquiescence of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) and its ally, the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), to cede civilian control. Their concerns have fuelled speculation that the amendment may have been secured in exchange for personal and political gains. Under particular scrutiny are provisions that grant the president lifetime immunity from prosecution, which are said to have been included at the insistence of his PPP party to pre-empt charges being brought against him after he steps down in 2029. Zardari, who also served as president from 2008-13 and is barred from seeking a third term, faced corruption allegations in the 1990s but was never convicted. Reports also suggest that the ruling PML(N) may have agreed to the amendment only after securing guarantees from the military that ensured the tenure of its shaky government. Regional tensions could escalate Although political protests have so far been limited, further demonstrations and violence cannot be ruled out. Simmering public disquiet could also converge with and lend momentum to violent insurgencies in the border regions of Balochistan and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (KP). Both have witnessed a sharp escalation of militant violence from Baloch separatists and factions of the Pakistani Taliban (Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan – TTP), compounding fears that 2025 could be even deadlier than 2024. There are also speculations that a future 28th constitutional amendment would seek to re-organize Pakistan’s existing federal structure and restrict smaller provinces’ – such as Balochistan – share of federal revenues, which could risk further instability. The amendment’s implications for regional tension are potentially very serious. Pakistan has persistently accused Afghanistan and India of encouraging cross-border militancy by the Taliban and assisting the activities of Baloch insurgents – with Munir lending his voice to these accusations.


--- [The Constitution of Pakistan and Its Amendments (1973–2025)] ---
No content


--- [How would Pakistan's 27th Amendment reshape its military ...] ---
How would Pakistan’s 27th Amendment reshape its military and courts? New amendment would centralise power in the executive and military, prompting warnings of a weakened judiciary. Islamabad, Pakistan – Pakistan’s Senate on Monday approved a constitutional amendment that aims to bring sweeping changes to the country’s judicial system and to the military’s command structure amid criticism that it seeks to weaken oversight over the government and leaders of the nation’s powerful army. The proposed 27th Amendment eventually sailed through the Senate in a raucous evening sitting after the opposition boycotted the session. Like in the Senate, the amendment now needs to secure a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, the lower house of parliament, which is expected to vote on the draft on Tuesday afternoon. If it gets those votes, the amendment would need President Asif Ali Zardari’s signature to become law. But both the contents of the proposed amendment and the manner in which the Pakistani government has sought to push it through have sparked criticism, including from senior sitting judges, even as other experts said the changes are justified. The 27th Amendment of the constitution, if it becomes law, would in effect grant immunity from criminal prosecution to the top-most military leaders while also reshaping the military’s command structure. These would be through changes to Article 243 of Pakistan’s Constitution. Separate provisions in the amendment aim to set up a Federal Constitutional Court (FCC), among other legal reforms. But while many constitutional amendments are controversial, critics have questioned the rush with which the current amendment has been moved. Law Minister Azam Nazeer Tarar presented it in the Senate on Saturday, the same day that the cabinet approved it. Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif – who was in Baku, Azerbaijan, on a state visit along with army chief Field Marshal Asim Munir – attended the cabinet meeting virtually before his return to Islamabad on Sunday. After consultations within the government and with its allies, a revised draft was circulated in the Senate on Monday and passed the same evening. By contrast, the 26th Amendment, while also criticised by the opposition, followed months of public debate. So what is the 27th Amendment all about? What makes it so controversial? And how are its defenders justifying it? How will it change Article 243 of the constitution? Article 243 defines the relationship between Pakistan’s civilian government and the military. The revision amends Article 243 to create a new post of chief of defence forces (CDF), to be held by the army chief. This essentially gives the army chief authority also over the air force and the navy. If the amendment is passed, the post of chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee (CJCSC) would be abolished later this month. The CJCSC is currently held by four-star General Sahir Shamshad, who is due to retire on November 27. Since independence in 1947, Pakistan’s military, especially the army, has been the most powerful institution in national life. Four coups and decades of direct and indirect military rule have entrenched that influence, and the army chief has long been the country’s most powerful figure. Its current holder, Munir, became army chief in November 2022 and was promoted to five-star rank on May 20, just 10 days after the country ended its four-day conflict with India. The 27th Amendment would also grant five-star officers lifetime immunity while allowing them to “retain rank, privileges and remain in uniform for life”. Munir is only the second Pakistani military officer, after Field Marshal Ayub Khan in the 1960s, to have received the five-star designation. None of the other military branches, such as the air force or navy, has had a five-star official. The proposed amendment also creates the post of commander of the National Strategic Command (NSC), responsible, among other things, for the country’s nuclear command. The head of the NSC would be appointed only from the army in consultation with the army chief/CDF. According to the Pakistani Constitution at present, Article 248 stipulates that “no criminal proceedings whatsoever shall be instituted or continued against the president or a governor in any court during his term of office.” But once out of office, they enjoy no such privileges. Military generals currently have no such immunity. Before the 27th Amendment, the title of field marshal was considered purely honorific with no additional powers or privileges. However, the proposed changes would essentially codify the ranking as a recognised constitutional position. If the amendment passes, it would take a two-thirds majority in parliament to remove a five-star-ranked official – even though an elected government, by contrast, loses power when a simple majority in parliament votes against it. And a five-star officer would enjoy immunity from criminal prosecution for life. “Democracy does not survive where impunity is made a constitutional right,” Rida Hosain, a Lahore-based constitutional lawyer, told Al Jazeera. “It grants a nonelected army officer protections and powers that no democratically elected leader in the country has.” What are the judicial changes? The draft amendment seeks to create a permanent Federal Constitutional Court. The FCC would be headed by its own chief justice and staffed by an equal number of judges from each of Pakistan’s four provinces as well as from Islamabad. It would adjudicate in disputes between governments, either the federal government and a state government or when different state governments clash. Judges of the FCC would retire at 68, unlike Supreme Court judges, who retire at 65. The FCC chief justice’s tenure would be capped at three years. The draft also gives the president power to transfer a judge from one high court to another on the proposal of the Judicial Commission of Pakistan (JCP), the body responsible for recommending appointments to Pakistan’s superior judiciary. After the 26th Amendment was passed last year, the transfer of judges was to happen from one high court to another high court only through a presidential order. However, the judge’s consent was necessary for a transfer as were consultation with the chief justice of Pakistan and the two chief justices of respective high courts. That would change under the new revision: The president would be able to transfer a judge on the recommendation of the JCP without the consent of the concerned judge. Additionally, if a judge refuses his transfer, he would be given an opportunity to present his reasons before the JCP, and if the body finds the reasons invalid, the judge would have to retire. Hosain said the amendment would mean judges can be transferred to other jurisdictions without their consent while refusal could lead to proceedings before the Supreme Judicial Council, the body which holds judges accountable. “The fact that refusal leads to accountability proceedings being initiated is a veiled threat that weaponises administrative power to enforce compliance. It transforms an independent judicial office into one overshadowed by the constant fear of punitive or retaliatory transfer,” she added. Reema Omer, legal adviser for the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ), a Geneva-based nongovernmental organisation of judges and lawyers, said the new amendment has concerning implications, particularly in the short and medium term. “The executive will appoint the judges who will have the sole jurisdiction to hold the executive accountable,” she told Al Jazeera. “It appears this is being done to shield the existing set-up from judicial scrutiny and accountability. Also, if and when required, the FCC can be used to give constitutional cover and legitimacy to these decisions of this set-up,” Omer added. Senior sitting judges have criticised the amendment too. Mansoor Ali Shah, the second most senior judge of the Supreme Court of Pakistan (SCP), wrote in an open letter to Chief Justice Yahya Afridi on Monday stating that the FCC does not represent a “genuine reform agenda” but is instead a “political device to weaken and control the judiciary”. Calling it a “manipulation of [the] judicial process”, Shah said such a court cannot be independent. “History does not easily forgive such abdications of duty; it records them as constitutional failures of leadership and moments when silence within institutions weakened the very edifice they were meant to guard,” he wrote. What do defenders of the amendment say? The government’s rationale for bringing the changes to the constitution was presented in the draft of the amendment, in which it said the proposal stems from the increasing number of constitutional petitions being filed before the Supreme Court, which has “significantly impacted the timely disposal of regular civil and criminal cases”. Changes to Article 243, the government has said, were proposed to improve the “procedural clarity and administrative structure relating to the armed forces”. Some experts agreed. Hafiz Ahsaan Ahmad Khokhar, an advocate of the Supreme Court, said a permanent FCC would provide “focused expertise and timely adjudication”. “It is empowered to interpret the constitution, resolve federal-provincial disputes, determine the validity of laws and render advisory opinions. This ensures focused expertise and timely adjudication,” the Islamabad-based lawyer told Al Jazeera. While the creation of the FCC will bring coherence, speed and discipline to constitutional adjudication, the introduction of the CDF office would unify strategic command and enhance coordination without disturbing the existing services’ autonomy, Khokhar argued. “Both reforms are grounded in the realities of Pakistan’s governance challenges and increasing complexity of state functions. These measures will help Pakistan evolve into a mature, rule-based democracy where judicial, civil and defence institutions perform their specialised roles in harmony,” he said. What are some of the deeper criticisms of the amendment? But these explanations have so far failed to satisfy sceptics. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) questioned the urgency with which the amendment was tabled. “The government’s haste, including the absence of any meaningful consultation with the political opposition, the wider legal fraternity and civil society, calls into question the very intention behind moving this amendment bill,” the HRCP said. Omer of the ICJ warned the amendment marked a “fundamental change” for the judiciary. “The 27th Amendment reduces the Supreme Court of Pakistan to only an appellate court. It is also no longer the ‘Supreme Court of Pakistan’ but only the ‘Supreme Court’ and its chief justice will be the CJ of the SC, not the CJ of Pakistan,” she said. The judiciary, at least in the short and medium term, will be largely beholden to the executive, according to Omer. “Any real accountability or review of the executive and parliament appears unlikely. And any relief to Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf against the wishes of the system also seems unlikely,” she added, referring to the largest opposition party, the PTI. The PTI, led by former Prime Minister Imran Khan, who has been in jail for the past two years, governed from 2018 to 2022. It was removed by a parliamentary vote of no confidence in April 2022. The party was disqualified from participating in last year’s elections, but independent candidates from the PTI nevertheless won the single largest share of seats (93) amid allegations of manipulation in the vote count, charges that the government rejected. No party secured a majority, and Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif’s Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) formed the government in coalition with the Pakistan People’s Party (PPP). Meanwhile, Hosain also cautioned that under the amendment, while the prime minister would continue to be exposed to political scrutiny and the will of elected representatives, immunity has been granted to the non-elected officials. “It institutionalises the supremacy of the uniform over the ballot,” she said. Omer pointed out that Pakistani political parties, including the PPP, now an alliance partner of the ruling PML-N, had in the past resisted constitutional protections to the military. That, she said, had now changed. “The 27th Amendment is constitutional surrender,” she said.
