=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Rached Ghannouchi - Wikipedia]
Rached Ghannouchi (Arabic: راشد الغنوشي, romanized: Rāshid al-Ghannūshī; born 22 June 1941 [1]), also spelled Rachid al-Ghannouchi or Rached el-Ghannouchi, is a Tunisian politician, [2] the co-founder of the Ennahdha Party and serving as its intellectual leader. [3] He was born Rashad Khriji (راشد الخريجي). [4] Ghannouchi was named one of Time 's 100 Most Influential ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rached_Ghannouchi

[Jamnalal Bajaj Award for Tunisian politico | Mumbai news]
A Tunisian politician, who is promoting Gandhian values in his country, was among those felicitated at the 39th Jamnalal Bajaj Awards 2016 on Monday. Mumbai, India - Nov. 7, 2016: (L to R) Dr ...
URL: https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jamnalal-bajaj-award-for-tunisian-politico/story-Lq0PGKW2k4Ec87rJHQwOxL.html

[Tunisian leader presented Jamnalal Bajaj award - The Hindu]
Dec 2, 2016 · Sheikh Ghannouchi, leader of Ennandha Party, Tunisia’s largest political party, was presented the Jamnalal Bajaj Foundation’s international award for promoting Gandhian values outside India on ...
URL: https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/mumbai/Tunisian-leader-presented-Jamnalal-Bajaj-award/article16439634.ece

[Rached Ghannouchi - Jamnalal Bajaj Award 2016 Recipient - Promoting ...]
Sheikh Rached Ghannouchi (President, Ennahdha Party, Tunisia), received the award for Outstanding Contribution in Promoting Gandhian Values Outside India at the Jamnalal Bajaj Awards 2016, held on 7th November, 2016 at 6:00 pm at Jamshed Bhabha Theatre, NCPA, in Mumbai.
URL: https://jamnalalbajajawards.org/awards/archives/2016/international/rached-ghannouchi

[Rached Ghannouchi - The Muslim 500]
Ennahda is a political party based on Islamic values and supports the concept of a mul­ti-party democracy. In 2012 he received the Chatham House Prize for “the successful compromises each achieved during Tunisia’s democratic transition” and in 2016 he received the Jamnalal Bajaj Award for “promoting Gandhian values outside India”.
URL: https://themuslim500.com/profiles/rached-ghannouchi/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Rached Ghannouchi - Wikipedia] ---
Rached Ghannouchi (Arabic: راشد الغنوشي, romanized: Rāshid al-Ghannūshī; born 22 June 1941), also spelled Rachid al-Ghannouchi or Rached el-Ghannouchi, is a  Tunisian politician, the co-founder of the Ennahdha Party and serving as its intellectual leader. He was born Rashad Khriji (راشد الخريجي).
Ghannouchi was named one of Time's 100 Most Influential People in the World in 2012 and Foreign Policy's Top 100 Global Thinkers and was awarded the Chatham House Prize in 2012 (alongside Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki) by Prince Andrew, Duke of York, for "the successful compromises each achieved during Tunisia's democratic transition". In 2016, he received the Jamnalal Bajaj Award for "promoting Gandhian values outside India". On 13 November 2019, Ghannouchi was elected Speaker of the Assembly of the Representatives of the People. Ghannouchi narrowly survived a vote of no confidence after 97 MPs voted against him on 30 July 2020, falling short of 109 needed to oust him as Speaker of the House.


--- [Jamnalal Bajaj Award for Tunisian politico | Mumbai news] ---
Jamnalal Bajaj Award for Tunisian politico Sheikh Rashid Ghannouchi, president of Ennahda party of Tunisia, was awarded for Promoting Gandhian Values Outside India A Tunisian politician, who is promoting Gandhian values in his country, was among those felicitated at the 39th Jamnalal Bajaj Awards 2016 on Monday. Sheikh Rashid Ghannouchi, president of Ennahda party of Tunisia, who was awarded for Promoting Gandhian Values Outside India, said he was influenced by the “strategy” Gandhi chose to help India gain independence. “Violence is a problem and needs to be dealt with at the earliest. We need Gandhi and his principles now more than before,” he said. “Reaction to violence eases your task. Not succumbing to the temptation of violence was what our non-violence revolution was about.” Justice (retired) Dr Chandrashekhar Dharmadhikari was the chief guest at the function and did the felicitation honours as finance Minister Arun Jaitley cancelled the visit. The awards were presented to four personalities in four different categories. “Before Gandhiji was assassinated, and after the country gained political freedom, all 18 programmes he conducted were for ‘Swarajya’-- which is good governance,” Dr Dharmadhikari said, adding, “Gandhiji never used words like freedom and independence.” Mohan Hirabhai Hiralal received the award for ‘Outstanding contribution in the field of Constructive Work’. He said, “In a race of upmanship and progress, the rift between poor and rich has gone beyond control. Violence and terrorism has become a major obstacle.” Dr Nannapaneni Manga Devi received the award for ‘Development and Welfare of Women and Children’ while Bonbehari Vishnu Nimbkar received the award for ‘Application of Science and Technology for Rural Development’. Stay updated with all the Breaking News and Latest News from Mumbai. Click here for comprehensive coverage of top Cities including Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad, and more across India along with Stay informed on the latest happenings in World News.


--- [Tunisian leader presented Jamnalal Bajaj award - The Hindu] ---
Sheikh Ghannouchi, leader of Ennandha Party, Tunisia’s largest political party, was presented the Jamnalal Bajaj Foundation’s international award for promoting Gandhian values outside India on Monday. Mr. Ghannouchi played a key role in guiding Tunisia from acrimony between Islamists and secularists towards a stable democracy using Gandhian values. Mohan Hirabai Hiralal, founder and convenor of Vrikshamitra, was honoured for outstanding contribution in the field of Constructive Work. He worked for village empowerment in Menda Lekha in Gadchiroli, which became the first village in India to exercise community rights to harvest bamboo under the Forest Rights Act. The award for application of science and technology for rural development was presented to BonBehari Vishnu Nimbkar, founder of Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute, known for pioneering work in research and development in animal husbandry and agriculture. The award for development and welfare of women and children was presented to Dr. Nannapaneni Manga Devi, founder secretary of Sri Venkateswara Bala Kuteer and Chetana Charitable Trust. Each category carries a cash prize of Rs. 10 lakh. Published - November 08, 2016 12:00 am IST


--- [Rached Ghannouchi - Jamnalal Bajaj Award 2016 Recipient - Promoting ...] ---
Sheikh Rached Ghannouchi is the President of the Ennahdha Party, the largest political party in Tunisia. His perseverance and ability to engage with the viewpoints of other party groups in Tunisia has guided his party to adopt a modern, forward-looking constitution and peaceful transitions of power, leading to the establishment of a durable democracy in Tunisia. Sheikh Ghannouchi was born in a modest farmer’s family in Gabes in Southeastern Tunisia. He completed his early education in his village, after which he studied an Islamic curriculum in Gabes and Tunis in the Zaytouna College and University. Sheikh Ghannouchi went to Egypt, Syria and France for further studies. In June 1981, Sheikh Ghannouchi formed the Islamic Tendency Movement known in Tunisia by its French acronym, MTI, which aimed to reform Islam and to revive Tunisian society in the intellectual, social, political, cultural and educational spheres. From the beginning of his political career, Sheikh Ghannouchi has a very progressive approach to women’s participation in public life and pursues that their participation is essential. Commitment to women’s rights was included in the Founding Declaration of the MTI issued in June 1981. It is due to the strategic decisions made by the Ennahdha leadership that Tunisia has managed to preserve the achievements of the 2011 revolution and remain an island of democracy in a sea of autocratic regimes in the Arab world. Tunisia is the only Arab country to have made such a peaceful democratic transition. As a result, Tunisians of all political and ideological persuasions now live at peace and advance to mutual understanding. Thus, Sheikh Rached Ghannouchi has produced a political transformation in Tunisia by guiding it through a difficult time of transition from an unstable, polarized and acrimonious context towards a durable democracy; by using Gandhian methods of tolerance and empathy to other’s views, forgiveness to acts of transgression and being flexible in negotiations. He has repeatedly displayed a generous spirit of accommodation in the larger interests of the nation, and emerged from great oppression to become a champion of broadmindedness and democracy.


--- [Rached Ghannouchi - The Muslim 500] ---
Ghannouchi is one of the world’s leading Islamic thinkers and one of the most influential Arab politicians in the post-Arab Spring period. Authoring over 20 books, he has led a life filled with imprisonment, exile, and governance. Ghannouchi is one of the world’s leading Islamic thinkers and one of the most influential Arab politicians in the post-Arab Spring period. Authoring over 20 books, he has led a life filled with imprisonment, exile, and governance. Birth: 1 January 1941 (Age: 85) Source of Influence: Political, Scholarly Influence: President of Ennahda Party School of Thought: Sunni Status: Featured in current year Ghannouchi is one of the world’s leading Islamic thinkers and one of the most influential Arab politicians in the post-Arab Spring period. Authoring over 20 books, he has led a life filled with imprisonment, exile, and governance. Politics: Ghannouchi co-founded Ennahda Movement (‘Renaissance’) in the 1970s and was imprisoned several times before being forced into exile. Ennahda is a political party based on Islamic values and supports the concept of a multi-party democracy. In 2012 he received the Chatham House Prize for “the successful compromises each achieved during Tunisia’s democratic transition” and in 2016 he received the Jamnalal Bajaj Award for “promoting Gandhian values outside India”. Post-Arab Spring: With the fall of President Ben Ali, Ghannouchi returned to Tunisia in January 2011 having spent 20 years in exile. He led the Ennahda Party to victory in the October 2011 national elections. In 2014, Ghannouchi quit government and handed power over to a technocratic government. When elections were held later that year, Ennahda, without Ghannouchi leading them, came second to the Nidaa Tounes party. The 2019 elections produced a deeply fragmented parliament with the government collapsing just five months into its term. Ghannouchi, who was elected speaker of parliament, narrowly won a vote of confidence in July 2020. Imprisonment Again: Since 2021, following President Kais Saied’s suspension of parliament and consolidation of power, Ghannouchi has been targeted by the judiciary. He was arrested in April 2023. In February 2024, he was sentenced to three years in prison, then in February 2025, in a major new verdict, he was handed an additional 22 years in prison for alleged conspiracy linked to a media-PR firm case and in July 2025 a court added yet another 14-year sentence on charges of plotting against state security.
