=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

["Dumpster fire" is 2016 American Dialect Society word of the year]
JW MARRIOTT, AUSTIN, TX—JAN. 6—In its 27th annual words of the year vote, the American Dialect Society voted for dumpster fire as the Word of the Year for 2016. Defined as "an exceedingly disastrous or chaotic situation," the term dumpster fire was selected as best representing the public discourse and preoccupations of the past year.
URL: https://americandialect.org/dumpster-fire-is-2016-american-dialect-society-word-of-the-year/

[List of American Dialect Society's Words of the Year - Wikipedia]
ADS logo The American Dialect Society's Word of the Year (WotY [a]) are voted at the January American Dialect Society conference. The first year for which the word of the year was voted ("bushlips") by the ADS was 1990. [2] Sam Corbin, a words and language writer for The New York Times, comparing the ADS WOTY with the likes from prominent dictionaries, wrote that "the American Dialect Society ...
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_American_Dialect_Society%27s_Words_of_the_Year

['Dumpster Fire' Is the Word of the Year for 2016 | TIME]
Many outfits choose a "word of the year" before the year is actually over. But not the American Dialect Society, the organization that started the tradition. Its members wait until January to ...
URL: https://time.com/4627056/dumpster-fire-2016-word-of-the-year/

[All of the Words of the Year, 1990 to Present - American Dialect]
These are all of the words-of-the-year winners from the American Dialect Society, from the year the vote was first held, 1990, to today. The vote takes place at our annual conference each January.
URL: https://americandialect.org/woty/all-of-the-words-of-the-year-1990-to-present/

[How 'Dumpster Fire' Became 2016's Word of the Year]
Jan 10, 2017 — The American Dialect Society just named "dumpster fire"—and the two emoji that represent it—its Word of the Year ...
URL: https://www.wired.com/2017/01/word-of-year-dumpster-fire/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- ["Dumpster fire" is 2016 American Dialect Society word of the year] ---
JW MARRIOTT, AUSTIN, TX—JAN. 6—In its 27th annual words of the year vote, the American Dialect Society voted for dumpster fire as the Word of the Year for 2016. Defined as “an exceedingly disastrous or chaotic situation,” the term dumpster fire was selected as best representing the public discourse and preoccupations of the past year. Presiding at the Jan. 6 voting session were ADS Executive Secretary Allan Metcalf of MacMurray College and Ben Zimmer, chair of the New Words Committee of the American Dialect Society. Zimmer is also the language columnist for the Wall Street Journal. As a metaphor for a situation that is out of control or poorly handled, dumpster fire came into prominence in 2016, very frequently in the context of the U.S. presidential campaign. It evokes an image of an uncontrolled blaze in a dumpster, a large trash receptacle that originated as a proprietary name. Dumpster was in commercial use beginning in the 1930s before becoming genericized. The expression came to be used metaphorically, a rough equivalent of train wreck, chiefly on sports talk radio, before being circulated in wider use as a highly negative term for such events as the 2016 campaign season. On Twitter and other social media, the “trashcan” and “fire” emoji were combined to provide a visual representation: 🗑🔥. “As 2016 unfolded, many people latched on to dumpster fire as a colorful, evocative expression to verbalize their feelings that the year was shaping up to be a catastrophic one,” Zimmer said. “In pessimistic times, dumpster fire served as a darkly humorous summation of how many viewed the year’s events.” Word of the Year is interpreted in its broader sense as “vocabulary item”—not just words but phrases. The words or phrases do not have to be brand-new, but they have to be newly prominent or notable in the past year. The vote is the longest-running such vote anywhere, the only one not tied to commercial interests, and the word-of-the-year event up to which all others lead. It is fully informed by the members’ expertise in the study of words, but it is far from a solemn occasion. Members in the 128-year-old organization include linguists, lexicographers, etymologists, grammarians, historians, researchers, writers, editors, students, and independent scholars. In conducting the vote, they act in fun and do not pretend to be officially inducting words into the English language. Instead, they are highlighting that language change is normal, ongoing, and entertaining. In a companion vote, sibling organization the American Name Society voted “Aleppo” as Name of the Year for 2016 in its twelfth annual name-of-the-year contest. Read the full press release, including all winners, candidates, and vote tallies for all candidates.


--- [List of American Dialect Society's Words of the Year - Wikipedia] ---
The American Dialect Society's Word of the Year (WotY) are voted at the January American Dialect Society conference. The first year for which the word of the year was voted ("bushlips") by the ADS was 1990.
Sam Corbin, a words and language writer for The New York Times, comparing the ADS WOTY with the likes from prominent dictionaries, wrote that "the American Dialect Society celebrates linguistic variation to an almost absurd degree".
Starting with about 30 society members in early years, as of 2023 the vote drew some 300 participants. Recently the event consists of two parts: the live nominating session, which culls the nominations open to public a month in advance, and the live vote.


--- ['Dumpster Fire' Is the Word of the Year for 2016 | TIME] ---
Many outfits choose a “word of the year” before the year is actually over. But not the American Dialect Society, the organization that started the tradition. Its members wait until January to cast votes in person at an annual meeting. And with the benefit of complete hindsight, this eminent group of linguists and lexicographers looked back at the previous twelve months and chose dumpster fire. “As a metaphor for a situation that is out of control or poorly handled, dumpster fire came into prominence in 2016,” the organization wrote in a press release, “very frequently in the context of the U.S. presidential campaign.” Other selections sent similar messages about how the year will be remembered, as a time of turmoil and disbelief. Oxford selected post-truth. Dictionary.com chose xenophobia. Merriam-Webster chose surreal. As a point of comparison, Oxford playfully chose an emoji as the word of the year for 2015, the one crying “tears of joy” (😂). “As 2016 unfolded, many people latched on to dumpster fire as a colorful, evocative expression to verbalize their feelings that the year was shaping up to be a catastrophic one,” said Ben Zimmer, a sociolinguist who presided over the vote. It is a term the people apparently turn to, he added, “in pessimistic times.” In addition to voting for a word of the year for the 27th time, the society also chose winners in several subcategories. The full list of winners is below. Word of the Year: dumpster fire—”an exceedingly disastrous or chaotic situation” Political Word of the Year: post-truth—“belonging to a time in which facts matter less than beliefs and emotions” Digital Word of the Year: @ (as a verb)—”reply on Twitter using the @ symbol” Slang Word of the Year: woke—”socially aware or enlightened” Most Useful Word of the Year: gaslight—”psychologically manipulate a person into questioning their own sanity” Most Creative Word of the Year: laissez-fairydust—magical effect brought upon by laissez-faire economics Euphemism of the Year: locker-room banter—lewd, vulgar talk (used by Trump to downplay Access Hollywood tape), euphemizing discourse about harassment of and aggression toward women “WTF” Word of the Year: bigly—in a significant manner (from widespread mishearing of Trump’s use of big-league) Hashtag of the Year: #NoDAPL—protest against construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline Emoji of the Year: 🔥—fire (meaning “lit” exciting)


--- [All of the Words of the Year, 1990 to Present - American Dialect] ---
These are all of the words-of-the-year winners from the American Dialect Society, from the year the vote was first held, 1990, to today. The vote takes place at our annual conference each January. Look for conference information on this site 2025 | 2024 | 2023 | 2022 | 2021 | 2020 | 2019; Word of the Decade | 2018 | 2017 | 2016 | 2015 | 2014 | 2013 | 2012 | 2011 | 2010 | 2009; Word of the Decade | 2008 | 2007 | 2006 | 2005 | 2004 | 2003 | 2002 | 2001 | 2000 | Words of the Millennium, Century, and Decade | 1999 | 1998 | 1997 | 1996 | 1995 | 1994 | 1993 | 1992 | 1991 | 1990 If there are numbers after a word and its definition, they represent the final vote tallies at the annual meeting. If there are two numbers separated by a forward slash, then there was a runoff vote and each number represents a different vote. Our criteria for words of the year are that the words be: — demonstrably new or newly popular in the year in question — widely and/or prominently used in the year in question — indicative or reflective of the popular discourse — not a peeve or a complaint about overuse or misuse 2025 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ slop, n: low-quality, high-quantity content, most typically produced by generative AI; also as a combining form for anything lacking value produced in mass quantities (83/161) the algorithm, n: essentialized view of online algorithms as a unitary, deterministic entity (17) amphifa, n: playful resistance movement, as seen in “Amphibians Against Fascism” in Portland (amphibian + antifa) (3) DOGE, v: eliminate or remove due to inefficiency claims from the Department of Government Efficiency (as with federal agencies like USAID and DOGE itself); often get DOGEd (9) rage-bait, n: content that intentionally evokes rage, often in a taunting way (67/111) reheat nachos, v: redo something (as music), often in an inferior fashion (39) 6-7: interjection containing little semantic content, originating from “Doot Doot (6 7)” by Skrilla (45) MOST USEFUL ☛ “that’s AI”: statement of distrust when determining that something presented as real (as an image) is in fact AI-generated (104) clock, v: notice or recognize, often calling attention to a subtext (28) diabolical, adj: evil in a fun or shocking way (can be used as an exclamation) (5) rage-bait, n: content that intentionally evokes rage, often in a taunting way (51) recession indicator, n: signal of an impending economic downturn, often attributed humorously to cultural and fashion trends (31) rot, v: lounge and scroll social media (evoking brainrot and bedrot) (26) valid crashout, n: justified mental breakdown (19) MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ chopped, adj: ugly, undesirable (128) glaze, v: effusively compliment in a cringeworthy fashion (23) performative male, n: man who superficially appeals to progressive or sensitive ideals through aesthetic presentation (9) unc, n: old person (originally an AAVE shortening of uncle but now gender-neutral (8) vibe-coding, n: use of an AI agent to code or assist in coding by using natural-language prompts (93) POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ icy conditions, n: coded phrase alerting that ICE has been spotted in a neighborhood (83/153) disappear, v.: remove, abduct, or arrest (a person), as by a government agent (9) DOGE, v: eliminate or remove due to inefficiency claims from the Department of Government Efficiency (as with federal agencies like USAID and DOGE itself); often get DOGEd (49) Kavanaugh stop, n: immigration status check in which a person is detained based on social identifiers (referring to Justice Kavanaugh’s opinion in Noem v. Vasquez Perdomo) (70/110) TACO, n: Trump Always Chickens Out (as in TACO trade) (25) vice-signal, v: publicly promote negative or controversial views; antonym of virtue-signal (23) DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ slop, n: low-quality, high-quantity content, most typically produced by generative AI; also as a combining form for anything lacking value produced in mass quantities (150) the algorithm, n: essentialized view of online algorithms as a unitary, deterministic entity (40) clanker, n: pejorative term for AI agents and robots (69) Great Meme Reset, n: hypothetical youth movement to reset memes on January 1, 2026 (1) Italian brainrot, n: mock-Italian memes with generative AI characters (like Bombardiro Crocodilo and Ballerina Cappuccina) (9) INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ 6-7: interjection containing little semantic content, originating from “Doot Doot (6 7)” by Skrilla (156) big back, n: a person’s large body, or a large-bodied person (also bigbackery, big back behavior) (12) body tea, n: attractive physical appearance (reinterpretation of her body tea) (1) face card, n: undeniable good looks (as in face card never declined) (8) (X), I fear: indication of mock apprehension, used for ironic effect (51) smoke, n: drama or aggression (as in don’t want no smoke) (13) MOST CREATIVE WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ reheat nachos, v: redo something (as music), often in an inferior fashion (131/165) amphifa, n: playful resistance movement, as seen in “Amphibians Against Fascism” in Portland (amphibian + antifa) (94/96) fridge cigarette, n: euphemism for an ice-cold Diet Coke or similar drink taken from a refrigerator as a refreshment (25) lowkirkenuinely, adv: in a lowkey genuine manner (lowkey + Kirk + genuinely), also flowkirkenuinely (flow state + Kirk + genuinely) (29) 2024 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ rawdog: to undertake without usual protection, preparation, or comfort (extension of earlier meaning ‘to have sex without a condom’) 145/208 brat: someone who exudes a confident, hedonistic attitude (in the style of Charli XCX); also adj./attrib. as in brat summer crash out: to act irrationally or impulsively; to reach one’s limit; also crashout: a person characterized by extreme emotional reactivity 37 cooked: totally exhausted or broken beyond repair; humiliated, outperformed or swiftly defeated; hopeless, desperate 31 sanewashing: downplaying or restating extreme political rhetoric to make it more palatable, esp. referring to whitewashing media coverage 54/77 yap: to talk excessively or enthusiastically (valued negatively or positively); also yapper (enthusiastic talker), yapanese (incomprehensible chatter) 17 MOST USEFUL ☛ lock in: to enter a state of deep focus and concentration 134 bedrot, bedrotting: the act of lying in bed and avoiding daily responsibilities (also, more positively, hurkle-durkle, n. or v.) 21 cooked: totally exhausted or broken beyond repair; humiliated, outperformed or swiftly defeated; hopeless, desperate 31 crash out: to act irrationally or impulsively; to reach one’s limit; also crashout: a person characterized by extreme emotional reactivity 37 eat (esp. in past tense ate): to execute, accomplish, or complete something remarkably well; also devour, 4+4 = ate 53 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ unserious: lacking a properly serious attitude, often as a dismissive putdown 107/168 aura: charismatic presence, often associated with athletes (also aura points) 76 girlypop: fun, trustworthy female friend (also as an adj.: cute, pretty, or stereotypically girly) 14 NIL: name, image, and likeness (means for student athletes to receive financial compensation) 87/130 tariffied: afraid of the consequences of excessive tariffs 6 POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ Luigi: used in reference to Luigi Mangione, charged in deadly shooting of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, as in Luigi-pilled, Luigification, Luigi intensifies; also as a verb (to get Luigi’ed) 116/165 bleach blonde bad built butch body: epithet used by Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D-Tex.) toward Rep. Majorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) after Greene insulted Crockett 43 broligarchy: political structure controlled by a small group of powerful men, especially those considered “techbros” 16 burrito taxi: mocking term in arguments about the rising prices of using food delivery apps, ridiculing the idea that it is a sign of inflation 2 lib out: to have false or unrealistic hope and positivity for the future from embracing mainstream Democratic politics 8 sanewashing: downplaying or restating extreme political rhetoric to make it more palatable, esp. referring to whitewashing media coverage 77/128 weird: strange, bizarre, out of step with the mainstream (as used by Tim Walz and other Democrats about Donald Trump and J.D. Vance) 22 DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ brainrot: mental deterioration from consumption of media/content held to have no redeeming value; also the media itself 189 AI slop: content generated by artificial intelligence of little value, often intended to flood search results 69 cope, n: belief or practice that someone uses to emotionally or intellectually deal with a negative circumstance or situation 9 tradwife: wife who fulfills notions of traditional gender roles, often in line with the white supremacist subculture 11 Xit, Xodus: mass departure of users from Twitter/X 10 INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ rawdog: to undertake without usual protection, preparation, or comfort (extension of earlier meaning ‘to have sex without a condom’) 140 cooked: totally exhausted or broken beyond repair; humiliated, outperformed or swiftly defeated; hopeless, desperate 31 50 mewing: jaw-strengthening technique developed by British orthodontist John Mew; a do-it-yourself facial restructuring method (also jawmaxxing) 3 mog: to outdo in attractiveness or appearance; to assert dominance based on physical appearance (derived from AMOG, ‘alpha male of group’) 1 W, adj.: being the best of its kind or an excellent instance of something (as in W rizz or W crashout) 10 yap: to talk excessively or enthusiastically (valued negatively or positively); also yapper (enthusiastic talker), yapanese (incomprehensible chatter) 76 MOST CREATIVE WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ “the X I X-ed”: phrasal template with an invented irregular verb, used as a playful intensifier (as in “the gasp I gusped/guspt,” “the scream I scrempt”) 173 broligarchy: political structure controlled by a small group of powerful men, especially those considered “techbros” 16 in da clerb, we all fam: viral quotation used to facetiously assert solidarity, derived from a Broad City sketch 9 -maxxing (combining form): enhancement to “maximize” one’s attractiveness or appeal (as in looksmaxxing, jawmaxxing) 93 MOST FUN WHILE IT LASTED WORD OF THE YEAR (special category) ☛ brat: someone who exudes a confident, hedonistic attitude (in the style of Charli XCX); also adj./attrib. as in brat summer 148 demure: modest and reserved in outlook or appearance, as popularized on TikTok by lifestyle and beauty influencer Jools Lebron 66 hawk tuah: the sound or action of spitting, esp. in preparation for oral sex; popularized by Hailey Welch in a viral video 53 hold space: to create a safe space for a person, concept, or thing; to be present without judgment 18 2023 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ enshittification: worsening of a digital platform through reduction in quality of service 68/92/158 babygirl: older male fictional character or celebrity seen as emotionally damaged, helpless, or vulnerable 10 ceasefire: rallying cry for those seeking a stoppage of hostilities in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict 29 context: word invoked by presidents of Harvard, MIT, and Penn to questions at a House hearing about prohibiting speech on campus 45/63 (derogatory): parenthetical comment humorously appended after a word that might not be expected to be derogatory 43/73/121 girlie: lighthearted and affectionate term of address for young women (also used in a broader more gender-inclusive way) 20 Kenaissance: renaissance in the wake of the Barbie movie’s depiction of Ken (also Kenergy, Kenough) 14 let (someone) cook: allow a person to do something that they are good at without interference 14 stochastic parrot: large language model that can generate plausible synthetic text without having any understanding 37/52 MOST USEFUL/MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ (derogatory): parenthetical comment humorously appended after a word that might not be expected to be derogatory 116 cunty: having an audaciously exceptional appearance or displaying fierce femininity (from LGBTQ ballroom culture) 26 enshittification: worsening of a digital platform through reduction in quality of service 37 era: a personal period defined by a noteworthy style or behavior (esp. in in my X era) 30 girl/boy X: way of doing something associated with a gender, as in girl dinner, girl math, boy math 55 mother: (adj.) admirable (as a term of endearment); (v.) to perform something admirably (from LGBTQ ballroom culture) 16 POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ 🍉 (watermelon emoji): symbol of Palestinian solidarity used on social media 103/143 context: word invoked by presidents of Harvard, MIT, and Penn to questions at a House hearing about prohibiting speech on campus 61 hot labor summer/hot union summer: summer of 2023, when a number of unions went on strike 106/133 I/P: shorthand for the Israeli/Palestinian conflict 1 DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ enshittification: worsening of a digital platform through reduction in quality of service 111 chat: collective term of address for those participating in a streamer’s chat 59 gamers: second-person plural term of address, as on a gaming livestream 11 ice cream so good: response by TikTok streamer Pinkydoll to receiving an ice cream emoji 11 millennial pause: pause by a millennial at the beginning of a recorded video, as opposed to the Gen Z shake (shaky video at the start of recording) 45 skibidi: nonsense word popularized by the YouTube animated series Skibidi Toilet 46 INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ let (someone) cook: allow a person to do something that they are good at without interference 90/142 babygirl: older male fictional character or celebrity seen as emotionally damaged, helpless, or vulnerable 39 (derogatory): parenthetical comment humorously appended after a word that might not be expected to be derogatory 75 /127 gyat, gyatt: exclamation expressing surprise, excitement, or admiration (esp. on seeing someone with a large butt) 12 rizz: charm or attractiveness, now used as a combining form or blend component (rizzler, pre-rizz-toric) 60 ACRONYM/INITIALISM OF THE YEAR (ad-hoc category) ☛ FAFO (fuck around and find out): warning that foolish actions will result in unwanted consequences 177 AITA (am I the asshole?): question asked to an online audience (as on Reddit) to determine if the person is at fault in a situation 47 IYKYK (if you know, you know): indication that something is a reference understood by a select group 14 LFG (let’s fucking go): exhortation to action 26 MOOP (matter out of place): waste material left behind at an event (esp. Burning Man) 12 AI-RELATED WORD THE YEAR (ad-hoc category) ☛ stochastic parrot: large language model that can generate plausible synthetic text without having any understanding 106/147 ChatGPT: name for OpenAI’s chatbot, now becoming generic for generative AI systems 111/130 hallucination: AI-generated response containing false information presented as factual 10 LLM (large language model): machine-learning model trained on a vast text corpus 6 prompt engineer: expert in developing text prompts for generative AI models 40 MOST CREATIVE WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ Kenaissance: renaissance in the wake of the Barbie movie’s depiction of Ken (also Kenergy, Kenough) 100/161 assholocene: the current era of human history, defined by the ubiquity of assholes 42 delulu: delusion, as in delulu is the solulu (delusion is the solution) 72/109 tush push: quarterback sneak for short yardage perfected by the Philadelphia Eagles (also called the brotherly shove) 64 EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR ☛ structurally restrictive housing: solitary confinement (rebranded by the New York City Department of Correction) 101 artificial intelligence: computerized simulation of human intelligence that is not actually intelligent 60 effective altruism: movement ostensibly to benefit humanity, used as an excuse for spending other people’s money 57 free bird: alternative to “empty-nester” promoted by Gwyneth Paltrow 17 stenographer: journalist seen as uncritically reporting statements made by officials and others in power 22 2022 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ -ussy: suffix from “pussy” (as in “bussy” = “boy pussy,” now humorously attached to many words); also -ussification: the process of creating new blended words with the -ussy suffix 108 Dark Brandon: sinister, powerful alter ego of Joe Biden (play on “Let’s Go Brandon”) 19 quiet quitting: doing no more than the minimum required for a job 32 rizz: effortless attractiveness or style (short for “charisma”) 11 Slava Ukraini: “Glory to Ukraine!” (said in solidarity with Ukrainian resistance) 25 special military operation: Russian designation for invasion of Ukraine 23 MOST USEFUL/MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ quiet quitting: doing no more than the minimum required for a job 90/115 climate criminal: celebrity who flies excessively via private jet 12 longtermism: ethical position that prioritizes improving the long-term future 5 nepo baby: celebrity who is the child of a celebrity 27 rizz: effortless attractiveness or style (short for “charisma”) 84/92 POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ Dark Brandon: sinister, powerful alter ego of Joe Biden (play on “Let’s Go Brandon”) 110 Dobbs: Supreme Court decision reversing abortion rights (as in “post-Dobbs”) 38 pink trickle/splash: result of Republican “red wave” in midterms not materializing 19 Slava Ukraini: “Glory to Ukraine!” (said in solidarity with Ukrainian resistance) 18 Woman, Life, Freedom: rallying cry for women’s rights in Iran and elsewhere 24 DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ -dle: suffix for Wordle-like games (Heardle, Absurdle, Foodle, Worldle, Redactle, etc.) 84/118 BFFR: initialism for “be fucking for real” 14 chief twit: self-designation of Elon Musk after acquiring Twitter 4 chronically online: spending so much time online that it warps one’s sense of reality 30 crypto rug pull: scam in which a fraudulent development team pumps a cryptocurrency token before disappearing with the funds, leaving investors with a valueless asset 8 touch grass: go outside (antidote to spending too much time online) 64/87 -verse: online world, as in Metaverse (Facebook’s VR platform) or Fediverse (federated servers on Mastodon) 8 INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ it’s giving (X): description of something exuding a particular vibe or energy (from drag culture) 94/126 dickriding: currying favor or sucking up to someone 22 (the) ick: feeling of disgust about one’s date 8 menty b: mental breakdown 29 rizz: effortless attractiveness or style (short for “charisma”) 67/84 MOST CREATIVE WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ -ussy: suffix from “pussy” (as in “bussy” = “boy pussy,” now humorously attached to many words) 163 blorbo (from my shows): beloved fictional character from television or other media 9 -dle: suffix for Wordle-like games (Heardle, Absurdle, Foodle, Worldle, Redactle, etc.) 24 moid/foid: derogatory terms for men and women in incel culture 0 short king: positive or affectionate term for a man of modest stature 18 EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR ☛ special military operation: Russian designation for invasion of Ukraine 50/121 camping: access to abortion, as used in informal networks circumventing state anti-abortion laws 37 diverse-owned: of a business, owned by members of historically underrepresented groups 7 leg booty: algospeak substitution for LGBT 52/86 pronouns: trans/nonbinary gender identities, as used in transphobic rhetoric to mock pronoun choice 31 résumé embellishment: lying about one’s accomplishments 32 SNOWCLONE/PHRASAL TEMPLATE OF THE YEAR ☛ not X: ironic framing device expressing an attitude of mock horror or incredulity 82/125 if I text you X, it means Y: explaining how to interpret an emoji or series of emojis 9 #IStandWithX: expression of solidarity 26 it’s the X for me: singling out a notable or funny aspect of something, or finding fault with someone 26 she’s/he’s a 10, but X: pointing out a negative or quirky quality of someone 28 X hits different: describing an experience that is affecting in a meaningful way 41/79 EMOJI OF THE YEAR ☛ 💀 [skull]: expressing figurative death (from laughter, frustration, etc.) 72/108 🫠 [melting face]: expressing embarrassment or dread 67/90 🫡 [saluting face]: sign of respect or solidarity 9 🫥 [dotted line face]: feeling of invisibility 8 🚩 [red flag]: signaling danger or problems 2 ⬜🟨🟩 [colored boxes]: for Wordle results 45 2021 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ insurrection: violent attempt to take control of the government, applied to the Capitol attack of Jan. 6, 2021 – 188 (36%) / 169 (53%) antiwork: position supporting the refusal to work, pushing back against labor exploitation 18 (6%) Big Lie: propagandistic distortion of truth, as in Donald Trump’s false claim that the 2020 election was “stolen” 19 (6%) Great Resignation: pandemic-era phenomenon in which workers are leaving their jobs in large numbers. 59 (18%) long Covid: lingering symptoms and health problems experienced by people after they have recovered from Covid – 5 (2%) Omicron: name assigned by the World Health Organization for a highly contagious “variant of concern” of the coronavirus 4 (1%) variant: new form of a virus, such as coronavirus, resulting from mutations 33 (10%) vax/vaxx: shortened form of vaccine, vaccination, or vaccinate, often used as combining form (as in anti-vaxxer, Hot Vax Summer, double/triple-vaxxed, vaxxed and relaxed) – 71 (22%) / 152 (47%) MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ antiwork: position supporting the refusal to work, pushing back against labor exploitation 109 (34%) / 165 (52%) endemic: describing a disease that is always present in a community or population, as some predict will be the case for Covid-19 62 (19%) Great Resignation: pandemic-era phenomenon in which workers are leaving their jobs in large numbers 89 (28%) / 153 (48%) mid: of average or poor quality, or simply decent, in the amorphous slang of Generation Z – 15 (5%) NFT: abbreviation for non-fungible token, a digital asset using blockchain technology to make a unique token, with its own identification that cannot be replicated 11 (3%) sigma male: term used in the masculinist “manosphere” for a male who is more introverted than an “alpha male” but is still considered successful 5 (2%) shrinkflation: reduction of the size or quantity of a product while the price remains the same or even rises 28 (9%) MOST USEFUL ☛ hard pants: pants that lack an elastic waistband or stretchy fabric, unlike the “soft pants” favored by those working from home during the pandemic 124 (39%) / 178 (55%) bussin’: extremely good, such as food that is indescribably tasty 31 (10%) tone indicator: code such as “/srs” or “/lol” that indicates the tone (serious, ironic, humorous) of online discourse 78 (24%) vibe: mood or emotion, such as the positive feelings evoked by a piece of music; to exult in one’s good feelings. 89 (28%) / 144 (45%) POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ insurrection: violent attempt to take control of the government, applied to the Capitol attack of Jan. 6, 2021 67 (33%) / 124 (59%) Big Lie: propagandistic distortion of truth, as in Donald Trump’s false claim that the 2020 election was “stolen” 70 (34%) / 87 (41%) CRT/critical race theory: framework for analyzing how racism is embedded in law and policies, exploited as a scare tactic by politicians favoring “anti-CRT” legislation 27 (13%) mandate: official or authoritative command, as in politically contentious “mask mandates” and “vaccine mandates” 41 (20%) DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ #FreeBritney: hashtag for those supporting the release of Britney Spears from the conservatorship set up by her father 13 years ago 125 (39%) / 215 (68%) bones day/no bones day: prediction of whether a day will be good or bad (based on Jonathan Graziano’s TikTok videos of his dog Noodle getting up in the morning) 58 (18%) girlboss: a confident, capable woman pursuing business ambitions; also used in a derogatory fashion for a woman cynically combining feminism with careerism 26 (8%) horny jail: imagined place a person is sent to as punishment for being excessively sexual on social media 22 (7%) parasocial: describing a relationship that a person imagines with someone whom they do not actually know, such as a celebrity on an online platform 61 (19%) / 102 (32%) the ___ urge to: ironic framing device to describe stereotypical tendencies and traits, as in “the feminine urge to…” 29 (9%) PANDEMIC-RELATED WORD OF THE YEAR (special category) ☛ boosted: having received a booster shot, as for Covid-19 (also boostered/boosterized) 108 (32%) / 192 (58%) breakthrough: describing an infection, as from coronavirus, after a person has been vaccinated 16 (5%) Delta/Omicron: Greek-letter names assigned by the World Health Organization for coronavirus “variants of concern” 10 (3%) flurona: sickness from a combination of the influenza virus and the coronavirus 4 (1%) long Covid: lingering symptoms and health problems experienced by people after they have recovered from Covid – 23 (7%) variant: new form of a virus, such as coronavirus, resulting from mutations 102 (30%) / 139 (42%) vax/vaxx: shortened form of vaccine, vaccination, or vaccinate, often used as combining form (as in anti-vaxxer, Hot Vax Summer, double/triple-vaxxed, vaxxed and relaxed) 78 (23%) FINANCIAL/ECONOMIC WORD OF THE YEAR (special category) ☛ supply chain: interconnected global system of supplying goods and services to consumers, put in jeopardy by the pandemic 133 (39%) / 194 (57%) Great Resignation: pandemic-era phenomenon in which workers are leaving their jobs in large numbers 98 (29%) / 148 (43%) NFT: abbreviation for non-fungible token, a digital asset using blockchain technology to make a unique token, with its own identification that cannot be replicated 50 (15%) SPAC: abbreviation for special purpose acquisition company, an investment vehicle that allows a company to go public without going through the traditional IPO process 1 (0%) stimmy: shortened form of stimulus, used in reference to government stimulus checks 26 (8%) stonk: deliberate misspelling of stock, used by online day traders for their investments, esp. for “meme stocks” like Gamestop (aka Gamestonk) 32 (9%) INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ yassify: to apply image filters to a person’s photo to transform it into a cartoonishly beautiful image; more generally, to make beautiful or glamorous 164 (52%) cheugy: term used by members of Generation Z to poke fun at the off-trend lifestyles and fashions of millennials 111 (35%) down bad: used to describe intense (typically sexual) desperation 16 (5%) flop era: time in which a person, such as a pop star, enters an unsuccessful period 24 (8%) MOST CREATIVE WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ Fauci ouchie: rhyming phrase for a Covid-19 vaccine, in honor of Dr. Anthony Fauci 89 (28%) / 154 (51%) chin diaper: face mask worn below the chin instead of properly covering the nose and mouth 98 (31%) / 148 (49%) copium: the rationalizations, justifications, and denial one uses to deal with a severe letdown or personal failure (a blend of cope and opium) 85 (27%) -core: productive suffix for aesthetic trends, such as gorpcore (functional outdoorsy gear), emancicore (non-restrictive clothing emphasizing freedom), and goblincore (chaotic aesthetic inspired by goblin folklore) 45 (14%) EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR ☛ unalive: term used as a substitute for “suicide” or “kill” to avoid social media filters 152 (47%) / 198 (62%) election integrity: euphemism used for voter suppression 81 (25%) / 122 (38%) glizzy: slang term for a hot dog (also used to describe fellatio, as in glizzy gobbling) 18 (6%) Let’s Go Brandon: playful euphemism for “Fuck Joe Biden,” based on a sports reporter mishearing a chant while interviewing stock-car racer Brandon Brown 50 (15%) TFG: abbreviation for “the former guy,” an expression used by President Biden to refer to his predecessor Trump without saying his name 23 (7%) 2020 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ Covid: shorthand for Covid-19, the name given to the disease caused by infection from novel coronavirus; also used more broadly to refer to the pandemic and its impacts 79 (26%) / 167 (54%) 2020: used to sum up chaotic and despondent feelings inspired by the year’s events 92 (30%) / 143 (47%) antiracism: the practice of actively working to prevent or combat racism 5(2%) Before Times: the time before the beginning of the pandemic (followed by Now Times or After Times) 7 (2%) BIPOC: acronym for Black, Indigenous and People of Color or Black and Indigenous People of Color 0 (0%) doomscrolling: obsessively scanning social media and websites for bad news 55 (18%) pandemic: epidemic over a wide area affecting a large proportion of the population 4 (1%) social distancing: keeping away from others as much as possible to prevent the spread of coronavirus 40 (13%) unprecedented: never having happened, existed, or experienced before 30 (10%) MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ antiracism: the practice of actively working to prevent or combat racism 136 (44%) / 219 (72%) BIPOC: acronym for Black, Indigenous and People of Color or Black and Indigenous People of Color 27 (9%) contactless: requiring no physical contact, to avoid transmitting disease 52 (17%) / 87 (29%) curbside: adjacent to a curb, as for pickup of goods without entering a store or restaurant 23 (7%) gigafire: a wildfire that burns at least a million acres of land 31 (10%) Zoomer: term for Generation Z, originally modeled on boomer, now highlighting their use of Zoom for remote learning and other activities 40 (13%) MOST USEFUL ☛ Before Times: the time before the beginning of the pandemic (followed by Now Times or After Times) 114 (36%) / 189 (61%) Blursday: humorous indication of difficulty in determining what day of the week it is 79 (25%) / 120 (39%) bubble/pod: terms for the group with which one remains in quarantine 71 (23%) PPE: abbreviation for personal protective equipment 16 (5%) superspreader: a patient or event responsible for spreading infection to many people 22 (11%) POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ abolish/defund: verbs used (at times hyperbolically) to call for drastic restructuring or reforming of law enforcement in the aftermath of the George Floyd police killing 235 (74%) dissent collar: jabot collar worn by Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg when issuing dissenting opinions, and worn by others in her honor after her death 34 (11%) freedumb: reckless or thoughtless invocation of “freedom,” for instance in refusing to wear a mask 19 (6%) petromasculinity: form of masculinity on display during pro-Trump highway rallies 3 (1%) red mirage/blue shift: appearance from early returns in the 2020 presidential election that voting was skewing toward Republicans before more Democratic-leaning votes were counted 27 (9%) DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ doomscrolling: obsessively scanning social media and websites for bad news 255 (81%) #BlackInTheIvory: hashtag used to amplify the voices of Black scholars and their experiences of systemic racism within academia 19 (6%) fancam: video clip made by a fan of a musical act, especially a K-Pop band, which can be used to derail an online conversation or as a form of subversive political protest; also a verb 20 (6%) sus: clipping of “suspicious” often used in the game Among Us to label a player suspected of being an impostor 13 (4%) TikToked: to be made the target of a campaign mobilizing TikTok users, as for political purposes 9 (3%) ZOOM-RELATED WORD OF THE YEAR (special 2020 category) ☛ you’re muted: refrain on Zoom to remind someone to unmute when speaking 215 (65%) oysgezoomt: fatigued or bored by Zoom (formed in Yiddish) 31 (9%) Zoombombing: disruptive intrusion on a Zoom session by online trolls 24 (7%) Zoom fatigue: exhaustion experienced by being over-exposed to Zoom 60 (18%) zumping: [Zoom + dumping] breaking up with someone via Zoom 1 (0%) PANDEMIC-RELATED WORD OF THE YEAR (special 2020 category) ☛ social distancing: keeping away from others as much as possible to prevent the spread of coronavirus 192 (58%) contact tracing: the process of identifying who may have come into contact with a person carrying an infectious disease like coronavirus 1 (0%) coronials: the coronavirus generation, for the predicted baby boom in the wake of the pandemic 10 (3%) Covid: shorthand for Covid-19, the name given to the disease caused by infection from novel coronavirus; also used more broadly to refer to the pandemic and its impacts 109 (33%) flattening the curve: the effort to slow the spread of coronavirus by taking community isolation measures 20 (6%) moronavirus: disparaging term for foolish behavior or ideas related to the coronavirus pandemic 0 (0%) SLANG/INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ the rona: playful term for “coronavirus” (also: Rona, Miss Rona, Aunt Rona) 107 (35%) / 186 (60%) covidiot: a person who foolishly ignores COVID-19 protocols 39 (13%) girls, gays, and theys: inclusive form of address encompassing female-identifying, LGBTQ, and nonbinary identities 44 (15%) poggers: term used to denote excitement, derived from a Twitch emote showing someone with a surprised expression 34 (11%) WAP: acronym for “wet-ass pussy,” from the song of that title by Cardi B and Megan Thee Stallion 82 (27%) / 127 (41%) MOST CREATIVE COMBINING FORM ☛ quaran-: as in quarantini, quaranteam, quaranbeard, quarantigue 119 (38%) / 211 (69%) corona-: as in coronasomnia, coronababies, coronacut, coronacation 54 (17%) / 96 (31%) Covid-: Covid baking, Covid fatigue, covidiot, Covid hair 25 (8%) fatigue: as in Covid fatigue, lockdown fatigue, pandemic fatigue, Zoom fatigue 37 (12%) mask-: as in maskne (acne caused by mask-wearing), maskhole, mask break 34 (11%) Zoom-: as in Zoombombing, Zoom mom, Zoom party, Zoom school 37 (12%) EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR ☛ essential (workers, labor, businesses): used for people, often underpaid, who are actually treated as expendable because they are required to work and thus risk infection from coronavirus 209 (65%) everything is cake: expression of extreme distrust, based on memes in which objects turn out to be hyper-realistic cakes 5 (2%) freedom seeds: nickname for ammunition used by the National Rifle Association 8 (3%) humaning: marketing term for a consumer-oriented approach 1 (0%) officer-involved shooting: shooting by a police officer 97 (30%) Toobin, v.: to expose oneself on Zoom in the manner of Jeffrey Toobin 4 (1%) EMOJI OF THE YEAR ☛ 😷 (face with medical mask): indicating mask-wearing during the pandemic 108 (36%) / 184 (60%) 👉👈 (two fingers touching): used to indicate shyness, hesitation, or pleading 55 (19%) 🥺 (face with pleading eyes): used for timid begging or beseeching 29 (10%) 👁👄👁 (eye mouth eye): “It is what it is,” also used to express amazement, shock, disgust, or confusion 28 (8%) ✍️ (writing hand): used for bullet-pointed lists of how to fix things 1 (0%) (emoji hugging a heart): used on Facebook for the “care” reaction 80 (27%) / 123 (40%) 2019 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ (my) pronouns: introduction for sharing one’s set of personal pronouns (“pronouns: she/her”) 161 ok boomer: retort to someone older expressing out-of-touch or condescending views 88 cancel: withdraw support from someone considered problematic or unacceptable 10 Karen: stereotype of a complaining, self-important white woman, typically a member of Generation X (also “Generation Karen”) 34 WORD OF THE DECADE (2010-2019) ☛ they: gender-neutral singular pronoun for a known person, particularly as a nonbinary identifier (“they,” “them,” themself”) 128/210 #BlackLivesMatter: expression of protest over police violence against African Americans 31 climate: used in phrases related to the impact of climate change, including “climate crisis,” “climate emergency,” and “climate strike” 39 emoji: small icon in electronic communication, used to convey information or emotional attitude, or as a playful substitution for words 1 meme: a shared cultural item in the form of a phrase, image, or video circulated online, often with humorous, creative alterations 110/143 #MeToo: expression of solidarity for women surviving sexual assault or harassment (coined by Tarana Burke) 16 opioid crisis: epidemic of opioid-related drug overdoses across the U.S. 1 selfie: a photograph that one takes of oneself, typically with a digital camera and shared on social media 1 woke: socially aware, especially about issues of racial and social justice (also used negatively to mock ostensibly enlightened attitudes) 23 POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ quid pro quo: exchange of favors (central to Trump/Ukraine impeachment scandal) 114/174 #IMPOTUS: derogatory reference to Trump (IMPeached President Of The United States) 92/146 squad: nickname for four House Democrats (Reps. Ocasio-Cortez, Omar, Pressley, Tlaib) 61 Trumpschmerz: suffering induced by constant updates about the Trump administration 41 MOST USEFUL/MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ ok boomer: retort to someone older expressing out-of-touch or condescending views 206 plant-based: made from plants, for food products marketed as meat alternatives 63 stan: to be devoted or enthusiastic about 25 zoomer: member of Generation Z 19 SLANG/INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ and I oop-: catchphrase of VSCO girls, expressing shock, surprise, or embarrassment (first used by drag queen Jasmine Masters) 142 hot girl summer: a call to live one’s best life (after Houston rapper Megan Thee Stallion) 132 zaddy: variation of “daddy” as a term of endearment for an attractive older person, typically with money 5 MOST CREATIVE ☛ nobody: : phrasal template mocking someone providing an unsolicited opinion 220 (X)-curious: interested in something 9 gerrymeandering: drawing convoluted congressional district lines for political gain 8 sksksk: keysmash exclamation, expressing laughter, awkwardness, or amazement 87 EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR ☛ people of means: rich people (used by Starbucks executive Howard Schultz to refer to himself and fellow billionaires) 110/173 freedom gas / molecules of U.S. freedom: natural gas (used by Energy Dept. officials) 123/166 Heckboy: Hellboy (used on the marquee of a Tennessee movie theater) 15 self-partnered: single (used by Emma Watson) 68 DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ im🍑: emoji representation of “impeach” 112/166 📠: facts (pun on “fax machine” emoji) 85 VSCO girl: young woman who posts trendy pictures of herself on the VSCO photo app 107/128 2018 WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ tender-age shelter/camp/facility: government detention center for asylum-seekers’ children 71/147 yeet: indication of surprise or excitement 107/135 (the) wall: proposed barrier along the US/Mexico border to prevent illegal crossings 19 X strong: expression of solidarity after a tragedy in a particular place, as in “Pittsburgh Strong”16 Individual 1: pseudonym for Trump in documents from the Mueller investigation 9 white-caller crime: phenomenon of white people calling police on black people for doing mundane things 68 POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ (the) wall: proposed barrier along the US/Mexico border to prevent illegal crossings 102/168 nationalist: displaying a staunch belief in one’s own nation (used by Trump and supporters) 78/123 blue wave: major Democratic electoral gain 66 caravan: procession of Central American asylum-seekers to US/Mexico border 26 lodestar: guiding principle (used in op/ed by anonymous White House staffer) 18 DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ techlash: backlash against tech innovators 92/113 demonetize: remove ads from a YouTube channel to deprive the creator of revenue 71/77 blackfishing: pretending to be black on social media by using makeup and hair products 71/92 deepfake: realistic digitally composed video used to misrepresent someone 52 finsta: fake Instagram account 7 SLANG/INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ yeet: indication of surprise or excitement 120/156 big dick energy (BDE): calm, unassuming attitude 51 canceled: firmly rejected or dismissed 12 mood, big mood: strong emotion of agreement 10 weird flex but OK: rejoinder to improper boast 109/147 MOST USEFUL ☛ Voldemorting: avoiding mention of unpleasant person or topic by using a replacement term 114 himpathy: flow of sympathy away from female victims toward their male victimizers 26 orbiting: ending communication with someone while still monitoring them on social media 61 preferred pronoun: pronoun that a person opts to use for himself/herself/themself/etc. 3 situationship: undefined or unlabeled personal relationship 25 self-care: care for oneself 44 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED ☛ single-use: made to be used only once and destroyed 101/149 climate grief: negative feelings caused by climate-change-related weather events 125/146 cli-fi: science fiction relating to climate change 21 hothouse Earth: scenario of runaway global warming 20 MOST CREATIVE ☛ white-caller crime: phenomenon of white people calling police on black people for doing mundane things 158 girther: person skeptical of the president’s reported weight and height 11 procrasti-: related to procrastination 13 today years old: indication that someone has just recently learned something 60 treasonweasel: epithet for a traitorous person 4 EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR ☛ racially charged: circumlocution for “racist” 223 executive time: presidential down-time 2 Individual 1: pseudonym for Trump in documents from the Mueller investigation 12 tender-age shelter/camp/facility: government detention center for asylum-seekers’ children 45 WTF WORD OF THE YEAR ☛ deleted family unit: bureaucratic term that referred to asylum-seeking families whose children were removed 95 emotional support peacock: therapy animal that airline passenger tried to bring on board 21 incel: involuntary celibate (online subculture) 77 shithole countries: Trump’s epithet for places he does not want to accept immigrants from 51 soy boy: term for a man perceived as not conforming to male gender stereotypes 9 HASHTAG OF THE YEAR ☛ #nottheonion: reporting something true that seems like satire from The Onion 96 #neveragain: call for gun-control measures after the Parkland shooting 84 #thankunext: expressing gratitude and readiness to move on (from Ariana Grande) 30 #timesup: movement protesting sexual assault 58 EMOJI OF THE YEAR ☛ 🤔: thinking face (indicating bemused pondering) 149 🦞: lobster (adopted by trans community) 49 💅: nail polish (indicating air of nonchalance) 25 🤦♀️: facepalm (indicating exasperation, disbelief) 49 2017 WORD OF THE YEAR - ☛ fake news - Disinformation or falsehoods presented as real news. - Actual news that is claimed to be untrue. 196 - alternative facts - Contrary information that matches one’s preferred narrative or interpretation of events. 12 - #MeToo - Indication by women that they have experienced sexual harassment or assault. 35 - milkshake duck - Person or thing that is deeply loved until problematic behavior is revealed or unearthed. 5 - persisterhood, persister - Blend of “persist” and “sister(hood),” an expression of solidarity for women who persist in the face of sexism and gender bias. 6 - pussyhat - Pink knitted hat worn by demonstrators at the Women’s March. 2 - take a knee - Kneel in protest, especially during a time when others are standing. 30 - whomst - Humorous variant of “whom” used as a sarcastic display of intelligence. 3 POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR - ☛ take a knee - Kneel in protest, especially during a time when others are standing. 181 - antifa - Anti-fascist movements and organizations, treated as a whole. 16 - persister, persisterhood - Blend of “persist” and “sister(hood),” an expression of solidarity for women who persist in the face of sexism and gender bias. 62 DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR - ☛ shitpost - Posting of worthless or irrelevant online content intended to derail a conversation or to provoke others. 78 - blockchain - Technology underlying cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, which exploded in value this year. 18 - digital blackface - When a (usu. white) person uses images of black people as a proxy for themselves on social media. 19 - emergency podcast - An audio show prepared at a moment of dire political need. 20 - get the zucc - Be banned from Facebook (from the name of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg). 24 - initial coin offering - Capital-raising process to collect funds to start up a new cryptocurrency. 21 - ratio - On Twitter, amount of replies to a tweet compared to the number of retweets and likes. 25 - rogue adj. - Describing someone ostensibly working in an administration who is posting messages against it. 34 SLANG/INFORMAL WORD OF THE YEAR - ☛ wypipo - Humorous phonetic spelling of “white people” used to flag white privilege, cluelessness, or absurdity. 168 - RIP - Humorous expression of being overwhelmed by emotions or other factors, as if dying. 5 - shooketh - Mock-archaic way of expressing shock or excitement. 18 - snatched - Good-looking, attractive. 22 MOST USEFUL - ☛ die by suicide - A variant of “to commit suicide” that does not suggest a criminal act. 108 - millennial pink - angry react, sad react - Expression of anger or sorrow (describing reaction emoji, e.g. on Facebook). 38 - ‑burger - Combining form modeled on “nothingburger.” 60 - Tint of pink used in goods and social media by and for millennials. 8 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED - ☛ fake news - Disinformation or falsehoods presented as real news. - Actual news that is claimed to be untrue. 196 - stan v. - Be a big fan (from Eminem song “Stan”). 2 - unicorn - A one-of-a-kind person or thing. 20 MOST CREATIVE - ☛ broflake - Man or boy who lacks resilience or coping skills in the face of disagreements or setbacks. 100 - askhole - Person who continuously asks ridiculous or obnoxious questions. 78 - caucacity - Blatantly exhibiting white privilege or acting in a stereotypically white way (a blend of “Caucasian” and “audacity”). 36 - milkshake duck - Person or thing that is deeply loved until problematic behavior is revealed or unearthed. 50 EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR - ☛ alternative facts - Contrary information that matches one’s preferred narrative or interpretation of events. 181 - avocado toast - A minor indulgence for which people unfairly judge others, esp. millennials. 43 - Internet freedom - Removal of net-neutrality regulations by the FCC. 23 - problematic - An understated way to say something is very wrong or unacceptably politically incorrect. 13 WTF WORD OF THE YEAR - ☛ covfefe - A (probably) mistyped word of unknown meaning used in a Donald Trump tweet. 113 - Oh hi Mark, ohimark - Catchphrase based on a line from the notoriously bad movie The Room. 34 - procrastination nanny - Person who moderates productivity for other adults, esp. as a group event. 16 - raw water - Water from natural sources without filters or treatment. 74 HASHTAG OF THE YEAR - ☛ #MeToo - Indication by women that they have experienced sexual harassment or assault. 231 - #NeverthelessShePersisted - Feminist rallying cry based on Mitch McConnell’s warning to Elizabeth Warren during a Senate debate. 12 - #ReclaimingMyTime - Phrase repeated by Rep. Maxine Waters when questioning Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin in a House committee hearing. 25 - #Resist - Slogan of the (anti-Trump) resistance. 11 EMOJI OF THE YEAR - ☛ 🧕 - woman with head scarf or hijab. 96 - 🐐 - GOAT (Greatest Of All Time). 44 - im🍑 - impeach. 50 - 🤔 - thinking face. 53 2016 WORD OF THE YEAR * dumpster fire: an exceedingly disastrous or chaotic situation (🗑️🔥). 112/162 woke: socially aware or enlightened. 74/129 normalize: treat as if normal that which was previously deemed beyond acceptable bounds. 60 post-truth: belonging to a time in which facts matter less than beliefs and emotions. 25 #NoDAPL: hashtag protesting the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. 24 🔥: fire emoji, used as a general superlative: 2 POLITICAL WORD OF THE YEAR deplorables (basket of): epithet used by Clinton in speech about Trump supporters. 26 nasty woman: epithet used by Trump addressing Clinton in final presidential debate. 89/138 Pantsuit Nation: popular Facebook group for Clinton supporters. 2 * post-truth: belonging to a time in which facts matter less than beliefs and emotions.133/164 unpresidented: erroneous version of unprecedented in a tweet by Trump. 44 DIGITAL WORD OF THE YEAR fam: one’s crew, squad, or circle of friends; a member thereof (used as term of address). 5 Harambe: gorilla killed at Cincinnati Zoo, launching numerous tributes and memes. 9 tweetstorm: series of connected tweets about a particular subject, often a passionate rant. 138 * @: (verb) reply on Twitter using the @ symbol. 155 SLANG WORD OF THE YEAR fire: (adj.) cool, fun, stylish; also used as a general superlative. 7 receipts: proof (as in “show me the receipts”). 130/136 slay: succeed, be excellent or amazing. 25 * woke: socially aware or enlightened. 122/168 MOST USEFUL / MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED chip: (verb) insert a bank card into an electronic chip reader (as opposed to swipe). 64 * gaslight: psychologically manipulate a person into questioning their own sanity. 153 normalize: treat as if normal that which was previously deemed beyond acceptable bounds. 82 turn up: get excited, have fun, enjoy oneself. 4 MOST CREATIVE -exit: combining form relating to departure, after Brexit (Calexit, Texit, Brangelexit) 124 facticide: killing or distortion of facts. 7 gynotician: politician seen as interfering with women’s healthcare. 31 * laissez-fairydust: magical effect brought upon by laissez-faire economics. 152 EUPHEMISM OF THE YEAR alt-right: umbrella term for extremist racial ideologies including white nationalism and white supremacy. 61 fake news: misinformation, hoaxes, and propaganda, especially as spread on social media sites to boost web traffic. 15 * locker-room banter: lewd, vulgar talk (used by Trump to downplay Access Hollywood tape), euphemizing discourse about harrassment of and aggression toward women. 187 small/tiny hands: a jab at hand size implying other anatomical deficiencies. 15 WTF WORD OF THE YEAR * bigly: in a significant manner (from widespread mishearing of Trump’s use of big-league). 159 cuck, cuckservative: derisive term for mainstream Republicans by alt-right. 64 pussy: term for female genitalia used by Trump in Access Hollywood tape. 9 yuuuge: dialect pronunciation of huge used by Trump and Bernie Sanders. 2 HASHTAG OF THE YEAR #blackgirlmagic: celebration of black women and their achievements. 5 * #NoDAPL: protest against construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. 198 #OscarsSoWhite: criticism of Academy Award nominees’ lack of diversity. 8 #pussygrabsback: rallying cry responding to Trump’s “pussy” remark. 29 EMOJI OF THE YEAR 🙌 : raising hands (celebration, praise). 16 ✊: raised fist (fist pump, solidarity). 33 🙃: upside-down face (silliness, sarcasm, irony). 11 *🔥: fire (“lit,” exciting); also used in : dumpster fire. 201 2015 WORD OF THE YEAR ammosexual: someone who loves firearms in a fetishistic manner. 42 ghost: (verb) abruptly end a relationship by cutting off communication, especially online. 25 on fleek: put together, impeccable, well-arrayed. 4 thanks, Obama: sarcastic expression in which a person pretends to blame Obama for a problem. 76 * they: gender-neutral singular pronoun for a known person, particularly as a nonbinary identifier. 187 MOST USEFUL mic drop: definitive end to a discussion after making an impressive point. 2 microaggression: subtle form of racism or bias. 62 shade: insult, criticism or disrespect, shown in a subtle or clever manner. 11 * they: gender-neutral singular pronoun for a known person, particularly as a nonbinary identifier. 214 zero fucks given, ZFG: indication of supreme indifference. 41 MOST CREATIVE adult: (verb) behave like a grownup 71 * ammosexual: someone who loves firearms in a fetishistic manner. 153 lowkey: (adverb) to a small extent, in a subtle manner; opposite of highkey. 38 squad: one’s posse or close circle of friends. 3 yass, yaass, yaaass, etc.: expression of excitement, approval or strong agreement. 43 MOST UNNECESSARY dadbod: the flabby physique of a typical dad. 16 * manbun: man’s hairstyle pulled up in a bun. 207 or nah: question tag expressing that something may not occur. 34 trigger warning: alert for potentially distressing material. 10 thanks, Obama: sarcastic expression in which a person pretends to blame Obama for a problem. 34 MOST OUTRAGEOUS fish gape: posed expression with cheeks sucked in and lips slightly apart. 3 * fuckboy, fuckboi: derogatory term for a man who behaves objectionably or promiscuously. 127 / 173 schlong: (verb) defeat soundly. 93 / 148 sharewashing: deceptive marketing by companies treating services as “sharing.” 14 white student union: campus organization organized in response to a black student union. 27 MOST EUPHEMISTIC af, asf: intensifier after an adjective (abbreviation for “as fuck”). 1 lit: amazing, exciting or fun. 2 * Netflix and chill: sexual come-on masked as a suggestion to watch Netflix and relax. 315 swipe right/left: accept or reject (based on gestures used on Tinder dating app). 24 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED CRISPR: gene-editing technology allowing biologists to alter and control DNA sequences. 51 * ghost: (verb) abruptly end a relationship by cutting off communication, especially online. 223 mom: admiring term of address for a woman seen as a mother figure. 17 on fleek: put together, impeccable, well-arrayed. 23 LEAST LIKELY TO SUCCEED Berniementum: momentum behind the candidacy of Bernie Sanders. 59 hoverboard: self-balancing motorized skateboard. 82 / 106 * sitbit: device that rewards sedentary lifestyle (play on Fitbit fitness tracker). 102 / 191 Uber for X: pitch used by startups seeking to emulate Uber in different tech sectors. 33 MOST NOTABLE HASHTAG (new category) #JeSuisParis: expression of solidarity after the Paris terror attacks. 6 #LoveWins: celebration of Supreme Court ruling on same-sex marriage. 60 * #SayHerName: call to bring attention to violence against women of color. 178 #StayMadAbby: ridiculing plaintiff in Univ. of Texas affirmative action case. 17 #StayWoke: exhortation to remain vigilant and informed (used by #BlackLivesMatter movement). 59 MOST NOTABLE EMOJI (new category) 😍: heart eyes (romantic, passionate). 31 😉: winking face (humorous, flirtatious). 8 💁: information desk person (sassy, sarcastic). 31 * 🍆: eggplant (sexual innuendo). 138 💯: 100 (“keep it 100,” “keep it real”). 56 2014 Words of the Year * #blacklivesmatter: hashtag used as protest over blacks killed at the hands of police (esp. Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. and Eric Garner in Staten Island). 196 bae: a sweetheart or romantic partner. 3 columbusing: cultural appropriation, especially the act of a white person claiming to discover things already known to minority cultures.11 even: deal with or reconcile difficult situations or emotions (from “I can’t even”). 5 manspreading: of a man, to sit with one’s legs wide on public transit in a way that blocks other seats. 5 MOST USEFUL * even: deal with or reconcile difficult situations or emotions (from “I can’t even”). 133 budtender: a person who specializes in serving marijuana to consumers, especially in legal dispensaries. 69 Ebola: deadly virus that, in 2014, killed thousands in West Africa. 9 robocar: a self-driving car. 7 unbothered: not annoyed or distracted. 15 MOST CREATIVE * columbusing: cultural appropriation, especially the act of a white person claiming to discover things already known to minority cultures. 158 manspreading: of a man, to sit with one’s legs wide on public transit in a way that blocks other seats. 44 misogynoir: misogyny directed toward black women. 8 narcissistick (or narcisstick): pejorative term for a selfie stick. 22 MOST UNNECESSARY * baeless: without a romantic partner (lacking a bae). 96/133 narcissistick (or narcisstick): pejorative term for a selfie stick. 57/93 basic: plain, socially awkward, unattractive, uninteresting, ignorant, pathetic, uncool, etc. 27 lumbersexual: fashionably rugged man who adopts the stereotypical dress and facial hair of a lumberjack. 43 MOST OUTRAGEOUS * second-amendment: v. to kill (someone) with a gun, used ironically by gun control supporters. 192 God view: display mode used by ride-sharing service Uber providing employees with real-time information on all users. 11 sugar-dating: pay-to-play relationship between an older, wealthier person (sugar daddy/momma) and a younger partner (sugar baby). 6 MOST EUPHEMISTIC * EIT: abbreviation for the already euphemistic “enhanced interrogation technique.” 108/139 conscious uncoupling:a divorce or romantic separation by polite mutual agreement. 84/103 bye, Felicia: a dismissive farewell to someone deemed unimportant. 30 thirsty: so hungry for a romantic partner as to appear desperate. 13 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED * salty: exceptionally bitter, angry, or upset. 78/131 basic: plain, socially awkward, unattractive, uninteresting, ignorant, pathetic, uncool, etc. 58/89 budtender: a person who specializes in serving marijuana to consumers, especially in legal dispensaries. 44 casual: a new or inexperienced person, especially a gamer (also in filthy casual). 7 plastiglomerate: type of stone made of melted plastic, beach sediment, and organic debris. 10 selfie stick: a pole to which a smartphone is attached to take selfies from a distance. 48 LEAST LIKELY TO SUCCEED * platisher: online media publisher that also serves as a platform for creating content. 173 normcore: “anti-fashion” trend of adopting an intentionally ordinary, inexpensive personal style from cheap off-the-shelf brands. 15 pairage: term proposed by Utah legislator Kraig Powell to refer to same-sex marriages. 53 MOST NOTABLE HASHTAG (new category) * #blacklivesmatter: protest over blacks killed at the hands of police (esp. Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., Eric Garner in Staten Island). 226 #icantbreathe: final words of Eric Garner, turned into rallying cry against police violence. 14 #notallmen: response by men to discussions of sexual abuse, sexism, or misogyny that they see as portraying all men as perpetrators (countered by #yesallwomen, used by women sharing stories of bias, harassment, or abuse). 1 #whyistayed: explanation by women about staying in abusive domestic relationships. 1 2013 Words of the Year * because: introducing a noun, adjective, or other part of speech (e.g., “because reasons,” “because awesome”). 127 slash: used as a coordinating conjunction to mean “and/or” (e.g., “come and visit slash stay”) or “so” (“I love that place, slash can we go there?”). 21 twerk: A mode of dance that involves vigorous booty-shaking and booty-thrusting, usually with the feet planted. 7 Obamacare: term for the Affordable Care Act that has moved from pejorative to matter-of-fact shorthand. 39 selfie: a photo taken of oneself, typically with a smartphone and shared on social media. 20 MOST USEFUL * because: introducing a noun, adjective, or other part of speech (e.g., “because reasons,” “because awesome”). 64/117 slash: used as a coordinating conjunction to mean “and/or” (e.g., “come and visit slash stay”) or “so” (“I love that place, slash can we go there?”). 51/79 selfie: a photo taken of oneself, typically with a smartphone and shared on social media. 37 strug(gle) bus: metaphor for a difficult situation, as in “I’m riding the struggle bus.” Also a verb. 32 ACC: “aggressive carbon-copy,” used to undermine the position of the recipient of an email, such as cc’ing the boss or legal counsel. MOST CREATIVE * catfish: to misrepresent oneself online, especially as part of a romantic deception. 62/94 doge: an Internet meme with intentionally ungrammatical exclamations over an image of a dog (typically the Shiba Inu breed). 70/88 bitcoin: an anonymous, decentralized, digital, encrypted currency and payment system. 4 robo sapiens: a class of robots with human-like intelligence. 51 MOST UNNECESSARY * sharknado: a tornado full of sharks, as featured in the Syfy Channel movie of that name. 162 cronut: a croissant-doughnut hybrid. 18 stack-ranking: a method of ranking employees on a primitive curve (used and abandoned by Microsoft). 11 MOST OUTRAGEOUS * underbutt: the underside of buttocks, made visible by certain shorts or underwear. 54/110 revenge porn: vindictive posting of sexually explicit pictures of someone without consent. 46/75 fatberg: large deposit of fat, grease, and solid sewage found in London sewers. 26 s(c)hmeat: (blend of sheet + meat): meat product grown in a lab. 17 thigh gap: a space between the thighs, taken by some as a sign of attractiveness (also box gap). 43 MOST EUPHEMISTIC * least untruthful: involving the smallest necessary lie (used by intelligence director James Clapper). 121 demised: laid off from employment (used by the bank HSBC). 16 slimdown: reinterpretation of “shutdown” used on Fox News site. 72 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED * binge-watch: to consume vast quantities of a single show or series of visual entertainment in one sitting. 117 drone: (trans. verb) to target with a drone, typically in a lethal drone strike. 19 glasshole: a person made oblivious by wearing Google Glass, a head-mounted computer. 21 Obamacare: term for the Affordable Care Act that has moved from pejorative to matter-of-fact shorthand. 51 LEAST LIKELY TO SUCCEED * Thanksgivukkah: confluence of Thanksgiving and the first day of Hanukkah that will not be repeated for another 70,000 years. 159 birthmas: a simultaneous celebration of a birthday and Christmas. 19 Harlem Shake: a video meme featuring comic, convulsive dancing accompanied by excerpt of the song “Harlem Shake” by the DJ Baauer. 19 MOST PRODUCTIVE (new category) * -shaming: (from slut-shaming) type of public humiliation (fat-shaming, pet-shaming). 98/132 -splaining: (from mansplaining) type of condescending explanation (whitesplaining, journosplaining). 49/68 –coin: (from bitcoin) type of cryptocurrency (peercoin, namecoin, dogecoin). 0 -(el)fie: (from selfie) type of self-portrait (drelfie ‘drunk selfie,’ twofie ‘selfie with two people’). 39 -hack: (from lifehack) type of shortcut to increase productivity. 13 -spo: (from thinspo) type of photo or video montage intended to inspire viewers to lose weight or stay fit (fitspo, sportspo). 1 2012 Words of the Year #hashtag: a word or phrase preceded by a hash symbol (#), used on Twitter to mark a topic or make a commentary 45/118 WINNER marriage equality: legal recognition of same-sex marriage 57/99 YOLO: acronym for “You Only Live Once,” often used sarcastically or self-deprecatingly 32 47 percent: portion of the population that does not pay federal income tax 31 fiscal cliff: threat of spending cuts and tax increases looming over end-of-year budget negotiations 25 Gangnam style: the trendy style of Seoul’s Gangnam district, as used in the Korean pop song of the same name 19 MOST USEFUL -(po)calypse, -(ma)geddon: hyperbolic combining forms for various catastrophes 66/115 WINNER YOLO: acronym for “You Only Live Once,” often used sarcastically or self-deprecatingly 59/62 hate-watching: continuing to follow a television show despite having an aversion to it 39 beardruff: dandruff from one’s beard 10 MOST CREATIVE gate lice: airline passengers who crowd around a gate waiting to board 53/93 WINNER mansplaining: a man’s condescending explanation to a female audience 54/90 alpacalypse: the Mayan apocalypse predicted for Dec. 21, 2012 (alpaca + -lypse) 50 dancelexia: inability to pull off dance moves (such as misspelling “YMCA”) 36 MOST UNNECESSARY legitimate rape: type of rape that Missouri Senate candidate Todd Akin claimed rarely results in pregnancy 94 WINNER HD: abbreviation for “high-definition,” used for things that could not be high-definition 21 feels: slangy shortening of “feelings” 20 Frankenstorm: term for Hurricane Sandy’s hybrid storm system (after Frankenstein’s monster) 14 MOST OUTRAGEOUS legitimate rape: type of rape that Missouri Senate candidate Todd Akin claimed rarely results in pregnancy 156 WINNER butt-chugging: an alcohol enema, used in college fraternity hazing rituals 36 Dunlop effect: when one’s stomach protrudes over ill-fitting pants (“belly done lop over the belt”) 3 slut-shaming: attacking a woman for socially stigmatized sexual activity 2 MOST EUPHEMISTIC self-deportation: policy of encouraging illegal immigrants to return voluntarily to their home countries 142 WINNER evolution: change of opinion 21 Gray Thursday: name given to Thanksgiving as a shopping day before Black Friday 12 ratchet: slang term originally referring to “urban divas” now used to mean “ghetto” 7 disruptive: destroying existing business models 3 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED marriage equality: legal recognition of same-sex marriage 156 WINNER big data: large collections of digital information used for revealing behavioral insights 20 superstorm: an unusually large and destructive storm, such as Hurricane Sandy 9 fiscal cliff: threat of spending cuts and tax increases looming over end-of-year budget negotiations 8 MOOC: acronym for “massive open online course” 4 LEAST LIKELY TO SUCCEED phablet: mid-sized electronic device between a smartphone and a tablet 76/92 WINNER YOLO: acronym for “You Only Live Once,” often used sarcastically or self-deprecatingly79/91 WINNER meggings: a blend for “male leggings” 22 Windows Metro: name originally used for the Windows 8 operating system 8 cray-cray: slangy shortening and reduplication of “crazy” 5 Gangnam style: the trendy style of Seoul’s Gangnam district, as used in the Korean pop song of the same name 5 ELECTION WORDS (new category) binders (full of women): term used by Romney in the second presidential debate to describe the resumes of female job candidates that he consulted as governor of Massachusetts 107 WINNER 47 percent: portion of the population that does not pay federal income tax 64 Romney/Obama: names of candidates used for blends (Obamaloney, Obamageddon, Romnesia, Romney Hood) 13 Eastwooding: photo fad inspired by Clint Eastwood’s unscripted speech at the RNC 10 Etch-a-Sketch: metaphor of reinvention used by Romney campaign adviser Eric Fehrnstrom 8 malarkey: nonsense, empty talk (as used by Biden in the vice-presidential debate) 8 2011 Words of the Year occupy – verb, noun, and combining form referring to the Occupy protest movement. 82/174 WINNER FOMO – acronym for “Fear of Missing Out,” describing anxiety over being inundated by information on social media. 41/28 the 99%, 99 percenters – those held to be at a financial or political disadvantage to the top moneymakers, the one-percenters. 43/24 humblebrag – expression of false humility, especially by celebrities on Twitter. 30 job creator – a member of the top one-percent of moneymakers. 4 MOST USEFUL humblebrag – expression of false humility, especially by celebrities on Twitter. 87/121 WINNER occupy – verb, noun, and combining form referring to the Occupy protest movement. 70/102 FOMO – acronym for “Fear of Missing Out,” describing anxiety over being inundated by information on social media. 25 tablet – lightweight portable computer with a touchscreen to input data. 30 MOST CREATIVE Mellencamp – a woman who has aged out of being a “cougar” (after John Cougar Mellencamp). 103 WINNER bunga bunga – name for sex parties allegedly involving former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi. 21 kardash – unit of measurement consisting of 72 days, after the short-lived marriage of Kim Kardashian and Kris Humphries (coined by Weird Al Yankovic). 82 put a bird on it – to add artistic flair to something, usu. used ironically or humorously. 23 MOST UNNECESSARY bi-winning – term used by Charlie Sheen to describe himself pridefully, dismissing accusations of being bipolar. 77/156 WINNER amazeballs – slang form for “amazing.” 82/85 planking – posing for a photograph, esp. in a public place, with one’s body in a stiff, prone position, for circulation online. 13 Qwikster : short-lived Netflix spinoff of its DVD rental service, separated from its streaming. 44 MOST OUTRAGEOUS assholocracy – rule by obnoxious multi-millionaires. 166 WINNER deather – one who doubts the official story of the killing of Osama bin Laden. 35 botoxionist – a doctor who administers Botox injections. 1 MOST EUPHEMISTIC job creator – a member of the top one-percent of moneymakers. 111 WINNER artisan, artisanal – faux-fancy term used to describe food and other products. 78 regime alteration – alternative to “regime change” promoted by Obama administration in some Middle Eastern countries. 19 sugar-coated Satan sandwich : something bad on the inside that looks good on the outside, as used by Missouri U.S Congressman Emanuel Cleaver. 1 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED cloud – online space for the large-scale processing and storage of data. 155 WINNER Arab Spring – a series of popular uprisings in Middle Eastern countries against dictatorial regimes. 54 tiger mom, tiger mother – an exceedingly strict parent (after Amy Chua’s memoir, “Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother”). LEAST LIKELY TO SUCCEED brony – adult male fan of the “My Little Pony” cartoon franchise. 103 WINNER Tebowing – posing for photograph praying on one knee, after Denver Broncos quarterback Tim Tebow. 47 9-9-9 – tax plan proposed by Herman Cain (9% business tax, 9% personal income tax, 9% federal sales tax). 65 OCCUPY WORDS (new category) the 99%, 99 percenters – those held to be at a financial or political disadvantage to the top moneymakers, the one-percenters. n-percenters, n-percent. 219 WINNER occupy – verb, noun, and combining form referring to the Occupy protest movement. 17 people’s mic, human microphone – method of amplifying a person’s speech by having surrounding people repeat it line by line 7 twinkling – system of wiggly hand gestures to register approval or disapproval. 9 2010 Word of the Year app : application program for a computer or phone operating system. As in “there’s an app for that,” an advertising slogan for the iPhone. 52/69 WINNER nom: Onomatopoetic form connoting eating, esp. pleasurably. Can be used as an interjection or noun to refer to delicious food. 34/51. junk as used in junk shot (attempt to fix BP oil spill), junk status (Greece’s credit rating), don’t touch my junk (protest against TSA pat-down procedure). 17 Wikileaks as proper noun, common noun, and verb. 12 trend verb: to exhibit a burst of online buzz. 12 MOST USEFUL nom Onomatopoetic form connoting eating, esp. pleasurably. Can be used as an interjection or noun to refer to delicious food. 49/72 WINNER fat-finger verb: to mistype, as by accidentally striking more than one key on a keyboard/pad. 16 junk junk shot (attempt to fix BP oil spill), junk status (Greece’s credit rating), don’t touch my junk (protest against TSA pat-down procedure). 46/42 vuvuzela : South African plastic trumpet used by fans during the FIFA World Cup matches. MOST CREATIVE prehab Preemptive enrollment in a rehab facility to prevent relapse of an abuse problem. 45/65 WINNER -sauce Intensive suffix, as in awesome-sauce ‘great’ and lame-sauce ‘stupid’. 37/51 spillion An immense number, especially of gallons of oil in the Gulf spill. Also spillionaire, person made rich by money from BP’s spill cleanup fund. 29 phoenix firm A troubled company that reemerges under a new name. 13 MOST UNNECESSARY refudiate Blend of refute and repudiate used by Sarah Palin on Twitter. 72/WINNER ironic moustache Facial hair worn as a statement of retro hipsterdom. 6 star whacker Imagined celebrity killer (alleged by actor Randy Quaid and his wife Evi). 16 hipsterdom : the state of being hip beyond all recognition. So hip you’re unhip. 14 MOST OUTRAGEOUS gate rape Pejorative term for invasive new airport pat-down procedure. 55/67 WINNER terror baby Baby born to a terrorist family on U.S. soil in order to establish citizenship. 52/56 bed intruder Perpetrator of a home invasion in Huntsville, Ala., made famous by viral video. 22 MOST EUPHEMISTIC kinetic event Pentagon term for violent attacks on troops in Afghanistan. 84/WINNER corn sugar Corn Refiners Association’s rebranding of high fructose corn syrup. 1. enhanced pat-down TSA’s term for controversial new frisking procedure. 21 bed intruder Perpetrator of a home invasion in Huntsville, Ala., made famous by viral video. 19 MOST LIKELY TO SUCCEED trend Verb: to exhibit a burst of online buzz. 73/WINNER hacktivism Using computer hacking skills as a form of political or social activism. 34 -pad Combining form used by iPad and other tablet computers (ViewPad, WindPad, etc.). 22 telework Term used at federal level for work by an employee away from the office. 9 LEAST LIKELY TO SUCCEED culturomics Research project from Google analyzing the history of language and culture 44/85 WINNER fauxhemian Winner of a Gawker poll to replace the term “hipster.” 31 skyaking Jumping out of a plane in a kayak. 47/33 top kill / top hat / junk shot Various failed techniques to fix the BP oil spill. 11 ELECTION TERMS (new category) All terms agreed to be losers. The entire category was deleted by acclamation. Aqua Buddha Fictitious deity in collegiate scandal involving Rand Paul, raised during his Kentucky Senate campaign. mama grizzly Sarah Palin’s term for a fiercely conservative female candidate. man up Exhortation to be responsible or “act like a man,” used by Sharron Angle against Harry Reid in Nevada Senate race. Obamacare Pejorative term for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010. FAN WORDS (new category) gleek A fan of the TV show “Glee” (Glee + geek) 90 WINNER belieber A fan of pop singer Justin Bieber (Bieber + believer) 3 little monster A fan of pop singer Lady Gaga, so called by the singer herself. 0 Twihard A fan of the “Twilight” books and movies. 7 Yat Dat A native-born fan of the New Orleans Saints. 14 2009 Word of the Year: tweet, noun, a short message sent via the Twitter.com service, and verb, the act of sending such a message WORD OF THE DECADE WINNER: google Verb meaning “to search the Internet.” Generic form of the trademarked “Google,” the world’s dominant Internet search engine. MOST USEFUL fail A noun or interjection used when something is egregiously unsuccessful. Usually written as “FAIL!” MOST CREATIVE: Dracula sneeze : Covering one’s mouth with the crook of one’s elbow when sneezing, seen as similar to popular portrayals of the vampire Dracula, in which he hides the lower half of his face with a cape. MOST UNNECESSARY sea kittens fish (according to PETA) Most Outrageous death panel A supposed committee of doctors and/or bureaucrats who would decide which patients were allowed to receive treatment, ostensibly leaving the rest to die. MOST EUPHEMISTIC hike the Appalachian trail To go away to have sex with one’s illicit lover. Follows on a statement by South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford, who went to Argentina to visit his mistress. Most Likely to Succeed twenty-ten A pronunciation of the year 2010, as opposed to saying “two thousand ten” or “two thousand and ten.” (twenty- as prefix until 2099) Least Likely to Succeed name of the decade 2000-2009, such as Naughties, Aughties, Oughties, etc. 2008 Word of the Year: bailout, the rescue by the government of companies on the brink of failure, including large players in the banking industry. Most Useful: Barack Obama, both names as combining forms. Most Creative: recombobulation area, an area at Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee in which passengers that have just passed through security screening can get their clothes and belongings back in order. Most Unnecesssary: moofing, from “mobile out of office,” meaning working on the go with a laptop and cell phone. Created by a PR firm. Most Outrageous: terrorist fist jab, A knuckle-to-knuckle fist bump, or “dap,” traditionally performed between two black people as a sign of friendship, celebration or agreement. It was called the “terrorist fist jab” by the newscaster E. D. Hill, formerly of Fox News. Most Euphemistic: scooping technician, A person whose job it is to pick up dog poop. Most Likely to Succeeed: shovel-ready, Used to describe infrastructure projects that can be started quickly when funds become available. Least Likely to Succeed: PUMA,An acronym for Party Unity My Ass, used by Democrats who were disaffected after Hillary Clinton failed to secure a sufficient number of delegates. It was later said to stand for Party Unity Means Action. New Category, Election-Related Words: maverick, a person who is beholden to no one. Widely used by the Republican Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates, John McCain and Sarah Palin. Also in the adjectival form mavericky, used by Tina Fey portraying Palin on Saturday Night Live. 2007 Word of the Year: subprime, an adjective used to describe a risky or less than ideal loan, mortgage, or investment. Most Useful: green– prefix/compounding form, designates environmental concern, as in greenwashing. Most Creative: googlegänger, a person with your name who shows up when you google yourself. Most Unnecesssary: Happy Kwanhanamas! [Kwanza + Hanukka + Christmas] Happy holidays! Most Outrageous: toe-tapper, A homosexual. Senator Larry Craig was arrested in June for an encounter in a public restroom in which toe-tapping was said to have been used as a sexual come-on. Most Euphemistic: human terrain team, a group of social scientists employed by the US military to serve as cultural advisers in Iraq or Afghanistan. Most Likely to Succeeed: green- prefix/compounding form, designates environmental concern, as in greenwashing. Least Likely to Succeed: strand-in, protest duplicating being stranded inside an airplane on a delayed flight. New Category, Real Estate Words: subprime, used to describe a risky or poorly documented loan or mortgage. 2006 Word of the Year: to be plutoed, to pluto, to be demoted or devalued. Most Useful: climate canary, an organism or species whose poor health or declining numbers hint at a larger environmental catastrophe on the horizon. Most Creative: lactard, a person who is lactose-intolerant. Most Unnecessary: SuriKat, the supposed nickname of the baby girl of Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes. Most Outrageous: Cambodian accessory, Angelina Jolie’s adopted child who is Cambodian. Most Euphemistic: waterboarding, an interrogation technique in which the subject is immobilized and doused with water to simulate drowning; reported to be used by U.S. interrogators against terrorism detainees. Most Likely to Succeed: YouTube as a verb, to use the YouTube web site or to have a video of one’s self be posted on the site. Least Likely to Succeed: grup, a Gen-Xer who does not act his or her age. New Category, Pluto-Related Words: to be plutoed, to pluto, to be demoted or devalued. 2005 Word of the Year: truthiness, what one wishes to be the truth regardless of the facts. (From the Colbert Report with Stephen Colbert, a mock news show on Comedy Central.) Most Useful: podcast, audio or video file for downloading. Most Creative: whale-tail, the appearance of thong or g-string underwaear above the waistband. Most Unnecessary: K Fed, Kevin Federline, Mr. Britney Spears. Most Outrageous: crotchfruit, a child or children. Most Euphemistic: internal nutrition force-feeding a prisoner. Most Likely to Succeed: sudoku number puzzle from Japan. Least Likely to Succeed: pope-squatting registering a likely domain name of a new pope before the pope chooses his new name in order to profit from it. Special nonce category, Best Tom Cruise-Related Word: jump the couch, to exhibit frenetic behavior like Cruise’s couch-bouncing on Oprah Winfrey’s talk show. 2004 Word of the Year: red/blue/purple states, red favoring conservative Republicans and blue favoring liberal Democrats, as well as the undecided purple states in the political map of the United States. Most Useful: phish, to induce someone to reveal private information by means of deceptive e-mail. Most Creative: pajamahadeen, bloggers who challenge and fact-check traditional media. Most Unnecessary: stalkette, a female stalker. Most Outrageous: santorum, byproduct of anal sex, using the name of a senator opposed to the practice. Most Euphemistic: badly sourced, false. Most Likely to Succeed: red/blue/purple states. Least Likely to Succeed: FLOHPA, Florida, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, important states in the 2004 presidential election. 2003 Word of the Year: metrosexual, fashion-conscious heterosexual male. Most Useful: flexitarian, vegetarian who occasionally eats meat. Most Creative: freegan, person who eats only free food. Most Unnecessary: freedom for “French,” as in fries and kisses. Most Outrageous: cliterati, feminist writers or leaders. Most Euphemistic: pre-emptive self-defense, attack before a possible attack on oneself. Most Likely to Succeed: SARS, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, viral disease first reported in Asia in February. Least Likely to Succeed: tomacco, poisonous hybrid of tomato and tobacco. Best Revival of an old term: spider hole, World War II term for a hole deeper than a foxhole used for surprise attacks; in 2003, where Saddam Hussein was hiding. 2002 Word of the Year: weapons of mass destruction or WMD, sought for in Iraq. Most Likely to Succeed: blog, from “weblog,” a website of personal events, comments, and links. Most Useful: google (verb), as in “to google someone,” to search the Web using the search engine Google for information on a person or thing. Most Creative: Iraqnophobia, strong fear of Iraq. Most Unnecessary: wombanization, feminization, from Alexander Barnes’s book “The Book Read Backwards: The Deconstruction of Patriarchy and the Wombanization of Being.” Most Outrageous: neuticles, fake testicles for neutered pets. Most Euphemistic: regime change, forced change in leadership. 2001 Word of the Year: 9-11, 9/11 or September 11, terrorist attacks on that date. Most Likely to Succeed: 9-11. Most Useful (tie): facial profiling, using video “faceprints” to identify terrorists and criminals, and second-hand speech, cell phone conversations heard by others in public places. Most Creative: shuicide bomber, terrorist with bomb in shoes. Most Unnecessary: impeachment nostalgia, longing for the superficial news of the Clinton era. Least Likely to Succeed: Osamaniac, woman sexually attracted to terrorist Osama bin Laden. Most Outrageous: assoline, methane used as fuel. Most Euphemistic: daisy cutter, large bomb that explodes a few feet above the ground. Most Inspirational: Let’s roll! words of Todd Beamer to start the attack that foiled the hijackers of United Flight 93 on September 11. 2000 Word of the Year: chad, a small scrap of paper punched from a voting card. Most Likely to Succeed: muggle, Harry Potter term for a non-wizard; a mundane, unimaginative person. Most Useful: civil union, legal same-sex marriage. Most Creative: dot bomb, a failed dot-com. Most Unnecessary: sudden loss of wealth syndrome. Least Likely to Succeed: kablokeys, used in phrases like “It scared the kablokeys out of me.” Most Outrageous: wall humping, rubbing a thigh against a security card scanner to allow access without removing the card from one’s pocket. Most Euphemistic: courtesy call, an uninvited call from a telemarketer. Brand New (coined during the year, not previously attested): unconcede, to rescind a concession as presidential candidate Al Gore did on election night. (It was later discovered that candidate Bob Dole had unconceded the presidential election in 1996, and there were occasional instances of that word going back several centuries.) Also chosen in January 2000: Word of the Decade: web. Word of the Twentieth Century: jazz. Word of the Millennium: she. 1999 Word of the Year: Y2K. Most Likely to Succeed and Most Useful: dot-com, a company operating on the web. Most Original: cybersquat, to register a web address intending to sell it at a profit. Most unnecessary: Milly, dance commissioned by the city of Chicago for the millennium. Most Outrageous: humanitarian intervention, use of military force for humanitarian purposes. Most Euphemistic: compassionate conservative. Brand New (coined during the year, not previously attested): Pokémania, obsession with Pokémon. 1998 Word of the Year: prefix e- for “electronic” as in e-mail and newly prominent e-commerce. Most Likely to Succeed and Most Useful: e-. Most Original: multislacking, playing at the computer when one should be working. Most Unnecessary: the entire Monica Lewinsky word family, including Big She as a synonym for M.L., and the verb Lewinsky, to engage in what might be sexual relations. Least Likely to Succeed: compfusion, confusion over computers. Most Outrageous: Ejaculation Proclamation, the President’s confession. Most Euphemistic: senior moment, momentary lapse of memory due to age. Brand New (coined during the year, not previously attested): -agra or -gra (from the drug name Viagra), suffix denoting substance prompting men to perform unusually, as in Directra that causes men to ask for directions. 1997 Word of the Year: millennium bug, also known as Y2K bug or Y2K problem, that causes computers to think that the year after 1999 is 1900. Most Likely to Succeed: DVD, Digital Versatile Disk, optical disk expected to replace CDs. Most Useful: (tie) -[r]azzi, an aggressive pursuer, and duh (with a falling intonation), expression of someone else’s stupidity. Most Original: prairie dogging, popping one’s head above an office cubicle for the sake of curiosity. Most Unnecessary: heaven-o, replacement for “hello.” Most Outrageous: Florida flambe, fire caused by Florida electric chair. Most Euphemistic: exit bag, bag placed over the head to assist in suicide. Brand New (coined during the year, not previously attested): El Nonsense, illogical association of an event with El Niño. 1996 Word of the Year: mom as in soccer mom, newly significant type of voter. Most Likely to Succeed: drive-by, designating brief visits or hospital stays. Most Useful: dot, used instead of “period” in e-mail and URL addresses. Most Original: prebuttal, preemptive rebuttal. Most Unnecessary: Mexican hustle, another name for the Macarena (which is not Mexican). Most Outrageous: toy soldier, land mine. Most Euphemistic: (tie) urban camping, living homeless in a city, and food insecure, said of a country where people are starving. Most Controversial: Ebonics, African-American vernacular English. 1995 Word of the Year: (tie) World Wide Web on the Internet, and newt, to make aggressive changes as a newcomer. Most Likely to Succeed: World Wide Web and its variants the Web, WWW, W3. Most Useful: E.Q. (for Emotional Quotient), the ability to manage one’s emotions. Most Original: postal or go postal, to act irrationally, often violently, from stress at work. Most Unnecessary: Vanna White shrimp, large shrimp for the restaurant market. Most Outrageous: starter marriage, a first marriage not expected to be the last. Most Euphemistic: patriot, one who believes in using force of arms if necessary to defend individual rights against the government. 1994 Word of the Year: (tie) cyber, pertaining to computers and electronic communication, and morph, to change form. Most Promising: Infobahn, the Internet. Most Useful: gingrich, to deal with government agencies, policies, and people in the manner of U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Most Imaginative: guillermo, an e-mail message in a foreign language. (The Spanish name Guillermo has the nicknameMemo.) Most Trendy: dress down day or casual day, a workday when employees are allowed to dress casually. Most Euphemistic: challenged indicating an undesirable or unappealing condition. Most Beautiful: sylvanshine, night-time iridescence of certain forest trees. 1993 Word of the Year: information superhighway, network linking computers, television, telephone, and other electronic means of communication. Most Likely to Succeed: quotative like with a form of the verb be to indicate speech or thought. Most Useful: thing premodified by a noun, e.g. “a Chicago thing.” Most Imaginative: McJob, a generic, unstimulating, low-paying job. Most Amazing: cybersex, sexual stimulation by computer. Most Unnecessary: mosaic culture to describe a multicultural society. Most Outrageous: whirlpooling, assault of a female by a male group in a swimming pool. Most Euphemistic: street builder, a homeless person who constructs a shanty. Most Unpronounceable: Jurassosaurus nedegoapeferkimorum, a new dinosaur. 1992 Word of the Year: Not! expression of disagreement. Most Likely to Succeed: snail mail, s-mail, mail that is physically delivered, as opposed to e-mail. Most Useful: grunge, a style of clothing. Most Original: Franken-, genetically altered. Most Amazing: Munchhausen’s syndrome by proxy, illness fabricated to evoke sympathy for the caregiver. Most Unnecessary: gender feminism, belief that sex roles are social, not biological. Most Outrageous: ethnic cleansing, purging of ethnic minorities. 1991 Word of the Year: mother of all –, greatest, most impressive. Most Likely to Succeed: rollerblade, skate with rollers in a single row. Most Successful: in your face, aggressive, confrontational, flamboyant. Most Original: molecular pharming, pharming, genetically modifying farm animals to produce human proteins for pharmaceutical use. Most Amazing: velcroid, a person who sticks by the (U.S.) president, especially for photo opportunities. Most Unnecessary: massively parallel, many small computers yoked together. 1990 Word of the Year: bushlips, insincere political rhetoric. Most Likely to Succeed: (tie) notebook PC, a portable personal computer weighting 4-8 pounds, and rightsizing, adjusting the size of a staff by laying off employees. Most Useful: (tie) technostupidity, loss of ability through dependence on machines, and potty parity, equalization of toilet facilities for the sexes. Most Original: voice merging, the oral tradition of African-American preachers using another’s words. Most Amazing: bungee jumping, jumping from a high platform with elastic cables on the feet. Most Unnecessary: peace dividend, anticipated saving in military spending due to improved relations with the Soviet Union. Most Outrageous: politically correct, PC, adhering to principles of left-wing social concern.


--- [How 'Dumpster Fire' Became 2016's Word of the Year] ---
Think 2016 was a ? The nation's top linguists agree. The American Dialect Society just named "dumpster fire"—and the two emoji that represent it—its Word of the Year. Why? Because, it says, the phrase best represents "the public discourse and preoccupations" of 2016. The society of linguists, grammarians, and wordy scholars has awarded the prize each year since 1990, back when "bushlips," defined as "insincere political rhetoric," won Word of the Year and "politically correct" won Most Outrageous. This year, after an initial deliberation by the society's New Words Committee, more than 300 members of the Linguistic Society of America voted at a standing-room-only reception during the society's annual conference. The entire slate had a political bent, but "dumpster fire" ultimately triumphed over "woke," "normalize," "post-truth," "#NoDAPL," and—in distant sixth place, sans dumpster—"." It isn't the only group to do this. Merriam-Webster chose "surreal," Dictionary.com went for "xenophobia," and Oxford Dictionaries selected "post-truth." But so far, New Words Committee's is the only choice to be so eminently emoji-able. While it's clearly a bit of commentary on current events, says Ben Zimmer, chair of the New Words Committee, it's also "a bit of dark humor for people who were a bit unhappy with the events of 2016." Some years, Zimmer can accurately predict the winner. Not this year, though. "Last year, there was a clear front-runner: 'they,' being used as a singular third-person pronoun," he says. But this year, the competition was close: "woke" in particular was popular enough to prompt a runoff vote, though "dumpster fire" took the crown by a count of 162-129. This year wasn't the first time so many submissions referenced political events. “Four years ago, there was 'binders (full of women)' and 'Eastwooding,'" says Zimmer. "It seems almost quaint in retrospect." But an unprecedented amount of the 2016 presidential campaign took place on Twitter, a development that fundamentally changed how linguists source neologisms—and how we create them. "We can eavesdrop on what's spread in a way that we couldn’t do before," Zimmer says. After Hillary Clinton mentioned a basket of deplorables or Donald Trump blurted "nasty woman," you could buy T-shirts and mugs emblazoned with the terms within hours. Trending topics allow linguists to track a phrase from creation to virality. "You can see the way that people receive what the candidates are saying, react to it, and repurpose what they’ve heard," says Zimmer. "Hashtags are often used as vehicles to circulate a linguistic meme." The American Dialect Society has given these new forms their due: In 2015, for the first time, it included categories for Most Notable Emoji () and Most Notable Hashtag (#SayHerName). Of course, "dumpster fire" held meaning before it became . You can trace it to 2009, when sports radio host Mike Wise used the phrase in a column about the Redskins losing to the Lions, calling it an "abomination of a loss." Or go further back, to 1936, when George Dempster invented the garbage truck and called it the "Dempster-Dumpster." But the paralinguistic forms, as they're known, offer an additional form of self-expression—one we especially needed in 2016. When we talk in person or on the phone, we rely on gestures and intonations to express ourselves, especially when the subject prompts an emotional reactions. As more of our communication happens online, we turn to digital forms to share those responses: emoji, GIFs, pictograms like ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. "In informal written communication, especially on the internet, we want to convey our tone of voice and attitude towards people," says linguist Gretchen McCullock. "Emoji are really good at paralinguistic communication, to accompany the literal meaning that we're conveying." This use of emoji to represent visceral response was especially useful in a year when the news—from political gaffes to racial tensions—felt deeply personal. In 2015, Apple released iOS 8.3, including the first range of skin tones; in 2016, Twitter added three black fists to the #BlackLivesMatter hashtag. As emoji become more personalized, they allow users to more specifically represent themselves; other contenders for the Emoji of the Year were and . "It's not a coincidence that all the most popular are face and hand emojis," says McCullock. "They show stuff we can do when we see each other." Inevitably, some of 2016's most popular expressions will fade from the zeitgeist, joining the likes of "Y2K" (1999 Word of the Year) and "to be Plutoed" (2006 Word of the Year). But the practice of creating new phrases to describe cultural events will continue—and in an era of digital communication, that includes emoji. Let's just hope 2017 is more , less .
