=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Vehicle Assembly Building - Wikipedia]
Before the destruction of Space Shuttle Columbia in 2003, NASA installed a sub-roof inside the VAB to deal with falling concrete debris due to the building's age. [10] The VAB was designated as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Civil Engineers in 2020. [11]
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vehicle_Assembly_Building

[Kennedy at 60: Vehicle Assembly Building Ready for New Era of ... - NASA]
Jan 13, 2022 · In January 2020, the American Society of Civil Engineers designated the VAB as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark. The Florida Association of The American Institute of Architects honored the facility and its adjacent Launch Control Center with a “Test of Time” design award, recognizing the contributions of the architects and ...
URL: https://www.nasa.gov/centers-and-facilities/kennedy/kennedy-at-60-vehicle-assembly-building-ready-for-new-era-of-launch-vehicles/

[The VAB - National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark]
Jan 14, 2020 · The Florida Section of the American Society of Civil Engineers bestowed the ASCE National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark award to Kennedy Space Center’s iconic Vehicle Assembly Building during a ceremony on Jan. 10, 2020. The VAB is the first building at Kennedy Space Center to earn this distinction. At the time of its completion, the 129-million-cubic-foot structure was the largest ...
URL: https://forum.nasaspaceflight.com/index.php?topic=49877.0

[KSC Vehicle Assembly Building | About NASA's Rocket Factory]
Design & Architecture The Vehicle Assembly Building designed by the Max O. Urbahn architectural firm is one of the most significant buildings in the world. In 2020, it was honored as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Civil Engineers. Here are some of its unique architectural and design features: The VAB measures 526 feet in height, 716 feet in length and ...
URL: https://www.kennedyspacecenter-tickets.com/vehicle-assembly-building/

[VAB named National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark]
Jan 10, 2020 · The American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark in a ceremony Friday at KSC.
URL: https://www.floridatoday.com/picture-gallery/news/2020/01/10/vab-named-national-historic-civil-engineering-landmark/4436911002/


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Vehicle Assembly Building - Wikipedia] ---
The Vehicle Assembly Building (originally the Vertical Assembly Building), or VAB, is a large building at NASA's Kennedy Space Center (KSC) in Florida, designed to assemble large pre-manufactured space vehicle components, such as the massive Saturn V, the Space Shuttle and the Space Launch System, and stack them vertically onto one of three mobile launcher platforms used by NASA. As of March 2022, the first Space Launch System (SLS) rocket was assembled inside in preparation for the Artemis I mission, launched on November 16, 2022.
At 129,428,000 ft3 (3,665,000 m3), it is the eighth-largest building in the world by volume as of 2022. The building is at Launch Complex 39 at KSC, 149 miles (240 km) south of Jacksonville, 219 miles (352 km) north of Miami, and 50 miles (80 km) due east of Orlando, on Merritt Island on the Atlantic coast of Florida.
The VAB is the largest single-story building in the world, was the tallest building (526 ft or 160 m) in Florida until 1974, and is the tallest building in the United States outside an urban area.


--- [Kennedy at 60: Vehicle Assembly Building Ready for New Era of ... - NASA] ---
By Linda Herridge NASA’s John F. Kennedy Space Center Standing 525 feet tall and containing 130 million cubic feet of interior space, the iconic Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) at Kennedy Space Center in Florida has been a shining beacon for NASA’s space program since the early 1960s. This is the facility where launch vehicles for the Apollo, Skylab and Space Shuttle programs were stacked and processed before their rollout to Launch Complex 39A or B for liftoff into space. As the center celebrates its 60th anniversary this year, the VAB is the site where the next generation of launch vehicles will be stacked and processed for NASA’s Artemis missions to the Moon and beyond. “We have witnessed the beginning of some of the most historical moments of the space program within the walls of the VAB. Saturn V, space shuttle, and now the Space Launch System – each launch vehicle started their journey in the VAB,” said Explorations Ground Systems (EGS) Program Manager, Mike Bolger. “The work that has taken place to get us to this moment with SLS fully stacked in High Bay 3 has been remarkable, and we cannot wait to see it roll out to Launch Pad 39B where it will serve as NASA’s next giant leap in deep space exploration with the launch of Artemis I.” Currently, the agency’s massive Space Launch System (SLS) rocket and Orion spacecraft for Artemis I are undergoing integrated testing stacked atop the mobile launcher in High Bay 3 before being readied for a trial run to Pad B. The high bay was upgraded by EGS beginning in 2014. The project removed old platforms and installed 10 levels of new work platforms. A total of 20 platform halves surround the rocket and spacecraft to provide access for testing and processing before SLS and Orion roll out atop the crawler-transporter along the crawlerway to Pad B. Initially conceived as the Vertical Assembly Building, it was renamed the Vehicle Assembly Building in 1965 during construction. The Max O. Urbahn architectural firm in New York City designed it. The VAB spans 8 acres and is one of the largest buildings in the world by volume. At a width of 518 feet, the building is made of 65,000 cubic yards of concrete and its frame contains 98,590 tons of steel. Completed in 1966, the building includes a low bay, four high bays, a transfer aisle, and several heavy-lift cranes. To date, 12 Apollo missions, four Skylab missions, one Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, one Ares I mission, and all 135 space shuttle missions were processed through the VAB. The VAB has received a number of distinctions. It was listed in the National Register of Historic Places on Jan. 21, 2000. In January 2020, the American Society of Civil Engineers designated the VAB as a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark. The Florida Association of The American Institute of Architects honored the facility and its adjacent Launch Control Center with a “Test of Time” design award, recognizing the contributions of the architects and engineers of these unique buildings. Contrary to popular stories circulated during construction, the VAB, which is mostly not air conditioned, does not create its own weather – reports of indoor rain, clouds, or fog are myths. Jose Perez Morales, the EGS senior project manager for the VAB and Pad 39B elements, has worked at Kennedy since 1985. “Because of the massive amount of steel and volume of the building, temperatures inside the VAB can fluctuate from very cold to very hot depending on the outside weather,” Perez Morales said. “To prevent the formation of a wind tunnel in the transfer aisle during high winds, the procedure is to close the north and south doors.” The VAB sports a large American flag – a 209-foot-tall, 110-foot-wide stars and stripes painted on the exterior of its south side. Each star measures six feet across, and the blue field is the size of a basketball court. The flag originally was painted onto the VAB in 1976 for the Bicentennial Exposition on Space and Technology. A 12,300-square-foot NASA logo also adorns the south side of the facility. Recently, the flag and NASA logo were repainted using more than 500 gallons of paint. A giant Artemis banner also was added above the low bay entrance, signifying NASA’s goal through Artemis missions to establish a sustainable human presence on and around the Moon to prepare for missions to Mars.


--- [The VAB - National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark] ---
Some amazing photos from the Cape Canaveral Space Force Museum Archives. This time we see some rare photos and artist conceptions of the building that would house Saturn Vs, the Space Shuttle and now Artemis.Music by ComaStudio from Pixabay The Vehicle Assembly Building has been used since the 1960s to build the rockets before they lift off from the launch pad. It has been primarily used by 3 rockets: the Saturn V, the Space Shuttle, and SLS or Space Launch System. The smaller part of the building has the Low Bays, and the main part of the building has the High Bays. There are 4 High Bays, and then down the center of the building is the Transfer Aisle. Large yellow cranes help move the pieces of the rocket. There's the Transfer Aisle Crane and then the 4 High Bay Cranes. As the rockets are assembled there are retraceable Work Platforms that can be moved in to enclose the rocket. The Crawler-Transporter helps move the rockets to the launch pad along the Crawlerway. Feb 5, 2018The construction of the NASA Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) at Kennedy Space Center in the 1960s.Quick factsConstruction Started: 1963Completed: 1966Contractor: Morrison-Knudsen (MK) Structural steel mass: 98,590 tonsHeight: 525 feet tall, 160 metersArea: 8 acres


--- [KSC Vehicle Assembly Building | About NASA's Rocket Factory] ---
The Vehicle Assembly Building is an engineering marvel whose origins lie in the space race to put humans on the moon. Its construction started in 1963 and was completed in 1966. The VAB was created to store and assemble the parts of the Saturn V rockets and make them flight-ready. After the Apollo program ended the VAB building configurations were remodeled to suit the Space Shuttle program. NASA planned to use the VAB for the Constellation program next. However, the program was cancelled in 2010. The current project at the VAB is the preparation and assembly of the Space Launch System (SLS) and the Orion spacecraft, which are set to help take humans back to the Moon under the Artemis program. Commercial use of the VAB is also underway to transform it into a global spaceport.


--- [VAB named National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark] ---
NEWSVehicle Assembly Building at KSC Designated as National Civil Engineering Landmark Craig BaileyFlorida TodayJan. 10, 2020, 6:35 p.m. ETThe American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark in a ceremony Friday at KSC.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYKennedy Space Center Director Robert Cabana addresses the crowd during Friday's ceremony dedicating the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmarkCraig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYKennedy Space Center director Robert Cabana and Peter Moore, Region 5 Director of the American Society of Civil Engineers, hold a plaque dedicating the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark during Friday's ceremony in front of the facility.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYPeter Moore, Region 5 Director of the American Society of Civil Engineers, and Kennedy Space Center director Robert Cabana hold a plaque dedicating the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark during a ceremony in front of the facility Friday morning.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYChris Sharek, Florida Section President of the American Society of Civil Engineers, addresses the crowd during a ceremony Friday morning dedicating the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYThe American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark in a ceremony Friday at KSC.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYKevin Thibault, Secretary of the Florida Department of Transportation, addresses the crowd in front of the Vehicle Assembly Building at Kennedy Space Center. The American Society of Civil Engineers held a ceremony Friday morning dedicating the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYThe American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark in a ceremony Friday at KSC.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYThe American Society of Civil Engineers has named the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark in a ceremony Friday at KSC.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYKennedy Space Center director Robert Cabana and Peter Moore, Region 5 Director of the American Society of Civil Engineers, hold a plaque dedicating the Vehicle Assembly Building at KSC as a national historic civil engineering landmark during Friday's ceremony in front of the facility.Craig Bailey/FLORIDA TODAYFeatured Weekly Ad
