=== SEARCH SNIPPETS ===

[Hegel’s Aesthetics - Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy]
Jan 20, 2009 · The philosophy of spirit is in turn divided into three sections: on subjective, objective and absolute spirit. Hegel’s philosophy of art or “aesthetics” constitutes the first sub-section of his philosophy of absolute spirit, and is followed by his philosophy of religion and his account of the history of philosophy.
URL: https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/hegel-aesthetics/

[Romantic Arts - hegel.net]
Romantic Arts in the philosophical system of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
URL: https://hegel.net/en/e33133.htm

[Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich (1770–1831) - Encyclopedia.com]
The three romantic arts of painting, music, and poetry differ from the arts of sculpture and architecture, according to Hegel, by being more "ideal." One thing he seems to have meant was that the productions of these arts are not three-dimensional like the productions of architecture and sculpture.
URL: https://www.encyclopedia.com/humanities/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/hegel-georg-wilhelm-friedrich-1770-1831

[Hegel's Classification of Romantic Arts | PDF | Georg Wilhelm ...]
This document provides a summary of Hegel's analysis of different artistic styles and his system for classifying the arts. It outlines three styles - simple/severe, ideal/beautiful, and graceful. It then describes Hegel's system which ranks the arts based on their ability to express the ideal, with architecture expressing it the least vaguely and poetry expressing it the most universally. The ...
URL: https://www.scribd.com/document/637083449/Analysis-of-Hegel-s-Aesthetics

[Lectures on Fine Art by Hegel - Marxists Internet Archive]
Source: G.W.F. Hegel (edited by Hotho) “Aesthetics: Lectures on Fine Art,” Vol. 1 Translated: by T. M. Knox, 1973. See also Lectures on Aesthetics
URL: https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/works/ae/contents.htm


=== FULL EXTRACTED CONTENT ===


--- [Hegel’s Aesthetics - Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy] ---
Hegel’s Aesthetics G.W.F. Hegel’s aesthetics, or philosophy of art, forms part of the extraordinarily rich German aesthetic tradition that stretches from J.J. Winckelmann’s Thoughts on the Imitation of the Painting and Sculpture of the Greeks (1755) and G.E. Lessing’s Laocoon (1766) through Immanuel Kant’s Critique of the Power of Judgment (1790) and Friedrich Schiller’s Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Man (1795) to Friedrich Nietzsche’s Birth of Tragedy (1872) and (in the twentieth century) Martin Heidegger’s The Origin of the Work of Art (1935–6) and T.W. Adorno’s Aesthetic Theory (1970). Hegel was influenced in particular by Winckelmann, Kant and Schiller, and his own thesis of the “end of art” (or what has been taken to be that thesis) has itself been the focus of close attention by Heidegger and Adorno. Hegel’s philosophy of art is a wide ranging account of beauty in art, the historical development of art, and the individual arts of architecture, sculpture, painting, music and poetry. It contains distinctive and influential analyses of Egyptian art, Greek sculpture, and ancient and modern tragedy, and is regarded by many as one of the greatest aesthetic theories to have been produced since Aristotle’s Poetics. - 1. Hegel’s Knowledge of Art - 2. Hegel’s Texts and Lectures on Aesthetics - 3. Art, Religion and Philosophy in Hegel’s System - 4. Kant, Schiller and Hegel on Beauty and Freedom - 5. Art and Idealization - 6. Hegel’s Systematic Aesthetics or Philosophy of Art - 7. Conclusion - Bibliography - Academic Tools - Other Internet Resources - Related Entries 1. Hegel’s Knowledge of Art Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit (1807) contains chapters on the ancient Greek “religion of art” (Kunstreligion) and on the world-view presented in Sophocles’ Antigone and Oedipus the King. His philosophy of art proper, however, forms part of his philosophy (rather than phenomenology) of spirit. The Phenomenology can be regarded as the introduction to Hegel’s philosophical system. The system itself comprises three parts: logic, philosophy of nature, and philosophy of spirit, and is set out (in numbered paragraphs) in Hegel’s Encyclopaedia of the philosophical Sciences (1817, 1827, 1830). The philosophy of spirit is in turn divided into three sections: on subjective, objective and absolute spirit. Hegel’s philosophy of art or “aesthetics” constitutes the first sub-section of his philosophy of absolute spirit, and is followed by his philosophy of religion and his account of the history of philosophy. Hegel’s philosophy of art provides an a priori derivation—from the very concept of beauty itself—of various forms of beauty and various individual arts. In marked contrast to Kant, however, Hegel weaves into his philosophical study of beauty numerous references to and analyses of individual works of art—to such an extent, indeed, that his aesthetics constitutes, in Kai Hammermeister’s words, “a veritable world history of art” (Hammermeister, 24). Hegel read both Greek and Latin (indeed, he wrote his diary partly in Latin from the age of fourteen); he also read English and French. He was thus able to study the works of Homer, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Virgil, Shakespeare and Molière in the original languages. He never travelled to Greece or Italy, but he did undertake several long journeys from Berlin (where he was appointed Professor in 1818) to Dresden (1820, 1821, 1824), the Low Countries (1822, 1827), Vienna (1824) and Paris (1827). On these journeys he saw Raphael’s Sistine Madonna and several paintings by Correggio (in Dresden), Rembrandt’s Night Watch (in Amsterdam), the central section of the van Eyck brothers’ Adoration of the Lamb (in Ghent)—the wing panels were at that time in Berlin—and “famous items by the noblest masters one has seen a hundred times in copper engravings: Raphael, Correggio, Leonardo da Vinci, Titian” (in Paris) (Hegel: The Letters, 654). He liked to visit the theatre and opera, both on his travels and in Berlin, and he was acquainted with leading singers, such as Anna Milder-Hauptmann (who sang in the first production of Beethoven’s Fidelio in 1814), as well as the composer Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy (whose revival of J.S. Bach’s St Matthew Passion Hegel attended in March 1829). Hegel was also on close personal terms with Goethe and knew his drama and poetry especially well (as he did those of Friedrich Schiller). Adorno complains that “Hegel and Kant [ … ] were able to write major aesthetics without understanding anything about art” (Adorno, 334). This may or may not be true of Kant, but it is clearly quite untrue of Hegel: he had an extensive knowledge and a good understanding of many of the great works of art in the Western tradition. Nor was Hegel’s knowledge and interest restricted to Western art: he read (in translation) works of Indian and Persian poetry, and he saw at first hand works of Egyptian art in Berlin (Pöggeler 1981, 206–8). Hegel’s philosophy of art is thus an a priori derivation of the various forms of beauty that, pace Adorno, is informed and mediated by a thorough knowledge and understanding of individual works of art from around the world. 2. Hegel’s Texts and Lectures on Aesthetics Hegel’s published thoughts on aesthetics are to be found in pars. 556–63 of the 1830 Encyclopaedia. Hegel also held lectures on aesthetics in Heidelberg in 1818 and in Berlin in 1820/21 (winter semester), 1823 and 1826 (summer semesters), and 1828/29 (winter semester). Transcripts of Hegel’s Berlin lectures made by his students have now been published (though so far only the 1823 lectures have been translated into English) (see Bibliography). Further, hitherto unknown transcripts of Hegel’s Heidelberg lectures on aesthetics were discovered in 2022 by Klaus Vieweg (Jena) in the Freising Cathedral library in Germany. These transcripts, which were written by Hegel’s assistant F.W. Carové, are part of a collection of transcripts on different topics, which numbers approximately 5,000 pages and whose discovery drew worldwide attention when it was announced. The transcripts are currently being edited and prepared for publication by a team led by Vieweg. In 1835 (and then again in 1842) one of Hegel’s students, Heinrich Gustav Hotho, published an edition of Hegel’s lectures on aesthetics based on a manuscript of Hegel’s (now lost) and a series of lecture transcripts. This is available in English as: G.W.F. Hegel, Aesthetics. Lectures on Fine Art, trans. T.M. Knox, 2 vols. (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1975). Most of the secondary literature on Hegel’s aesthetics (in English and German) makes reference to Hotho’s edition. Yet according to one of the leading specialists on Hegel’s aesthetics, Annemarie Gethmann-Siefert, Hotho distorted Hegel’s thought in various ways: he gave Hegel’s account of art a much stricter systematic structure than Hegel himself had given it, and he supplemented Hegel’s account with material of his own (PKÄ, xiii–xv). Gethmann-Siefert argues, therefore, that we should not rely on Hotho’s edition for our understanding of Hegel’s aesthetics, but should instead base our interpretation on the available lecture transcripts. Since Hegel’s manuscript, on which Hotho based much of his edition, has been lost, it is no longer possible to determine with certainty to what extent (if at all) Hotho did in fact distort Hegel’s account of art. It should also be noted that Gethmann-Siefert’s own interpretation of Hegel’s aesthetics has been called into question (see Houlgate 1986a). Nevertheless Gethmann-Siefert is right to encourage readers with a knowledge of German to consult the published transcripts, since they contain a wealth of important material, and in some cases material that is missing from the Hotho edition (such as the brief reference to Caspar David Friedrich in the 1820/21 lectures [VÄ, 192]). Hegel’s philosophy of art has provoked considerable debate since his death in 1831. Does he believe that only Greek art is beautiful? Does he hold that art comes to an end in the modern age? The answers one gives to such questions should, however, be offered with a degree of caution, for, sadly, there is no fully worked out philosophy of art by Hegel that was officially endorsed by Hegel himself. The paragraphs in the Encyclopaedia are written by Hegel, but they are very brief and condensed and were intended to be supplemented by his lectures; the transcripts of the lectures are written by students of Hegel (some taken down in class, some compiled afterwards from notes taken in class); and the “standard” edition of Hegel’s lectures is a work put together by his student, Hotho (albeit using a manuscript by Hegel himself). There is, therefore, no definitive edition of Hegel’s fully developed aesthetic theory that would trump all others and settle all debate. 3. Art, Religion and Philosophy in Hegel’s System Hegel’s philosophy of art forms part of his overall philosophical system. In order to understand his philosophy of art, therefore, one must understand the main claims of his philosophy as a whole. Hegel argues in his speculative logic that being is to be understood as self-determining reason or “Idea” (Idee). In the philosophy of nature, however, he goes on to show that logic tells only half the story: for such reason is not something abstract—is not a disembodied logos—but takes the form of rationally organized matter. What there is, according to Hegel, is thus not just pure reason but physical, chemical and living matter that obeys rational principles. Life is more explicitly rational than mere physical matter because it is more explicitly self-determining. Life itself becomes more explicitly rational and self-determining when it becomes conscious and self-conscious—that is, life that can imagine, use language, think and exercise freedom. Such self-conscious life Hegel calls “spirit” (Geist). Reason, or the Idea, comes to be fully self-determining and rational, therefore, when it takes the form of self-conscious spirit. This occurs, in Hegel’s view, with the emergence of human existence. Human beings, for Hegel, are thus not just accidents of nature; they are reason itself—the reason inherent in nature—that has come to life and come to consciousness of itself. Beyond human beings (or other finite rational beings that might exist on other planets), there is no self-conscious reason in Hegel’s universe. In his philosophy of objective spirit Hegel analyses the institutional structures that are required if spirit—that is, humanity—is to be properly free and self-determining. These include the institutions of right, the family, civil society and the state. In the philosophy of absolute spirit Hegel then analyses the different ways in which spirit articulates its ultimate, “absolute” understanding of itself. The highest, most developed and most adequate understanding of spirit is attained by philosophy (the bare bones of whose understanding of the world have just been sketched). Philosophy provides an explicitly rational, conceptual understanding of the nature of reason or the Idea. It explains precisely why reason must take the form of space, time, matter, life and self-conscious spirit. In religion—above all in Christianity—spirit gives expression to the same understanding of reason and of itself as philosophy. In religion, however, the process whereby the Idea becomes self-conscious spirit is represented—in images and metaphors—as the process whereby “God” becomes the “Holy Spirit” dwelling in humanity. Furthermore, this process is one in which we put our faith and trust: it is the object of feeling and belief, rather than purely conceptual understanding. In Hegel’s view, philosophy and religion—which is to say, Hegel’s own speculative philosophy and Christianity—both understand the same truth. Religion, however, believes in a representation of the truth, whereas philosophy understands that truth with complete conceptual clarity. It may seem strange that we would need religion, if we have philosophy: surely the latter makes the former redundant. For Hegel, however, humanity cannot live by concepts alone, but also needs to picture, imagine, and have faith in the truth. Indeed, Hegel claims that it is in religion above all that “a nation defines what it considers to be true” (Lectures on the Philosophy of World History, 105). Art, for Hegel, also gives expression to spirit’s understanding of itself. It differs from philosophy and religion, however, by expressing spirit’s self-understanding not in pure concepts, or in the images of faith, but in and through objects that have been specifically made for this purpose by human beings. Such objects—conjured out of stone, wood, color, sound or words—render the freedom of spirit visible or audible to an audience. In Hegel’s view, this sensuous expression of free spirit constitutes beauty. The purpose of art, for Hegel, is thus the creation of beautiful objects in which the true character of freedom is given sensuous expression. The principal aim of art is not, therefore, to imitate nature, to decorate our surroundings, to prompt us to engage in moral or political action, or to shock us out of our complacency. It is to allow us to contemplate and enjoy created images of our own spiritual freedom—images that are beautiful precisely because they give expression to our freedom. Art’s purpose, in other words, is to enable us to bring to mind the truth about ourselves, and so to become aware of who we truly are. Art is there not just for art’s sake, but for beauty’s sake, that is, for the sake of a distinctively sensuous form of human self-expression and self-understanding. 4. Kant, Schiller and Hegel on Beauty and Freedom Hegel’s close association of art with beauty and freedom shows his clear indebtedness to Kant and Schiller. Kant also maintained that our experience of beauty is an experience of freedom. He argued, however, that beauty is not itself an objective property of things. When we judge that a natural object or a work of art is beautiful, on Kant’s view, we are indeed making a judgment about an object, but we are asserting that the object has a certain effect on us (and that it should have the same effect on all who view it). The effect produced by the “beautiful” object is to set our understanding and imagination in “free play” with one another, and it is the pleasure generated by this free play that leads us to judge the object to be beautiful (Kant, 98, 102–3). In contrast to Kant, Schiller understands beauty to be a property of the object itself. It is the property, possessed by both living beings and works of art, of appearing to be free when in fact they are not. As Schiller puts it in the “Kallias” letters, beauty is “freedom in appearance, autonomy in appearance” (Schiller, 151). Schiller insists that freedom itself is something “noumenal” (to use Kant’s terminology) and so can never actually manifest itself in the realm of the senses. We can never see freedom at work in, or embodied in, the world of space and time. In the case of beautiful objects, therefore—whether they are the products of nature or human imagination—“it is all that matters [ … ] that the object appears as free, not that it really is so” (Schiller, 151). Hegel agrees with Schiller (against Kant) that beauty is an objective property of things. In his view, however, beauty is the direct sensuous manifestation of freedom, not merely the appearance or imitation of freedom. It shows us what freedom actually looks like and sounds like when it gives itself sensuous expression (albeit with varying degrees of idealization). Since true beauty is the direct sensuous expression of the freedom of spirit, it must be produced by free spirit for free spirit, and so cannot be a mere product of nature. Nature is capable of a formal beauty, and life is capable of what Hegel calls “sensuous” beauty (PK, 197), but true beauty is found only in works of art that are freely created by human beings to bring before our minds what it is to be free spirit. Beauty, for Hegel, has certain formal qualities: it is the unity or harmony of different elements in which these elements are not just arranged in a regular, symmetrical pattern but are unified organically. Hegel gives an example of genuinely beautiful form in his discussion of Greek sculpture: the famous Greek profile is beautiful, we are told, because the forehead and the nose flow seamlessly into one another, in contrast to the Roman profile in which there is a much sharper angle between the forehead and nose (Aesthetics, 2: 727–30). Beauty, however, is not just a matter of form; it is also a matter of content. This is one of Hegel’s most controversial ideas, and is one that sets him at odds with those modern artists and art-theorists who insist that art can embrace any content we like and, indeed, can dispense with content altogether. As we have seen, the content that Hegel claims is central and indispensable to genuine beauty (and therefore genuine art) is the freedom and richness of spirit. To put it another way, that content is the Idea, or absolute reason, as self-knowing spirit. Since the Idea is pictured in religion as “God,” the content of truly beautiful art is in one respect the divine. Yet, as we have seen above, Hegel argues that the Idea (or “God”) comes to consciousness of itself only in and through finite human beings. The content of beautiful art must thus be the divine in human form or the divine within humanity itself (as well as purely human freedom). Hegel recognizes that art can portray animals, plants and inorganic nature, but he sees it as art’s principal task to present divine and human freedom. In both cases, the focus of attention is on the human figure in particular. This is because, in Hegel’s view, the most appropriate sensuous incarnation of reason and the clearest visible expression of spirit is the human form. Colors and sounds by themselves can certainly communicate a mood, but only the human form actually embodies spirit and reason. Truly beautiful art thus shows us sculpted, painted or poetic images of Greek gods or of Jesus Christ—that is, the divine in human form—or it shows us images of free human life itself. 5. Art and Idealization Art, for Hegel, is essentially figurative. This is not because it seeks to imitate nature, but because its purpose is to express and embody free spirit and this is achieved most adequately through images of human beings. (We will consider the exceptions to this—architecture and music—below.) More specifically, art’s role is to bring to mind truths about ourselves and our freedom that we often lose sight of in our everyday activity. Its role is to show us (or remind us of) the true character of freedom. Art fulfills this role by showing us the freedom of spirit in its purest form without the contingencies of everyday life. That is to say, art at its best presents us not with the all too familiar dependencies and drudgery of daily existence, but with the ideal of freedom (see Aesthetics, 1: 155–6). This ideal of human (and divine) freedom constitutes true beauty and is found above all, Hegel claims, in ancient Greek sculptures of gods and heroes. Note that the work of idealization is undertaken not (like modern fashion photography) to provide an escape from life into a world of fantasy, but to enable us to see our freedom more clearly. Idealization is undertaken, therefore, in the interests of a clearer revelation of the true character of humanity (and of the divine). The paradox is that art communicates truth through idealized images of human beings (and indeed—in painting—through the illusion of external reality). It is worth noting at this stage that Hegel’s account of art is meant to be both descriptive and normative. Hegel thinks that the account he gives describes the principal features of the greatest works of art in the Western tradition, such as the sculptures of Phidias or Praxiteles or the dramas of Aeschylus or Sophocles. At the same time, his account is normative in so far as it tells us what true art is. There are many things that we call “art”: cave paintings, a child’s drawing, Greek sculpture, Shakespeare’s plays, adolescent love poetry, and (in the twentieth century) Carl André’s bricks. Not everything called “art” deserves the name, however, because not everything so called does what true art is meant to do: namely, give sensuous expression to free spirit and thereby create works of beauty. Hegel does not prescribe strict rules for the production of beauty; but he does set out broad criteria that truly beautiful art must meet, and he is critical of work that claims to be “art” but that fails to meet these criteria. Hegel’s critique of certain developments in post-Reformation art—such as the aspiration to do no more than imitate nature—is thus based, not on contingent personal preferences, but on his philosophical understanding of the true nature and purpose of art. 6. Hegel’s Systematic Aesthetics or Philosophy of Art Hegel’s philosophical account of art and beauty has three parts: 1) ideal beauty as such, or beauty proper, 2) the different forms that beauty takes in history, and 3) the different arts in which beauty is encountered. We will look first at Hegel’s account of ideal beauty as such. 6.1 Ideal Beauty as such Hegel is well aware that art can perform various functions: it can teach, edify, provoke, adorn, and so on. His concern, however, is to identify art’s proper and most distinctive function. This, he claims, is to give intuitive, sensuous expression to the freedom of spirit. The point of art, therefore, is not to be “realistic”—to imitate or mirror the contingencies of everyday life—but to show us what divine and human freedom look like. Such sensuous expression of spiritual freedom is what Hegel calls the “Ideal,” or true beauty. The realm of the sensuous is the realm of individual things in space and time. Freedom is given sensuous expression, therefore, when it is embodied in an individual who stands alone in his or her “self-enjoyment, repose, and bliss [Seligkeit]” (Aesthetics, 1: 179). Such an individual must not be abstract and formal (as, for example, in the early Greek Geometric style), nor should he be static and rigid (as in much ancient Egyptian sculpture), but his body and posture should be visibly animated by freedom and life, without, however, sacrificing the stillness and serenity that belongs to ideal self-containment. Such ideal beauty, Hegel claims, is found above all in fifth- and fourth-century Greek sculptures of the gods, such as the Dresden Zeus (a cast of which Hegel saw in the early 1820s) or Praxiteles’ Cnidian Aphrodite (see PKÄ, 143 and Houlgate 2007, 58). Ancient Greek sculpture, which Hegel would have known almost exclusively from Roman copies or from plaster casts, presents what he calls pure or “absolute” beauty (PKÄ, 124). It does not, however, exhaust the idea of beauty, for it does not give us beauty in its most concrete and developed form. This we find in ancient Greek drama—especially tragedy—in which free individuals proceed to action that leads to conflict and, finally, to resolution (sometimes violently, as in Sophocles’ Antigone, sometimes peacefully, as in Aeschylus’ Oresteian trilogy). The gods represented in Greek sculpture are beautiful because their physical shape perfectly embodies their spiritual freedom and is not marred by marks of physical frailty or dependence. The principal heroes and heroines of Greek tragedy are beautiful because their free activity is informed and animated by an ethical interest or “pathos” (such as care for the family, as in the case of Antigone, or concern for the welfare of the state, as in the case of Creon), rather than by petty human foibles or passions. These heroes are not allegorical representations of abstract virtues, but are living human beings with imagination, character and free will; but what moves them is a passion for an aspect of our ethical life, an aspect that is supported and promoted by a god. This distinction between pure beauty, found in Greek sculpture, and the more concrete beauty found in Greek drama means that ideal beauty actually takes two subtly different forms. Beauty takes these different forms because pure sculptural beauty—though it is the pinnacle of art’s achievement—has a certain abstractness about it. Beauty is the sensuous expression of freedom and so must exhibit the concreteness, animation and humanity that are missing, for example, in Egyptian sculpture. Yet since pure beauty, as exemplified by Greek sculpture, is spiritual freedom immersed in spatial, bodily shape, it lacks the more concrete dynamism of action in time, action that is animated by imagination and language. This is what lends a certain “abstractness” (and, indeed, coldness) to pure beauty (PKÄ, 57, 125). If art’s role is to give sensuous expression to true freedom, however, it must move beyond abstraction towards concreteness. This means that it must move beyond pure beauty to the more concrete and genuinely human beauty of drama. These two kinds of ideal beauty thus constitute the most appropriate objects of art and, taken together, form what Hegel calls the “centre” (Mittelpunkt) of art itself (PKÄ, 126). 6.2 The Particular Forms of Art Hegel also acknowledges that art can, indeed must, both fall short of and go beyond such ideal beauty. It falls short of ideal beauty when it takes the form of symbolic art, and it goes beyond such beauty when it takes the form of romantic art. The form of art that is characterized by works of ideal beauty itself is classical art. These are the three forms of art (Kunstformen), or “forms of the beautiful” (PKÄ, 68), that Hegel believes are made necessary by the very idea of art itself. The development of art from one form to another generates what Hegel regards as the distinctive history of art. What produces these three art-forms is the changing relation between the content of art—the Idea as spirit—and its mode of presentation. The changes in this relation are in turn determined by the way in which the content of art is itself conceived. In symbolic art the content is conceived abstractly, such that it is not able to manifest itself adequately in a sensuous, visible form. In classical art, by contrast, the content is conceived in such a way that it is able to find perfect expression in sensuous, visible form. In romantic art, the content is conceived in such a way that it is able to find adequate expression in sensuous, visible form and yet also ultimately transcends the realm of the sensuous and visible. Classical art is the home of ideal beauty proper, whereas romantic art is the home of what Hegel calls the “beauty of inwardness” (Schönheit der Innigkeit) or, as Knox translates it, “beauty of deep feeling” (Aesthetics, 1: 531). Symbolic art, by contrast, falls short of genuine beauty altogether. This does not mean that it is simply bad art: Hegel recognizes that symbolic art is often the product of the highest level of artistry. Symbolic art falls short of beauty because it does not yet have a rich enough understanding of the nature of divine and human spirit. The artistic shapes it produces are deficient, therefore, because the conceptions of spirit that underlie it—conceptions that are contained above all in religion—are deficient (PKÄ, 68). 6.2.1 Symbolic Art Hegel’s account of symbolic art encompasses the art of many different civilizations and shows his considerable understanding of, and appreciation for, non-Western art. Not all of the types of symbolic art Hegel discusses, however, are fully and properly symbolic. So what connects them all? The fact that they all belong to the sphere of what Hegel calls “pre-art” (Vorkunst) (PKÄ, 73). Art proper, for Hegel, is the sensuous expression or manifestation of free spirit in a medium (such as metal, stone or color) that has been deliberately shaped or worked by human beings into the expression of freedom. The sphere of “pre-art” comprises art that falls short of art proper in some way. This is either because it is the product of a spirit that does not yet understand itself to be truly free, or because it is the product of a spirit that does have a sense of its own freedom but does not yet understand such freedom to involve the manifestation of itself in a sensuous medium that has been specifically shaped to that end. In either case, compared to genuine art, “pre-art” rests on a relatively abstract conception of spirit. Hegel’s intention in his account of symbolic art is not to comment exhaustively on every kind of “pre-art” there is. He says nothing, for example, about prehistoric art (such as cave painting), nor does he discuss Chinese art or Buddhist art (even though he discusses both Chinese religion and Buddhism in his lectures on the philosophy of religion). Hegel’s aim in his account of symbolic art is to examine the various kinds of art that are made necessary by the very concept of art itself, the stages through which art has to pass on its journey from pre-art to art proper. The first stage is that in which spirit is conceived as being in an immediate unity with nature. This stage is encountered in the ancient Persian religion of Zoroastrianism. The Zoroastrians, Hegel claims, believe in a divine power—the Good—but they identify this divinity with an aspect of nature itself, namely with light. Light does not symbolize or point to a separate God or Good; rather, in Zoroastrianism (as Hegel understands it) light is the Good, is God (Aesthetics, 1: 325). Light is thus the substance in all things and that which gives life to all plants and animals. This light, Hegel tells us, is personified as Ormuzd (or Ahura Mazda). Unlike the God of the Jews, however, Ormuzd is not a free, self-conscious subject. He (or it) is the Good in the form of light itself, and so is present in all sources of light, such as the sun, stars and fire. The question we have to ask, Hegel remarks, is whether seeing the Good as light (or giving utterance to such an intuition) counts as art (PKÄ, 76). In Hegel’s view, it does not do so for two reasons: on the one hand, the Good is not understood to be free spirit that is distinct from, but manifests itself in, the light; on the other hand, the sensuous element in which the Good is present—the light itself—is understood not to be something shaped or produced by free spirit for the purpose of its self-expression, but simply to be a given feature of nature with which the Good is immediately identical. In the Zoroastrian vision of the Good as light, we encounter the “sensuous presentation [Darstellung] of the divine” (PKÄ, 76). This vision, however, does not constitute a work of art, even though it finds expression in well-crafted prayers and “sublime” utterances. The second stage in the development of pre-art is that in which there is an immediate difference between spirit and nature. This is found, in Hegel’s view, in Hindu art. The difference between the spiritual and the natural means that the spiritual—i.e., the divine—cannot be understood (as in Persia) to be simply identical with some immediately given aspect of nature. On the other hand, Hegel claims, the divine in Hinduism is conceived in such an abstract and indeterminate way that it acquires determinate form only in and through something immediately sensuous, external and natural. The divine is thus understood to be present in the very form of something sensuous and natural. As Hegel puts it in his 1826 lectures on aesthetics: “natural objects—the human being, animals—are revered as divine” (PKÄ, 79). Hindu art marks the difference between the spiritual (or divine) and the merely natural by extending, exaggerating and distorting the natural forms in which the divine is imagined to be present. The divine is portrayed not in the purely natural form of an animal or human being, therefore, but in the unnaturally distorted form of an animal or human being. (Shiva is portrayed with many arms, for example, and Brahma with four faces.) Hegel notes that such portrayal involves the work of “shaping” or “forming” the medium of expression (PKÄ, 78). In that sense, one can speak of Hindu “art.” He claims, however, that Hindu art does not fulfill the true purpose of art because it does not give appropriate and adequate shape to free spirit and thereby create images of beauty. Rather, it simply distorts the natural shape of animals and human beings—to the point at which they become “ugly” (unschön), “monstrous,” “grotesque” or “bizarre” (PKÄ, 78, 84)—in order to show that the divine or spiritual, which cannot be understood except in terms of the natural and sensuous, is at the same time different from, and finds no adequate expression in, the realm of the natural and sensuous. Hindu divinity is inseparable from natural forms, but it indicates its distinctive presence by the unnaturalness of the natural forms it adopts. Hegel’s judgment on Hindu art does not mean, by the way, that he finds no merit at all in such art. He remarks on the splendor of Hindu art and on the “most tender feeling” and the “wealth of the finest sensuous naturalness” that such art can display. He insists, however, that Hindu art fails to reach the height of art, in which spirit is shown to be free in itself and is given appropriate natural, visible shape (PKÄ, 84). The third stage in the development of “pre-art” is that of genuinely symbolic art in which shapes and images are deliberately designed and created to point to a determinate and quite separate sphere of “interiority” (Innerlichkeit) (PKÄ, 86). This is the province of ancient Egyptian art. The Egyptians, Hegel tells us, were the first people to “fix” (fixieren) the idea of spirit as something inward that is separate and independent in itself (PKÄ, 85). (In this context he refers to Herodotus, who maintained that the Egyptians were “the first people to put forward the doctrine of the immortality of the soul” [Herodotus, 145 [2: 123]].) Spirit, as Hegel understands it (in his philosophy of subjective and objective spirit), is the activity of externalizing and expressing itself in images, words, actions and institutions. With the idea of spirit as “interiority,” therefore, there necessarily comes the drive to give an external shape to this inner spirit, that is, to produce a shape for spirit from out of spirit itself. The drive to create shapes and images—works of art—through which the inner realm can make itself known is thus an “instinct” in the Egyptians that is deeply rooted in the way they understand spirit. In this sense, in Hegel’s view, Egyptian civilization is a more profoundly artistic civilization than that of the Hindus (Aesthetics, 1: 354; PKÄ, 86). Egyptian art, however, is only symbolic art, not art in its full sense. This is because the created shapes and images of Egyptian art do not give direct, adequate expression to spirit, but merely point to, or symbolize, an interiority that remains hidden from view. Furthermore, the inner spirit, though fixed in the Egyptian understanding as a “separate, independent inwardness” (PKÄ, 86), is not itself understood as fully free spirit. Indeed, the realm of spirit is understood by the Egyptians to a large degree as the simple negation of the realm of nature and life. That is to say, it is understood above all as the realm of the dead. The fact that death is the principal realm in which the independence of the soul is preserved explains why the doctrine of the immortality of the soul is so important to the Egyptians. It also explains why Hegel sees the pyramid as the image that epitomizes Egyptian symbolic art. The pyramid is a created shape that hides within it something separate from it, namely a dead body. It thus serves as the perfect image of Egyptian symbols which point to, but do not themselves reveal and express, a realm of interiority that is independent but still lacks the freedom and life of genuine spirit (Aesthetics, 1: 356). For Hegel, Greek art contains symbolic elements (such as the eagle to symbolize the power of Zeus), but the core of Greek art is not the symbol. Egyptian art, by contrast, is symbolic through and through. Indeed, Egyptian consciousness as a whole, in Hegel’s view, is essentially symbolic. Animals, for example, are regarded as symbols or masks of something deeper, and so animal faces are often used as masks (by amongst others, embalmers). Symbolism can also be multi-layered: the image of the phoenix, Hegel claims, symbolizes natural (especially, celestial) processes of disappearance and reemergence, but those processes are themselves viewed as symbols of spiritual rebirth (PKÄ, 87). As noted above, the pyramid epitomizes the symbolic art of the Egyptians. Such art, however, does not just point symbolically to the realm of the dead; it also bears witness to an incipient but still undeveloped awareness that true inwardness is found in the living human spirit. It does so, Hegel maintains, by showing the human spirit struggling to emerge from the animal. The image that best depicts this emergence is, of course, that of the sphinx (which has the body of a lion and the head of a human being). The human form is also mixed with that of animals in images of gods, such as Horus (who has a human body and a falcon’s head). Such images, however, do not constitute art in the full sense because they fail to give adequate expression to free spirit in the form of the fully human being. They are mere symbols that partially disclose an interiority whose true character remains hidden from view (and mysterious even to the Egyptians themselves). Even when the human form is depicted in Egyptian art without adulteration, it is still not animated by a genuinely free and living spirit and so does not become the shape of freedom itself. Figures, such as the Memnon Colossi of Amenhotep III in Western Thebes, display no “freedom of movement” (PKÄ, 89), in Hegel’s view, and other smaller figures, which stand with their arms pressed to their sides and their feet firmly planted on the ground, lack “grace [Grazie] of movement.” Egyptian sculpture is praised by Hegel as “worthy of admiration”; indeed, he claims that under the Ptolemies (305–30 B.C.) Egyptian sculpture exhibited great “delicacy” (or “elegance”) (Zierlichkeit). Nonetheless, for all its merits, Egyptian art does not give shape to real freedom and life and so fails to fulfill the true purpose of art. The fourth stage of pre-art is that in which spirit gains such a degree of freedom and independence that spirit and nature “fall apart” (PKÄ, 89). This stage is in turn sub-divided into three. The first sub-division comprises sublime art: the poetic art of the Jewish people. In Judaism, Hegel maintains, spirit is understood to be fully free and independent. This freedom and independence is, however, attributed to the divine rather than the human spirit. God is thus conceived as a “free spiritual subject” (PKÄ, 75), who is the creator of the world and the power over everything natural and finite. That which is natural and finite is, by contrast, regarded as something “negative” in relation to God, that is, as something that does not exist for its own sake but that has been created to serve God (PKÄ, 90). Judaic spirituality, in Hegel’s view, is not capable of producing works of true beauty because the Jewish God transcends the world of nature and finitude and cannot manifest itself in that world and be given visible shape in it. Jewish poetry (the Psalms) gives expression, rather, to the sublimity of God by praising and exalting Him as the source of all things. At the same time, such poetry gives “brilliant” (glänzend) expression to the pain and fear felt by the sinful in relation to their Lord (PKÄ, 91). The second sub-division of this fourth stage of pre-art comprises what Hegel calls “oriental pantheism” and is found in the poetry of Islamic “Arabs, Persians, and Turks” (PKÄ, 93), such as the Persian lyric poet Hafez (German: Hafis) (c. 1310–1389). In such pantheism, God is also understood to stand sublimely above and apart from the realm of the finite and natural, but his relation to that realm is held to be affirmative, rather than negative. The divine raises things to their own magnificence, fills them with spirit, gives them life and in this sense is actually immanent in things (Aesthetics, 1: 368; PKÄ, 93). This in turn determines the relation that the poet has to objects. For the poet, too, is free and independent of things, but also has an affirmative relation to them. That is to say, he feels an identity with things and sees his own untroubled freedom reflected in them. Such pantheism thus comes close to genuine art, for it uses natural objects, such as a rose, as poetic “images” (Bilder) of its own feeling of “cheerful, blessed inwardness” (PKÄ, 94–5). The pantheistic spirit remains, however, free within itself in distinction from and in relation to natural objects; it does not create shapes of its own—such as the idealized figures of the Greek gods—in which its freedom comes directly into view. (Note, by the way, that in the Hotho edition of Hegel’s lectures on aesthetics pantheistic Islamic poetry is placed before, rather than after, the poetry of Judaism; see Aesthetics, 1: 364–77.) The third sub-division of the fourth stage of pre-art is that in which there is the clearest break between spirit and the realm of the natural or sensuous. At this stage, the spiritual aspect—that which is inner and, as it were, invisible—takes the form of something quite separate and distinct. It is also something finite and limited: an idea or meaning entertained by human beings. The sensuous element is in turn something separate and distinct from the meaning. It has no intrinsic connection to the meaning, but is, as Hegel puts it, “external” to that meaning. The sensuous element—the pictorial or poetic image—is thus connected with the meaning by nothing but the subjective “wit” or imagination of the poet (PKÄ, 95). This occurs, Hegel maintains, in fables, parables, allegories, metaphors and similes. This third sub-division is not associated with any particular civilization, but is a form of expression that is found in many different ones. Hegel contends, however, that allegory, metaphor and simile do not constitute the core of truly beautiful art, because they do not present us with the very freedom of spirit itself, but point to (and so symbolize) a meaning that is separate and independent. A metaphor, such as “Achilles is a lion,” does not embody the spirit of the individual hero in the way that a Greek sculpture does, but is a metaphor for something that is distinct from the metaphor itself (see Aesthetics, 1: 402–8; PKÄ, 104). Hegel’s account of symbolic art (or “pre-art”) draws widely on the work of other writers, such as his former colleague at Heidelberg, Georg Friedrich Creuzer, the author of Symbolism and Mythology of Ancient Peoples, especially the Greeks (1810–12). Hegel’s account is not meant to be strictly historical, but rather to place the various forms of pre-art discussed in a logical relation to one another. This relation is determined by the degree to which, in each form of pre-art, spirit and nature (or the sensuous) are differentiated from one another. To recapitulate: in Zoroastrianism, spirit and nature are in immediate identity with one another (as the Light). In Hindu art, there is an immediate difference between the spiritual (the divine) and nature, but the spiritual remains abstract and indeterminate in itself and so can be brought to mind only through images of natural things (unnaturally distorted). In Egyptian art, the spiritual is again different from the realm of the merely natural and sensuous. In contrast to the indeterminate divinity of the Hindus, however, Egyptian spirituality (in the form of the gods and of the human soul) is fixed, separate and determinate in itself. The images of Egyptian art thus point symbolically to a realm of spirit that remains hidden from direct view. The spirit to which such symbolic images point, however, lacks genuine freedom and life and is often identified with the realm of the dead. In the sublime poetry of the Jews, God is represented as transcendent and as a “free spiritual subject.” Finite human beings, however, are portrayed in a negative relation to God in that they are created to serve and praise God and are pained by their own sinfulness. In the sublime poetry of “oriental pantheism” God is once again portrayed as transcendent, but, in contrast to Judaism, God and finite things are shown to stand in an affirmative relation to one another: things are infused with spirit and life by God. The poet’s relation to things is, accordingly, one in which his own free spirit finds itself reflected in the natural things around him. In the last stage of pre-art, the difference between the spiritual and the natural (or sensuous) is taken to its limit: the spiritual element (the “meaning”) and the sensuous element (the “shape” or “image”) are now completely independent of, and external to, one another. Furthermore, each is finite and limited. This is the realm of allegory and metaphor. 6.2.2 Classical Art Hegel does not deny the magnificence or elegance of pre-art, but he maintains that it falls short of art proper. The latter is found in classical art, or the art of the ancient Greeks. Classical art, Hegel contends, fulfills the concept of art in that it is the perfect sensuous expression of the freedom of spirit. It is in classical art, therefore—above all in ancient Greek sculpture (and drama)—that true beauty is to be found. Indeed, Hegel maintains, the gods of ancient Greece exhibit “absolute beauty as such”: “there can be nothing more beautiful than the classical; there is the ideal” (PKÄ, 124, 135; see also Aesthetics, 1: 427). Such beauty consists in the perfect fusion of the spiritual and the sensuous (or natural). In true beauty the visible shape before us does not merely intimate the presence of the divine through the unnatural distortion of its form, nor does it point beyond itself to a hidden spirituality or to divine transcendence. Rather, the shape manifests and embodies free spirituality in its very contours. In true beauty, therefore, the visible shape is not a symbol of, or metaphor for, a meaning that lies beyond the shape, but is the expression of spirit’s freedom that brings that freedom directly into view. Beauty is sensuous, visible shape so transformed that it stands as the visible embodiment of freedom itself. Hegel does not deny that Greek art and mythology contain many symbolic elements: the story, for example, that Cronus, the father of Zeus, consumed his own children symbolizes the destructive power of time (Aesthetics, 1: 492; PKÄ, 120). In Hegel’s view, however, the distinctive core of Greek art consists in works of ideal beauty in which the freedom of spirit is made visible for the first time in history. Three conditions had to be met for such beautiful art to be produced. First, the divine had to be understood to be freely self-determining spirit, to be divine subjectivity (not just an abstract power such as the Light). Second, the divine had to be understood to take the form of individuals who could be portrayed in sculpture and drama. The divine had to be conceived, in other words, not as sublimely transcendent, but as spirituality that is embodied in many different ways. The beauty of Greek art thus presupposed Greek polytheism. Third, the proper shape of free spirit had to be recognized to be the human body, not that of an animal. Hindu and Egyptian gods were often portrayed as a fusion of human and animal forms; by contrast, the principal Greek gods were depicted in ideal human form. Hegel notes that Zeus would sometimes take on animal form, for example when he was engaged in seduction; but he sees Zeus’ transformation of himself into a bull for the purpose of seduction as a lingering echo of Egyptian mythology in the Greek world (see PKÄ, 119–20, in which Hegel confuses Io, who in another story was herself changed into a white cow by Zeus to protect her from the jealous Hera, with Europa, who was the object of Zeus’ love in the story Hegel has in mind). Not only do Greek art and beauty presuppose Greek religion and mythology, but Greek religion itself requires art in order to give a determinate identity to the gods. As Hegel notes (following Herodotus), it was the poets Homer and Hesiod who gave the Greeks their gods, and Greek understanding of the gods was developed and expressed above all in their sculpture and drama (rather than in distinctively theological writings) (PKÄ, 123–4). Greek religion thus took the form of what Hegel in the Phenomenology called a “religion of art.” Moreover, Greek art achieved the highest degree of beauty, in Hegel’s view, precisely because it was the highest expression of the freedom of spirit enshrined in Greek religion. Although Greek sculpture and drama achieved unsurpassed heights of beauty, such art did not give expression to the deepest freedom of the spirit. This is because of a deficiency in the Greek conception of divine and human freedom. Greek religion was so well suited to aesthetic expression because the gods were conceived as free individuals who were wholly at one with their bodies and their sensuous life. In other words, they were free spirits still immersed in nature (PKÄ, 132–3). In Hegel’s view, however, a deeper freedom is attained when the spirit withdraws into itself out of nature and becomes pure self-knowing interiority. Such an understanding of spirit is expressed, according to Hegel, in Christianity. The Christian God is thus pure self-knowing spirit and love who created human beings so that they, too, may become such pure spirit and love. With the emergence of Christianity comes a new form of art: romantic art. Hegel uses the term “romantic” to refer not to the art of the late 18th- and early 19th-century German Romantics (many of whom he knew personally), but to the whole tradition of art that emerged in Western Christendom. 6.2.3 Romantic Art Romantic art, like classical art, is the sensuous expression or manifestation of the freedom of spirit. It is thus capable of genuine beauty. The freedom it manifests, however, is a profoundly inward freedom that finds its highest expression and articulation not in art itself but in religious faith and philosophy. Unlike classical art, therefore, romantic art gives expression to a freedom of the spirit whose true home lies beyond art. If classical art can be compared to the human body which is thoroughly suffused with spirit and life, romantic art can be compared to the human face which discloses the spirit and personality within. Since romantic art actually discloses the inner spirit, however, rather than merely pointing to it, it differs from symbolic art which it otherwise resembles. Romantic art, for Hegel, takes three basic forms. The first is that of explicitly religious art. It is in Christianity, Hegel contends, that the true nature of spirit is revealed. What is represented in the story of Christ’s life, death and resurrection is the idea that a truly divine life of freedom and love is at the same time a fully human life in which we are willing to “die” to ourselves and let go of what is most precious to us. Much religious romantic art, therefore, focuses on the suffering and death of Christ. Hegel notes that it is not appropriate in romantic art to depict Christ with the idealized body of a Greek god or hero, because what is central to Christ is his irreducible humanity and mortality. Romantic art, therefore, breaks with the classical ideal of beauty and incorporates real human frailty, pain and suffering into its images of Christ (and also of religious martyrs). Indeed, such art can even go to the point of being “ugly” (unschön) in its depiction of suffering (PKÄ, 136). If, however, romantic art is to fulfill the purpose of art and present true freedom of spirit in the form of beauty, it must show the suffering Christ or suffering martyrs to be imbued with a profound inwardness (Innigkeit) of feeling and a genuine sense of reconciliation (Versöhnung) (PKÄ, 136–7): for such an inward sense of reconciliation, in Hegel’s view, is the deepest spiritual freedom. The sensuous expression (in color or words) of this inner sense of reconciliation constitutes what Hegel calls the “beauty of inwardness” or “spiritual beauty” (geistige Schönheit) (PKÄ, 137). Strictly speaking, such spiritual beauty is not as consummately beautiful as classical beauty, in which the spirit and the body are perfectly fused with one another. Spiritual beauty, however, is the product of, and reveals, a much more profound inner freedom of spirit than classical beauty and so moves and engages us much more readily than do the relatively cold statues of Greek gods. The most profound spiritual beauty in the visual arts is found, in Hegel’s view, in painted images of the Madonna and Child, for in these what is expressed is the feeling of boundless love. Hegel had a special affection for the paintings of the Flemish Primitives, Jan van Eyck and Hans Memling, whose work he saw on his visits to Ghent and Bruges in 1827 (Hegel: The Letters, 661–2), but he also held Raphael in high regard and was particularly moved by the expression of “pious, modest mother-love” in Raphael’s Sistine Madonna which he saw in Dresden in 1820 (PKÄ, 39; Pöggeler et al 1981, 142). Greek sculptors portrayed Niobe as simply “petrified in her pain” at the loss of her children. By contrast, the painted images of the Virgin Mary are imbued by van Eyck and Raphael with an “eternal love” and a “soulfulness” that Greek statues can never match (PKÄ, 142, 184). The second fundamental form of romantic art identified by Hegel depicts what he calls the secular “virtues” of the free spirit (Aesthetics, 1: 553; PKÄ, 135). These are not the ethical virtues displayed by the heroes and heroines of Greek tragedy: they do not involve a commitment to the necessary institutions of freedom, such as the family or the state. Rather, they are the formal virtues of the romantic hero: that is to say, they involve a commitment by the free individual, often grounded in contingent choice or passion, to an object or another person. Such virtues include that of romantic love (which concentrates on a particular, contingent person), loyalty towards an individual (that can change if it is to one’s advantage), and courage (which is often displayed in the pursuit of personal ends, such as rescuing a damsel in distress, but can also be displayed in the pursuit of quasi-religious ends, such as the hunt for the Holy Grail) (PKÄ, 143–4). Such virtues are found primarily in the world of mediaeval chivalry (and are subjected to ridicule, Hegel points out, in Cervantes’ Don Quixote) (Aesthetics, 1: 591–2; PKÄ, 150). They can, however, also crop up in more modern works and, indeed, are precisely the virtues displayed in an art-form of which Hegel could know nothing, namely the American Western. The third fundamental form of romantic art depicts the formal freedom and independence of character. Such freedom is not associated with any ethical principles or (at least not principally) with the formal virtues just mentioned, but consists simply in the “firmness” (Festigkeit) of character (Aesthetics, 1: 577; PKÄ, 145–6). This is freedom in its modern, secular form. It is displayed most magnificently, Hegel believes, by characters, such as Richard III, Othello and Macbeth, in the plays of Shakespeare. Note that what interests us about such individuals is not any moral purpose (which they invariably lack anyway), but simply the energy and self-determination (and often ruthlessness) that they exhibit. Such characters must have an internal richness (revealed through imagination and language) and not just be one-dimensional, but their main appeal is their formal freedom to commit themselves to a course of action, even at the cost of their own lives. These characters do not constitute moral or political ideals, but they are the appropriate objects of modern, romantic art whose task is to depict freedom even in its most secular and amoral forms. Hegel also sees romantic beauty in more inwardly sensitive characters, such as Shakespeare’s Juliet. After meeting Romeo, Hegel remarks, Juliet suddenly opens up with love like a rosebud, full of childlike naivety. Her beauty thus lies in being the embodiment of love. Hamlet is a somewhat similar character: far from being simply weak (as Goethe thought), Hamlet, in Hegel’s view, displays the inner beauty of a profoundly noble soul (Aesthetics, 1: 583; PKÄ, 147–8). 6.2.4 The “End” of Art One should note that the development of romantic art, as Hegel describes it, involves the increasing secularization and humanization of art. In the Middle Ages and the Renaissance (as in ancient Greece) art was closely tied to religion: art’s function was to a large degree to make the divine visible. With the Reformation, however, religion turned inward and found God to be present in faith alone, not in the icons and images of art. As a result, Hegel points out, we who live after the Reformation “no longer venerate works of art” (VPK, 6). Furthermore, art itself was released from its close ties to religion and allowed to become fully secular. “To Protestantism alone,” Hegel states, “the important thing is to get a sure footing in the prose of life, to make it absolutely valid in itself independently of religious associations, and to let it develop in unrestricted freedom” (Aesthetics, 1: 598). It is for this reason, in Hegel’s view, that art in the modern age no longer meets our highest needs and no longer affords us the satisfaction that it gave to earlier cultures and civilizations. Art satisfied our highest needs when it formed an integral part of our religious life and revealed to us the nature of the divine (and, as in Greece, the true character of our fundamental ethical obligations). In the modern, post-Reformation world, however, art has been released (or has emancipated itself) from subservience to religion. As a result, “art, considered in its highest vocation, is and remains for us a thing of the past” (Aesthetics, 1: 11). This does not mean that art now has no role to play and that it provides no satisfaction at all. Art is no longer the highest and most adequate way of expressing the truth (as it was, according to Hegel, in fifth-century Athens); we moderns now seek ultimate or “absolute” truth in religious faith or in philosophy, rather than in art. (Indeed, the considerable importance we assign to philosophy is evident, in Hegel’s view, in the prominence of the philosophical study of art itself in modernity [Aesthetics, 1: 11; VPK, 6].) Yet art in modernity continues to perform the significant function of giving visible and audible expression to our distinctively human freedom and to our understanding of ourselves in all our finite humanity. Hegel does not claim, therefore, that art as a whole simply comes to an end or “dies” in the modern age. His view is, rather, that art plays (or at least should play) a more limited role now than it did in ancient Greece or in the Middle Ages. Yet Hegel does think that art in modernity comes to an end in a certain respect. To understand why he thinks this, we need to consider his claim that art in modernity “falls apart” (zerfällt) into the exploration of everyday contingencies, on the one hand, and the celebration of witty, “humorous” subjectivity, on the other (PKÄ, 151). In Hegel’s view, much painting and poetry after the Reformation focuses its attention on the prosaic details of ordinary daily life, rather than on the intimacy of religious love or the magnificent resolve and energy of tragic heroes. To the extent that such works of art no longer aim to give expression to divine or human freedom but seek (apparently at least) to do no more than “imitate nature,” they prompt Hegel to consider whether they still count as “art works” in the strictly philosophical (as opposed to the more generally accepted) sense of the term. In the twentieth century it was the abstract creations of, for example, Jackson Pollock or Carl André that usually provoked the question: “is this art?”. In Hegel’s mind, however, it is works that appear to be purely naturalistic and “representational” that raise this question. His view is that such works count as genuine works of art only when they do more than merely imitate nature. The naturalistic and prosaic works that best meet this criterion, he maintains, are the paintings of the seventeenth-century Dutch masters. In such works, Hegel claims, the painter does not aim simply to show us what grapes, flowers or trees look like: we know that already from nature. The painter aims, rather, to capture the—often fleeting—“life” (Lebendigkeit) of things: “the lustre of metal, the shimmer of a bunch of grapes by candlelight, a vanishing glimpse of the moon or the sun, a smile, the expression of a swiftly passing emotion” (Aesthetics, 1: 599). Often, indeed, the painter seeks to delight us specifically with the animated play of the colors of gold, silver, velvet or fur. In such works, Hegel notes, we encounter not just the depiction of things, but “as it were, an objective music, a peal in colour [ein Tönen in Farben]” (Aesthetics, 1: 598–600). A genuine work of art is the sensuous expression of divine or human freedom and life. Paintings that are no more than prosaic, naturalistic depictions of everyday objects or human activity would thus appear to fall short of genuine art and so to bring art to an end. Dutch artists, however, turn such depictions into true works of art precisely by imbuing objects with “the fullness of life.” In so doing, Hegel claims, they give expression to their own sense of freedom, “comfort” and “contentment” and their own exuberant subjective skill (Aesthetics, 1: 599; PKÄ, 152). The paintings of such artists may lack the classical beauty of Greek art, but they exhibit magnificently the subtle beauties and delights of everyday modern life. A much more overt expression of subjectivity is found by Hegel in works of modern humor. Such witty, ironic, humorous subjectivity—one we might now describe as “anarchic”—manifests itself in playing or “sporting” with objects, “deranging” and “perverting” material and “rambling to and fro,” and in the “criss-cross movement of subjective expressions, views, and attitudes whereby the author sacrifices himself and his topics alike” (Aesthetics, 1: 601). Hegel claims that works of “true humour,” such as Laurence Sterne’s Tristram Shandy (1759), succeed in making “what is substantial emerge out of contingency.” Their “triviality [thus] affords precisely the supreme idea of depth” (Aesthetics, 1: 602). In other works, by contrast—such as those of Hegel’s contemporary, Jean Paul Richter—all we encounter is the “baroque mustering of things objectively furthest removed from one another” and “the most confused disorderly jumbling of topics related only in his own subjective imagination” (Aesthetics, 1: 601). In such works, we do not see human freedom giving itself objective expression, but rather witness subjectivity “destroying and dissolving everything that proposes to make itself objective and win a firm shape for itself in reality” (Aesthetics, 1: 601). To the extent that works of humor do not give body to true self-determining freedom and life—or afford “the supreme idea of depth”—but merely manifest the power of arbitrary, subjective wit to subvert the settled order, such works, in Hegel’s view, no longer count as genuine works of art. Consequently, “when the subject lets itself go in this way, art thereby comes to an end [so hört damit die Kunst auf]” (PKÄ, 153). In this respect, Hegel does after all proclaim that art comes to an end in modernity. This is not because art no longer performs a religious function and so no longer fulfills the highest vocation of art; it is because there emerge in modernity certain “art works” that are no longer the expressions of true human freedom and life and so no longer genuine art works at all. As was noted above, however, this does not mean that art as a whole comes to an end in the early nineteenth century. Art, in Hegel’s view, still has a future: “we may well hope,” he says, “that art will always rise higher and come to perfection” (Aesthetics, 1: 103). For Hegel, the distinctive character of genuine art in contemporary (and future) modernity—and thus of genuinely modern art—is twofold. On the one hand, it remains bound to give expression to concrete human life and freedom; on the other hand, it is no longer restricted to any of the three art-forms. That is to say, it does not have to observe the proprieties of classical art or explore the intense emotional inwardness or heroic freedom or comfortable ordinariness that we find in romantic art. Modern art, for Hegel, can draw on features of any of the art-forms (including symbolic art) in its presentation of human life. Indeed, it can also present human life and freedom indirectly through the depiction of nature. The focus of modern art, therefore, does not have to be on one particular conception of human freedom rather than another. The new “holy of holies” in art is humanity itself— “Humanus”—that is, “the depths and heights of the human heart as such, mankind in its joys and sorrows, its strivings, deeds, and fates” (Aesthetics, 1: 607). Modern art, in Hegel’s view, thus enjoys an unprecedented freedom to explore “the infinity of the human heart” in manifold ways (VÄ, 181). For this reason, there is little that Hegel can say about the path that art should take in the future; that is for artists to decide. Hegel’s judgment that modern artists are—and are quite rightly—free to adopt whatever style they please has surely been confirmed by the history of art since Hegel’s death in 1831. There is reason to suspect, however, that Hegel might not have welcomed many of the developments in post-Hegelian art. This is due to the fact that, although he does not lay down any rules that are to govern modern art, he does identify certain conditions that should be met if modern art is to be genuine art. Hegel notes, for example, that such art should “not contradict the formal law of being simply beautiful and capable of artistic treatment” (Aesthetics, 1: 605; VPK, 204). He insists that modern artists should draw their content from their own human spirit and that “nothing that can be living [lebendig] in the human breast is alien to that spirit.” He also remarks that modern art may represent “everything in which the human being as such is capable of being at home [heimisch]” (Aesthetics, 1: 607). These may appear to be fairly innocuous conditions, but they suggest that certain post-Hegelian art works would not count in Hegel’s eyes as genuine works of art. These might include works that by no stretch of the imagination can be called “beautiful” (such as some of the paintings of Willem De Kooning or Francis Bacon), or works in which it is evidently hard to feel very much “at home” (such as the writings of Franz Kafka). Hegel’s account of the different arts (such as sculpture and painting) also suggests that he would not have regarded the move from figurative to abstract visual art as appropriate: Netherlandish and Dutch painters excelled in the creating of “objective music” through the play of colors, yet they did so not in the abstract but in the very depiction of concrete, identifiable objects. (Robert Pippin takes a different view on this last point; see Pippin 2007.) From a twentieth- or twenty-first-century point of view, Hegel’s stance may well look conservative. From his point of view, however, he was trying to understand what conditions would have to be met for works of art to be genuine works of art and genuinely modern. The conditions that Hegel identified—namely that art should present the richness of human freedom and life and should allow us to feel at home in its depictions—are ones that many modern artists (for example, Impressionists such as Monet, Sisley and Pissarro) have felt no trouble in meeting. For others, these conditions are simply too restrictive. They have thus taken modern art in a direction in which, from a Hegelian perspective, it has ceased to be art in the true sense any longer. 6.3 The System of the Individual Arts Art, in Hegel’s account, not only undergoes a historical development (from symbolic art through classical art to romantic and then modern art), but also differentiates itself into different arts. Each art has a distinctive character and exhibits a certain affinity with one or more of the art-forms. Hegel does not provide an exhaustive account of all recognized arts (he says little, for example, about dance and nothing, obviously, about cinema), but he examines the five arts that he thinks are made necessary by the very concept of art itself. 6.3.1 Architecture Art, we recall, is the sensuous expression of divine and human freedom. If it is to demonstrate that spirit is indeed free, it must show that spirit is free in relation to that which is itself unfree, spiritless and lifeless—that is, three-dimensional, inorganic matter, weighed down by gravity. Art must, therefore, be the transformation of such brute, heavy matter into the expression of spiritual freedom, or what Hegel calls “the forming of the inorganic” (VPK, 209). The art that gives heavy matter the explicit form of spiritual freedom—and so works stone and metal into the shape of a human being or a god—is sculpture. Architecture, by contrast, gives matter an abstract, inorganic form created by human understanding. It does not animate matter in the manner of sculpture but invests matter with strict regularity, symmetry and harmony (PKÄ, 155, 166). In so doing architecture turns matter not into the direct sensuous expression of spiritual freedom, but into an artificially and artfully shaped surrounding for the direct expression of spiritual freedom in sculpture. The art of architecture fulfills its purpose, therefore, when it creates classical temples to house statues of the gods (VPK, 221). Hegel points out, however, that prior to the emergence of classical architecture in ancient Greece, architecture took the more primitive form of “independent” (selbständig) or “symbolic” architecture (Aesthetics, 2: 635; PKÄ, 159). The constructions that fall into this category do not house or surround individual sculptures, like classical Greek temples, but are themselves partly sculptural and partly architectural. They are works of architectural sculpture or sculptural architecture. Such constructions are sculptural in so far as they are built for their own sake and do not serve to shelter or enclose something else. They are works of architecture, however, in so far as they are overtly heavy and massive and lack the animation of sculpture. They are also sometimes arranged in rows, like columns, with no distinctive individuality. Some of these works of independent architecture have regular inorganic, geometrical shapes (such as the temple of Bel described by Herodotus) (see Herodotus, 79–80 [1: 181]); some are clearly embodiments of the organic “force of life in nature” (such as the phallus and the lingam) (Aesthetics, 2: 641); and some even have a human form, albeit one that is abstract and colossal (such as the Egyptian Memnons of Amenhotep III). In Hegel’s view, however, all such constructions have a symbolic significance for those who built them. They were not built simply to provide shelter or security for people (like a house or a castle), but are works of symbolic art. These “independent” constructions are meaningful in themselves: their meaning lies, for example, in their shape or in the number of their parts. By contrast, the Egyptian pyramids contain a “meaning” that is separate from the construction itself. That “meaning,” of course, is the body of the dead pharaoh. Since they house within themselves something other than themselves, pyramids, in Hegel’s view, are, as it were, on the way to being properly architectural. They fall short of proper classical architecture, however, because what they shelter within themselves is death, not the embodiment of the living god: they are, as Hegel puts it, “crystals that shelter within them a departed spirit” (VPK, 218). Furthermore, the “meaning” that they contain is completely hidden within them, invisible to all. Pyramids thus remain works of symbolic art that point to a hidden meaning buried within them. Indeed, as was noted above, Hegel claims that the pyramid is the image or symbol of symbolic art itself (Aesthetics, 1: 356). The epitome of symbolic art is symbolic architecture (specifically, the pyramids). Architecture itself, however, comes into its own only with the emergence of classical art: for it is only in the classical period that architecture provides the surrounding for, and so becomes the servant of, a sculpture that is itself the embodiment of free spirit. Hegel has much to say about the proper form of such a surrounding. The main point is this: spiritual freedom is embodied in the sculpture of the god; the house of the god—the temple—is something quite distinct from, and subordinate to, the sculpture it surrounds; the form of that temple should thus also be quite distinct from that of the sculpture. The temple, therefore, should not mimic the flowing contours of the human body, but should be governed by the abstract principles of regularity, symmetry and harmony. Hegel also insists that the form of the temple should be determined by the purpose it serves: namely to provide an enclosure and protection for the god (VPK, 221). This means that the basic shape of the temple should contain only those features that are needed to fulfill its purpose. Furthermore, it means (in Hegel’s view) that each part of the temple should perform a specific function within the economy of the whole building and that different functions should not be confused with one another. It is this latter requirement that makes columns necessary. There is a difference, for Hegel, between the task of bearing the roof and that of enclosing the statue within a given space. The second task—that of enclosure—is performed by a wall. If the first task is to be clearly distinguished from the second, therefore, it must be performed not by a wall but by a separate feature of the temple. Columns are necessary in a classical temple, according to Hegel, because they perform the distinct task of bearing the roof without forming a wall. The classical temple is thus the most intelligible of buildings because different functions are carried out in this way by different architectural features and yet are harmonized with one another. Herein, indeed, lies the beauty of such a temple (VPK, 221, 224). In contrast to classical architecture, romantic or “Gothic” architecture is based on the idea of a closed house in which Christian inwardness can find refuge from the outside world. In the Gothic cathedral columns are located within, rather than around the outside of, the enclosed space, and their overt function is no longer merely to bear weight but to draw the soul up into the heavens. Consequently, the columns or pillars do not come to a definite end (in a capital on which rests the architrave of the classical temple), but continue up until they meet to form a pointed arch or a vaulted roof. In this way, the Gothic cathedral not only shelters the spirit of the religious community, but also symbolizes the upward movement of that spirit in its very structure (PKÄ, 170–1). Hegel considers a relatively small range of buildings: he says almost nothing, for example, about secular buildings. One should bear in mind, however, that he is interested in architecture only in so far as it is an art, not in so far as it provides us with protection and security in our everyday lives. Yet it should also be noted that architecture, as Hegel describes it, falls short of genuine art, as he defines it, since it is never the direct sensuous expression of spiritual freedom itself (in the manner of sculpture) (see Aesthetics, 2: 888). This is a fundamental limitation of architecture: the structures of “independent architecture” symbolize meanings that are more or less indeterminate; the pyramids indicate the presence of a hidden meaning, namely death; and even in its classical and romantic forms architecture remains a “symbolic” art, in so far as the structures it creates remain separate from the spirit they house (Aesthetics, 2: 888). In no case is architecture the explicit manifestation or embodiment of free spirituality itself. This does not, however, make architecture any less necessary as a part of our aesthetic and religious life. Nor does it prevent Hegel from seeking to understand what distinguishes the “art” of architecture (as opposed to the more everyday practice or business of architecture) in both the classical and romantic eras. 6.3.2 Sculpture In contrast to architecture, sculpture works heavy matter into the concrete expression of spiritual freedom by giving it the shape of the human being. The high point of sculpture, for Hegel, was achieved in classical Greece. In Egyptian sculpture the figures often stand firm with one foot placed before the other and the arms held tightly by the side of the body, giving the figures a rather rigid, lifeless appearance. By contrast, the idealized statues of the gods created by Greek sculptors, such as Phidias and Praxiteles, are clearly alive and animated, even when the gods are depicted at rest. This animation is apparent in the posture of the figure, in the nuanced contours of the body and also in the free fall of the figure’s garments. Hegel greatly admired the sculpture of Michelangelo—a cast of whose Pietà he saw in Berlin (Aesthetics, 2: 790)—but it was the Greeks, in his view, who set the standard for “ideal” sculptural beauty. Indeed, Greek sculpture, according to Hegel, embodies the purest beauty of which art itself is capable. (For a more detailed study of Hegel’s account of sculpture, see Houlgate 2007, 56–89). 6.3.3 Painting Hegel was well aware that Greek statues were often painted in quite a gaudy manner. He claims, however, that sculpture expresses spiritual freedom and vitality in the three-dimensional shape of the figure, rather than in the color that has been applied to it. In painting, by contrast, it is color above all that is the medium of expression. The point of painting, for Hegel, is not to show us what it is for free spirit to be fully embodied. It is to show us only what free spirit looks like, how it manifests itself to the eye. The images of painting thus lack the three-dimensionality of sculpture, but they add the detail and specificity provided by color. Hegel acknowledges that painting reached a degree of perfection in the classical world, but he maintains that it is best suited to the expression of romantic, Christian spirituality (and the secular freedom of post-Reformation modernity) (PKÄ, 181). This is because the absence of bodily solidity and the presence of color allow the more inward spirituality of the Christian world to manifest itself as such. If sculpture is the material embodiment of spirit, painting gives us, as it were, the face of spirit in which the soul within manifests itself as the soul within (PKÄ, 183). Painting, however, is also able—unlike sculpture—to set divine and human spirit in relation to its external environment: it is able to include within the painted image itself the natural landscape and the architecture by which Christ, the Virgin Mary, the saints or secular figures are surrounded (Aesthetics, 2: 854). Indeed, Hegel argues that painting—in contrast to sculpture, which excels in presenting independent, free-standing individuals—is altogether more suited to showing human beings in their relations both to their environment and to one another: hence the prominence in painting of, for example, depictions of the love between the Virgin Mary and the Christ child. Hegel’s account of painting is extraordinarily rich and wide-ranging. He has particular praise for Raphael, Titian and the Dutch masters and, as noted earlier, is especially interested in the ways in which painters can combine colors to create what he calls “objective music” (Aesthetics, 1: 599–600). It should be noted, however, that Hegel sees the abstract play of colors as an integral part of the depiction of free human beings and does not suggest that painting should ever become purely abstract and “musical” (as it did in the twentieth century). 6.3.4 Music The next art in Hegel’s “system of the individual arts” is music itself. It, too, comes into its own in the period of romantic art. Like sculpture and painting, but unlike architecture, music gives direct expression to free subjectivity. Yet music goes even further in the direction of expressing the inwardness of subjectivity by dropping the dimensions of space altogether. It thus gives no enduring visual expression to such subjectivity, but expresses the latter in the organized succession of vanishing sounds. Music, for Hegel, originates in the immediate uttering of feeling or what he calls “interjection”—“the Ah and Oh of the heart” (Aesthetics, 2: 903). Yet music is more than just a cry of pain or a sigh; it is an organized, developed, “cadenced” interjection. Music is thus not just a sequence of sounds for its own sake, but is the structured expression in sounds of inner subjectivity. Through rhythm, harmony and melody music allows the soul to hear its own inner movement and to be moved in turn by what it hears. It is “spirit, soul which resounds immediately for itself and feels satisfied in hearing itself [in ihrem Sichvernehmen]” (Aesthetics, 2: 939, translation altered). Music expresses, and allows us to hear and enjoy, the movement of the soul in time through difference and dissonance back into its unity with itself. It also expresses, and moves us to, various different feelings, such as love, longing and joy (Aesthetics, 2: 940). In Hegel’s view, however, the purpose of music is not only to arouse feelings in us, but—as in all genuine art —to enable us to enjoy a sense of reconciliation and satisfaction in what we encounter. This, Hegel contends, is the secret of truly “ideal” music, the music of Palestrina, Gluck, Haydn and Mozart: even in the deepest grief “tranquillity of soul is never missing [ … ]; grief is expressed there, too, but it is assuaged at once; [ …] everything is kept firmly together in a restrained form so that jubilation does not degenerate into a repulsive uproar, and even a lament gives us the most blissful tranquillity” (Aesthetics, 2: 939). Hegel notes that music is able to express feelings with especial clarity when it is accompanied by a poetic text, and he had a particular love of both church music and opera. Interestingly, however, he argues that in such cases it is really the text that serves the music, rather than the other way around, for it is the music above all that expresses the profound movements of the soul (Aesthetics, 2: 934). Yet music does not have to be accompanied by a text; it can also be “independent” instrumental music. Such music also fulfills the aim of art by expressing the movements of the soul and moving the soul in turn to “emotions in sympathy with it” (Aesthetics, 2: 894). Over and above this expression, however, independent music pursues the purely formal development of themes and harmonies for its own sake. This, in Hegel’s view, is a perfectly appropriate, indeed necessary, thing for music to do. The danger he sees, however, is that such formal development can become completely detached from the musical expression of inward feeling and subjectivity, and that, as a result, music can cease being a genuine art and become mere artistry. Music, as it were, loses its soul and becomes nothing but “skill and virtuosity in compilation” (Aesthetics, 2: 906). At this point, music no longer moves us to feel anything, but simply engages our abstract understanding. It thereby becomes the province of the “connoisseur” and leaves the layman—who “likes most in music [ … ] the intelligible expression of feelings and ideas” (Aesthetics, 2: 953)—behind. Hegel admits that he is not as well versed in music as he is in the other arts he discusses. He has a deep appreciation, however, for the music of J.S. Bach, Handel and Mozart and his analyses of musical rhythm, harmony and melody are highly illuminating. He was familiar with, though critical of, the music of his contemporary Carl Maria von Weber, and he had a particular affection for Rossini (Aesthetics, 1: 159, 2: 949). Surprisingly, he never makes any mention of Beethoven. 6.3.5 Poetry The last art that Hegel considers is also an art of sound, but sound understood as the sign of ideas and inner representations—sound as speech. This is the art of poetry (Poesie) in the broad sense of the term. Hegel regards poetry as the “most perfect art” (PKÄ, 197), because it provides the richest and most concrete expression of spiritual freedom (in contrast to sculpture which, in its classical form, gives us the purest ideal beauty). Poetry is capable of showing spiritual freedom both as concentrated inwardness and as action in space and time. It is equally at home in symbolic, classical and romantic art and, in this sense, is the “most unrestricted of the arts” (Aesthetics, 2: 626). Poetry, for Hegel, is not simply the structured presentation of ideas, but the articulation of ideas in language, indeed in spoken (rather than just written) language. An important aspect of the art of poetry—and what clearly marks it off from prose—is thus the musical ordering of words themselves or “versification.” In this respect, Hegel claims, there are important differences between classical and romantic art: the ancients place more emphasis on rhythmic structure in their verse, whereas in Christendom (especially in France and Italy) greater use is made of rhyme (PKÄ, 201–4). The three basic forms of poetry identified by Hegel are epic, lyric and dramatic poetry. 6.3.5.1 Epic and Lyric poetry Epic poetry presents spiritual freedom—that is, free human beings—in the context of a world of circumstances and events. “In the epic,” Hegel states, “individuals act and feel; but their actions are not independent, events [also] have their right.” What is described in such poetry, therefore, is “a play between actions and events” (PKÄ, 208). Epic individuals are situated individuals, caught up in a larger enterprise (such as the Trojan War in Homer’s Iliad). What they do is thus determined as much by the situation in which they find themselves as by their own will, and the consequences of their actions are to a large degree at the mercy of circumstances. Epic poetry thus shows us the worldly character—and attendant limitations—of human freedom. (In this respect, Hegel notes, Alexander the Great would not have made a good subject for epic poetry, because “his world was his army”— his creation under his control—and so was not truly independent of his will [PKÄ, 213].) Among the great epic poems Hegel discusses are Homer’s Odyssey, Dante’s Divine Comedy and the mediaeval Spanish poem El Cid. Much of what he has to say about the epic, however, is based on his reading of Homer’s Iliad. In the modern period, Hegel maintains, the epic gives way to the novel (PKÄ, 207, 217). In contrast to the epic hero, the subject of lyric poetry does not undertake tasks, journeys or adventures in the world but simply gives expression—in hymns, odes or songs—to the self’s ideas and inner feelings. This can be done directly or via the poetic description of something else, such as a rose, wine, or another person. As always, Hegel’s remarks about lyric poetry bear witness to his extraordinary erudition and to his critical acumen. He lavishes particular praise on Goethe’s West-Eastern Divan (1819) but criticizes the eighteenth-century poet Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock for wanting to create a new “poetic mythology” (Aesthetics, 2: 1154–7; PKÄ, 218). 6.3.5.2 Dramatic Poetry Dramatic poetry combines the principles of epic and lyric poetry. It shows characters acting in the world—in a given situation —but their actions issue directly from their own inner will (rather than being co-determined by events beyond the agent’s control). Drama thus presents the—all too often self-destructive—consequences of free human action itself. Drama, for Hegel, is the “highest” and most concrete art (PKÄ, 205)—the art in which human beings themselves are the medium of aesthetic expression. (Seeing a play performed by actors, as opposed to hearing it read aloud or reading it for oneself, is thus central, in Hegel’s view, to the experience of drama [Aesthetics, 2: 1182–5; PKÄ, 223–4].) Drama, indeed, is the art in which all the other arts are contained (virtually or actually): “the human being is the living statue, architecture is represented by painting or there is real architecture,” and—in particular in Greek drama—there is “music, dance and pantomime” (PKÄ, 223). At this point, it is tempting to say that, for Hegel, drama—to use Richard Wagner’s expression—is the “total work of art” (Gesamtkunstwerk). It is doubtful, however, whether Hegel would have been sympathetic to Wagner’s project. Hegel remarks that drama takes the explicit form of a “totality” in opera, which belongs more to the sphere of music than to drama proper (PKÄ, 223). (He has in mind in particular the operas of Gluck and Mozart.) In drama as such, by contrast, language is what predominates and music plays a subordinate role and may even be present only in the virtual form of versification. The Wagnerian idea of a “music drama” that is neither a straightforward opera nor a simple drama would thus appear, from Hegel’s point of view, to confuse two distinct arts. Drama, for Hegel, does not depict the richness of the epic world or explore the inner world of lyric feeling. It shows characters acting in pursuit of their own will and interest and thereby coming into conflict with other individuals (even if, as in the case of Hamlet, after some initial hesitation). Hegel distinguishes between tragic and comic drama and between classical and romantic versions of each. (He also notes that in some plays, such as Goethe’s Iphigenie auf Tauris, tragedy threatens but is averted by acts of trust or forgiveness [Aesthetics, 2: 1204].) In classical Greek tragedy individuals are moved to act by an ethical interest or “pathos,” such as concern for the family or for the state. The conflict between Antigone and Creon in Sophocles’ Antigone is of this kind, as is the conflict acted out in Aeschylus’ Oresteia. In Sophocles’ Oedipus the King the conflict is not a straightforwardly ethical one, but it is nonetheless a conflict between two “rights”: the right of consciousness to accept responsibility only for what it knows it has done, and the right of the “unconscious”—of what we do not know—to be accorded respect. The tragedy of Oedipus is that he pursues his right to uncover the truth about the murder of Laius without ever considering that he himself might be responsible for the murder or, indeed, that there might be anything about him of which he is unaware (Aesthetics, 2: 1213–14). Greek tragic heroes and heroines are moved to act by the ethical (or otherwise justified) interest with which they identify, but they act freely in pursuit of that interest. Tragedy shows how such free action leads to conflict and then to the violent (or sometimes peaceful) resolution of that conflict. At the close of the drama, Hegel maintains, we are shattered by the fate of the characters (at least when the resolution is violent). We are also satisfied by the outcome, because we see that justice has been done. Individuals, whose interests—such as the family and the state—should be in harmony with one another, set those interests in opposition to one another; in so doing, however, they destroy themselves and thereby undo the very opposition they set up. In the self-destruction of such “one-sidedly” ethical characters, Hegel believes, we, the audience, see the work of “eternal justice” (Aesthetics, 2: 1198, 1215). This reconciles us to the fate of the characters and so provides the sense of “reconciliation which art should never lack” (Aesthetics, 2: 1173). In modern tragedy—by which Hegel means above all Shakespearean tragedy—characters are moved not by an ethical interest, but by a subjective passion, such as ambition or jealousy. These characters, however, still act freely and destroy themselves through the free pursuit of their passion. Tragic individuals, therefore—whether ancient or modern—are not brought down by fate but are ultimately responsible for their own demise. Indeed, Hegel maintains, “innocent suffering is not the object of high art” (PKÄ, 231–2). Drama that sees people primarily as victims of circumstance or oppression (such as Georg Büchner’s Woyzeck [1836]) is thus, from a Hegelian point of view, drama without genuine tragedy. In comedy individuals also undermine their own endeavors in some way, but the purposes that animate them are either inherently trivial ones or grand ones which they pursue in a laughably inappropriate way. In contrast to tragic characters, truly comic figures do not identify themselves seriously with their laughable ends or means. They can thus survive the frustration of their purposes, and often come to laugh at themselves, in a way that tragic figures cannot. In this respect, Hegel claims, characters in many modern comedies, such as those by Molière, are frequently ridiculous, but not genuinely comic, characters: we laugh at Molière’s miser or Shakespeare’s Malvolio, but they do not laugh with us at their own foibles. Truly comic figures are found by Hegel in the plays of the ancient Greek dramatist Aristophanes. What we encounter in such plays, Hegel maintains, is “an infinite light-heartedness and confidence felt by someone raised altogether above his own inner contradiction and not bitter or miserable in it at all: this is the bliss and ease of a man who, being sure of himself, can bear the frustration of his aims and achievements” (Aesthetics, 2: 1200). Modern equivalents of such Aristophanic light-heartedness may be found in Verdi’s Falstaff (1893) and in the unrivalled comic genius of Homer Simpson, both of which, of course, were unknown to Hegel. Comedy, in Hegel’s view, marks the “dissolution of art” (Aesthetics, 2: 1236). Yet the way in which comedy “dissolves” art differs from the way in which modern ironic humor does so. Ironic humor—at least of the kind found in the work of Jean Paul Richter—is the expression of the “power of subjective notions, flashes of thought” to “destroy and dissolve everything that proposes to make itself objective” (Aesthetics, 1: 601). It is the expression of the unchallenged mastery of wit. Since Hegel does not regard such arbitrary mastery as genuine freedom, he argues that works of ironic humor in which this mastery is exhibited no longer count as genuine works of art. True comedy, by contrast, is the expression of a sense of wholeness, self-confidence and well-being—of subjective freedom and life —that survives the loss of mastery and control over one’s life. Plays that express such freedom count as genuine works of art. Yet they are works that show freedom to reside precisely not in the works we undertake but within subjectivity itself, within subjectivity that happily endures the frustration of its laughable aims. According to Hegel, the idea that true freedom is to be found in inner spirituality that is prepared to let go of, or to “die to,” its own selfish purposes lies at the heart of religion, specifically of Christianity. True comedy, therefore, implicitly points beyond art to religion. It is in this way—and not by ceasing to be art—that comedy “dissolves” art. Comedy thus takes art to its limit: beyond comedy there is no further aesthetic manifestation of freedom, there is only religion (and philosophy). Religion, in Hegel’s view, does not make the aesthetic expression of freedom redundant; indeed, it is often the source of the greatest art. Yet religion provides a more profound understanding of freedom than art, just as philosophy provides a clearer and more profound understanding of freedom than religion. 7. Conclusion Hegel’s aesthetics has been the focus of—often highly critical—attention since his death from philosophers such as Heidegger, Adorno and Gadamer. Much of this attention has been devoted to his supposed theory of the “end” of art. Perhaps Hegel’s most important legacy, however, lies in the claims that art’s task is the presentation of beauty and that beauty is a matter of content as well as form. Beauty, for Hegel, is not just a matter of formal harmony or elegance; it is the sensuous manifestation in stone, color, sound or words of spiritual freedom and life. Such beauty takes a subtly different form in the classical and romantic periods and also in the different individual arts. In one form or another, however, it remains the purpose of art, even in modernity. These claims by Hegel are normative, not just descriptive, and impose certain restrictions on what can count as genuine art in the modern age. They are not, however, claims made out of simple conservatism. Hegel is well aware that art can be decorative, can promote moral and political goals, can explore the depths of human alienation or simply record the prosaic details of everyday life, and that it can do so with considerable artistry. His concern, however, is that art that does these things without giving us beauty fails to afford us the aesthetic experience of freedom. In so doing, it deprives us of a central dimension of a truly human life. Bibliography Hegel’s Collected Works - Gesammelte Werke, ed. Rheinisch-Westfälische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1968–. - Vorlesungen: Ausgewählte Nachschriften und Manuskripte, ed. Members of the Hegel-Archiv, Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1983–. - Werke in zwanzig Bänden, eds. E. Moldenhauer and K.M. Michel, 20 vols. and Index, Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp Verlag, 1969–. English Translations of Key Texts by Hegel - Aesthetics. Lectures on Fine Art, trans. T.M. Knox, 2 vols., Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1975. - Hegel’s Philosophy of Mind. Being Part Three of the Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences (1830), trans. W. Wallace, together with the Zusätze in Boumann’s text (1845), trans. A.V. Miller, Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1971 (see 293–7 [pars. 556–63] on art). - Hegel: The Letters, trans. C. Butler and C. Seiler, Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1984. - Lectures on the Philosophy of Art. The Hotho Transcript of the 1823 Berlin Lectures, trans. R.F. Brown, Oxford: Clarendon Press, 2014 (see VPK below). - Lectures on the Philosophy of World History. Introduction: Reason in History, trans. H.B. Nisbet, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1975. - Phenomenology of Spirit, trans. A.V. Miller, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1977 (see 266–89 on “the ethical order” and 424–53 on “religion in the form of art”). Transcripts of Hegel’s Lectures on Aesthetics - Philosophie der Kunst oder Ästhetik. Nach Hegel. Im Sommer 1826. Mitschrift Friedrich Carl Hermann Victor von Kehler, eds. A. Gethmann-Siefert and B. Collenberg-Plotnikov, Munich: Wilhelm Fink Verlag, 2004. (PKÄ ) - Philosophie der Kunst. Vorlesung von 1826, eds. A. Gethmann-Siefert, J.-I. Kwon and K. Berr, Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp Verlag, 2004. (PK) - Vorlesung über Ästhetik. Berlin 1820/21. Eine Nachschrift, ed. H. Schneider, Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang, 1995. (VÄ) - Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Kunst, ed. A. Gethmann-Siefert, Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 2003. (VPK) - Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Kunst I. Nachschriften zu den Kollegien der Jahre 1820/21 und 1823, Gesammelte Werke, 28, 1, ed. N. Hebing, Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 2015. - Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Kunst II. Nachschriften zum Kolleg des Jahres 1826, Gesammelte Werke, 28, 2, ed. N. Hebing and W. Jaeschke, Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 2018. - Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Kunst III. Nachschriften zum Kolleg des Wintersemesters 1828/29, Gesammelte Werke, 28, 3, ed. W. Jaeschke and N. Hebing, Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 2020. - Vorlesungen zur Ästhetik: Vorlesungsmitschrift Adolf Heiman (1828/1829), ed. A.P. Olivier and A. Gethmann-Siefert, Paderborn: Wilhelm Fink Verlag, 2017. Secondary Literature in English - Alznauer, Mark (ed.), 2021, Hegel on Tragedy and Comedy. New Essays, Albany: State University of New York Press. - Ameriks, Karl, 2002, “Hegel’s Aesthetics: New Perspectives on its Response to Kant and Romanticism,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 45(6): 72–92. - Andina, Tiziana, 2013, The Philosophy of Art: the Question of Definition. From Hegel to Post-Dantian Theories, trans. N. Iacobelli, London: Bloomsbury. - Aschenberg, Reinhold, 1994, “On the Theoretical Form of Hegel’s Aesthetics,” in Hegel Reconsidered. Beyond Metaphysics and the Authoritarian State, eds. H. T. Engelhardt, Jr. and T. Pinkard, Dordrecht: Kluwer, 79–101. - Bates, Jennifer A., 2010, Hegel and Shakespeare on Moral Imagination, Albany: SUNY Press. - Baur, Michael, 1997, “Winckelmann and Hegel on the Imitation of the Greeks,” in Hegel and the Tradition: Essays in Honour of H.S. Harris, eds. M. Baur and J. Russon, Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 93–110. - Bird-Pollan, Stefan, and Marchenkov, Vladimir (eds.), 2020, Hegel’s Political Aesthetics. Art in Modern Society, London: Bloomsbury. - Bowie, Andrew, 2003, Aesthetics and Subjectivity from Kant to Nietzsche, 2nd edition, Manchester: Manchester University Press. - –––, 2009, Music, Philosophy, and Modernity, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. - Bungay, Stephen, 1984, Beauty and Truth. A Study of Hegel’s Aesthetics, Oxford: Oxford University Press. - Carter, Curtis, 1986, “Hegel and Whitehead on Aesthetic Symbols,” in Hegel and Whitehead: Contemporary Perspectives on Systematic Philosophy, ed. G.R. Lucas Jr., Albany: SUNY Press, 239–57. - –––, 1993, “A Re-examination of the ‘Death of Art’ Interpretation of Hegel’s Aesthetics,” in Selected Essays on G.W.F. Hegel, ed. L.S. Stepelevich, Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press, 11–27. - Danto, Arthur C., 2004, “Hegel’s End-of-Art Thesis,” in A New History of German Literature, eds. D.E. Wellbery and J. Ryan, Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 535–40. - De Man, Paul, 1982, “Sign and Symbol in Hegel’s ‘Aesthetics’,” Critical Inquiry, 8(4): 761–75. - Desmond, William, 1985, “Hermeneutics and Hegel’s Aesthetics,” Irish Philosophical Journal, 2: 94–104. - –––, 1986, Art and the Absolute. A Study of Hegel’s Aesthetics, Albany: SUNY Press. - –––, 1999, “Gothic Hegel,” in The Owl of Minerva, 30(2): 237–b52. - Donougho, Martin, 1982, “Remarks on ‘Humanus heißt der Heilige’,” Hegel-Studien, 17: 214–25. - –––, 1989, “The Woman in White: On the Reception of Hegel’s Antigone,” The Owl of Minerva, 21, 1 (Fall): 65–89. - –––, 1997, “Hegel as Philosopher of the Temporal [irdischen] World: On the Dialectics of Narrative,” in Hegel and the Tradition: Essays in Honour of H.S. Harris, eds. M. Baur and J. Russon, Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 111–39. - –––, 1999, “Hegel’s Art of Memory,” in Endings. Questions of Memory in Hegel and Heidegger, eds. R. Comay and J. McCumber, Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 139–59. - –––, 2023, Hegel’s Individuality. Beyond Category, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. - D’Oro, Guiseppina, 1996, “Beauties of Nature and Beauties of Art: On Kant and Hegel’s Aesthetics,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 33 (Spring/Summer): 70–86. - Etter, Brian K., 1999, “Beauty, Ornament, and Style: The Problem of Classical Architecture in Hegel’s Aesthetics,” in The Owl of Minerva, 30(2): 211–35. - –––, 2006, Between Transcendence and Historicism. The Ethical Nature of the Arts in Hegelian Aesthetics, Albany: SUNY Press. - Fowkes, William, 1981, A Hegelian Account of Contemporary Art, Ann Arbor: UMI Research Press. - Gaiger, Jason, 2000, “Art as Made and Sensuous: Hegel, Danto and the ‘End of Art’,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 41(2): 104–19. - –––, 2006, “Catching up with History: Hegel and Abstract Painting,” in Hegel: New Directions, ed. K. Deligiorgi, Chesham: Acumen, 159–76. - Gardiner, Patrick, 1987, “Kant and Hegel on Aesthetics,” in Hegel’s Critique of Kant, ed. S. Priest, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 161–71. - Geulen, Eva, 2006, The End of Art. Readings in a Rumor after Hegel, trans. J. McFarland, Stanford: Stanford University Press. - Gordon, Paul, 2015, Art as the Absolute. Art’s Relation to Metaphysics in Kant, Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, and Schopenhauer, London: Bloomsbury. - Gray, Richard T. et al (eds.), 2011, Inventions of the Imagination. Romanticism and Beyond, Seattle: University of Washington Press. - Guyer, Paul, 1990, “Hegel on Kant’s Aesthetics: Necessity and Contingency in Beauty and Art,” in Hegel und die “Kritik der Urteilskraft”, eds. H.-F. Fulda and R.-P. Horstmann, Stuttgart: Klett-Cotta, 81-99. - –––, 2013, “The End of Art and the Interpretation of Geist,” in Self, World, and Art. Metaphysical Topics in Kant and Hegel, ed. D. Emundts, Berlin: de Gruyter, 283–306. - Hamacher, Werner, 1998, “(The End of Art with the Mask),” in Hegel after Derrida, ed. S. Barnett, London: Routledge, 105–30. - Hammermeister, Kai, 2002, The German Aesthetic Tradition, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. - Harries, Karsten, 1974, “Hegel on the Future of Art,” The Review of Metaphysics, 27: 677–96. - –––, 1999, “The Epochal Threshold and the Classical Ideal: Hölderlin contra Hegel,” in The Emergence of German Idealism, eds. M. Baur and D. Dahlstrom, Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 147–75. - Harris, H.S., 1984, “The Resurrection of Art,” The Owl of Minerva, 16(1): 5–20. - Hendrix, John Shannon, 2005, Aesthetics and the Philosophy of Spirit. From Plotinus to Schelling and Hegel, New York: Peter Lang. - Henrich, Dieter, 1979, “Art and Philosophy of Art Today: Reflections with Reference to Hegel,” in New Perspectives in German Literary Criticism, eds. R.E. Amacher and V. Lange, trans. D.H. Wilson et al., Princeton: Princeton University Press, 107–33. - –––, 1985, “The Contemporary Relevance of Hegel’s Aesthetics,” in Hegel, ed. M. Inwood, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 199–207. - Hilmer, Brigitte, 1998, “Being Hegelian after Danto,” History and Theory, 37(4): 71–86. - Houlgate, Stephen, 1986a, “Review of A. Gethmann-Siefert, Die Funktion der Kunst in der Geschichte,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 13 (Spring/Summer): 33–42. - –––, 1986b, “Review of S. Bungay, Beauty and Truth,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 14 (Autumn/Winter): 4–20. - –––, 1986c, Hegel, Nietzsche and the Criticism of Metaphysics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (chapter 8: “Hegel and Nietzsche on Tragedy”). - –––, 1997, “Hegel and the ‘End’ of Art,” The Owl of Minerva, 29(1): 1–21. - –––, 2000, “Hegel and the Art of Painting,” in Hegel and Aesthetics, ed. W. Maker, Albany: SUNY Press, 61–82. - –––, 2005, An Introduction to Hegel. Freedom, Truth and History, 2nd edition, Oxford: Blackwell (chapter 9: “Art and Human Wholeness”). - ––– (ed.), 2007, Hegel and the Arts, Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press. - –––, 2013a, “Hegel, Danto and the ‘End of Art’,” in The Impact of German Idealism: the Legacy of Post-Kantian German Thought, eds. N. Boyle and L. Disley, 4 volumes, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (Volume 3, eds. C. Jamme and I. Cooper), 264–92 - –––, 2013b, “Review of Benjamin Rutter, Hegel on the Modern Arts,” British Journal for the History of Philosophy, 21(5): 1009–15. - –––, 2018, “[Hegel on] Architecture,” in G.W.F. Hegel: Vorlesungen über die Ästhetik, ed. B. Sandkaulen, Berlin: De Gruyter, 151–68. - –––, 2020, “Hegel and Goethe’s Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship,” in Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship and Philosophy, ed. S.V Eldridge and C.A. Speight, Oxford: Oxford University Press. - Huddleston, Andrew, 2014, “Hegel on Comedy: Theodicy, Social Criticism, and the ‘Supreme Task’ of Art,” British Journal of Aesthetics, 54(2): 227–40. - James, David, 2009, Art, Myth and Society in Hegel’s Aesthetics,London: Continuum. - Johnson, Julian, 1991, “Music in Hegel’s Aesthetics: A Re-evaluation,” British Journal of Aesthetics, 31: 152–62. - Kain, Philip J., 1982, Schiller, Hegel, and Marx: State, Society, and the Aesthetic Ideal of Ancient Greece, Kingston, Ontario: McGill-Queen’s University Press. - Kaminsky, Jack, 1962, Hegel on Art. An Interpretation of Hegel’s Aesthetics, Albany: SUNY Press. - Kottman, Paul A., and Squire, Michael (eds.), 2018, The Art of Hegel’s Aesthetics: Hegelian Philosophy and the Perspectives of Art History, Paderborn: Wilhelm Fink Verlag. - Lampert, Jay, 2001, “Why is there no Category of the City in Hegel’s Aesthetics?,” British Journal of Aesthetics, 41: 312–24. - Magnus, Kathleen Dow, 2001, Hegel and the Symbolic Mediation of Spirit, Albany: SUNY Press. - Maker, William (ed.), 2000, Hegel and Aesthetics, Albany: SUNY Press. - McCumber, John, 1989, Poetic Interaction: Language, Freedom, Reason, Chicago: University of Chicago Press. - –––, 1999, “Schiller, Hegel, and the Aesthetics of German Idealism,” in The Emergence of German Idealism, eds. M. Baur and D. Dahlstrom, Washington, D.C.: Catholic University of America Press, 133–46. - Millàn, Elizabeth, 2010, “Searching for Modern Culture’s Beautiful Harmony: Schlegel and Hegel on Irony,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 62 (Autumn/Winter): 61–82. - Moggach, Douglas (ed.), 2011, Politics, Religion, and Art. Hegelian Debates, Evanston: Northwestern University Press. - Moland, Lydia L., 2016, “‘And Why Not?’ Hegel, Comedy, and the End of Art,” Verifiche, XLV(1–2): 73–104. - –––, 2017, “Hegel’s Philosophy of Art,” in The Oxford Handbook of Hegel, ed. D. Moyar, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 559–80. - –––, 2018, “Reconciling Laughter: Hegel on Comedy and Humor,” in All too Human. Laughter, Humor, and Comedy in Nineteenth-Century Philosophy, ed. L.L. Moland, New York: Springer, 15–31. - –––, 2019, Hegel’s Aesthetics. The Art of Idealism, Oxford: Oxford University Press. - Moran, Michael, 1981, “On the Continuing Significance of Hegel’s Aesthetics,” British Journal of Aesthetics, 21: 214–39. - Peters, Julia, 2009, “Beauty, Aesthetic Experience and Immanent Critique,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 59/60: 67–81. - –––, 2015, Hegel on Beauty, New York: Routledge. - Pillow, Kirk, 2000, Sublime Understanding: Aesthetic Reflection in Kant and Hegel, Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. - Pippin, Robert B., 2007, “What was Abstract Art? (From the Point of View of Hegel),” in Hegel and the Arts, ed. S. Houlgate, Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 244–70. - –––, 2008, “The Absence of Aesthetics in Hegel’s Aesthetics,” in The Cambridge Companion to Hegel and Nineteenth-Century Philosophy, ed. F.C. Beiser, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 394–418. - –––, 2014, After the Beautiful: Hegel and the Philosophy of Pictorial Modernism, Chicago: University of Chicago Press. - Reid, Jeffrey, 2014, The Anti-Romantic. Hegel against Ironic Romanticism, London: Bloomsbury. - Roche, Mark William, 1998, Tragedy and Comedy. A Systematic Study and a Critique of Hegel, Albany: SUNY Press. - Rush, Fred, 2010, “Hegel, Humour, and the Ends of Art,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 62(Autumn/Winter): 1–22. - –––, 2016, Irony and Idealism. Rereading Schlegel, Hegel, and Kierkegaard, Oxford: Oxford University Press. - Rutter, Benjamin, 2010, Hegel on the Modern Arts, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. - Sallis, John, 1994, Stone, Bloomington: Indiana University Press. - –––, 2011, Transfigurements: On the True Sense of Art, Chicago: University of Chicago Press. - –––, 2011, “Soundings: Hegel on Music,” in A Companion to Hegel, ed. S. Houlgate and M. Baur, Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, 369–84. - Schmidt, Dennis J., 2001, On Germans and Other Greeks. Tragedy and Ethical Life, Bloomington: Indiana University Press. - Siani, Alberto L., 2023, Hegel and the Present of Art’s Past Character, London: Routledge. - Snyder, Stephen, 2018, End-of-Art Philosophy in Hegel, Nietzsche and Danto, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. - Speight, Allen, 2008, “Hegel and Aesthetics: The Practice and ‘Pastness’ of Art,” in The Cambridge Companion to Hegel and Nineteenth-Century Philosophy, ed. F.C. Beiser, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 378–93. - –––, 2010, “Hegel and Lukàcs on the Novel,” Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, 62(Autumn/Winter): 23–34. - –––, 2011, “Hegel and the ‘Historical Deduction’ of the Concept of Art,” in A Companion to Hegel, ed. S. Houlgate and M. Baur, Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell, 353–68. - –––, 2013, “Artisans, Artists and Hegel’s History of Art,” Hegel Bulletin, 68: 203–22. - –––, 2015, “Philosophy of Art,” in G.W.F. Hegel: Key Concepts, ed. M. Baur, London: Routledge, 103–15. - Steinkraus, Warren, and Schmitz, Kenneth (eds.), 1980, Art and Logic in Hegel’s Philosophy, New Jersey: Humanities Press. - Taft, Richard, 1987, “Art and Philosophy in the Early Development of Hegel’s System,” The Owl of Minerva, 18(2): 145–62. - Taminiaux, Jacques, 1999, “The Hegelian Legacy in Heidegger’s Overcoming of Aesthetics,” in Endings. Questions of Memory in Hegel and Heidegger, eds. R. Comay and J. McCumber, Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 114–38. - Tsakiridou, Cornelia A., 1991, “Darstellung: Reflections on Art, Logic, and System in Hegel,” The Owl of Minerva, 23(1): 15–28. - Vernon, Jim, 2018, Hip Hop, Hegel, and the Art of Emancipation: Let’s Get Free, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. - Westphal, Kenneth, 1997, “Hegel, Formalism, and Robert Turner’s Ceramic Art,” Jahrbuch für Hegelforschung, 3: 259–83. - Wicks, Robert, 1993, “Hegel’s Aesthetics: An Overview,” in The Cambridge Companion to Hegel, ed. F.C. Beiser, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 348–77. - –––, 1994, Hegel’s Theory of Aesthetic Judgment, New York: Peter Lang. - Winfield, Richard Dien, 1994, “The Individuality of Art and the Collapse of Metaphysical Aesthetics,” American Philosophical Quarterly, 31(1): 39–51. - –––, 1995, “Hegel, Romanticism, and Modernity,” The Owl of Minerva, 27(1): 3–18. - –––, 1996, Stylistics. Rethinking the Artforms after Hegel, Albany: SUNY Press. - –––, 2023, Rethinking the Arts after Hegel: From Architecture to Motion Pictures, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. - Wyss, Beat, 1999, Hegel’s Art History and the Critique of Modernity, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Secondary Literature in German - Arndt, Andreas, Bal, Karol, and Ottmann, Henning (eds.), 1999/2000, Hegels Ästhetik. Die Kunst der Politik — Die Politik der Kunst, 2 vols., Berlin: Akademie Verlag. - Arndt, Andreas, Kruck, Günter, and Zovko, Jure (eds.), 2014, Gebrochene Schönheit. Hegels Ästhetik – Kontexte und Rezeptionen, Berlin: de Gruyter. - Belli, Alessandra Lazzerini, 1998/99, “Hegel und Rossini. Das Singen, das man in der Seele empfindet,” Jahrbuch für Hegelforschung, 4/5: 231–61. - Braune-Krickau, Tobias, Erne, Thomas, and Scholl, Katharina (eds.), 2014, Vom Ende her gedacht. Hegels Ästhetik zwischen Religion und Kunst, Freiburg: Verlag Karl Alber. - Bubner, Rüdiger, 1990, “Gibt es ästhetische Erfahrung bei Hegel?,” in Hegel und die “Kritik der Urteilskraft,”, eds. H.-F. Fulda and R.-P. Horstmann, Stuttgart: Klett-Cotta, 69–80. - Düsing, Klaus, 2012, Aufhebung der Tradition im dialektischen Denken. Untersuchungen zu Hegels Logik, Ethik und Ästhetik, Munich: Wilhelm Fink Verlag. - Espiña, Yolanda, 1997, “Kunst als Grenze: Die Musik bei Hegel,” Jahrbuch für Hegelforschung, 3: 103–33. - Franke, Ursula, and Gethmann-Siefert, Annemarie (eds.), 2005, Kulturpolitik und Kunstgeschichte. Perspektiven der Hegelschen Ästhetik, Hamburg: Felix Meiner. - Gethmann-Siefert, Annemarie, 1984, Die Funktion der Kunst in der Geschichte. Untersuchungen zu Hegels Ästhetik, Bonn: Bouvier Verlag. - –––, and Pöggeler, Otto (eds.), 1986, Welt und Wirkung von Hegels Ästhetik, Bonn: Bouvier Verlag. - ––– (ed.), 1992, Phänomen versus System: Zum Verhältnis von philosophischer Systematik und Kunsturteil in Hegels Berliner Vorlesungen über Ästhetik oder Philosophie der Kunst, Bonn: Bouvier Verlag. - –––, 1993, “Hegel über Kunst und Alltäglichkeit: Zur Rehabilitierung der schönen Kunst und des ästhetischen Genusses,” Hegel-Studien, 28: 215–65. - –––, 2005, Einführung in Hegels Ästhetik, Stuttgart: UTB. - Gethmann-Siefert, Annemarie, et al (eds.), 2013, Hegels Ästhetik als Theorie der Moderne, Berlin: Akademie Verlag. - Gombrich, Ernst H., 1977, “Hegel und die Kunstgeschichte,” in Hegel-Preis-Reden, Stuttgart: Belser Verlag, 7–28. - Haas, Bruno, 2003, Die freie Kunst. Beiträge zu Hegels Wissenschaft der Logik, der Kunst und des Religiösen, Berlin: Duncker und Humblot. - Hast, Klaus, 1991, Hegels ästhetische Reflexion des freien Subjekts. Der Satz vom Ende der Kunst im Lichte eines vernachlässigten Aspekts, New York: Peter Lang. - Hebing, Niklas, 2015, Hegels Ästhetik des Komischen, Hamburg: Felix Meiner. - –––, 2016, “Die Außenwelt der Innenwelt: Hegel über Architektur,” Verifiche, XLV(1–2): 105–48. - Hilmer, Brigitte, 1997, Scheinen des Begriffs. Hegels Logik der Kunst, Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag. - Ianelli, Francesca, 2007, Das Siegel der Moderne. Hegels Bestimmung des Hässlichen in den Vorlesungen zur Ästhetik und die Rezeption bei den Hegelianern, Munich: Wilhelm Fink Verlag. - Kraft, Stephan, 2010, “Hegel, das Unterhaltungslustspiel und das Ende der Kunst,” Hegel-Studien, 45: 81–102. - Kwon, Dae-Joong, 2004, Das Ende der Kunst. Analyse und Kritik der Voraussetzungen von Hegels These, Würzburg: Königshausen und Neumann. - Kwon, Jeong-Im, 2001, Hegels Bestimmung der Kunst. Die Bedeutung der “symbolischen Kunstform” in Hegels Ästhetik, Munich: Wilhelm Fink Verlag. - –––, 2012, “Eine Untersuchung zu Hegels Auffassung der modernen Musik,” Journal of the Faculty of Letters, 37: 7–25. - Oetjen, Malte, 2003, Das Ende der Kunst bei Hegel, Norderstedt: GRIN Verlag. - Pocai, Romano, 2014, Philosophie, Kunst und Moderne. Überlegungen mit Hegel und Adorno, Berlin: Xenomoi Verlag. - Pöggeler, Otto, 1984, Die Frage nach der Kunst. Von Hegel zu Heidegger, Freiburg: Verlag Karl Alber. - Pöggeler, Otto et al (eds.), 1981, Hegel in Berlin. Preußische Kulturpolitik und idealistische Ästhetik. Zum 150. Todestag des Philosophen, Berlin: Staatsbibliothek Preußischer Kulturbesitz. - Pöggeler, Otto, und Gethmann-Siefert, Annemarie (eds.), 1983, Kunsterfahrung und Kulturpolitik im Berlin Hegels, Bonn: Bouvier Verlag. - Rinaldi, Giacomo, 2002/03, “Musik und Philosophie im Ausgang von Hegel,” Jahrbuch für Hegelforschung, 8/9: 109–117. - –––, 2023, Kasseler Vorlesungen über Hegels Kunstphilosophie, Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang. - Roche, Mark William, 2002/03, “Größe und Grenzen von Hegels Theorie der Tragödie,” Jahrbuch für Hegelforschung, 8/9: 53–81. - –––, 2002/03, “Hegels Theorie der Komödie im Kontext hegelianischer und moderner Überlegungen zur Komödie,” Jahrbuch für Hegelforschung, 8/9: 83–108. - Rollmann, Veit-Justus, 2005, Das Kunstschöne in Hegels Ästhetik am Beispiel der Musik, Marburg: Tectum. - Sandkaulen, Birgit (ed.), 2018, G.W.F. Hegel: Vorlesungen über die Ästhetik, Berlin: De Gruyter. - Schneider, Helmut, 1995, “Hegels Theorie der Komik und die Auflösung der schönen Kunst,” Jahrbuch für Hegelforschung, 1: 81–110. - Simon, Ralf, 2013, Die Idee der Prosa. Zur Ästhetikgeschichte von Baumgarten bis Hegel mit einem Schwerpunkt bei Jean Paul, Munich: Wilhelm Fink Verlag. - Vieweg, Klaus, 2019, Hegel. Der Philosoph der Freiheit. Biographie, München: C.H. Beck. - Ziemer, Elisabeth, 1993, Heinrich Gustav Hotho (1802–1873). Ein Berliner Kunsthistoriker, Kunstkritiker und Philosoph, Berlin: Reimer Verlag. Other Relevant Works - Adorno, T.W., Aesthetic Theory, trans. R. Hullot-Kentor, London: Athlone Press, 1977. - Gethmann-Siefert, Annemarie, and Pöggeler, Otto (eds.), 1995, Kunst als Kulturgut. Die Bildersammlung der Brüder Boisserée, Bonn: Bouvier Verlag. - Herodotus, The Histories, trans. A de Sélincourt, rev. J. Marincola, Harmondsworth: Penguin Books, 2003. - Kant, Immanuel, Critique of the Power of Judgment, trans. P. Guyer and E. Matthews, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000. - Pippin, Robert, 2005, The Persistence of Subjectivity. On the Kantian Aftermath, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. - Schiller, Friedrich, 1793, “Kallias or Concerning Beauty: Letters to Gottfried Körner”, in Classical and Romantic German Aesthetics, ed. J.M. Bernstein, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003, 145–83. Academic Tools How to cite this entry. Preview the PDF version of this entry at the Friends of the SEP Society. Look up topics and thinkers related to this entry at the Internet Philosophy Ontology Project (InPhO). Enhanced bibliography for this entry at PhilPapers, with links to its database.


--- [Romantic Arts - hegel.net] ---
Toggle navigation ☰ System Searchable list of all triangles Phenomenology Logic Nature Subjective Spirit Objective Spirit Art Religion Philosophy Articles all articles in a searchable table Website News (new articles etc) Hegel Life Gallery Timeline Contempories Reception in Germany Reception in the UK Reception in the USA Resources FAQ Poster Hegel audio books 'Owl of Minerva' articles index Hegel editions eTexts Links Discuss Game Info How to use People involved Email the editor Imprint Terms of use Privacy Policy A文 deutsch english français italiano español português русский 中国 한국의 日本の हिन्दी العربية Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 outline One level back to Individual arts 3.3.1.3.3. Romantic Arts 3.3.1.3.3.1. Painting 3.3.1.3.3.2. Music 3.3.1.3.3.3. Poetry One level further to Painting One level further to Music One level further to Poetry One level back to Individual arts 3.3.1.3.3. Romantic Arts One level further to Painting One level further to Music One level further to Poetry Painting Painting 3.3.1.3.3.1. Painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.1. General character of painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.2. Particular determination of paintings 3.3.1.3.3.1.3. Historical development of painting One level further to General character of painting One level further to Particular determination of paintings One level further to Historical development of painting Music Music 3.3.1.3.3.2. Music 3.3.1.3.3.2.1. General character of music 3.3.1.3.3.2.2. Musical means 3.3.1.3.3.2.3. Position of music to its contents One level further to General character of music One level further to Musical means One level further to Position of music to its contents Poetry Poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3. Poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.1. Difference Poetry vs Prose 3.3.1.3.3.3.2. Poetic expression 3.3.1.3.3.3.3. Genres of poetry One level further to Difference Poetry vs Prose One level further to Poetic expression One level further to Genres of poetry One level back to Individual arts 3.3.1.3.3. Romantic Arts One level further to Painting One level further to Music One level further to Poetry Painting Painting 3.3.1.3.3.1. Painting One level further to General character of painting One level further to Particular determination of paintings One level further to Historical development of painting One level back to Painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.1. General character of painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.1.1. General content of the painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.1.2. Sensual material of painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.1.3. Artistic treatment One level further to General content of the painting One level further to Sensual material of painting One level further to Artistic treatment One level back to Painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.2. Particular determination of paintings 3.3.1.3.3.1.2.1. Romantic content of paintings 3.3.1.3.3.1.2.2. More detailed provisions of the sensual material 3.3.1.3.3.1.2.3. Artistic execution One level further to Romantic content of paintings One level further to More detailed provisions of the sensual material One level further to Artistic execution One level back to Painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.3. Historical development of painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.3.1. Byzantine painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.3.2. Italian painting 3.3.1.3.3.1.3.3. Dutch and German One level further to Byzantine painting One level further to Italian painting (catholic) One level further to Dutch and German (protestant) painting Music Music 3.3.1.3.3.2. Music One level further to General character of music One level further to Musical means One level further to Position of music to its contents One level back to Music 3.3.1.3.3.2.1. General character of music 3.3.1.3.3.2.1.1. Comparison of music with other arts 3.3.1.3.3.2.1.2. Conception of the content of music 3.3.1.3.3.2.1.3. Effect of music One level further to Comparison of music with other arts One level further to Conception of the content of music One level further to Effect of music One level back to Music 3.3.1.3.3.2.2. Musical means 3.3.1.3.3.2.2.1. Temporal movement 3.3.1.3.3.2.2.2. Harmony in the music 3.3.1.3.3.2.2.3. Melody One level further to Temporal movement One level further to Harmony in the music One level further to Melody One level back to Music 3.3.1.3.3.2.3. Position of music to its contents 3.3.1.3.3.2.3.1. Accompanying music 3.3.1.3.3.2.3.2. Independent music 3.3.1.3.3.2.3.3. Artistic execution One level further to Accompanying music One level further to Independent music One level further to Artistic execution Poetry Poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3. Poetry One level further to Difference Poetry vs Prose One level further to Poetic expression One level further to Genres of poetry One level back to Poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.1. Difference Poetry vs Prose 3.3.1.3.3.3.1.1. Modes of perceptions of Poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.1.2. The poetic and prosaic work of art 3.3.1.3.3.3.1.3. Poetic subjectivity One level further to Modes of perceptions of Poetry One level further to The poetic and prosaic work of art One level further to Poetic subjectivity One level back to Poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.2. Poetic expression 3.3.1.3.3.3.2.1. Poetic imagination 3.3.1.3.3.3.2.2. Verbal expression 3.3.1.3.3.3.2.3. Versification One level further to Poetic imagination ('Vorstellung') One level further to Verbal expression One level further to Versification One level back to Poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.3. Genres of poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.3.1. Epic poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.3.2. Lyrical poetry 3.3.1.3.3.3.3.3. Dramatic poetry One level further to Epic poetry One level further to Lyrical poetry One level further to Dramatic poetry Hegel's 'System of Science' Logic Nature Spirit/Mind Subjective Spirit/Mind Objective Spirit/Mind Absolute Art The ideal Art forms Individual arts Architecture Sculpture Romantic Arts Painting Music Poetry Religion Philosophy hegel.net Romantic Arts Contributions Hegel texts on this topic PDF: Encyclopedia 1830, Vol.3: Phil. of Mind/Spirit (218KB) PDF: Erdmann's History of Philosophy, 1/3 (best comment) (29MB) Books of Hegelians (PDF) see also


--- [Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich (1770–1831) - Encyclopedia.com] ---
Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich (1770–1831) HEGEL, GEORG WILHELM FRIEDRICH (1770–1831) Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, the German idealist philosopher, was born at Stuttgart and entered the theological seminary at the University of Tübingen in 1788. Among his fellow students were Friedrich von Schelling and the poet Friedrich Hölderlin. After graduating he became, in 1793, a resident tutor in the home of an aristocratic family at Bern, and in 1796 he took a similar post in Frankfurt. In 1800 he went to Jena, where Schelling had succeeded Johann Gottlieb Fichte as professor of philosophy and was developing an idealist philosophy of nature and metaphysics. Having been accepted as a teacher at Jena on the strength of his dissertation, De Orbitis Planetarum (1801), Hegel collaborated with Schelling in editing the philosophical journal Kritisches Journal der Philosophie and published his first book, Differenz des Fichte'schen und Schelling'schen Systems der Philosophie (1801). Notable articles by Hegel in the Kritisches Journal were "Glauben und Wissen" (1802) and "Über die wissenschaftlichen Behandlungsarten des Naturrechts" (1802–1803). At Jena, Hegel wrote his first major work, Phänomenologie des Geistes (Phenomenology of Mind, Würzburg and Bamberg, 1807). Completed about the time of Napoleon Bonaparte's victory over the Prussians at Jena in 1806, it was not published until 1807, after Hegel had left Jena to become editor of a daily paper at Bamberg in Bavaria. In 1808, Hegel was appointed headmaster of a school in Nuremberg, a post he held until 1816. While at Nuremberg, Hegel published his Wissenschaft der Logik (Science of Logic )—Vol. I, Die objective Logik (2 vols., Nuremberg, 1812–1813, and Vol. II, Die subjective Logik oder Lehre vom Begriff (Nuremberg, 1816). From 1816 to 1818, Hegel was professor of philosophy at Heidelberg. There he published Encyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse (Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Outline ) in 1817. In 1818, Hegel was appointed professor at the University of Berlin, where he became famous and influential. Naturrecht und Staatswissenschaft im Grundrisse (Philosophy of Right ) appeared there in 1821; a second edition, edited by E. Gans as Grundlinien der Philosophie des Rechts, was published in Berlin in 1833. In 1827 a second, much enlarged edition of the Encyclopedia appeared. Hegel died during a cholera epidemic in 1831. After his death a group of his friends compiled an edition of his works in eighteen volumes (Berlin, 1832–1840). Several of Hegel's works were published for the first time in this edition: Vorlesungen über die Aesthetik (Lectures on aesthetics; translated as The Philosophy of Fine Art, edited by H. G. Hotho, 2 vols., 1835–1838); Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Geschichte (Lectures on the Philosophy of History, edited by E. Gans, 1837); Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Religion (Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion, edited by Philipp Marheineke, 2 vols., 1832); and Vorlesungen über die Geschichte der Philosophie (Lectures on the History of Philosophy, edited by K. L. Michelet, 2 vols., 1833–1836). This edition also contains notes taken by students of Hegel's comments on the Encyclopedia and on Philosophy of Right, which he was in the habit of using as textbooks. In his biography, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegels Leben (Berlin, 1844), Karl Rosenkranz referred to and quoted from the manuscripts of works written by Hegel prior to the publication of the Phenomenology of Mind. Not all the manuscripts known to Rosenkranz have survived, but toward the end of the nineteenth century Wilhelm Dilthey made a study of those that have and published an account and discussion of them in the Proceedings of the Berlin Academy in 1905. This has since received the title Die Jugendgeschichte Hegels and is reprinted in the fourth volume of Dilthey's collected works. Dilthey's pupil and editor, Herman Nohl, then published, under the title Hegels theologische Jugendschriften, the text of a great part of what Hegel had written while he was at Bern and Frankfurt. The chief of the writings unpublished during Hegel's lifetime are the essay "Das Leben Jesu" ("Life of Jesus," 1795), Die Positivität der christlichen Religion (The Positivity of the Christian Religion, 1796), and Der Geist des Christentums und sein Schicksal (Spirit of Christianity and Its Destiny, 1799). In 1915, Hans Ehrenberg and Herbert Link published, under the title Hegels erstes System (Heidelberg, 1915), an early version, written at Jena but never published by Hegel, of what later became the system sketched in the Encyclopedia. Since then Georg Lasson (Hegels Jenenser Logik, Leipzig, 1923) and Johannes Hoffmeister (Hegels Jenenser Realphilosophie, 2 vols., Leipzig, 1932) have published still other writings that Hegel had left unpublished. Thus, much more is now known about Hegel's writings and philosophical development than was generally known in the nineteenth century. Main Themes of Hegel's Philosophy mind In the preface to the Phenomenology, Hegel wrote that only mind (Geist ) is real, and he constantly reiterated this view. (I have translated Hegel's Geist as "mind," in agreement with William Wallace's view that "to average English ears the word Spiritual would carry us over the medium line into the proper land of religiosity"—Hegel's Philosophy of Mind, Oxford, 1894, p. 1.) Thus, he must be regarded as a philosophical idealist. He wrote rather slightingly of George Berkeley, however, whose works he does not seem to have studied closely, and is sometimes described as an objective idealist in order to absolve him from suspicion of the subjective idealism that has often been attributed to Berkeley. Hegel's idealism presupposed the work of Immanuel Kant and was influenced by Fichte and Schelling, but his early unpublished writings show that he had preoccupations of his own, independent of his famous German predecessors. When Hegel said that only mind is real, he did not mean that material things do not exist and that only minds do. Mind was not, in Hegel's view, a plurality of immaterial substances but a system of individuals actively developing their potentialities by embodying them in increasingly complex forms. A fundamental feature of mind, according to Hegel, is freedom, and nothing that is partial or finite can be wholly free. The mind that is the only reality is therefore infinite. Furthermore, no one is free unless he is conscious of what he is doing, and infinite mind is therefore self-conscious mind. Artists and statesmen, merchants and saints, all busy themselves with their more or less partial tasks without necessarily concerning themselves with what it is that they are doing. According to Hegel, it is the function of the philosopher to make men conscious of what art and politics, commerce and religion, are, so that mind can exert itself to its utmost range and thus become absolute. Like Pythagoras, Plotinus, and Benedict de Spinoza, Hegel was a philosopher who held that philosophy is an activity that purifies and frees the mind. dialectic Hegel is, of course, famous for his dialectical method, but it is enormously difficult to explain this in a brief compass. It should first be noted that Hegel set out his systematic writings in dialectical triads comprising a thesis, antithesis, and synthesis. Thus, he divided his Encyclopedia, in which he expounded his system as a whole, into three fundamental division sections—"Logic," "Philosophy of Nature," and "Philosophy of Mind." In the first he expounded the categories as developing forms of thought; in the second, he said "the Idea" is considered in its "otherness" (Anderssein ) or externality; and in the third, mind is considered as existing "for itself," as conscious of itself and of the institutions it has given rise to. Within these main divisions there are further triadic subdivisions, although a very large number of subdivisions are not of this nature. It is therefore clear that Hegel himself regarded his whole work as a dialectical construction, with thought and nature as opposites united in mind and society, in the artistic and religious products of man, and, ultimately, in the activity of philosophical self-consciousness. Hegel's system, then, has a dialectical structure, but what is his dialectical method? Hegel, like Spinoza, held that error resides in incompleteness and abstraction, but, unlike Spinoza, he held that the incompleteness and abstraction can be recognized by the contradictions they generate. It is the business of the philosopher, he held, to bring out the contradictions latent in partial or abstract views and to emphasize and elaborate them in such a way that less partial and less abstract views can be constructed that nevertheless retain in themselves what there was of truth in the original views. The same method is to be brought to bear on the less partial and less abstract views in their turn and to be pressed as thoroughly as it can be. This method of pressing and accentuating contradictions is not to be used merely to discard error but also to preserve truth. Because of the happy circumstance that in German aufheben means both "to cancel" and "to preserve"—its literal meaning is "to lift up"—Hegel was able to express this aspect of his view with brevity and acuity. The concept or view that is aufgehoben is transcended without being wholly discarded. Hegel's Phenomenology of Mind was an account of how various human attitudes—reliance on sense experience, the belief in substance, otherworldliness, strenuous moralism, and so on—all have some point and are yet contradictory, leading to the conclusion that "truth is a bacchanalian revel where not a member is sober," as Hegel put it in the Preface. His Logic gave an account of how the categories are related in this way. In his Lectures on the History of Philosophy he sought to show that the major philosophical outlooks from that of the Ionians on are, on the one hand, positive contributions that we could not do without and, on the other hand, contradictions that we have to overcome. history Another feature of Hegel's philosophy is its concern with history. Much as Hegel admired Plato's philosophy, he held that it was impossible to be a Platonist in the nineteenth century, when the philosophical context differed so greatly from that of Plato's day. In his Lectures on the Philosophy of History, Hegel argued that the history of man in the concrete was as much a progression as the history of his thought. This he deduced from the thesis that mind is of its very nature free. Thus, each historical epoch, according to Hegel, embodied some aspect of or stage in the development of man's free mind, and it would be absurd for an individual to go counter to his time except insofar as he was preparing the way for future epochs. Hegel borrowed this "progressivism," as it may be called, from the philosophers of the Enlightenment. It has greatly influenced Marxism. christianity Hegel thought his system provided a defense of Christianity, and both supporters and opponents of his system have taken this view of it. Those known as right Hegelians considered Hegel's apologetic successful, whereas the left Hegelians argued that his Christianity had been only superficial and his Christian terminology a disguise for something very different. In his system Hegel placed philosophy above religion in the dialectical scale, and this may give some support for the interpretations of the left. Yet there is ambiguity in Hegel's view on this, as on other important matters. On one hand, he held that only infinite mind is real; on the other hand, he held that infinite mind cannot be distinct from or beyond the finite and partial. He thought that these views were not incompatible, but it has been argued that the second is a denial of the first and, hence, a denial of any form of theism. This entry will briefly describe Hegel's early works that were posthumously published in Hegels theologische Jugendschriften. It will continue with an account of the Phenomenology of Mind, Hegel's first important book, and conclude with a brief discussion of the Hegelian system based chiefly on the Encyclopedia. Early Unpublished Writings "life of jesus" Even before he wrote his "Life of Jesus," Hegel had written some comments on Christianity in which he criticized it for its belief in the efficacy of prayer and had contrasted it, to its detriment, with the this-worldly, social religion of the Greeks. Jesus, he held, was obscurantist and narrow-minded in comparison with Socrates. In the "Life of Jesus" it almost seems as if Hegel had decided to rewrite the Gospels in the form of a Kantian manifesto. He began by claiming that God is pure reason. He described Jesus as the son of Joseph and Mary. The only miracles Hegel mentioned he interpreted naturalistically, bringing the work to an end with the death and burial of Jesus. The central theme is the conflict between the virtuous Jesus acting dutifully for the sake of the moral law and the Jewish priesthood calling for the meticulous observance of a set of irrational rules said to be commanded by God. Jesus is depicted as saying to the Pharisees, "When you regard your ecclesiastical statutes and positive commands as the supreme law given to mankind, you fail to understand the dignity of man and the power he has of creating out of himself the idea of the divinity and knowledge of his will." This improbable allocution is typical of the way in which this work denudes the Gospel narrative of what is individual and poetical. the positivity of the christian religion The theme of The Positivity of the Christian Religion —the place in the Christian religion of the rational, on the one hand, and of the merely factual and historical, on the other—was already raised in the "Life of Jesus." Developing the implications of the then current distinctions between natural law and positive law and between natural religion and positive religion, Hegel argued that the positive element rested on authority and was not wholly based on the dignity of man. In Christianity, according to Hegel, the main positive element was provided by Judaism, a highly authoritarian religion. But Jesus himself brought elements of positivity into the rational morality that it was his prime aim to teach; he could not have obtained a hearing from the Jews of his day if he had not claimed God's authority for his teachings. "Jesus therefore demands attention for his teachings, not because they are adapted to the moral needs of our spirit, but because they are God's will" (Early Theological Writings, p. 76). In claiming to be the Messiah, Jesus was using the language his listeners would understand. His followers, from a natural interest in the details of his life, developed these positive elements into Christianity. They appealed to miracles as proofs of Jesus' divinity and virtue, and instead of revering him for his teaching about virtue, they revered his teaching about virtue because of the miracles he was supposed to have performed. Hegel asked how it happened that the pagan religion of the Greeks and Romans was overcome by Christianity. His answer was that at the periods of their greatness the Greeks and Romans were free peoples each individual of which regarded his own good as inseparable from the good of his community. When they lost their freedom, they lost the motives that bound them to their fellows; government and authority were now imposed from without, weighing down upon isolated individuals who came to regard their lives as individual possessions to be preserved irrespective of the social whole that alone gave them meaning. Thus the despotism of the Roman emperors had chased the human spirit from the earth and spread a misery which compelled men to seek and expect happiness in heaven; robbed of freedom, their spirit, their eternal and absolute element, was forced to take flight to the deity. [The doctrine of] God's objectivity is a counterpart to the corruption and slavery of man. (ibid., pp. 162–163) the spirit of christianity In The Spirit of Christianity Hegel continued and sharpened his attack on Judaism, which he regarded as a religion of domination. He now criticized Kantian ethics as well, however, finding in it elements of the same positivity he had criticized in the Jewish religion and had seen as a contamination in the teachings of Jesus. Kant had contrasted his rational religion with the religion of the Siberian shamans on the ground that these primitive men, as well as some civilized prelates and puritans, irrationally worshiped alien forces that they regarded as exerting domination over men. But according to Hegel, the difference between the believers in these positive creeds and the follower of the religion approved by Kant is "not that the former make themselves slaves, while the latter is free, but that the former have their lord outside themselves, while the latter carries his lord in himself, yet at the same time is his own slave" (ibid., p. 211). Hegel here first used the word morality (Moralität ) as a pejorative description of the Kantian morality, which he now considered to be a submission of man's inclinations, including his impulses and his feelings of love, to a universal reason held to be free from and above all passion. He held that virtue demands more than this and that in the Sermon on the Mount Jesus made higher demands. "The Sermon does not teach reverence for the laws; on the contrary, it exhibits that which fulfils the law but annuls it as law and so is something higher than obedience to law and makes law superfluous" (ibid., p. 212). Thus, duty takes a lower place than love. "Jesus makes a general demand on his hearers to surrender their rights, to lift themselves above the whole sphere of justice or injustice by love, for in love there vanish not only rights but also the feeling of inequality and the hatred of enemies which this feeling's imperative demand for equality implies" (ibid., p. 218). Hegel here saw in the ethics of the Sermon on the Mount and in the conduct of Jesus something of the "beautiful soul" described by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in Wilhelm Meister. Jesus retained his dignity by refusing to defend himself or to uphold his rights. Hegel went on to discuss with subtlety the possible consequences for the individual and for other men of resistance to evil, on the one hand, and of withdrawal from conflict, on the other. In this part of the work the beginnings of dialectical method as it was used a few years later in Phenomenology of Mind may already be discerned. Phenomenology of Mind The Phenomenology is the most obscure and the most interesting of Hegel's works. On the title page it is described as a "System of Science, Part I. The Phenomenology of Mind," but this arrangement of Hegel's system was not continued in the Encyclopedia, where the section headed "Phenomenology of Mind" is contained in the third part and deals with only some of the topics of the original Phenomenology. Hegel put the Phenomenology together rather hastily and was uncertain what to call it. Different copies of the first edition have slightly differing titles, and what seems like a new title, "Science of the Experience of Consciousness," is placed after the preface and before the introduction. Insofar as there is a central theme, it consists of an account of the various stages of human consciousness from mere sense awareness to absolute knowledge, but there are many digressions into topics of current interest, such as Goethe's description of the "beautiful soul," the Reign of Terror, and F. J. Gall's phrenology. The difference between the dialectical progression of the Phenomenology and of the Encyclopedia was cited soon after Hegel's death as evidence of the inadequacy of the dialectical method (C. F. Bachmann, Über Hegels System und die Nothwendigkeit einer nochmaligen Umgestaltung der Philosophie, Leipzig, 1833). In the twentieth century Marxists preferred the Phenomenology to Hegel's other writings because Karl Marx himself admired it and because of its account of how man develops by transforming the natural world through his labor. Existentialists have preferred it to the later system because of its account of man as maker of himself; no doubt they are also impressed by Hegel's references to death and the fear of death. The Phenomenology begins with a dialectical discussion of sense perception in which it is argued that knowledge of physical things presupposes the view that the physical world consists of forces interacting according to laws. Hegel maintained that knowledge of such a world is really a type of self-knowledge, since in penetrating to the forces behind phenomena we become aware of what we ourselves have devised and put there. "Behind the so-called curtain which is to hide the internal constitution of things, there is nothing to be seen unless we ourselves go behind." The physical world of scientific theory presupposes self-conscious beings. When he analyzed self-consciousness, Hegel argued that it presupposed a plurality of living and desiring beings each of whom seeks to subdue the world to his own wishes, to make it part of himself. master and slave No individual will rest satisfied with a conquest that fails to secure the conscious acknowledgment of other men. Hence, there is a struggle for both power and recognition. In this struggle some will take greater risks than their competitors; those who risk the least will become the slaves or bondsmen of those who face death by risking their lives. In order to preserve his life, the slave submits to the master, who regards the slave as nothing but a means to his own designs. The slave is forced to work, whereas the master can enjoy leisure in the knowledge that the slave is reshaping the natural world to provide the products of his labor for the master to consume. Thus, the master's leisure protects him from experience of the negativity of nature, whereas the slave, in struggling with nature's recalcitrance, learns its secrets and puts mind into it. The master, in consuming, destroys; the slave, in working, creates. But the master's consumption depends upon the slave's work and is thus impermanent, whereas the slave's labor passes into things that have a permanent existence. Hegel argued, too, that the slave's work in transforming the natural world is a consequence of his fear of the master, who can kill him. Death is overcome by the works of civilization. The man who risks his life and becomes the first master breaks the bonds of nature and starts the process that will incorporate mind into it. It is not surprising that this section in the Phenomenology has greatly interested Marxists. Both Georg Lukács, in Der junge Hegel, and Herbert Marcuse, in Reason and Revolution (2nd ed., London and New York, 1955), contrived to discuss it without mentioning Hegel's emphasis on the fear of death. In Introduction à la lecture de Hegel, Alexandre Kojève brought out the importance of the fear of death and showed, too, that Hegel was here concerned with the transition from nature to history, from mere life to thought, from animality to freedom. the unhappy consciousness The next dialectical transition is from mind that is attempting to master nature to mind that seeks freedom and independence in itself, that says, "It is in thinking that I am free because I am not in another but remain completely with myself alone," an attitude exemplified in stoicism. But stoicism passes over into skepticism, for the stoic finds freedom in himself as a rational, thinking being, whereas the skeptic, pushing freedom still further, uses thought to dissipate its own categories. This, according to Hegel, was the state of mind that prevailed when the Roman Empire was dissolving. Christianity was an attempt on the part of men in intellectual despair to find stability in an eternal and infinite God. Hegel called this frame of mind the unhappy consciousness. The individual is divided within himself, conscious of his own isolation, attributing all that is good to the activity of God. What Hegel said here was elaborated from a passage in The Positivity of the Christian Religion describing how the eternal and absolute in man had been "forced to take flight to the Deity." The unhappy consciousness was regarded by Hegel as a characteristic of both Judaism and Christianity and as the condition of all men at all times who believe in a transcendent God before whom they are as nothing. It is a stage on the way to higher forms of self-mastery. It will be noted that in this part of the Phenomenology Hegel passed from epistemology through a sort of speculative sociology to an account of historical stages in human consciousness. According to Rosenkranz, Hegel, in his last years, used to refer to the Phenomenology as his philosophical "voyage of discovery," and it does seem that the course of the argument, although arresting, was not altogether foreseen. Josiah Royce was right when he said that in this book Hegel described "in serial order, some varieties of experience which … are at once characteristic of the general evolution of the higher intellectual life, and are examples of the transition from common sense naiveté to philosophical reflection and to the threshold of an idealistic system" (Lectures on Modern Idealism, edited by J. Loewenberg, New Haven, 1919, p. 139). reason as "objectivity" After discussing certain scientific theories of his time under the heading "Reason as Observer," Hegel went on to consider some of the ways in which reason becomes practical. He depicted the man who, like Faust, tries to make the passing moment stay. When this attempt fails, as inevitably it must, ideals are sought in a spirit of sentimental disillusionment, but such romantic crusades are never really serious. In reaction to this frivolity there develops a taste for the hard intellectual pursuits of disinterested scholarship, the concern for "objectivity," for facts, for "the thing itself." But these allegedly disinterested researchers actually go into a sort of intellectual jungle (das geistige Thierreich ) where, deceiving one another and themselves, they tear one another to pieces in the service of truth. It soon emerges that it is not the facts that matter but a certain proprietorship that scholars working in their special fields claim over the facts. the dialectic of morality In the next part of the Phenomenology, titled "Mind," Hegel considered how the mind of man is embodied in his rules and institutions. This part constitutes both an account of the main types of moral attitude and a philosophy of history. These two lines of thought come together insofar as Hegel regarded the historical development from the Greek and Roman civilizations through early and medieval Christianity to Protestantism and the French Revolution as an unfolding of the main aspects and stages of freedom and, hence, as a dialectical actualization of what was merely latent and implicit in the morality of the ancient world. This unfolding is dialectical because it proceeds by oscillations and because it is made possible by conflict, in the ancient world by the conflict between the gods of the family and the laws of the city and in the modern world by the conflict between the claims of the individual and the demands of society. In this part Hegel gave indications of the doctrine of alienation that attracted Marx in the 1840s. In building his civilization, man creates institutions and rules that are simultaneously his own products and alien constraints upon him. He may not even understand them, so that they appear strange to him. It was Hegel's view, of course, that without these institutions and rules and without the restrictions upon willfulness that they impose, mind could not reach its higher levels. religion and absolute knowledge In the last two parts of the Phenomenology, Hegel presented the dialectic of religion and the passage to absolute knowledge. In the earlier developments of mind the individual has to find his place in the natural world and in society, but in religion he gains consciousness of the Absolute Being. This is first approached in the primitive religions of nature, in which men worship trees, streams, or animals. Next come those forms of religion in which the Absolute Being is approached through such works of art as temples and statues. This type of religion reached a high level in ancient Greece, but when God was represented in human form, he came to be regarded as merely human and hence was lost sight of in the tragic heroes of Greek drama. As the religious element was discarded from tragedy, it gave way to comedy, in which the contingencies of human life were paraded and criticized, and God was completely ignored in favor of human self-knowledge. "The individual self is the negative force through and in which the gods … disappear." This skeptical and sophisticated humanism is succeeded by Christianity, in which God is revealed to man in Christ. Here the human and the divine are no longer sundered, and God is seen to be present in the world. But it is easy to overemphasize the historical features of Christianity and, as Hegel put it, to neglect the spiritual revelation in the attempt to uncover the often commonplace ideas of the early Christians and to gain knowledge of the mere externality and particularity of Jesus. Thus, no religious experience, not even that of Christianity, can bring absolute knowledge. The historical element in Christianity, although necessary in order to avoid regarding the Absolute Being as apart from the world, is nevertheless inseparable from perception and imagination. The events of the Gospels are, so to speak, pictured or represented. Religion therefore leads on but is subordinate to the supreme form of knowledge, the philosophical, in which human history is "conceived history, the recollection of the Absolute Mind and its graveyard, the actuality, truth and certainty of its throne, without which it would be for ever alone and devoid of life." In these last words of the Phenomenology, Hegel made it clear that the course of history, philosophically conceived, was in his view the incarnation of the Absolute Mind. Apart from the history of man God would be alone and lifeless (das leblose Einsame ). It would seem, indeed, that without the historical development of man and his freedom there would be no God. The Hegelian System It has already been mentioned that before writing the Phenomenology, Hegel had written but had left unpublished some attempts at a complete system of philosophy and that the Phenomenology was described on its title page as the first part of a system of science. It turned out that the Science of Logic (1812–1816) became the first part of Hegel's final system. A shortened and revised version of the Science of Logic appeared in 1817 as the first part of the Encyclopedia, a book intended for use at his lectures. A second, very much elaborated edition of the Encyclopedia appeared in 1827, and a third in 1830. This last edition was reprinted in the edition of Hegel's collected works published soon after his death, with inserted "additions" taken from the notebooks of students who had attended Hegel's lectures. These additions, which are most frequent in the first and second parts of the Encyclopedia, help greatly in the understanding of Hegel's argument but do not have quite the authority of the main text. Such additions are less frequent at the end, since the editors considered that the Philosophy of Right, first published in 1821, and some of the sets of lectures, provide commentary of this sort. the encyclopedia The Encyclopedia starts with a discussion of "Logic"—a revision of Science of Logic —and proceeds to the sections "Philosophy of Nature" and "Philosophy of Mind." The transition from the "Logic" to the "Philosophy of Nature" is not easy to understand. There are statements that say that the idea decides to allow nature to go forth freely from itself (Sec. 244), that "Nature has come to pass as the Idea in the form of otherness" (Sec. 247), and that nature is "the unresolved contradiction" (Sec. 248). The last main heading in the "Philosophy of Nature" is "The Animal Organism." Toward the end of this section there is an account of the individual animal as having "an original sickness" and "an innate germ of death" (Sec. 375), which leads to the assertion that with the subjectivity of living organisms the "outside-itself-ness" (Aussersichsein ) of nature is transcended by the "interiority" (Insichsein ) of actuality (Sec. 376). Hegel later claimed (Sec. 381) that mind presupposes nature but is "the truth [of nature] and its absolute ground [deren absolut Erstes ]." He also stated that the essence of mind is freedom (Sec. 382). A fundamental comment on the dominating triadic division must be made before going further into the details of the system. The revised "Science of Logic" that appeared in the Encyclopedia was concerned with the categories of thought, proceeding from the most inadequate and abstract to the most concrete and adequate, from being to the Absolute Idea. The inadequacies of the abstract categories show themselves through the contradictions they give rise to. Being is more abstract than becoming; becoming, more abstract than being-for-self; these early categories, more abstract than the latter categories of life, and so on. But Hegel was always concerned with the categories of thought and their relations to one another. When he wrote that the idea decided to allow nature to go forth freely from itself, was he saying that thought is the Divine Being that created nature? The religious overtones that accompany Hegel's major transitions cannot be ignored, but those who wish to interpret him naturalistically—an interpretation his early writings and the Phenomenology may well justify—can take the view that the decision and the free going forth are meant to indicate that nature is not deducible from the categories of thought, that there is a contingency about it that no system of logic and no elaboration of concepts can eliminate. In Subjekt-Objekt (Berlin, 1951) Ernst Bloch suggested that the free decision of the Absolute Idea is reminiscent of the arbitrary act of an absolute monarch, and he quoted a passage from Schelling's Philosophie und Religion (Tübingen, 1804) which held that "the descent of finite things from the Absolute" is a "primal accident [Urzufall ]." In the third part of the Encyclopedia, Hegel described mind as it develops in the natural world, mind as it transforms the natural world in creating the works of civilization, and mind fully aware of itself in the complete self-consciousness of philosophical thought. The "Logic" culminates in the Absolute Idea, the most adequate category but still a category. In the "Philosophy of Nature," where there is no Absolute, the culminating point consists of mortal individuals belonging to persisting animal species. The "Philosophy of Mind" culminates in Absolute Mind, the consciousness man gains of himself through understanding his own history in a civilization that he has imposed upon the contingencies of nature. "logic" Like the Hegelian system as a whole, each of its three main sections—"Logic," "Philosophy of Nature," and "Philosophy of Mind"—is again divided into three. The "Logic" is divided into the "Doctrine of Being," the "Doctrine of Essence," and the "Doctrine of the Concept [Begriff ]." The difficulties in presenting a comprehensible summary of Hegel's views are at their greatest in relation to the "Logic," and all that will be attempted is an indication of a few of Hegel's most characteristic views. "Doctrine of Being." In the "Doctrine of Being" Hegel was concerned with the most abstract categories. Being itself, the most abstract of all, amounts to the same as nothing. Like Bertrand Russell in his theory of descriptions, Hegel held that nothing can be said to be unless some characteristic is attributed to it; hence, in Hegel's terminology being leads on to determinate being, which involves the notion of quality. On the ground that a quality is something distinct from other qualities, Hegel argued that quality implies the category of a unit (das Eins ) and that this in turn leads on to quantity. This part of the "Logic" was completed by transitions to degree and measure. Hegel's object in the "Doctrine of Being" was to show that these categories are not independent of one another but develop from one to the other in an ascending order of adequacy. We know more about something when we know the proportions of its parts than when we know only how many parts it has, that it is, or that it is something or other. An important element in this part of the "Logic" is Hegel's criticism of infinite numerical series as the false infinite and his contrast between the false and the true infinite, which is not an incompletable progression of similar items but a completed, complex whole of supplementary parts. The true infinite is not to be reached by attempting the impossible task of moving from one finite to the next but must comprise the finite. "Doctrine of Essence" The "Doctrine of Essence" is concerned with such distinctions as that between a thing's nature and its appearances, forces and their manifestations, form and matter. Hegel exploited the difficulties ("contradictions") that arise when these oppositions are so accentuated that we are left with featureless essences, on the one hand, and unattached appearances, on the other. Typical of his treatment of these topics is his claim that "the explanation of an appearance in terms of a force is an empty tautology" (Sec. 136) and his assertion that as a man's outward actions are, so his inner aims and intentions must be (Sec. 140). "Doctrine of the Concept" A prominent feature in the "Doctrine of the Concept" is Hegel's critical treatment and reorganization of the traditional formal logic. Thus, he classified judgments in terms of his own division of "Logic" into being, essence, and concept. The classification progresses from the mere factual attribution of a quality, through disjunctive and necessary judgments in which the predicate belongs essentially to the subject, to judgments of value that assert that a thing is good or bad just because it is that individual thing. Judgments gain in adequacy as they advance from mere factual attribution to attribution for reasons contained in the subject. Hence, the more developed forms of judgment are indistinguishable from inferences. In his account of the syllogism Hegel placed inferences in which the terms are only contingently connected at the bottom of a scale leading up to the disjunctive syllogism, in which a genus is exhaustively specified. Although Hegel retained the terms and distinctions of the traditional formal logic, the use he made of them was highly original. Instead of setting out the types of judgment and the figures and moods of the syllogism as equally valid forms, he regarded judgment as implicit inference and inference as ordered in a scale of ascending rationality. This conception of logic influenced such later writers as Christoff Sigwart and R. H. Lotze and was developed in both F. H. Bradley's Principles of Logic (London, 1883) and Bernard Bosanquet's Logic: The Morphology of Knowledge (2 vols., Oxford, 1888). The argument of Hegel's "Logic" can be very briefly summarized. The least that can be said about anything is that it is. More is said about it when it is qualified, numbered, or measured; still more is said about it when it is explained in terms of essences, grounds, or causes. Most is said about it when it is placed in the context of life, purpose, will, and value. "philosophy of nature" At the end of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth century there was a great deal of philosophizing about nature. Electricity was held to have cosmic significance, and Schelling made much of the opposition between positive and negative poles. Poets as dissimilar as William Blake and Goethe rejected what they regarded as the unduly quantitative physics of Isaac Newton. Spinoza was revived, and among German poets and philosophers much was said about the ἑν και πα̑ν, the one and the all. It is not surprising, therefore, that Hegel's dissertation of 1801, De Orbitis Planetarum, was critical of Newton and sought to provide an a priori justification of Johannes Kepler's laws. At the end of the dissertation Hegel mentioned some numerological accounts of the distances and number of the planets and expressed the opinion that if Plato was right in the Timaeus, there could be no planet between Mars and Jupiter. Hegel did not then know that Ceres, an asteroid between these two planets, had been discovered at the beginning of the year. However, even after he had heard of this discovery and of the discovery of several other asteroids soon after, he continued to hope that philosophical reasons could be given for the positions of the heavenly bodies. In an addition to Section 270 of the Encyclopedia, Hegel tried to show that these asteroids filled a gap that would otherwise have been unreasonable. The addition ends with the words: "Specialists do not think about such matters. But a time will come when in this science there will be a demand for concepts of the Reason." It should be mentioned here that Hegel accepted and developed Kant's distinction between the reason and the understanding. According to Hegel, the understanding, although a necessary stage of thought, is less philosophical than the reason. To think in terms of the understanding, as is done in mathematics, the natural sciences, and traditional metaphysics, is to think in terms of fixed and uncriticized categories, to think undialectically or in prephilosophical terms. The reason moves dialectically toward completeness in terms of fluid categories that constantly amend themselves. Thus, when Hegel wanted astronomers to pay attention to "concepts of Reason," he wanted astronomy to take its place within a system of philosophy. This place must be a subordinate one, for Hegel wrote in the Introduction to the "Philosophy of Nature" (Sec. 248): "Even if arbitrary will, the contingency of mind, leads on to wickedness, this is nevertheless something infinitely higher than the regular movements of the planets or than the innocence of the plants: for what goes wrong in that way is nevertheless mind." Here Hegel was emphasizing the gulf between mind and nature, even though he held that the understanding does not give a complete knowledge of nature. Mechanics The three main divisions of the "Philosophy of Nature" are concerned with mechanics, physics, and organic nature. The astronomical theories expounded in the first part have already been touched upon. This part also contains a brief discussion of space and time. Following Kant, Hegel regarded them both as "forms of sensibility," or, more strikingly, as "the non-sensible sensible." Although he regarded arithmetic and geometry as sciences of the understanding, he considered the possibility of a philosophical mathematics at the level of measure or proportion (mass). Physics The second part of the "Philosophy of Nature" moves through various triads from light, the elements, sound, heat, to electricity and chemical combination. Hegel commented upon the philosophical significance of each form of matter. The comment on heat is characteristic: Heat is the re-establishment of matter in its formlessness, its fluidity, the triumph of its abstract homogeneity over its specific determinations…. Formally, that is in relation to spatial determinations in general, heat therefore appears expansive, as cancelling the limitations which the specification of the indifferent occupation of space is. (Sec. 303) That is, when heat spreads out from a heated thing, that thing is not confined to one place, as it would be if it were not heated. Or as Hegel put it in the next section, heat is the "real negation of what is specific and exclusive in body." Organic nature In the last main triad of the "Philosophy of Nature," Hegel passed from geological nature through vegetable nature to the animal organism. The most interesting part of this triad is the last, in which Hegel discussed animal species and their relationships. He seems to have thought that violent death is, in the animal world, "the natural fate of the individual" and that because of the contingency of nature animal life is "uncertain, anxious, and unhappy" (Sec. 369). But other members of the same species are not only hostile to the individual; they are also, like him, continuations of the species, and, hence, the individual feels a need to unite himself to the species (Gattung ) and to continue it by copulation (Begattung )—the play on words is, of course, deliberate. Thus, Hegel seems to have held that animal sexual union is not merely a contingent affair. On the other hand, since the new individuals produced in this way only repeat the features of their parents and other ancestors, their constant reproduction is an instance of the false infinite, not of the true infinite in which completeness and perfection are achieved. "philosophy of mind" The major triad in the "Philosophy of Mind" consists of "Subjective Mind," "Objective Mind," and "Absolute Mind." "Subjective Mind" Under the heading "Subjective Mind" and the subheading "Anthropology," Hegel dealt with the soul as a natural entity in the physical world; the soul as a sensitive, feeling being; and the soul as a being that can express itself and act upon the world through its body. The upright body, the hand "as the absolute tool" (Sec. 411), the mouth, and the power of weeping and laughing all enable man to express in nature—to externalize—his thoughts and feelings. Furthermore, the world has effects upon man's body that are internalized by him—Hegel here made a play on the word Erinnerung, which means "recollection" but, if taken in the literal sense of its German etymology, can be taken to mean "internalization." When the organism reacts to immediate stimuli in the light of its own experience, mind has evolved beyond the mere animal level and has reached the stage of consciousness. Hegel discussed the next moment of subjective mind under the heading of the "Phenomenology of Mind," going through the main phases distinguished in the earlier chapters of his book with that title—namely, sense experience, perception, understanding, desire, the self-consciousness that recognizes others (containing the discussion of master and slave), reason. The third triad of subjective mind, which is headed "Psychology," contains descriptions of such intellectual functions as intention, representation, recollection, imagination, memory, and thought and descriptions of the practical drives, impulses, and seekings after satisfaction. This part ends with a brief section headed "Free Mind." Here it is asserted that the unity of theoretical and practical mind is free will. Hegel meant that human freedom is possible only on the dual basis of thought and impulse and consists of the rationalizing and systematizing of the impulses and passions. "This will to freedom," he said, "is no longer an impulse that demands satisfaction, but the character—the mind's consciousness grown into something non-impulsive" (Sec. 482). "Objective Mind" At the very end of his discussion of subjective mind Hegel wrote that the freedom which is the culmination of subjective mind is only a concept, "a principle of mind and heart destined to develop into the objective phase, into legal, moral, religious and scientific actuality" (Sec. 482). The rest of the system is therefore concerned with the ways in which the human will, in which thought and impulse ("mind and heart") are combined in freedom, becomes effective (this is the idea behind the word actuality, which translates Wirklichkeit ) in the public world, the world in which men act and in which their thoughts and deeds give rise to rules, institutions, and organizations. These rules, institutions, and organizations are independent of each man and thus may be regarded as kinds of objects, though not as physical objects. Men build up in the natural world a world other than the natural world by working on nature and transforming it and by creating systems of property, economic organizations, class differentiations, and the like. The triad that makes up objective mind comprises law (Recht ), subjective morality (as Wallace translated Moralität ), and social morality (as Wallace translated Sittlichkeit ; T. M. Knox translated it as "ethical life"). The first part covers legal rights and duties as exemplified in property, contract, and punishment. The second is concerned largely with the morality of intention and conscience—the term Moralität was used by Hegel somewhat pejoratively to mean a sort of ethics (of which Kant was, in his view, the chief exponent) in which the agent is unduly governed by the subjective and internal aspects of decision and action. The third part is itself a triad. The first stage of social morality is the family, "the natural or immediate phase" of objective mind (Philosophy of Right, Sec. 152). When members of the family have matured, they detach themselves from it and enter the world of independent men who compete in an economic arena free from tribal allegiances. This phase of social life Hegel called "civil society." It is the world of intelligent, responsible individuals in their business relationships, free from irrational tribal loyalties, allowing their connections with one another to be formed by the coincidence of wants in a market of wide extent. Indeed, it is the aspect of human society that the classical economists, whom Hegel admired, had analyzed and justified. But civil society cannot exist as a mere market, for markets need to be policed, whereas trades and industries themselves find common concerns that unite the individuals in corporations of various kinds. There is thus a double necessity for the state—as the upholder of fair dealing and as the ultimate curb on the selfishness of corporations within civil society. In the Encyclopedia, Hegel wrote of "the unification of the family principle with that of Civil Society" and described it as a unification of the love that is essential to the family with the conscious universality that is the mark of civil society (Sec. 535). In the Philosophy of Right (Sec. 257) the state was described as "the actuality [Wirklichkeit ] of the ethical Idea"—that is, as its effective embodiment. In the same section of the Philosophy of Right, Hegel wrote that "the mind of a nation (Athene for instance) is the divine, knowing and willing itself," and in an addition to Section 258 is the famous phrase "The march of God in the world, that is what the State is." But this section has been misunderstood. In the sentence before that in which he had written that the state is divine, Hegel had said, with the family in mind, "The Penates are inward gods, gods of the underworld," so that it is not only to the state that he attributed divinity. Furthermore, in the same addition as that in which he claimed that the state is "the march of God in the world," he said that the state "stands on earth and so in the sphere of caprice, chance and error, and bad behaviour may disfigure it in many respects." Hegel's main concern was, as he stated, to analyze the state at its best. Although, like Aristotle, he regarded the state as the highest social achievement of man, he also held, again like Aristotle, that within the state there should be guarantees against arbitrariness and despotism. He did not take a favorable view of "popular suffrage" on the grounds that "in large states it leads inevitably to electoral indifference" and that "election falls into the power of a few, of a caucus" (Philosophy of Right, Sec. 311). He strongly believed that all important interests should be represented and thought that there should be a constitutional monarchy with considerable powers advised by an upper and a lower house. This brings us to the most controversial part of Hegel's account of objective mind, his philosophy of history. Whatever else is involved in his view that the state is man's highest social achievement, it undoubtedly implies that there is no superior body or group by which its claims may be assessed. States are necessarily independent beings. Their relations are regulated to some degree by custom, and there is an international law that regulates dealings between subjects of different states and requires adherence to treaties, as if they were a sort of contract. When the vital interests of states clash, however, there is no alternative except war. War between states, Hegel had said in his "Die Verfassung Deutschlands" ("Constitution of Germany," 1802; first published in Schriften zur Politik und Rechtsphilosophie, edited by Georg Lasson, 2nd ed., Leipzig, 1923), does not decide which of the rights of the conflicting states is the true right—for both are—"but which right has to give way to the other." Hegel believed that war performs the function of keeping before the minds of men the realities of death and destruction. He held that states are individuals and that all individuals persist in their existence by ensuring that other individuals recognize them as they recognize the others. The very concept of a state therefore requires that there be a plurality of them, and this makes war a part of the system of states even though war is not their natural condition but an interruption of the normal state of peace. Hegel argued that since war is a relation between states and not a relation of individual men to one another, the rights and interests of noncombatants should be maintained to the utmost. For the same reason he was in favor of professional armies and against conscription or any form of levy en masse. Each nation is limited by geographical and other accidental features and hence can build up only a particular culture and can have only a particular, not a universal, history. Thus, nations, when they reach the level of statehood, make their contribution to the whole in the part they play in world history (Encyclopedia, Sec. 548). World history is not wholly an affair of chance or contingency; as the work of mind it could not be. Therefore, the history of the world has a rational structure, and any historical writing that ignored this "would be only an imbecile mental divagation, not as good as a fairy-tale" (Sec. 549). This rational structure, according to Hegel, is the development of freedom. "Absolute Mind" The triad that completes the Hegelian system is composed of art, revealed religion, and philosophy. It will be remembered that at the end of the Phenomenology Hegel proceeded from the religion of nature to the religion of art and then to the philosophical knowledge of the history of the world. In the Encyclopedia art is given what seems to be a more independent status, but the details of the argument hardly bear out the general scheme, since the transitional sections describe a transition from objective mind to religion, as in the Phenomenology. Thus, in the concluding sections of the Encyclopedia art is regarded as an inadequate form of religion, religion as a more adequate form of art, philosophy as religion freed from picture thinking and wholly rationalized, and all three as manifestations of Absolute Mind. Art is the embodiment of Absolute Mind in material things fashioned by the artist, who, in a sense, is thus "the master of the God" (Encyclopedia, Sec. 560). In classical art the embodiment takes place without any antithesis between the embodiment and the mind that is embodied. In the art of the sublime, which preceded classical art, the Absolute Mind is regarded as something that defies embodiment and remains forever beyond and behind the sensible forms that succeed only in symbolizing it. The defect of artistic representation is that the sensible symbols may be taken to refer to another world beyond, which is as limited as this world is falsely taken to be. Thus, men worship idols or even bones, "which point to the unspiritual objectivity of that other world" (ibid., Sec. 562). God is therefore not something grander and more powerful than the natural world yet fundamentally like it, nor is he something beyond the world that must remain forever inaccessible to man. God is manifested in the world, and this is the truth that revealed religion has expressed most adequately in the Christian doctrine of the Incarnation. Without this doctrine God would still be regarded as beyond the world and, thus, as incomplete and finite. Even with this doctrine he is conceived of through the medium of particular historical events that introduce an element of contingency and irrelevance into our conception of him. In philosophy the artist's external vision and the mystic's internal vision are united in a mode of thought in which there is no further conflict. The philosopher who achieves ultimate self-knowledge is freed from the conflicts that inevitably disturb the inferior levels of knowledge. By philosophizing to the end, he has made himself free (ibid., Sec. 576). The Dialectical Method contradiction It is now necessary to give more detailed attention to Hegel's dialectical method. There are interpreters of Hegel who say that Hegel denied the principle of contradiction in that he held that contradictories can both exist and that contradictory propositions can therefore both be true. Others deny this interpretation, maintaining, instead that, according to Hegel, since contradiction is a mark of inadequacy and falsehood, contradictions are to be found in the lower categories but are absent from or resolved in the Absolute Idea. This view is summed up in Michael Oakeshott's reference to "the element of self-contradiction inherent in all abstraction" (Experience and Its Modes, Cambridge, 1933, p. 328). Those who take the first view can quote some convincing passages from Hegel's Science of Logic. For example, there he wrote that "all things are in themselves contradictory," that "movement is existing contradiction itself," and that "only insofar as something has contradiction in itself does it move, have impulse or activity." If Hegel had rejected the principle of contradiction in the sense that that principle is understood by formal logicians, his case would indeed be serious, for it follows from the rejection of this principle that any proposition can be true and false and that there is thus no means of distinguishing truth from falsehood. It is important, therefore, to see whether Hegel did reject the principle of contradiction in this sense and whether its rejection is part of his dialectical method. That these questions are not easy to answer becomes apparent if we consult some of the commentators on the passages I have just quoted. J. M. E. McTaggart, in his Commentary on Hegel's Logic, was dissatisfied with the whole section and claimed that in it Hegel had allowed himself to be too much influenced by Schelling's view on polarity and opposition. "The whole point of the dialectic," McTaggart protested, "is that the perception of a contradiction is a reason for abandoning the category which we find contradictory." Indeed, he found this part of the Logic so unsatisfactory that he proposed to amend the sequence of categories by leaving out contradiction altogether. McTaggart said nothing, however, about Hegel's statement that there are existing contradictions. G. R. G. Mure, in his A Study of Hegel's Logic, did not evade this difficulty. Examining Hegel's text more closely than McTaggart had done, he pointed out that on the ground that "the contradictory cannot be imagined or thought" Hegel rejected the commonsense view that things cannot be self-contradictory but that thought can be. Mure called attention, too, to Hegel's statement that self-contradiction is not a mere disease of thought but something it must pass through on its way to truth. Furthermore, according to Hegel, it is finite things that are self-contradictory, and they are contradictory not in relation to one another but by virtue of their relation to what is infinite: Hegel "is not suggesting that Big Ben can now read both 9 p.m. and not 9 p.m." (p. 105). Although this is an improvement on McTaggart, it left out of account Hegel's statement that for something to move, it must be both here and not here at the same time. What Hegel said about movement is not altogether unlike Mure's example of Big Ben. So the difficulty remains. In the "Logic" sections of the Encyclopedia, which was written later than the Science of Logic, contradiction is not a separate category at all. Perhaps the reason for this difference is that Hegel had second thoughts and gave up the idea of contradiction in the nature of things. But although contradiction is no longer a category in the Encyclopedia, Hegel still sometimes wrote as if there were contradictions in the nature of things. For example, he stated that although such concepts as "square circle," "many-sided circle," and "straight curve" are self-contradictory, geometers nevertheless regard circles as polygons composed of very short sides and "the center and circumference of a circle as opposite and contradictory to one another" (Encyclopedia, Sec. 119). Hegel also suggested that polarity in physics goes against the ordinary logic—but he used the word opposition (Entgegensetzung ) rather than contradiction (Widerspruch ). In Geschichte der neueren Philosophie (Heidelberg, 1901, Vol. VIII, Part 2) Kuno Fischer tried to overcome the difficulty by distinguishing between two sorts of contradiction, "necessary contradiction" and "impossible contradiction." The example of a square circle illustrates the notion of an impossible contradiction, a contradictio in adjecto, for it is impossible for the same thing to be both circular and square. When a circle is regarded as a many-sided polygon, however, the contradiction is not in adjecto but in subjecto, for the circle is then being regarded as in the process of being formed or generated from these many sides. This, Fischer held, is the contradiction involved in all becoming (the first concrete category of the "Logic," the synthesis of being and nothing). Fischer's suggestion is therefore that there is not a vicious or stultifying contradiction involved in becoming or in movement, contradictory though they must in some sense be. But although this may be a correct exposition of Hegel's view, it is hardly a defense of it, since it merely repeats without explaining his claim that there are contradictions in the objective world. By drawing this distinction, Fischer has nevertheless raised the question whether Hegel intended the word contradiction to be used in the way it is used in formal logic. The answer is clear enough. Hegel did not regard formal logic as a philosophical science, and he therefore rejected any idea that its categories should dominate philosophical thought. Thus, the fact that the word contradiction is used in a certain way by formal logicians was not for him a reason for confining himself to that meaning. When Hegel was advocating the dialectical method, he had in mind a method in which oppositions, conflicts, tensions, and refutations were courted rather than avoided or evaded. Hegel was a student of the classical, laissez-faire economists who held that wealth would be maximized by the free play of competition. In this view if traders and producers ceased to compete with one another, the whole level of economic life would be lowered. General prosperity could be reached only at the expense of labor and anxiety. So it is, Hegel believed, with the categories of our thought, the systems of philosophers, and the forms of life and society. There is no tranquillity to be had by withdrawal and isolation. Our categories compete with one another, and out of their competition emerges something better than either of them could have accomplished alone. But it is not possible for the superior category to go into retirement, for without the spur of competition it would fall into decay. Furthermore, just as competition requires the competitors to continue in business—for if one destroys the others, there is monopoly and stagnation—so the competing categories cannot be swallowed up and lost in the Absolute Idea but must all play their part in maintaining its life and stability. There is nothing fanciful in this comparison. Indeed, it gains support from Hegel's "System der Sittlichkeit" of 1802 ("System of Morality"; in Schriften zur Politik und Rechtsphilosophie, edited by Georg Lasson, 2nd ed., Leipzig, 1923), in which it is quite clear that Hegel's systematic thinking was influenced by his understanding of economic theory. For example, in this essay he developed the triad need–labor–enjoyment and described labor as "the destruction of the object … but in such a way that another is put in its place." Here Hegel compared labor with knowledge and undoubtedly had in mind (in accord with his tendency to take German words in the sense of their roots) the element of negation (nicht ) in the word for destruction (Vernichtung ). The destruction of the natural object is the creation of an artificial one. negation Negation, indeed, is the vital notion in Hegel's account of the dialectic. In the Preface to the Phenomenology Hegel wrote, "The life of God and divine knowledge may, if we wish, be described as love disporting with itself; but this idea is degraded into mere edification and insipidity if it lacks the seriousness, the pain, the patience and the labour of the negative." "Seriousness," "pain," "patience," and "labor" would be strange words to use of the negative symbol of formal logic. Expressed in theological-economic terms Hegel's view is that God cannot be a mere consumer, for there is no consumption without labor, and labor has to face a recalcitrant nature that has to be understood and humored. Thus, there is no God apart from nature. In moral terms there is no good without evil, and in logical terms there is no truth without error. These, according to Hegel, are central truths of dialectics. But surely, it will be said, this conflicts with such obvious facts as that there are some who consume without working, that in mathematics there are sequences of necessarily true propositions with no admixture of falsity, and that some things—for example, conscientious action—are good without qualification. As to the first point, Hegel argued in the Phenomenology that the master who consumes what his slave produces for him destroys what he consumes, whereas the slave shapes the external world in such a way that mind is embodied in it. Hence, the slave is on the road to freedom, whereas the master, who does not work, destroys without creating. As to mathematics, Hegel was inclined to hold it in contempt. There is no space here to consider the strange things he said about it, and it need only be remarked that he held that philosophical truth is utterly different from mathematical truth in that false philosophical views are taken up into true philosophy whereas false mathematics is not taken up into true mathematics. As to the alleged unmixed goodness of conscientious action (the Kantian "good will"), Hegel held that the morality of conscience contained in itself the seeds of willfulness and arbitrariness, for the most atrocious deeds can be defended on the ground that the man who committed them genuinely thought them right. Obedience to one's own conscience, Hegel thought, is an advance over obedience to the commands of an external lord but is nevertheless an unstable basis for morality. Several ways in which the negative element is important in Hegel's method have been discussed. There is the conceptual competition without which thought must decay. Then, there is the polar character of certain fundamental notions that makes the one unthinkable without its opposite. At the prephilosophical level Hegel gave above and below, right and left, father and son, as examples. At the philosophical level his examples, were good and bad, master and slave, thought and nature. But not only do these opposites require each other; they also pass into each other. Good will can pass over into atrocity; philosophical truth is the result of errors that supplement each other; the master satisfies his desires but becomes dependent upon the labor of the slave in order to do so; and the slave, by work, controls his desires and develops a rational will. The life of thought in conceptual conflict, the mutual dependence of polar opposites, and the instability or oscillations of philosophical and moral attitudes are different sorts of dialectic that Hegel emphasized on different occasions. If they have anything in common, it is the activity of negation. There are two other aspects of the dialectic to discuss, the role of reason and understanding and the role of skepticism. reason and understanding First, Hegel, following Kant, contrasted the reason, the source of dialectical thinking, with the understanding, the predialectical mode of thought. The understanding, as Hegel saw it, is the type of thinking that prevails in common sense, in the natural sciences, and in mathematics and those types of philosophy that are argued in quasi-scientific or quasi-mathematical ways. Fixed categories are uncritically adhered to, demonstrations are produced (only to be demolished), analyses are made, and distinctions are drawn. Analyzing and distinguishing are necessary foundations of philosophical activity but only to prepare the way for the more sinuous and subtle method of the dialectic. Once an analysis has been made, the elements of it are seen to conflict and collide as well as to cohere. First, the understanding isolates, then comes the Reason's negative moment of criticism or conflict, and after that its speculative moment of synthesis. It should be mentioned that distinctions somewhat similar to the distinction between the understanding and the reason had already been made by Plato when he distinguished between the highest knowledge and knowledge in the various sciences, by Spinoza in his second and third kinds of knowledge, by Blaise Pascal with his esprit de géometrie and esprit de finesse, by David Hume with his reason and imagination, and by Edmund Burke when he contrasted the abstract rationalism of the Enlightenment with the organic, evolutionary view of society that he preferred. These distinctions are not all quite like that drawn by Hegel, but in his theory there is something corresponding to each of them. skepticism Second, Hegel thought that skepticism was an important forerunner and essential ingredient of the dialectical method. In a review of a book by G. E. Schulze that appeared in 1802, Hegel wrote appreciatively of the skepticism of Sextus Empiricus and of the skeptical features in the philosophy of Parmenides, of whom he wrote, "This skepticism, which in its pure explicit form comes forward in Parmenides, is to be found implicit in every genuinely philosophical system, for it is the free aspect [die freie Seite ] of every philosophy" ("Verhältnis des Skeptizismus zur Philosophie," in Kritisches Journal der Philosophie 2 (1802): 1–74; quoted from Sämtliche Werke, edited by Georg Lasson, Vol. I, pp. 174–175). In the same essay Hegel wrote that when Spinoza held that God is the immanent but not the transcendent cause of the world, he was equating the cause with the effect, even though the very notion of an effect implies that it is distinct from the cause. Hegel agreed with Spinoza's equation but concluded that it shows that the reason can accept the principle of contradiction only as a formal principle. In "genuine" philosophy cause and effect are seen as both distinct and identical. Hegel illustrated his comment that skepticism is "the free aspect" of philosophy in the following way. Dogmatists, he said, regard individual men as objects in the power of rules, laws, and customs. The more the dogmatists study man, the more they show him in subjection to these forces. When, however, the skeptics attack dogmatism, "they raise the freedom of Reason above this necessity of nature." An example of this is the way in which Europeans came to question their own concepts of law and morals when they were brought face to face with cultures very different from their own. When such skeptics as Montaigne mockingly insisted on these differences, men became more conscious of their own institutions and recognized the possibility of changing them. In theoretically breaking down men's traditional views and institutions, the skeptic frees men from the unconscious power of these views and institutions. Hegel repeated his general assessment of skepticism in the Encyclopedia (Sec. 81, addition 2) and in his Lectures on the History of Philosophy. In these lectures Hegel said that skepticism is "the demonstration that all that is determinate and finite is unstable." Hegel went on to say that "positive philosophy," by which he meant philosophy that is not content to remain in total skepticism, "has the negative to Scepticism in itself; thus it does not oppose, nor is it outside of it, for Scepticism is a moment in it" (Haldane and Simpson, 1955, Vol. II, p. 330). Freedom From what has just been said, it is clear that Hegel's account of dialectic and of reason is closely linked with his view of freedom. The exercise of thought in its most developed forms involves the negation of what had seemed firm and certain and the opening up of new possibilities. That mind is freedom applies both to the understanding and the reason, since both are spontaneous activities that interpret and arrange. But because the understanding is confined to a fixed system of categories, it is less free than the reason that criticizes, stretches, and transforms the categories of the understanding. Freedom is, of course, logically connected with will, and according to Hegel, will is as essential to mind as intellect is. Reference has already been made to Section 482 of the Encyclopedia, in which Hegel asserted that the unity of theoretical and practical mind is free will. In the preceding sections he had argued that thought presupposes mind as practical, since classifying and explaining are activities through which the world is, so to speak, appropriated by the mind. In the sections of the Encyclopedia in which he expounded the categories of cognition and of will, Hegel endeavored to show that mere cognition is at a lower stage than will and that will is thus the actuality of what is only potential in knowledge. He also argued that the freedom and necessity that are opposed to each other are abstractions and that what is concrete must combine both. The very nature of necessity, he continued, presupposes a will on which it is a constraint. At the logical-metaphysical level, therefore, Hegel held a view that implied that freedom is essential to mind, both the presupposition and outcome of intelligence, and in its concrete form inseparable from constraint and necessity. This view of the matter pervaded his account of freedom in the social and political sphere. Freedom is not something merely opposed to constraint; on the contrary, it presupposes and requires restraint. This is true of concrete freedom. However, abstract or negative freedom, when it is more than a moment in actual or positive freedom, is a purely destructive force. Hegel considered that this negative freedom played a large part in the French Revolution. The old corporations and institutions were destroyed in such a frenzy of annihilation that it took several years for new institutions to be created and recognized as authoritative. Furthermore, when the conflicting interests in society are overcome, individuals come to be treated as equal, undifferentiated, replaceable, and expendable units. The events of the Reign of Terror thus led Hegel to hold that purely negative freedom was associated with force and death. The logical connections are not altogether clear, but it may well be that the links between egalitarianism, antinomianism, violence, and contempt for human life are not wholly accidental. Freedom, according to Hegel, is something that has to be achieved, and it therefore would be impossible in the absence of opposition and negation. Hence, although negative freedom in its abstract form is a "fury of destruction," it is a necessary element in concrete freedom. Free will is not the liberty of indifference but the rational organization of the feelings and impulses. Rationality is not a power that could reside in an isolated individual, however. To be rational, the individual must draw upon the resources of an organized and differentiated society and must be "formed" and educated to do this. His will is then in harmony with the ends of the various social groups by which he has been influenced and, in civilized societies, with the more complex ends of the state. In conforming to these pressures and in obeying the laws of the state, the individual is achieving his own rational ends and in so doing is free. Hegel, like Jean-Jacques Rousseau, also held that an individual might be free even when he was being coerced, for although he might dislike the force applied against him, this dislike would be an expression of his particular whims, not of his rational insight, as can be seen when he approves of the imposition of a like force upon other people in like circumstances. Insofar as the criminal who is being punished would wish others to be punished who committed a like crime against him, he wills his own punishment. freedom in history Hegel considered that the history of the human race is a development from less to greater freedom and from less adequate forms of freedom to freedom in its perfection. Thus, his philosophy of history can be understood only in terms of his conception of freedom. In the Oriental world there was no freedom for the subjects and only an arbitrary, irrational freedom for the despot who ruled over them. In the classical world of Greece and Rome there was a more adequate conception of freedom, and more men achieved freedom than in the Oriental despotisms. In the Greek city-state the citizens often regarded themselves as finding their fulfillment in the achievements of their city, apart from which they conceived of no life for themselves. Indeed, they might accept personal defeat and misfortune and submit to what they called destiny and still regard themselves as free in so doing. Of course, there were slaves who had no part in this activity and had no freedom. Christianity offered the prospect of freedom to all men, a freedom, furthermore, that transcended the given social order. In what Hegel called the Germanic world—that is, the Christian civilization that grew out of Protestantism—this latest form of freedom was being realized in the manifold institutions of Europe and America and in the states in which these institutions flourished and by which they were regulated and protected. In Christianity the individual is regarded as of infinite value, as a candidate for eternal salvation, and although the emphasis on subjective freedom can lead, as it did in the French Revolution, to contempt for social institutions, it comprises the form and aspect of freedom that gives its special quality to modern civilization, with its romantic art, romantic love, and support for the rights of conscience (Philosophy of Right, Sec. 124). It is apparent from the foregoing that Hegel rejected the liberal view that man is free to the extent that he is guaranteed a sphere within which he can do what he wishes without interference from others who are guaranteed a like position. Such freedom he stigmatized as negative, abstract, or merely willful. Men enjoy concrete freedom when the various orders and groups of civilized life are maintained in and by the state. In this passage of the Lectures on the Philosophy of History (Hoffmeister, Vol. XVIIIA, p.111) Hegel also emphasized that in submitting their private wills to the laws of the state and to the rules of its subordinate but free institutions, men were submitting their passions to the control of reason. Thus, the argument comes full circle. The theoretical reason is inseparable from will and from freedom; necessity and negative freedom are only abstractions; in concrete freedom the negative, destructive element is held in check and rendered fruitful by being realized in institutions; the individual enjoys concrete freedom when he is educated to live in a civilized state and to be guided by the reason that permeates it. There is no space here to criticize this view in any detail, for in a way it is a cross-section of the whole Hegelian metaphysic. It should be noted, however, that when a critic maintains that real freedom is what Hegel called negative or abstract freedom and when he goes on to maintain that "concrete freedom" is not freedom but indoctrinated submission, then he is criticizing Hegel's terminology rather than the substance of his view. To say that freedom consists of a willing acceptance of the tasks imposed by a civilized state is certainly to extend and perhaps to distort the ordinary senses of the term and to capture a word from the liberal vocabulary for use in a far from liberal scheme of concepts. It was Hegel's view, however, that the thoughts that the liberal phraseology expressed necessarily move in the directions he described and that societies themselves, the embodiments of men's thoughts and aims, move in these directions, too. Aesthetic Theory We have already seen that Hegel discussed the nature of art and of beauty toward the end of both the Phenomenology and the Encyclopedia. Art, according to Hegel, is one of the manifestations of Absolute Mind, of which religion and philosophy are the other two. Thus, although art presupposes the civilized life of the state, it also transcends it. In his lengthy Vorlesungen über die Aesthetik (Lectures on aesthetics) Hegel developed his theories of art and beauty in great detail. The lectures possess great power and attraction, and so much of their value resides in the details that a summary treatment is bound to be difficult. three styles of art Hegel's account of beauty is a modification of Friedrich Schiller's view, in his Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Mankind (1795), that beauty is the mediation between the sensible and the rational. According to Hegel, beauty is the rational rendered sensible, the sensible appearance being the form in which the rational content is made manifest. This sensible embodiment of the rational, he held, can take place in three principal ways: symbolic art, classical art, and romantic art. Symbolic art In the first and least adequate form, symbolic art, the sensible shape merely symbolizes the rational content without penetrating and transforming it. A lion may symbolize courage; a bird, the soul; or a temple, the presence of a god who nevertheless remains a mystery. Thus, in symbolic art the sensible object refers away from itself to a rationality that is enigmatically and mysteriously beyond it. In thus referring away from the sensible symbol to something vast and merely adumbrated, symbolic art sometimes achieves the sublime. Classical art In classical art, the second form of sensible embodiment, the sensible expression is adequate to the idea that it gives expression to and does not point vaguely beyond itself. This is typified in sculptures of the human body so formed that the divine ideal is realized in the stone, not merely hinted at. A temple makes us think of the god but is not the god. In a statue of Apollo the god is visible and tangible in the stone. Hegel pointed out that works of classical art have independence and completeness, so that when they have been created, it seems that there is nothing more left to do done. "Nothing more beautiful," he wrote, "can be or become." Romantic art Christianity, however, with its emphasis on the infinite value of the individual and upon subjective freedom, made classical art seem somewhat unsatisfactory. More is required than works of art in which reason, as Hegel put it, "stands in quiet and blessedness in bodily form." When the self and its inner life are regarded as of infinite value, the forms of art must move on from balance and harmony to the storm and turmoil of the subjective. According to Hegel, it is in romantic art that this progress to subjectivity and self-consciousness is achieved. Romantic art turns its back on the quiet and balanced beauty of the classical and "weaves the inner life of beauty into the contingency of the external form, and allows full scope to the emphatic features of the unbeautiful." In romantic art, as in symbolic art, there is much that is bizarre and even grotesque, but romantic art is on a higher level than symbolic art because the mind expressed in it is more complex and sophisticated. And in romantic art the mind has achieved a greater measure of freedom than in classical art because romantic art is less involved in and hampered by the sensible embodiment. products of art Hegel's view of the three main types of beauty is closely linked with his view of the main types of artistic product. Hegel divided the arts into architecture, sculpture, painting, music, and poetry. Works in any of these mediums may be produced in the symbolic, classical, or romantic styles, but, according to Hegel, architecture is particularly appropriate to symbolic art, sculpture to classical art, and painting, music, and poetry to romantic art. Architecture Architecture, Hegel held, is the basic art, the art that men first practice, for its material is mindless and its forms depend upon the weight and physical properties of this mindless medium. The architecture of early men, by bringing them together to worship the gods in temples, served to bring unity into their societies. Hegel imagined the men who built the first temples as they cleared the ground on which to build them, and he described this as "clearing the undergrowth of finitude." Sculpture In architecture a house is provided for the god, and the god is prepared for and expected. He is not, however, embodied or manifested in the stones of a mere building. In classical sculpture the god is embodied in the stone in such a way that all the parts of the statue combine in expressing and proclaiming him. Hence, it is not a mindless symbol of the mind beyond but a unified expression of it. Hegel contrasted the stiff regularity of Egyptian sculpture with the harmonious independence of the Greek, the acme of classical art. In Christian sculpture this Greek ideal does not predominate, and even when, as with Michelangelo, it is fully understood and mastered, it is associated with "the kind of inspiration that is found in romantic art." Painting, music, and poetry The three romantic arts of painting, music, and poetry differ from the arts of sculpture and architecture, according to Hegel, by being more "ideal." One thing he seems to have meant was that the productions of these arts are not three-dimensional like the productions of architecture and sculpture. Painting, of course, is two-dimensional, and Hegel thought it is more ideal than sculpture because it is further removed from the solid substance of material things. He appears to have argued that the painter transforms to an extent that the sculptor has no need to do. In reducing the three dimensions to two, space is somehow rendered more "inward" and "subjective," and the first step has been taken on the road to poetry. The next step toward subjectivity is taken by music, which abandons all the dimensions of space as well as the senses of sight and touch. Hearing, according to Hegel, is a "more subjective" sense than sight because it is less practical and more contemplative. In poetry the sensible elements of music, the notes or tones, are replaced by words that stand for thoughts. "The art of poetry," Hegel wrote, "is the universal art of mind that has become free and is no longer dependent upon external sensible material for its realization." Within poetry as a whole he distinguished epic, lyric, and dramatic poetry. Hegel's account of dramatic poetry is particularly interesting. "In tragedy," he wrote, "individuals destroy themselves through the onesidedness of their upright will and character, or they are forced to resign themselves and identify themselves with a course of action to which they are fundamentally opposed." In comedy, on the other hand, there is no such reconciliation; the characters pursue courses of action that have only subjective significance. Indeed, in comedy, according to Hegel, the subjectivity characteristic of romantic art is taken to such an extreme that all unity is dissolved; with it goes beauty, too. In comedy there is merely a series of subjective interests playing against one another, as opposed to the aim of all art, which is the revelation of the eternal and divine in sensible form. natural beauty The discussion has thus far been confined to the beauty of works of art (das Kunstschöne ). It is with this that by far the greater part of the "Lectures on Aesthetics" is concerned. In the second chapter, however, Hegel did say something about natural beauty (das Naturschöne ). He discussed the notions of regularity, symmetry, harmony, and conformity to law and also the beauty claimed for plants, animals, and human beings. He concluded his discussion of the subject with some comments on how natural beauty falls short of artistic beauty. Plants and animals, he granted, are more beautiful than inanimate natural objects, but what we see of them is their outward coverings, not the soul that works within, for that is concealed by the visible feathers, hair, scales, fur, and the like that cover them. Hegel referred to natural beauty as the "prose of the world." Although Hegel did not altogether deny the beauty of nature, it is clear that he ranked it very low. Indeed, the structure of his system made this inevitable, for it is the self-conscious achievements of man that form its culmination. It would seem that the triadic divisions of the "Lectures on Aesthetics" constrained and even corrupted Hegel's argument. An example of this occurs in his account of dramatic poetry, into which he introduced a species called "drama," the function of which was to add one species to tragedy and comedy and thus make three species of dramatic poetry. Hegel also tended to confuse conceptual and historical relationships. For example, the distinction between symbolic, classical, and romantic art was intended to be made on conceptual grounds, but, on the other hand, Hegel had in mind historical progression. Here, as elsewhere, Hegel confused historical types, such as romanticism, with conceptual types, such as tragedy, which have no necessary temporal sequence. Perhaps the most interesting case of this is Hegel's suggestion that art comes to an end with the highest flights of romanticism. We have already seen that Hegel brought his account of dramatic poetry to an end with comedy, the most subjective of all art forms. At the very end of the "Lectures on Aesthetics" he said that "in this culmination comedy is leading straight to the dissolution of art in general." It is unlikely that Hegel believed that art was coming to an end, any more than he believed that with the Prussian state, history was coming to an end. Yet in each case he argued in such a way as to suggest that the culmination of a conceptual sequence must also be the conclusion of a historical progress. Insofar as he held that history was the movement of the Divine in the world, it was natural to make this identification, extravagant as it is. Bosanquet, who denied that Hegel believed that art was on the point of final dissolution, held that he did foresee that it was about to suffer an eclipse in the new form of society. "But we must claim extraordinary insight for him, who, still under the spell of Schiller and Goethe, described the present exhaustion of the art-impulse and the conditions hostile to it in language approaching that of John Ruskin and William Morris" (A History of Aesthetic, 4th ed., London, 1917, p. 361). Philosophy of Religion A few commentators have regarded Hegel's philosophy as atheistic, but most have considered it to be either theistic or pantheistic. Certainly religious expressions abound in his writings, even in the Logic. It has been shown how closely he associated art with religion and how he applied religious epithets to the state. It was also pointed out that the Phenomenology might with some justification be interpreted in atheistic terms. It would be obviously overstraining the evidence, however, to interpret Hegel's mature system in this way, for in the system religion is a form of Absolute Mind, along with art and philosophy, which is the supreme expression of the Absolute Mind. According to Hegel, religion represents or pictures the Absolute, whereas philosophy conceives or thinks it. The same truth, that is, expressed in quasi-imaginative form in one and in conceptual form in the other. christianity Since the concept is supreme and ultimate, philosophy surpasses religion to this extent, but in doing this, it finally and fully justifies Christianity, which is the absolute religion. The doctrine that elevates Christianity above all other religions is the doctrine of the Incarnation, which, according to Hegel, is the religious expression of the philosophical truth that the Infinite Being is not distinct from what is finite but is necessarily manifested in it. Hegel also interpreted the doctrine of the Trinity in philosophical terms. In the "Science of Logic" God is revealed as he is before the creation of the world; in the "Philosophy of Nature," in his material embodiment; and in the "Philosophy of Mind," as reconciling the finite and the Infinite. In this way the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are explained in terms of the main themes of the Hegelian system. Again, Hegel interpreted the doctrine that God is love to mean that although the Infinite Being cannot exist without negation and opposition, the negation and opposition are finally reconciled. Finally, it should be mentioned that Hegel gave a series of lectures on the traditional proofs for the existence of God. He admitted the force of Kant's criticisms of these proofs but claimed to have reformulated the arguments so as to meet the criticisms. In particular, he held that the Ontological Argument, which Kant had regarded as vital but unsound, was valid when properly understood. Undoubtedly, Hegel's later writings are much closer to orthodox Christianity than his earlier ones. The early "Life of Jesus" had nothing to say about the Resurrection, whereas in the Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion this doctrine was stated and defended. Hegel here wrote of "the death of death," of "the triumph over the negative," of mind as "the negative of this negative which thus contains the negative in itself," and of "the division of the divine idea and its reunion" that is "the whole of history." Although Hegel said that God appeared in the flesh at a particular time and in a particular individual, his account of the matter seems to be extremely general. In the Christian doctrine of the Incarnation, God became man in Jesus Christ at a particular time and place, whereas Hegel's God is incorporated in the finite world. It would seem that a highly specific historical view is replaced by a highly general metaphysical one. Hegel himself did not take this view of his own work, nor did a younger contemporary of his, Karl Friedrich Göschel, in his Aphorismen über Nichtwissen und absolutes Wissen im Verhälnisse zur christlichen Glaubenserkenntnis (Berlin, 1829). In the Encyclopedia (Sec. 564) Hegel recommended this book, which is generally regarded as giving a theistic account of the Absolute. Just before referring to Göschel's book, Hegel had written, "God is only God in so far as he knows himself; his self-knowledge is moreover his consciousness of himself in man and man's knowledge of God, a knowledge that extends itself into the self-knowledge of man in God." What cannot be doubted is that Hegel's philosophy of religion contained elements that could easily be developed in ways that go counter to orthodox Christianity. Thus, when D. F. Strauss argued, in his Life of Jesus (1835), that the Gospel story was a set of myths, he was consciously working out what he thought was the consequence of Hegel's view that in religion the truth about God is understood in representative or pictorial terms. Again, Ludwig Feuerbach, in his The Essence of Christianity (1841), endeavored to interpret the Christian doctrines in human and psychological terms as the imaginary fulfillment of wishes that cannot be satisfied here on Earth. We have already referred to the passage in Hegel's The Positivity of the Christian Religion, in which he said that in the days of imperial Rome men who had been robbed of their freedom in this world sought for it in a heaven beyond. Feuerbach, who, of course, had not seen this work, could have read something similar in the Phenomenology. It is a very short step from Hegel's view that the infinite is manifested in the finite to the view that it is a projection of it. Perhaps the truth of the matter is that the Christian religion, according to Hegel, is adequate in its own sphere and that the philosophy of religion is required to counteract false religious views and false views about religion but is not a substitute for it. This is the interpretation given by Lasson in the introduction to Hegel's philosophy of religion printed at the end of his edition of Hegel's Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion. See also Dialectic; Philosophy of Mind. Bibliography works by hegel The edition of Hegel's collected works, Werke. Vollständige Ausgabe, published soon after his death has already been mentioned. This was republished in 26 volumes under the editorship of Hermann Glockner (Stuttgart, 1927–1940) as the jubilee edition. Volumes 23–26 of this edition are an invaluable Hegel-Lexikon (1st ed., 1935; rev. ed., 2 vols., 1957). Mention must be made of Georg Lasson's edition, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegels Sämtliche Werke (Leipzig, 1905–); this was to have been revised and reedited by Lasson and Johannes Hoffmeister, and some volumes were published (Hamburg, 1949–). As a result of the death of Lasson and of Hoffmeister, the plan was altered. The Sämtliche Werke, neue kritische Ausgabe, which Hoffmeister started to edit, will continue under the editorship of various scholars. This edition contains Hegel's letters in Briefe von und an Hegel, 4 vols. (1952–1960). The unpublished writings prior to 1800 will appear in this new critical edition under the editorship of Gisela Schüler. Another collection with still earlier documents is Dokumente zu Hegels Entwicklung, edited by Hoffmeister (Stuttgart: Fromanns, 1936). Some of Hegel's early writings were translated from Herman Nohl, ed., Hegels theologische Jugendschriften (Tübingen, 1907) by T. M. Knox as Early Theological Writings (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1948). There is a translation of the Phenomenology of Mind by J. B. Baillie (London, 1910; 2nd ed., 1931). William Wallace translated the encyclopedia "Logic," with excellent prolegomena in The Logic of Hegel (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1873); there are subsequent editions. He also translated the last part of the Encyclopedia (in Hegel's Philosophy of Mind, Oxford, 1894). See also The Science of Logic, translated by W. H. Johnston and L. G. Struthers, 2 vols. (London, 1929); The Philosophy of Right, translated and edited by T. M. Knox (Oxford, 1942), a very fine work of scholarship; The Philosophy of Fine Art, translated by F. P. B. Osmaston, 4 vols. (London, 1920); Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion, translated by E. B. Speirs and J. B. Sanderson, 3 vols. (London, 1895); and Lectures on the History of Philosophy, translated by E. S. Haldane and F. H. Simsen, 3 vols. (London 1892–1896; reprint, 1955). J. Sibree's translation of the Lectures on the Philosophy of History (London, 1857) has been reprinted several times. See also Hegel's Political Writings, translated by T. M. Knox with an introductory essay by Z. A. Pelczynski (Oxford, 1964). There is a translation of the Encyclopedia with notes by Gustav E. Mueller (New York, 1959). There are two useful books of selections, Hegel: Selections, edited by Jacob Loewenberg (London and New York, 1929), and The Philosophy of Hegel, edited by C. J. Friedrich (New York: Modern Library, 1953). works on hegel The System Caird, Edward. Hegel. London and Edinburgh, 1883. Copleston, Frederick. A History of Philosophy, Vol. VII: From Fichte to Nietzsche. London, 1963. Chs. 9–11. Croce, Benedetto. Ciò che è vivo e ciò che è morto della filosofia di Hegel. Bari, Italy, 1907. Translated by Douglas Ainslie as What Is Living and What Is Dead in the Philosophy of Hegel. London: Macmillan, 1915. Findlay, J. N. Hegel: A Re-examination. London: Allen and Unwin, 1958. Emphasizes the Logic and interprets Hegel in somewhat nonmetaphysical terms. Glockner, Hermann. Hegel, 2 vols. Stuttgart, 1929. These are Vols. XXI–XXII of the jubilee edition of Hegel mentioned above. Grégoire, Franz. Études hégéliennes. Louvain, Belgium, and Paris, 1958. Contains detailed and fruitful discussions of the central issues. Haering, T. L. Hegel: Sein Wollen und Sein Werk, 2 vols. Leipzig, 1929. A leading authority. Hartmann, Nicolai. Die Philosophie des deutschen Idealismus, Vol. II: Hegel. Berlin and Leipzig, 1929. Kaufmann, Walter. Hegel: Reinterpretation, Texts and Commentaries. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1965. Kline, George L. "Some Recent Re-interpretations of Hegel's Philosophy." Monist 48 (1964): 34–73. McTaggart, J. M. E. Studies in Hegelian Cosmology. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 1901. Stimulating and idiosyncratic. Mure, G. R. G. An Introduction to Hegel. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1940. Emphasizes Hegel's debt to Greek philosophy, Aristotle in particular. Pringle-Pattison, A. S. Hegelianism and Personality, 2nd ed. London and Edinburgh: Blackwood, 1887. The first edition was published under the name Andrew Seth. See the article "The Absolute." Seeberger, Wilhelm. Hegel: Oder die Entwicklung des Geistes zur Freiheit. Stuttgart, 1961. A new statement of the "orthodox" interpretation. Serreau, René. Hegel et l'hégélianism. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 1962. Brief but informative book with good introductory account of the various Hegelian schools. Stace, W. T. The Philosophy of Hegel. London: Macmillan, 1924; New York: Dover, 1955. A detailed account based on the Encyclopedia. Early Writings Asveld, P. La pensée religieuse du jeune Hegel. Louvain, Belgium, 1953. Dilthey, Wilhelm. Die Jugendgeschichte Hegels. Berlin, 1906. It is included as Vol. IV of Dilthey's Gesammelte Schriften (Berlin and Leipzig, 1921). Hyppolite, Jean. Introduction à la philosophie de l'histoire de Hegel. Paris, 1948. A valuable account of Hegel's early views on history and politics. Kaufmann, Walter. "The Young Hegel and Religion." In his From Shakespeare to Existentialism. Boston: Beacon Press, 1959. Ch. 8. Lukács, Georg. Der junge Hegel. Berlin, 1948. An interesting Marxist interpretation. Peperzak, A. T. P. Le jeune Hegel et la vision morale du monde. The Hague, 1960. Walsh, W. H. "The Origins of Hegelianism." In his Metaphysics. London: Hutchinson, 1963. Ch. 9. "Phenomenology of Mind" Hyppolite, Jean. Genèse et structure de la Phénomenologie de l'Esprit de Hegel. Paris, 1946. Kojève, Alexandre. Introduction à la lecture de Hegel. Paris, 1947. Gives the "atheistic" interpretation. Loewenberg, Jacob. "The Comedy of Immediacy in Hegel's Phenomenology. II." Mind, n.s. 44 (1935): 21ff. Loewenberg, Jacob. "The Exoteric Approach to Hegel's Phenomenology. I." Mind, n.s. 43 (1934): 424ff. Wahl, Jean. Le malheur de la conscience dans la philosophie de Hegel. Paris, 1929; 2nd ed., 1951. "Logic" Hyppolite, Jean. Logique et existence. Paris, 1953. McTaggart, J. M. E. Commentary on Hegel's Logic. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 1910. Mure, G. R. G. A Study of Hegel's Logic. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1950. Dialectic Coreth, E. Das dialektische Sein in Hegels Logik. Vienna, 1952. Grégoire, Franz. Études hégéliennes. Louvain, Belgium, and Paris, 1958. See Study II. McTaggart, J. M. E. Studies in the Hegelian Dialectic. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 1896; 2nd ed., 1922. Mueller, Gustav E. "The Hegel Legend of Thesis, Antithesis and Synthesis." Journal of the History of Ideas 19 (1958): 411–414. Popper, Karl. "What Is Dialectic?" Mind, n.s. 49 (1940): 403–426. Revised and reprinted in his Conjectures and Refutations (London: Routledge, 1963), Ch. 15. Social and Political Philosophy Foster, M. B. The Political Philosophies of Plato and Hegel. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1935. An original and valuable discussion. Grégoire, Franz. Études hégéliennes. Louvain, Belgium, and Paris, 1958. See Study IV. Haym, Rudolf. Hegel und seine Zeit. Berlin, 1857; reprinted, Hildesheim, 1962. Kaufmann, Walter. "The Hegel Myth and Its Methods." In his From Shakespeare to Existentialism. Boston: Beacon Press, 1959. Ch. 7 is a criticism of Ch. 12 of Popper's The Open Society and Its Enemies. Knox, T. M. "Hegel and Prussianism." Philosophy 15 (1940): 51–63. Plamenatz, John. Man and Society, 2 vols. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1963. Vol. II, Chs. 3–4, "The Social and Political Philosophy of Hegel." Popper, Karl. The Open Society and Its Enemies, 2 vols. London: Routledge, 1945. See Vol. II, Ch. 12. Rosenzweig, Franz. Hegel und der Staat, 2 vols. Oldenburg, Germany, 1920. Weil, Eric. Hegel et l'état. Paris, 1950. Aesthetics Bosanquet, B. History of Aesthetic. London: Sonnenschein, 1892. Chs. 2, 12. Teyssèdre, B. L'esthétique de Hegel. Paris, 1958. Philosophy of Religion Chapelle, A. Hegel et la religion, Vol. I: La problématique. Paris, 1964–. The first of four projected volumes on the subject. Grégoire, Franz. Études hégéliennes. Louvain, Belgium, and Paris, 1958. Study III. Iljin, I. Die Philosophie Hegels als kontemplative Gotteslehre. Bern, 1946. McTaggart, J. M. E. Studies in Hegelian Cosmology. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 1901. Especially Chs. 2, 3, 6 ("Sin"), and 8 ("Hegelianism and Christianity"). Mueller, Gustav E. "Hegel's Absolute and the Crisis of Christianity." In A Hegel Symposium, edited by D. C. Travis. Austin: University of Texas, 1962. For further discussion see Hegel-Studien, Vol. 1 (Bonn, 1961), Vol. 2 (Bonn, 1963), and Supp. Vol. 1 (Bonn, 1964). This is edited by F. Nicolin and O. Pöggeler and contains articles, reviews, and bibliography. See also Études hégéliennes (Neuchâtel, 1955), containing articles by Alexandre Kojève, Georges Bataille, R. Queneau, Jean Wahl, and Eric Weil, and A Hegel Symposium (Austin: University of Texas, 1962), with articles by C. J. Friedrich, Sidney Hook, Helmut Motekat, Gustav E. Mueller, and Helmut Rehder. Beiser, Frederick C., ed. The Cambridge Companion to Hegel. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1993. Berthold-Bond, D. Hegel's Grand Synthesis: A Study of Being, Thought and History. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 1989. Burbidge, J. W. Historical Dictionary of Hegelian Philosophy. Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press, 2001. Burns, Tony. Natural Law and Political Ideology in the Philosophy of Hegel. Brookfield, VT: Avebury, 1996. Collins, Ardis B. Hegel on the Modern World. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 1995. Cullen, Bernard, ed. Hegel Today. Brookfield, VT: Avebury, 1988. Desmond, William, ed. Hegel and His Critics: Philosophy in the Aftermath of Hegel. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1989. Fox, Michael Allen. The Accessible Hegel. Amherst, NY: Humanity Books, 2005. Gascoigne, Robert. Religion, Rationality, and Community: Sacred and Secular in the Thought of Hegel and his Critics. Boston: M. Nijhoff, 1985. Harris, Henry Silton. Hegel's Ladder, Vol. 1 and 2. Indianapolis: Hackett, 1997. Henrich, Dieter, ed. Kant oder Hegel?: Uber Formen der Begrundung in der Philosophie. Stuttgarter Hegel-Kongress. Stuttgart: Klett-Cotta, 1983. Hösle, Vittorio. Hegel's System: Der Idealismus der Subjektivitat und das Problem der Intersubjektivitat Hegels. Hamburg: F. Meiner, 1987. Hospers, J. ed. "Hegel Today." Monist (1991) 74: 3. Hougate, Stephen, ed. Hegel and the Philosophy of Nature. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1998. Houlgate, Stephen. An Introduction to Hegel: Freedom, Truth, and History. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2005. Hutchings, Kimberly. Hegel and Feminist Philosophy. Malden, MA: Blackwell, 2003. Hyppolite, Jean. Introduction a la philosophie de l'histoire de Hegel [Introduction to Hegel's Philosophy of History]. Translated by Bond Harris and Jacqueline Bouchard Spurlock. Gainesville, FL: University Press of Florida, 1996. Inwood, Michael. Hegel. Boston: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1983. Inwood, Michael, ed. Hegel. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1985. Inwood, Michael. A Hegel Dictionary. Cambridge, MA: Blackwell, 1992. Kainz, Howard P. An Introduction to Hegel: The Stages of Modern Philosophy. Athens: Ohio University Press, 1996. Kainz, Howard P. G. W. F. Hegel: The Philosophical System. New York: Twayne, 1996. Kainz, Howard P. Hegel's Phenomenology, Part I: Analysis and Commentary. Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press, 1976. Kainz, Howard P. Hegel's Phenomenology, Part II: The Evolution of Ethical and Religious Consciousness to the Absolute Standpoint. Athens: Ohio University Press, 1983. Keenan, Denis King. Hegel and Contemporary Continental Philosophy. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2004. Knowles, Dudley. Routledge Philosophy Guidebook to Hegel and the Philosophy of Right. New York: Routledge, 2002. Lamb, David, ed. Hegel and Modern Philosophy. New York: Croom Helm, 1987. Lamb, David. Hegel—From Foundation to System. The Hague: M. Nijhoff, 1980. MacIntyre, Alasdair C. Hegel: A Collection of Critical Essays. Garden City, NY: Anchor Books, 1972. Maker, William. Hegel and Aesthetics. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2000. Maker, William. Philosophy without Foundations: Rethinking Hegel. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994. McCarney, Joe. Routledge Philosophy Guidebook to Hegel on History. New York: Routledge, 2000. Moran, Philip. Hegel and the Fundamental Problems of Philosophy. Amsterdam: B.R. Gruner, 1988. Mure, Geoffrey Reginald Gilchrist. The Philosophy of Hegel. Bristol, U.K.: Thoemmes Press, 1993. O'Malley, Joseph J., K. W. Algozin, and Frederick G. Weiss, eds. Hegel and the History of Philosophy: Proceedings of the 1972 Hegel Society of America Conference. The Hague: Martinus Nijhoff, 1974. O'Malley, Joseph J., et al, eds. The Legacy of Hegel: Proceedings of the Marquette Hegel Symposium 1970. The Hague: Martinus Nijhoff, 1973. Ormiston, Alice. Love and Politics: Re-interpreting Hegel. Albany: State University of New York Press, 2004. Petry, Michael John, ed. Hegel and Newtonianism. Boston: Kluver Academic Publishers, 1993. Pinkard, Terry P. Hegel's Dialectic: The Explanation of Possibility. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1988. Pippin, Robert B. Hegel's Idealism: The Satisfactions of Self-Consciousness. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Pippin, Robert B., and Otfried Hoffe, eds. Hegel on Ethics and Politics. Translated by Nicholas Walker. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2004. Plant, Raymond. Hegel. New York: Routledge, 1999. Plant, Raymond. Hegel: On Religion and Philosophy. London: Phoenix, 1997. Reyburn, Hugh A. The Ethical Theory of Hegel: A Study of the Philosophy of Right. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1967. Rockmore, Tom. Before and After Hegel: A Historical Introduction to Hegel's Thought. Indianapolis: Hackett, 2003. Rockmore, Tom. Hegel, Idealism, and Analytic Philosophy. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2005. Rockmore, Tom. Hegel's Circular Epistemology. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1986. Rosen, Stanley. G. W. F. Hegel: An Introduction to the Science of Wisdom. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1974. Sedgwick, Sally. The Reception of Kant's Critical Philosophy: Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2000. Singer, Peter. Hegel. New York: Oxford University Press, 1983. Soll, Ivan. An Introduction to Hegel's Metaphysics. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1969. Solomon, Robert C. From Hegel to Existentialism. New York: Oxford University Press, 1987. Speight, Allen. Hegel, Literature, and the Problem of Agency. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2001. Steinkraus, Warren E., and Kenneth I. Schmitz, eds. Art and Logic in Hegel's Philosophy. Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press, 1980. Stepelevich, Lawrence S., ed. Selected Essays on G.W.F. Hegel. Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press, 1993. Stern, Robert. "G. W. F. Hegel" In An Introduction to Modern European Philosophy. 2nd ed. Edited by Jenny Teichman and Graham White. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1995. Stern, Robert, ed. G. W. F. Hegel: Critical Assessments. 4 vols. New York: Routledge, 1993. Stern, Robert. Hegel, Kant and the Structure of the Object. London: Routledge, 1990. Stern, Robert. Routledge Philosophy Guidebook to Hegel and the Phenomenology of Spirit. New York: Routledge, 2002. Stewart, Jon, ed. The Hegel Myths and Legends. Evanston, IL: Northwestern University Press, 1996. Stewart, Jon. ed. The Phenomenology of Spirit Reader. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1998. Taylor, Charles. Hegel. 5th ed. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1987. Taylor, Charles. Hegel and Modern Society. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1979. Tristram, Engelhardt, Jr., and Terry Pinkard, eds. Hegel Reconsidered: Beyond Metaphysics and the Authoritian State. Boston: Kluwer Academic, 1994. Tubbs, Nigel. Contradiction of Enlightenment: Hegel and the Broken Middle. Brookfield, VT: Ashgate, 1997. Walker, John, ed. Thought and Faith in the Philosophy of Hegel. Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991. Weiss, Frederick Gustav, ed. Beyond Epistemology: New Studies in the Philosophy of Hegel. The Hague: Nijhoff, 1974. Williams, Robert R. Recognition: Fichte and Hegel on the Other. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1992. Wylleman, Luevan. Hegel on the Ethical life, Religion, and Philosophy, 1793–1807. Edited by A. Wylleman. Norwell: Kluwer Academic, 1989. H. B. Action (1967) Bibliography updated by Tamra Frei (2005)


--- [Hegel's Classification of Romantic Arts | PDF | Georg Wilhelm ...] ---
Hegel's Classification of Romantic Arts This document provides a summary of Hegel's analysis of different artistic styles and his system for classifying the arts. It outlines three styles - simple/severe, ideal/beautiful, and graceful. It then describes Hegel's system which ranks the arts based on their ability to express the ideal, with architecture expressing it the least vaguely and poetry expressing it the most universally. The five arts that make up Hegel's complete system are architecture, sculpture, painting, music, and poetry. Hegel's Classification of Romantic Arts


--- [Lectures on Fine Art by Hegel - Marxists Internet Archive] ---
Hegel’s Aesthetics Source: G.W.F. Hegel (edited by Hotho) “Aesthetics: Lectures on Fine Art,” Vol. 1 Translated: by T. M. Knox, 1973. See also Lectures on Aesthetics 2 Limitation and Defence of Aesthetics 4 Scientific Ways of Treating Beauty and Art 5 Concept of the Beauty of Art (i) The Work of Art as a Product of Human Activity (ii) The Work of Art, as being for Apprehension by Man’s Senses, is drawn from the Sensuous Sphere (iii) The Aim of Art 7 Historical Deduction of the True Concept of Art (i) The Kantian Philosophy (ii) Schiller, Winckelmann, Schelling (iii) Irony (i) The Idea of the Beauty of Art or the Ideal (ii) Development of the Ideal into the Particular Forms of the Beauty of Art (iii) The System of the Individual Arts Position of Art in Relation to the Finite World and to Religion and Philosophy 1. The Idea 1. The Idea as Life 2. Life in Nature as Beautiful 3. Ways of Considering Life in Nature B. The External Beauty of the Abstract Form and the Abstract Unity of the Sensuous Material (a) Regularity and Symmetry (b) Conformity to Law (c) Harmony 2. Beauty as Abstract Unity of the Sensuous Material C. Deficiency of Natural Beauty 1. The Inner in Immediacy as only the Inner 2. The Dependence of Immediate Individual Existence 3. The Restrictedness of Immediate Individual Existence 1. Beautiful Individuality 2. The Relation of the Ideal to Nature B. The Determinacy of the Ideal 1. The Divine as Unity and Universality 2. The Divine as a Group of Gods 3. Repose of the Ideal II. Action 1. The General State of the World (a) Individual Independence – The Heroic Age (b) Prosaic States of Affairs in the Present (c) The Reconstitution of Individual Independence (a) Absence of Situation (b) The Specific Situation in its Harmlessness (c) Collision 3. Action (a) The Universal Powers over Action (b) The Individual Agents (c) Character III. The External Determinacy of the Ideal 1. Abstract Externality as such 2. Correspondence of the Concrete Ideal with its External Reality 3. The Externality of the Ideal Work of Art in relation to the Public C. The Artist 1. Imagination (Phantasie), Genius, and Inspiration 2. Objectivity of the Representation 3. Manner, Style, and Originality Section I. The Symbolic Form of Art Introduction – The Symbol in general A. Immediate Unity of Meaning and Shape 2. The Non-symbolic Character of Zoroastrianism 3. Non-artistic Interpretation and Presentation of Zoroastrianism 1. The Indian Conception of Brahma 2. Sensuousness, Boundlessness, and the Activity of Personifying 3. View of Purification and Penance 1. Egyptian View and Representation of the Dead: Pyramids 2. Animal Worship and Animal Masks 3. Complete Symbolism – Memnons, Isis and Osiris, the Sphinx 1. God as Creator and Lord of the World 2. The Finite World bereft of God A. Comparisons Originating from the External Object 1. Fable (a) Parable (b) Proverbs (c) Apologue or Moral Fable B. Comparisons which start from the Meaning 1. Riddle 2. Allegory (a) Metaphor (b) Image (c) Simile C. Disappearance of the Symbolic Form of Art 1. Independence of the Classical as Interpenetration of Spirit and its Shape in Nature 2. Greek Art as the Actual Existence of the Classical Ideal 3. Position of the Productive Artist in Classical Art 1. The Degradation of the Animal (a) Animal Sacrifices (b) Hunts (c) Metamorphoses 2. The Battle between the Old Gods and the New (a) Oracles (b) The Old Gods in Distinction from the New (c) The Conquest of the Old Gods 3. Affirmative Retention of the Negatived Features (a) The Mysteries (b) Preservation of the Old Gods in Artistic Representation (c) Natural Basis of the New Gods 1. The Ideal of Classical Art in General (a) The Ideal as Originated by Free Artistic Creation (b) The New Gods of the Classical Ideal (c) The Sort of External Representation 2. The Group of Particular Gods (a) Plurality of Individual Gods (b) Lack of a Systematic Arrangement (c) Fundamental Character of the Group of the Gods 3. The Individuality of the Gods seriatim (a) Material for Individualization (b) Preservation of the Moral Basis (c) Advance to Grace and Attractiveness 1. Fate 2. Dissolution of the Gods through their Anthropomorphism (a) Deficiency in Inner Subjectivity (b) The Transition to Christianity is only a Topic of Modern Art (c) Dissolution of Classical Art in its own Sphere (a) Difference between the Dissolution of Classical Art and that of Symbolic Art (b) Satire (c) The Roman World as the Soil where Satire Flourishes 1. The Principle of Inner Subjectivity 2. The More Detailed Features of the Content and Form of the Romantic 3. Relation of the Subject-matter to the Mode of Representation 1. The Redemptive History of Christ (a) Apparent Superfluity of Art (b) Necessary Emergence of Art (c) The Details of the External Appearance are Accidental (a) Concept of the Absolute as Love (b) The Heart or Soul (c) Love as the Romantic Ideal 3. The Spirit of the Community (a) Martyrs (b) Repentance and Conversion (c) Miracles and Legends 1. Honour (a) The Concept of Honour (b) Vulnerability of Honour (c) Reconstitution of Honour 2. Love (a) Concept of Love (b) Love’s Collisions (c) Love’s Contingency 3. Fidelity (a) Fidelity in Service (b) Fidelity’s Subjective Independence (c) Fidelity’s Collisions 1. The Independence of the Individual Character (a) Formal Firmness of Character (b) Character as Inner but Undeveloped Totality (c) What the Substantial Interest is in the Presentation of Formal Character 2. Adventures (a) The Contingency of Aims and Collisions (b) The Comic Treatment of Contingency (c) Romantic Fiction 3. Dissolution of the Romantic Form of Art (a) The Subjective Artistic Imitation of the Existent Present (b) Subjective Humour (c) The End of the Romantic Form of Art 1. Architectural Works built for National Unification 2. Architectural Works wavering between Architecture and Sculpture (a) Phallic columns (b) Obelisks etc. (c) Egyptian Temples 3. Transition from Independent to Classical Architecture (a) Indian and Egyptian Subterranean Buildings (b) Housing for the Dead, Pyramids, etc. (c) Transition to Architecture in the Service of Some Purpose 1. General Character of Classical Architecture (a) Subservience to a Specific End (b) The Building’s Fitness for its Purpose (c) The House as the Fundamental Type 2. The Particular Determinants of the Architectural Forms (a) Building in Wood and Stone (b) The Specific Forms of the Temple (c) The Classical Temple as a Whole 3. The Different Styles in Classical Architecture (a) Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian Orders (b) The Roman Construction of Arch and Vault (c) General Character of Roman Architecture 1. General Character of Romantic Architecture 2. Particular Architectural Formations (a) The Fully Enclosed House as the Fundamental Form (b) The Form of the Exterior and the Interior (c) Mode of Decorating 3. Different Styles in Romantic Architecture (a) Romanesque (pre-Gothic) Architecture (b) Gothic Architecture Proper (c) Secular Architecture in the Middle Ages 1. The Essential Content of Sculpture 2. The Beautiful Sculptural Form (a) Exclusion of Particulars (b) Exclusion of Mien (c) Substantive Individuality 3. Sculpture as the Art of the Classical Ideal 1. General Character of the Ideal Sculptural Form 2. Particular Aspects of the Ideal Form in Sculpture (a) The Greek Profile (b) Position and Movement of the Body (c) Draping or Clothing 3. Individuality of the Ideal Sculptured Figures (a) Attributes, Weapons, Adornment (b) Differences of Age and Sex, and of Gods, Heroes, Men, and Animals (c) Portrayal of the Individual Gods (a) The Single Statue (b) Groups (c) v\Reliefs (a) Wood (b) Ivory, Gold, Bronze, and Marble (c) Predous Stones and Glass 3. Historical Stages in the Development of Sculpture (a) Egyptian Sculpture (b) Greek and Roman Sculpture (c) Christian Sculpture 1. General Character of Painting (a) The Chief Determinant of the Subject-matter (b) The Sensuous Material of Painting (c) Principle of the Artistic Treatment 2. Particular Characteristics of Painting (a) The Romantic Subject-matter (b) More detailed Characterization of the Sensuous Material of Painting (c) The Artist’s Conception, Composition, and Characterization 3. Historical Development of Painting (a) Byzantine Painting (b) Italian Painting (c) Flemish and German Painting Introduction and Division of the Subject (a) Comparison with the Visual Arts and Poetry (b) Musical Treatment of the Subject-matter (c) Effect of Music 2. Particular Characteristics of Music’s Means of Expression (a) Time, Bar, Rhythm (b) Harmony (e) Melody 3. Relation between Music’s Means of Expression and their Content (a) Music as an Accompaniment (b) Independent Music (c) The Execution of Musical Works of Art A. The Poetic Work of Art as Distinguished from a Prose Work of Art 1. Poetic and Prosaic Treatment 2. The Poetic and the Prose Work of Art 3. The Poet’s Creative Activity 1. The Poetic Way of Imagining Things8 (a) Rhythmic Versification (b) Rhyme (c) Unification of Rhythmical Versification and Rhyme C. The Different Genres of Poetry Introduction and Division of the Subject A. Epic Poetry 2. Particular Characteristics of Epic Proper (a) The General World-Situation of Epic (b) The Individual Epic Action (c) The Epic as a fully Unified Whole 3. The Historical Development of Epic Poetry (a) The Oriental Epic (b) The Classical Epic of Greece and Rome (c) The Romantic Epic B. Lyric Poetry 2. Particular Aspects of Lyric Poetry (a) The Lyric Poet (b) The Lyrical Work of Art (c) The Kinds of Lyric Proper 3. Historical Development of Lyric 1. The Drama as a Poetical Work of Art (a) The Principle of Dramatic Poetry (b) The Dramatic Work of Art (c) Relation of the Dramatic Work of Art to the Public 2. The External Execution of a Dramatic Work of Art (a) Reading Dramas and Reciting them (b) The Actor’s Art (c) The Art of the Theatre more Independently of Poetry 3. The Genres of Dramatic Poetry and the Chief Features it has had in History (a) The Principle of Tragedy, Comedy, and Drama (b) Difference between Ancient and Modern Dramatic Poetry (c) The Concrete Development of Dramatic Poetry and its Genres
